-- AngloGold, Gold Fields Propose Higher Wages for Worst Paid
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-10-10T16:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/s-african-gold-mines-propose-wage-changes-after-union-talks-1-.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,  Gold Fields
Ltd. (GFI)  and Harmony Gold Mining Co.,  Africa ’s largest producers of
the metal, offered to raise the wages of their lowest-paid
workers to try to curb wildcat strikes.  Terms for entry-level workers and other job categories have
been reviewed,  South Africa ’s Chamber of Mines, an industry body
that represents the three Johannesburg-based companies in wage
talks, said in a statement yesterday. “It has recognized there
are certain anomalies that need to be addressed,” it said.  The chamber met labor groups including the  National Union
of Mineworkers  yesterday after the NUM called for the current
two-year wage accord to be renegotiated. Workers have bypassed
unions, calling directly on management for higher pay since
 Lonmin Plc (LON)  miners won increases of 11 percent to 22 percent
after an unauthorized strike. Inflation was 5 percent in August.  About 41 percent of South Africa’s gold output is idled,
including all of AngloGold’s mines. Two Gold Fields sites were
halted after workers walked out without heeding resolution
procedures set out by  labor laws , while miners have been absent
from Harmony’s Kusasalethu operation since at least Oct. 3.  Most of  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s platinum mines and its Kumba
unit’s Sishen iron-ore complex are also shut because of strikes.
 Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s Eland platinum mine and Samancor Ltd.’s chrome
operations have been disrupted as workers demand higher pay.  Pay Proposal  The chamber has proposed a new allowance for rockdrill
operators, it said, without elaborating. It’s also offering
better pay for locomotive, loader, winch and water-jet operators
and wage “adjustments” for other employees to “preserve the
integrity of the current job grading framework.”  The NUM is holding meetings to discuss the proposals with
workers today and expects an indication of their response by
tomorrow,  Lesiba Seshoka , a spokesman for the union, said by
phone. NUM General Secretary Frans Baleni met with Gold Fields
workers at the KDC West mine until late yesterday, he said.  AngloGold produced about 306,000 ounces in South Africa in
the first quarter. Gold Fields’ KDC West and Beatrix mines
produced about 212,200 ounces, while Kusasalethu yielded 39,256
ounces. The nation’s gold output was 1.35 million ounces in the
quarter, according to the Chamber of Mines. It was the fifth-
largest gold producing country in 2010, GFMS Ltd. data show.  Gold for immediate delivery declined by 0.2 percent to
$1,761.43 an ounce by 5:23 p.m. in London trading.  Legal Walkouts  AngloGold, Gold Fields and Harmony ended legal strikes in
August last year after  agreeing  to raise 2011 pay by 7.5 percent
to 10 percent, depending on job category, and by the same amount
this year. The chamber isn’t revising those increases, Elize Strydom, its chief negotiator, said today in an interview on
Johannesburg-based SAfm radio. When the wage agreements were
struck last year, there were outstanding issues earmarked for
later talks. These are the points now being discussed, she said.  The unions will take the proposals to their members and
respond to the chamber tomorrow, Strydom said today by phone.
Adopting these plans will depend on workers reporting for duty
by the close of business tomorrow, she said.  AngloGold and Gold Fields offered an additional 2 percent
raise and Harmony 1.5 percent in categories four through eight
this year, according to Strydom. Category three, the entry-
level, would be eliminated in the proposal, meaning the lowest-
paid workers would get a wage at the higher category.  The chamber supports a call by the Congress of South
African Trade Unions for a commission of inquiry into living and
working conditions in the country’s mining industry, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  