-- S.F. Mayor Says Tax Plan Would Create 10,000 Tech Jobs
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-10-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/s-f-mayor-says-tax-plan-would-create-10-000-tech-jobs.html
San Francisco  Mayor Edwin Lee said
his proposal to ease business taxes, if approved by voters,
would bring 10,000 technology jobs to the city in the next two
years.  The proposition on next month’s ballot would phase out the
payroll levy paid by companies and replace it with a tax on
sales. That would expand on a policy that has spurred technology
companies including Twitter Inc. to move to, or remain in,
California’s fourth-largest city, Lee said.  “When we engaged companies, they wanted additional
assurances that they can be here for the long term and that’s
why we have Proposition E, which is a permanent fix,” Lee, 60,
said today in an interview in the San Francisco office of
 Bloomberg News .  The city’s lawmakers last year approved a temporary, six-
year  payroll-tax  exclusion for companies that opened offices in
the Central Market and Tenderloin areas of San Francisco, long
plagued by crime and homelessness. Critics of the payroll tax
say it hinders hiring and punishes companies for growing.  “We focused a good portion of efforts on technology
because we knew that they wanted to create jobs and they just
wanted to get some incentives from the city to be able to do
so,” Lee said.  San Francisco is the only city in California with a payroll
tax. It’s levied at a rate of 1.5 percent against a company’s
taxable payroll.  The new tax, with rates ranging from 0.075 percent to 0.650
percent, would vary depending on the type of business and the
amount of gross receipts from its activity in the city, and
would be phased-in over five years starting in 2014, according
to the measure  language . Companies with sales of less than $1
million a year would be exempt.  Lee said he hasn’t had to actively recruit technology
companies to move to San Francisco because their employees want
to be in the city for its diversity and culture.  Lee last year became the first Chinese-American elected to
the city’s top office, after serving as interim mayor succeeding
Gavin Newsom, who stepped down to serve as  California ’s
lieutenant governor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  