-- S&P Says Banks’ Retrenchment in Eastern Europe Hitting Growth
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-10-10T12:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/s-p-says-banks-retrenchment-in-eastern-europe-hitting-growth.html
Western banks are withholding
“significant” funds from eastern Europe due to the euro area’s
economic troubles, weighing on growth prospects in countries
such as Hungary and Poland,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  The cash withdrawal is “visible,” and is “depressing”
consumer demand in some countries, S&P analysts told a
conference in Vienna today. New regulatory requirements mean
financial support for the banks’ units in the region in the case
of financial crisis can’t be taken for granted, they said.  “It’s clearly a concern that parent banks are visibly
withdrawing their financing,” said  Frank Gill , a sovereign
rating analyst. “We’ve seen a reduction in external funding
from the Hungarian financial system of 15 percent of gross
domestic product. That’s a really significant outflow.”  Western banks led by  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) 
own three quarters of banking assets in eastern Europe.
Investors have fretted that a retrenchment by western banks,
whose lending the  International Monetary Fund  says added 1.5
percentage points to economic growth annually until 2008, will
hijack the region’s recovery from recession.  New Rules  Regulations including the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision’s Basel III rules on capital and liquidity, as well
as newly-introduced funding curbs for Austrian banks, which are
among the biggest in the region, are prompting the capital
outflows, S&P said. The increased cost to banks of raising
capital also means the lenders are drawing on the deposits they
hold at the units, according to the ratings company.  Many banks with units in eastern Europe have capital
adequacy ratios of less than 7 percent, which S&P sees as a
minimum level for sufficient financial strength, S&P banking
analyst Markus Schmaus said at the same briefing. The ratio
shows bank’s capital as a percentage of loans awarded.  UniCredit, Erste, Raiffeisen,  Societe Generale  and  KBC
Groep NV (KBC)  all have capital below the 7 percent threshold, Schmaus
said. Raiffeisen has the lowest ratio at 3.9 percent, he said.  Western banks “own highly systemically important banks in
eastern Europe,” Schmaus said. “But obviously the support is
limited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  