-- SABMiller Sees Commodity Costs Restricting Africa Margin Growth
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-10-10T12:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/sabmiller-sees-commodity-costs-restricting-africa-margin-growth.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
biggest brewer, said the cost of expansion and higher commodity
prices will restrict margin growth in Africa.  Earnings before interest, taxes and amortization as a
percentage of sales will increase by 0.5 to 0.8 percentage point
in the “medium term,” regional managing director Mark Bowman
said today at a conference in  London . The brewer predicted last
year that profitability on that basis would rise 0.8 to 1
percentage point a year over the next three to four years.  SABMiller, based in London, will maintain investment in the
region at an average of about $300 million to $500 million per
year, building more breweries and bottling facilities amid
growing demand, Bowman said. The brewer didn’t anticipate
“relatively high input costs” in  Africa  this year, he said, as
prices for products including malting barley increase.  “On balance we do expect over the next two to three years
to improve our margins,” Bowman said, citing actions to
increase the efficiency of distribution at SABMiller, which
sells beers including Castle and Impala in the region.  Brewers are seeking to build or buy breweries across Africa
as the region’s consumers become more prosperous. SABMiller,
which said today it has capacity shortages in Zambia and  Uganda ,
anticipates volume growth in “high single-digits” each year.  “We’re now putting in quite a lot of capacity in some
markets,” Bowman said. The brewer may build three to four new
breweries in the next few years, as well as expand capacity at
existing breweries, he said.  Castel Venture  SABMiller reorganized its African joint venture with Groupe
Castel in January, taking management control of operations in
 Nigeria  and agreeing to a “more precise methodology” for the
rights to each company’s beverage operations. The relationship
with Castel “was very strong and has got stronger,” Bowman
said. SABMiller swapped a 38 percent stake in the African unit,
which excludes  South Africa , for 20 percent of Castel in 2001.  Brewers are looking to  emerging markets  to drive sales as
growth stagnates in  Europe . SABMiller’s first-quarter lager
sales in Africa grew 9 percent, excluding the effects of
acquisitions and disposals, making it the brewer’s fastest-
growing region, the company said July 26. It represented 11
percent of SABMiller’s sales and revenue last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  