-- Saffold, Former JPMorgan Banker and Chicago CFO, Dies
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-10-10T19:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/saffold-former-jpmorgan-banker-and-chicago-cfo-dies.html
Gene Saffold, a former  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  managing director who served as  Chicago ’s chief
financial officer and a top adviser to former Mayor  Richard M. Daley , has died. He was 57.  He died Oct. 8, following heart surgery, the Alexandria,
Virginia-based Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board said today
in a statement. Saffold was named a public member in August.  Saffold pioneered a role for blacks as leaders of public-
finance investment banks, serving as a mentor to junior
colleagues. He helped spearhead a Chicago schools financial
restructuring and the raising of more than $3 billion of capital
when he was a trustee in the 1990s, said  Gery Chico , a lawyer at
Chico & Nunes PC and a former top Daley aide who introduced
Saffold to the Democratic mayor.  “In the 1990s, he was one of the leaders of the financial
renaissance of the Chicago schools,” Chico said by telephone.  Saffold showed a “lifetime commitment to philanthropy and
civic engagement,” Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , a Democrat, said in a
statement, citing the banker’s ties to city youth centers.  “Gene always understood that no matter our success as
private citizens, everything we do is ultimately measured by
what we do to advance the public good,” Emanuel said. “Gene
showed a steadfast commitment to the city he loved.”  ‘Invaluable Resource’  Saffold was a “wonderful human being” and “invaluable
resource,” Daley, now of counsel at the Chicago-based law firm
Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP, said in a statement.  “He was always innovative and forthright in his
decisions,” Daley said. “He was a great adviser to me but more
than that, a marvelous ally and friend who will be deeply
missed.”  Saffold was born and grew up on Chicago’s South Side,
according to the Bond Buyer. It said his mother died when he
was young. His father worked as a regional manager for brewer
Anheuser-Busch.  After graduating from Carleton College in Northfield,
 Minnesota , and obtaining a master of business administration
from the University of Chicago, Saffold began a public-finance
career by joining  Salomon Smith Barney  in the mid-1980s.  Saffold “wanted to start at the bottom,” said Adela Cepeda, president of A.C. Advisory Inc. in Chicago. She helped
him find that job and had remained a friend as he progressed
through his career. The skills necessary to be an investment
banker came naturally to him, she said.  ‘Brilliant’ Financier  “He had a brilliant financial mind; he could dig into the
most complex issue and get to the core of what was really
important,” Cepeda said. “And he had excellent pricing
instincts.”  From 1991 to 1994, Saffold co-founded and helped run an
advisory firm, LS Financial Group Inc. in Chicago. After
returning to Salomon, he left the broker again in 2002 to become
national head of public finance at Bank One Corp., which was
acquired by JPMorgan. The New York-based institution has since
become the largest U.S. lender, with $2.3 trillion in assets.  Saffold was a co-head of municipal  investment banking  in
 New York  starting in 2004, according to his page on the  Linked
In  website.  With an “interpersonal ability to bring out the best in
people,” Capeda said, Saffold mentored many public-finance
investment bankers.  A Mentor  “Gene’s contribution to the public-finance industry
extends beyond his distinguished career,” said Gary Hall, an
 executive director  in JPMorgan’s public finance group who said
in a prepared statement that he considered Saffold a mentor and
friend. He said Saffold recruited him from corporate finance.  “He was also dedicated to contributing to the professional
and personal development of so many in our industry,” Hall
said.  Saffold returned to Chicago in August 2008 as managing
director for national accounts for JPMorgan before becoming the
city’s finance chief in March 2009.  The decision to leave a lucrative banking job to join the
Daley administration resulted from an interest in seeing the
business from all sides and in helping his city cope with
pressures stemming from the financial crisis, Cepeda said.  “He believed in what he did,” she said. “He felt it was
important to help the city at a critical time.”  Housing Trust  Since leaving  City Hall  in May 2011, when Daley ended 22
years as mayor, Saffold has worked as an independent consultant.
He was also a board member of the Chicago Low-Income Housing
Trust Fund, according to the muni rulemaking organization, which
governs the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market, when he was
named to its board in an Aug. 1 announcement.  “We are saddened by the loss of a friend and professional
committed to the municipal market,” Jay Goldstone, the MSRB’s
chairman and  San Diego ’s chief operating officer, said in a
statement. “Gene forged a distinguished career in public
finance.”  Saffold, who was divorced, is survived by three children:
Christine, Jessica and Nathan, according to Cepeda. A memorial
service is set for tomorrow at Rockefeller Memorial Chapel on
the  University of Chicago  campus in Hyde Park.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  