-- Scene Last Night: Julian Robertson, Morimoto, Colicchio
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-10-10T14:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/scene-last-night-julian-robertson-morimoto-colicchio.html
Julian Robertson , whose firm Tiger
Management LLC has bred some highly successful “cub” money
managers, discouraged that career path in an interview last
night.  “I would really rather see young people go into
engineering or  stem cells ,” Robertson said at a gala for the
 New York Stem Cell Foundation . “There are too many people
managing money now.”  With that, he walked into a roomful of scientists.  First he congratulated the recipient of the NYSCF Robertson
Prize, Kazutoshi Takahashi, who will receive $200,000 for his
research on pluripotent stem cells at Kyoto University.  “You’ve got a Nobel too!” Robertson said, referring to
Monday’s announcement that the  Nobel Prize  in Physiology or
Medicine would be awarded to Shinya Yamanaka, in whose
laboratory Takahashi worked.  Then there was conversation with researchers at Rockefeller
University, NYU School of Medicine and other institutions, in
which he learned about a study of the brains of the songbirds.  “We try to bring the lab to everybody,” said Susan Solomon, chief executive officer and co-founder of the NYSCF.  The cocktail hour in the atrium at Jazz at  Lincoln Center 
was set up as a science fair. Around the room, posters detailed
stem cell studies of Alzheimer’s, diabetes and heart disease.
Researchers in white laboratory coats stood by ready to talk
about their work as waiters passed Portobello mushroom cannoli.  Only Tie  Takahashi, 34, studied the posters. “I don’t wear this
kind of suit, only a lab coat,” he said. “This is the only tie
I own.”  Robertson said he became interested in funding stem cell
research after he heard about a couple who had twins, one of
whom was over-oxygenated at birth. She’d become “virtually a
vegetable, while the other was vibrant and fabulous,” Robertson
said. “They heard about a woman at Duke who injected people
with their own cord blood. The child responded dramatically.”  Autism Speaks  At the Autism Speaks to Wall Street gala last night at
Cipriani Wall Street, 500 guests had their meals prepared
tableside by restaurant chefs.  Duncan Niederauer , CEO of the  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , got to watch
 Tom Colicchio  make his dinner. Masaharu Morimoto and Rick Moonen
were also seen slaving over stoves. Jonathan Waxman offered his
customers tips for cooking lobster (not too much water, and a
good amount of salt).  Niederauer and his wife, Alison, have served as chairmen of
the event the past few years. Their son Liam is on the autism
spectrum.  “Liam will tell you he wants to be a chef when he grows
up,” Alison Niederauer said. “Maybe one day he’ll be a
celebrity chef at this event.”  Meanwhile first-grader Ethan Walmark, son of Michael Walmark, a managing director at JP Morgan Securities LLC,
performed “Piano Man” by  Billy Joel .  Ethan, who is autistic, loves communicating through music.
He wasn’t so into the gourmet food, though.  “He requested chicken nuggets with a side of ketchup,”
said his mother, Allison Walmark.  That dish may have been preferred at the  Goldman Sachs
Group (GS)  table, where Minetta Tavern chefs offered oeuf en gelee. A
lot of the pale-yellow Jello-looking stuff was left on plates.  “There is a genuine community of people I see here every
year, people from different firms,” George Mueller of  KKR & Co. (KKR) 
said. “This is a very unique charity event. I don’t know of
another set up this way.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on theater.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  