-- Scotiabank Expanding Hedge Fund Derivatives Services
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-10-11T18:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/scotiabank-to-expand-derivatives-services-for-hedge-funds.html
Bank of Nova Scotia ,  Canada ’s third-
largest bank, will offer more products to hedge funds including
derivatives trading as it expands  prime services  to compete
inside and outside its home country.  Scotiabank plans to provide clearing of listed derivatives
for its prime brokerage clients by the end of 2013 or early
2014, said John Stracquadanio, head of prime services for
Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets.  Stracquadanio’s unit has offered  securities lending , prime
brokerage and other hedge-fund services primarily in Canada.
After expanding its U.S. platform in July using technology
acquired from  Tokyo ’s  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , the bank
plans to offer services to hedge funds in all of the countries
where it does business, he said.  “Our goal is to make sure that when we’re speaking to a
manager that has a global portfolio, we can finance, lend
securities and ultimately execute globally to match the trading
strategy that the hedge fund has,” Stracquadanio said in a
telephone interview from  New York .  Before the 2008 financial crisis, firms including  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  dominated the prime
brokerage business, which Stracquadanio estimates has a fee pool
of $13 billion to $20 billion.  “After the financial crisis, the bank realized that it
could potentially compete in a very competitive market outside
of Canada,” said Stracquadanio, 47. “The crisis kind of
loosened the hold some of the larger players had on the
market.”  Less Competition  Competition has been thinned by the collapse of some
futures brokerages. Customers at  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , which
was led by former New Jersey Governor Jon S. Corzine, are still
missing $1.6 billion after the firm’s wrong-way bets on European
sovereign debt, credit-ratings downgrades and the worst
quarterly loss in the company’s history led to bankruptcy last
October.  Futures account holders at Peregrine Financial Group Inc.
will receive a $123 million interim payout after more than $200
in segregated client money was left in limbo. Founder and Chief
Executive Officer Russell Wasendorf Sr. was arrested July 13
after a suicide attempt and a signed confession that he
defrauded customers for 20 years.  Stracquadanio declined to name hedge-fund clients or say
how many customers Scotiabank has.  “I don’t envision you seeing us as a top-three prime
services provider,”  Stracquadanio said. “We’ll be much more
of a unique provider.”  Scotiabank’s Global Banking and Markets unit, formerly
known as  Scotia Capital , had profit of C$398 million ($406
million) in the fiscal third quarter, representing about one-
fifth of the bank’s profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  