-- Serbia Makes Insufficient Progress for EU Membership Talks
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-10-10T15:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/serbia-makes-insufficient-progress-for-eu-membership-talks-1-.html
Serbia  needs to step up efforts to
settle its relationship with Kosovo and improve its judicial,
political and economic systems to win a date to start European
Union membership talks, the European Commission said.  The biggest of the six former Yugoslav republics formally
became an EU candidate in March, joining other former federation
partners in moving toward the world’s largest trading bloc.
Slovenia has been a member since 2004 and  Croatia  will enter
next year. Montenegro has started talks and the Republic of
Macedonia is ready to begin negotiations the commission said
today in a report.  “Serbia still needs to achieve further progress toward a
visible and sustainable improvement of relations with  Kosovo ,
the key priority set out in the commission opinion on Serbia’s
membership application,” it said in an annual progress report
released in Brussels today.  This process “should gradually result in the full
normalization of relations between Serbia and Kosovo,” the
report said, adding that “addressing the problems in northern
Kosovo, while respecting the territorial integrity of Kosovo and
the particular needs of the local population, will be an
essential element of this process.”  Kosovo, a former Serb province that unilaterally declared
independence in 2008, is recognized by 22 of 27 EU member states
and  Germany  wants unconditional resumption of dialog between the
two sides. Serbs consider Kosovo, the home of their Orthodox
church, as the cradle of their own culture and religion and
reject any move to carve it from the nation.  ‘Some Progress’  A constructive approach to further dialog with Kosovo
remains the key for Serbia’s EU accession, the commission said,
noting “some progress” in reforms in “some areas” over the
past year and “no further progress‘‘ toward ‘‘establishing a
functioning market economy.’’  The wording of the EU’s comments on respecting the
territorial integrity of Kosovo ‘‘can only be an obstacle to
further dialog,’’ Premier  Ivica Dacic  told reporters today.  ‘‘I’ve never seen territorial integrity without
sovereignty,’’ Dacic said. ‘‘Serbia really has no intention to
use violent methods’’ to challenge the existing delineation with
the breakaway province ‘‘but demanding from us to accept such
definition is unacceptable.’’ This opens the question of whether
there is now ‘‘a requirement for soft recognition’’ of Kosovo as
a state, he said.  Serbia will seek an explanation tonight of the wording
during a visit by EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule, the
head of the European Delegation in Serbia Vincent Degert told
Bloomberg.  Milosevic Legacy  Once a pariah in the West under former President  Slobodan
Milosevic , Serbia needs to improve the rule of law, step up the
pace of public administration overhaul and improve the civilian
oversight of security forces.  ‘‘Organized crime remains a serious concern in Serbia, in
particular regarding  money laundering  and drug smuggling,’’ the
report said. Serbia needs to build up ‘‘the track record of
investigations and convictions,’’ it said.  Serbian support for EU entry fell below 50 percent for the
third time in a year amid concern about conditions attached to
its entry. Support declined to 49 percent from 51 percent in
December, according to a June 14-23 survey conducted by the
Belgrade-based EU Integration Office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  