-- Sheikh Mohammed, Qatari Royals Push Thoroughbred Sale to Record
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-10-10T23:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/sheikh-mohammed-qatari-royals-push-thoroughbred-sale-to-record.html
Dubai ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum and members of the Qatari royal family helped
push sales at the annual auction of  Europe ’s top young
racehorses to a record this week.  Buyers spent 48 million guineas ($80 million) on 279
yearlings during the first two days of the three-day auction at
Tattersalls in Newmarket, eastern  England . That’s the most over
the first two days since the yearling auction started in 2003.
Two yearlings -- untrained one-year-old thoroughbred racehorses
-- were sold for more than 1 million guineas yesterday, while 17
changed hands for more than 500,000 guineas.  “It might seem a little bizarre bearing in mind the
continued economic uncertainty but the sales have been
remarkably resilient,” Jimmy George, marketing director of
Tattersalls, said in an interview. “Top yearlings will bring
the top buyers out. There are some very good stallions standing
in Britain and Ireland at the moment.”  The sales mark the first time the first crop of foals by
Sea the Stars, the 2,000 Guineas, Epsom Derby and Prix de l’Arc
de Triomphe winner in 2009, have come to auction.  Although Sheikh Mohammed, the world’s biggest owner of race
horses, and Irish millionaire John Magnier’s Coolmore operation
were still the top spenders, the sales are attracting “a wider
cross section of top-end buyers,” George said.  Sheikh Mohammed spent more than 6 million guineas on 25
horses, while Magnier bought 10 yearlings for more than 5
million guineas. The guinea, no longer in use and equivalent to
1 pound, 5 pence, was the unit of currency often paid to artists
and professionals.  Qatar Racing  Sheikh Fahad bin Abdullah Al Thani, a member of Qatar’s
royal family, stood a few yards away from the Dubai ruler as he
checked out some of the horses being walked around the paddock.  “We always look for value, we never try to overpay for any
lot,” Sheikh Fahad said in an interview. “It depends on the
pedigree, it depends on the individual horse. We put a value on
a horse, and we stick to that.”  Dunaden, which Sheikh Fahad bought for 120,000 euros
($155,000) in 2010, won the Melbourne Cup, the world’s richest
turf race, last year.  Sheikh Fahad said his brother, Sheikh Hamad, is now also
involved in thoroughbred racing. The pair are purchasing horses
under the banner of Qatar Racing.  David Redvers , Sheikh Fahad’s bloodstock manager, yesterday
bought two Sea the Stars colts, one for 430,000 guineas and the
other for 575,000 guineas.  “The emergence of the Qatari royal family as a major force
on the global racing scene has obviously had a big impact,”
George said.  Increased Demand  Sales have also held up because breeders cut back on
producing horses after the global financial crisis of 2008, and
increased demand from buyers in the U.S.,  Australia ,  Japan  and
Hong Kong, George added.  The top lot after two days was a Galileo bay filly, sold to
Nicolas de Watrigant’s Artassenx, France-based Mandore
International Agency for 1.5 million guineas.  “She is one that you would like on your farm,” de
Watrigant, who outbid Magnier, said in comments on the
Tattersalls  website . “She is a lovely filly with a Classic
pedigree, and she moves very well.”  The auction concludes today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Newmarket through the London
newsroom on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  