-- Slim’s Frisco Acquires AuRico Gold Assets for $750 Million
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-10-10T20:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/slim-s-frisco-buys-aurico-mexico-mining-assets-for-750-million.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s Minera
Frisco SAB agreed to acquire mining assets in Mexico from  AuRico
Gold Inc. (AUQ)  for $750 million in what would be the largest gold
deal involving a Mexican company.  AuRico will sell properties including the Ocampo mine and
Venus and Los Jarros projects in northern Chihuahua state and a
50 percent stake in the Orion project in Nayarit state, the
companies said yesterday in separate statements.  Slim, the world’s richest person according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index , is betting precious metals will show
resilience as the global economy struggles to grow. The price of
gold, which is poised to rise for the 12th straight year, hasn’t
dropped below $1,500 an ounce in more than a year.  Frisco (MFRISCOA) , which was spun off from Slim’s holding company
Grupo Carso SAB at the beginning of 2011, is his biggest holding
behind wireless carrier America Movil SAB and financial-services
company Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB. He holds an almost 80
percent stake in Mexico City-based Frisco.  The Ocampo mine would add 20 percent to Frisco’s 2012
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization,
and 11 percent in 2013, based on AuRico’s production and cost
forecasts, Rodrigo Garcilazo, an analyst at Corporativo GBM SAB
in Mexico City, said today in a note.  While the acquisition looks positive for Frisco, financing
it completely with borrowings would boost the company’s net-
debt-to-earnings ratio to about 3 times, from 1.6 times,
“making us cautious on a further equity increase,” Garcilazo
said.  El Chanate  AuRico, based in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , plans to use
proceeds from the sale to pay down debt, make other investments
and return capital to shareholders. The company will continue to
operate its El Chanate mine in Mexico’s Sonora state and the
Young-Davidson operation in Ontario.  AuRico soared 21 percent to C$7.60 at the close in Toronto,
 the biggest gain  since Nov. 4, 2008. Frisco increased 0.5
percent to 54.85 pesos in Mexico City.  The transaction price implies a price to net asset value
multiple of 0.75 times, which is “attractive” for AuRico,
given the company’s average trading multiple of about 0.63 times
before the transaction, Rahul Paul, a Toronto-based analyst at
Canaccord Financial Inc., said in a note today. Paul upgraded
 AuRico (AUQ)  to buy from hold following the announcement.  ‘Operationally Challenging’  “Ocampo was widely considered by investors to be an
operationally challenging and capital intensive asset generating
limited free  cash flow , and had been the source of the company’s
recent operational shortfalls,” Paul said.  AuRico lowered its 2012 production forecast on July 16,
citing reduced productivity as a result of high labor turnover
at the Ocampo gold and silver mine. The company announced at the
same time that Chief Executive Officer Rene Marion would resign
for health reasons. Marion was replaced by Scott Perry, who had
been chief financial officer.  AuRico acquired the Young-Davidson mine when it bought
Northgate Minerals Corp. for C$1.34 billion ($1.37 billion) in
October 2011. The company sold its El Cubo mine and an
exploration project in Mexico to  Endeavour Silver Corp. (EDR)  in July
this year.  The AuRico deal is Frisco’s second acquisition in two
years. The company increased its stake in Minera Tayahua SA,
which operates a silver and gold mine, to 90 percent in exchange
for allowing minority shareholders to acquire 5.64 billion pesos
($440 million) in Frisco stock.  Lower Costs  The Los Jarros project surrounds Frisco’s El Concheno mine,
and Ocampo and Venus are nearby, Slim’s company said. That
should lead to lower operating costs for the combined projects,
Frisco said.  AuRico is planning a “meaningful, one-time return of
capital” to shareholders, probably in the first quarter of
2013, CEO Perry said today on a conference call.  “We are probably talking about a ballpark figure of $300
million that is going to represent the one-time return of
capital,” Perry said.  The proposed sale would be the largest gold deal involving
a Mexican company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Globally, there have been 19 gold-mining deals bigger than $100
million announced this year, valued at $6.49 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 18
transactions worth $14.4 billion announced in the same period of
2011.  Frisco said it hired Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
unit as an adviser that will help it finance the transaction and
refinance other debt.  Credit Suisse Group AG advised AuRico and it also received
legal counsel from Fasken Martineau DuMoulin LLP, the Canadian
company said. The transaction is expected to close in December,
the companies said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  Mexico  City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  