-- Soccer Cheating Reduced by Polygraph Testing, Official Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-10-10T13:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/soccer-cheating-reduced-by-polygraph-testing-official-says.html
Soccer match-fixing in  Singapore  has
been reduced by compulsory lie detector tests for players as the
country tries to stop criminal syndicates infiltrating the game.  Singapore’s S-League introduced lie detection tests into
players’ code of conduct in 2001 after revelations that several
matches had been fixed.  “It is now compulsory for all players to go through
polygraph tests,” Winston Lee, general secretary of the
Singapore F.A., told delegates at the Leaders in Football
conference at Chelsea’s  Stamford  Bridge today. “They have to
sign a form agreeing to the polygraph tests, and we can have a
random test.”  In August  Juventus Football Club (JUVE)  SpA’s coach  Antonio Conte 
was suspended for 10 months by Italy’s soccer federation for
failing to report a match-fixing incident. Around 45 people
including players and coaches for 13 teams were accused of
involvement in a case that police said involved match-fixing and
illegal betting. Conte wasn’t accused of fixing directly. Wilson
Perumal, a Singapore national, was jailed for two years in
Finland last year for fixing matches there.  “Match-fixing is a cancer in football and it’s everywhere,
it’s not just confined to  Asia ,” Lee said. “We have taken a
very strong stand against match-fixing and we are quite happy
that it is working.”  The measures haven’t stopped criminal groups from trying to
influence Singaporean games.  “Recently some foreigners flew into the country and
offered a large sum of money to a goalkeeper,” Lee said. “He
reported this to our F.A. and we had these people arrested and
they are now in jail in Singapore.”  FIFPRO, an  umbrella organization  for professional players,
questioned the efficacy of polygraph tests after they were
introduced by Bulgarian team Lokomotiv Plovdiv.  “Many scientists have criticized the use of the lie
detector,” FIFPro lawyer Wil van Megen said. “Experts say that
people can cheat at these tests, that people can be influenced
while taking these tests, that these tests can give the wrong
results. Simply put: lie detector tests are dubious.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom at 
3677 or  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 