-- South Africa Economic Outlook Deteriorating, Marcus Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-10-10T10:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/south-africa-economic-outlook-deteriorating-marcus-says-1-.html
South Africa ’s economic outlook is
worsening and job losses will mount as strikes spread in
 Africa ’s biggest economy,  Reserve Bank  Governor Gill Marcus
said.  “The outlook at the moment is deteriorating rapidly,”
Marcus told students at Rhodes University in the southern town
of Grahamstown. Recent capital outflows are an “indicator of a
loss of confidence” among foreign investors, she said.  South Africa has been hit by strikes that began at  Lonmin
Plc (LMI) ’s platinum mine in August, curbing production and prompting
the central bank to lower its economic growth forecast for this
year to 2.6 percent. The Reserve Bank left its  benchmark
interest rate  unchanged at 5 percent last month after reducing
it for the first time in 20 months in July.  “We have been seen as a destination of choice,” Marcus
said. “This has all changed over the last few weeks. What is
happening now is really of great risk” because there may be
“high wage, double-digit wage settlements. One of the
inevitable consequences that is likely to come out of it is loss
of jobs.”  The rand has slumped 7.1 percent against the dollar since
the Lonmin strike began on Aug. 10, the biggest decline of 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It traded at 8.6973 as of
12:27 a.m. in Johannesburg, down from 8.6788 when Marcus made
her comments on the economy.  Manufactured Goods  “The rand is very volatile,” she said. “We do not target
a level of the rand. There is no doubt that if you have the rand
at this level it makes you more competitive. The reality is that
there is no market out there” for manufactured goods.  Lonmin, the world’s third-largest platinum company, ended a
six-week illegal strike by workers by agreeing to boost wages as
much as 22 percent. Since then, stoppages shut mines owned by
 Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s biggest platinum
producer, and  Anglo Ashanti Ltd. (AU) , Africa’s top gold producer.  Inflation has remained within the central bank’s 3 percent
to 6 percent target band in the four months through August, when
it measured 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  