-- South Carolina Voter ID Law Blocked Until After Election
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/south-carolina-voter-id-law-blocked-until-after-election.html
South Carolina became the fourth
state to be blocked from requiring voters to show photo
identification before casting a ballot in the Nov. 6 election.  A special panel of three federal judges in  Washington 
yesterday ruled that given the time left before the election,
requiring photo ID at polling stations puts a burden on minority
voters that violates the Voting Rights Act of 1965. “Proper and
smooth functioning” of a key protection in the South Carolina
law can only be assured in elections after this year, the judges
said.  “Even assuming the best intentions and extraordinary
efforts by all involved, achieving that goal is too much to
reasonably demand or expect in a four week-period -- and there
is too much of a risk to African-American voters for us to roll
the dice in such a fashion,” U.S. Circuit Judge Brett Kavanaugh
said in the ruling.  Republican-backed voter-ID laws in Texas, Wisconsin and
 Pennsylvania  have also been stopped in court this year.
Supporters of the laws, passed since President  Barack Obama ’s
2008 victory, say they are needed to prevent voter fraud.
Opponents contend they are aimed at suppressing the votes of
lower-income people and the elderly who might be more inclined
to vote for Democrats.  Voting Rights  South Carolina is one of 16 jurisdictions with a history of
voting rights violations that need approval from either the
Justice Department or a special panel of federal judges in
Washington to change election procedures under Section 5 of the
Voting Rights Act.  The court said there was nothing inherently discriminatory
in the law that would bar enforcement in future elections.  South Carolina Attorney General Alan Wilson called the
ruling “a major victory for South Carolina and its election
process.”  “It affirms our voter ID law is valid and constitutional
under the Voting Rights Act,” he said in an e-mailed statement.
“The fact remains, voter ID laws do not discriminate or
disenfranchise. They ensure integrity at the ballot box.”  Dena Iverson, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said South
Carolina’s law underwent “broad modifications” after the
department raised concerns that it would exclude minority
voters.  ‘Future Elections’  “The court’s preclearance of the law for future elections
is expressly conditioned on South Carolina’s binding promise
that all qualified voters without photo ID will still be allowed
to vote without additional burden,” Iverson said in an e-mailed
statement. “The attorney general intends to monitor its
implementation closely to ensure compliance with the court’s
order.”  J. Gerald Hebert, a lawyer who represented groups seeking
to block the law, said the ruling was “a victory for the voters
of South Carolina over their own elected officials.”  South Carolina’s law gives prospective voters two options
for the ID they need. They can show one of four approved state-
or federal-issued photo IDs or use a voter registration card
bearing the individual’s picture that the state will issue for
free.  Voting Rights  South Carolina’s voter ID law was the first to be rejected
by the Obama administration under the Voting Rights Act. The
state responded to the Justice Department’s refusal to clear the
plan by filing a lawsuit in February.  During final arguments in the case last month, the judges
appeared skeptical that the state would have enough time to get
the law in place for the Nov. 6 election, saying that many
state-imposed deadlines for implementation expired last year.  The department argued that South Carolina didn’t produce
any evidence of in-person voter fraud in the state. Rather,
legislators ignored information from election officials showing
that 63,756 of the 178,175 voters who lack state photos, or
about 36 percent, were non-white, the department said.  A study by the department’s expert, Charles Stewart, found
that black voters in South Carolina are more than twice as
likely as white voters to lack one of the acceptable forms of
identification.  A lawyer for the state, H. Christopher Bartolomucci, argued
in court that South Carolina’s ID law differed from  Texas ’s in
that photo identification cards would be available free of
charge in at least two places in every county.  Voter Affidavits  The law’s so-called reasonable impediment provision allows
would-be voters with old, non-photo registration cards to cast
ballots after filling out an affidavit explaining why they lack
a photo ID, the judges said. Election officials can reject those
ballots only if they find the affidavit was false, according to
the ruling.  “That extremely broad interpretation of the reasonable
impediment provision will make it far easier than some might
have expected or feared for South Carolina voters with a non-
photo registration card (and without photo ID) to vote as they
could under pre-existing law,” wrote Kavanaugh, who was
appointed to the bench by President George W. Bush.  Without the reasonable impediment provision, the law may
not have been cleared for use in post-2012 elections, he said.  U.S. district judges John Bates and Colleen Kollar-Kotelly
joined the opinion. Bates is also a Bush appointee while Kollar-
Kotelly was nominated by President Bill Clinton.  The case is South Carolina v. U.S., 12-cv-00203, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 