-- Sprint Said to Hold Off on MetroPCS Counterbid for Now
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-10-10T20:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/sprint-is-said-to-hold-off-on-metropcs-counterbid-for-now.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  is holding off
on an immediate counterbid for  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  to
gain time to scrutinize the carrier’s planned combination with
T-Mobile USA Inc., said people familiar with the situation.  Sprint’s  board  met last week after  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) 
disclosed a proposal to combine its T-Mobile unit with MetroPCS,
said one of the people, who asked not to be named because the
process is private. Before making an offer, Sprint wants to see
Deutsche Telekom’s proxy filing, which companies typically
release one to two months after a deal announcement, to see how
the German company negotiated its agreement, said the people.  Sprint may have as much as three months to bid before
MetroPCS investors vote on the T-Mobile deal, said the people.
The added heft of MetroPCS may help the third-largest U.S.
wireless carrier compete more effectively with market leaders
 Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse 
said last month that Sprint’s scale puts it at a disadvantage.  Representatives for Sprint and MetroPCS declined to
comment.  MetroPCS, which is trading as a proxy for the new company
until the deal with T-Mobile is completed, dropped 3.8 percent
to close at $12.04 in  New York . Sprint rose 1.8 percent to
$5.04.  “By waiting, Sprint has been able to remind MetroPCS
investors where their stock is headed without a Sprint
counterbid,” said Walt Piecyk, an analyst with BTIG LLC in New
York. “This could be very useful in future negotiations.”  First Run  This wouldn’t be Sprint’s first run at Richardson, Texas-
based MetroPCS. In February, the carrier offered $5.15 in cash
per share and a stock swap to take control of MetroPCS, a deal
that valued the pay-as-you-go operator at about 30 percent more
than its trading price, said people with knowledge of the
situation. That transaction would have given MetroPCS
 shareholders  a 30 percent stake in the combined company, the
people said.  Given the collapse of AT&T’s proposed $39 billion takeover
of T-Mobile in December, Sprint’s board felt less pressured to
do a deal, said the people. Sprint’s talks with MetroPCS started
in the fall of 2011, before the AT&T offer crumbled, said one of
these people. Sprint’s board ultimately vetoed the takeover,
people with knowledge of the offer said at the time.  Shares Double  Sprint’s offer would have valued MetroPCS at about $8
billion, including debt, people familiar with the plan had said.
Since then, Sprint’s stock has doubled, outperforming MetroPCS,
which had gained 4.2 percent over the same period through
yesterday. MetroPCS has a market value of about $4.5 billion,
while Overland, Kansas-based Sprint is valued at about $15
billion.  If Sprint were to again offer a 30 percent premium on the
shares, that would be about $16.26, based on yesterday’s closing
price.  Sprint could bid as little as $13 a share to top the T-
Mobile offer for MetroPCS, which would please Sprint’s
shareholders, BTIG’s Piecyk said today in an e-mail. He has a
neutral rating on Sprint and MetroPCS shares.  Return to Fray?  Deutsche Telekom said Oct. 3 it agreed to combine T-Mobile
with MetroPCS in a reverse merger that would make its Bellevue,
Washington-based unit a publicly traded company. The deal gave
MetroPCS shareholders $1.5 billion in cash, or about $4.09 a
share, and 26 percent of the combined company.  If Sprint chooses not to make an overture now, it could try
to buy the combined company later, said one of the people
familiar with the situation, though that deal may face
regulatory obstacles.  One issue that may hinder a counteroffer from Sprint is the
breakup fee, a person with knowledge of the situation said this
month. MetroPCS would pay $150 million if it backs out of the
current deal. The reverse breakup fee for T-Mobile is $250
million. Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom is prepared for a
counterbid from Sprint and would consider better terms if
necessary, another person familiar with the matter said this
month.  Ball’s Belle  The attention from Sprint and T-Mobile underscores MetroPCS
CEO Roger Linquist’s description of his company as “the belle
of the ball” in a market ripe for acquisitions. Sprint may have
an edge in pursuing MetroPCS because it uses the same kind of
network standard: code division multiple access, or CDMA.  T-Mobile relies on the global system for mobile
communications, or GSM. All the companies are moving toward a
new standard called long-term evolution, or LTE. Still, having
similar networks may make a Sprint-MetroPCS tie-up more
palatable, said  Chris Larsen , an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co.
in New York.  “A merger of these two would be able to attain synergies
faster and have less network integration risk,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  