-- State Department Followed Benghazi Attack as It Happened
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-10-10T15:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/state-department-followed-benghazi-attack-as-it-happened.html
The U.S. State Department monitored
the attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi,  Libya , “in almost
real-time,” according to an official who oversees diplomatic
security.  Charlene Lamb, deputy assistant secretary of state for
international programs in the Bureau of Diplomatic Security,
said a security agent activated a danger-notification system as
the attack began shortly before 10 p.m. local time on Sept. 11.  “From that point on, I could follow what was happening in
almost real time,” Lamb said in written testimony prepared for
a hearing today by the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, which has been investigating the attack and whether
security was adequate.  State Department officials said yesterday they had never
concluded the attack grew out of a protest over a video
depicting the  Prophet Muhammad , as some Obama administration
officials had said last month. The officials, who briefed
reporters on condition of anonymity, said there had been no
protest at the U.S. consulate that day and the attack came
suddenly.  Patrick Kennedy , undersecretary of state for management,
today defended the initial accounts from the administration that
the attack resulted from a protest that spiraled out of control.  “No one in the administration has claimed to know all the
answers,” Kennedy said in his written testimony for the
hearing. “We have always made clear that we are giving the best
information we have at the time. And that information has
evolved.”  Kennedy in particular defended U.S. Ambassador to the
United Nations  Susan Rice , who said on Sept. 16 that the attack
started as a “spontaneous, not premeditated response” to
demonstrations in  Egypt  over a “very offensive video.”  Referring to Rice’s comments at the time, Kennedy said,
“The information she had at that point from the intelligence
community is the same that I had at that point. As time went on,
additional information became available.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  