-- Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks
-- B y   J a m e s   T y s o n
-- 2012-10-10T18:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
known as the Beige Book.  The  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta  prepared the latest
report. Information was collected on or before Sept. 28.  Boston: “Reports from business contacts in the First
District indicate the region’s economy is expanding at a modest
pace. Most retail and manufacturing contacts report sales or
revenue gains from a year earlier, although the manufacturers
say growth is slower than earlier in the year and some have seen
actual declines. Consulting and advertising firms are generally
upbeat, with results depending on specific client industries.
Residential real estate contacts note increases in sales and
only small changes in median sale prices. Commercial real estate
leasing activity has slowed somewhat, while investment
conditions remain positive. With the exception of a consulting
firm that has expanded recently and a manufacturer citing
especially strong growth, responding firms are doing only modest
hiring. While contacts in most industries mention the upcoming
election, so-called fiscal cliff, and  Europe  as risk factors
increasing uncertainty, it is only in commercial real estate
leasing that respondents say current activity levels are
measurably damped by such concerns.”  New York : “Economic activity in the Second District has
held steady since the last report. Prices of finished goods and
services have generally been stable. The labor market has shown
further signs of softening, as fewer business contacts report
that they are adding workers, and a major employment agency
describes hiring activity as sluggish. Retailers, including auto
dealers, note some leveling off in sales activity following
increases. Tourism activity has generally held steady at a high
level, though there were some indications of softening in mid-
September. Residential real estate markets have shown further
signs of improvement. Office markets have shown some signs of
slackening, but industrial markets have picked up modestly.
Finally, bankers report increased loan demand, except on
consumer loans, steady to tighter credit standards, and lower
delinquency rates on commercial loans and mortgages.”  Philadelphia: “Aggregate business activity in the Third
District has continued to improve - growing modestly - since the
previous  Beige Book . A couple of sectors grew faster than the
average, while a few declined slightly. Manufacturing activity
declined somewhat, although a slight increase in new orders may
presage a turnabout. Retail sales growth has continued at a
modest pace since the last Beige Book, while auto sales have
continued to increase at a strong pace. Lending volumes at Third
District banks have continued to grow modestly, and  credit
quality  has continued to improve. Sales of new homes have slowed
since the previous Beige Book period, while brokers report
strong growth in sales of existing homes (from previously low
levels). Commercial real estate contacts reported less leasing
activity and continued weak demand for new construction.
Service-sector firms reported mixed results with stronger
tourist visitation, a slowing defense sector, and modest growth
across most other service sectors. Price pressures have changed
little since the last Beige Book.”  Cleveland :  “ Business activity expanded in the Fourth
District since our last report, although the rate of growth
remains modest. On balance, manufacturing output rose. In the
real estate sector, nonresidential construction picked up, while
reports on single-family housing starts were mixed. Sales of
existing family homes increased. Retailers and auto dealers saw
a modest improvement in sales during August and September on a
year-over-year basis. Shale gas activity continued at a robust
pace, while coal production fell below prior-year levels. The
slowdown in freight transport volume, which began in the second
quarter, has abated. And the demand for business and consumer
credit moved slightly higher. ”  Richmond: “Fifth District economic activity improved
modestly since our last report. Most manufacturing contacts
reported activity firmed somewhat. Port activity continued to
expand. Retailers reported that sales grew on balance, and non-
retail firms cited marginal revenue expansion. Lending activity
improved somewhat, although most applications continued to be
for refinancing. Residential real estate activity continued to
strengthen; however, areas of weakness remained in the District.
Tourism contacts reported healthy bookings as the summer season
ended. Commercial real estate reports were mixed for private-
sector projects and weaker for government-related projects.
Labor market reports were also mixed, with accounts of modest
increases in employment along with major layoffs and hiring
freezes. Price changes were generally small in the manufacturing
and services sectors in recent weeks.”  Atlanta: “Sixth District business contacts described
economic activity as expanding slowly in September, and most
expect little change in the near term. Most retailers cited slow
sales growth while auto dealers continued to experience strong
results. Hospitality reports remained largely positive, with the
exception of cruise-lines. Residential brokers and builders
signaled that housing conditions continued to improve in many
parts of the District as sales and prices of new and existing
homes slightly increased compared with a year ago. Commercial
development continued to improve, led by multifamily
construction. Manufacturers indicated that new orders had
softened while production levels only mildly increased. Bankers
saw improvements in demand for overall loans, particularly those
for housing purchases and refinances. Payrolls expanded modestly
on net, and firms noted some deceleration in input prices, while
wages remained relatively unchanged. ”  Chicago: “Economic activity in the Seventh District
continued to expand in late August and early September, but
again at a slow pace. However, contacts remained guardedly
optimistic that conditions would improve; noting that at least
some of the uncertainty surrounding the outlook was likely to be
resolved following the November election. Growth in consumer
spending was little changed, while business spending increased
at a slower rate. Manufacturing activity edged lower, and growth
in construction moderated. Credit conditions continued to
improve gradually. Cost pressures increased some, due in large
part to higher food and energy prices. The drought led to an
earlier start than normal for the harvest, and corn and soybean
prices moved down a bit.”  St. Louis : “Economic activity in the Eighth District has
expanded at a moderate pace since our previous survey. Recent
reports of planned activity from manufacturing and services
contacts have been positive. Residential real estate market
conditions have continued to improve moderately, while
commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have
continued to be mixed. Overall lending activity at a sample of
small and mid-sized District banks increased slightly from mid-
June to early September. Agricultural conditions in the District
have generally improved since our previous report.”  Minneapolis: “The Ninth District economy expanded modestly
since the last report. Increased activity was noted in
construction and real estate, consumer spending, tourism, and
professional services. Energy and mining were steady at high
levels, while agriculture varied widely, with crop farmers
generally in better condition than animal producers. Meanwhile,
activity slowed slightly in the manufacturing sector. Labor
markets tightened somewhat. Overall wage increases remained
subdued, although stronger increases were reported in some
areas. Price increases were generally modest.”  Kansas City : “The Tenth District economy expanded at
slightly slower pace in late August and September compared to
earlier in the summer.  Consumer spending  slowed somewhat,
manufacturing growth was more subdued, and transportation firms
reported flat conditions. Growth in commercial real estate
activity slowed marginally, but remained on a positive trend.
Residential sales and construction continued to grow at a solid
pace. Drought conditions hurt agricultural production, though
farm incomes were generally healthy due to higher crop prices
and insurance programs. Energy activity remained solid, and
bankers noted steady loan demand, better loan quality, and
increased deposits. Prices rose moderately, but wage pressures
were contained outside of a few skilled positions.”  Dallas : “The Eleventh District economy expanded at a
moderate pace over the past six weeks. Energy activity remained
strong, and construction and real estate activity picked up as
housing demand strengthened. Demand for business services
improved slightly, and transportation services activity
continued to expand. Reports on manufacturing activity were
mixed. Growth in retail and auto sales slowed over the reporting
period, but Eleventh District sales continued to outperform the
national average, according to respondents. Lenders noted steady
loan demand. Agricultural conditions improved slightly. Price
and wage pressures were modest over the reporting period, and
employment levels continued to edge up. Many respondents across
industries said continued uncertainty about upcoming elections
was clouding outlooks.”  San Francisco : “Economic activity in the Twelfth District
grew at a modest pace during the reporting period of mid-August
through late-September. Upward price pressures remained limited
overall, and upward wage pressures remained muted. Sales of
retail items rose slightly, and demand for most business and
consumer services gained further on net. District manufacturing
activity edged up. Agricultural output was mostly steady, while
activity continued to trend up for providers of energy
resources. Home demand in the District showed continued signs of
improvement, and demand for commercial real estate was mainly
stable. Financial institutions reported overall loan demand was
unchanged or up somewhat on balance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Tyson in Washington at 
 jtyson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  