-- Sweden’s Surplus Fetish Draws Rebuke as Deadweight to Growth
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-10-11T10:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/sweden-s-surplus-fetish-draws-rebuke-as-deadweight-to-expansion.html
As the euro region tightens its belt
to draw a line under its three-year debt crisis, the architect
of  Sweden ’s budget framework says it’s time for the Scandinavian
nation to go the other way.  Sweden’s target of achieving a 1 percent  budget surplus  of
gross domestic product over an economic cycle is a relic from a
different time that should be replaced, said Assar Lindbeck, a
professor who headed the commission that in 1993 proposed the
current fiscal framework as a way out of Sweden’s economic
crisis. Now, Lindbeck says the government should focus more on
investment and limit excessive wealth accumulation by the state.  “I see no reason to continue to have a surplus target
since we already have such low public debt,”  Lindbeck , a
 Stockholm  University professor and former chairman of the Nobel
economics prize committee, said in an interview. “It has become
a fetish, the surplus target, to showcase accountability for
public finances” as politicians are “fighting yesterday’s
battles,” he said.  Finance Minister  Anders Borg  has cut debt levels to about
35 percent of GDP since taking office in 2006 and kept the
budget close to balance throughout the financial crisis. He’s
now turning on the stimulus spigots to protect Sweden against
the deepening debt crisis in  Europe , predicting a deficit next
year. The approach has triggered accusations of fiscal
recklessness from the opposition Social Democrats as budget
restraint is held up as the ideal.  Investing Abroad  Lindbeck says a better target would be to create debt
goals. He envisages a public debt target of 30 percent to 40
percent of GDP.  “That would correct the imbalances we see right now
between savings and investments,” he said. “We’re using 7
percent of our GDP to accumulate assets abroad with likely small
returns” instead of investing for growth, he said.  Sweden’s public debt will fall to 34.7 percent of GDP in
2014 from 38.4 percent last year, the government predicted last
month. The country will post deficits of 0.3 percent and 0.6
percent of GDP in 2012 and 2013, after averaging a 1 percent
surplus since the surplus rule’s introduction in 2000. The
surplus has averaged 1.2 percent since the current government
came to power in 2006.  “The surplus target serves us well,” Borg said in a Sept.
20 interview, even after the limit forced the government to
cancel plans for a fifth round of income tax cuts since gaining
power in 2006. “We’re about to get some type of re-
interpretation where we every year, even in a weak economy,
should tighten fiscal policy. That has never been how we’ve
interpreted the surplus target.”  Balanced Budget  The government in its 2013 budget, unveiled last month,
said it plans to spend 23 billion kronor ($3.5 billion), or 0.7
percent of output, on roads, railways, research and corporate
tax cuts. The plan was slammed by the  Social Democrats , who said
the government will probably breach the surplus target. The
opposition Left Party, the successor to the Communist Party, is
alone among parliament’s eight groups in urging that the surplus
rule be scrapped.  Borg last month stuck to his pledge to meet the fiscal
target even as it’s based on a forecast for economic growth
that’s higher than those of Sweden’s central bank, the nation’s
four largest banks and the National Institute of Economic
Research.  Unemployment Gains  The government sees growth accelerating to 2.7 percent next
year and 3.7 percent in 2014. The economy, which relies on
exports for about half its output, is now at danger of
contracting as demand from Europe stagnates. Surveys at the
start of this month showed both  manufacturing  and the services
economy shrinking in September as  consumer confidence 
deteriorates amid rising  unemployment .  A report today showed that unemployment, when including
people in government labor programs, rose to 8.5 percent last
month from 8.3 percent a year earlier.  Jesper Hansson, director of forecasting at NIER, said if
the institute’s forecast for 1.8 percent growth in 2013 and 2.8
percent in 2014 are used, the government won’t have money for
its initiatives. “It wouldn’t be so weird to change the surplus
target for 2015 to 2025 to perhaps 0.5 percent instead, or
perhaps zero” since one of the initial arguments was to save
for when baby-boomers born in the 1940s retired, he said.  Wealth Grows  Swedish net wealth, which comprises state assets and
pension savings adjusting for the value of debt, will increase
to 18.6 percent of GDP in 2016 from an estimated 17.7 percent
this year, after falling in 2013 and 2014, according to the
government’s budget released last month.  The  International Monetary Fund  last month criticized
Sweden for not doing its part to boost global growth by
maintaining current account surpluses the fund said were too
big. Sweden, which was ranked fourth on a list of perpetrators,
has posted a  current account  surplus every quarter since 1998.  “There are quite a few good arguments in favor of a
 balanced budget ,” said Lars Calmfors, a professor at  Stockholm
University  and former head the Swedish Fiscal Policy Council,
appointed by the government to assess its spending. “We don’t
need to accumulate as much financial wealth, which would create
room to lower taxes or increase public spending a bit more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  