-- Sweden Sees Delay to Stricter Bank Capital Rules Implementation
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-10-10T15:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/sweden-sees-delay-to-stricter-bank-capital-rules-implementation.html
Sweden  won’t be able to implement
its stricter capital regulation for banks on time because of
delays in the European Union, Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman said.  Sweden, which late last year told the nation’s four largest
banks to reach a core Tier 1 capital ratio of risk-weighted
assets of 10 percent by January and 12 percent in 2015, is
unlikely to be able to implement the first step until the middle
of 2013, Norman said today in Stockholm.  “The directive that our own laws will be based on is not
finished” and “it’s more and more obvious that we won’t be
able to do it on time,” he said. “Realistically it can’t come
into force until somewhere around the middle of 2013.”  Sweden’s tighter rules have caused discord between the EU
and Sweden, with Finance Minister  Anders Borg  fighting plans to
make the  European Central Bank  the region’s top regulator amid
concerns it would undermine freedom to set more rigorous capital
requirements than those targeted elsewhere. While the rules have
been delayed,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and SEB AB
already meet the 2015 threshold of 12 percent. Nordea Bank AB’s
capital ratio is just below.  “My message to the banks is that I assume that they will
remain at these levels or even raise them knowing” that “the
2015 threshold remains” at 12 percent, Norman said.  Handelsbanken had a core Tier 1 capital ratio of 16.8
percent at the end of the second quarter, while Swedbank’s and
SEB’s stood at 16.6 percent and 15.3 percent, respectively.
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ’s core Tier 1 ratio was 11.8 percent.  Sweden’s capital rules are more stringent than the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision’s minimum of 7 percent, which
takes effect by 2019. The European Banking Authority has a
temporary target of 9 percent for some lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  