-- Swiss Stocks Retreat as IMF Warns on Bank Assets; ABB Ltd
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-10-10T13:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/swiss-stocks-retreat-as-imf-warns-on-banks-adecco-drops.html
Swiss stocks  fell for a third day as
the  International Monetary Fund  said Europe’s banks may have to
shrink assets and Alcoa Inc. cut its forecast for global
aluminum demand, indicating a slowdown in  China .  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  dropped 1.5 percent to lead declines on the
benchmark Swiss Market Index.  EMS-Chemie Holding AG (EMSN)  slid 1.8
percent after saying it sees an economic slowdown in Europe and
possible weakening of growth in Asia and the U.S.  Dufry AG (DUFN) 
declined after it said it will buy a 51 percent stake in Folli-
Follie Group’s retail unit.  The  SMI (SMI)  slipped 0.2 percent to 6,636.23 at 3:50 p.m. in
Zurich for the longest losing streak in nearly a month. The
benchmark gauge has still surged 16 percent from this year’s low
on June 4 as European Central Bank policy makers agreed on an
unlimited bond-buying program and the  Federal Reserve  announced
a third round of quantitative easing. The broader Swiss
Performance Index also dropped 0.2 percent today.  Alcoa’s “somewhat cautious outlook for the coming months
chimes with the IMF’s downgrade to global growth, issued
yesterday,” Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at IG in London,
wrote in e-mailed comments. “This goes some way to explaining
why we are seeing further weakness in markets.”  The volume of shares in SMI-listed companies changing hands
was 34 percent lower than the 30-day average today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  IMF Forecasts  The IMF said European banks may need to sell as much as
$4.5 trillion in assets through 2013 if policy makers fall short
of pledges to stem the fiscal crisis. The projection, from
today’s IMF Global Financial Stability Report, is 18 percent
higher than its April estimate.  The Washington-based IMF yesterday cut its 2012 global
growth forecasts to 3.3 percent, the slowest since 2009.  Alcoa (AA) , the largest American aluminum producer, kicked off
the U.S. earnings season by cutting its forecast for global
consumption of the metal by 1 percentage point on slowing
Chinese demand. The company reported third-quarter profit and
sales that exceeded estimates.  ABB, the world’s largest manufacturer of power grids, fell
1.5 percent to 17.54 Swiss francs, retreating for a third
straight day.  EMS-Chemie dropped 1.8 percent to 196.20 francs, the
biggest decline in more than two weeks. The maker of engineering
plastics for cars and electronics said sales in the first nine
months of the year rose 5.9 percent to 1.35 billion francs ($1.4
billion). The company said it sees a clear economic slowdown in
 Europe  and possible further weakening in the U.S. and Asia.  Dufry Declines  Dufry slipped 0.4 percent to 113.50 francs. The operator of
Hudson News stores in airports agreed to buy a 51 percent stake
in Folli-Follie’s travel retail business to expand in the
Mediterranean tourism market.  Dufry will pay 200.5 million euros ($258 million) for the
stake, which it will finance by selling about 250 million euros
of shares, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said.  Transocean Ltd., the world’s largest offshore driller,
gained 1.1 percent to 43.05 francs, a second straight advance.  Hochdorf Holding AG (HOCN)  added 2.6 percent to 78.60 francs,
rising for a sixth day. The company signed a supply agreement
with two partners for Asian and Chinese Markets. Hochdorf could
potentially supply 1,000 tonnes of  infant formula  annually by
2015 under the deal, according to a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  