-- U.K. Stocks Fall for Third Day as Mining Shares Decline
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-10-10T16:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-k-stocks-decline-oil-companies-drop-offsets-banks.html
U.K.  stocks  declined for a third day
on concern the global economy is worsening, with mining stocks
falling on investor concerns about Chinese demand.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  and  Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  led miners lower after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said it sees a slowdown in demand for
industrial metals in  China .  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/)  lost 1.7 percent
after Societe Generale SA recommended investors sell the stock.
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
gained at least 2 percent.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index dropped 33.34 points, or 0.6 percent, to
5,776.71 at the close in London, the biggest decline this month.
The gauge has still climbed 9.8 percent from this year’s low on
June 1 as the  European Central Bank  agreed on an unlimited bond-
buying plan and U.S. unemployment fell to the lowest rate in
more than three years. The FTSE All-Share Index also fell 0.6
percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost 0.7 percent today.  “The FTSE has slipped lower once again as unease about
global growth prospects takes hold,” said Chris Beauchamp, a
market analyst at IG in  London . “Expectations for earnings
season are for a general slowdown in revenues, a reflection of
the stagnation seen around the world.”  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its global
growth forecasts and warned of even slower expansion if European
officials don’t address threats to their economies.  Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, kicked off
the U.S. earnings season yesterday by cutting its forecast for
global consumption of the metal by 1 percentage point on slowing
Chinese demand.  Five companies in the FTSE 100 Index, including  Tesco Plc (TSCO) ,
 WPP Plc (WPP)  and  Wolseley Plc (WOS) , were trading without the right to the
latest dividend today.  Mining Stocks  A  gauge  of mining shares in the FTSE 350 Index dropped 0.8
percent.  Max Layton , a London-based analyst at Goldman Sachs,
wrote in a report the high demand for copper and aluminum in
China, the biggest metals user, is set to “crash” by 2014.  Antofagasta slid 1.8 percent to 1,291 pence, Fresnillo lost
2.4 percent to 1,926 pence and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  slipped 2.8
percent to 1,060 pence.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  declined 1.9
percent to 7,600 pence.  Smith & Nephew,  Europe ’s largest maker of artificial hips
and knees, retreated 1.7 percent to 655 pence after SocGen
initiated coverage of the stock with a sell rating. The shares
were trading without the right to the latest dividend today.  Separately, U.S. medical devices company Biomet Inc. said
today it saw some “deceleration in growth” for its orthopedic
hip and knee devices.  Imagination Drops  Imagination Technologies Group Plc (IMG) , a maker of chip
technology for phones and tablet computers, plunged 9.4 percent
to 455.5 pence after Credit Suisse AG began coverage of the
shares with a sell rating.  Capita Plc (CPI)  slid 1.8 percent to 727 pence after  RBC Capital
Markets  lowered its recommendation on the shares to sector
perform, the equivalent of hold, from outperform.  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  lost 1.4 percent to 320.9 pence after the
company abandoned a planned merger with European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. The two companies said in a statement they
terminated the deal, hours before a deadline to formalize the
agreement or ask for more time, because they could not get
government backing.  FSA Requirement  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority relaxed a
requirement for lenders to meet an end-2013 deadline to achieve
a core capital ratio of 10 percent of their assets, the
Financial Times reported, without saying where it got the
information.  The FSA said on its website Sept. 27 it will allow banks to
deduct any increase in their minimum  capital requirements  from
buffers, with the effect that “no bank will be required to hold
the additional” reserves needed previously.  Lloyds advanced 4 percent to 38.48 pence. U.S. investment
firms Lone Star Funds and Kennedy-Wilson Holdings Inc. are among
remaining bidders for parts of about 2 billion euros ($2.58
billion) of mainly Irish real estate loans Lloyds is selling,
two people familiar with the matter said.  RBS gained 2.1 percent to 262.7 pence. Axa Investment
Managers SA and Norway’s sovereign-wealth fund today agreed to
buy two of the lenders’ properties in Frankfurt and Berlin for
784 million euros, the biggest German commercial real estate
transaction this year.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  added 3.8 percent to 93.4 pence after the
 Daily Mail  said BlackRock Inc. may buy the hedge-fund manager.  The takeover is “possible but not likely,” Peter Lenardos, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in London, wrote in
an e-mailed note. “We do not see the logic of acquiring a
company whose funds are underperforming key benchmarks and are
experiencing net outflows,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  