-- Landlords Win Ruling Protecting London Aristocratic Holdings
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-10-10T15:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-k-landlords-win-legal-fight-to-block-forced-sale-to-tenants.html
Landlords including one of Britain’s
wealthiest families won an appeal in the U.K. Supreme Court that
allows them to block forced sales of their land holdings to
long-term company tenants.  The court  upheld an appeal  by the  Howard de Walden Estate 
and the Day family, enabling them to stop the sale of the
“freehold” on properties in central  London  demanded by
corporate leaseholders Hosebay Ltd. and Lexgorge Ltd.  The decision has the greatest effect in central London,
home to the most expensive real estate in the U.K. and the basis
for the fortunes of aristocratic families including the Duke of
Westminster and Earl Cadogan. Had the court rejected the appeal,
tenants could have diminished landholdings held by the estates
in central London’s affluent Mayfair, St. James’s, Marylebone
and Fitzrovia districts.  “The large estates will be breathing a huge sigh of
relief,” said Sara Dolley, an associate at London-based law
firm Eversheds LLP who works as a real estate litigator. The
ruling “makes a much-needed return to common sense and reality.
It fits completely with the original intention of the
legislation.”  The ruling limits a law allowing residential tenants on
long-term leases to force the landlord to sell the freehold, or
outright ownership of the property. It clears up an
inconsistency created when the law was changed in 2002 that
enabled companies occupying a property originally built as a
house to demand the freehold sale, even though the property was
being used commercially.  Small Payment  A leasehold is a long-term rental agreement under which
land and the property on it reverts to the owner of the freehold
on maturity, typically of 99 years. The freeholder receives a
small annual payment known as a ground rent in addition to the
substantial lump sum paid for the leasehold, which may be
extended for additional payments.  The legal loophole allowed some investors “to appropriate
the freeholds of commercial buildings, which we do not believe
was ever the intention of Parliament,” Howard de Walden Estates
Chief Executive Officer Toby Shannon said in an e-mailed
statement responding to the unanimous judgment.  The estate manages 90 acres (36 hectares) north of Oxford
Street, surrounding Marylebone High Street, owned by the Howard
de Walden family.  Long-Term Investors  “This is an issue which affects not only the London
estates, but also pension funds, charities, local authorities,
private individuals and other long-term property investors with
interests throughout the country,” Shannon said.  Neither building involved in the appeal could be considered
a house under the law at the relevant time, Lord Cornwath wrote
in the London court’s ruling.  Hosebay didn’t qualify because it used the building at
Rosary Gardens in London’s South Kensington neighborhood as a
“self-catering hotel,” the judge said. Lexgorge uses an 18th
century house in Marylebone solely as an office.  “It is clear that it was never Parliament’s intention to
extend enfranchisement rights to commercial or business
tenants,” Grosvenor Group, the property company owned by the
Duke of Westminster’s family trusts, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The Duke, Gerald Grosvenor, is the world’s 72nd-richest man
with a net worth of $12.3 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . Grosvenor Group manages about 300 acres of
property in Belgravia and Mayfair, two of London’s most
expensive neighborhoods.  Leasehold Reform  Lawmakers adopted the 1967 Leasehold Reform Act to permit
tenants in low-income housing to acquire homes they had occupied
for years and protect them from rogue landlords. The 2002
amendments changed the way of determining which properties were
affected, allowing business leaseholders of mansions in areas
such as Mayfair to claim freehold purchasing rights originally
intended for occupiers of miners’ cottages in South Wales.  Many of the offices in London’s west end were built as
homes and converted to fill the supply shortage after the city’s
main business districts were damaged by bombing in World War II.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  