-- U.S. Scientists Share Chemistry Nobel for Cell Receptors
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2012-10-10T23:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-scientists-share-chemistry-nobel-for-cell-receptors.html
 Two U.S. scientists won the  Nobel
Prize in Chemistry  for discovering receptors, proteins that
receive and transmit messages to cells, and are the basis for as
much as half of all today’s medicines.  Robert J. Lefkowitz, 69, of Duke University Medical Center
in Durham,  North Carolina , and Brian K. Kobilka, 57, of Stanford
University School of Medicine in  Palo Alto ,  California , will
share the 8 million-krona ($1.2 million) award, the  Royal
Swedish Academy of Sciences  said at a news conference today in
 Stockholm .  They received the prize for their work on “cells and
sensibility,” the academy said. The men showed receptors are
used to relay information about adrenaline, histamine and other
molecules to cells, and showed the inner workings of the largest
family of such switches known as G-protein-coupled receptors.  Lodged in the fatty envelope that surrounds cells, they are
the body’s mechanism to read its environment. Uncovering them
paved the way for more effective treatments against afflictions
ranging from allergies and heart disease to mental disorders,
and helped reveal why the impact of some drugs wanes over time.  “This speaks of how far we have come in chemistry that we
can see the intricate details of mechanisms in our bodies,”
said  Bassam Shakhashiri , the president of the American Chemical
Society and professor of chemistry at the  University of
Wisconsin , in a telephone interview. “It’s just fantastic.”  Haircut Delayed  Lefkowitz, a professor of medicine at Duke and an
investigator at the  Howard Hughes Medical Institute , said he
“didn’t have a clue” he would be in the running for the prize,
the first for Duke.  “I did not go to sleep last night waiting for this call,”
he said by telephone at the news conference. “I’m feeling very,
very excited. I was fast asleep and the phone rang and I didn’t
hear it. I wear earplugs when I sleep and my wife gave me an
elbow.”  Lefkowitz, an only child who grew up in the Bronx,  New
York , isolated eight out of nine subtypes of the most common G-
protein-coupled receptors, which regulate the body’s fight-or-
flight response. He also discovered two families of proteins
that desensitize the receptors, helping scientists understand
how drugs such as beta blockers work.  In his early research, he used radioactive material to
track the receptors, a bit of sleight of hand that allowed him
to find the whole family of receptors. His lab then revealed the
receptors’ genetic blueprint.  Portrait of Receptors  Kobilka , who was introduced to the receptors while doing
post-doctoral research in Lefkowitz’s lab, worked for more than
20 years to create a portrait of a key cell receptor in action.  “What the structure reveals is important details about how
they transmit information from outside the cell to inside the
cell,” Kobilka said on a conference call. “Structure tells how
the drugs will bind. Knowing that, it may be possible to make
drugs bind more selectively,” potentially making them more
potent with fewer side effects, he said.  Kobilka said he was shocked by the news of his  Nobel Prize ,
the 27th for Stanford, and initially “wasn’t exactly sure if it
was real.” The researcher, who doesn’t have a secretary and
generally answers his own phone, was swamped by phone calls of
congratulations that quickly overwhelmed his voice mail.  The initial discovery allowed scientists to screen
thousands of compounds in test tubes to see if they interacted
with receptors, changing the fundamental approach to drug
discovery. Kobilka’s three-dimensional imaging work has the
potential to take the technique to another level, Lefkowitz
said. Once the atomic structures are known, a computer may be
able to determine how well drugs fit into the receptor, leading
to virtual libraries that could screen millions of compounds.  Targeted Drugs  Drugs that target the molecular transmitters include the
Zantac antacid, Novartis AG’s Toprol-XL blood-pressure drug and
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s Abilify for schizophrenia.  “Knowing how they work helps us to make better drugs with
fewer side effects,” Sven Lidin, a member of the Nobel
committee for chemistry, said at the news conference.  Kobilka graduated from Yale University School of Medicine
in  New Haven ,  Connecticut . Lefkowitz holds a bachelor’s degree
from Columbia College and a master’s degree from Columbia
University’s College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York.  Annual prizes for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature were established in the will of
 Alfred Nobel , the Swedish inventor of dynamite, who died in
1896. The  Nobel Foundation  was established in 1900 and the
prizes were first handed out the following year. The Swedish
science academy chooses the chemistry and physics winners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  