-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-10-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District--  San Francisco   TWELFTH DISTRICT-SAN FRANCISCO Summary  Economic activity in the Twelfth District grew at a modest pace
during the reporting period of mid-August through late-
September. Upward price pressures remained limited overall, and
upward wage pressures remained muted. Sales of retail items rose
slightly, and demand for most business and consumer services
gained further on net. District manufacturing activity edged up.
Agricultural output was mostly steady, while activity continued
to trend up for providers of energy resources. Home demand in
the District showed continued signs of improvement, and demand
for commercial real estate was mainly stable. Financial
institutions reported overall loan demand was unchanged or up
somewhat on balance.  Wages and Prices  Price inflation remained quite limited for most final goods and
services during the reporting period. Prices increased overall
for some energy items including electricity, crude oil, and
retail gasoline. Natural  gas prices  remained near historically
low levels. Contacts noted high feed prices are passing through
to grocery stores and restaurants. Contacts in the tech sector
reported slightly lower prices of some technology-related
products. For most products and services, vigorous competition
among firms and cost-conscious purchasing behavior by consumers
continued to keep price inflation in check.  Contacts in most sectors reported very limited upward wage
pressures. Moderate wage increases in the 2 to 3 percent range
were noted for employees in some manufacturing sectors, although
lower levels of staffing were also reported. Contacts continued
to note wage gains for workers with specialized skills in the
information technology sector. Some upward pressure on wages of
skilled construction workers was noted, as well. For the
remainder of 2012, most contacts reported limited hiring plans,
suggesting that upward wage pressures will remain subdued.  Retail Trade and Services  Retail sales rose further overall. Contacts reported sales were
a bit stronger relative to the prior reporting period. Discount
chains and online retailers continued to outperform traditional
department stores. At grocery stores,  consumer spending  was soft
as shoppers continued to shift their purchasing decisions in
favor of cheaper products. Contacts reported a strong pace for
auto sales, significantly above the pace from the same period
last year. Demand for used vehicles also remained robust.  Demand for most business and consumer services gained on net.
Sales continued to grow for a wide variety of technology
services, with expectations for further rapid growth in selected
segments, such as cloud computing services. Demand for legal
services was steady. For providers of health-care services,
demand was largely stable. Demand picked up further for
restaurants and other food-service providers. Some contacts in
the District’s travel and tourism sector reported improvement in
conditions overall.  Manufacturing  District manufacturing activity edged up on balance during the
reporting period of mid-August through late-September.
Production activity remained at high levels for makers of
commercial aircraft and parts. Manufacturers of wood products
reported stronger than expected output and sales. New orders
improved somewhat for manufacturers of semiconductors and other
technology products. Demand for steel was mostly stable, albeit
at low levels, while sales of processed scrap metal fell
further, largely as a result of sustained weak demand abroad.
For petroleum refiners, capacity utilization rates increased to
the highest levels in years, as growing export sales offset
relatively weak domestic demand for refined petroleum products.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Agricultural activity was mostly stable, and extraction activity
of natural resources used for energy production continued to
expand. Contacts noted continued efforts by agricultural
businesses to increase their productivity. Reports indicated
that demand for cotton was strong. Higher grain and feed prices
prompted District livestock producers to reduce herd sizes.
Favorable weather conditions in some parts of the District
helped stabilize production. Extraction activity for petroleum
and natural gas remained at high levels or expanded a bit
further on net.  Real Estate and Construction  Home demand in the District showed continued signs of
improvement, while demand for commercial real estate was largely
unchanged. Although still well below its historical average, the
sales pace for new and existing homes picked up further in many
areas. Contacts noted that pent-up demand may spur additional
gains in coming months. Contacts reported a decrease in the
inventory of available homes and a noticeable increase in
construction activity. On the nonresidential side, contacts
observed a reduction in commercial property vacancies in parts
of the District.  Financial Institutions  District banking contacts reported that loan demand was
unchanged or up somewhat compared with the prior reporting
period. Some contacts reported that business loan demand inched
up, although some of the new activity was for refinancing rather
than expansion. Reports continued to highlight ample liquidity
and stiff competition among lenders to provide credit to well-
qualified business loan applicants. Contacts indicated that some
borrowers received multiple offers to finance projects. Demand
for  consumer credit  remained relatively strong, reflected
primarily in high lending activity for automobile and home
purchases.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 