-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-10-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND  Overview. Fifth District economic activity improved modestly
since our last report. Most manufacturing contacts reported
activity firmed somewhat. Port activity continued to expand.
Retailers reported that sales grew on balance, and non-retail
firms cited marginal revenue expansion. Lending activity
improved somewhat, although most applications continued to be
for refinancing. Residential real estate activity continued to
strengthen; however, areas of weakness remained in the District.
Tourism contacts reported healthy bookings as the summer season
ended. Commercial real estate reports were mixed for private-
sector projects and weaker for government-related projects.
Labor market reports were also mixed, with accounts of modest
increases in employment along with major layoffs and hiring
freezes. Price changes were generally small in the manufacturing
and services sectors in recent weeks.  Manufacturing. District manufacturing activity firmed somewhat
after having softened in earlier months. An auto supplier
reported that his firm’s sales continued to exceed expectations,
which required overtime and additional hiring. A manufacturer of
wallboard indicated that sales at his company rose, with the
last few weeks being the busiest this year. A manufacturer of
residential door frames said that demand in late summer was
fairly flat, but he expected sales to improve over the next six
months. In contrast, a producer of electrical components cited
very weak business conditions, which resulted in layoff
announcements and plans to close the factory at the end of this
year. According to our latest survey, growth slowed in prices of
both raw materials and finished goods over the past month.  Activity at most District ports expanded over the last few
months. Port officials reported that both import and export
activity strengthened, although one official attributed some of
the gain to increased market share. According to another
contact, the shipping season peaked earlier than in past years,
which may have been due to manufacturers and retailers moving
goods in advance of a threatened labor disruption at East Coast
ports. Nonetheless, imports were bolstered by continued demand
for commodities and components used by manufacturers. One
contact stated that exports to  China  of some commodities and
bulk goods were holding up better than expected. In addition,
exports of autos and heavy machinery to  Europe  remained strong.  Retail. Retail sales reports from our contacts were mixed, with
modest improvement on balance. In Virginia, a grocer stated that
customer counts were up, but shoppers were spending less, while
another grocery contact commented that he will be opening
several new stores by early next year. A major building supply
firm reported a significant increase in the volume of wallboard
sales; other inputs for major renovation work also picked up.
Several small retailers said that they were preserving margins
by reducing payrolls and cutting expenses. However, collections
on customer accounts have become a bigger problem, according to
one contact. Merchants remained somewhat guarded in their
outlook for spending during the holiday season. Small retailers
were conservative with inventories; they expected that their
suppliers would be flexible enough to make quick shipments if
reorders should be needed. To help push early purchases, several
big-box retailers were advertising a return of their lay-away
programs, and other merchants started offering lay-away for the
first time. In addition, a number of internet retailers were
offering an online lay-away program. District automobile sales
varied, according to dealers. A contact at a large dealership
reported high foot traffic, observing that buyers gravitated to
“the deals,” such as substantial rebates. Retail prices rose at
a somewhat slower pace in recent weeks, according to our latest
survey.  Services. Non-retail services providers reported slight gains
overall since our last report. Business activity strengthened
for professional, scientific, and technical services firms; a
contact at a  Maryland  telecommunications firm noted that demand
was strong for tech-related security services. However, there
were also reports that the possibility of government spending
cuts associated with sequestration caused firms to delay
business decisions. One industry executive commented, “We are
hoarding cash.” Healthcare firms continued to restructure to
accommodate the post-reform environment in that sector.
According to a contact at a private healthcare group, that
organization had begun shifting away from low margin, basic
services. A Virginia airport executive noted that increased
passenger traffic in recent weeks had recovered from a drop
earlier in the summer. Prices moved up more slowly at services
firms.  Finance. Lending activity improved marginally from weak levels
since our last report. One banker reported continued strength in
refinancing demand, which accounted for three out of four
commercial loan applications. A  North Carolina  banker noted
that, while most home mortgages were for refinancing,
applications were fifty percent above normal levels and over one
third were for either purchasing or building a home. Demand for
commercial loans across the District was mixed, according to
several contacts, with modest improvements coming from the
medical, legal, and other services-related segments of the
market. An official at a large bank described consumer demand as
remaining weak, with the notable exception of auto loans, while
business loans for capital equipment improved slightly. Several
bankers stated that credit standards remained tight for consumer
loans, but some easing had occurred in order to capture
attractive commercial loan applications. A commercial banker
said that uncertainty about whether a successful SBA program
would be renewed had curtailed his ability to get approval of
several viable small business loans.  Real Estate. Residential real estate activity improved since our
last report. A Realtor in the Richmond area said that closings
were up double digits over last year and prices were rising
slightly. Properties below the $200,000 range, in particular,
were selling more quickly. However, an agent in the D.C. area
indicated that housing sales in the $800,000-plus range were
rising relatively quickly, adding that the lowest inventory for
housing in eight years was pushing up prices. A Realtor in the
Fredericksburg area reported that her agency was extremely busy
for this time of year and indicated that sales were up forty
percent over last year; she expected the stronger market to
continue. Moreover, a Maryland contact mentioned that
foreclosures in central Maryland had fallen thirty percent from
the previous quarter, which bolstered housing prices. In
contrast, a report described the housing market in North
Carolina as mostly unchanged, with the exception of an
improvement in the Research Triangle. Also, a source stated that
there had been a slowdown in housing in the Hagerstown area.  Commercial real estate and construction activity remained mixed
since our last assessment. A Realtor in North Carolina stated
that both leasing and sales activity had slowed since June, with
some tenants switching to shorter leases. Another agent reported
moderate increases in office leasing, especially in suburban
locations. Several contacts in  Virginia  and West Virginia noted
increased interest from clients but few closings. A Virginia
Realtor said that retail leasing had improved, but it was “still
a bumpy road” and that leases were “taking forever to close.”
Both leasing and construction-related activity in the industrial
sector was sluggish. Several contractors reported that
government-related projects continued to weaken or decline. New
private sector projects also started to decline in recent weeks.
A large contractor in Maryland expected that few new projects
would emerge until after the election. However, a banker noted
that small developers were joining together to buy and renovate
low-priced B and C Class properties, in anticipation of an
improved real estate environment next year.  Labor Markets. We received mixed signals on labor market
activity over the last few weeks. A source from  West Virginia 
reported that the state experienced several major layoffs
related to mine closings and bankruptcies. A contact in
Hagerstown said that the local labor market continued to
recover, but at a slow pace, and that the area would lose a
major manufacturer later this year. Moreover, an auto supplier
in Virginia stated that his firm had frozen hiring and would
reduce staff through attrition. In contrast, several employment
agencies cited an increase in demand for workers, particularly
among goods-producing industries. At a North Carolina staffing
agency specializing in finance, companies were actively hiring
staff and senior level accounting and finance professionals. In
the retail sector, an industry representative mentioned that
many small retailers expected to add hours for permanent
employees during the upcoming holidays, rather than hire
seasonal workers. According to our recent surveys, average wages
in both the manufacturing and services sectors were growing at a
slightly quicker pace than a month ago.  Tourism. Hoteliers, restaurateurs, and other tourism contacts
reported stable but solid leisure business going into the autumn
season. In addition, their outlook was upbeat for late fall and
early winter. An hotelier in western Virginia stated that
business was solid, with a trend toward more last-minute leisure
bookings. A tourism contact in  Washington , D.C. reported seeing
“tour buses galore” and crowds on the mall. Tourist activity on
the outer banks of North Carolina was steady, and good
attendance was expected for upcoming music and food festivals.
Hotel and rental rates were not being discounted, although
incentives were offered for time slots that were difficult to
fill. In contrast, hotels that depend heavily on government-
sponsored bookings reported a significant drop in business.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 