-- U.S. Sets Anti-Dumping Duties on China Solar Imports
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-10-10T23:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-sets-anti-dumping-duties-on-china-solar-imports.html
The U.S. Commerce Department set
anti-dumping duties ranging from 18.32 percent to 249.96 percent
on solar-energy cells imported from  China , reducing preliminary
penalties imposed on  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and raising them slightly
on Suntech Power Holdings Co.  The duties, the result of a complaint brought by the
American unit of Bonn-based  SolarWorld AG (SWV) , may worsen trade
relations between the U.S. and China, the world’s largest
economies. The countries have sparred over government support
for clean energy as President  Barack Obama  and Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney  each pledge tough action on China ahead
of next month’s U.S. election.  “Commerce’s decision raises the industry’s chances of
reclaiming equal footing,” said Gordon Brinser, president of
SolarWorld Industries America, based in Hillsboro,  Oregon .
“Only fair competition can provide sustainable gains in
technological efficiency, cost reduction and end-user pricing.”  The Commerce Department said in a statement today that it
will impose duties of 18.32 percent on the value of Trina Solar
imports after finding its goods were sold -- or “dumped” -- in
the U.S. below cost. The department in May set 31.14 percent
preliminary penalties on the company’s merchandise. Suntech, the
world’s largest solar-power equipment maker, faces anti-dumping
duties of 31.73 percent, compared with a rate of 31.22 percent
set in May.  Producer Costs  An additional 59 Chinese companies will be subject to an
anti-dumping penalty of 25.96 percent, based on a determination
by the Commerce Department of how much below cost they were
selling their goods. All other Chinese producers will be subject
to a 249.96 percent rate to deter dumping.  Separately, the Commerce Department set higher final anti-
subsidy tariffs on Chinese producers in response to what the
U.S. said is government support that violates trade rules. It
set a rate of 15.97 percent on solar cells made by Trina, up
from a preliminary rate of 4.73 percent imposed in March, and
14.78 for those made by Suntech, up from 2.9 percent.  An anti-subsidy tariff of 15.24 percent was imposed on
solar goods from other Chinese exporters.  The U.S. International Trade Commission next month is
scheduled to determine whether China’s policies have caused U.S.
solar-energy manufacturers harm, a decision that will determine
whether the Commerce Department’s duties stand.  “I am glad the administration intends to act against
cheating by Chinese solar producers,” said Senator  Ron Wyden , a
Democrat from Oregon and chairman of the Senate Finance
subcommittee on trade, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Loophole’ Found  The decision exempts tariffs when a portion of panels is
made outside of China, leaving a potential loophole, Wyden said.  “I will be monitoring the impact of this determination
closely and will pursue additional measures if necessary to
protect American manufacturers and workers,” he said.  Penalties on imports have split the U.S. solar industry,
pitting a group of manufacturers led by SolarWorld against
developers and installers of the goods, who benefit from lower-
priced imports.  SolarWorld’s Brinser told the U.S. ITC on Oct. 3 that the
Chinese government has provided unfair support for its domestic
solar-manufacturing industry, leading to a price collapse that
has caused U.S. plants to shut.  Opponents of the complaint including SunEdison LLC, a
subsidiary of  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR) , say SolarWorld
failed to adapt to a rapidly changing business climate, marked
by a decline in U.S. government incentives and increased
competition from other energy sources including natural gas.  “Trade litigation alone is not enough,” said  Rhone Resch ,
president of the Solar Energy Industries Association in an e-
mailed statement. “There is a need to build consensus on
acceptable forms of government support for industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  