-- U.S. Forecasts Record Heating Prices as Winter Returns
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-10-10T19:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-forecasts-record-heating-prices-as-winter-returns.html
U.S. households that use heating oil
will face record prices this winter as weather forecasters
predict colder temperatures in the Northeast that will drive up
demand, according to a government report.  The Energy Information Administration, which tracks and
analyzes energy data, projects households will spend 19 percent
more on average for heating oil and 15 percent more for natural
gas from Oct. 1 to March 31, the period covered in its short-
term energy and winter fuels outlook released today.  “It is going to be colder than last year and as a result
of that, heating bills are going to be higher,” said  Adam Sieminski , administrator of EIA, in  Washington  today.  About half of U.S. households use natural gas as their main
heating source. While only 6 percent of U.S. homes use heating
oil, 80 percent of families that use the fuel are clustered in
the northeastern part of the country, according to the EIA.  The EIA report says its prediction for higher heating bills
stems from an expected return to normal winter temperatures east
of the  Rocky Mountains  compared with last winter’s unusual
warmth.  Geopolitical Turmoil  “There has been a trend towards warmer weather so if we
end up with somewhat above normal temperatures rather than just
slightly below, that would reduce fuel oil needs and presumably
would lead to better balance in the markets and somewhat lower
prices,” Sieminski said. Alternatively, colder weather or more
geopolitical turmoil could raise costs higher than anticipated,
he said.  Predictions of higher energy costs may weigh on President
 Barack Obama ’s re-election chances by compounding voters’
economic anxiety in the last few weeks before the Nov. 6
election.  The agency expects that households relying on heating oil
will spend an average of about $407 more this winter, a 19
percent increase over last year, as a result of higher prices
and consumption. The average expenditures are expected to reach
record levels, according to the EIA.  “This is going to be a very tough winter for many poor
families,” said Mark Wolfe, executive director of the National
Energy Assistance Directors’  Association , a Washington-based
group that advocates for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance
Program.  Funds Cut  Congress cut funding for LIHEAP to about $3.5 billion in
fiscal year 2012, a $1.6 billion drop from two years earlier,
leaving less federal assistance for families in need, according
to the group.  Rising heating costs are also likely to hit middle-class
households, which could ripple through the economy as families
have less money to spend for other essentials, Wolfe said.  John Felmy , chief economist for the  American Petroleum
Institute , a Washington-based oil and gas lobbying group, said
higher crude oil prices translates to higher heating oil costs.  The group, whose members include  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  based in
Irving,  Texas , has criticized Obama for not doing enough to
promote domestic development of oil and gas.  While oil prices are set on a global market, more U.S.
production would help the economy and reduce reliance on oil
imports, Felmy said.  The EIA report does project higher U.S. oil production,
which could help Obama refute Republican claims he has been
overly focused on developing renewable sources of energy rather
than on extracting cheaper fossil fuels.  Production Increase  The EIA expects U.S. total  crude oil production  to average
6.3 million barrels per day in 2012, an increase of 700,000
barrels from last year. In 2013, U.S. domestic crude oil
production is projected to reach 6.9 million barrels a day, the
highest point since 1993.  U.S. output is rising from drilling in the North Dakota
Bakken shale formation and in the Permian Basin and Eagle Ford
areas in Texas.  Crude  oil prices  are projected to decline as production
increases. Brent oil will average $111 a barrel in the fourth
quarter of 2012 and fall to $103 a barrel in 2013, EIA said.  The EIA also projects that gasoline will cost $3.65 per
gallon on average in 2012 and fall to $3.44 per gallon in 2013.  Natural gas inventories at the end of September were 3.7
trillion cubic feet, or 8 percent more than at the same time
last year, according to EIA.  The agency, which is a division of the U.S. Energy
Department, said Henry Hub spot prices will average $2.71 per
million British thermal units in 2012 and rise to $3.35 per
million Btu in 2013.  Henry Hub  in Erath,  Louisiana , is a
benchmark for the fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  