-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-10-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK  Economic activity in the Second District has held steady since
the last report. Prices of finished goods and services have
generally been stable. The labor market has shown further signs
of softening, as fewer business contacts report that they are
adding workers, and a major employment agency describes hiring
activity as sluggish. Retailers, including auto dealers, note
some leveling off in sales activity following increases. Tourism
activity has generally held steady at a high level, though there
were some indications of softening in mid-September. Residential
real estate markets have shown further signs of improvement.
Office markets have shown some signs of slackening, but
industrial markets have picked up modestly. Finally, bankers
report increased loan demand, except on consumer loans, steady
to tighter credit standards, and lower delinquency rates on
commercial loans and mortgages.  Consumer Spending  Retailers report that sales activity has remained flat in recent
weeks. A major retail chain reports that sales in the region
were sluggish in August and especially in September, running
well below comparable 2011 levels. Some of the weakness is
attributed to unseasonably mild weather, which dampened sales of
seasonal merchandise. A major mall in upstate New York describes
sales activity as “stagnant”, with sales flat to down slightly
from a year ago in August and September. The pricing environment
is described as quite promotional, and acquisition costs of
goods are characterized as mostly stable to declining modestly.
Auto dealers in upstate New York report steady sales activity.
New vehicle sales were up 6-9 percent from a year earlier in
August but are projected to be flat to up slightly in September.
Sales of used cars have been mixed since the last report, while
dealers’ service departments note some slowing in business.
Wholesale and retail credit conditions remain favorable.  Tourism activity has been steady at a fairly robust level since
the last report, despite hints of weakness in mid-September. A
trade association survey conducted in September indicated that
70 percent of hoteliers across New York State report that
business over Labor Day weekend was at least as good as in 2011.
Similarly, occupancy rates and room rates at Buffalo hotels are
reported to be running well ahead of 2011 levels.  Manhattan 
hotel occupancy rates were little changed at slightly over 90
percent in August, with room rates continuing to run a modest 2
percent ahead of a year ago. Anecdotal reports for September
suggest that business remained strong in the early part of the
month but tapered off a bit at mid-month. Similarly, weekly
attendance and revenues at Broadway theaters were running ahead
of comparable 2011 levels in August and early September but
slipped well below year-earlier levels for the third week of the
month. Finally,  consumer confidence  fell in August and was
little changed at a low level in September, according to the
Conference Board’s monthly survey of residents of the Middle
Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa).  Construction and Real Estate  Residential real estate across the District has continued to
improve. Housing markets in metropolitan Buffalo reportedly
flattened out in August but picked up sharply in September.
Northern New Jersey’s housing market has shown further modest
signs of improvement, and there has been a sustained pickup in
rental apartment construction, as builders appear to see a
persistent shift toward renting.  Home prices  across northern New
Jersey appear to recovering gradually--an industry expert notes
that foreclosures and distress sales are no longer pushing down
prices of other properties, though they are dampening any
increase. Manhattan’s co-op and condo market has remained
stable--both in terms of sales activity and prices. The upper
end of the market has been relatively strong, partly fueled by
foreign buyers. Market conditions are reported to have
strengthened in  Brooklyn  and especially Queens in the third
quarter, while Long Island’s housing market is weak but
stabilizing. New York City’s apartment rental market remains
robust: rents have decelerated a bit in recent months but are
still estimated to be rising at a 6-8 percent annual pace.  Commercial real estate markets showed signs of softening in the
third quarter. In particular, office vacancy rates in
metropolitan Syracuse,  Albany , northern  New Jersey , Westchester
and Fairfield counties climbed to their highest levels in a
number of years, while asking rents were flat to down slightly.
Office vacancy rates also edged up in Manhattan, after drifting
down over the first half of 2012. Sluggish leasing demand from
financial and other firms is reported to be more than offsetting
strong leasing demand from tech firms. A substantial amount of
 office space  is scheduled to come onto the Lower Manhattan
market in early 2013.  Industrial markets have strengthened: vacancy rates have
declined modestly since the beginning of the year in northern
New Jersey, Westchester and Fairfield counties, and the Buffalo
and Syracuse areas; but rates have held steady in  Long Island 
and metropolitan Rochester. Industrial rents have begun to rise
modestly across most of the District for the first time in a
number of years.  Other Business Activity  Manufacturers across the District indicate some further
softening in general conditions since the last report, whereas
contacts in most other sectors report that activity held steady.
Both manufacturers and other contacts report little change in
input price pressures since the last report, though a number of
manufacturing contacts say they plan to hike selling prices in
the months ahead.  Labor market conditions across the District have been tepid
since the last report. Business contacts generally indicate that
they have scaled back hiring activity in recent months, and
almost as many business contacts say they plan to reduce as
increase employment in the months ahead. A major  New York City 
employment agency specializing in office jobs reports that
hiring activity remained sluggish after Labor Day--a time when
recruitment activity typically picks up. Moreover, the weakness
is reported to be fairly broad-based, though most evident in the
finance sector.  Financial Developments  Small to medium sized banks in the District report increased
demand for all loan types except consumer loans, where demand
was unchanged. Bankers also report increased demand for
refinancing. Bankers report some tightening in credit standards
for the household sector: roughly one in five bankers report
tighter standards for consumer loans and residential mortgages,
while no respondent reports easing standard in any individual
loan category. Respondents indicate a decrease in spreads of
loan rates over costs of funds for all loan categories except
for consumer loans. The decrease in spreads was most prevalent
in commercial mortgages. Respondents also indicate a decrease in
the average deposit rate. Finally, bankers report some decrease
in delinquency rates for commercial and industrial loans and
commercial mortgages but no change for consumer loans and
residential mortgages.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 