-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-10-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s First District--  Boston .  FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON  Reports from business contacts in the First District indicate
the region’s economy is expanding at a modest pace. Most retail
and manufacturing contacts report sales or revenue gains from a
year earlier, although the manufacturers say growth is slower
than earlier in the year and some have seen actual declines.
Consulting and advertising firms are generally upbeat, with
results depending on specific client industries. Residential
real estate contacts note increases in sales and only small
changes in median sale prices. Commercial real estate leasing
activity has slowed somewhat, while investment conditions remain
positive. With the exception of a consulting firm that has
expanded recently and a manufacturer citing especially strong
growth, responding firms are doing only modest hiring. While
contacts in most industries mention the upcoming election, so-
called fiscal cliff, and  Europe  as risk factors increasing
uncertainty, it is only in commercial real estate leasing that
respondents say current activity levels are measurably damped by
such concerns.  Retail and Tourism  First District retailers contacted for this round indicate that
sales through mid to late September are slightly above 2011.
Year-over-year sales increases in recent months range from low
single-digit to high single-digit percentage gains, although one
retailer reports that its 2012 sales to date are 2 percent to 3
percent below last year’s. Furniture sales have picked up after
declining during the summer, while spending on apparel and
household items remains strong. Contacts express some concern
that consumer sentiment could be negatively affected by domestic
politics and the fiscal cliff, which increases their uncertainty
about how well the end-of-year 2012 holiday sales season will
turn out. While such concerns lead retailers to expect the  U.S.
economy  will remain flat over the next 6 to 8 months,
respondents are nonetheless cautiously optimistic that their
2012 revenues will end up slightly ahead of 2011 levels.  The Boston  tourism industry  continues to benefit from a rebound
in domestic and international business travel, although the
leisure sector has seen a small drop in advance bookings
compared to six months ago. The tourism industry has slightly
downgraded its overall forecast for 2012, but this year’s
performance looks to be the industry’s best since 1999-2000.
Expectations are that Boston tourism will be strong again in
2013, with revenues rising slightly from 2012.  Manufacturing and Related Services  Discussions with manufacturing contacts in the First District
paint a picture of an economy that is growing slowly but, on
net, still growing. About half the respondents report a
substantial slowdown in growth or outright fall in sales in the
most recent period compared with a year earlier. Three contacts
supplying equipment to factories note weakness in the
semiconductor industry, which they say reflects its
idiosyncratic cycle and not the macro economy. A contact in the
toy business reports that orders for Christmas are coming later
and later in the year, partly because lead times have shrunk and
firms can order in September for November delivery.  Not all responding firms report softening. For example, a
contact at a pharmaceutical firm says the company’s growth is
strong. The firm plans to hire 1,000 people over the next year,
which represents a 20 percent increase in headcount; the hires
will be mostly in sales and marketing.  For the most part, firms reporting weakness indicate it has yet
to affect either hiring or investment substantially. Only about
one-quarter of respondents say they are actually cutting staff;
for one firm, the layoffs are in Europe and another firm
attributes them at least partly to increased productivity.
Several contacts report that their firms are re-evaluating their
benefits structures as a way to conserve cash. No contact
reports making any adjustments or even projecting any
adjustments to their capital spending plans. Indeed, one contact
at a semiconductor equipment maker says they are maintaining
their long-term investment plans despite quarter-on-quarter
sales declines on the order of 20 percent in the third quarter
which are expected to continue in the fourth.  In general, firms remain somewhat tentative about 2013, although
this is partly because they are currently engaged in their
annual “planning cycles” for 2013. One contact in the industrial
distribution business says he expects they will plan for 1
percent to 2 percent growth in 2013, in line with Q3 this year;
by contrast, their 2011 plan for 2012 assumed 5 percent to 6
percent sales growth. One contact in the publishing business
says that they will “continue to thrive on low single-digit
organic growth.” Many contacts say that slow growth is the “new
normal.”  Selected Business Services  Consulting and advertising contacts in the First District report
a generally positive, although not exuberant, third quarter.
Only one contact cites flat revenues, while the others note
varying levels of growth largely determined by the prospects of
their respective client bases. Marketing and advertising
contacts report weaker conditions than consulting firms. They
note a large degree of uncertainty in the market as well as a
shift in demand towards services focused on social media and e-
commerce. Demand for health care consulting services has
skyrocketed due to “unprecedented” levels of merger and
acquisition activity among health care providers and the need
for improved efficiency as a result of the ACA. At the same
time, firms focused on the pharmaceutical industry have
experienced slow growth because their clients have been hurt by
blockbuster drugs losing patent protection and cost pressures
from governments. Economic consulting remains strong, reflecting
high levels of complex high-stakes litigation; management and
strategy consulting contacts cite a recent upswing in business.  Contacts report little to no cost increases, with the exception
of higher travel costs, and are keeping their prices relatively
unchanged. Most contacts record some hiring, mostly in the low
single digits, although one contact in government policy
consulting has increased staff by 25 percent since last year to
address a large backlog and ongoing demand growth. Plans for
future hiring are modest.  Most contacts expect a continuation of current growth trends for
the rest of 2012 and are more bullish about 2013. Respondents
express concern about factors with the potential to slow the
macro economy, such as political uncertainty, the fiscal cliff,
and Europe. Several firms rely heavily on  government spending 
and are thus especially concerned with the fiscal situation and
upcoming election. Nevertheless, no respondent expects another
recession and the overall tone is cautiously optimistic.  Commercial Real Estate  Contacts across the First District report that commercial real
estate fundamentals have been basically flat in recent weeks.
Leasing activity is said to be down in Boston as firms say
political uncertainty makes them reluctant to make leasing
commitments in advance of the national election. At the same
time, the credit environment remains favorable, as interest
rates on commercial real estate loans remain very low by
historical standards. One contact notes that the supply of high-
quality commercial properties for sale has declined recently,
and hypothesizes that owners have nowhere better to park their
money right now. Construction activity is proceeding as expected
on large commercial projects in Boston. While the multifamily
sector remains strong across the region, with numerous apartment
buildings under construction in Boston in particular, one
contact surmises that additional apartment projects under
discussion may be delayed or shelved pending rent discovery once
current projects come on line.  Contacts express a mix of cautious optimism and generalized
uncertainty concerning the outlook; the fiscal cliff and Europe
are noted as key risks to growth. Some contacts mention a
longer-run concern regarding the consequences of an inevitable
eventual increase in  interest rates ; the risk is that net
operating incomes will not increase enough to offset increased
financing costs when loans currently being underwritten at very
low rates require refinancing.  Residential Real Estate  Year-over-year sales growth continued in August in both single-
family home and condominium markets throughout the First
District. According to contacts, low interest rates and
affordable prices contributed to improving sales figures, along
with increases in residential rents. Several contacts report
improving conditions for borrowers, but many contacts say that
qualifying for a mortgage remains difficult. As for prices,
contacts in the region report mixed movements in median sale
prices, with some areas experiencing modest price appreciation
and others moderate depreciation. In the Greater Boston area,
contacts say a slight decline in the median sale price was
unexpected in light of significant demand and dwindling
inventory levels; they attribute the decline to significant
increases in the sales of low to mid-tier properties. Throughout
the region, inventory continues to decline. Contacts say they
fear declining inventory will discourage buyers searching for
homes as well as potential sellers who may not be able to find
another well-kept property. Increasingly, properties in “move-in
condition” receive multiple bids, sometimes above original
asking prices.  Contacts expect sales to continue to grow on a year-over-year
basis in the next several months. Nonetheless, many note that
the recovery remains fragile and could be derailed by
deterioration in economic conditions. Declining inventory levels
also remains a concern, but several contacts expect an influx of
sellers in the spring market. Median sale prices are expected to
remain flat or improve modestly in the coming months.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board.
 