-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-10-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  ELEVENTH DISTRICT--DALLAS  The Eleventh District economy expanded at a moderate pace over
the past six weeks. Energy activity remained strong, and
construction and real estate activity picked up as housing
demand strengthened. Demand for business services improved
slightly, and transportation services activity continued to
expand. Reports on manufacturing activity were mixed. Growth in
retail and auto sales slowed over the reporting period, but
Eleventh District sales continued to outperform the national
average, according to respondents. Lenders noted steady loan
demand. Agricultural conditions improved slightly. Price and
wage pressures were modest over the reporting period, and
employment levels continued to edge up. Many respondents across
industries said continued uncertainty about upcoming elections
was clouding outlooks.  Prices  Most reporting firms said prices were steady. Several contacts
in the transportation services industry noted higher diesel
prices led to higher costs. Shipping firms expect higher ground
and air prices as a result. Airline industry contacts noted that
business travelers were very price sensitive and soft demand was
keeping a lid on fares. Food and cattle producers noted price
increases due to continued commodity price pressures.  The price of WTI rose during the reporting period, reaching
nearly $99 per barrel. Natural  gas prices  remained depressed.
Retail and on-highway prices of both gasoline and diesel ended
the reporting period slightly higher. Contacts noted that
Hurricane Isaac had little impact on energy pricing. The prices
of petrochemical products were flat to slightly up over the past
six weeks.  Labor Market  Employment held steady or increased at most firms. Shortages of
truck drivers continued to be reported in several industries.
Accounting and legal firms noted increased hiring and said
compensation has risen this year. Staffing firms reported
additional hiring in response to high levels of demand, but
there were no reports of pressures on wages or salaries. Skill
shortages remained an issue for energy services firms, although
some large firms noted slight easing. Retailers said hiring
increased since the last report and expected holiday hiring to
be stronger than last year.  Manufacturing  Overall demand for construction-related products was mixed over
the last six weeks. Producers of stone, clay, glass and lumber
reported steady to slightly increased demand, with particular
strength in residential activity. Fabricated metals contacts
said growth in demand had slowed. Reports from primary metals
contacts were mixed, although a large electrical wire
manufacturer said demand in August was stronger than in any
other month this year. Across the board, contacts noted
uncertainty in their outlooks due to the upcoming election.  High-tech manufacturers said sales growth slowed modestly over
the reporting period. Most contacts attributed the slowdown to
weakened international demand and lower forecasts for world
economic growth. Weaker demand was noted across a broad range of
products, including industrial, computers and communications
infrastructure. Contacts expect demand to remain weak through
year-end.  Demand for paper products increased in line with normal seasonal
patterns. Food producers noted increased business over the last
thirty days due to a slight pickup in consumer demand. Reports
from most transportation equipment manufacturers were mixed;
aviation manufacturing orders were down slightly while other
firms noted flat to increased activity.  Petrochemicals producers said demand remained mostly flat since
the last report. Ethylene production fell to a three-year low as
plants went offline for maintenance and improvement. Ethylene
and polyethylene margins remained relatively stable and largely
healthy, although exports softened. Gulf Coast refiners said
operating rates remained over 90 percent, and strong export
demand was preventing a buildup in domestic inventories.
Refinery margins rose to the highest level since 2008 in August
and have since remained very healthy.  Retail Sales  Retail sales growth softened over the reporting period, and
sales are up slightly year-over-year. Sales in the Eleventh
District continue to outperform the nation, according to two
national retailers. Contacts noted that holiday hiring has begun
or will begin soon, and hours worked are up from the previous
report. Commodity input costs are easing, but the drought has
caused prices for grains and feedstock to rise. The outlook for
the rest of the retail quarter, which ends in October, is mixed
but contacts are cautiously optimistic for the fourth quarter.  Automobile sales were flat over the past six weeks but are up
year-over-year. Contacts expect a modest increase in selling
prices with the 2013 models due out soon. Outlooks are generally
uncertain because of the election and  consumer confidence , but
fourth quarter is expected to be better year-over-year.  Services  Staffing firms said demand growth slowed slightly but is
expected to turn around in coming weeks. Demand from the  steel
industry  was very strong, with contracts extending through 2014.
Engineering and mortgage processor jobs were in high demand,
while the need for oil workers has “become less crazy.” There
were fewer requests for workers in the plastics industry.
Outlooks remained fairly optimistic.  Accounting firms noted a slight increase in activity. Demand for
insurance and audit services experienced positive growth, while
that for advisory and tax services was flat to slightly down.
Demand for energy-related services remained strong. Legal
contacts said overall demand for services was not much changed
since the last report. However, activity related to energy,
labor-services and real estate had increased. Outlooks were
cautiously optimistic.  Reports from transportation service firms were mostly positive.
Railroad contacts said volumes picked up since the last report.
Motor vehicle shipments continue to be strong, and contacts
noted healthy volumes of some construction-related products,
including lumber and wood and crushed stone. Container volumes
continued to increase and shipping firms said small parcel
volume growth had recently accelerated, led by improvements in
wholesale and retail trade. Air cargo volumes continued to
decline due to weakness in the international sector.  Airlines noted softer passenger demand since the last report,
citing weakness in Europe and  Asia . Respondents were cautious in
their outlooks, and slightly more pessimistic than six weeks
ago.  Construction and Real Estate  Single-family housing activity continued to increase at a good
pace over the past six weeks. Contacts said new and existing
home sales outpaced expectations, and new home construction
activity increased. Inventories of both new and existing homes
remained tight, leading to price gains. Apartment construction
picked up since the last report, and outlooks for the
multifamily sector remain quite optimistic. Leasing activity in
the office and industrial real estate sectors remained steady at
a good pace. While commercial construction remains at low
levels, contacts expect activity to improve.  Financial Services  Overall, financial firms reported flat loan demand. Auto loan
demand, particularly for new autos, was a bright spot, and
energy-related lending remained strong. Business lending and
commercial real estate lending were weak. Loan pricing remained
very competitive and has squeezed profit margins. Loan quality
continued to improve as delinquency rates trended down and new
loans are granted to more creditworthy customers. Deposits kept
growing even as rates remained very low. Outlooks were mixed,
and contacts said fiscal worries were negatively impacting loan
demand.  Energy  Respondents at energy-related firms said business remained
strong with long lead times, although the District active rig
count declined modestly over the reporting period. Producers
concentrated their production on oil, as the prices of both
natural gas and natural gas liquids remain very low. Outlooks
were essentially flat. Activity was robust but there is little
hope for further improvement through the end of the year.  Agriculture  The District remained largely in drought, although scattered
rainfall improved soil moisture conditions in several areas.
Crops were mostly in fair to good shape. Production is expected
to be better than last year--when the drought was much more
severe in the Eleventh District--but below average because of
ongoing dry conditions. Grain prices remained high due to the
Midwest drought, adversely affecting  Texas ’ large livestock
sector as feed costs reached record highs.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 