-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-10-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  SEVENTH DISTRICT--CHICAGO  Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District continued to
expand in late August and early September, but again at a slow
pace. However, contacts remained guardedly optimistic that
conditions would improve; noting that at least some of the
uncertainty surrounding the outlook was likely to be resolved
following the November election. Growth in consumer spending was
little changed, while business spending increased at a slower
rate. Manufacturing activity edged lower, and growth in
construction moderated. Credit conditions continued to improve
gradually. Cost pressures increased some, due in large part to
higher food and energy prices. The drought led to an earlier
start than normal for the harvest, and corn and soybean prices
moved down a bit.  Consumer spending. Growth in consumer spending was little
changed in late August and September following a slight pick-up
in the previous reporting period. Sales of back-to-school items
were somewhat below retailers’ expectations despite higher store
traffic volumes. Contacts noted that the rise in gasoline prices
had further deterred consumers from increasing discretionary
spending. Retailers lowered their expectations for the holiday
shopping season, although they still expect holiday sales to
match last year’s pace. Auto sales increased in August before
moderating some in September. Consumers responded strongly to
model year-end incentives, depleting inventories of 2012 models,
and also benefitted from easing auto credit conditions.  Business spending. Business spending continued to increase
slowly in late August and September. A number of contacts
reported that firms were delaying hiring and capital expenditure
decisions until they were more certain about the outlook for
federal tax and spending policies. That said, some capital
expenditures were proceeding as planned, particularly on
software and equipment. Inventories were generally indicated to
be at comfortable levels. Labor market conditions were weaker on
balance. The District unemployment rate edged up and hiring
remained selective. A recruiting firm indicated that overall
demand for their services was effectively flat at last year’s
levels. Demand was greater in areas such as health care,
engineering, accounting, information technology, and skilled
manufacturing trades where firms are having difficulty finding
qualified candidates. Several manufacturers reported stepping up
training programs and increasing pay to meet staffing needs in a
number of skilled trades.  Construction/real estate. Growth in construction moderated some
from the previous reporting period. Homebuilders indicated that
new single-family construction continued to rise at a slow but
steady pace, while multi-family construction was stronger by
comparison. Loan standards for residential development remained
tight, and many homebuyers also continued to face tight lending
standards. Home prices edged higher, despite a rise in short
sales. Nonresidential construction increased at a slower rate.
Contacts indicated that new projects were progressing at a
reduced pace; some also suggested that many firms were putting
off investment decisions until after the November election.
Elevated vacancy rates remained a drag on new commercial
construction, and contacts noted that bank lending for
investment properties continued to be limited.  Manufacturing. Manufacturing production edged lower in late
August and September. Contacts reported that new orders had
slowed considerably from earlier in the year and that order
backlogs were coming down. Nonetheless, a number of contacts
also indicated that quoting activity for next year had picked
up, suggesting to them that the recent slowdown may be a pause
due to the upcoming election and uncertain fiscal situation.
Although the level of activity remained strong, demand for heavy
equipment softened over the reporting period, largely reflecting
further declines in the mining sector and a slower expansion of
rental fleets. Exporters generally noted weaker demand outside
of North America, particularly from  Europe  and Asia. Capacity
utilization in the steel industry was steady, while steel
service center inventories increased slightly. In contrast, the
auto industry continued to be a source of strength, and
manufacturers of building materials reported that activity had
picked up with the recent improvement in the housing sector.  Banking/finance. Credit conditions continued to improve over the
reporting period, with both credit spreads and market volatility
decreasing. Banking contacts reported continued weak demand for
business loans. While loan pricing was roughly unchanged,
contacts cited greater demand for more flexible structures and
longer financing terms. Standards continued to ease on C&I
loans, although conventional financing remained difficult to
obtain for many small businesses. Asset quality improved
further, surpassing the expectations of some contacts. An
exception was agricultural lending, particularly the livestock
sector, where the impact of the drought on feed costs is putting
stress on operators’ balance sheets. Consumer loan demand was
again limited with moderate increases in auto lending and
mortgage refinancing, as auto loan standards continued to ease
and mortgage rates moved lower.  Prices/costs. Cost pressures increased some in late August and
September, primarily due to a rise in food and energy prices.
Contacts also reported increases in the prices for construction
materials like lumber and drywall, while most metals prices were
steady. Wholesale food and energy price pressures rose, and
retail contacts noted an increase in pass-through to consumers.
Wage pressures remained moderate, although some upward pressure
on wages for high skilled positions was cited. A few contacts
also reported upward pressure on healthcare costs.  Agriculture. The corn and soybean harvest began a few weeks
earlier than normal across the District, as plants were dry due
to the drought. In some areas, late rains helped produce higher-
than-anticipated yields, but these made only a small dent in the
large drought-related losses. Crop quality also was an issue in
parts of the District. The drop in crop volume hurt grain
elevators relatively more than crop farmers, as payments from
crop insurance and sales at high prices offset much of the loss
in farm income from the drought. However, given insurers’
limited processing capacity and the large number of claims,
already existing delays in crop insurance payments are likely to
get worse. Corn and soybean prices eased down from their peaks,
providing a bit of relief for livestock producers, though most
operations remained unprofitable. Milk and cattle prices moved
higher, while hog prices fell. Many hog facilities are operating
below capacity, pointing to future reductions in supplies of
pork.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 