-- U.S. Mortgage Fraud Initiative Included Bush-Era Case
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-11T18:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-mortgage-fraud-initiative-data-included-older-cases.html
The announcement from the Obama
administration was that a yearlong crackdown on mortgage fraud
netted charges against 530 suspects in the year ending Sept. 30.  In fact, the list included a case filed two years before
President  Barack Obama  was elected.  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said at a news conference
in Washington Oct. 9 that the initiative ran from Oct. 1, 2011,
to Sept. 30, 2012, and resulted in “285 federal criminal
indictments and informations against 530 defendants for
allegedly victimizing more than 73,000 American homeowners --and
inflicting losses in excess of $1 billion.”  A sampling of cases incorporated in the data cited by
Holder shows those numbers include charges filed as early as
2006, when George W. Bush was still president.  Cases filed before the start of the initiative were
included because some type of “law enforcement action”
occurred during the yearlong period, according to William Carter, a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Those actions could include indictments, convictions and
sentencings, he said.  ‘Bigger Problem’  “There is no attempt to fudge the numbers or make it look
like it was a bigger problem than it was,” Carter said.
“Through our intelligence, we saw this as a rising problem and
we’re trying to get ahead of it.”  The “Distressed Homeowner Initiative” was spearheaded by
the FBI, which began to recognize a sharp increase in frauds
aimed at struggling homeowners in the years following the 2008
housing crisis, Kevin Perkins, the FBI’s associate deputy
director, said at the Oct. 9 news conference.  The information used to compile the results from the
initiative came from an FBI survey of the agencies involved in
the Mortgage Fraud Working Group.  The Justice Department didn’t provide a complete list of
the 285 cases.  Of eight cases the department pointed to as being recent,
two were filed before Oct. 1, 2011, the date cited by Holder as
the start of the fraud crackdown.  One involving a Chicago lawyer convicted of participating
in 102 fraudulent mortgage bailout transactions was filed in
October 2006. Norton Helton, the lawyer, was sentenced on
Jan. 18 to 15 years in prison.  U.S. Attorneys  In another 10 cases publicized by individual U.S. attorney
offices as being part of the initiative, six were filed in 2009
and 2010.  One fraudulent-loan case against operators of a mortgage
brokerage, an attorney and legal staffer was filed in Trenton,
New Jersey, on July 20, 2009.  Charges against one of the defendants in the case were
dismissed two years ago. Four others pleaded guilty this year to
assorted charges including wire-fraud conspiracy and tax
evasion. Another defendant was convicted at trial in March of
conspiracy and money laundering.  In a case involving falsified loan documents in  Washington ,
the defendant pleaded guilty to a conspiracy charge about two
weeks before the initiative began. She was sentenced to 40
months in prison in January.  Politics Denied  Holder said Oct. 9 that the timing of the announcement,
less than a month from the 2012 presidential election, had
nothing to do with politics.  “The notion that this is a campaign event -- I mean,
there’s a logical break,” Holder said. “This thing started
with the fiscal year last year and ends with the fiscal year
September 30. So we’re now reporting on what happened over the
past fiscal year. That’s what this is all about.”  Adora Andy, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department,
didn’t respond to e-mail and telephone requests for comment.  The Oct. 9 press conference was meant to draw attention to
the issue that has become a growing problem on the FBI’s radar,
Carter said.  “We want to get the word out to the public that these
fraudsters are out there,” he said.  The FBI also released a  public service announcement  with
Tim DeKay, an actor from the television series “White Collar,”
warning about fraud schemes “that target Americans desperate to
modify loans and avoid mortgage foreclosures.”  Fraud Cases  In 2010, fewer than 4 percent of the FBI’s mortgage fraud
cases involved distressed homeowner fraud, Perkins said at the
press conference. This year, that number has risen to 20
percent.  As the Obama administration rolled out plans aimed at
increasing mortgage modifications to keep people in their homes,
the number of fraud schemes targeting those same homeowners
began to increase, Shaun Donovan, the Housing and Urban
Development Department secretary, said Oct. 9 at the press
conference.  Typical schemes involved promises to homeowners that
foreclosures could be prevented by payment of a fee. As part of
the scams, “investors” purchase the mortgage or the titles of
homes are transferred to those taking part in the fraud,
resulting in homeowners losing their property.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  