-- U.S. Sent Forces to Jordan on Risk of Syrian War Spillover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-10-10T13:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-sent-forces-to-jordan-on-risk-of-syrian-war-spillover-1-.html
The U.S. sent military advisers to
 Jordan  and offered assistance to Turkey to help prepare for
humanitarian and possible military spillover from the war in
neighboring Syria, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said.  The U.S. is helping Jordan to build a headquarters that can
be used to manage the effects of the Syrian crisis, Panetta said
after defense ministers concluded a two-day meeting of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization in Brussels. Syrian chemical and
biological weapons continue to concern the U.S. and are being
monitored from Jordan, he said.  “We have been working with Jordan for a period of time,”
said Panetta, without elaborating or giving precise figures for
the number of personnel deployed. U.S. advisers are helping
Jordanians “to try to develop their own military and
operational capabilities in the event of any contingency,” he
said.  The U.S. acknowledgment that it sent military personnel to
Jordan comes amid intensified fighting in  Syria  that threatens
to drag neighbors into the conflict. NATO yesterday praised
Turkish restraint in responding to Syrian mortar fire, after
five people were killed when a shell from across the border
landed in a Turkish town. The alliance pledged to support Turkey
if it’s attacked.  Rock Quarry  About 150 U.S. military planners were dispatched to an old
rock quarry north of Amman, the  New York  Times reported today,
citing unidentified officers familiar with the operation. The
team is focusing on helping Jordan accommodate the 180,000
Syrian refugees that have fled across the kingdom’s northern
border, the report said.  Jordan, a traditional U.S. ally, last month issued calls
for international help to handle the flow of Syrian refugees.
Syrian and Jordanian guards have clashed at their border.  Turkey ’s top general today warned of a tougher response if
Syrian shells continue to land on Turkish soil following six
days of retaliatory barrages by his forces against President
Bashar al-Assad’s army.  “If it continues, we will make a stronger response,” the
NTV television website quoted General Necdet Ozel as saying
about the shelling. “We retaliated immediately, we also
inflicted losses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  