-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-10-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND  Business activity expanded in the Fourth District since our last
report, although the rate of growth remains modest. On balance,
manufacturing output rose. In the real estate sector,
nonresidential construction picked up, while reports on single-
family housing starts were mixed. Sales of existing family homes
increased. Retailers and auto dealers saw a modest improvement
in sales during August and September on a year-over-year basis.
Shale gas activity continued at a robust pace, while coal
production fell below prior-year levels. The slowdown in freight
transport volume, which began in the second quarter, has abated.
And the demand for business and consumer credit moved slightly
higher.  Little net hiring was reported across industry sectors. We heard
a number of reports that recruiting qualified workers for open
positions remains difficult. Staffing-firm representatives said
that the number of  job openings  and placements has slowed during
the past six weeks. Vacancies were found primarily in healthcare
and manufacturing. Wage pressures are contained. Input prices
were stable, apart from increases in some agricultural
commodities and petroleum-based products.  Manufacturing. District factories reported that production
levels were stable or increased during the past six weeks, while
new orders weakened. Rising production was mainly limited to
goods sold to the construction, energy, and transportation
sectors. Compared to prior-year levels, output was higher for a
majority of our contacts. Several producers pointed to a rise in
inventories, but said that they are manageable. The outlook by
manufacturers was mixed. Steel producers and service centers
reported that shipping volume was flat or down and they
continued to reduce their inventory. A seasonal pickup that
typically begins in September has yet to materialize. Several
contacts noted that competition (volume and pricing) from
offshore producers has intensified. Steel producers do not
expect market conditions to change appreciably in the upcoming
months. District auto production recovered in August on a month-
over-month basis, as auto plants returned to normal production
schedules. Compared to a year ago, production figures were down
slightly for domestic producers, while showing a moderate rise
for foreign nameplates. The latter is attributable to the
abatement of supply chain issues.  Little change in capacity utilization was reported, although a
majority of our contacts said that rates were slightly below
normal levels.  Capital spending  remained on track, but several
producers intend to delay some projects during the upcoming
months. Raw material prices were either flat or trended lower,
while finished goods prices were steady. Little change in
payrolls was noted, although attracting skilled workers remains
very difficult. Wage pressures are contained.  Real Estate. Reports from home builders on single-family housing
starts were mixed. Compared to a year ago, construction activity
was described as similar. On balance, builders expect a modest
rise in new-home construction in the near term. Spec building
remains on the low side, due in part to difficulty in obtaining
financing. List prices of new-homes held steady, though most
builders indicated that they have cut back on discounting. Sales
contracts were found across all price-point categories. Reports
of higher prices for lumber, shingles, and concrete were
widespread, rising mainly in the mid-single digits. Sales of
existing homes continued to show improvement, although inventory
is tight in the mid-price range.  Nonresidential contractors reported that business activity
continued to improve, and most are satisfied with their backlogs
going into 2013. Project work is driven by industrial
(manufacturing and energy), education, healthcare, multi-family
housing, and some public works. Most contractors expect that the
momentum built up this year will be maintained in 2013, though
some commented that customers seemed hesitant about moving
forward at this time. Material price increases were mainly
limited to petroleum-based products.  Residential and nonresidential builders reported little change
in their payrolls. Some seasonal layoffs are expected. A few
builders said that they would like to hire more workers but are
hesitant to do so because of uncertainty surrounding the
upcoming election and the fiscal cliff. Wage pressures are
contained, but sharp increases in health insurance premiums were
noted by many contacts. Subcontractors are holding their prices
steady and many are finding it difficult to recruit skilled
trades.  Consumer Spending . Retailers reported a modest improvement in
sales during August and September relative to year-ago levels.
Consumers have responded positively to new lines of fall
merchandise and back-to-school sales were characterized as good.
Some retailers noted that consumers in middle-income brackets
have entered a holding pattern until after the elections. Our
contacts expect growth in the fourth quarter to be in the low-
to-mid single digits relative to 2011. Vendor pricing has been
stable, with little change in shelf prices. Grocery store chains
reported that their costs have risen due to the summer drought.
Attempts at passing through higher food prices were met with
mixed results. Capital spending for the year remains on target.
Two retailers noted that they may accelerate spending before
year’s end, mainly for distribution equipment. No permanent
hiring is expected other than at new stores. The number of
temporary workers expected to be hired for the upcoming holiday
season is planned to be a little higher than last year.  New-vehicle sales were stronger in August and September when
compared with the same time period a year ago. Dealers reported
that sales of fuel-efficient cars and crossover vehicles are
doing particularly well. New-vehicle inventories increased since
our last report and most dealers described them as acceptable.
Dealers expect little change in monthly sales for the remainder
of 2012. Used-vehicle sales were flat, which was attributed
primarily to a lack of inventory. Most dealers reported that
credit is more readily available and leasing is growing in
popularity. Hiring for sales and service positions remains at a
slow pace. Recruiting qualified people is challenging.  Banking. Demand for business credit moved slightly higher since
our last report, with requests mainly for commercial loans and
refinancings. Several small business owners told us that it
remains difficult for them to obtain credit. The interest rate
environment was described as very competitive. Consumer lending
was up a little, driven by demand for auto loans and home equity
lines of credit. In the residential mortgage market, activity is
fairly strong. Although a majority of applicants are still
looking to refinance, many bankers noted an increase in new-
purchase requests. No changes were made to loan application
standards. Delinquency rates continued to improve across
consumer loan categories; however, several bankers reported an
uptick in delinquencies from commercial customers. Core deposits
grew, especially in transaction accounts. Bankers expect little
change in payrolls for the remainder of this year.  Energy. Conventional oil and natural gas production held steady
during the past six weeks, with little change projected in the
upcoming months. Wellhead prices for natural gas rose slightly.
Drilling rigs are migrating from other states to  Ohio  to take
advantage of the higher-priced wet gas found in the Utica shale.
To date, 375 permits have been issued in Ohio for drilling
horizontal shale gas wells. Thirty wells are now producing, with
50 expected to be in production by year’s end. Coal producers
reported production declines in 2012 of between 10 and 50
percent over prior-year levels due to lower demand from electric
utilities and a stricter regulatory environment. Reports of
idled mines are widespread. Spot prices for export metallurgical
coal declined further, while domestic steam coal prices rose
slightly due to tight supplies. Production equipment and
materials prices were flat in most categories, other than for
 diesel fuel . Capital outlays remain at projected levels. Several
coal operators announced layoffs. In Ohio, a regulatory agency
more than doubled its employment size over the past 12 months to
cope with expanding shale gas activity.  Freight Transportation. Reports on freight transport indicated
that volume is returning to normal trends after a second-quarter
slowdown. Industries which contributed to the pickup include
automotive, construction, and shale gas. However, lower-than-
expected harvests have negatively impacted revenues for some
carriers. Most of our contacts believe that their companies’
growth objectives for 2012 will be met. Apart from fuel prices,
costs associated with truck maintenance held steady. Carriers
have successfully passed through higher diesel prices via a
surcharge. Reports on capital spending were mixed. Half of our
contacts said that 2012 expenditures are on track. Others
reported a slowdown or postponement in purchasing new trucks,
citing a sluggish economy, uncertainty about the fiscal cliff,
and difficulty obtaining financing. Hiring is for replacement
and adding capacity. Recruiting qualified personnel remains
difficult, which is contributing to wage pressures.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 