-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise to One-Week High; Mizuho Sells Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-10-10T21:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-company-credit-swaps-hold-at-one-week-high-on-china-concern.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk reached the highest level in a week on concern that slowing
growth in  China  will hurt corporate profits.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 0.9
basis point to a mid-price of 99 basis points, the highest since
Sept. 28, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts
tied to Avnet Inc. increased to the highest in almost 11 weeks.  The index, which has dropped from a 2012 high of 127.5 on
June 4, rose as China car sales unexpectedly fell for the first
time in eight months, the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said in a statement. Alcoa Inc., the first company
in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to report results this
quarter, cut its forecast for global aluminum consumption on
slowing Chinese demand.  “We’ve been through a period of a pretty strong rally in
credit markets” amid efforts by central banks in  Europe  and the
U.S. to stimulate their economies, Jon Duensing, head of
corporate credit at Smith Breeden Associates, said in a
telephone interview. “So some consolidation is to be
expected.”  Mizuho Offering  Credit swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  Japan ’s third-biggest bank by
market value, sold $2.5 billion of bonds in its third benchmark
dollar-denominated offering this year.  The company, through its Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. unit,
issued $1.5 billion of five-year notes to yield 90 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries and $1 billion of 10-year
debt at a relative yield of 130 basis points, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade debt rose 5
basis points, led by spreads on the bonds of  utility companies ,
which widened 10 basis points, Bloomberg data show. Average
spreads on investment-grade debt widened 1 basis point, the data
show.  The cost of contracts protecting against  Avnet’s (AVT)  default
rose 29.1 basis points to 230.1 basis points, the highest since
July 26, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The swaps rose as the supplier of semiconductors and
computer products cut its first-quarter profit estimate, in part
because of weaker sales in the Americas region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in  New York  at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  