-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-10-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District--  Minneapolis .  NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS  The Ninth District economy expanded modestly since the last
report. Increased activity was noted in construction and real
estate,  consumer spending , tourism, and professional services.
Energy and mining were steady at high levels, while agriculture
varied widely, with crop farmers generally in better condition
than animal producers. Meanwhile, activity slowed slightly in
the manufacturing sector. Labor markets tightened somewhat.
Overall wage increases remained subdued, although stronger
increases were reported in some areas. Price increases were
generally modest.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending increased moderately. Same-store sales at a
Minnesota-based retailer increased 4 percent in August compared
with a year ago. A Minneapolis area mall manger reported that
sales over the past two months were up about 4 percent compared
with a year earlier, while another Minneapolis mall reported
that while traffic was flat, sales were up somewhat. In  North
Dakota , a mall manager reported that sales in August and
September were up more than 5 percent from last year. Recent
sales increased at a Minnesota-based women’s apparel store. A
domestic auto dealer reported strong sales activity near the end
of September and solid commercial fleet sales. A representative
of an auto dealers association in North Dakota reported strong
vehicle sales across the state.  Tourism activity was above year-ago levels. In response to an
end-of-summer survey of lodging and camping businesses by
Minnesota’s tourism office, 46 percent of businesses reported
higher occupancy than last summer, while 31 percent reported
that occupancy was the same. In addition, the number of visitors
to the  Minnesota  State Fair fell just short of a record. Tourism
officials in  Montana  reported strong occupancy levels during the
summer and expect this year to finish ahead of last year.  Construction and Real Estate  Commercial construction activity increased since the last
report. The value of commercial building permits issued in
August more than quadrupled from the same period last year in
both the Sioux Falls, S.D., and Billings, Mont., areas. A
Minneapolis area construction contact noted interest in building
a regional warehouse, while a research and development building
was also planned. Residential construction increased from a year
ago. The value of residential building permits in the Sioux
Falls area in August was up 11 percent from the same period last
year. The number of residential permits more than doubled in the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area in August compared with a year ago.
The value of residential permits issued in August more than
doubled in Billings.  Commercial real estate markets expanded at a slow pace. Vacancy
rates for Minneapolis office, industrial and retail properties
declined slightly since the last report, according to local real
estate professionals. Residential real estate market activity
was brisk. Home sales in mid-September were up 18 percent from
the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the
inventory of homes for sale was down 30 percent. In the  Sioux
Falls  area, August home sales were up 44 percent, inventory was
down 14 percent and the median sales price rose 5 percent
relative to a year earlier.  Services  Activity at professional business services firms grew slightly
since the last report. According to an architecture firm, demand
for services picked up recently. An information technology
consulting company noted a recent uptick in the number of
projects. A  data center  opened in northern Minnesota. An
environmental consulting firm noticed increased activity
primarily due to oil and gas pipeline analysis. A logistics
consulting firm noted that recent freight volumes are about the
same as last year.  Manufacturing  The manufacturing sector weakened slightly since the last
report. A survey of  purchasing managers  by Creighton University
(Omaha, Neb.) found that manufacturing activity decreased in
Minnesota and South Dakota in August for the second month in a
row, though the rate of contraction was not as sharp as in July.
Activity increased in North Dakota, but at a slower pace than
the previous month. In contrast, an agricultural equipment maker
announced that it will open operations in Minnesota, and a
machining firm expanded operations in  Michigan ’s Upper
Peninsula.  Energy and Mining  Activity in the energy and mining sectors remained strong. Oil
and gas exploration decreased slightly in North Dakota and
increased in Montana; however, North Dakota oil production hit a
new record. A large railroad increased its capacity for carrying
crude oil out of North Dakota’s Williston Basin. Several large
transmission-line projects were under way around the District.
In contrast, another Minnesota ethanol plant shut down, and a
North Dakota wind-turbine producer cut production, citing
reductions in demand and uncertainty over the expiration of a
federal tax credit. District iron ore mines continued operating
at near capacity. Sand mines saw increased demand from oil and
gas producers.  Agriculture  Agriculture was mixed, as crop farmers saw strong prices but
widely varying yields, while animal producers saw tighter profit
margins. Harvests were well ahead of schedule for crops around
the region, thanks to hot and dry conditions late in the summer.
District sugar beet producers were expecting a record harvest.
The condition of the corn and soybean crops remained much better
in Minnesota and North Dakota than in core corn belt states.
However, portions of  Wisconsin  and  South Dakota  were hit much
harder by drought. In addition, meat and dairy producers
struggled with higher feed costs. Prices received by farmers
increased for most agricultural outputs in September compared
with a year earlier; the primary exceptions were milk and hogs,
which saw price decreases.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Labor markets tightened modestly. According to a survey by an
employment services firm, 20 percent of respondents in
Minneapolis-St. Paul expect to increase staffing levels during
the fourth quarter, while 6 percent expect to decrease staff. A
year ago, 12 percent anticipated increases, while 11 percent
expected decreases. A recent Minnesota Chamber of Commerce
survey showed that only 49 percent of companies responding said
that the state has enough skilled workers in their respective
industries. In Minnesota, a foreign information technology
consulting firm plans to add 300 workers and a
telecommunications company recently announced that it will add
150 call-center employees. In contrast, a North Dakota wind
turbine manufacturer announced that it will lay off 300 workers.
A hardboard plant in Minnesota closed, affecting 140 workers,
and a medical devices company laid off 80 of its Minnesota
workers as part of a reorganization plan.  Overall wage increases remained subdued, although stronger
increases were reported in some areas. For example, a health
care system recently offered substantial bonuses to recruit
registered nurses in eastern North Dakota.  Price increases were generally modest, with some exceptions
noted. Late September Minnesota gasoline prices increased almost
20 cents per gallon since late August. Metals prices increased
somewhat since the last report, as well as some lumber prices.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 