-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-10-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA  Summary. Sixth District business contacts described economic
activity as expanding slowly in September, and most expect
little change in the near term.  Most retailers cited slow sales growth while auto dealers
continued to experience strong results. Hospitality reports
remained largely positive, with the exception of cruise-lines.
Residential brokers and builders signaled that housing
conditions continued to improve in many parts of the District as
sales and prices of new and existing homes slightly increased
compared with a year ago. Commercial development continued to
improve, led by multifamily construction. Manufacturers
indicated that new orders had softened while production levels
only mildly increased. Bankers saw improvements in demand for
overall loans, particularly those for housing purchases and
refinances. Payrolls expanded modestly on net, and firms noted
some deceleration in input prices, while wages remained
relatively unchanged.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism. Most District merchants reported
that sales growth remained slow in September. Discount retail
operations outperformed traditional department stores. Most
retailers projected continued soft growth in sales through the
end of 2012. Contacts in the  auto industry  reported that strong
sales levels were maintained in September.  Leisure and business travel contacts continued to report strong
activity and an optimistic outlook for the remainder of the
year. Occupancy and room rates as well as convention bookings
were solid. While there has been some drop in traffic from
 Europe , this was largely offset by strong visitor numbers from
 Canada  and  Latin America . Cruise-line bookings and onboard
spending remained below expectations, but the industry
anticipates some improvement next year.  Real Estate and Construction. District residential brokers
indicated that recent existing home sales were up slightly
compared with year-earlier levels. Buyer traffic also remained
ahead of year-ago levels. Brokers again noted declining
inventories, which continued to put upward pressure on home
prices in many markets. Contacts anticipate modest home price
gains over the next year; however, it is expected that
neighborhoods hard hit by foreclosures will continue to
experience home price weakness for some time. The short-term
outlook for home sales remained positive overall, with the
majority of contacts anticipating modest gains.  Reports from District homebuilders remained positive, as well.
Builders indicated that recent new home sales and construction
activity were up slightly from year-earlier levels and new home
inventories remained below year-earlier levels. Construction
remained mostly limited to more desirable locations, such as
those in highly regarded school districts. Southeastern builders
also reported that finished lot inventories varied across the
region, but most anticipate a decline in those inventories over
the next six months. Many indicated that financing terms remain
prohibitive for acquisition and development. New  home prices 
were slightly up compared with a year earlier. Homebuilders also
witnessed stronger buyer traffic. The outlook for construction
activity and new home sales remained positive.  Commercial contractors indicated that the pace of construction
continued to expand and backlogs were slightly up from earlier
in the year. Apartment development continued to dominate the
District’s commercial real estate market. Multifamily rent
growth remained positive but has slowed somewhat in recent
months. Contacts indicated that the District’s office and
industrial markets continued to make small improvements, while
the retail sector was described as sluggish. Many contractors
reported that clients remain hesitant to move ahead on new
projects. However, most anticipate that construction activity
will be flat to slightly up in 2013 compared with 2012.  Manufacturing and Transportation. While noting that new orders
continued to slow, manufacturing contacts reported mild
increases in production, employment, and finished inventory
levels in September. Regional auto and auto parts producers, as
well as firms that supply materials to the energy exploration
and extraction sector, continued to report strong levels of
production, but most other durables manufacturers noted a slight
deceleration in output. Nondurables output, with the exception
of food and chemicals, remained soft.  A Southeast port contact reported record-setting cargo volumes
in fiscal year 2012, with increases across all categories.
Despite the underlying increase in demand tied to replacement of
aging truck fleets and the benefits of increased fuel-
efficiency, new orders for heavy-duty trucks have stalled
recently. Rail contacts reported that lumber shipments have
increased. Air cargo companies saw an increase in cargo volume
tied to the launch of various smartphones and computer tablets,
which favor shipment by air over other modalities.  Banking and Finance. Banking contacts reported an increase in
demand for  mortgage loans  for both purchases and refinances,
although some contacts noted fewer than half of the applications
actually were approved. The improvement in demand for purchase
loans was driven by activity in entry-level homes. Demand for
auto loans remained strong. Business lending had increased
slightly; however, contacts noted most of the increase was not
organic loan growth but was primarily from customers switching
from other lenders or credit cards.  Employment and Prices. Regional employment growth picked up
slightly in September, but remained muted. Reports indicated
that sectors related to energy, autos, and housing were
experiencing most of the hiring activity. Reports also cited
deepening ties between private employers, education
representatives, and government officials in an effort to
address training deficiencies for in-demand positions. The
majority of contacts reported that stagnant demand is the major
reason behind sluggish employment trends, although uncertainty
related to fiscal policy continued to weigh on some firms’
hiring plans.  The majority of businesses contacted reported relief for some
input prices and little change in wage plans. Firms responding
to our Business Inflation Expectations survey reported that unit
costs were up 1.3 percent in September over the past year, which
is 0.3 percentage points lower than the August reading. Looking
forward, businesses’ expectations for inflation also moderated
somewhat. On average, firms expected unit costs to rise 1.7
percent over the next 12 months. Though that number was down
from August, survey contacts noted that rising materials costs
could be a source of moderate upward price pressure going
forward. Along those lines, several manufacturing contacts
indicated that some input prices have increased recently,
causing concern of additional margin pressure.  Surveyed firms reported that sales levels were 7.6 percent below
“normal” times, though assessments varied widely by the size of
the firm. In particular, small and medium-sized businesses
reported experiencing about twice as much slack as their larger
counterparts, a finding that is consistent with anecdotal
insights gathered from our business contacts.  Natural Resources and Agriculture. After brief, precautionary
shut downs related to Hurricane Isaac, regional refiners fully
restored operations with very little damage from the storm.
Energy industry contacts continued to report that Gulf Coast
refineries were undertaking investments to increase production
capacity following refinery closures elsewhere in the country.
Natural gas prices continued to experience downward price
pressures. Contacts continued to note that inexpensive natural
gas had prompted downstream manufacturers to relocate overseas
operations to the U.S., prioritizing locations near refining
operations.  Agriculture contacts said that the rise in some crop prices,
resulting from the drought in the Midwest, had led to increased
crop production in the Southeast where soil conditions were more
favorable, but the overall rise in feed prices was putting
pressure on livestock producers. Compared with the same time
last year, prices paid to farmers for corn, rice, soybeans,
beef, and broilers were up while cotton prices were down.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 