-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-10-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA  Aggregate business activity in the Third District has continued
to improve - growing modestly - since the previous  Beige Book . A
couple of sectors grew faster than the average, while a few
declined slightly. Manufacturing activity declined somewhat,
although a slight increase in new orders may presage a
turnabout. Retail sales growth has continued at a modest pace
since the last Beige Book, while auto sales have continued to
increase at a strong pace. Lending volumes at Third District
banks have continued to grow modestly, and  credit quality  has
continued to improve. Sales of new homes have slowed since the
previous Beige Book period, while brokers report strong growth
in sales of existing homes (from previously low levels).
Commercial real estate contacts reported less leasing activity
and continued weak demand for new construction. Service-sector
firms reported mixed results with stronger tourist visitation, a
slowing defense sector, and modest growth across most other
service sectors. Price pressures have changed little since the
last Beige Book.  The overall outlook appears somewhat more optimistic relative to
the views expressed in the last Beige Book, as contacts are
beginning to look beyond the pending election and looming fiscal
cliff. Expectations among manufacturers improved significantly
for overall activity over the next six months, while plans for
 capital spending  and hiring were mixed. Auto dealers and real
estate firms are more optimistic, as their positive trends gain
traction. Holiday sales expectations are strong among many
general retailers. Financial- and service-sector contacts
express a mix of views regarding the future - generally positive
with varying degrees of caution.  Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District
manufacturers have continued to report overall declines in
shipments, but a slight increase in new orders. Makers of lumber
and wood products; stone, clay, and glass products; fabricated
metal products; and instruments have reported gains since the
last Beige Book. Lower activity was reported by makers of
primary metals, industrial machinery, and electronic equipment.
One manufacturer summarized the broad economic climate as a
summer slowdown with sequential improvement, marked by a
definite increase in August.  Optimism among Third District manufacturers that business
conditions will improve during the next six months has grown
significantly since the last Beige Book and is evident across
most sectors. Plans were recently announced to restart the third
of three District refineries that were all at risk of closing
one year ago; the other two were previously rescued. Firms have
raised their overall expectations of future hiring, but plans
for capital spending have softened since the last Beige Book.  Retail. Overall, Third District retailers reported little change
between the modest year-over-year sales growth in August
compared with July, although one contact stated that his store
experienced the strongest Labor Day weekend in years. This
year’s sunny weather certainly helped compared with last year’s
storms. One department store manager reported that back-to-
school sales did well, cold-weather clothing is moving better
than last year, and discretionary “fun” items are selling well.
Retail contacts are bullish for the upcoming holiday season,
speculating that people will be primed to respond to upbeat
holiday advertising after the long, negative political campaign
season. An expectation of greater seasonal hiring has been
widely discussed. And the holiday calendar provides a 32-day
shopping season - the longest possible.  There has also been little change in the pace of auto sales
since the last Beige Book.  Pennsylvania  dealers reported ongoing
moderate growth in August; New Jersey dealers recorded a third
consecutive strong sales month in August and described September
sales as “good.” The outlook among dealers remains positive. One
contact stated “confidence is back, credit is back, and leasing
is back.” However, dealers remain somewhat cautious through this
political season regarding consumer uncertainty.  Finance. Overall, Third District financial firms have reported
continued growth since the previous Beige Book. Loan volumes
grew modestly across most categories. Contacts describe fierce
competition for small business loans from large and small banks.
Despite high charge-off rates and ongoing household
deleveraging, credit card outstandings have been virtually flat
since the last Beige Book. Most contacts report that the
financial health of households, businesses, and financial
institutions continues to improve. The overall outlook among
lenders remains positive.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential builders reported a
drop-off in traffic and slower sales in August and early
September - a disappointing conclusion to their primary sales
season. Builders lament that people are choosing to rent rather
than buy even when local rents exceed the total cost of owning a
home. Residential brokers reported somewhat stronger year-over-
year sales growth in August than expressed in the last Beige
Book and continued strength into September. Inventory levels of
real estate listings remain at lower levels than one year ago
with no signs of a large emerging shadow inventory. Multiple
bids are reported for homes priced between $250,000 and
$400,000; more very high-end listings are beginning to appear
and test the market. Builders and brokers remain cautiously
optimistic.  Nonresidential real estate contacts reported a big slowdown in
August and a disappointingly small rebound in September.
However, conditions remain better than one year ago, with more
prospects, faster decision-making, and few downsizings outside
of southern  New Jersey . There is very little demand for new
office/commercial buildings, but the industrial market remains
strong, especially in the Lehigh Valley and central Pennsylvania
markets. Center City Philadelphia and adjacent areas in West
Philadelphia and the Navy Yard are an exception, with very busy
design/build work for higher education, hotels, and multifamily
apartments and condominiums. However, many professional
architects and engineers - experienced and novice - remain out
of work or underemployed. Nonresidential real estate contacts
retain an outlook of slow, steady growth.  Services. Third District service-sector firms have reported
mixed growth since the last Beige Book. Tourist areas along the
Delaware and New Jersey shores, in the Poconos, around
Philadelphia, and throughout central Pennsylvania have reported
strong visitation and/or lodging numbers relative to recent
years. Atlantic City casinos and some neighboring shore areas
were exceptions. Jersey shore businesses expressed considerable
disappointment over cautious tourist spending; Delaware shore
business also noted some caution. However, the tourist season
concluded on a high note as the Labor Day weekend benefited by
comparison to last year when severe weather disrupted end-of-
summer plans. District staffing firms reported little change in
orders, hiring mix, and wages. One firm continued to report
extremely busy orders for manufacturing workers - better than in
recent years - but expects a seasonal decline beginning in
October. Demand for professional/business and health-care staff
remains slower. Defense-related firms reported that there are
fewer large contracts on which to bid and that they have
continued to lower their expectations for 2013 and 2014 as
sequestration or an alternative budget deal nears. Overall,
other service-sector firms report a modest but positive outlook
for six months out.  Prices and Wages. Price levels have continued to show little
overall change since the previous Beige Book. Once again, cost
factors have risen slightly among manufacturing firms but the
increase is less than it was during the previous Beige Book;
prices received by manufacturers fell. Homebuilders and
retailers indicated few significant changes in their cost
pressures or prices they charge. One homebuilder attempted to
raise prices but couldn’t make them stick. Real estate contacts
continue to report that lower-cost homes have reached a price
floor in most markets and are beginning to rise slightly in some
neighborhoods. Leasing agents have been unable to charge higher
leasing rates in nearly all markets, except for industrial space
along the corridor from Carlisle, PA, to the  Lehigh Valley .
Contacts from all sectors report little or no wage pressures,
other than for medical benefits.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 