-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-10-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  Eighth District - St. Louis  Summary  Economic activity in the Eighth District has expanded at a
moderate pace since our previous survey. Recent reports of
planned activity from manufacturing and services contacts have
been positive. Residential real estate market conditions have
continued to improve moderately, while commercial and industrial
real estate market conditions have continued to be mixed.
Overall lending activity at a sample of small and mid-sized
District banks increased slightly from mid-June to early
September. Agricultural conditions in the District have
generally improved since our previous report.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive
since our previous report. Several manufacturers reported plans
to hire new employees, open new plants, or expand operations,
while fewer manufacturers reported plans to lay off workers or
close plants. Firms in poultry processing, furniture, commercial
printing, boat, conveyor equipment, HVAC equipment, and
industrial gas manufacturing plan to hire new workers, open new
facilities, or expand current operations. In contrast, firms
that manufacture iron and steel products, mining equipment, and
food products plan to lay off workers or close existing
facilities.  Reports of planned activity in the District’s service sector
have been positive since our previous report. Firms in business
support, distribution, healthcare technology, and personal care
reported plans to hire new workers or expand operations. A
transportation services firm also announced large-scale hiring
plans for seasonal employees recently. In contrast, a financial
services firm announced plans to relocate workers to a new
location outside the District. Lastly, auto dealers in certain
parts of the District reported weak hybrid vehicle sales.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales increased throughout most of the Eighth District on a
year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2011,
August 2012 year-to-date home sales were up 15 percent in
Louisville, 6 percent in  Little Rock , 11 percent in Memphis, and
17 percent in St. Louis. Residential construction increased in
the majority of the District. August 2012 year-to-date single-
family housing permits increased in the majority of the District
metro areas compared with the same period in 2011. Permits
increased 41 percent in Louisville, 27 percent in Little Rock,
39 percent in Memphis, and 17 percent in St. Louis.  Commercial and industrial real estate conditions were mixed
throughout most of the District. A contact reported that
apartment occupancy rates in northwest  Arkansas  remained high in
Rogers, Bentonville, Fayetteville, and Springdale and strong
multi-family real estate activity is expected in the second half
of 2012. A contact in Louisville reported that office leasing
activity declined in the central business district, while it
remained strong in the suburban area. A contact in  Memphis 
reported that industrial real estate activity has improved.
Commercial and industrial construction activity improved
throughout most of the District. A contact in Little Rock
reported several new office building construction projects in
the Fayetteville metropolitan area. A contact in Louisville
reported that with demand for multi-family units remaining
strong, plans for apartment construction continued to increase.
A contact reported new mixed-use development plans in the
Memphis metropolitan area.  Banking and Finance  Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized
District banks increased 1.4 percent from mid-June to early
September. Real estate lending, which accounts for 73.3 percent
of total loans, increased 0.2 percent. Commercial and industrial
loans, accounting for 15.8 percent of total loans, increased 1
percent. Loans to individuals, accounting for 4.7 percent of
total loans, increased 2.5 percent. All other loans, accounting
for 6.2 percent of total loans, increased 16.4 percent. During
this period, total deposits at these banks increased 0.2
percent.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  The condition of pastureland in the Eighth District has improved
significantly from early August to late September. Excluding
 Mississippi , where 97 percent of pastureland was already rated
as fair or better, the fraction of pastureland in fair or better
condition has increased by at least 20 percentage points in all
District states. The share of crops in fair or better condition
has similarly increased across the District, although the
condition of the corn crop remains relatively unchanged. Harvest
completion rates have outpaced their 5-year averages for almost
all crops in all District states. In particular, harvest
completion rates for corn and rice are on average 30 percentage
points ahead of their 5-year averages. Total year-to-date coal
production in the states comprising the District, with the
exception of eastern  Kentucky , was 9 percent higher through the
end of August than it was in the first eight months of 2011.
August production, however, was 6.8 percent lower than in August
2011.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 