-- U.S. Electric Grid Gets Regulatory Jolt Into 21st Century
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-10T22:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-electric-grid-gets-regulatory-jolt-into-21st-century.html
This week, the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission  will begin enforcing Order 1000.
Understandably, most readers probably won’t want to inquire
further.  Yet before your eyes glaze over, consider that this set of
regulations is designed to turbocharge the biggest
transformation of the U.S. electricity market in decades, with
far-reaching consequences for the economy, consumers, utilities
and investors.  Electricity demand is expected to grow by about 1.1 percent
a year through 2030. And the nation’s current grid is
hazardously out of date. Its basic structure would be
recognizable to Thomas Edison, who set up the first commercial
electric grid in  New York  in 1882. Pieced together over more
than 100 years, critical elements of equipment and technology
are nearing the end of their lifespan.  About 70 percent of  power lines  and transformers are more
than 25 years old, and 60 percent of circuit breakers are more
than 30 years old, a study by the  American Society of Civil
Engineers  has found. About $673 billion will need to be invested
by 2020 to avert severe breakdowns. The last major U.S.
blackout, which turned off the lights in the Northeast in 2003,
resulted in $7 billion to $10 billion in economic losses.  Smart Grid  The Obama administration has made an $11 billion down
payment (using funds in the 2009 stimulus package) on a more
efficient grid. That has included $4.5 billion in grants to
develop a so-called smart grid, which applies the speed and
power of the Internet to the generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity. Among other things, it gives
utilities the capacity to instantly pinpoint -- and even repair
-- disruptions on their lines from a central monitoring post.  The technology is designed to give consumers and utilities
more control over their energy costs and, over time, reduce the
need for expensive new power lines. The switch would
significantly improve capacity while reducing inefficiencies and
failures, which the  Department of Energy  estimates cost the  U.S.
economy  $150 billion a year.  The program, which is being led by the power companies
themselves, is on track to install 15.5 million smart meters in
homes and businesses by the end of 2014. These devices enable
customers to monitor and control their electricity use and
eliminate the need for utilities to send meter readers door to
door as they have done for the past century. Interconnected
meters would permit consumers to reduce their electricity use at
times of peak demand, when power is most expensive, and even
sell unused power back to their utility.  Order 1000 is the crucial next step in a separate effort to
overhaul the electrical grid. In early 2009, President  Barack Obama  had identified this vast undertaking as his technological
“moonshot.” He soon discovered, however, that the grid is too
fragmented to be transformed in a grand gesture. The more than 6
million miles of transmission and distribution lines are owned
by about 3,000  utility companies  -- all of them subject to
varied federal and state regulators.  Obtaining permission to build interstate high-voltage
transmission lines from the many jurisdictions, regulators and
authorities involved would entail years of bureaucratic delays.  That’s where Order 1000 comes in. It sets out broad
guidelines for planning, building and paying for new
transmission lines designed to meet growing demand, maintain
reliability and, crucially, bring on line remote alternative
energy sources such as wind and solar.  Regional Planning  Order 1000 will require grid operators to collaborate on
regional planning and allow independent developers to compete
with traditional utilities in building new power lines. The
order also proposes a way to address crippling disputes over who
pays for transmission infrastructure: The cost of new equipment
would be apportioned to various jurisdictions according to the
benefits it provides. That cost, in turn, would be passed on to
consumers.  According to a Bloomberg Government analysis, more than
$104 billion worth of new transmission capability will be built
by 2022, generating about $6 billion in profit for power-line
developers. Order 1000 could accelerate that growth.  Some conservatives decry the “socialization” of
transmission-line funding to accommodate supplies of wind and
solar energy -- a subsidy for an industry that doesn’t compete
on its own. Likewise, some states, including  Arizona ,  Michigan 
and  Nevada , have objected that Order 1000 infringes on their
regulatory powers.  There is merit to these criticisms. Much of the cost of
building a 21st century grid will be borne by consumers, who
could initially see higher rates for power. Ultimately, however,
access to cheaper power will lower rates. The long-term payoff
will be a reliable grid that will drive stronger economic growth
as well as cleaner and cheaper energy. That is well worth that
initial outlay.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Facebook, the SEC and
companies planning to go public ;  Caroline Baum  on  five things
Democrats won’t tell you ;  Michael Kinsley  on  coming to terms
with a President Romney ;  Ezra Klein  on  one campaign without
policy and one without vision ;  Michael Lewis  on  children of Wall
Street employees  as bonuses shrink;  Amity Shlaes  and Matthew
Denhart on  how one word can help candidates  win debates; Camille
Paglia on  Jackson Pollock ,  American art pioneer .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 