-- U.S. Federal Reserve Oct. Beige Book Summary (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-10-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/u-s-federal-reserve-oct-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text of
the  Federal Reserve  Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Summary*
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that
economic activity generally expanded modestly since the last
report. The  New York  District noted a leveling off in economic
activity, and  Kansas City  indicated some slowing in the pace of
growth. In general, other Districts reported that growth
continued at a modest pace.  Consumer spending was generally reported to be flat to up
slightly since the last report. A number of Districts
characterized retail sales as expanding at a modest pace, while
reports from New York,  Chicago , and Kansas City indicated flat
or softening sales. Vehicle sales were also generally
characterized as stable but up from a year earlier and generally
at favorable levels. Used car sales were mixed. Most Districts
described tourism as fairly robust, though Kansas City noted
some general softening, while New York and  Dallas  indicated some
scattered signs of weakening.  Residential real estate conditions improved since the last
report. Most Districts reported strengthening in existing home
sales, while prices were described as steady to increasing, with
declining inventories noted in the  Boston , Atlanta,  Minneapolis ,
Dallas, and  San Francisco  Districts. Residential construction
was also described as rising in most Districts. Commercial real
estate markets were mixed since the last report. Office markets
showed signs of softening in the northeastern Districts--Boston,
New York, and Philadelphia--while most other Districts reported
stable or mixed market conditions. Industrial markets showed
some strength in the New York, Philadelphia,  Cleveland , and
Atlanta Districts, while softer conditions were noted in
Richmond.  Conditions in the manufacturing sector were mixed but, on
balance, somewhat improved since the last report. The Boston,
Richmond, Atlanta,  St. Louis , Kansas City, and San Francisco
Districts reported some expansion in activity, whereas New York,
Chicago, and Minneapolis reported some weakening in activity.
The nonfinancial services sector showed modest improvement in
the latest reporting period. Richmond, Minneapolis, Dallas, and
San Francisco reported some expansion in activity, while New
York and Philadelphia indicated steady or mixed conditions.  Overall loan demand was steady to stronger in most Districts.
Credit standards were little changed since the last report, and
a number of Districts noted improvements in loan quality or
steady to declining delinquency rates. Agricultural conditions
were mixed, with drought conditions continuing to adversely
affect much of the mid-section of the nation. Activity in the
energy sector remained robust.  Districts mostly reported little change in prices of both
finished goods and inputs. Prices for agricultural commodities
and petroleum-based products were generally reported to be
higher, while natural gas prices were said to be low or
declining. Employment conditions were little changed since the
last report. Several Districts continued to report shortages of
highly skilled workers, but otherwise wage pressures remained
modest. Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Chicago noted increases in
the costs of employee medical benefits.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending  was mixed but generally reported to be flat to
up slightly over the latest reporting period. Retail sales were
said to have improved modestly in the Cleveland, Richmond,
Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts, while sales
were characterized as flat to softer in the New York and Kansas
City Districts. In general, retail sales were reported to be
running only modestly ahead of a year ago. A number of reports
noted various factors affecting sales, such as rising gasoline
prices, political uncertainty, concerns about the “fiscal cliff”
and weather. Atlanta and San Francisco noted that discounters
have been outperforming traditional department stores. Cleveland
reported that back-to-school merchandise sold well, while
Chicago said that such sales were below expectations. Boston
noted a pickup in furniture sales, Richmond cited brisk sales at
building supplies stores, and San Francisco reported stronger
demand at restaurants and food-service establishments.  Vehicle sales were mixed but generally at favorable levels.
Sales of new vehicles were steady to stronger and running ahead
of comparable 2011 levels. Philadelphia, Atlanta, Minneapolis,
and San Francisco described sales as strong, while New York and
Chicago reported some moderation in sales in September, after a
fairly strong August. Kansas City and Dallas reported some
softening or leveling off in sales. The Cleveland and Kansas
City Districts noted that crossover SUVs have been selling well
relative to less fuel-efficient vehicles. Sales of used vehicles
were mixed, with San Francisco describing them as robust but New
York and Cleveland characterizing them as flat.  Tourism was generally described as steady at robust levels,
though there have been scattered indications of some softening.
Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis
and San Francisco described tourism as strong, whereas the
Kansas City and Dallas Districts indicated some signs of
weakening. Even Districts reporting strength noted some pockets
of softening: Boston reported a small drop in advance bookings,
New York indicated a dip in activity in mid-September, Richmond
noted a significant drop in government-sponsored bookings, and
Atlanta mentioned disappointing cruise bookings and on-board
spending. The Dallas District noted weakening  travel demand  from
 Europe  and  Asia ; Atlanta also indicated weakening traffic from
Europe but added that Canadian and Latin American visitors
largely picked up the slack.  Real Estate and Construction  Residential real estate showed widespread improvement since the
last report. All twelve Districts reported that existing home
sales strengthened, in some cases substantially. Selling prices
were steady or rising. Boston, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Dallas and
San Francisco noted declining or tight inventories, which have
put upward pressure on prices. Modest price increases were
reported in the New York, Richmond, Chicago, and Kansas City
Districts. New York and Richmond reported relatively strong
demand at the high and low ends of the market, whereas
Philadelphia and Kansas City noted relative strength for mid-
range homes; Boston indicated a shift in the mix toward lower or
medium priced homes. New home construction and sales were more
mixed but still mostly improved: increased construction and/or
new home sales were reported in the Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis,
Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco Districts. Multi-family
construction, in particular, was described as robust in the
Boston, New York, Atlanta, Chicago, and Dallas Districts.
Residential rental markets continued to be characterized as
strong, even in the New York and Atlanta Districts where rents
increased somewhat less strongly than in recent months.  Commercial real estate markets were mixed since the last report.
Office markets showed signs of softening in the northeastern
Districts--Boston, New York and Philadelphia--with New York
remarking on substantial new supply coming on the market in
early 2013. In contrast, Atlanta, Minneapolis and San Francisco
noted some improvement, while most other Districts reported
stable or mixed market conditions. Industrial markets showed
some strength in the New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland and
Atlanta Districts, while conditions were described as sluggish
in Richmond and mixed in St. Louis. Atlanta noted weakness in
the market for retail space. Commercial construction activity
was also mixed: Atlanta, Minneapolis and Kansas City reported
some improvement in non-residential construction activity, while
Richmond and Dallas noted that activity was sluggish.  Manufacturing  Conditions in the manufacturing sector were mixed since the last
report, though on balance, more Districts reported that
conditions had improved than worsened. The Boston, Richmond,
Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts
reported that activity expanded, though growth was generally
seen as modest. Activity was reported as mixed in the Dallas
District, while the New York, Chicago, and Minneapolis Districts
reported that activity weakened, though declines were mild for
the latter two. Significant gains in manufacturing related to
the construction, energy, and transportation sectors were
reported across several Districts, with particularly robust
gains tied to the automotive industry. There were exceptions in
the Kansas City and Dallas Districts where manufacturing related
to transportation equipment was reported as mixed.  Steel production was said to be flat in the Cleveland and San
Francisco Districts, and lower in the St. Louis District.
Activity related to machinery and equipment was reported as
lower in the Philadelphia, Chicago, and Kansas City Districts.
Weaker sales growth in the high tech industry was reported by
Dallas, and Kansas City said that growth among high-tech firms
remained sluggish in its District. The Boston District noted
some weakness in the semiconductor industry, while the San
Francisco District said that new orders from the semiconductor
industry had improved. Manufacturing contacts in the St. Louis
District were tentative about the outlook for 2013, and contacts
in the Dallas District noted some uncertainty about the outlook
due to the upcoming election.  Nonfinancial Services  Activity in nonfinancial services was stable to slightly
stronger since the last report. The Richmond, Minneapolis,
Dallas, and San Francisco Districts reported that service-sector
activity expanded, while such activity was reported as steady in
the New York District and mixed in the Philadelphia District.
Richmond noted that business activity strengthened for
professional, scientific, and technical service firms, and
Dallas noted strength in energy, accounting, and audit-related
services. There was an increase in activity for a wide range of
consulting services in the Boston and Minneapolis Districts.
Activity related to health care was reported to be stable in the
San Francisco District, but increased significantly in the
Boston District. San Francisco reported continued sales growth
for a wide variety of technology services, and noted that demand
picked up for restaurants and other food-service providers.  Reports on goods transportation services generally remained
positive. A pick up in such activity was noted in Cleveland,
Atlanta, Richmond, and Dallas, while such activity was said to
be flat in Kansas City. Contacts in the Cleveland, Atlanta, and
Dallas Districts reported strong shipments of automotive,
construction, and energy-related products. Port activity
expanded to record levels in the Atlanta and Richmond Districts.
Air cargo volume increased in the Atlanta District, but declined
in the Dallas District due to weakness in the international
sector.  Banking and Finance  Overall loan demand increased slightly on net since the last
Beige Book report. New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond,
Atlanta, St. Louis, and San Francisco reported stronger loan
demand on balance, while Kansas City and Dallas reported flat
demand and Chicago reported somewhat weaker demand. Most
Districts reported an increase in mortgage lending, especially
for refinancing purposes. New York, Cleveland, St. Louis, Kansas
City, and San Francisco reported some increase in demand for
commercial and industrial loans, while demand for business loans
was weak in Chicago and Dallas, and was characterized as mixed
in Richmond. Demand for  consumer credit , particularly for auto
loans, was said to be strong in the Cleveland, Atlanta, St.
Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts, while consumer loan
demand was more limited in New York, Richmond, Chicago, and
Kansas City.  Credit standards were little changed since the last report.
However, New York noted some tightening for consumer loans and
residential mortgages, while Richmond and Chicago reported some
easing for commercial and industrial loans. Still, loans
remained difficult to obtain for many small businesses in the
Cleveland, Richmond, and Chicago Districts. Banking contacts in
the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts
reported stiff competition among lenders. Philadelphia, Kansas
City, and Dallas noted general improvements in loan quality, and
delinquency rates generally held steady or declined in the New
York, Cleveland, and Dallas Districts.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Agriculture conditions were mixed since the last report. Drought
conditions continued to hurt the  agriculture sector  in the
Chicago District, parts of the Minneapolis District, and the
Kansas City and Dallas Districts. However, agriculture activity
was reported as higher in the Atlanta and St. Louis Districts,
as well as in parts of the Minneapolis District, and was
reported as stable in the San Francisco District. The Chicago
and Dallas Districts noted that increased rainfall had improved
crop conditions. In the Dallas District, crops were reported to
be mostly in fair to good shape, with production levels ahead of
last year but below average due to ongoing dry conditions.
Producers in the St. Louis District reported that crops were
generally in better condition than at the time of the previous
report, and harvest rates for corn and rice were well ahead of
their five-year averages. Contacts in the Atlanta District
reported that the rise in some crop prices related to the
drought in the Midwest led to an increase in crop production in
the Southeast. Higher feed prices continued to adversely affect
livestock producers in the Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas
and San Francisco Districts, though the Chicago District noted
some easing in higher feed prices which provided a bit of
relief.  Activity in the energy sector remained strong, with the
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts reporting robust
gains in activity. The Minneapolis District reported that oil
production hit a new record high in  North Dakota , and the
Cleveland District reported that oil and natural gas production
held steady. Natural gas exploration was reported as lower in
the Kansas City District and in parts of the Minneapolis
District. Coal producers in the Cleveland District reported
declines in production.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Employment conditions were little changed since the last report.
The Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Dallas
Districts indicated that employment levels were flat or up
slightly, with stagnant demand and uncertainty related to the
upcoming presidential election, U.S. fiscal policy, and European
debt issues cited by some as restraining hiring. The New York
and Chicago Districts noted weaker labor market conditions, and
conditions were described as mixed in Richmond. Firms in the St.
Louis District reported an increase in hiring plans. Several
Districts continued to report that employers were having
difficulty filling highly skilled positions. In response, a few
Districts noted that firms were starting to increase training
programs to meet their staffing needs.  Most Districts reported that wage pressures remained modest
since the last report, though an increase in the cost of
employee medical benefits was noted in Philadelphia, Cleveland,
and Chicago. To the extent that wage increases were observed,
they were concentrated among highly skilled workers in
 information technology , health care, professional services, and
some of the skilled trades, according to reports from the
Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts.  Price pressures were said to be contained as most Districts
reported that both finished goods and input prices were little
changed since the last report. Higher prices were cited by some
Districts for agricultural commodities and petroleum-based
products, although low or declining natural  gas prices  were
reported in the Atlanta, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco
Districts. Contacts in the Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and
Dallas Districts noted that drought conditions continued to
result in higher feed prices. There were scattered reports of
higher crop prices starting to show through to food prices at
the consumer level. Atlanta reported an increase in corn and
soybean prices, while Chicago and Kansas City reported that
these prices declined somewhat. Slightly lower prices for some
technology-related products were reported in the San Francisco
District.  * Prepared at the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and based on
information collected on or before September 28, 2012. This
document summarizes comments received from businesses and other
contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on
the views of Federal Reserve officials.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 