-- Tucci, Questlove Help Food Festival Raise $1 Million
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-10-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/tucci-questlove-help-food-festival-raise-1-million.html
This Sunday, Train, the Grammy
Award-winning rock band, takes a break from its screaming arena
fans to play at the  Food Network New York City Wine & Food
Festival .  Hosted by  Travel Channel star Andrew Zimmern , the “Trucks
and Train” event features a live performance and gourmet street
food washed down with the band’s very own Syrah blend, “Drops
of Jupiter.”  The wine, created for charity and named after the band’s
2001 hit single, helps support  Family House  in San Francisco, a
nonprofit that provides shelter for families of cancer-afflicted
children.  “We thought what better thing to do than to make a wine
and give the proceeds back to charity,” Jimmy Stafford, Train’s
lead guitarist, said in a telephone interview. “We didn’t want
to make a gimmicky wine, but one that we would take pride in.”  The entire festival expects to raise more than $1 million
for the  Food Bank for New York City  and the Washington-based
 Share Our Strength .  “We’re really fortunate to have this connection with the
chefs who are rock stars themselves,” Chuck Scofield, Share Our
Strength’s chief development officer, said by telephone.  A top attraction is a $300 (sold-out) feast hosted by
master chef Alain Ducasse featuring classic dishes from his
Benoit restaurants in Paris and New York. Masaharu Morimoto will
preside over a sushi and karaoke party.  Actor and “Hunger Games” star Stanley Tucci presents his
culinary side at the  festival’s grand tasting  on Saturday. He
will make recipes from the new “The Tucci Cookbook,” his
tribute to Italian cuisine. Tucci, who is also a Food Bank board
member, will donate all proceeds from the book’s sales to the
nonprofit.  “He has used his celebrity to help us,” Margarette
Purvis, the Food Bank’s executive director, said by phone.
“Even when he’s promoting movies, he mentions his involvement
with the hunger issue and he mentions the Food Bank.”  Goldberg, Winfrey  Drummer Ahmir “Questlove” Thompson, music director for
NBC’s “Late Night with Jimmy Fallon,” will spin records at the
“Shake & Bake” fried chicken party. It’s hosted by Whoopie
Goldberg and  Art Smith , once personal chef for Oprah Winfrey.  Questlove, who appears frequently at charity events, will
also plug his catering business’s signature fried chicken
drumsticks.  “At first, I wondered if I could handle the musical life
and the culinary life, and I started to notice that music is
like the food game,” said Questlove. “You always get called
out to battle with the ones you’re competing against.”  The Food Network New York City Wine & Food Festival starts
Thursday and runs through Sunday. Information and tickets:
 http://www.nycwff.org .  Muse highlights include Craig Seligman on  movies  and Mark
Beech on  theater .  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 