-- UPS Said to Weigh Concessions When EU Objects to TNT Bid
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-10T17:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/ups-said-to-soon-receive-eu-antitrust-objections-on-tnt-bid.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  may make
an offer to resolve competition concerns set out by European
Union regulators over its plan to buy  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  once it
sees a formal complaint on the deal from the EU, according to
two people familiar with the situation.  The world’s biggest package-delivery company will get a so-
called statement of objections from the European Commission
listing possible antitrust obstacles with the deal, the two
people said. The objections may be sent as soon as next week
after officials meet with UPS, said one of the people who asked
not to be identified because the merger-review process is
private.  UPS hasn’t yet made a formal offer to address EU concerns.
Companies often propose to sell units or change the way they do
business to eliminate antitrust worries over deals that may
restrict competition.  UPS agreed in March to buy TNT for 5.16 billion euros ($6.6
billion) or 9.5 euros a share in cash. The transaction will help
it expand in  Europe  and vault to equal footing there with
 Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL, the market-share leader. The tie-up with
money-losing TNT will immediately add to earnings on an adjusted
basis once the deal is done, Atlanta-based UPS said at the time.  Peggy Gardner, a spokeswoman for UPS in Atlanta, said the
company is in talks with the Brussels-based commission and that
regulators will determine the next steps of the review.  Four to Three  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said on Oct. 2
that the UPS deal would reduce from four to three the number of
companies that control pan-European parcel-transport networks.
Regulators would analyze whether the combined firm would be
“challenged enough” by DHL and  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , he said.  “These companies offer a service that has a broad impact
on our economy, especially for cross-border trade, so it is
important that customers continue to have access to these
services at competitive conditions,” Almunia said in the  speech 
in Nicosia.  Almunia said last month that it was “possible” that the
EU would send a statement of objections on the deal.  TNT Express spokesman Ernst Moeksis said in an e-mail today
that all questions about a statement of objections must be
answered by the commission.  “UPS and TNT Express will continue the dialogue with the
commission,” he said. The two companies “remain confident they
will receive clearance for the proposed acquisition.”  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the commission in
Brussels, declined to comment.  Express Services  The EU in July cited potential competition concerns for
small parcel delivery services, in particular international
express services, in several European countries where the
companies would have very high combined market shares.  UPS hasn’t made any public statement over selling any
business units to eliminate antitrust concerns.  “UPS would want to get rid of their own domestic operation
in the U.K., because it’s far weaker than TNT’s,” said Joel Ray, an analyst at Brinkworth, England-based Transport
Intelligence.  “The problem is that Almunia has provided no definition of
what a small parcel should be, whether it’s less than 1kg or
5kg. But there are domestic markets where one company is bigger
than the other that they’ll be happier to shed assets.”  The Financial Times reported the commission plan earlier
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 