-- Turkey Urged to Respect Rights, Cyprus to Accelerate EU Bid
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-10-10T13:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/turkey-urged-to-respect-rights-cyprus-to-accelerate-eu-bid.html
Turkey ’s bid to join the European
Union stalled due to shortcomings in democratic reforms and
Ankara’s refusal to attend meetings under rotating EU president
Cyprus, the European Commission said in a report today.  Cyprus, its northern part occupied by the Turkish army, has
used its veto power as an EU member to freeze Turkey’s entry
talks since mid-2010. The Cypriot government now holds the EU’s
six-month rotating presidency, making progress before 2013
unlikely.  Since opening entry negotiations in 2005, Turkey has
completed talks in only one of 35 EU policy areas. Its failure
to advance contrasts with  Croatia , which started the process at
the same time and is scheduled to join the bloc in July 2013.  “Turkey has frozen its relations with the rotating
Presidency of the Council of the EU during the second half of
2012, including by refusing to attend any meeting chaired by the
Cyprus Presidency,” according to the annual enlargement report,
which urged Turkey to show “full respect” of the role of
Cyprus’ presidency.  The commission also expressed “serious concerns with
regard to Turkish statements and threats,” against Cyprus.
Turkey has threatened Cyprus with use of force over a dispute
over the ownership of the divided island’s natural resources.
Cyprus joined the EU in 2004, but only its south enjoys
membership benefits.  Talks under the auspices of the United Nations secretary
general to find a comprehensive settlement to the Cyprus issue
reached a deadlock in spring 2012. The report says an agreement
would boost stability in the region, create economic
opportunities and help Turkey’s EU accession negotiations.  Human-Rights Record  Turkey’s bid is also troubled by lack of sufficient
progress in improving the country’s human-rights record, the
report said.  “There are recurring infringements of the right to liberty
and security and to a fair trial, as well as of the freedom of
expression, assembly and association, through the
disproportionate application of the legislation on terrorism and
organized crime,” the report said. “ Further restriction of
the freedom of the media and the growing number of court cases
against writers and journalists remain serious issues.”  The report singled out the Kurdish conflict as a key
challenge for Turkey’s democracy, saying “a political solution
is urgently required.” The conflict has left about 40,000
people dead since militants of the Kurdistan Workers’ Party or
PKK took up arms for autonomy in the Kurdish-dominated southeast
in 1984.  Price Pressures  On the health of Turkey’s economy, which has grown an
average 5.5 percent a year since Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s party came to power in 2002, the progress report said
“sizable external imbalances and significant inflationary
pressures remain the largest threats to macroeconomic
stability.”  “The high incidence of informal employment, segmented
labor markets and the completion of the reform of trade union
legislation remain a challenge,” the report cautioned.  Turkey has long been asking the EU relax the visa regime
applied to Turkish nationals while the EU insists that Turkey
must first sign a “readmission agreement” to accept the return
of possibly thousands of illegal migrants who entered  Europe  via
Turkey with the help of smugglers.  “After it was initiated in June, it is now crucial that
Turkey signs the readmission agreement to allow for
implementation of the visa liberalization road map to start,”
the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  