-- Turkey Threatens Even Stronger Response to Syrian Fire
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-10T12:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/turkish-schools-reopen-along-syrian-border-after-shelling.html
Turkey ’s top general warned of a
tougher response if Syrian shells continue to land on Turkish
soil following six days of retaliatory barrages by his forces
against President Bashar al-Assad’s army.  General Necdet Ozel, chief of the Turkish general staff,
made the comments today as he inspected troops in Akcakale as
well as the border town of Suruc in Sanliurfa province, CNN-Turk
television said. Ozel observed Syrian territory through a
thermal camera before speaking to soldiers in a foxhole in
Suruc, the state-run Anatolia news agency said.  “If it continues, we will make a stronger response,” the
NTV television website quoted Ozel as saying about the shelling.
“We retaliated immediately, we also inflicted losses.”  Radar-assisted Turkish guns fired on Syrian positions for
six consecutive days from Oct. 3 in response to a Syrian
artillery shell that killed five people in Akcakale. At least 14
Syrian soldiers were killed, Al Arabiya television reported.  Turkey has reinforced its military presence on the 911-
kilometer (566 mile) frontier between the two countries after
its parliament authorized entry into  Syria  if the attacks
continue. Tensions between Turkey, a North Atlantic Treaty
Organization member, and Syria have risen during the 19-month
rebellion against Assad’s government, as Turkey offers support
to the rebels.  ‘Standing Strong’  Ozel shook hands of residents in Akcakale and at one point
raised his fist in the air, saying today: “We are here, we are
standing strong,” NTV reported. No firing was reported
yesterday.  Syria is not looking for a military confrontation with
Turkey and is investigating the shelling that caused the five
deaths, Jihad Makdissi, Syria’s Foreign Ministry spokesman, said
today in a phone interview.  “Syria is in a self-defensive mode and we will act
accordingly, but we are not looking for any military
confrontation,” he said. “What happened was an incident not an
attack. This incident is because of the presence of armed groups
in that area.”  United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said in Paris
yesterday that the Assad regime should enact an immediate cease-
fire which the rebels should accept. In an e-mailed statement
today, Makdissi said the Syrian government has informed Ban that
Syria had tried that suggestion twice before and “armed
groups” used it to spread out and carry out attacks that
resulted in high casualties.  ‘Armed Groups’  At least 63 people have been killed across Syria today,
including 42 in Damascus and its suburbs, according to the Local
Coordination Committees in Syria.  Makdissi said Syria asked Ban to send envoys to the
countries that “finance, train, arms and give refuge to the
armed groups,” including  Saudi Arabia , Qatar and Turkey to use
their influence with the rebels to commit them to a cease-fire.  Turkey denies providing weapons or training Syrian rebels,
allegations that sparked concern over alleged meddling by Turkey
in Syrian affairs.  Tim Ash, head of emerging market research at Standard Bank
Group Ltd., wrote in e-mailed comments today that he does not
expect border tensions to “end up in a full-scale Turko-Syrian
war.”  “I can see a more aggressive Turkish response, relatively
small-scale, targeted, cross border incursions to take out
specific threats,” Ash said. Border tensions were emerging as a
significant domestic political issue, which Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government will want to show it is able to deal
with “decisively.”  Syrian ‘Quagmire’  After the June incident when Syria shot down a Turkish
warplane it said was in its airspace, Turkey warned Assad’s
units they faced attack if they came too close to the border.  “There is no public support for a war with Syria and
Turkey is unwilling to enter a quagmire in Syria,” Ali Tekin,
an assistant professor at the international relations department
of Bilkent University, said by telephone today. “The government
is aware that the political and economic cost of such an
adventure would be heavy.”  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which called the
attack on Akcakale “a flagrant breach of international law,”
yesterday praised Turkey’s restraint and assured the Turkish
government of the alliance’s military support if it’s attacked.  Schools in Akcakale were opened today after almost three
weeks of interruption due to the cross-border shelling from
Syria, the state-run Anatolia news agency reported, citing
education officials. About 30,000 students were affected by the
school closures, Anatolia said.  Hundreds of Syrian refugees flee to Turkey daily as Syrian
rebels engage in fierce clashes with Syrian troops across the
border. Sporadic gunfire from clashes between the rebels and
Syrian forces could be heard from some areas along the Turkish
border today, Anatolia reported. More than 96,000 Syrian
refugees are in the country, Turkey’s disaster management
authority said on Oct. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  