-- Vietnam’s Dollar Bonds Defy Moody’s Downgrade: Southeast Asia
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-10-11T05:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/vietnam-s-dollar-bonds-defy-moody-s-downgrade-southeast-asia.html
Vietnam’s dollar bonds  are defying a
credit downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service as efforts by the
government to stabilize the economy since 2011 show progress.  The average  yield  on Vietnamese debt fell to a record low
of 4.06 percent on Oct. 10, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global index, even after Moody’s said Sept. 28 there was an
“elevated risk” that the government may have to bear the cost
of recapitalizing banks. Pictet Asset Management plans to add to
its holdings of the nation’s securities and  Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc (ADN)  said it will maintain its investments.  “Compared to a year ago, the development in  Vietnam  has
been quite good, especially on the macro side,” Wee-Ming Ting,
the Singapore-based head of Asian fixed income at Pictet, which
oversees more than $23 billion in emerging-market debt, said in
a phone interview on Oct. 8. “We still keep an eye on what’s
happening on the banking side.”  Moody’s cut Vietnam’s government bond rating by one level
to B2, five steps below investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s  in
June raised the outlook to stable from negative on its BB-
rating, the third-highest junk level, and on Sept. 26 said the
risks facing Vietnam’s banking industry had eased.  Fitch Ratings 
has maintained a B+ rating, the fourth-highest non-investment
ranking, since July 2010.  Vietnam’s dollar notes handed investors a return of 26
percent in the past year, the second-best performance among 11
sovereign indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Rating Actions  Almost half the time, government bond yields fall when a
rating action suggests they should climb, or they increase even
as a change signals a decline, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going
back as far as 38 years. The rates moved in the opposite
direction 47 percent of the time for Moody’s and for S&P. The
data measured yields after a month relative to U.S. Treasury
debt, the global benchmark.  Vietnam’s government implemented a strategy in February
2011 to tame prices, restrain credit growth and stabilize the
currency. The dong has appreciated 0.9 percent so far this year,
after sliding 26 percent in the previous four years. Inflation
moderated to a year-on-year rate of 6.48 percent in September
from more than 23 percent in August 2011.  Foreign-exchange reserves have also increased, to a point
where they would cover an estimated 2.4 months’ worth of
imports, the  Asian Development Bank  said on Oct. 3. Vietnam
recorded a current-account surplus of 0.2 percent of gross
domestic product in 2011, from a deficit of 12 percent in 2008,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Indonesia, Philippines  The yield on Vietnam’s 6.75 percent dollar notes due
January 2020 was at 4.566 percent today, while those of similar-
maturity debt from the  Philippines  and  Indonesia  were at 2.18
percent and 2.71 percent, respectively, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Moody’s rates the Philippines at Ba2 and
Indonesia at Baa3, three and five levels above Vietnam.  The downgrade by Moody’s was “an appropriate action to
take in 2010 but not in 2012 after these guys have nearly
doubled their foreign-exchange reserves from the lows and have
undergone 1.5 years of necessary deleveraging,” said  Edwin
Gutierrez , a portfolio manager in  London  at Aberdeen who helps
oversee $9 billion of emerging-market debt. “The bonds are
relatively cheap to other expensive sovereigns in the region.”  Fund Injection  Five-year credit-default swap contracts on Vietnam’s debt
dropped 30 basis points to 281 since the Moody’s downgrade,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices in the privately negotiated market. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities should the issuer fail to adhere to debt
agreements. A basis point equals $1,000 annually in a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Vietnam’s gross domestic product will expand 5.1 percent in
2012, the slowest pace of growth since 1999, and 5.9 percent
next year, according to IMF estimates released Oct. 9. That
compares with a projected growth for the whole of  Asia  of 5.4
percent this year and 5.8 percent in 2013.  The financial system needs an injection of 250 trillion
dong ($12 billion) to 300 trillion dong, according to a Sept. 4
report published by the National Assembly’s Economic Committee
and compiled by an advisory group.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam said on Oct. 7 it will crack down
on violations stemming from small groups of shareholders who
control Vietnam’s banks, calling them the “biggest obstacle”
to reforming the financial system.  Credit Growth  “We were underweight Vietnam in our funds and we have not
changed our stance,” Yerlan Syzdykov, who oversees the
emerging-market debt fund at Pioneer Investments, which has 154
billion euros ($198 billion) of assets, said in an interview
yesterday. “Pressures in the economy will continue to build and
the sovereign will need to manage the economic slowdown amid
efforts to contain credit growth and tame inflation.”  Fitch’s assessment of Vietnam probably won’t change for 12
to 24 months, after it affirmed the rating with a stable outlook
in May, Art Woo, the Hong Kong-based director of Asian sovereign
ratings at Fitch, said in an interview on Oct. 8.  “We recognize the banking sector is weak,” Woo said.
“The level of non-performing loans will take time to fix and
clean up. We also acknowledge the fact that the authorities in
the last couple of years have made strides in correcting some of
the macroeconomic imbalances.”  Stocks Rebound  Investor appetite for higher-yielding assets has improved,
helping to boost Asian stocks and emerging-market bond returns.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks rebounded 11 percent from
a six-month low reached in June, and the JPMorgan Emerging-
Markets Bond Index reached a record high on Oct. 5.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Vietnam’s dollar-
denominated securities rather than similar-maturity Treasuries
narrowed 192 basis points this year to 318 points, according to
JPMorgan data. The average  yield  premium for developing nations’
debt was 297 basis points, down 129 points this year.  “Market sentiment is leaning toward risk-on mood lately
and Vietnam’s high yields attract inflows,” said Takahide
Irimura, Tokyo-based head of emerging-market research at Kokusai
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $43 billion, said in
an interview on Oct. 9. The decision by Moody’s to cut Vietnam’s
rating was “triggered by well-known weakness in the banking
system,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  