-- Voters Equate ’Growth’ With ’Winner’ in Debates
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s   a n d   M a t t h e w   D e n h a r t
-- 2012-10-10T22:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/voters-equate-growth-with-winner-in-debates.html
To win, say “growth.” That’s the
takeaway from a survey of past presidential debates.  In election years when economic troubles are the main
issue, the advisers of candidates tend to settle on one of two
themes: “jobs” or “growth.” Then they instruct their candidate
to hammer home the ideas that the terms evoke.  A quick survey of past election debates suggests that some
terms work better than others when it comes to wooing voters.
“Grow” or “growth,” when uttered in reference to the economy,
may help win elections; “job” or “jobs” doesn’t work as well.  Consider the 1992 campaign, when  Bill Clinton  of Arkansas
and Ross Perot of Texas challenged incumbent President  George
H.W. Bush . When the debates’ preparation began, in September
1992, the most recent reported jobless rate was 7.6 percent.  “Creating jobs is the No. 1 issue,” President Bush said,
and over Labor Day weekend Clinton told television viewers that
a jobs program was “the  No. 1  thing” he would do as president.  In the 1992 debates themselves, the word “job” or “jobs”
was used more than 100 times by candidates in relation to the
economy. Clinton used the term the most. He was also big on
“growth.” During the debates, Clinton used that word or
“growing” 37 times,  Ross Perot  spoke of growth 10 times, and
Bush only four.  After the debates, President Bush increased his references
to growth,  saying  on Oct. 27, while campaigning, “We have now
had six straight quarters of growth in the United States.” It
was Clinton’s debate record, however, that stuck in people’s
minds.  Economy’s Effect  When the economy seems strong, talk of both growth and jobs
naturally subsides. In 2000, a year shaped by the Nasdaq high in
early March, neither  George W. Bush  (who founded the research
institute that employs us) nor his opponent, Vice President  Al Gore , spoke much of growth: Gore said “grow” or “growth”
three times, and Bush twice.  Although the economy was expanding strongly in 2004, the
bankruptcy of Enron Corp. and troubles at  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac  were raising concern about the U.S. economic future. That
year, Bush spoke of growth more frequently than his Democratic
opponent,  John Kerry , who spoke more of jobs than Bush did.  In 2008, a campaign that took place during a financial
crisis, Barack Obama said “grow” or “growth” four times in the
debates, while his Republican opponent, Senator  John McCain ,
spoke of growth or growing by name zero times, according to the
transcript  provided  by the Commission on Presidential Debates.
McCain opted to pound on the jobs question, saying “job” or
“jobs” 26 times, compared with Obama’s 14 mentions.  These outcomes aren’t intuitive. Jobs, by their definition,
tend to benefit specific individuals, and therefore should draw
those specific votes. The effect of growth, however, like that
of another abstraction, “free trade,” is more diffuse and
therefore less dramatic. Few people get up in the morning and
say, “I feel better because on average the country had some
growth.”  The best explanation for the popularity of the idea is that
people aspire to growth. When people see other people enjoying
its effects, they have faith that it will benefit themselves,
too. The politician who understood this best was  Ronald Reagan .
Reagan, our quick debate review suggests, didn’t use the words
“grow” or “growth” as frequently as either of his Democratic
debate opponents, President  Jimmy Carter  in 1980 or Senator
 Walter Mondale  in 1984. Mondale mentioned growth 12 times in
their first debate, in Louisville, Kentucky. Reagan used the
word three times.  Reagan’s Approach  Perhaps those 1984 omissions came because Reagan had
already made growth his hallmark, as in a 1981 speech to the
 International Monetary Fund  in which the president  mentioned 
growth or growing more than 10 times. He had argued that growth
would obviate other problems, so assiduously that his approach
drew an explicit attack by Mondale that first debate night.  Of the deficit, Mondale  said , “President Reagan takes the
position it will disappear by magic. It was once called voodoo
economics. I wish the president would say: ‘Yes, the CBO is
right. Yes we have a $263 billion deficit. This is how I’m going
to get it done.’ Don’t talk about growth, because even though we
need growth, that’s not helping.” Yet Reagan’s general “Morning
in America” theme helped him to victory in the end.  Readers might conduct their own analysis. All we can note
is that of the 25 mentions of growing or growth relating to the
economy in last week’s first presidential debate, Governor Mitt Romney had 14, and Obama, 11. That means Vice President  Joe Biden  must say “growth” at least three extra times to catch the
Democrats up to the Republicans. This wouldn’t be out of
character -- Biden referred to growth more than his opponent,
Sarah Palin, did in the vice presidential debate in 2008.  Long ago, in Clinton’s time,  James Carville  wrote his line
about what motivated voters: “The economy, stupid.” The record
suggests we might amend the line: “The economy, stupid. That
means growth.”  (Amity Shlaes, a Bloomberg View columnist, is the director
of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush Institute and the
author of the forthcoming “Coolidge.” Matthew Denhart is a
research assistant at the Bush Institute. The opinions expressed
are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Facebook, the SEC and
companies planning to go public  and on improving the  U.S.
electricity grid ;  Caroline Baum  on  five things Democrats won’t
tell you ;  Michael Kinsley  on  coming to terms with a President
Romney ;  Ezra Klein  on  one campaign without policy and one
without vision ;  Michael Lewis  on  children of Wall Street
employees  as bonuses shrink; Camille Paglia on  Jackson Pollock ,
 American art pioneer .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 