-- Wal-Mart Rises After Saying Back-to-School Was Strong
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-10-10T20:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/wal-mart-rises-after-saying-back-to-school-was-strong.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, rose to the highest ever after the company
said its back-to-school season was “very strong” and annual
sales would grow as much as 7 percent next year.  Shares of the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company climbed
1.7 percent to $75.42 at the close in New York, the highest
price since its initial public offering in 1970. The stock also
gained after  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  posted fiscal fourth-quarter
profit that topped analysts’ estimates. Costco rose 1.9 percent
to $101.56.  Wal-Mart Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  has been cutting
prices to lure shoppers seeking bargains amid the sluggish  U.S.
economy . The strategy has helped the company boost same-store
sales after two years of declines. Sales of planners and writing
utensils helped back-to-school results, Duncan Mac Naughton,
chief merchandising and marketing officer of Wal-Mart U.S., said
today in a presentation to analysts.  Sales for the fiscal year ending January 2014 will increase
5 percent to 7 percent, Chief Financial Officer  Charles Holley 
said in the presentation. That’s the same growth rate the
company forecast for this year. Capital expenditures for next
year will be as much as $13 billion, he said. They were expected
to be as much as $13.5 billion this year.  More U.S. Stores  Total retail space will grow by as much as 40 million
square feet with as many as 260 new U.S. locations in fiscal
2014, the company said in a statement. This year it will add 219
U.S. stores, and space will grow by as much as 39 million square
feet, the company said.  Part of the expansion will be opening more small-format
Walmart Neighborhood Market locations in the U.S. The company
plans to more than double those locations to 500-plus by its
fiscal 2016,  Bill Simon , CEO of Wal-Mart U.S., said in the
presentation. Wal-Mart will have about 240 of the stores by the
end of its fiscal 2013, which ends in January, he said.  “We want to serve customers we haven’t been able to
serve,” Simon said.  Sam’s Club, Wal-Mart’s chain of warehouse clubs, is testing
pricier memberships, said Rosalind Brewer, the division’s CEO.
The base membership increased to $45 from $35, and the mid-level
was changed to $45 from $40. The premium membership stayed at
$100. Sam’s Club hasn’t raised membership prices since 2006,
Brewer said.  In a presentation on its international divisions, Wal-Mart
said it would be ready for  Target Corp.’s (TGT)  entry into  Canada .
Target, the second-largest U.S. discounter, will open its first
stores outside the U.S. in Canada next year.  “We’ve had a couple of years to prepare,” said David Cheesewright, CEO of Wal-Mart in Africa, Canada, Europe and the
 Middle East . “We know Canadians well. We’ve been there 18
years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  