-- Walgreen Sues U.S. to Lift Oxycodone Distribution Ban
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-10T23:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/walgreen-sues-u-s-to-lift-oxycodone-distribution-ban.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG)  sued the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Administration, seeking to lift a ban on the
company’s distribution of controlled substances from a Florida
facility that was ruled to be a threat to public safety.  Walgreen, in a filing today in the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 Washington , said the DEA relied on “outdated data” involving
oxycodone to justify suspending distribution of the drugs from
its Jupiter, Florida, facility. The company asked the court to
lift the suspension order.  “DEA has not made a single specific allegation regarding
an improper shipment from the Jupiter facility or improper
dispensing of a controlled substance by a Walgreens pharmacy
serviced by the Jupiter facility this year, much less in recent
months,” Walgreen said in the filing.  The DEA’s action against Walgreen is part of a crackdown by
the agency on retail pharmacies and drug distributors for high
sales of oxycodone in  Florida , considered by U.S. officials to
be the epicenter of prescription drug abuse.  The Walgreen center was served Sept. 14 by the DEA with an
immediate suspension order that bars it from handling controlled
substances including oxycodone and hydrocodone, pending
administrative proceedings by the agency, according to an agency
statement. The Jupiter facility, one of a dozen owned and
operated by Deerfield, Illinois-based Walgreen, has been the
single largest distributor of oxycodone products in Florida
since 2009, the DEA said.  The  Justice Department , Attorney General Eric Holder and
DEA Administrator Michele Leonhart were also named as
defendants.  Dawn Dearden, a DEA spokeswoman, declined to comment on the
lawsuit.  The case is Walgreen Co. v. Holder, 12-1397, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  