-- Wall Street’s Forgotten Victims Have Some Advice
-- B y   M i c h a e l   L e w i s
-- 2012-10-10T22:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/wall-street-s-forgotten-victims-have-some-advice.html
I didn’t go looking for the kid. He
found me. Of course, it stood to reason, with what’s been
happening on Wall Street, that the children of Greenwich,
 Connecticut , must be taking a serious financial hit.  The end of cash bonuses, the ramping up of financial
regulation, the shrinking of the Goldman Sachs analyst pool,
 Chelsea Clinton ’s confessing that she quit her  Wall Street  job
to find meaning in life: Wherever you turn, you find signs that
an era in which a lot of children were paid to keep quiet is
grinding to an end.  Maybe the game is over; maybe it isn’t. But one thing is
certain: If you are 12 years old, and your dad works on Wall
Street, it’s a lot less likely Beyonce will be singing at your
13th birthday party.  At any rate the 12-year-old child who texted me out of the
blue simply wanted to pass along a few tips. I’m not sure if he
was doing it out of the goodness of his heart, or testing the
market for a book deal. But he says that he knows a lot of other
kids just like him, who have at least one parent who used to
make a lot of money trading bonds on  Wall Street , and now,
instead, were being handed a lot of illiquid bank stock of
dubious value.  For kids traumatized by the Wall Street downturn, he had
the following advice:  -- For starters, you need to make a point of actually
meeting your dad -- or your mom, but most likely it is your dad
who is the problem.  He’s the one who controls the money flows but up till now
he’s been a total ghost. Out the door at 5:30 in the morning,
home at 11 at night. And no matter how tired he is on weekends,
your mother always makes him take her out to parties, so when
you do catch a glimpse of him he’s  hung over  and distant. You
will need to take the initiative here. Set your alarm early, or,
even better, stay up late. Park yourself at the front door and
when your dad walks through it, stick out your hand and
introduce yourself. He needs to know who he’s dealing with.  -- Accept that you are the real victim in all this.  The moaning and groaning your dad has been doing about his
bonuses won’t actually change his lifestyle. He isn’t the owner
of the first-loss piece of the family collateralized-debt
obligation: You are. Everything from summer sailing camp in the
Bahamas to the smoking-hot Scandinavian  nanny  is probably now on
a list of possible cutbacks. As totally unfair as these cuts are
(you aren’t the one who lost all the money), you shouldn’t fight
them. You don’t want to come across as “spoiled.” If you
complain too loudly, your dad might use it as an excuse to
rationalize his failure. He will start saying things to your mom
like, “It may actually do him some good not to have everything
he wants.” The smart first reaction is to accept that you will
be making some pretty horrible sacrifices. Pretend you don’t
feel a thing. Even though, inside, it’s killing you.  -- Study the way your dad’s mind works.  If you are at least 12, it’s easy to tell yourself he’s
kind of dumb. I mean, even back when he was making a lot of
money he didn’t notice very much about life around the house.
But -- trust me -- he is really smart, especially about money.
It’s just that he isn’t like other dads. He thinks emotions are
stupid, for example, because emotions cost him money when he’s
trading. He spends his day trying not to feel anything, so he
sort of gets used to it.  Up until now he could afford to do this. Whenever he didn’t
feel something he was supposed to feel, he just bought his way
out of trouble. That’s why you scored the sailing camp in the
Bahamas in the first place. Now it’s different. He still doesn’t
feel what he is supposed to feel, but he can’t afford to buy his
way out of trouble. You can exploit this. But first you need to
turn up the heat on him, by creating lots of situations where he
is supposed to feel something. The easiest emotion to make him
feel he should be feeling is guilt. To that end...  -- Make lots and lots of new demands on his time.  Kids who don’t play the tuba or something should consider
joining a travelling sports team or acting in a school play or,
really, anything that requires your dad to be there to watch you
do it. In theory, your dad should have more time for this kind
of stuff. He isn’t making as much per hour, so his hours should
be cheaper. But he doesn’t think that way. He’s trying to “get
back to even.” He’s still trying to make as much as he did
three years ago, which means working even more. This is tricky
because you don’t want to discourage him from doing it. At the
same time, his longer hours are just a huge opportunity for you.
Because no matter what instrument or sport you decide to play,
there is just no way he’s going to show up to watch you play it.  Like I said, he won’t tell you that he feels bad he missed
your performance as the mule in “ Fiddler on the Roof .” He
might not know it himself. But when you see that look on his
face -- it’s like he just remembered he left his  credit card  at
the restaurant -- that’s when you strike. Make the ask. Which
brings me to...  -- Always ask big.  Your dad may be smart about money but he has no idea about
size. When he makes money, he doesn’t make thousands, he makes
millions. When he loses it, he doesn’t lose millions, he loses
billions. His scale is totally off; keep it that way. For
example, you just finished your first traveling lacrosse game
that your dad didn’t see, and you want a couple of little things
(a new flat-screen TV for your suite, or an ATV) and one big
thing -- say, to go one-on-one against  LeBron James  on your
private court. Obviously, ask for LeBron first. If you feel you
have to ask for the small stuff, too, find some way to bundle it
into a single big package -- say, after he’s just forgotten your
birthday.  These are hard times for Wall Street kids. It might never
again pay you what you need to be paid to do the job. Down the
road, if this bonus drought is more than just a temporary blip,
you might need to consider quitting. Breaking up with your dad
isn’t as hard as it seems. You can’t just do it yourself but
your mom can -- and it isn’t like she doesn’t also have a lot of
needs that suddenly aren’t being met. Encourage her to get to
know some private-equity guys. If you are really ambitious,
introduce her to one of those  Facebook (FB)  dudes who have so much
money they have already retired. Your mom can figure it out.
After all, you shouldn’t have to do all the work.  ( Michael Lewis , most recently author of the best-selling
“Boomerang: Travels in the New Third World” is a columnist
for Bloomberg View. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Facebook, the SEC and
companies planning to go public  and on improving the  U.S.
electricity grid ;  Caroline Baum  on  five things Democrats won’t
tell you ;  Michael Kinsley  on  coming to terms with a President
Romney ;  Ezra Klein  on  one campaign without policy and one
without vision ;  Amity Shlaes  and Matthew Denhart on  how one word
can help candidates  win debates; Camille Paglia on  Jackson
Pollock ,  American art pioneer .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Lewis at  mlewis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  