-- Weco Aerospace Used Paperclip to Fix Aircraft, U.S. Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-10-11T00:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/weco-aerospace-used-paperclip-to-fix-plane-prosecutors-say-1-.html
Weco Aeropace Systems Inc.
technicians used unapproved parts, including in one instance a
paperclip, to repair aircraft, federal prosecutors alleged in an
indictment charging former executives with fraud.  Ex-owner William Weygandt and four other former executives
at Weco, a Lincoln, California-based government certified
aircraft repair station acquired in 2007 by Gulfstream Aerospace
Corp., were charged with conspiracy to commit fraud in a revised
indictment today, U.S. Attorney Benjamin Wagner in  Sacramento ,
 California , said in an e-mail.  The executives regularly allowed technicians to use
unapproved parts in repairs, Wagner said. A supervisor in 2007
used a paperclip instead of an approved part to fix a windshield
wiper motor, and then returned that part to the customer after
certifying that the repair had been done properly, prosecutors
said in court documents.  Weco repaired converters, which supply electrical power to
systems on an aircraft, and other components, prosecutors said.
The company didn’t have equipment to perform tests required
before parts can be certified as fixed, they said.  Craig Denney, an attorney for Weygandt, 63, of Granite Bay,
California, didn’t immediately return a phone message seeking
comment on the revised indictment. Other company executives were
first charged last year.  Weco repaired helicopters, Lauren Horwood, a spokeswoman
for Wagner, said in an e-mail. There have been no known
instances in which a fraudulent Weco repair resulted in an
accident, prosecutors said. None of the defendants is currently
employed at Weco, prosecutors said.  Gulfstream, based in Savannah,  Georgia , has fully
cooperated with  law enforcement  in the investigation and the
alleged conduct occurred prior to Gulfstream’s acquisition of
Weco, prosecutors said.  Heidi Fedak, a spokeswoman for Gulfstream, a unit of
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , declined to comment on the indictment.  The indictment couldn’t immediately be confirmed in court
records.  The case is U.S. v Kuwata, 11-429, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  