-- Wholesale Inventories in U.S. Rose More Slowly as Sales Gained
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-10-10T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/wholesale-inventories-in-u-s-rose-more-slowly-as-sales-gained.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
in August at a slower pace as sales advanced from the previous
month.  The 0.5 percent increase in stockpiles followed a revised
0.6 percent rise in July, Commerce Department data showed today
in Washington. The median forecast in a Bloomberg  survey  called
for a 0.4 percent August gain. Sales increased 0.9 percent from
a 0.2 percent drop the previous month.  Companies are tempering stockpiles as the impasse over U.S.
fiscal policy clouds the outlook for demand through the end of
the year, showing inventories may contribute less to economic
growth. Wholesalers had goods on hand to last 1.20 months at the
current sales pace.  “Business is usually pretty good about bringing
inventories back in line pretty quickly” after an “involuntary
buildup” in the last few months,  Ryan Wang , an economist at
HSBC Securities USA Inc. in New York, said before the report.
“Slower inventory accumulation is another reason why growth
will probably stay pretty modest in the second half of the
year.”  The median forecast for wholesale inventories was based on
a Bloomberg survey of 28 economists. Estimates ranged from no
change to an increase of 0.8 percent.  Texas Instruments  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest maker of analog chips,
is among businesses easing stockpiles absent a bolstering of
demand. The Dallas-based company is “playing it pretty
carefully” against a “softness across the board” in the
economy, Chief Executive Officer Rich Templeton said at a Sept.
12 conference.  “I continue to believe that the supply chain looks very,
very lean in terms of where inventories are,” Templeton said.
“Take a look at some of the U.S. distribution companies, and
they are at historical low days of inventory, and they’re being
very careful because they read all the same headlines that you
read.”  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 0.1 percent, boosted by machinery,
metals and hardware, today’s report showed.  Sales of big-ticket items rose 0.9 percent after a 0.8
percent decrease in July.  The value of unsold non-durable goods advanced 1.2 percent,
lifted by a 9.4 percent gain in petroleum, as sales increased 
0.9 percent.   The inventory-to-sales ratio dipped in August from 1.21
months in July.  Employment Figures  Employment figures released last week by the Labor
Department show consumer spending, which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy, may support economic growth even as
fiscal uncertainties and global cooling remain drags on business
investment and hiring.  The economy added 114,000  workers  last month after a
revised 142,000 gain in August that was more than initially
estimated. The jobless rate unexpectedly dropped to 7.8 percent
from 8.1 percent and hourly earnings climbed more than forecast.  The Federal Reserve signaled it’s moving toward linking its
outlook for near-zero interest rates to specific economic
conditions such as a decline in the unemployment rate, rather
than tying low rates to the calendar, according to minutes of
the Federal Open Market Committee’s Sept. 12-13 meeting released
last week.  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, rose 0.6 percent in August for a second month,
Commerce Department data showed. Retail stockpiles, which make
up the rest, will be included in the business inventories report
due on Oct. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  