-- Work-Seekers Hope For Holiday Spirit as U.S. Stores Expand: Jobs
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-10-10T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/work-seekers-hope-for-holiday-spirit-as-u-s-stores-expand-jobs.html
Phil Lubov wore his favorite striped
blue tie and brought a stack of resumes, aiming to land a
holiday-season sales job to replace the retail position he lost
in May. Part-time journalism teacher Gabe Walker said he arrived
early, trying to boost his income.  Both were among more than 600 hopefuls at the Ocean County
Mall holiday job fair in Toms River,  New Jersey , last month,
waiting to speak with 25 employers looking to fill 250 temporary
and full-time positions. The registration line stretched out the
door at noon when the fair began.  “It’s not easy out there, but I don’t want to give up,”
said Lubov, 65, who said he’s spent 40 years working in retail
and has been looking for a job and collecting  unemployment
benefits  after the footwear company he worked for downsized. For
Walker, 41, this was his first time looking for a sales job. “I
could use the extra money, so we’ll see what happens,” he said.  Thousands of job-seekers across the U.S. such as Lubov and
Walker are looking to bolster their employment prospects as some
major retailers, from  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  to  Toys ‘R‘ Us Inc. (TOYS) , announce
plans to take on more temporary workers than last year. The
trend for the industry is less robust, with  hiring  in November
and December increasing at most by 2.9 percent, compared with
7.9 percent last year, as projected sales growth weakens,
according to the  National Retail Federation .  Holiday sales will rise 4.1 percent to an estimated $586.1
billion, below the 5.6 percent gain a year earlier, according to
the NRF, based in Washington. Retailers will add between 585,000
and 625,000 temporary hires this year, compared with 607,500 in
2011. The International Council of Shopping Centers forecasts
hiring in October through December will rise 0.4 percent,
compared with a rise of 0.8 percent last year.  Job Growth  The rate of holiday-job growth reflects U.S. economic
growth, said Jack Kleinhenz, chief economist at the NRF.
 Consumer spending , adjusting for inflation, stalled in August
and the economy expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, less than the 1.7 percent previously estimated,
according to the latest data released from the Commerce
Department.  Still, any increase in jobs is welcome, said  Chris Varvares , senior managing director and co-founder of
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in  St. Louis . The  unemployment rate 
fell to 7.8 percent in September after hovering above 8 percent
for 43 straight months.  Holiday Season  The economic impact of the holiday season is a “definite
plus: It helps profits, it helps employment and to the extent it
does both of those things, it can help to create a virtuous
cycle of improved  consumer confidence  and then stronger spending
down the road,” he said. “It definitely puts a shot of income
into the economy that if we were missing, we would notice.”  The  holiday shopping season  is the most important time of
year for retailers. November and December sales make up nearly
one-fifth of the industry’s annual sales and can account for as
much 40 percent of an individual retailer’s annual revenue,
according to the NRF.  Same-store sales in September rose 3.9 percent for more
than 20 companies, excluding drugstores, tracked by research
company Retail Metrics, based in Swampscott, Massachusetts.
Specialty-apparel chains advanced the most, up 5.6 percent, and
department-store sales increased 1.4 percent.  Seasonal Hiring  Stores across the U.S. have started to announce seasonal
hiring plans.  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-biggest U.S. department-
store chain, said it will add about 2,000 more workers than the
78,000 it hired last year. Toys ‘R’ Us, the world’s largest toy
retailer, said it plans to employ 45,000 temporary staff, up
5,000 from last season. Kohl’s, the third-largest department-
store company, said it will add more than 52,700 people, a more
than 10 percent jump from 2011.  Companies such as electronics seller  RadioShack Corp. (RSH)  and
 The Gap Inc. (GPS) , the biggest U.S. specialty-apparel store chain,
have begun promoting seasonal job openings, said Don Firth,
president of  AllRetailJobs.com, an online  job board  for the
retail industry based in North Miami Beach, Florida.  “The big stores are already putting advertisements up
there,” he said. “We are already seeing a lot more traffic
coming to our site.”  Online shopping has created another segment of holiday
hiring as distribution centers and delivery services add
temporary workers to keep up with shipping demands. This year,
holiday online sales are projected to increase 12 percent,
compared with a 15 percent rise in 2011, according to Shop.Org,
a division of the NRF. Last year, Internet holiday sales reached
a record $37.2 billion, up 15 percent from 2010, according to
ComScore Inc., a Reston, Virginia, based Internet data company.  E-commerce Sales  “The game changer is e-commerce,” said  Chris Christopher ,
director of U.S. and global consumer-economics research at IHS
Global Insight Inc., in Lexington, Massachusetts. “Where you
might see strong temporary hires outside the retail channels is
in the couriers, like UPS and FedEx, to handle the onslaught of
increased e-commerce sales,” he said.  Last year,  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  hired 55,000 seasonal
workers, 10 percent more than the prior year, and  FedEx Corp. (FDX) 
added 20,000, an 18 percent increase. UPS said it will release
its holiday hiring plans for this year in late October. FedEx
hasn’t given a time frame for its projections.  Fewer Hires  Other employers are adding fewer seasonal workers this
year, having held onto more of last year’s hires.  Target Corp. (TGT) ,
the second-largest U.S. discounter, said about 30 percent of its
holiday hires in 2011 stayed with the company year-round. It
plans to add 80,000 to 90,000 workers compared with 92,000 last
year.  Turning a part-time holiday job into a year-round
opportunity is common, according to  Michael Niemira , chief
economist at the International Council of Shopping Centers, in
New York.  “You sort of expect a seasonal hiring surge, then
they all disappear, but that’s not the case,” he said.  Alannah Caulfield, 20, a sophomore at Monmouth University
in New Jersey, is one such hire. She took a temporary position
last year at a Famous Footwear store, a division of St. Louis-
based  Brown Shoe Company Inc. (BWS) , at Ocean County Mall, and her
boss asked her to stay on after the holidays.  “They were really working with me and my schedule, so how
could I not?” Caulfield said. She has held a part-time position
at the store for the past year, working mostly on weekends to
accommodate her class schedule.  Permanent Workers  This year, 43 percent of retailers  surveyed  by Hay Group
said they will have more permanent workers and fewer seasonal
workers, compared with 19 percent last year. The report, in its
sixth year, includes U.S. retailers such as  Ann Inc. (ANN)  and  Chico’s
FAS Inc. (CHS)   “Last year we saw a lot of the retailers we work with take
20 to 30 percent of their seasonal applications and turn them
into permanent positions,” said Maryam Morse, national reward
practice leader in Dallas at Hay Group. “This is a fabulous
time to try to take something seasonal and turn it into
something permanent.”  Standing in line at the Ocean County Mall job fair, Chris
McGurk, 33, said he and his wife are unemployed and expecting
their first child in November, so he’s hoping the holidays will
bring such prospects.  “I will take part-time work, something to get my foot in
the door,” said the Lakewood, New Jersey resident. “I’ll take
anything right now.”  As for Lubov, he’s still waiting to hear back from
employers at the fair. He wants a full-time job but said he
would be willing to accept part-time.  “The unemployment that I’m collecting runs out Dec. 29, so
I’m getting a little bit concerned,” he said. “I’m just trying
to find someone who would value the experience I have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  