-- Yankees Would Consider Moving Alex Rodriguez Down in Lineup
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-10T04:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/yankees-would-consider-moving-alex-rodriguez-down-in-lineup.html
The  New York Yankees  will consider
moving  Alex Rodriguez  down in the batting order as they prepare
to host the  Baltimore Orioles  in Game 3 of their Major League
Baseball playoff series.  Over the past two postseasons, Rodriguez has three hits in
27 at-bats and has struck out 11 times. He’s 1-for-9 with five
strikeouts so far against the Orioles in the American League
Division Series while hitting third in the lineup.  “We’re going to do whatever it takes to win this three-
game series,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said yesterday when
asked whether Rodriguez might be lowered in the order. “Nothing
that we do will be something that is just a knee-jerk
reaction.”  The best-of-five division series is tied at one game apiece
after the Yankees’ 3-2 loss in Game 2 two days ago, when
Rodriguez, 37, became the first major leaguer in postseason
history with four game-ending strikeouts.  A three-time AL Most Valuable Player whose 647 home runs
rank fifth on the MLB career list, Rodriguez last hit a homer on
Sept. 14 and has gone 19 games since his last postseason home
run in 2009.  “We talk about different things, and whether it’s a
pitching change or pitching situations,” Girardi said. “I have
a great group of guys that’s very unselfish and they really want
to win. And that’s what we’re going to do, what we think is best
to win.”  Rodriguez has batted third or fourth in the Yankees’ lineup
in 120 of 121 starts this season, having hit fifth in one start.
He hit .272 with 18 homers and 57 runs batted in during the
regular season.  The Yankees host Game 3 tonight, with Game 4 scheduled for
tomorrow in  New York . A decisive fifth game, if necessary, would
be played the following day at Yankee Stadium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  