-- Yellen Says World Benefits From Fed QE Boosting U.S. Growth
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-10-10T06:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/yellen-says-if-fed-qe-boosts-u-s-growth-then-world-will-benefit.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen said Fed asset purchases that boost U.S. economic growth
would benefit the world, with emerging nations having the tools
to manage excess capital flows.  “It’s not the intention of the U.S. and Fed to make this
more difficult,” she said at an International Monetary Fund
event in  Tokyo  today. “On balance, stronger U.S. growth is
beneficial for the entire global economy.”  Asian reaction to the third round of so-called quantitative
easing in the U.S. is more muted than previously, with the
Indian finance minister and his Thai counterpart saying that
capital flows can bring benefits, including through investment.
At the same time, policy makers in the  Philippines  and some
Latin American nations say they are alert to the danger that
inflows of cash will drive up prices and increase the risk of
financial instability.  Asked what risk easy U.S. monetary policy poses to emerging
markets, Yellen today said that interest-rate differences do
influence capital flows and currency values, and that the Fed’s
policy is not the main factor driving flows.  Still, the Fed’s easing “is causing challenges to monetary
policy in  emerging markets ,” Philippine central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco said in response to Yellen’s comments in an
interview with Bloomberg News today. While many emerging
nations, including those in Asia, have “enhanced toolkits” to
face such complications, responding adequately and appropriately
to strong capital flows remains a “short-term challenge” for
the Southeast Asian nation, he said.  Steeper Slowdown  The announcement of another round of monetary easing in the
U.S. brings additional risks to some Asia-Pacific economies,
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said in a note today.  “If inadequate policy responses to additional monetary
easing from abroad fuel further financial leverage, the risks to
economic and financial stability could mount, and that could
damage sovereign creditworthiness,” said Standard & Poor’s
credit analyst Kim Eng Tan.  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its global
growth forecasts for this year and next, predicting the world
economy will grow 3.3 percent in 2012, the slowest since the
2009 recession, and 3.6 percent in 2013. The Washington-based
lender now sees “alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown.  Monetary Easing  Central banks in Asia have stepped up efforts to shield
their economies in recent weeks, with the  Bank of Japan (8301)  boosting
its asset purchases and the Bank of  Korea   forecast  to cut
 interest rates  tomorrow.  India  last month unexpectedly reduced
banks’ reserve ratios to spur lending and assist expansion.  Indian Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram told
reporters after a meeting with U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner in New Delhi yesterday that he “raised the concern
that it may impact commodity prices and commodity prices may
rise,” during their discussion.  “There is also, of course, a beneficial side. Some of that
money may come to India as investments, but we need to balance
both the advantages and disadvantages,” he said.  Stocks Rise  The Fed has kept its benchmark interest rate near zero
since December 2008 and has relied on three rounds of large-
scale asset purchases to push down borrowing costs and spur
growth and employment. The Fed’s record easing has pushed stocks
higher, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index more than doubling
since reaching a 12-year low on March 9, 2009.  The Fed’s easing has helped stabilize the baht, and
investments overseas by Thai companies have helped balance
capital flows into the country, central bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said last month. Indonesian Governor Darmin Nasution said the nation’s expanding economy and manageable
inflation provide scope for it to attract funds after the move.  Still, Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega, who coined
the phrase “currency war” in 2010 when he accused rich nations
of trying to competitively devalue their currencies to help
exporters, said last month that QE3 will aggravate currency
problems for emerging markets.  Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff in March said advanced
economies were unleashing a “monetary tsunami” that adversely
impacts on emerging nations’ currencies and trade balances.  Colombian Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas said last
month that his country “can’t remain neutral” in the face of
the Federal Reserve’s latest round of stimulus, which he said
called for lower interest rates in Colombia to curb inflows of
capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  