-- Wins Help Villa, Wigan in Premier League Relegation Fight
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-04T18:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-04/away-wins-help-villa-wigan-in-premier-league-relegation-fight.html
Aston Villa  and Wigan both won away
matches today to help their fight to avoid relegation from
English soccer’s Premier League, as Arsenal and Tottenham
improved their chances of qualifying for the  Champions League .  Villa beat Norwich 2-1 to move five points ahead of the
three teams at the bottom of the 20-team league that will be
relegated to the second-tier Championship. Wigan remains at the
top of the relegation zone after its 3-2 win at West Brom, but
pulled to within two points of Sunderland above it.  Theo Walcott scored the fastest goal in the Premier League
this season as Arsenal won 1-0 at relegated Queens Park Rangers,
while Gareth Bale’s goal in the 86th minute gave Tottenham a 1-0
victory over Southampton.  Arsenal moved into third place with 67 points, two more
than Chelsea and Tottenham in the race for the final two
qualifying places in European soccer’s Champions League next
season.  Relegated Reading won 4-2 at Fulham,  Manchester City  drew
0-0 at Swansea, while West Ham and Newcastle also finished 0-0
in today’s other matches.  Gabriel Agbonlahor  scored his second goal of the game in
the 89th minute to give Aston Villa its second straight win. The
victory moves Villa to 13th place with 40 points with two games
remaining.  Callum McManaman’s goal with 10 minutes remaining gave
Wigan the come-from-behind win at West Brom. Arouna Kone and
James McArthur also scored for the Latics, who remain in 18th
place with 35 points.  Fastest Goal  Walcott scored his 20th goal of the season after just 20
seconds as Arsenal extended its unbeaten run to eight games. The
score was 12 seconds faster than Robin van Persie’s goal for
Manchester United against West Ham in November  Bale’s late goal at White Hart Lane in north  London  helped
Tottenham keep pace with the Gunners.  The Welshman, who was voted player of the year by both his
fellow professionals and the soccer writers this week, took the
ball on the right side, cut into the middle and curled a shot
into the bottom corner for his 25th goal of the season. It came
on Spurs’ first shot on target.  Arsenal has two games left, Tottenham has three and Chelsea
has four, including visiting champion  Manchester United 
tomorrow.  Hal Robson-Kanu had two goals as Reading, which was
relegated along with QPR last weekend, beat Fulham to end a 10-
match winless run. Adam Le Fondre and Jem Karacan also scored
for the Royals, which Bryan Ruiz had both goals for Fulham.  Newcastle’s Premier League status remains in the balance
following its draw at West Ham. Pappis Cisse had a shot cleared
off the line in the first half for Newcastle, which is just two
points ahead of Wigan in the standings.  Swansea extended its winless run to seven games with its
home draw with second-place Manchester City. Liverpool hosts
Everton in tomorrow’s other match, and Stoke visits Sunderland
in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 