-- Bangladesh Trade Status Reviewed by U.S. Before Collapse
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-05-04T04:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-04/bangladesh-trade-status-reviewed-by-u-s-before-collapse.html
Months before a garment-factory
collapse in  Bangladesh  killed more than 500 people, the U.S.
government said it was considering revoking the nation’s
preferred trade status over treatment of workers.  The U.S. Trade Representative’s office said in a Jan. 8
 notice  in the Federal Register that “the lack of progress by
the government of Bangladesh in addressing worker rights issues
in the country warrants consideration of possible withdrawal,
suspension or limitation Bangladesh’s trade benefits.”  The office said an inter-agency panel had concluded that
the plight of workers may justify ending Bangledesh’s
participation in a program known as the Generalized System of
Preferences. That status lowers or eliminates tariffs on some
products imported into the U.S. The USTR is scheduled to decide
in June whether to pursue the matter further.  “The administration has been concerned about the worker
rights situation in Bangladesh for some time, and we have
conveyed those concerns on numerous occasions to the highest
levels of the Government of Bangladesh,” Andrea Mead, a
spokeswoman for the USTR, said in a written response to
questions yesterday. The building collapse and other incidents
“have only intensified our concerns,” she wrote.  The death toll for Bangladesh’s worst industrial disaster
climbed to 539 as the army continued to clear out debris at the
building that collapsed April 24, according to the control room
supervising the salvage effort.  Labor-rights advocates say the collapse of the Rana Plaza
garment building in Bangladesh underscores the need to improve
worker conditions in the country. The 27-nation European Union
is considering trade sanctions. Mead didn’t say if the U.S.
would seek similar sanctions due to the disaster.  Congressional Reaction  “Something very dramatic needs to happen” to improve
worker conditions in Bangladesh, Representative  Sander Levin  of
 Michigan , the top Democrat on the House Ways and Means
Committee, which oversees trade policy, said yesterday in a
phone interview. Revoking GSP status alone wouldn’t be the right
policy because it doesn’t apply to garment makers, he said.  Retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  J.C. Penney
Co. (JCP)  and labor activists have been considering an agreement to
improve factory safety in Bangladesh for at least two years.
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s largest entertainment company,
which has partners in various countries that make clothing and
merchandise, decided in March to pull out of the country.  Governments in the U.S., EU and Bangladesh should gather
garment makers and workers, unions and retailers to create a
plan improve labor conditions in the Asian nation, Levin and
Representative  George Miller  of  California , the top Democrat on
the House education and workforce committee, said in a May 1
letter to President  Barack Obama .  ‘Full Speed’  “You can’t remedy this situation piecemeal,” according to
Levin, who said his office has been in touch with the Obama
administration to set up meetings beginning next week. “We’re
going full speed ahead on this.”  Labor advocates say the garment-building collapse may help
push the U.S. to act on their six-year-old effort to end some of
Bangladesh’s trade preferences, due to concerns about worker
rights.  The AFL-CIO believes the U.S. is “seriously considering
taking action” to end or limit preferred tariff rates “as a
result of all of the government of Bangladesh’s failures in the
area of internationally recognized worker rights, including but
not limited to” the factory collapse, according to Celeste
Drake, an AFL-CIO policy specialist for trade and international
economics.  Action Needed  The U.S. “should take some action ASAP instead of leaving
the petition languishing under review,” Drake said in an e-mail. “Since it has been under review for so long and failed to
make sufficient progress” for worker rights, leniency on the
tariff rates is “unlikely to achieve good things for workers,”
she said.  The U.S. is examining Bangladesh’s trade preference “as
part of an ongoing country practice review,” according to the
federal register notice in January. Specifically, the U.S. is
concerned with the workers’ rights of association and collective
bargaining in Bangladesh. Altering trade preferences under the
program is up to the president.  The benefits the U.S. considering curbing for the Asian
nation don’t apply to apparel and are therefore “the wrong
tool” in dealing with worker safety in Bangladesh, Julia Hughes, president of the United States Association of Importers
of Textiles and Apparel, said in a phone interview. “We agree
with the goals” of improving working conditions.  “We want to look at a government-to-government summit
first, and then let’s bring in the private sector,” Hughes
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  