-- Cameron Said to Speed Up Patent Process to Boost Economy
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-05-04T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-04/cameron-said-to-speed-up-patent-process-to-boost-economy.html
David Cameron  will speed up the
patents applications process and simplify intellectual-property
rights for design companies as part of his next legislative
program, a person familiar with the U.K.’s premier’s plans said.  The measures are aimed at boosting the economy and will be
at the center of the government’s agenda announced by  Queen Elizabeth II  when she formally opens Parliament in London on May
8, said the person, who asked not to be named as lawmakers have
yet to be told of the plans.  An energy bill encouraging 110 billion pounds ($171
billion) of investment in the electricity industry, another bill
cutting national-insurance contributions -- a levy on employers
-- for small businesses, and legislation to support the
construction of the HS2 high-speed rail link between  London  and
the north of  England  will also be included, the person said.  By putting the economy at the heart of his next
parliamentary agenda, Cameron is recognizing that it will be
sustained growth that wins or loses him national elections in
two years’ time. There are tentative signs of a recovery, with
 gross domestic product  rising 0.3 percent in the first quarter,
and figures last week showing indexes of manufacturing and
construction rose more than economists forecast.  Still, smarting from losses in local elections last week,
Cameron’s own Tory lawmakers are questioning his judgment and he
may have difficulty pushing through Parliament bills that are
not fundamental to their concerns. The Tories’ coalition
partners, the  Liberal Democrats , are also increasingly blocking
measures they consider may affect their own electoral chances.  Patent Agreement  The queen will announce a bill to modernize intellectual
property, allowing the U.K. to implement the Unitary Patent and
Court Agreement, a pan-European deal to standardize the patents
process. This could mean direct savings to U.K. business of as
much as 40 million pounds a year in translation costs, the
person said. Hosting part of the unified patent court in London
might benefit the economy by about 200 million pounds a year.  The bill will also simplify and strengthen design
protection, the person said, adding that government figures show
that U.K. companies invested 15.5 billion pounds in design in
2009, representing 1.1 percent of GDP.  The energy bill aims to ensure that as older  power plants 
close and demand increases, the U.K remains able to generate
enough electricity.  There will also be a bill focusing entirely on deregulation
for business to reduce burdens on small companies. Measures are
likely to include exemptions from health and safety law for the
self-employed whose work activities pose no harm to others, the
person said.  Investment Conference  A conference with around 300 financial leaders and chief
executive officers from around the world will be held in London
on May 9 to boost business investment, the person said.  Speakers will include International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde , German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , Prudential
Plc CEO Tidjane Thiam and AON Plc CEO Gregory Case, as well as
senior ministers.  The pageantry of the Queen’s Speech starts on the morning
of May 8, when the Yeomen of the Guard, the Royal bodyguards
known as “Beefeaters,” search the cellars of parliament. The
tradition dates back to 1605, when  Guy Fawkes  attempted to blow
up the building and King James I with it.  Later, David Leakey, who has the title Yeoman Usher of the
Black Rod, will march to the House of Commons, the lower,
elected, chamber. His job is to summon lawmakers to hear the
Queen, who waited in the House of Lords, the upper, unelected
chamber. The door of the Commons, as per tradition, will be
slammed in his face.  This ritual symbolizes the independence of the Commons from
the Crown: no British monarch has entered the lower house since
1642, when King Charles I tried to arrest five members in the
run-up to a civil war that ended with his execution in 1649.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at  kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  