-- Capitals Top Rangers 1-0 in OT as Ducks Defeat Red Wings in NHL
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-05T05:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-04/capitals-beat-rangers-1-0-in-overtime-take-2-0-lead-in-nhl.html
Mike Green scored a goal eight minutes
into overtime to give the Washington Capitals a 1-0 win over the
 New York  Rangers while the  Anaheim Ducks  shut out the Detroit
 Red Wings  4-0 in the first round of the National Hockey League
playoffs.  The Capitals have a two-games-to-none lead in the best-of-
seven series between the Eastern Conference rivals. The Ducks
lead the Red Wings 2-1 in their Western Conference series.  In other games last night, the Toronto Maple Leafs beat the
Boston Bruins 4-2 to tie their series 1-1 and the Los Angeles
Kings trail the series 2-1 after a 1-0 win over the St. Louis
Blues.  The playoffs continue today with the  Pittsburgh Penguins 
traveling to the  New York Islanders  to break a 1-1 series tie,
the Chicago Blackhawks visiting the Minnesota Wild with a 2-0
lead, the Ottawa Senators host the Montreal Canadiens tied at 1-
1 and the San Jose Sharks will try for their third straight win
over the Vancouver Canucks.  At Verizon Center in Washington, neither the Capitals nor
the Rangers could muster a goal in regulation play.  “Sometimes you just need a goal,” Rangers center  Brad Richards  told reporters. “There’s a thousand things we can go
over in a 0-0 hockey game going into overtime, but it comes down
to just scoring a goal and making a big play and we didn’t get
that.”  Capitals goalie Braden Holtby had 24 saves, while Rangers
goalie  Henrik Lundqvist  tallied 37 saves.  The third-seeded Capitals travel to Madison Square Garden
tomorrow, where they will meet the sixth-seeded Rangers for Game
3.  At TD Garden in Boston, Joffrey Lupul scored two goals to
give the Maple Leafs a 2-1 lead after  Nathan Horton  fired the
first goal for the Bruins at one minute, 56 seconds of the
second period.  Phil Kessel scored a goal 53 seconds into the third period
for the Maple Leafs, Johnny Boychuk added one for the Bruins 10
minutes later and Toronto’s James van Riemsdyk ended the scoring
with just over three minutes remaining in the game.  Toronto hosts Boston in Game 3 tomorrow.  At Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, Nick Bonino scored on a
power play at 15 minutes, 29 seconds of the second period to
give the Ducks their first goal. Anaheim got three more goals
over 13 minutes from Ryan Getzlaf, Emerson Etem and Matt Beleskey.  The Red Wings host Game 4 tomorrow.  At Staples Center in  Los Angeles , Slava Voynov scored four
minutes, 56 seconds into the second period to give the Kings
their first win of the series.  The Kings will try to even the series on their home ice
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  