-- Celtics ‘Heart’ in Bombings’ Wake Not Enough to Overcome Knicks
-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 2013-05-04T05:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-04/celtics-heart-in-bombings-wake-not-enough-to-overcome-knicks.html
Late in the third quarter, with his
Celtics down 20 points, David Nikiel of Citigroup’s
institutional equity sales in Boston bought a half dozen pals
each a $12.25 shot of Crown Royal whiskey to toast the end of an
inspired run.  “The Celtics went down big,” the 30-year-old said high
above courtside in TD Garden’s Club Lounge.  In a Game 6 that included a fourth-quarter comeback and
fans’ resolve to stay “Boston Strong” in the wake of the
deadly April 15 marathon bombings, the Celtics failed to take
the  New York Knicks  to a seventh game, ending their season with
an 88-80 loss.  The Knicks moved on to face the  Indiana Pacers  in the
second round of the National Basketball Association playoffs
starting tomorrow, the first time  New York  has moved beyond the
opening round since 2000.  Carmelo Anthony  had 21 points for the Knicks, who won the
first three games in the best-of-seven series and then lost two
straight before wrapping up the victory last night.  The highlight for last night’s home crowd was a fourth-
quarter surge by the Celtics that whittled a 26-point Knicks
lead to four. Some of the 18,624 in the sold-out crowd said it
underscored the hope and pride their NBA franchise generated in
the weeks following the terror attacks.  “They’re like the city,” said Mike Kubik, 52, senior vice
president of Coverys, a  Boston  insurance firm. “They showed a
lot of heart.”  The Knicks started the game with a 21-5 run that included
three 3-pointers by Pablo Prigioni, and never trailed. They led
24-10 after one quarter, built that margin to 18 points in the
second period and were up 39-27 at halftime.  Celtics Rally  New York had a 67-47 lead entering the fourth quarter and
built the lead to 26 points with nine minutes, 48 seconds left
before the Celtics used a 20-0 run to pull within 75-69 with
5:44 left. Boston twice got within four points before Anthony
scored five straight points to give the Knicks a comfortable
margin.  Maggie Thibault, 54, of Manchester,  New Hampshire , looked
beyond the loss to what the game meant as an antidote to the
grief brought on by the bombings.  “It was an excellent night,” she said. “Nobody was held
back, we were all here together and it’s heartwarming.”  Doris Charette turned the trip to the game from her home in
Pascoag,  Rhode Island , into a symbol of defiance.  “We’re not going to let anybody tell us how to live and
how we’re going to celebrate,” she said.  Marathon Jackets  Boston Marathon jackets could be seen sprinkled throughout
the Garden, which is less than two miles from the finish line
where the bombs went off, killing three and injuring more than
260 people.  Stan Luniewicz, 60, of Walpole, Massachusetts, in his blue
and yellow windbreaker, ran his 29th race this year and said he
finished two minutes ahead of the explosions.  “Something like this helps big time,” he said of Game 6.  The city’s other professional sports teams have served a
similar role. In the first Bruins home hockey game after the
bombings, fans broke into an a cappella version of “The Star-
Spangled Banner” that left some in attendance teary. In the
first Red Sox home game after the marathon attacks, designated
hitter  David Ortiz  declared to thunderous applause, “This is
our (expletive) city!”  The Knicks-Celtics game was one of four NBA contests last
night. The Pacers completed a 4-2 series win with an 81-73
victory at the  Atlanta Hawks ;  Kevin Durant  had 27 points as the
Oklahoma City Thunder won 103-94 at the  Houston Rockets  to
capture their series by four games to two, and the  Memphis
Grizzlies  also won 4-2, defeating the visiting Los Angeles
Clippers 118-105.  No Quitting  Pre-game festivities in Boston last night relied heavily on
the themes of grit and determination by an aging Celtics squad.
A video shown on the scoreboard that drew loud applause and
hoots and screeches proclaimed, “Quitting is not in Boston’s
DNA.”  The video featured clips of the Red Sox comeback victory
against the  New York Yankees  in 2004 when Boston was down 0-3
and then rallied to win the pennant and  World Series .  Fans were also reminded in the video of the Knicks wearing
black street clothes before Game 5 to signify the Celtics’
impending death in the series.  “That’s the stupidest thing I’ve ever seen,” said Brenden
Joseph, 25, a doorman at Sullivan’s Tap, one of the many
barrooms and pubs whose business was lifted by the Celtics’
success in extending their season with wins in Games 4 and 5.
Joseph said the Knicks’ wardrobe message only succeeded in
galvanizing Boston’s will.  ‘Healing Process’  Crowds filtered onto Causeway Street outside the Garden
hours before the game, some making their way into establishments
such as The Four’s, where manager Jim Taggart, 48, juggled a
full house of 390 diners and a one-hour waiting list.  “Sports helps the healing process,” he said of the
Celtics’ influence in the wake of tragedy. “It’s a way for
people to be together, to talk about other things for a bit.”  Hawking “Boston Strong” t-shirts on the sidewalk was
Damon Ely, 20, who lives just outside the city in the town of
Brookline, his family’s house a 10-minute walk from the marathon
course. “I watched it many times,” he said.  With a portion of sales going to help the bombing victims,
most customers simply say, when paying, “I’m glad I can help,”
he said.  Back inside TD Garden, Jane Cavicchi, 53, of Grafton,
 Massachusetts , stayed hopeful until the final buzzer.  “They did their best,” she said.  At the end of the Celtics’ overtime win at home last
weekend in Game 4, Cavicchi encountered a Knicks fan clad in the
team’s orange and blue who complimented the Celtics, saying,
“After all you’ve been through, you deserved to win.”  Cavicchi was so touched by his thoughtfulness, she said,
she bought him a beer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  