-- Philippines Mulls Property-Loan Curbs, Rejects Capital Controls
-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-05-05T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-04/tetangco-says-no-plans-currently-for-philippine-capital-controls.html
The  Philippines  may further limit
property loans to prevent a housing bubble as it uses lower
interest rates rather than capital controls to deter inflows.  “We plan to reference real-estate exposure to adjusted
capital of banks,” Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said in e-mailed replies on May 4. The nation isn’t
considering capital controls for now, he said in an interview at
an Asian Development Bank meeting in India the same day.  The Philippines has cut borrowing costs, banned foreign
funds from special deposit accounts and eased rules for
outflows, striving to manage an investment influx lured by
economic growth exceeding 6 percent and improved credit ratings.
Cheaper loans stoked an 18.9 percent climb in property lending
and investment to a record 561.6 billion pesos ($13.7 billion)
in the first half of 2012, central bank data show.  “We observe that financing terms are getting more and more
attractive so we’d like to closely monitor this,” Tetangco said
in the e-mail. While there are no signs of bubbles in the low
and middle segments of real estate, “strong supply can outstrip
demand eventually” in the high-end housing market, he said.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index  climbed  1.7 percent to
a record 7,215.35 on May 3, the day after Standard & Poor’s
raised the nation’s sovereign rating to investment grade,
following a similar step by Fitch Ratings in March. The peso
closed at 40.903 per dollar, the strongest level in a month.  Aquino’s Push  President Benigno Aquino is fighting graft and tax evasion
to contain the budget deficit, increasing spending to a record
and seeking over $17 billion of infrastructure investment to
spur growth to as much as 7 percent this year.  The $225 billion  economy  expanded 6.6 percent in 2012, one
of the fastest rates in Asia.  Bangko Sentral last month cut the rate it pays on special
deposit accounts for a third time this year to 2 percent while
keeping the  benchmark rate  at a record-low 3.5 percent. The
central bank is considering “refinements” to the so-called
SDA, Tetangco said on April 27.  Real-estate lending by banks is currently capped at  20
percent  of total outstanding loans, with some exclusions. Rising
prices have spurred developers including  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI)  to
build more homes.  Asian nations such as the Philippines,  Thailand  and South
Korea have signaled concern that currency gains threaten to hurt
export competitiveness.  Peso’s Rise  The peso has appreciated about 3 percent in the past 12
months, the best performance after the Thai baht in a basket of
11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “There are many difficulties associated with capital
controls, particularly on the administrative side,” Tetangco
said in the interview near New Delhi at the ADB’s annual
meeting. “We’d rather see if there is a need to sharpen the
tools that we have in the enhanced toolkit as a response to
further inflows of capital.”  The central bank will assess the impact of previous SDA
rate reductions and gauge whether it has scope to make further
cuts, Tetangco said in the e-mail. The monetary-policy stance
remains appropriate amid “benign” inflation, he said in  India .  Inflation last month slowed to 2.8 percent, according to
the  median estimate  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
before a report due May 7. It eased to 3.2 percent in March. At
the same time,  money-supply growth  quickened to 11.41 percent
that month, the fastest in almost three years.  “There remains a need for us to raise the investment rate,
particularly given that there is sufficient liquidity in the
system which has to be channeled to productive use,” Tetangco
said in India. “It’s a good time for investors to take
advantage of this liquidity, which is available at historically
low interest rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at   cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ; 