-- Iceland’s Progressives Start Talks With Independence Party
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-05-04T18:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-04/iceland-s-progressives-start-talks-with-independence-party-1-.html
Iceland’s  Progressive Party  will start
talks on forming a government with the  Independence Party ,
seeking a coalition that will ease households’ debt burdens and
impose writedowns on creditors in the nation’s failed banks.  After earlier this week receiving a mandate from President
Olafur R. Grimsson, the Progressive Party will “begin formal
government formation discussions” with the Independence Party,
Chairman Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson said in an e-mailed
statement. The Progressives jumped 9.6 percentage points to 24.4
percent in the April 27 elections, second behind the
Independence Party, which won 26.7 percent.  “My estimation of the preparatory discussions between
myself and the chairman of the Independence Party is that
there’s a good will on his behalf to work on implementing
actions because of the debt problems, with results for
households in the forefront,” Gunnlaugsson said.  The opposition parties attracted voters burdened by
inflation-linked mortgages with promises of debt-forgiveness of
as much as 20 percent as well as tax cuts. Icelanders owe
domestic banks about 1.43 trillion kronur ($12.3 billion) and
have struggled to keep up with debt payments as consumer price
increases have averaged more than 7 percent over the past four
years. They eased to 3.3 percent last month after interest rate
increases from the central bank and as the krona strengthened.  Accepting Writedowns  The island’s economy collapsed in 2008 after its three-
largest banks failed, defaulting on $85 billion in debt.
Following the failure, the country received a $4.6 billion
bailout from the  International Monetary Fund , a program it
emerged from in August 2011.  The Progressives have pledged to cut mortgage debt by using
proceeds from writedowns on 450 billion kronur of domestic-
currency assets held by the creditors in the failed banks.  “The creditors of the estates of the failed banks will
have to accept writedowns of their claims,” Gunnlaugsson said,
also pledging that the state won’t bear the burden of his
election promises. “It’s not the aim that the resurrection of
the homes will cost the Treasury damages that it can’t afford.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  