-- India Minister Denies Wrongdoing After Arrest Reports, PTI Says
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2013-05-04T12:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-04/india-minister-denies-wrongdoing-after-arrest-reports-pti-says.html
Indian Railway Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal denied wrongdoing after the Central Bureau of
Investigation arrested six people for corruption, including rail
officials and a relative of the minister, the Press Trust of
 India  reported.  Bansal has no business relationship with the relative, the
New Delhi-based agency said, citing a statement from Bansal.  Anil Kumar Saxena, a New Delhi-based spokesman for India’s
Railway Ministry, didn’t return six calls made to his mobile
phone. Dharini Mishra, a spokeswoman for the CBI, didn’t return
three calls made to her mobile phone. A man who picked up the
phone at Bansal’s residence and declined to identify himself
referred Bloomberg News to Saxena.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government has been
assailed by graft charges since the nation’s auditor in 2010
reported that an “arbitrary” sale of mobile-phone licenses may
have cost the government $31 billion in revenue. Opposition
protests over alleged corruption have paralyzed parliament for
more than two years, delaying plans to lift some caps on foreign
investment and overhaul rules on the acquisition of land for
industry.  The Supreme Court criticized federal investigators on April
30 for allowing the government to vet the findings of a probe
into alleged graft in the award of coal blocks, saying political
interference had shaken “the very foundation of the
investigating process.”  The main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party demanded
Bansal’s resignation, PTI reported today. Rashid Alvi, a
Congress party spokesman, said the CBI was investigating the
matter, and that whoever was responsible for wrongdoing will be
punished, according to the PTI report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  