-- Islanders Even NHL Series Against Pittsburgh as Canadiens Win
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-04T05:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-04/islanders-even-nhl-series-against-pittsburgh-as-canadiens-win.html
Kyle Okposo scored a goal in the final
period as the New York Islanders defeated the Pittsburgh
Penguins 4-3 to even their National Hockey League playoff series
at one apiece.  In other games last night, the Montreal Canadiens topped
the Ottawa Senators 3-1, the Chicago Blackhawks beat the
Minnesota Wild 5-2 and the San Jose Sharks defeated the
 Vancouver  Canucks 3-2 in overtime.  Tonight, the New York Rangers will try to even their series
at 1-1 against the Washington Capitals, the Boston Bruins with a
1-0 series lead will host the Toronto Maple Leafs, the Anaheim
Ducks will try to break their 1-1 series tie at the Detroit Red
Wings and the St. Louis Blues take their 2-0 advantage to the
Los Angeles Kings.  At Consol Energy Center in Pittsburgh, Evgeni Malkin scored
43 seconds into the first period and Sidney Crosby, making his
postseason debut, scored two goals four minutes apart. Matt Moulson scored on a power play for the Islanders.  New York’s Colin McDonald got a goal five minutes, 12
seconds into the second period and Matt Martin tied the game 3-3
five minutes later.  Okposo scored with 12 minutes, 23 seconds left for the
Islanders, who host Game 3 tomorrow in the best-of-seven series.  “We’re in the series,” Okposo said. “We just wanted to
come out and let them know that we’re not going away.”  Canadiens Win  Crosby, an All-Star center, missed 13 games with a broken
jaw he sustained during a March 30 game. He didn’t return to
team practices until April 26. At the time of the injury, he led
the NHL with 56 points, with 15 goals and a league-best 41
assists in 36 games.  At Bell Centre in  Montreal , Ryan White, Brendan Gallagher
and Michael Ryder each scored in the second period for the
Canadiens, who travel tomorrow to Ottawa.  Milan Michalek had the only goal in the second period for
the Senators, who were playing without Eric Gryba. The
defenseman was suspended for two games for an illegal check to
the head of Canadiens’ forward Lars Eller during Game 1 on May
2.  Gryba was assessed a major penalty for interference and a
game misconduct, according to the league’s Department of Player
Safety.  At United Center, Michael Frolik and Patrick Sharp
contributed two goals apiece as the Blackhawks took a 2-0 lead
in their series.  Overtime Victory  Frolik scored at 8:34 of the first period and again 49
seconds into the second period to give Chicago a 2-0 lead. Devin Setoguchi gave the Wild their first goal with two minutes left
in the period.  Sharp’s goals were back-to-back in the final period with
Bryan Bickell completing the scoring with 11 seconds left to
play. Marco Scandella had the second goal for the Wild, who host
Game 3 tomorrow.  Raffi Torres scored in overtime for the Sharks, who will
seek their third straight win as they entertain the Canucks
tomorrow on home ice for Game 3.  Patrick Marleau scored a goal with 56 seconds left in
regulation to force the overtime at Rogers Arena in Vancouver.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  