-- Israel Will Try Halt Weapons Flow to Hezbollah, Analyst Says
-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-05-05T01:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-04/israel-strikes-to-halt-weapons-flow-to-hezbollah-analyst-says.html
Israel  will try to halt the shipment
of advanced weapons to Lebanon’s Hezbollah from  Syria  as the
militant group attempts to strengthen its defense capabilities,
Chatham House Associate Fellow Yossi Mekelberg said.  An Israeli air strike against Syria targeted a shipment of
missiles believed to be bound for Hezbollah, the  Associated
Press  reported yesterday, citing unidentified Israeli officials.
CNN, citing two U.S. officials it didn’t identify, said Israel
conducted an air strike on Syria either May 2 or May 3.  President  Barack Obama  declined to comment on the strike in
an interview with Telemundo, scheduled to air on the Spanish
language network today, saying, “I’ll let the Israeli
government confirm or deny whatever strikes they’ve taken.”  Obama told Telemundo that “the Israelis justifiably have
to guard against the transfer of advanced weaponry to terrorist
organizations like Hezbollah,” according to a transcript of the
interview. “Hezbollah has repeatedly said that they would be
willing to attack as far as  Tel Aviv ,” the U.S. president said.
Hezbollah is considered a terrorist organization by the U.S. and
Israel.  “If the Syrian regime is weakening and tries to move
weapons to Hezbollah, Israel will assess its intelligence and
capability to stop these movements,” Chatham’s Mekelberg said
by phone from  London  yesterday. “What Israel is really
apprehensive about is two scenarios. One, the movement of
weapons to Hezbollah in Lebanon, and two, Hezbollah opening a
new front in the  Golan Heights .”  Chemical Weapons  The U.S. administration has been debating ways to increase
pressure on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad after disclosing
last week that U.S. intelligence agencies found “with varying
degrees of confidence” that small amounts of sarin nerve gas
were used in Syria. Obama and his national security advisers
have resisted calls to arm the opposition in Syria, in part
because some of the more effective militant factions have ties
to al-Qaeda.  CNN reported that 16 Israeli fighter jets entered Lebanese
airspace and that there’s no reason to believe that they were
targeting a chemical weapons storage facility inside Syria. An
unidentified U.S. official told AP that the site targeted by
Israel appeared to have been a warehouse. Pentagon and White
House officials declined on May 3 to comment on the  CNN  report.  Syrian Assistant Information Minister Khalaf Muftah had no
information about the strikes, the Associated Press reported him
as saying on Hezbollah’s Manar TV.  Weapons Movement  “I have my doubts whether it was chemical weapons, but I
am not excluding it,” said Mekelberg, who is also program
director of international relations at Regent’s University in
London. “At some point or another there may be some movement of
chemical weapons, to take them to another hiding place or to
move them away from the rebels.”  Aaron Sagui, a spokesman for the Israeli embassy in
 Washington , wouldn’t confirm that an air strike took place.  “We cannot comment on these reports, but what we can say
is that Israel is determined to prevent the transfer of chemical
weapons or other game-changing weaponry by the Syrian regime to
terrorists, especially to Hezbollah in Lebanon,” Sagui said.  Several explosions were heard in Damascus today, in what
the state-run Syrian Arab  News Agency  said was an Israeli
missile attack targeting a research center in the suburb of
Jamraya. Casualties were reported, according to news agency,
which didn’t elaborate.  In January, Israeli jets hit Syrian trucks carrying anti-
aircraft missiles for Hezbollah across the border into Lebanon.
It was Israel’s first strike inside Syria since the start of the
March 2011 popular uprising against Assad that’s since become
into a civil war claiming more than 70,000 lives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  