-- Knicks Beat Celtics 88-80 to Wrap Up NBA Playoff Series Win
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-05-04T04:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-04/knicks-defeat-celtics-88-80-to-wrap-up-nba-playoff-series-win.html
Carmelo Anthony had 21 points and the
 New York Knicks  survived a late Boston rally to win 88-80 and
wrap up their first-round National Basketball Association series
against the  Boston Celtics  on the third try.  The Knicks, who took the first three games in the best-of-
seven series before losing the next two, nearly blew a 26-point
fourth-quarter lead last night before winning at Boston’s TD
Garden for their first playoff series victory since 2000.  “It was an ugly series because neither team could really
score, but we did what we had to do to get out of this round,”
Knicks coach  Mike Woodson  told reporters. “We were up 3-0. I
don’t think it was that we relaxed, they just wouldn’t quit.”  The Knicks will play the  Indiana Pacers  in the second
round, with Game 1 tomorrow at Madison Square Garden in New
York.  David West  and  George Hill  had 21 points apiece as the
Pacers completed a 4-2 series win with an 81-73 victory at the
 Atlanta Hawks  last night.  Also last night, the Memphis Grizzlies and Oklahoma City
Thunder both finished off first-round series and advanced to
face each other in the second round. Game 1 in their series is
tomorrow at Oklahoma City.  Kevin Durant  had 27 points as the Thunder won 103-94 at the
 Houston Rockets  to capture their series by four games to two.
Memphis also won 4-2, defeating the visiting Los Angeles
Clippers 118-105.  Nets-Bulls Finale  Tonight, the Brooklyn Nets host the  Chicago Bulls  in Game 7
of their series. The Nets have won the last two games after
falling behind 3-1 in their series.  The Knicks had not won a playoff series since 2000, when
they beat the Toronto Raptors and Miami Heat before falling to
the Pacers in the Eastern Conference finals.  “It’s a small step, but it’s a giant step,” Knicks center
 Tyson Chandler  said, “because if you know the history, this
franchise has struggled.”  The Knicks started the game with a 21-5 run that included
three 3-pointers by Pablo Prigioni, and never trailed. They led
24-10 after one quarter, built that margin to 18 points in the
second period and were up 39-27 at halftime.  New York had a 67-47 lead entering the fourth quarter and
built the lead to 26 points with nine minutes, 48 seconds left
before the Celtics used a 20-0 run to pull within 75-69 with
5:44 left. Boston twice got within four points before Anthony
scored five straight points to give the Knicks a comfortable
margin.  ‘Gathered Ourselves’  “They made a hell of a run, but my guys they stood up and
they made the plays they needed to get the win,” Woodson said
in a news conference. “We gathered ourselves and got our
composure and were able to get it done.”  The Celtics got seven points from  Jeff Green  and six apiece
from  Paul Pierce  and Avery Bradley on the 20-0 run.  “We always thought we had a chance, I guess it just ran
out of gas toward the end,” Green said. “We came together, we
said, ‘If we have to go out, we’ll go out fighting.’”  Boston coach Doc Rivers said the frantic rally was a
microcosm of the Celtics’ season.  “I think we’ve been counted out four or five times this
year, and each time we just fought back,” Rivers told
reporters. “It was amazing to see, we really never gave our
fans anything to cheer about until then.”  The Celtics were trying to become the fourth team in NBA
history to force a seventh game after losing the first three
games of a playoff series.  The 1951 Knicks rallied from a 3-0 deficit before losing
Game 7 to the Rochester Royals in the NBA Finals. The 1994
Denver Nuggets and 2003 Portland Trail Blazers also forced a
seventh game after falling behind 3-0.  Mutual Love  Green led the Celtics with 21 points.  Kevin Garnett , 36,
who completed his 18th NBA season, had 15 points and 10 rebounds
and exchanged a long hug with Rivers as he left the game in the
closing seconds.  “He told me he loved me, and I told him I loved him,”
Rivers said. “He’s walking off the floor playing 40-some
minutes and he was checking on me to see how I was, and that’s
Kevin Garnett in a nutshell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  