-- Reliance’s Mukesh Ambani in Talks to Buy IMG: Indian Express
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2013-05-04T06:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-04/reliance-s-mukesh-ambani-in-talks-to-buy-img-indian-express.html
Mukesh Ambani , chairman of India’s
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , is in talks to buy New York-based
talent agency IMG Worldwide Inc., the Indian Express newspaper
reported today, citing an unidentified Reliance official.  Ambani is competing with other potential buyers, including
businessmen from Brazil, the U.K. and Qatar, for IMG, which may
fetch almost $3 billion, according to the report. Tushar Pania,
a Mumbai-based spokesman for Reliance, said by telephone that
the company doesn’t comment on speculation. Two calls to IMG’s
Hong Kong office today weren’t answered.  Forstmann Little & Co. is working with Morgan Stanley and
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  to find a buyer for IMG, which represents
sports stars such as Peyton and  Eli Manning , people with
knowledge of the matter said May 2. The business could fetch $2
billion, said two people, who asked not to be named because the
process is private.  IMG and Reliance formed a company in 2010 to develop sports
and entertainment in the world’s second-most populous nation
behind China. IMG Reliance that year signed a 30-year contract
with the Basketball Federation of India that allows for the
start of a professional league.  Possible Suitors  Possible suitors for IMG may include Guggenheim Partners,
owner of the Los Angeles Dodgers; Silver Lake Management LLC,
which has a stake in William Morris Endeavor Entertainment LLC;
and  Creative Artists Agency , part owned by private-equity firm
TPG Capital, said Rob Tilliss of Inner Circle Sports. Tilliss
founded Inner Circle, which advises on the buying and selling of
professional sports teams.  Ambani’s association with IMG and his relationship with
IMG’s current owners make him the favorite, according to the
Indian Express report.  IMG, now led by Chief Executive Officer Michael Dolan,
represents top athletes such as the  National Football League ’s
Mannings and tennis champion Venus Williams, according to its
website. The agency also represents models such as  Gisele
Bundchen  and manages fashion and sports events such as Mercedes-
Benz Fashion Week and Wimbledon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  