-- Saudi Shares Rise After U.S. Stocks Advanced on Jobs Data
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-05-04T13:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-04/saudi-shares-rise-after-u-s-stocks-advanced-on-jobs-data.html
Saudi Arabia ’s benchmark stock index
gained to the highest in three weeks after U.S. stocks climbed
as U.S. employment picked up more than forecast. Petrochemical
companies and banks led the advance.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
petrochemical maker that’s known as Sabic, rose the most in more
than five weeks. Al Rajhi Bank, the biggest Saudi lender by
market value, increased to the highest level since April 14,
while  Yanbu Cement Co. (YNCCO)  rallied to an almost seven-year high.  The Tadawul All Share Index gained 0.5 percent to 7,214.06
by the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh, the highest level since April
13, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Saudi Arabia’s
bourse is the only one in the  Persian Gulf  that trades on
Saturdays.  “We are seeing the Saudi market taking cue from good
rallies in the global markets,” Murad Ansari, an analyst at
EFG-Hermes Saudi Arabia, said in an e-mail. “The domestic
investor sentiment is positive seeing the U.S. jobs reports and
the decline in U.S. unemployment rate, easing fears about U.S.
economy. I expect this strength in the market to sustain
today.”  American employers took on more workers than forecast in
April and the jobless rate unexpectedly fell to a four-year low
of 7.5 percent, reflecting confidence in the outlook for the
world’s biggest economy as payrolls expanded by 165,000
following a revised 138,000 increase in March that was larger
than first estimated, Labor Department figures showed yesterday
in Washington.  Sabic climbed 1.7 percent to 91.75 riyals.  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) 
rose 0.8 percent to 66.25 riyals, while Yanbu Cement increased
3.4 percent to 69.5 riyals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  