-- Syrians Flee Banias Region After Army Assault, Rights Group Says
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-05-04T15:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-04/syrians-flee-banias-region-after-army-assault-rights-group-says.html
Residents are fleeing the Syrian city
of Banias on the Mediterranean coast after 62 people were killed
by forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad, the Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights said.  “There has been large-scale migration out of the southern
neighborhoods of Banias since dawn today,” the Coventry,
England-based Syrian Observatory said on its Facebook page
today. “Fears of being massacred for sectarian reasons by the
pro-regime local militia” are prompting the exodus after the
bodies of at least 14 children were found in the city, the group
said in an e-mailed statement.  The two-year Syrian conflict has left more than 70,000
people dead, and the United Nations estimates about one million
refugees have fled to Lebanon, Jordan,  Turkey  and other
countries. The fighting has evolved largely along sectarian
lines, with many in the Sunni majority supporting the rebels
while al-Assad draws support mainly from his Alawite community.  In al-Baida, at least 51 people “were summarily executed”
after the Syrian army, backed by Shabiha militiamen, rampaged
through the the coastal village, the Syrian Observatory said
yesterday on its Facebook page. “Some were shot to death,
others were killed by knives, blunt objects or burning,” it
said. The opposition Local Coordination Committee said yesterday
on its Facebook page that army forces rounded up and executed
villagers before setting the bodies on fire.  “The U.S. is appalled by horrific reports that more than
100 people were killed May 2 in gruesome attacks on the coastal
town of al-Baida,” U.S. State Department Spokeswoman Jen Psaki
said in an e-mailed statement today. “Regime and Shabiha forces
reportedly destroyed the area with mortar fire then stormed the
town and executed entire families, including women and
children.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  