-- UBS to Vacate Most of Space at Park Avenue Office Tower
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-05-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-04/ubs-to-vacate-most-of-space-at-park-avenue-office-tower.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , the Swiss bank that is cutting
about 10,000 jobs, plans to move out of almost three-quarters of
the space it rents at  Manhattan ’s 299 Park Ave. as it seeks to
reduce real estate costs.  UBS last month listed 382,000 square feet (35,500 square
meters) of offices at the Midtown tower for sublease, available
in mid-2014, said Robert Alexander, New York tri-state regional
chairman for CBRE Group Inc., which is representing the Zurich-
based company. The bank, Switzerland’s largest, intends to keep
five floors, or about 130,000 square feet, at least until its
lease ends in 2018, said two people briefed on its plans, who
asked not to be identified because the details are private.  The cutbacks at the 1.2 million-square-foot tower -- known
informally as the UBS Building and featuring a large red company
logo in its lobby -- are an example of how the biggest
investment banks are lowering costs for offices even as they
restore profits. UBS this week reported first-quarter earnings
of 988 million Swiss francs ($1.06 billion), more than double
analysts’ estimate.  The company has “excess capacity, like all financial firms
right now,” Alexander said. “UBS is being extremely proactive
in managing its bottom line. That’s why they’re doing this.”  UBS intends to put most of its New York-area operations
into 1285 Avenue of the Americas, a 1.7 million-square-foot
skyscraper six blocks away, and its offices in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , Alexander said. He declined to comment on the
future of UBS’s remaining five floors at 299 Park.  Wealth Management  The company intends to keep some wealth-management
operations at 299 Park while moving its investment-banking
department to another location, said another person with
knowledge of the bank’s plans.  Karina Byrne , a UBS spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Fisher Brothers Realty Corp. manages the 42-story tower and
holds a 51 percent stake. Jody Fisher, a spokesman for the
company with Rubenstein Associates, said he had no immediate
comment. He isn’t related to the Fisher Brothers family.  UBS sold its 49 percent interest in 299 Park in 2010 for
$180 million. The bank late last year signed an extension on its
offices at 1285 Avenue of the Americas to 2020, according to
Alexander. It now has about 930,000 square feet there.  Availability of top-quality office space in midtown
Manhattan is rising and rents have been falling, according to an
April report by Colliers International, a commercial real estate
brokerage with offices in New York. There were 27 blocks of
Midtown office space of 250,000 square feet or larger on the
market at the end of March, compared with 22 a year earlier.  Asking Rents  Midtown asking rents for so-called class A space were
$66.49 a square foot at the end of March, down 5.6 percent from
the end of last year’s second quarter, according to Colliers.  For its sublease, UBS is seeking about $65 a square foot
for floors 27 through 32, and about $75 a square foot for floors
35 to 41, Alexander said. He said he expects Fisher Brothers to
cooperate with prospective new tenants, so they can stay in the
space beyond the end of the bank’s lease.  “We’ve got an absolutely fabulous relationship with the
Fisher Brothers,” Alexander said. “They’ve been terrific
landlords to UBS for 25 years -- partners and landlords -- and
they will be cooperative.”  Interest in the space probably will come from small and
mid-sized financial firms and consulting companies, he said.  “Park Avenue is very desirable, still,” he said.  Large Blocks  Spaces of more than 100,000 square feet represented about
44 percent of the Midtown office market’s total vacancies at the
end of last year, according to data from  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) , a
Washington-based research firm that tracks office leasing.
That’s more than three times the national average and the
highest by far of 22 U.S. markets, said Walter Page, CoStar’s
director of U.S. office research.  It helps that about 30 percent of the demand in Midtown is
for blocks that size or bigger, the second-highest, behind San
Jose,  California , he said.  “When you have a lot of large blocks, there’s not too much
rent pressure,” Page said. “If people have options, pricing
doesn’t get bid up.”  Banks Consolidating  James Emden, a vice chairman at Colliers, said almost all
of New York’s largest financial companies are, like UBS,
considering reducing their space.  “It really ties into the world of financial
consolidation,” said Emden, who doesn’t represent any of the
parties involved. “Do we need this much space? Do we need these
many people? Which is what’s going on with some of these larger
institutions, which don’t need as much with technology today.”  Emden cited Bank of America Corp. as an example. The
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank is giving up most of the
offices it inherited when it acquired Merrill Lynch & Co. in
2009, leaving behind a vacancy of about 3 million square feet at
lower Manhattan’s Brookfield Place, formerly known as the World
Financial Center.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  