-- Hull Earns Promotion to Premier League After Draw With Cardiff
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-04T15:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-04/hull-earns-promotion-to-premier-league-after-draw-with-cardiff.html
Hull City earned promotion back to
English soccer’s Premier League after a three-year absence
following a 2-2 draw with Cardiff City.  The tie gave Hull a runner-up finish to Cardiff in the
second-tier Championship. The top two teams in the league are
automatically promoted to the top division, with the next four
teams entering a playoff for a third spot.  Hull was relegated from the Premier League in 2010. The
Tigers had earned promotion by winning the playoffs in 2008,
marking the first time in their then 104-year history they
qualified for the top flight.  Winning promotion to the world’s richest soccer league is
worth at least 120 million pounds ($187 million), accountant
Deloitte LLP estimates. Promoted teams benefit from at least 60
million pounds in additional revenue, the majority coming from
the Premier League’s 3.02 billion-pound television contract that
begins next season, and minimum 60 million pounds over the
following four seasons if they drop straight back down.  Hull had to wait about 15 minutes after its match for
promotion to be confirmed. That came when Watford, which started
the day one point behind the Tigers, lost 2-1 to Leeds in a game
which had a 15-minute injury delay in the first half.  Hull fell behind on a goal by Cardiff’s Fraizer Campbell
early in the second half. The Tigers then took the lead on goals
from Nick Proschwitz and Paul McShane five minutes apart.  Penalty Kick  Cardiff’s Andrew Taylor was sent off for a second yellow
card in the final minute, and Hull had a chance to clinch the
victory after being awarded a penalty kick in stoppage time.
David Marshall stopped Proschwitz’s spot kick and Cardiff tied
the game two minutes later on Nicky Maynard’s penalty after a
handball against Abdoulaye Faye.  The draw gave Watford, which was still playing, a chance to
finish second if it beat Leeds at home as the Hull players
watched on television.  The game was delayed early after Watford goalkeeper
Jonathan Bond was injured in a collision with teammate Ikechi
Anya, who had been pushed by Leeds’s Dominic Poleon. Bond, who
was playing because regular starter Manuel Almunia was injured
in the warmup, was taken off on a stretcher and replaced by Jack
Bonham, who was making his professional debut.  Poleon gave Leeds the lead in the 42nd minute following a
mix-up between Bonham and defender Joel Ekstrand. Watford’s
Almen Abdi then tied the score in first-half stoppage time.  McCormack Scores  Watford went down to 10 men in the 60th minute when Troy
Deeney received his second yellow card. With Watford pressing
for the goal to send it up, Leeds’s Ross McCormack scored in
stoppage time by lofting a long shot over the head of Bonham,
who came off his line and could only get a fingertip to the
ball.  Brighton beat Wolverhampton 2-0, Crystal Palace defeated
Peterborough 3-2 and Leicester beat Nottingham Forest 3-2 to
join Watford in the playoffs. Bolton started the day in the
final playoff place, but drew 2-2 with Blackpool to lose out to
Leicester on goal difference with each team finishing on 68
points.  Leicester will play Watford and Brighton meets Crystal
Palace in the two-game playoffs, with the winners advancing to
the May 27 final at Wembley Stadium in  London .  Peterborough and Wolverhampton were relegated after their
losses left them in the bottom three of the standings. The duo
will join Bristol City, who had already been relegated, in
third-tier League One next season. Wolves were relegated for the
second straight year after finishing last in the Premier League
last season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 