-- ‘Contraband’ Opens as Weekend’s Top Film; ’Beauty and the Beast’ Is Second
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-01-16T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/-contraband-opens-as-weekend-s-top-film-with-24-1-million.html
The Mark Wahlberg action film
“Contraband” opened as the top weekend film at U.S. and
Canadian theaters, taking in $24.1 million for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
 Universal Pictures .  The  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  animated classic “Beauty and the
Beast,” converted to 3-D, was second with $18.5 million,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  “Contraband” exceeded a box-office forecast of $18.5
million, the estimate of the movie website Box Office Mojo. The
film stars Wahlberg as a former smuggler who is forced to return
to the trade after his brother-in-law runs afoul of drug
dealers. Kate Beckinsale co-stars. The film was made for an
estimated $41 million, according to IMDB.com  “I think we’ve had a couple of weeks in a row now that
were a little better than expected here in the first couple of
January,” said  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at Bloomberg
Industries in Skillman,  New Jersey . He called it “welcome
news” for Hollywood after a “disappointing” 2011.  The 3-D “Beauty and the Beast” was expected to generate
$17.5 million over the weekend, according to researcher
BoxOffice.com, also topping its forecast.  The film, based on fairy tale, tells the story of Belle, a
young girl who becomes a hostage in the castle of a frightening
animal-like creature. The film features the voices of  Angela
Lansbury , Robby Benson and Paige O’Hara.  ‘Mission: Impossible’  “What we’re finding is some of those Disney titles were
blockbuster titles to begin with, and they lend themselves to
some 3-D adaptations,” Sweeney said. “The expectation is that
Hollywood’s going to bring out some of those animation films
that did well in years past.”  “Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol,” was third with
$11.5 million. The movie, also from Paramount, has taken in
$186.8 million since it was released on Dec. 16.  The film stars  Tom Cruise , who returns as  Ethan Hunt ,
leader of an elite special-operations squad that takes on the
government’s most difficult assignments. This time, team members
go underground to clear their names after being falsely
implicated in a bombing at the Kremlin. The movie also features
 Jeremy Renner  and  Simon Pegg .  The weekend’s other new film, “Joyful Noise,” was fourth
with $11.3 million in receipts. The movie, from  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros ., stars Dolly Parton and Queen Latifah as the
leading ladies in a small-town gospel choir. They clash during
preparations for a national competition.  Revenue, Attendance Up  “ Sherlock Holmes : A Game of Shadows,” fell to fifth from
third with $8.41 million. The Warner Bros. film features Robert Downey Jr. as the cerebral sleuth created by novelist Arthur Conan Doyle.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 1 percent to
$114.5 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Through yesterday, revenue and attendance in 2012 have risen 14
percent and 15 percent, respectively. The amounts below are
based on actual ticket sales for Jan. 13 and Jan. 14 and
estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  