-- ‘Mayonnaise’ Romney Needs to Spice Up His Pitch: Albert R. Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-01-15T16:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/-mayonnaise-romney-needs-to-spice-up-his-pitch-albert-r-hunt.html
Mitt Romney, who gets an 85.5
percent probability to win the Republican presidential
nomination by the online betting service  Intrade.com , is a
formidable candidate -- on paper.  He is handsome, articulate, has impeccable integrity and a
charming, down-to-earth wife. He’s ideologically close to the
American center and can boast of success in diverse endeavors.
It’s in person where his problems begin. He’s decent and
likeable enough, both critics and some supporters agree. They
also agree he doesn’t exude much warmth or empathy or connection
to real people at a time when voters are anxious and frustrated.  “He’s like mayonnaise,” says Charles Campion, a longtime
Democratic consultant in  Boston  who has watched Romney for
almost two decades.  Democrats such as Campion see winning qualities in the 64-
year-old former Massachusetts governor. “He looks
presidential,” Campion says. That’s offset by both the
shortcomings in personal engagement and political comfort.  “It’s shocking,” Campion says, “that he was caught flat-
footed by the controversy over his background in private
equity.”  ‘Vulture Capitalist’  It took the Republican front-runner days to respond after
his rivals for the party’s presidential nomination described him
as a “vulture capitalist,” who “looted” companies and threw
people out of work. On the campaign trail, Romney rarely talks
about his experiences as governor and only fleetingly about his
success in running the 2002 Salt Lake City Winter Olympics. The
focus is on his time at Bain Capital LLC, where he claims to
have been a proven job creator.  The candidate and his campaign have shown real strengths.
He is the first non-incumbent Republican to win both the Iowa
caucuses and  New Hampshire  primary; if he emerges victorious in
the South Carolina primary next weekend, it’s almost impossible
to construct a scenario for anyone else to get the nomination.  The Romney campaign gets high marks for discipline,
fundraising, policy preparation, opposition research -- they
effectively savaged rivals  Rick Perry  and  Newt Gingrich  -- and
mostly top grades for their political operation.  They have done a superb job of minimizing what were
supposed to be two huge liabilities. One was Romney’s flip-flops
on social issues such as abortion and guns, as well as fiscal
questions and especially immigration. He has made unusually
dramatic changes, always moving more to the party’s conservative
base. Yet, in the main, he has fended off these criticisms.  The other broadside concerned his enactment of a health-
care mandate as governor of  Massachusetts  that was the model for
President Barack Obama’s Affordable Care Act. After a volley of
early criticisms of “Romneycare,” these assaults have tapered
off, and it’s hard to see how Obama could score on this terrain
in the general election.  The reason the private-equity issue is more serious is that
it goes to the core of Romney’s case for his candidacy: that he
understands the economy and is a job creator. It’s a threat when
the chief credentials of a candidate are even minimally eroded;
Romney can ask his fellow Bay-stater, Democratic Senator  John Kerry , who was smeared on his  Vietnam War  record while running
for president in 2004. As with Kerry then, some of the Romney
criticism is unfair.  Still, many of Romney’s wounds are self-inflicted. The
raison d’être of private equity is to create wealth, not jobs as
he suggests. He might have been smarter to stress the teachers’
and firemen’s retirement funds that benefited from Bain
investments. The criticisms amplify the larger vulnerability,
Romney’s lack of common touch or understanding of the concerns
of most Americans.  Average Joe  Even Republicans cringe when he tries to present himself as
an average Joe who worried about getting that “pink slip” or
making it in life. He is the son of the late George Romney, a
multimillionaire former automobile chief executive officer and
governor of  Michigan . Economic struggles aren’t part of Willard
Mitt Romney’s life story.  There is an interesting contrast with his father. The son
has more political discipline; it’s hard to imagine him
proclaiming he was “brainwashed” by a Democratic
administration on the Vietnam War as his father once did in his
unsuccessful race for the presidential nomination. It’s equally
difficult to envision the son empathizing with workers at a
factory gate the way his father could comfortably do.  As much as ideology or any issue it’s this personal empathy
gap that fuels the resistance to the Romney candidacy.  The campaign insists the Bain flap may be a blessing,
galvanizing Republican support and vetting the issue for the
fall campaign. That may be wishful thinking. It’s one thing for
establishment Republicans or talk-show host  Rush Limbaugh  to
rally behind Romney on Bain, it’s another for a blue-collar
worker in  Ohio  or a political independent in  Colorado  to react
the same way.  This is apparent in the exit polls of New Hampshire voters.
Romney, while capturing almost 40 percent of the vote, ran
behind  Ron Paul  among independents and got only about one-third
of voters making less than $100,000.  The presidential election will have lots of ups and downs
between now and Nov. 6. It’s disingenuous for team Obama to
gloat about the disjointed Romney reaction to the Bain flap when
the departure of Chief of Staff Bill Daley exposed the White
House’s own dysfunction.  Nevertheless, the almost certain Republican nominee bared
major vulnerabilities. It’s a mistake for any politician to try
to remake themselves. As a famous American football coach once
said when asked if he was going to change his team’s style to
defeat a different opponent: “You’ve got to dance with the one
that brung ya.”  Romney, when facing Obama, will have to learn to dance a
little better.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 