-- Ma Balances Taiwan’s Concerns About Autonomy While Backing Ties With China
-- B y   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-01-16T05:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/ma-weighs-taiwan-fears-over-eroded-autonomy-as-he-pushes-ties-with-china.html
Taiwan  President Ma Ying-jeou was
re-elected emphasizing his success easing tensions with  China .
Now comes the hard part: building on  those gains  in his final
four-year term without diluting the island’s autonomy.  After signing economic deals in his first term, Ma will
face more difficult issues such as China’s military buildup and
Taiwan’s political status with the mainland, which claims
sovereignty over the island, said Abe Denmark, a former China
desk officer at the U.S. Defense Department.  “There is some concern that the progress between the
mainland and Taiwan has been low-hanging fruit,” said Denmark,
now with the Washington-based National Bureau of Asian Research.
Addressing the military buildup and Taiwan’s status “will be
harder for both Taiwan and Beijing.”  Continued success in building links with the mainland keeps
the relationship from infecting ties between the U.S. and China,
the world’s two biggest economies, and may bolster financial
markets as improved relations draw investors. Ma must balance
that progress against concerns voiced by the Taiwanese
opposition that many of the island’s 23 million people don’t
want cooperation with the mainland to infringe on their
sovereignty and economy.  Challenge Not Lost  The challenge is not lost on Ma, who told reporters after
his rain-soaked Jan. 14 victory speech that he would learn from
criticisms leveled by Tsai Ing-wen, the  Democratic Progressive
Party  leader who won more than 45 percent of the vote, that he
was moving too fast in seeking closer ties with China. Ma won
with 51.6 percent of the vote.  While noting that people “obviously” approve of his
cross-strait policy, “that doesn’t mean that I will go even
faster,” Ma said. “I will control the pace to make sure people
can support it.”  The Democratic Progressive Party accepted Tsai’s
resignation today, party spokeswoman Hsu Chia-ching said. Tsai
will step down effective March 1, and the party will elect a new
leader in May, Hsu said.  Ma’s Kuomintang Party ended a six-decade ban on direct
transport links with China after he was elected in 2008, and
forged trade and transport agreements with the mainland that
boosted two-way  trade  to $160 billion last year, a 10 percent
increase from 2010, according to Chinese customs statistics.  The next four years could see new tariff concessions by the
two countries, more free trade agreements between Taiwan and
other nations, more Chinese investment in infrastructure, and
fewer restrictions on visits by Chinese citizens to Taiwan,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Shirla Sum wrote in a research
note today.  Taiex Performance  The  Taiex Index (TWSE) , the island’s benchmark stock gauge, fell
1.1 percent to 7,097.52 as of 11:30 a.m. local time on Monday,
amid European debt concerns. Taiwan’s dollar was little changed
at NT$30.006 after advancing 0.1 percent, according to Taipei
Forex Inc. The yield on 1 percent notes due January 2017, the
most-traded securities, fell 1 basis point to 0.961 percent,
prices from Gretai Securities Market show.  “In Ma’s second term, we could see not only continuation
but probably an acceleration of cross-strait economic links and
that will certainly be positive for the market,”  Peter Kurz ,
head of Taiwan research at Citigroup Inc., said by phone
yesterday.  Ma’s re-election is conducive to the economic development
of the island and China, Justin Lin, the  World Bank ’s chief
economist, said in Beijing. The president’s policies are good
for Taiwan and China’s economies, Lin said at a forum, adding
that he was “happy” about Ma’s election as the two were
classmates.  One China  The agreements Ma engineered were possible because both
sides agree there is only one China, with each party differing
on the meaning. China’s Taiwan Affairs Office said in a
statement issued through the Xinhua News Agency that Ma’s
victory shows that the “peaceful development of cross-straits
ties” in the last four years was “the correct path.”  The U.S., which wants China’s help in confronting nuclear
programs in  Iran  and  North Korea , also wants to ensure ties
between Taiwan and the mainland remain conflict-free.  “Cross-strait peace, stability and improved relations, in
an environment free from intimidation, are of profound
importance to the  United States ,” the White House said in a
statement congratulating Ma on his victory.  Political Limits  Polls in Taiwan show voters believe there are limits to
political rapprochement. A  poll  in April by Taiwan’s Academia
Sinica found 66 percent of respondents opposed unification.  “The 45 percent of voters who supported the DPP mostly
wanted a leader who truly represents Taiwan’s interests,” said
Samson Tu, who helps oversee $1.6 billion of fixed-income
securities at Uni-President Assets Management Corp. in Taipei.
“Ma will have to be aware of the sensitivity toward sovereignty
of his people in the future when dealing with China.”  One source of voters’ concern is the continued Chinese arms
buildup across the  Taiwan Strait . China had as many as 1,200
short-range missiles deployed opposite Taiwan as of December
2010, according to an annual review by the U.S. Defense
Department. Another is China’s autocratic government, criticized
by the U.S. and European nations for its human-rights
violations, that contrasts with Taiwan’s democracy.  Tsai’s Policy  “Tsai’s loss doesn’t mean Taiwanese people disagree with
her policy on China,” 60-year-old caterer and Tsai supporter
Lien Mei-Lin said at a rally where the DPP leader conceded
defeat. “The KMT has more money, and a better campaign
strategy.”  Ma also faced criticism from the opposition that Taiwanese
jobs have been lost to the mainland. Manufacturing jobs  have
declined  since reaching a high of 2.97 million in June. In his
Jan. 14 victory speech, Ma said he will look to reverse a
widening wealth gap.  Economic growth will slow to 4.05 percent this year from
4.5 percent in 2011 and 10.7 percent in 2010, according to
economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Closer political cooperation also opens the door for
greater economic influence for Taiwan. The island’s democracy,
combined with increasingly closer ties with China, may give it a
creative edge in a regional economy increasingly focused on
technology, said Terry Gou, chairman of Apple Inc. supplier
 Foxconn Technology Group (2317) , which employs more than 1 million
people in China.  Democratic Transition  “We’re living in a free society compared to  Hong Kong ,
compared to  Singapore , compared to China,” Gou, who backed Ma,
told reporters yesterday in Taipei. “Taiwan has a good chance.
Why? Because Taiwan has very good culture and DNA with China,
and this is one of only a few growth markets or growth engines
in world economics.”  Both Ma’s Kuomintang and the mainland’s Communists were
founded on Leninist principles and have historical links to
 Republic of China  and KMT founder Sun Yat-Sen. The KMT in Taiwan
transitioned from authoritarianism to democracy, with the first
free presidential elections taking place in 1996.  While Beijing may expect Ma to move more quickly on closer
ties, he will also need to spend time implementing policies
already agreed to in his first term, Charles Morrison, president
of the East-West Center, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today.  “There may be expectations in Beijing now that he has won
his second term, that he will be able to move faster on cross-
strait relations than he has -- that probably would be a
mistake,” said Morrison, speaking from  Kuala Lumpur . “There
are lots of things to consolidate right now, China and Taiwan
have 550 direct flights a week, so a lot of human movement, the
free trade agreement is just now beginning to take effect.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  