-- Thai Group Starts Campaign to Change Royal Insult Law as Convictions Rise
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-01-16T01:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/thai-group-pushes-to-change-royal-insult-law.html
A Thai group began a public campaign
to change a law protecting  King Bhumibol Adulyadej  from
criticism amid a rising number of cases, resisting pressure from
the military and royalist groups to avoid discussing the topic.  Hundreds of people in a standing-room only crowd at
Bangkok’s Thammasat University cheered yesterday as the  Campaign
Committee for the Amendment of Article 112  listed proposed
changes to the law, including reducing the maximum jail sentence
to 3 years from 15 years. It aims to gather 10,000 signatures
over the next 112 days, a move that would allow lawmakers to
consider the bill under  Thailand ’s constitution.  The lese-majeste law “has become a weapon for
intimidation, harassment and incitement of hatred among
people,” Kritaya Archavanitkul, a scholar at Mahidol
University, told yesterday’s gathering. “Article 112 is also a
critical factor that has undermined freedom of expression.”  Wider debate over the lese-majeste law threatens to revive
political unrest that has led to street battles over the past
five years in  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy. The U.S.,
European Union and  United Nations  have called on Thailand to
respect freedom of speech following convictions last year.  “The fault line is now centered on the role of the
monarchy in Thai democracy and the battleground is this
inviolability of Article 112,” said  Thitinan Pongsudhirak ,
director of Chulalongkorn University’s Institute for Strategic
and International Studies in Bangkok. “It has the makings of a
nasty face-off in the longer term.”  Reduced Sentences  King Bhumibol, who turned 84 last month, took the throne in
1946 and serves as head of state. Thailand’s  constitution  says
the king “shall be enthroned in a position of revered worship
and shall not be violated.”  The lese-majeste law, which falls under Article 112 of the
criminal code, mandates jail sentences as long as 15 years for
defaming, insulting or threatening the king, queen, heir
apparent or regent. The group aims to reduce the maximum penalty
to 3 years for the king and two years for other royals.  The campaign is also seeking more clarity on what is an
offense under the law and special exemptions for “good-faith”
criticisms or truthful claims made in the public interest. In
addition, the proposal would prevent anyone except the king’s
principal private secretary’s office from bringing charges.  The number of lese-majeste cases before the lower courts
increased to 478 in 2010 from 33 in 2005, a year before the coup
that ousted former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra , according
to statistics compiled by the Article 112 campaign committee.
Many attendees yesterday wore red, a color associated with pro-
Thaksin rallies in 2010.  Not Too Democratic  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, Thaksin’s sister, took
power on Aug. 9 after her Pheu Thai party won a majority in July
elections. Her government has sought to close websites that
insult the king and opposed efforts to change the law, a
position it shares with the military.  “I keep watch,” Army Chief Prayuth Chan-Ocha was quoted
as saying by the Bangkok Post on Dec. 21. “Our country is
democratic but things should not go too far.”  The campaign follows a similar proposal from a
reconciliation committee established by former Prime Minister
Abhisit Vejjajiva after violence in 2010 that claimed more than
90 lives. That group called for the maximum sentence to be
reduced to seven years and for a palace official to determine
whether to proceed with prosecution. Currently, any Thai citizen
can lodge a lese-majeste complaint with the police.  ‘Political Tool’  “Certain parties have used this article as a political
tool and have invoked the name of the royalist cause for self-
serving reasons,” reconciliation committee chairman Kanit
Nanakorn wrote in an open letter to Yingluck on Dec. 30. The
public should “encourage and support such an amendment in order
to bring about peace and reconciliation in our country.”  U.S. citizen Joe Gordon, who was born in Thailand and also
goes by the name Lerpong Wichaikhammat, received a 2 1/2-year
prison sentence on Dec. 8 for translating an unauthorized
biography of  King Bhumibol  and posting it on a website. Two
weeks earlier, Ampol Tangnoppakul, 61, received a 20-year jail
term for sending four  text messages  that defamed Queen Sirikit.  Hundreds of Thai royalists called for U.S. Ambassador
Kristie Kenney to “get out” of the country in a rally last
month after a State Department official questioned the
conviction. State Department spokesman Mark Toner had  said  Dec.
8 the U.S. is “troubled by the outcome” of Gordon’s case.  The European Union delegation in Thailand said Nov. 28 it
was “deeply concerned” about Ampol’s sentence and urged Thai
authorities to uphold freedom of expression. The UN human rights
office said Dec. 9 the law had a “ chilling effect ” on free
speech and called for it to be amended.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  