-- Arsenal Loses 3-2 at Swansea as QPR Starts Hughes’s Tenure With 1-0 Defeat
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-01-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/arsenal-loses-3-2-at-swansea-in-premier-league-newcastle-beats-qpr.html
Arsenal lost 3-2 at Swansea City
yesterday to suffer a second straight defeat in soccer’s Premier
League. Mark Hughes started his tenure as Queens Park Rangers
manager with a 1-0 loss at Newcastle.  Danny Graham  got Swansea’s winning goal in the 70th minute
at the Liberty Stadium, less than a minute after  Theo Walcott 
had brought Arsenal level. Scott Sinclair and Nathan Dyer also
scored for the home team, with Robin van Persie getting an early
goal for the Gunners.  “For us to score so quickly after they equalized was
massive and we played good stuff towards the end,” Graham told
Sky Sports. “We’re stood here with three points and I think we
deserved it.”  Arsenal remains fifth in the 20-team standings ahead of
Newcastle on goal difference. Swansea climbs three spots to
10th, and QPR stays in the relegation positions in 18th.  Manchester City  tops the table with 48 points, ahead of
 Manchester United  on goal difference, with Tottenham two points
back. Chelsea has 40 points, with Arsenal and Newcastle on 36.
City plays at last-place Wigan today.  The Gunners led after five minutes at the Liberty Stadium
as Van Persie scored for a 22nd time this season. The Dutch
striker ran onto a pass from Andrey Arshavin and lifted the ball
over goalkeeper Michel Vorm after being forced wide.  Swansea leveled from a penalty kick on 16 minutes, awarded
for a foul by Welsh midfielder  Aaron Ramsey  on Dyer. Sinclair
fired his spotkick past Wojciech Szczesny.  Swansea Leads  The hosts led for a first time 12 minutes after halftime,
with Dyer scoring for a third straight match as he struck a
powerful shot into the roof of the net. Arsenal had missed two
good opportunities early in the half through Walcott and
Arshavin.  Thierry Henry , who scored Arsenal’s winning goal in the
F.A. Cup against Leeds on Jan. 9 on his return to the club on
loan, was introduced along with Tomas Rosicky as the Gunners
looked to turn the match around.  The changes appeared to have worked when Walcott lifted the
ball over Vorm to make it 2-2 on 69 minutes. Swansea broke
forward from the restart and Graham restored his team’s
advantage.  Two minutes later, Gunners center-back Per Mertesacker
scuffed the ball wide of the goal off the side of his foot from
close range.  Swansea held on to record a fifth home league win of the
season. The Welsh club has secured 20 of its 26 points at the
Liberty Stadium.  QPR Slump Deepens  QPR’s winless streak in the league is now nine matches
after yesterday’s defeat at Newcastle. The west  London  club,
promoted as winner of the second-tier Championship last season,
appointed Hughes on Jan. 10, two days after  Neil Warnock  was
fired.  The Hoops trail 17th-place Blackburn on goal difference
after their rival beat Fulham 3-1 two days ago. The three bottom
teams are relegated at the end of the campaign.  Leon Best got the only goal for Newcastle to lift the
Magpies above Liverpool into sixth. Best, without a goal for
four months, cut inside fullback Luke Young before placing a low
shot into the far corner of the net.  “It was always going to be difficult for us after such a
short time with the squad, but I thought we acquitted ourselves
very, very well,” Hughes told QPR’s website.  Two days ago, United tied City on points with a 3-0 win
against Bolton, Tottenham was held to a 1-1 draw by
 Wolverhampton Wanderers  and Chelsea beat Sunderland 1-0.
Liverpool had a scoreless tie against Stoke.  Norwich defeated West Bromwich Albion 2-1, while  Aston
Villa  and Everton tied 1-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 