-- Australia Routs India in 3 Days to Win Cricket Series With Match to Spare
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-15T13:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/australia-routs-india-in-third-cricket-test-to-secure-series-victory.html
Australia  routed  India  by an innings
and 37 runs in the third cricket Test in Perth to win their
four-match series with a game to spare.  Ben Hilfenhaus  led Australia’s fast bowling attack with 4-
54 as India collapsed to 171 all out in its second innings after
lunch on day three, losing its last four wickets in 20 balls
after the interval at the WACA Ground.  Australia, which had taken a 208-run lead on the first
innings after skittling the Indians for 161 on day one,
reclaimed the Border-Gavaskar trophy contested between the teams
after losing the past two series in India.  “It’s a wonderful feeling,” Australia captain  Michael Clarke  said at the presentation ceremony. “We want to win this
series 4-0.”  It was India’s seventh straight away defeat in elite Tests
after getting swept 4-0 in  England  last year. The final match in
Adelaide starts Jan. 24. None of the first three lasted the full
five days as the touring team only tallied more than 200 runs
twice in six innings.  “The last couple of series we have not adapted well to the
conditions quickly enough,” said India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni. “Winning in Adelaide is the only motivation we have now.
The bowlers have shown they can take wickets, we need to put the
runs on the board.”  Dhoni will miss the final Test after being banned for one
match by the  International Cricket Council  for his team’s slow
over rate in Perth. It is India’s second offense within a 12-
month period.  Man-of-the-Match  Hilfenhaus, recalled for the best-of-four series after
almost 12 months out of the Australian team, finished with match
figures of 8-97 after removing Vinay Kumar,  Zaheer Khan  and
Ishant Sharma in the third over after lunch today.  Peter Siddle 
wrapped up the victory when he got Virat Kohli, on 75, to edge
behind to wicketkeeper  Brad Haddin .  Australia batsman  David Warner  was named man-of-the-match
after blasting 180 from 159 balls as Australia scored 369 in its
first innings. Warner tied the record for the fourth-fastest
Test century, reaching three figures in just 69 balls to record
the quickest Test century by an opener.  “In that one session only he took the game away from us,”
Dhoni added. “It has been a tough series. We have not batted to
the kind of potential we have.”  Australia now has two wins and two draws from four Test
series since Clarke was appointed as captain in March. South
African Mickey Arthur was hired as the first non-native head
coach of the team in November, completing a revamp of the
national squad following a performance review.  “As a team in general we’re slowly taking steps and
heading in the right direction,” Clarke added. “I want to see
us continue to have success and I want to see us No. 1 in all
three forms of the game and that’s our goal as a team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  