-- Aussie, New Zealand Dollars Decline on Europe, Before China Growth Report
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2012-01-16T05:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/australian-new-zealand-dollars-fall-on-europe-before-china-growth-data.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars fell versus the U.S. and Japanese currencies before a
report tomorrow forecast to show  China’s economy  grew the least
in 10 quarters in the last three months of 2011.  Both South Pacific currencies weakened as  Asian stocks 
dropped after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the credit ratings of
nine euro-zone nations, increasing concern  Europe ’s worsening
debt crisis will hurt the global economy. The so-called Aussie
maintained its decline even after a statistics bureau report
showed home loans rose in November by more than economists had
forecast.  “A weaker-than-expected number would likely see a bit of
pressure on the Aussie dollar,” said Jeremy Jukes, a foreign-
exchange dealer in Auckland at Velocity Trade Ltd., a currency
brokerage, referring to China’s economic output. “A drop in GDP
is probably not going to do the Aussie too many favors as  China 
is Australia’s largest trading partner.”  Australia’s dollar weakened 0.4 percent to $1.0286 as of
4:26 p.m. in Sydney and fell 0.5 percent to 79.02 yen. It
reached a record high of 81.55 euro cents before trading at
81.35. New Zealand’s dollar declined 0.2 percent to 79.34 U.S.
cents and was 0.4 percent lower at 60.95 yen.  Chinese gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced, rose 8.7 percent from a year earlier, the
slowest pace since the second quarter of 2009, according to the
 median forecast  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
data, and indicators for investment, retail sales and industrial
production, are scheduled for release tomorrow in Beijing.  Stocks Decline  The MSCI  Asia-Pacific (MXAP)  Index of stocks fell 1.2 percent as
investors sold higher-yielding assets amid concern Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis will escalate.  France and Austria lost their top credit ratings in the
string of downgrades on Jan. 13 that left  Germany  with the euro
area’s only stable AAA grade. S&P warned that crisis-fighting
efforts are still falling short. While Finland, the Netherlands
and Luxembourg kept their AAA grades, they were put on negative
outlook. Spain and  Italy  were also among the nine nations
downgraded.  “The fallout from Europe will guide  currency markets , but
I think the carnage in the Aussie might be fairly limited,”
said Besa Deda, chief economist at St. George Bank Ltd.  Aussie Dollar Forecasts  The Australian currency will find support near the $1.0210
level with bargain hunters stepping in to buy the currency on
declines toward that level, she said.  Australia ’s dollar will this year rise to within 1 U.S.
cent of its record high of $1.1081 according to Credit Agricole
CIB, the currency’s most-accurate forecaster.  The world’s fifth most-traded currency will rise to $1.10
by Dec. 31 as China’s demand for Australian commodities reduces
the  Reserve Bank ’s need to cut  interest rates , according to
Credit Agricole, which had the lowest margin of error in
forecasting the currency’s movement as measured by Bloomberg
Rankings over the past two quarters.  The median forecast of 37 firms tracked by Bloomberg News
is for the Aussie to fall to $1.  “If we’re right in a gradual global recovery and China
having a soft landing, commodities should remain resilient and
that will be good for the Aussie dollar,” said  Mitul Kotecha ,
 Credit Agricole ’s Hong Kong-based head of global currency
strategy. “The market is too dovish on rates and when we see a
correction on rates, the Aussie dollar will benefit.”  The  extra yield  Australia’s 10-year bond offers over U.S.
Treasuries will be 1.9 percentage points by year-end, compared
with the past decade’s average of 1.56, a separate survey shows.  Home Loans  Australian home-loan approvals rose in November for an
eighth straight month as buyers responded to a lowering of
interest rates by the central bank.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments gained 1.4 percent from October, when they rose a
revised 0.8 percent, the statistics bureau said today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists was for
a 1 percent increase in approvals.  Australia’s benchmark 10-year  bond yield  dropped 17 basis
points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 3.67 percent. It is poised
for its biggest one-day decline since Sept. 5.  New Zealand ’s
 two-year swap rate , a fixed payment made to receive floating
rates, fell nine basis points to 2.81 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at   greynolds1@bloomberg.net  