-- Syria Legislator Defects Even as Assad Seeks to End Protests with Pardon
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2012-01-16T07:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/ban-ki-moon-calls-on-syria-s-assad-to-end-violent-crackdown.html
A Syrian legislator defected and
fled, the second high-profile official to change allegiances
this month, even as Syrian President Bashar al-Assad issued a
pardon for offences since the start the uprising against him.  Syrian parliamentary member Imad Ghallioun last night said
he defected, according to an interview with Al Arabiya
television. Earlier this month Mahmoud Sleiman Hajj Hamad, head
of inspection at the  Defense Ministry , also quit the regime.  Assad yesterday issued a pardon for crimes committed during
“incidents” since the revolt against him started, state-run
television reported.  Syria  released about 190 prisoners
yesterday under the amnesty plan, Xinhua News Agency reported.  “Stop the violence,” United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon said yesterday at a conference in  Beirut , Lebanon.
“Stop killing your people. The path of repression is a dead
end. The winds of change will not cease to blow.  The revolt started in March amid popular movements that
toppled leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya , while forcing
Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh to agree to cede power. The
UN estimates that more than 5,000 Syrians have died during the
violence, in the greatest challenge to Assad’s rule since he
took over from his father in 2000.  Time Has Come  ‘‘For too long, Arabs stood on the sidelines,” Ban said.
“They watched as others threw off tyranny, in  Europe ,  Asia  and
 Africa . They asked: Why not us? Why so little democracy in a
part of the world so rich in human potential? Now their time has
come.”  Thousands of Syrians took to the streets over the weekend
demanding the ouster of Assad. On Jan. 13, about 15,000 people
rallied in the Damascus suburb of Douma, where clashes were
reported between defectors and the army, according to the U.K.-
based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . About 20,000 people
demonstrated in the northern province of Idlib, while security
forces fired on protesters in the eastern town of Deir al-Zour,
the observatory said.  Syrian security forces killed 27 people yesterday, Al
Arabiya television reported.  “The old way, the old order, is crumbling,” Ban said.
“One-man rule and the perpetuation of family dynasties,
monopolies of wealth and power, the silencing of the media, the
deprivation of fundamental freedoms that are the birthright of
every man, woman and child on this planet. To all of this, the
people say: enough! This is cause to celebrate and much more.
The spontaneous, homegrown and non-violent movements are a
credit to the Arab people.”  Arab League  Monitors  Syrian security forces have extended their attacks on
demonstrators during the Arab League’s two-week deployment of
observers, killing about 400 people in that period, United
Nations political chief Lynn Pascoe has told the 15-member
 Security Council .  Under an agreement with the league, Syria’s government
promised to withdraw military and security forces from urban
areas, release political prisoners and allow observers into the
country to monitor implementation of the accord.  Assad vowed on Jan. 10 to use an “iron fist” to resist
what he described as foreign-backed efforts to divide the
country.  Arab troops should be sent to Syria to halt violence after
observers failed to deter a state crackdown on demonstrations,
Qatari Emir Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani told CBS’s “60
Minutes.”  “Some troops should go to stop the killing,” he said in
an interview on the program,  according to  the CBS website.  The league, which imposed sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27,
will hold a ministerial meeting to discuss the situation on Jan.
22, the Middle East News Agency said. Russia and  China  have
blocked efforts by the U.S. and the European Union, which also
have applied sanctions, for the  Security Council  to condemn the
crackdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  