-- Belgium Is at Turning Point as Di Rupo Fights to Reduce Its Budget Deficit
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2012-01-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/belgium-at-turning-point-as-di-rupo-fights-to-trim-deficit.html
Belgium, saddled with  Europe ’s
 fifth-highest debt , is at a “turning point,” Prime Minister
Elio Di Rupo said as he struggles against faltering growth to
meet a European Union budget-deficit target.  Di Rupo won a reprieve from speeded-up EU deficit sanctions
on Jan. 11 after freezing 1.3 billion euros ($1.6 billion) of
spending before a budget review next month. He has pledged to
cut the deficit to less than 3 percent of gross domestic product
this year, as required by the EU.  The six-party coalition led by Di Rupo in November unveiled
a 2012 budget based on a growth forecast of 0.8 percent that
contained 11.3 billion euros of spending cuts and tax increases
to pare the deficit to 2.8 percent of GDP. Since then, Budget
Minister Olivier Chastel has said  growth  will slow to between
zero and 0.5 percent, forcing Di Rupo to cut even deeper.  “Today we all know that there will be deterioration in the
 euro zone  and we’ll have to take additional steps,” Di Rupo
said in an interview published in Brussels-based newspaper Le
Soir on Jan. 14.  If growth stagnates, the government will have to come up
with 1.36 billion euros of further savings to meet its goal,
according to Le Soir. Belgium’s Economic and Social Research
Institute, or Ires, forecasts a 0.3 percent contraction.  Bond Auction  Di Rupo was bolstered when  Standard & Poor’s  on Jan. 13
affirmed the country’s AA long-term credit rating, even as the
company downgraded nine euro-area nations. S&P assigned  Belgium 
a negative outlook, indicating at least a one-in-three chance
that the rating will be cut in 2012 or 2013. Finance Minister
Steven Vanackere called the decision “good news.”  S&P’s decision may help to restrain borrowing costs. A Jan.
13 auction already provided grounds for optimism, as Belgium
sold 300 million euros of  March 2035 bonds  at a weighted average
yield of 4.33 percent, compared with 5.774 percent in the
previous sale of similar-maturity debt on Nov. 28. Investors
also bought 100 million euros of March 2028 bonds at an average
yield of 4.232 percent, down from 4.511 percent last February.  Such encouraging signs have been tempered by reduced growth
estimates and the news that Belgium’s 2011 budget deficit was 4
percent of GDP, exceeding estimates of 3.6 percent by the prior
government and the European Commission.  As a result, Di Rupo will have to deepen cuts before the
budget review, which is scheduled for Feb. 25, according to the
L’Echo newspaper. The  Federal Planning Bureau  will issue its
latest growth forecast on Feb. 10, the paper said Jan. 14. Di
Rupo said the extent of additional savings he’ll have to come up
with will become clear after the bureau’s report.  Budget minister Chastel said the government should be aware
of the risks of implementing austerity measures that hurt
growth, according to L’Echo.  “We should keep that in mind and, perhaps, consider
complementing budget consolidation with other steps to promote
economic revival,” he told the paper. “We must be careful not
to break the circle of trust.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  