-- Carnival Cruise Death Toll Rises to Five as Rescuers Seek 17 Still Missing
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-01-15T23:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/carnival-cruise-death-toll-rises-to-five-as-three-passengers-are-rescued.html
Rescuers searched into the night for
as many as 17 people missing more than two days after a  Carnival
Corp. (CCL)  cruise ship ran aground and capsized off Italy’s Tuscan
coast. At least five people died.  The Costa Concordia’s captain was arrested and accused of
manslaughter, abandoning ship and causing the wreck late on Jan.
13. Costa Crociere, the Carnival unit that runs the ship, said
“it seems” he sailed too close to the island of Giglio and
didn’t follow emergency plans, making “very serious judgment
mistakes,” according to an e-mailed statement yesterday.  About 60 people were injured after the ship carrying more
than 4,000 passengers and crew hit submerged rocks near the
island of in the Tyrrhenian Sea. Survivors spoke of the panic
when the ship began listing, with some likening the events to
those in the film “Titanic.” Two bodies were found onboard
yesterday, said Stefano Giannelli, a fire department spokesman,
adding to the three known to have perished.  Rescuers evacuated passengers and crew to the nearest
mainland port, Santo Stefano,  Italy ’s Civil Protection Agency
said on its  website . Teams found two South Korean passengers in
a ship cabin at 3 a.m. local time yesterday and saved a crew
member on the third deck, Giannelli said.  About 60 firefighters are deployed in the search operation
that will continue “all night long,” he said. Rescuers have
searched one third of the ship, Giannelli said. Four tourists --
two French, one Italian and one from  Spain  -- and a Peruvian
crewmember are known to have perished, the Civil Protection unit
in Grosseto said in an e-mail statement.  Prosecutor Probe  Captain Francesco Schettino is being detained for allegedly
abandoning the ship “since we know he was in the harbor about
midnight,” Francesco Verusio, the chief prosecutor in the city
of Grosseto, said in an interview. The ship’s first officer is
also being probed, he said. Dozens of people have been
questioned so far, the prosecutor said.  Gianni Onorato, general manager of the Costa Crociere line,
said the ship had embarked about 7 p.m. from Civitavecchia near
 Rome  on a trip that was scheduled to include stops at ports in
France and Spain. The vessel hit the rocks and Captain
Schettino, after assessing the damage, decided to secure the
ship and gave the evacuation order, Onorato told news channel
SkyTG24 in an interview. A Costa Crociere spokesman confirmed
the comments.  The number of missing may be as low as 15, including six
crewmembers, according to the Tuscany Region Governor Enrico Rossi. Among them are an 84-year-old Italian and a 5-year-old
child, la Repubblica said on its website. The number could be as
high as 17, Ansa said, citing Grosseto Province President
Leonardo Marras. The U.S. Embassy in Italy said two of the 120
U.S. passengers are still unaccounted for, according to a
statement posted on Twitter yesterday.  ‘Terrible Tragedy’  “This is a terrible tragedy and we are deeply saddened,”
Carnival said a Jan. 14 statement. Carnival, based in Miami, is
the world’s largest cruise line owner, with brands such as
Cunard, Princess Cruises and Costa.  The ship probably was on a wrong route, the prosecutor
said. The so-called black box was retrieved, Verusio said.
Investigators have determined the ship was only about 150 meters
(492 feet) from the coast when it hit the rocks, Ansa said.  Captain Schettino said he was the last one to leave the
ship, according to an interview broadcast by  TGCOM24  before his
arrest. The rocks weren’t identified on the navigation maps,
Schettino said. The ship was at least 300 meters from the island
when it hit the rocks, he said.  Emergency Procedures  Italian newspaper  Corriere della Sera  said the captain may
have steered the boat closer to the coast to allow passengers a
better view of the island’s lights.  Costa Crociere said “it seems” that the captain took the
ship on a route that was too close to the island of Giglio and
didn’t follow company emergency procedures, making “very
serious judgment mistakes,” according to an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  A scuba-diving unit arrived from Genoa yesterday to search
for survivors who may be inside the ship, Lieutenant Colonel
Italo Spalvieri of the Livorno Air-Naval Rescue unit said in a
telephone interview.  Television images broadcast showed the Costa lying on its
starboard side, a portion of the ship underwater and its orange
smokestack close to the waterline. The ship was built in 2006
and has 1,500 cabins, according to Costa Crociere’s  website . The
vessel also had a docking accident at Palermo’s harbor in 2008
because of strong winds, newspaper  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported.  Glasses Crashing  The ship hit the rocks about 9:45 p.m. as dinner was being
served, sending plates and glasses crashing, Italian media
reported. Passengers said the situation on board was reminiscent
of the film “Titanic,” as the vessel tilted, electrical power
was lost and people rushed to find lifeboats. Several passengers
interviewed by Italian television channels including SkyTG24
said they were initially told by crew that there only was an
electrical problem and it wasn’t an emergency.  Cabin steward Deodato Ordona told the British Broadcasting
Corp. there was a “roaring sound” before the ship began to
shift. He said the vessel leaned to the left and then the right
before the captain announced an order to abandon ship.  There were 3,200 passengers on the ship, including 1,000
Italians, 500 Germans, 160 French and 250 from  North America ,
Costa Crociere  said . Emergency procedures began immediately and
were impeded by the ship’s listing, Costa Crociere said in a
statement.  Rescuers Arrive  The first coast guard boats arrived within 10 minutes of
the accident, Air-Naval Rescue Lieutenant Colonel Spalvieri said
by phone. The vessel is carrying a large amount of fuel and
Costa Crociere has been ordered to start procedures to remove
it, according to Cosimo Nicastro, a spokesman for the Italian
Coast Guard. The Giglio island is part of the biggest marine
park in  Europe . Giglio Mayor Sergio Ortelli said in an e-mailed
statement that there’s no risk of an  oil spill .  Fabio Costa, a shop worker on the boat, said it took the
crew a long time to launch the lifeboats because the vessel had
listed so much.  The vessel set sail on Jan. 13 and its itinerary was to
include calls at the Mediterranean ports of Savona, Marseille,
Barcelona, Palma de Mallorca, Cagliari and  Palermo , Costa
Crociere said.  Italian newspapers said that when the vessel was christened
in 2006 the champagne bottle didn’t break against the side of
the ship, supposedly an omen of bad luck.  Carnival owns 100 ships and has 10 on order. Its brands
also include Carnival, Holland America Line, Seabourn, AIDA
Cruises, Ibero Cruises and P&O Cruises. The Costa cruise line
has 15 ships and sails worldwide.  The Costa Concordia was insured by companies including
Assicurazioni Generali SpA, RSA Insurance Group Plc and XL Group
Plc, said three people with knowledge of the policies. The three
are among several insurers facing total costs of about 405
million euros ($512 million), said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because policy terms are confidential.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  