-- Cartier Turns to Discreet Watches to Assuage Luxury-Goods Guilt
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-01-16T17:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/cartier-turns-to-discreet-watches.html
Cartier (CFR) , the jeweler whose customers
have included the tsar of  Russia  and actress  Elizabeth Taylor ,
says it’s pulling ahead of luxury rivals with watches that match
the tenor of the times for less ostentatious displays of wealth.  Cartier is gaining “a lot” of market share, in part
because the economic slowdown is steering consumers toward more
discreet timepieces such as the brand’s best-selling Ballon Bleu
collection, Chief Executive Officer Bernard Fornas said in an
interview in Geneva. He declined to estimate how much share the
Paris-based unit of Cie. Financiere Richemont SA may capture.  “Bigger watches are losing a bit of ground today,” he
said. “When you are in crisis periods you show off less and you
have shapes that are more discreet and more ergonomic. The feel-
guilty factor is very important.”  Cartier is ensuring it maintains geographical reach and is
also benefiting from growth in the branded jewelry market,
Fornas said. The luxury icon may open 20 to 30 boutiques this
year, many of them in  Asia ,  Europe  and  South America , adding to
a network of 310 outlets. The company is expanding development
of its own movements, or the motors inside watches.  “Cartier’s advantage is that it’s not just a jewelry
company and, if you were to do a breakout of sales, watches are
more important,” said Rene Weber, an analyst at Bank Vontobel
in Zurich. He estimates the brand is responsible for almost half
of Richemont’s sales and about 70 percent of earnings before
interest and taxes.  Revenue Report  Richemont doesn’t disclose the brand’s sales, though the
whole jewelry business, which also includes Van Cleef & Arpels,
had revenue of 3.48 billion euros ($4.41 billion) in the last
fiscal year. Overall sales rose 24 percent to 2.62 billion euros
in the third quarter ended Dec. 31, fueled by demand for watches
in  China , the company said today. Revenue beat the 2.54 billion-
euro average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Cartier’s revenue may grow 25 percent in the fiscal year
ending in March, compared with 20 percent for the group,
according to Weber. About 45 percent of the brand’s sales may
come from watches, 35 percent from jewelry and the rest from
accessories, he said.  Richemont  shares  rose 2.8 percent to 52.10 Swiss francs,
extending their gain this year to 9.7 percent. The Stoxx 600
Personal & Household Goods Index is up 2.3 percent in 2012,
while  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the only luxury-goods
maker larger than Geneva-based Richemont, has  advanced  7
percent.  Diamonds and Gold  At this week’s SIHH watch fair in Geneva, Cartier will show
complicated timepieces and watches decorated with jewels. It
also will introduce the Tank Anglaise, adding a model to a range
first sold in 1919. The watch, available in three colors of gold
as well as a gold and steel version, will be Cartier’s biggest
introduction since the Ballon Bleu, according to Fornas.  Ballon Bleu watches first reached the market in 2007 and
are characterized by round cases and a crown set with a
sapphire. Prices of standard models start at less than 10,000
euros, while diamond-encrusted or complicated versions can
retail for hundreds of thousands of euros.  Cartier dates to 1847, when Louis-Francois Cartier took
over the jewelry workshop where he was an apprentice. The
company became one of the first to make a wristwatch, with a
piece made in 1904 for Brazilian aviator Alberto Santos-Dumont.  Fornas took over as CEO in 2002 after heading Richemont’s
Baume & Mercier watch brand and following a career that included
posts at  Procter & Gamble Co . and perfume-maker Guerlain.  Manufacturing Investment  One of his early decisions was to invest in capabilities to
manufacture watch movements, which Fornas said allowed Cartier
to have greater control over quality and design. About 5 percent
of watches sold by Cartier are returned within the warranty
period, below the industry average of 10 percent to 15 percent,
he said. The brand is aiming to reduce that to about 3 percent
over the coming years.  Fornas said he doesn’t want Cartier “to be slowed down in
Asia because of a lack of movements in the future, so let’s
prepare the ground and invest on a regular basis.” The
watchmaker unveiled its first movement designed in-house in
2009, according to Weber.  Cartier has production facilities in Geneva and La Chaux-
de-Fonds, the heart of  Switzerland ’s watchmaking industry, and
is planning to construct a new plant in Neuchatel.  The shift toward mechanical watches is in line with
changing consumer tastes as the use of quartz-powered movements
in luxury timepieces wanes, he said.  Customer Demands  “People are more demanding on quality, performance and
design, and we have moved quicker than the market,” Fornas
said.  While it’s difficult to predict how the industry will fare
in 2012, Cartier will benefit whatever happens, Fornas said.
“If things go bad, people go to the legitimate brands, to the
authentic brands and not to fashion fads,” he said.  Cartier is the “clear leader” in jewelry and No. 2 in
exclusive watchmaking after Switzerland’s Rolex, according to
Fornas.  The company is well-positioned to deal with troughs in the
luxury-goods industry because it hasn’t diluted the brand and
expanded into areas outside jewelry and watches, Fornas said.  “We are like the ants -- there is always food for the
winter when things go bad,” Fornas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  