-- China Economic Growth May Slow to 10-Quarter Low as Worse to Come: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-16T06:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/china-economic-growth-may-slow-to-10-quarter-low-with-worst-yet-to-come-.html
China’s economy  probably grew the
least in 10 quarters in the last three months of 2011 and may
cool further as export demand slumps and officials prolong a
campaign against property bubbles.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, rose 8.7 percent from a year earlier, the slowest pace
since the second quarter of 2009, according to the  median
forecast  of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The data,
and indicators for investment, retail sales and industrial
production, are scheduled for release tomorrow in Beijing.  The fourth straight quarterly slowdown in the world’s
second-largest economy adds to concerns that global expansion is
faltering, with the  International Monetary Fund  warning of near-
zero growth in  Europe  and a “substantial” cut to its global
forecast. China’s exports rose the least in two years in
December and inflation eased to a 15-month low, bolstering the
case for Premier  Wen Jiabao  to loosen policies.  “The worst is yet to come and more easing measures will be
in the pipeline in coming months,” said Zhang Zhiwei, Hong
Kong-based chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., who
previously worked at the IMF. “Increasing downside risks in
China will hurt the outlook for other economies especially
commodities exporters such as  Australia  and  Brazil .”  Growth may “trough” at 7.5 percent in the three months
through March and 7.6 percent in the second quarter, Zhang said.
That may prompt the central bank to “front-load” policy easing
into the first half, with one interest-rate cut in March and
three reductions to banks’ reserve requirement ratios, he said.  Worsening Crisis  Asian stocks dropped ahead of a debt sale today by France
after  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the country of its top rating
and cut eight other European nations, stoking concern the
region’s debt crisis may worsen. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) 
fell 1.3 percent as of 3:50 p.m. in  Tokyo . The measure added 2.2
percent last week.  In China, shares fell, dragging the benchmark index lower
for a fourth day. The  Shanghai  Composite Index dropped 1.5
percent at 2:51 p.m. The yuan fell to 6.3165 per dollar on
concern Europe’s crisis will slow  Asia ’s biggest economy.  In Australia, home-loan approvals rose in November for an
eighth straight month as the central bank’s first interest-rate
reduction in two years helped attract first-time buyers. The
number of loans granted to build or buy houses and apartments
gained 1.4 percent, the most since May, after a revised 0.8
percent advance in October, a report showed today.  Yen Strength  Elsewhere in Asia,  Japan ’s  machinery orders  rebounded in
November from a month earlier by more than economists estimated,
signaling the world’s third-largest economy is showing some
resilience to the yen’s strength and the global growth slowdown.  India ’s inflation slowed to the lowest level in two years,
the commerce ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi  today.
The benchmark wholesale-price index rose 7.47 percent in
December from a year earlier, compared with a 9.11 percent gain
in November. The median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 7.4 percent gain.  In Europe today,  France  will offer the first gauge of the
impact of the Standard & Poor’s ratings cut when it sells as
much as 8.7 billion euros ($11 billion) in bills.  Italy is due to report final inflation data for December.
Prices, based on European Union measurements, probably rose 3.7
percent from a year earlier, matching the preliminary report on
Jan. 4.  Germany  will report wholesale prices for December. In
November, prices rose 4.9 percent from a year earlier and 0.7
percent from the previous month.  Today is a public holiday in the U.S.  Hoarding Cash  The People’s Bank of China last month allowed lenders to
set aside less money as  reserves  for the first time in three
years to encourage lending. The move may have added 350 billion
yuan ($55 billion) to the financial system, according to UBS AG
estimates.  China ’s  money-market rate  rose the most since September on
Jan. 13, and gained a further 59 basis points today to 5.4833
percent, as banks hoarded cash to meet increased withdrawals
before the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday that starts Jan. 23.
The central bank halted sales of bills and repurchase contracts
at the end of December to ease the crunch and added funds to the
financial system for the third week, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The IMF is scheduled to release revised global projections
next week.  Olivier Blanchard , the Washington-based fund’s chief
economist, said in a Bloomberg Television interview Jan. 6 that
with European growth “very close to zero at this point,” there
would be a “substantial” cut to the fund’s most recent 2012
global expansion estimate of 4 percent.  Smallest Gain  China’s industrial production probably grew 12.3 percent in
December from a year earlier, according to a separate Bloomberg
survey of economists, the smallest gain since August 2009.
 Fixed-asset investment  excluding rural households probably
expanded 24.1 percent for the whole of 2011, little changed from
2010’s pace.  Retail sales, which include spending by government,
companies and households, advanced 17.2 percent last month from
a year earlier, a separate poll showed.  China’s growth is moderating as Europe’s debt crisis and
weak U.S. expansion hurt exports and Wen’s campaign to rein in
inflation and property prices damps output. In October, he said
the government will “fine-tune” economic policies as needed
amid a deteriorating global outlook and reiterated that pledge
as recently as Jan. 3, describing business conditions this
quarter as “relatively difficult.”  Auto Sales Trail  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, this month
predicted growth in demand for the metal in China, the world’s
biggest user, may slow to 12 percent this year from 15 percent
last year and estimated capacity in the country will be
curtailed by 1.1 million tons.  Signs that the world’s biggest consumer of steel and copper
is cooling include the smallest increase in imports and exports
in December for two years, excluding holiday distortions. Growth
in auto sales slowed last year, trailing expansion in the U.S.
for the first time in at least 14 years.  A deeper recession in Europe, which may cause a sharper
slump in demand for China’s exports, and a “disorderly
correction” in the  property market  are the biggest risks to the
economy this year, said Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist
at Barclays Capital Asia Ltd.  The world’s largest exporter may see shipment growth halve
this year from a 20 percent pace in 2011, while property
investment, which accounts for about a fifth of the nation’s
fixed-asset spending, may expand at half last year’s rate,
according to Chang.  Purchase Restrictions  China’s home prices fell for a fourth month in December
compared with the previous month after the government reiterated
plans to maintain curbs that include higher down-payment and
mortgage requirements, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd., the
country’s biggest real-estate website owner. Cities including
Beijing and Shanghai have said they will maintain home purchase
restrictions this year.  Nomura’s Zhang sees “ripple effects” from the cooling
property market, as sliding sales dent housing investment and
construction, crimp demand for raw materials such as steel and
cement, and hurt developers’ earnings.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  