-- China Growth May Lead English Soccer to Give Away TV Rights to Match NBA
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-01-15T21:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/china-growth-may-lead-english-soccer-to-give-away-tv-rights-to-match-nba.html
English soccer’s Premier League may
have to give away its television rights for free to build its
fanbase in  China .  Super Sports Media pays the league for rights, then sells
the matches -- featuring teams including Manchester United and
Liverpool -- to regional free-to-air broadcasters, which cover
areas containing about one-third of China’s 1.3 billion people.  While that’s an improvement from the 30,000 who subscribed
to see games two years ago, the league is considering how to
strengthen its position when the current deal expires after next
season. Discussions about the next cycle of overseas contracts
are to begin in the next few months.  The league’s 3 billion pounds ($4.6 billion) in overseas
and domestic broadcast rights makes it the world’s richest
soccer competition, yet China has been a struggle. Only state-
owned CCTV can broadcast sports nationwide, and it won’t
overpay, said Pierre Justo, Asia director of sport and media for
data company TNS/CSM Media Research.  CCTV’s approach is “if you want to reach the Chinese
consumer, pay us then we would broadcast you,” Justo said.
“The logic is reversed.”  Super Sports is in the second year of a three-season
agreement after taking over from Win TV, which ran a pay-per-
view service. Chinese restrictions on national sports broadcasts
give CCTV leverage in negotiations with teams and leagues.  Recognition of the league is rising with the wider
availability, Super Sports Senior Vice President Clark Xu said.  ‘Significant Growth’  “We’ve see a strong increase in ratings verses last season
because people were still recovering from the Win TV time,”
said Xu. “Lots of people didn’t realize they could watch it for
free but now they all know.”  Super Sports wouldn’t release its viewership figures for
English soccer. The games have had a “significant increase” in
viewers because matches now reach more homes, the Premier League
said. The league is considering its television options in the
country.  “China remains a very unique broadcast market that
requires a flexible and tailored approach in order to satisfy
the various objectives of our clubs and stakeholders,” the
league said in a statement to Bloomberg News. “As with a number
of our key international markets, this is a long-term strategy
and one that requires continual assessment.”  The $60 million contract with Win TV was made because team
owners preferred cash over viewers, the opposite of the strategy
pursued by the  National Basketball Association . While the
American league gets little money up front, its games reach the
entire country on CCTV.  Simple Plan  “My remit at the Premier League was beautifully simple,”
Phil Lines, who was the chief negotiator for the league before
moving to Creative Artists Agency LLC, said during an interview
in London. “Go and sell for as much as you can.”  Win TV failed because China doesn’t have a culture of  pay
television , said Xu. His company sells its rights to 18 regional
channels as well as internet sites. The games are broadcast free
of charge and Super Sports shares advertising revenues. The
channels cumulatively reach about 500 million people.  Xu, a Harvard Business School graduate, declined to say
how much the rights costs, except that they were “more
favorable” than Win TV’s deal. Lines said the amount the
Premier League gets from China “is a fraction” of what it
makes from deals with broadcasters in  Hong Kong  and  Singapore ,
where the rights are worth about $250 million.  The Premier League’s model of opting for the biggest check
can’t work in China because of the lack of competition there,
said Xu. Super Sports secured the rights after Win TV failed to
get the funding necessary for a new three-year cycle, he said.  Table Tennis  Even the most-popular sports in China have to yield to
CCTV’s dominant position. More than 100 million Chinese watched
the final of the world table tennis championships last year. The
International Table Tennis Federation’s global television sales
for the entire year were less than $3 million, according to the
ITTF’s marketing director Steve Dainton.  Justo, who’s lived in China for 12 years, said teams with
Chinese athletes attract the most viewers. NBA games featuring
Houston Rockets All-Star center  Yao Ming  doubled viewership
figured, and then dropped when he retired, Justo said.  Xu said the Premier League could enjoy the same outcome if
a Chinese soccer equivalent to Yao could be found.  Hunt for Players  “I can guarantee you will have a lot of followers here,
tremendous media coverage and also it’s very likely you’ll be
able to sign up one or more major Chinese companies as sponsors
for the club,” he said. Liverpool recently invited two young
players to train with its academy and Chelsea has sponsored a
televised talent search. Currently there isn’t a Chinese player
starring in the Premier League.  The success of tennis player  Li Na , who won the French Open
last year, is another example of star power.  “Nobody knew about tennis five or six years ago, in fact
most of the people didn’t even know what kind of game it was,”
said Justo. “Now the third-largest shown sport on TV is
tennis.”  The Premier League will start its next rights sales later
this year.  “It will be very difficult unless they clinch a deal with
the national broadcaster,” Justo said. The league could give
away the rights or accept a much lower rate to increase its
presence in China, he said.  Super Sports has yet to decide whether it will be in the
running.  “It’s going to depend on our conversation with the Premier
League and the collective decisions of the clubs,” said Xu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  on 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  