-- China Mouse-Click ‘War’ Begins as New Year Travel Overwhelms Rail Website
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-01-16T10:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/china-clicking-war-begins-as-new-year-overwhelms-rail-website.html
Kevin Zhang has enlisted four
friends in Beijing to help with possibly hours of mouse-clicking
tonight. Their task -- booking his Lunar New Year train tickets.  Zhang needed more than 50 attempts to book seats online
earlier this month, he said, as the rail ministry’s  website 
struggled to cope with 1 billion hits a day in the run-up to
next week’s Lunar New Year holiday. Round two begins today as
tickets for travel at the end of the weeklong break, China’s
busiest travel period, start going on sale.  “I am prepared for a tough war,” said Zhang, 30, a
marketing-company manager, who wants seats from the eastern city
of Hefei to Beijing. He plans to try logging on to the website
at home, while his friends make similar attempts elsewhere.  The ministry has made improvements after its website was
overwhelmed by a 10-fold jump in visitor numbers that left
millions of travelers clicking in frustration. The rail network
will handle 5.88 million trips a day through Feb. 16 as migrant
workers travel home to visit their families, according to the
ministry.  Rail tickets for the period are being sold online for the
first time this year as the government tries to curb queues at
stations and counter black-market sales. The ministry also
reduced the number of seats on sale at stations, boosted the
amount available via a sales phone line, and began printing
passenger names on tickets.  ‘It Was Terrible’  Ginny Chen got help from two co-workers and her parents to
make an online reservation for a journey to her hometown, Xuzhou,
from  Shanghai . It still took about an hour before any of them
were able to complete a transaction.  “I experienced all kinds of failures and apology messages,
it was terrible,” said Chen, 24. “When I bought the ticket, I
couldn’t believe it. I screamed in the office and felt like I
had hit the jackpot.”  Chen, who works at a textile company, is already planning
to get more help from her family when she tries to book her
return journey.  Bad weather also threatens to disrupt Lunar New Year travel,
with a cold front bringing snow and rain across much of the
country, China News Services said today, citing the Central
Meteorological Observatory. Rain and fog delayed operations on
the high-speed line between Beijing and Shanghai on Jan. 14,
according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  12-Day Rule  The surge in website traffic has been exacerbated by a rule
allowing bookings only within 12 days of the travel date. That
will be extended to two weeks for purchases made on some days
around Lunar New Year Eve, Jan. 22,  Xinhua  said today, citing an
unidentified railway ministry official.  Transactions on the website reached as many as 1.66 million
a day at the beginning of the month, compared with a designed
capability of 1 million, an unidentified railway official told
Xinhua in a Jan. 13 report.  The ministry added more bandwidth and sought advice from a
local e-commerce company, which helped improve performance, the
official told Xinhua. Systems for handling bookings and payments
will also be separated, People’s Daily said today, without
citing anyone.  The ministry didn’t reply to a fax asking for more details
on the changes to the site, which is called www.12306.cn after
the phone number used to make reservations. Taobao.com,  China ’s
biggest online shopping website, had 774 million daily hits on
average last month, according to data from Google Inc.  About 2 million rail tickets a day were sold online or by
phone from Jan. 1 to Jan. 8, Vice Railway Minister Hu Yadong,
said at a Jan. 8 press conference in Beijing.  ‘Not Perfect’  “Not everything worked perfectly and we apologize for the
inconvenience,” he said. “The new services were introduced in
response to the general public’s call for more open and fairer
ticket purchases.”  The start of online ticket sales has also allowed some
passengers to avoid the traditional need to wait for hours at
stations during the often snowy Chinese winter.  The website “is a pain, but it is still better than lining
up outside a train station overnight,” Zhang said.  Not all agree. Huang Qinghong, a driver in Wenzhou, eastern
Zhejiang province, wrote an open letter to the rail ministry
complaining that online sales gave the poor less chance of
purchasing tickets as they don’t have access to computers. Web
buyers also generally have a two-day head start as tickets only
go on sale at stations 10 days before travel dates.  Huang was given airline tickets for his Lunar New Year trip
to Chongqing city by the local newspaper that published his
letter. The Shanghai Rail Bureau, which oversees trains in
Wenzhou, also said it would improve services for low-skilled
migrant workers after the letter, Xinhua reported on Jan. 5,
citing an unidentified official.  Futile Wait  Lining up at 2 a.m. didn’t work last year for Huang Shiqing,
a designer of online games in Beijing, who was still unable to
get the tickets he wanted because of scalpers, he said. His
annual journey back to Ganzhou, Jiangxi province takes two days
of train and bus rides.  This year, he turned to the Internet, trying out different
Web browsers and payment methods before buying a ticket.
Tomorrow, he plans to be in the office as early as 6 a.m. to
take advantage of his employer’s faster Internet connection. A
friend will also try the website beginning at around the same
time and another will call the telephone hotline.  “I’m not taking any chances,” Huang said. “Getting back
home is the most important thing for me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 