-- Clinton Moves to Upgrade Myanmar Ties After Prisoners Released
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-01-15T17:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/clinton-calls-myanmar-counterpart-suu-kyi-after-prisoners-freed.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called her Myanmar counterpart after the Southeast Asian
nation released hundreds of political prisoners, as the U.S.
moved to upgrade relations strained for more than two decades.  Clinton spoke with Myanmar Foreign Minister Wunna Maung Lwin and opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi  to welcome the
release of detainees and a cease-fire with the country’s largest
armed ethnic group,  Victoria Nuland , a spokeswoman for the State
Department, said on Jan. 14. Both were conditions Clinton set
for lifting sanctions during a visit to Myanmar last month.  Clinton “told Foreign Minister Lwin that the  United States 
is prepared to meet action with action,” Nuland said in the
statement, adding they discussed exchanging ambassadors. She
also said Myanmar should “unconditionally release all remaining
political prisoners” in addition to ending violence in ethnic
areas and cutting military ties to North Korea.  The U.S.,  Europe  and Australia have reconsidered  sanctions 
against Myanmar as it reaches out to political dissidents and
lifts repressive measures imposed by the country’s former
military junta, opening up opportunities for western companies
in the country of 62 million people. China,  Hong Kong  and
 Thailand  account for more than 70 percent of total investment in
the nation formerly called Burma, compared with less than 1
percent for the U.S., according to government data.  By-Election  Prisoners pardoned by Myanmar President Thein Sein last
week included Min Ko Naing, a student leader from a 1988
uprising, and Khun Tun Oo, a Shan ethnic leader, the  Associated
Press  reported. Former Prime Minister Khin Nyunt was also freed
after more than seven years under house arrest, according to the
Democratic Voice of Burma, a news outlet run by exiles.  Suu Kyi told Clinton she supported U.S. engagement with the
government, Nuland said. The Nobel laureate will run in a by-
election on April 1 in a bid to take office for the first time
after spending more than 15 years in house arrest.  Australian Foreign Minister Kevin Rudd called the prisoner
release a “very important” step toward democratic changes. He
pledged further steps after  Australia  reduced the number of
people to whom it applies sanctions in relation to Myanmar on
Jan. 9, according to a statement.  European Union representative  Catherine Ashton  said the
prisoner release and initial cease-fire with the KNU “takes us
a further step toward a new relationship” with Myanmar.  Prisoner Numbers Disputed  EU sanctions on Myanmar include asset freezes on state-
owned companies and travel restrictions on officials. U.S.
measures ban imports, restrict money transfers, curb aid funding
and target jewelry with gemstones originating in Myanmar.  The number of jailed dissidents in Myanmar is disputed. Suu
Kyi had called for the government to free 525 political
prisoners on Nov. 16. The Thailand-based Assistance Association
for Political Prisoners ( Burma ) said that 272 of the 651
prisoners released two days ago were political detainees and
more than 1,000 remained locked up.  “The number of political prisoners released is limited,”
the group said in a statement. “The demands of the opposition,
the Burmese people and the international community were not
met.”  New York-based Human Rights Watch called for international
monitors to account for all political prisoners. The release
came immediately after an agreement signed Jan. 12 with the
 Karen National Union  in a bid to end more than 60 years of
fighting in one of the world’s oldest conflicts.  Chevron, Standard Chartered  The KNU will discuss “how the terms and conditions of the
proposal will be materialized on the ground, in detail, before
both sides can agree on the final cease-fire agreement,” the
group said in a Jan. 14 statement.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , based in San Ramon,  California , is one of
the few U.S. companies operating in Myanmar through its 2005
purchase of Unocal Corp., which invested in a gas field and
pipeline prior to a 1997 ban on new investment. Standard
Chartered Plc, the U.K. bank that earns more than two-thirds of
its profit in  Asia , said this month it’s seeking to return to
Myanmar once the U.S. and Europe lift sanctions.  China National Petroleum Corp. is building oil and gas
pipelines across Myanmar, a move that would allow it to access
Middle Eastern crude without having to go through the Malacca
Straits. China and  India , which account for more than a third of
the world population, share more than 3,600 kilometers (2,237
miles) of border with Myanmar, whose citizens earn an average of
$2.20 per day.  Myanmar’s army is still fighting with ethnic groups,
including the Kachin Independence Army. That conflict has
displaced 50,000 ethnic Kachin since last June, Human Rights
Watch said on Dec. 21. Kachin, bordering  China  and India, is the
northernmost of Myanmar’s 14 provinces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  