-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Probably Little Changed on Store Holiday Discounts
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-01-15T05:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/consumer-prices-in-u-s-probably-little-changed-on-store-holiday-discounts.html
The cost of living in the U.S. was
probably little changed in December as stores discounted
merchandise during the holidays, supporting the  Federal
Reserve ’s view that inflation will remain in check, economists
said a report will show this week.  Consumer prices rose 0.1 percent after holding steady in
November, according to the median forecast of 65 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before Labor Department data Jan. 19.
Another report may show output at factories, mines and utilities
rebounded after falling for the first time in seven months.  Retailers from  Williams-Sonoma Inc. (WSM)  to  Macy’s Inc. (M)  cut
prices to attract customers constrained by stagnant incomes and
falling property values. The lack of pricing power means Fed
officials have more leeway to take additional steps to spur
growth should the economic expansion stumble.  “The inflation outlook provides the Fed with some wiggle
room,” said  John Herrmann , senior fixed-income strategist at
State Street Global Markets LLC in  Boston . “While growth
remains uneven, manufacturing activity has been resilient.”  Factories are bolstering the recovery that began in June
2009, while housing, which helped trigger the recession, is
stabilizing, other figures may indicate this week.  The Labor Department’s inflation report may also show
consumer prices  excluding  food and fuel rose 0.1 percent last
month after climbing 0.2 percent in November, according to the
Bloomberg survey  median .  12-Month Increase  Compared with December 2010, the so-called core index was
probably up 2.2 percent, the same as in the prior 12 months,
economists projected.  Fed policy makers’ preferred price gauge, which is issued
by the Commerce Department and is tied to  consumer spending ,
rose 1.7 percent in the year ended in November. That is at the
lower end of officials’ long-run forecast of 1.7 percent to 2
percent.  Inflation and pressures to raise prices “were very
limited” at the end of last year, the Fed said in its Beige
Book anecdotal business survey released on Jan. 11. Several
district banks reported that “upward price pressures from
rising commodity and input prices have eased substantially,” it
said. Policy makers will use the report as a basis for framing
their discussions at their next meeting on Jan. 24-25.  Discounting Merchandise  Retailers were among companies paring prices last month.
Chains including Macy’s, Gap Inc. and Target Corp. offered
discounts on already marked-down merchandise in the week after
Christmas. Williams-Sonoma, the owner of the namesake, Pottery
Barn and West Elm home-goods chains, last week said profit may
be less than previously forecast due to holiday price-cutting.  Williams-Sonoma faced “greater challenges” given the
heavy market discounting on nationally branded products, Chief
Executive Officer Laura Alber said in a Jan. 12 statement.  Slowing global demand also means raw-material costs may
cool. The producer price  index  rose 0.1 percent last month after
a 0.3 percent gain in November, economists forecast ahead of a
Jan. 18 Labor Department report.  Alongside cooling inflation, the economy is also benefiting
from growth in manufacturing driven by inventory replenishment.
The Fed’s data on December industrial production may show output
rose 0.5 percent after falling 0.2 percent the prior month. The
figures are due Jan. 18.  Regional reports from the New York Fed on Jan. 17 and the
Philadelphia Fed on Jan. 19 may show manufacturing continued to
pick up in January, according to economists surveyed.  Machinery Makers  The gains help explain the surge in shares of equipment
makers so far this year. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
 Machinery Index (S15MACH)  has climbed 9 percent since the end of December,
outpacing a 2.5 percent gain for the broader  S&P 500 .  Homebuilding is still lagging while sales may be starting
to stabilize. Builders  broke ground  on fewer homes in December,
and permits, a sign of future construction, were probably little
changed, according to the Bloomberg survey median ahead of
Commerce Department data on Jan. 19.  The next day, the National Association of Realtors may
report sales of previously owned houses rose to a 19-month high
in December, economists predicted.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues suggested
in a recent paper that lawmakers try new programs to revive the
housing market.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  