-- Tebow Stopped by Brady and Patriots; 49ers Reach Title Game
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-01-15T07:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/tebow-stopped-by-brady-and-patriots-49ers-reach-title-game.html
Tom Brady  and the  New England
Patriots  put an end to “Tebow Time” in the National Football
League playoffs.  Brady threw a record-tying six touchdown passes as the
Patriots beat Tebow and the Denver Broncos 45-10 to advance to
the American Football Conference title game against the winner
of today’s contest between the  Baltimore Ravens  and  Houston
Texans .  Vernon Davis caught a 14-yard pass from  Alex Smith  with 14
seconds remaining to give the San Francisco 49ers a 36-32 win
over the  New Orleans Saints  and a spot in the National Football
Conference championship game against the winner of today’s
matchup between the  New York Giants  and  Green Bay Packers .  The conference title-winners on Jan. 22 will play for the
NFL championship in the  Super Bowl  in Indianapolis on Feb. 5.  New England’s win in Foxborough,  Massachusetts , last night
ended the run of the Broncos and Tebow, who had led Denver to
five fourth-quarter comeback victories in the regular season and
an overtime triumph over the Pittsburgh Steelers in the first
round of the playoffs a week ago.  The fourth-quarter rallies had been labeled “Tebow Time”
by ESPN, and the second-year quarterback from the University of
Florida became known for his on-field performance and his post-
victory ritual of kneeling in prayer. That pose took on its own
name -- “Tebowing” -- and the attention helped lead to
television ratings for the Denver-Pittsburgh game that broke
records for a first-round playoff contest.  Last night in Gillette Stadium, the opposing quarterback
had the upper hand.  Touchdown Record  Brady matched the NFL record for touchdown passes in a
playoff game set by Oakland Raiders quarterback Daryle Lamonica
in 1969 and tied by the 49ers’  Steve Young  in 1995.  “It sounds rhetorical, but it’s a one-game season,” Brady
said in a televised interview after last night’s game.  Brady threw five touchdown passes in the first half, an NFL
playoff record, as the Patriots took a 35-7 lead.  Rob Gronkowski 
caught three of his scoring throws, matching the league record
for touchdown receptions in a postseason game.  “We knew we had to execute, we knew we had to play four
quarters,” Gronkowski, who finished with 10 catches for 145
yards, said in a televised interview.  Brady completed 26 of 34 attempts for 363 yards, with one
interception. The Patriots had 509 total yards compared with
Denver’s 252 yards.  Tebow completed nine of 26 passes for 136 yards. The
Broncos’ scores came on a five-yard run by Willis McGahee in the
second quarter and a 41-yard field goal by Matt Prater.  ‘Work to Do’  “Kind of like our football team, I was really proud where
he started and where he brought this team,” Denver coach John Fox said of Tebow in a news conference. “We are a work in
progress. We have got a lot of work to do.”  Tebow said the early deficit was a difficult hurdle.  “Even at halftime when we came in and said we were going
to play one play at a time, you never know what’s going to
happen,” he said at a news conference. “We just weren’t able
to get it done.”  Davis caught a 49-yard pass from Smith with just over two
minutes left in the first quarter in  San Francisco  to give the
49ers a 7-0 lead over the Saints. He finished with seven catches
for 180 yards and two touchdowns.  “I had to take it upon myself to step up and make plays,”
Davis said in televised interview. “We practiced the play all
week. It was rehearsed.”  The 49ers had a 17-0 lead 43 seconds into the second
quarter on Davis’s touchdown, Smith’s four-yard pass to Michael Crabtree and  David Akers ’s 25-yard field goal.  Saints Scores  Saints quarterback Drew Brees connected with Jimmy Graham
on a 14-yard pass and Marques Colston on a 25-yard throw in the
second quarter to narrow the gap to a 17-14 at halftime.  Akers kicked a 41-yard field goal to give the 49ers a 20-14
advantage in the third quarter.  The Saints took their first lead with 4 minutes, 11 seconds
left in the game on Brees’s 44-yard pass to Darren Sproles for a
24-23 advantage. Two minutes later, Smith ran 28 yards for a
29-24 lead for the 49ers, who failed on a two-point conversion.  Brees put the Saints back on top with a 66-yard scoring
pass to Graham. New Orleans’ two-point conversion was successful
for a 32-29 lead with 1:48 remaining.  Final Score  Smith passed for his third touchdown to Davis for the
victory.  “On that last drive, three points down, we knew a field
goal would take us into overtime,” Smith, who passed for a
total of 299 yards, said in a televised interview. “We got a
play with a shot at the end zone. Vernon got a great catch in
traffic.”  Brees entered the game as the all-time record holder for
consecutive postseason passes (215) without an interception, a
streak that was broken by two interceptions. Brees completed 40
of 63 passing attempts for 458 yards and four touchdowns for the
Saints who had five turnovers.  “These were two great teams that know how to win, how to
finish and are used to winning,” Brees said at a news
conference. “Unfortunately, there can be only one winner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  