-- Telenor CEO Baksaas Fights Facebook for ‘Wallet Share’ With Digital Push
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-01-16T17:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/telenor-chief-fights-facebook-for-wallet-share-with-digital-expansion.html
Telenor ASA (TEL)  has become one of the
last major European phone operators to respond to the threat of
a loss of revenue to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Facebook Inc. with its own
push in digital services.  “The communications industry can think in terms of
maintaining a share of the consumer’s wallet and we shouldn’t
shy away from this ambition,” Chief Executive Officer Jon Fredrik Baksaas said in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in Fornebu,  Norway .  The Nordic region’s largest phone company, with 133 million
wireless customers worldwide, plans to add workers to the
digital division it founded in September to assemble services
like movies and banking for customers from Oslo to  Kuala Lumpur .
Partners so far include  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  and Telenor
plans to expand the 450-person venture through acquisitions as
well as own growth.  Telenor is lining up with peers including  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and
Vodafone Plc to sell telephony as a service portal rather than
just a “dumb pipe” transport layer. The operators are losing
voice and text revenues as users go “over the top” of operator
billing systems to chat with each other through  Internet access 
they’ve already paid for. The wireless companies don’t want to
lose more.  Web Platforms  “It’s a question of if Facebook and others will be
confident enough from their perspective to say we don’t need the
telcos, or could they reach a more rapid buildup on the other
kind of business model that we entertain,” Baksaas, 57, said in
the Jan. 13 interview. “Everyone is talking to everyone to find
different forms of how to cooperate.”  As competition with Apple, Google and Facebook intensifies,
operators and handset makers are struggling to establish
themselves as Internet platforms and to find ways to charge
users separately for products like music and video. The Vodafone
360 project, intended to give customers a one-stop services and
authentication platform, faces an uncertain future after its
head quit last year.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest mobile-phone
maker, has fought to reproduce Apple’s model with its Ovi
services and has now teamed up with Microsoft Corp.  Telenor rose 0.9 percent to 97.40 kroner at the close of
trading in Oslo. The shares have climbed about 5 percent over
the last year, valuing the company at 157 billion kroner ($26
billion), compared with a 9 percent fall for the  STOXX 600
Telecommunications Index . The company, which is also the largest
broadcaster in the Nordic region, is 54 percent owned by the
Norwegian state.  Google Deal  The company’s digital services unit, headed by Nordic and
broadcast businesses chief Kristin Skogen Lund, announced a deal
with Google in November to let its customers in 11 countries pay
for Android apps on their phone bills, and will also have its
own shelf in Android market. More deals will follow, Baksaas
said.  The unit, which includes a team looking at acquisitions,
incorporates some existing service units like  Comoyo , which aims
to sell movies and other services through a single login. For
music, Telenor offers the WiMP service, a competitor to Spotify
Inc., developed by  Aspiro AB. (ASP)   Some of the new services will be “anti-churn” measures to
retain customers or give them more value for money, while others
generate revenue like WiMP, Baksaas said. The digital services
arm may publish targets in the next year and will channel
content from partners rather than creating it, he said.  Network Pressure  Besides “over the top” consumer services, Telenor is
working on financial, business and machine-to-machine services
in cooperation with Ericsson, Rolv Erik Spilling, Lund’s deputy
chief for digital and Nordics, said in an interview. Telenor is
already the largest bank in  Pakistan  by number of users with its
Easypaisa service, he said.  Norwegian text messaging volumes peaked in 2009 and
customers increasingly use social networking and platform-
specific systems like iPhone and BlackBerry messaging to
communicate, Baksaas said. Systems like Skype and Apple’s
Facetime shift voice and video calling into the data bundle as
well, adding to the pressure to recoup money for networks and
profits from users on all-you-can-eat data plans.  Pricing models in  Europe  are in flux as data use swells and
operators install faster fourth-generation systems, which treat
all traffic as data. Operators are starting to charge more for
better quality services and differentiate between peak and off-
peak hours, Baksaas said. Time-based usage is also growing,
borrowing a model from  emerging markets , where people top up day
by day.  The average revenue per user is an increasingly poor
indicator of monthly customer spending since it typically refers
to income from each subscription tracked by a SIM card, Baksaas
said.  “Five years ago you had one SIM card per subscriber,” he
said. “My usage has grown but now it comes from three or four
SIM cards for phones, iPad, camera.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  