-- Euro Falls After S&P Strips France of AAA, Reduces Eight Others’ Ratings
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-01-16T08:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/euro-falls-after-s-p-strips-france-of-aaa-reduces-eight-others-ratings.html
The euro weakened for a second day,
touching an 11-year low versus the yen after  Standard & Poor’s 
stripped France of its top  credit rating  and cut eight other
euro-zone nations.  The shared currency extended a six-week-long drop against
the greenback before a series of debt auctions this week by
European nations begins with France’s bill sale today. The yen
and dollar strengthened against most of their major peers as
concern that Europe’s financial turmoil will intensify boosted
demand for safety. Australia’s dollar slid before data on
economic growth in China, the nation’s biggest trading partner.  “The ratings downgrade provides more evidence that the
euro-zone sovereign-debt crisis has a lot further to run,” said
 Lee Hardman  , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in London. ‘The fundamentals still argue in favor of a
continued adjustment lower in the euro.’’  The euro fell 0.2 percent to $1.2658 at 7:52 a.m. in  London 
from the close in  New York  on Jan. 13 when it touched $1.2624,
the least since Aug. 25, 2010. The shared currency depreciated
0.4 percent to 97.23 yen after dropping to 97.04, the lowest
since December 2000. The dollar dipped 0.2 percent to 76.81 yen.  U.S. markets are closed for a holiday today.  France will auction as much as 8.7 billion euros ($11
billion) in bills today, followed by the European Financial
Stability Facility’s 1.5 billion-euro sale of bills and Greece’s
offering of bills tomorrow. Spain will also offer debt tomorrow
and Jan. 19, while  Portugal  will sell bills on Jan. 18.  ‘Nervous’ Market  “Markets are going to remain pretty nervous” until we see
the results of European debt auctions this week, said  Michael Turner , a fixed-income strategist in Sydney at Royal Bank of
Canada. “The yen and the dollar should outperform.”  The euro dropped on Jan. 13 before S&P lowered the top
ratings of  France  and Austria one level to AA+, with
“negative” outlooks, while affirming the ratings of countries
including Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands. The company also
downgraded Italy, Portugal, Spain and Cyprus by two steps and
cut Malta, Slovakia and Slovenia by one level.  The EFSF, the euro-region’s bailout fund needed to tap
markets to finance aid for Greece, Ireland and Portugal, may
lose its top rating if any of the bailout fund’s guarantors face
a downgrade, S&P said last month.  Italy’s government must refinance about 341 billion euros
of securities coming due this year, with another 54 billion
euros in interest payments, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
France has 266 billion euros in debt coming due, plus 39 billion
euros in interest, while Germany needs to find 193 billion euros
for principal repayments and 22 billion euros for interest.  ‘Disorderly Default’  Talks between  Greece ’s Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ,
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos and  Charles Dallara , the
managing director of the Institute of International Finance,
which represents private creditors, will resume Jan. 18,
according to a Greek Finance Ministry official who declined to
be identified. Greece’s creditor banks last week broke off talks
after failing to agree with the government about how much money
investors will lose by swapping their bonds.  “We remain concerned that Greece may suffer a disorderly
default in March,” Mansoor Mohi-uddin, chief foreign-exchange
strategist at UBS AG in Singapore, wrote in a Jan. 14 note. “A
Greek default would have a major impact on the euro as it would
spread contagion to other bond markets in the  euro zone .”  Euro Shorts  Futures traders  increased bets to a record that the euro
will weaken against the dollar. The difference between wagers
that the shared currency would fall versus those that it would
rise surged to 155,195 in the week ended Jan. 10, data from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed on Jan. 13.  “Those downgrades provided another excuse for the
speculative community to add to their short positions in euro,”
said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand
Ltd. in Wellington. “We’ve got a few more European debt
auctions out there as  market sentiment  continues to be tested.”
A short position is a bet that an asset will decline in value.  The euro has depreciated 1.8 percent this month, the worst
performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar advanced 0.9
percent over the same period, while the yen gained 1 percent.  Yen’s Range  The yen will trade in a range from 72 to 79 per dollar for
the next six months, former Japanese Finance Ministry official
Eisuke Sakakibara said. Intervention in the  currency market  will
only work with U.S. cooperation, he said today at the Foreign
Correspondents’ Club of  Japan  in Tokyo. Japan’s government
intervened in the foreign-exchange market at least three times
last year to keep the yen’s gains from hobbling the country’s
recovery.  The Australian dollar weakened against its U.S. and
Japanese counterparts before data tomorrow that economists say
will show  China ’s growth slowed in the fourth quarter.  Chinese gross domestic product rose 8.7 percent from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since the second quarter of 2009,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  The so-called Aussie slipped 0.3 percent to $1.0289, while
the  New Zealand dollar  lost 0.2 percent to 79.32 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 