-- Euro Decoupling as Draghi Rate Cuts Fail to Boost Confidence
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-01-16T11:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/euro-decoupling-as-draghi-rate-cuts-fail-to-restore-correlation-confidence.html
The euro is losing the relationship
with riskier assets that underpinned the currency in 2011 as the
deepening sovereign debt crisis reduces the creditworthiness of
even the biggest economies in the region.  The 17-nation currency has fallen 8.6 percent against the
dollar since October, while the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index has
gained 2.4 percent, and the correlation between the two dropped
to 58 percent from a record 91 percent in November, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The euro had moved almost in
lockstep with investments linked to growth, including stocks and
the Australian dollar, since January 2011.  This decoupling is taking place as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  cuts  interest rates  and promises banks
unlimited cash for three years to rein in soaring borrowing
costs for governments ranging from Italy to Spain to France,
which lost its AAA credit rating last week. The infusion drove
the euro to a 20-month low of $1.2624 last week. UBS AG, which
in mid-August advised selling the currency when it was at about
$1.45, says fair value ranges from $1.15 to $1.20.  “In the latter part of last year you had the euro, the
Aussie and the S&P 500 all trading in the same way, very highly
correlated,” Andrew Cox, a currency strategist at Citigroup
Inc. in New York, said in a Jan. 9 telephone interview.
“Fundamentals once again matter.”  Worst Performer  Strategists also anticipate more losses as the  U.S. economy 
improves while the euro zone shrinks, driving international
investors away from the region’s assets. At the same time,
European officials led by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  are
taking steps to contain the crisis and sovereign borrowing costs
eased last week.  The euro is the worst performer this year among the 10
currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, falling 1.7 percent. Major peers that have appreciated
the most against the dollar are Brazil’s real, Mexico’s peso and
New Zealand’s dollar, currencies with a traditionally high
correlation to U.S. equities and the favorites of speculators
seeking riskier bets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard & Poor’s cut the ratings of  France  and eight other
euro-zone nations on Jan. 13. The euro was 0.1 percent weaker at
$1.2669 as of 10:58 a.m. in  London , extending a drop from last
week. It declined 0.3 percent to 97.27 yen after touching 97.04,
the least since December 2000.  ‘Short the Currency’  “Investors should be short the currency now and we’re
concerned that Friday’s mass downgrades of euro-zone countries
by S&P is not fully priced yet,” Mansoor Mohi-uddin, the
Singapore-based chief foreign-exchange strategist at UBS, said
in a Jan. 14 report.  The euro also reached a record low of 81.55 cents against
the Australian dollar today. Currency forecasters reduced their
fourth-quarter estimates by the most last month since January
2010, predicting it will end the year at $1.30, from previous
estimates of $1.38, Bloomberg data show. Cox said he expects it
to drop to $1.20.  “The escalating euro zone sovereign debt crisis is both
raising concerns over the long-run growth outlook for the euro
zone, sustainability of the currency bloc, and solvency of some
members,”  Lee Hardman  , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London, said in a Jan. 11 e-mail.  Even with the declines, the euro remains above its average
of $1.2054 since its inception in 1999 and signals that  Europe ’s
leaders may stem the crisis that has led to bailouts of  Greece ,
 Portugal  and Ireland.  EU Summit  The results of a Dec. 9 summit, at which 26 of the 27
European Union members agreed to sign up to or consider tighter
deficit limits and sanctions against offenders, would have been
“unthinkable” a few months ago and “can’t be overstated,”
Merkel said in a Dec. 14 speech in Berlin.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  of stocks is up 1.9 percent this
year. Yields on Italian 10-year bonds fell to 6.64 percent last
week from 2011’s high of 7.48 percent on Nov. 11. French notes
of similar maturity are 3.08 percent, down from 3.82 percent.  That may change this week after S&P stripped France and
Austria of their AAA ratings, cut those of  Italy  and Spain,
while leaving  Germany ’s untouched. Before S&P made its move,
Greece’s creditors said they had failed to agree how much money
investors will lose by swapping the nation’s bonds, increasing
the risk of the euro area’s first sovereign default.  Crisis Shift  “The problems in the euro zone have shifted from the
periphery and are moving more into the core of Europe,”  Ian Stannard , the head of European foreign-exchange strategy at
Morgan Stanley in London, said in a Jan. 10 telephone interview.  A growing divergence between Europe and the rest of the
world is driving away investors as ECB interest-rate cuts remove
one of the euro’s pillars of support.  The currency appreciated as much as 6.6 percent between
January and May 2011 as  Jean-Claude Trichet , who stepped down as
head of the ECB in October, raised the central bank’s main rate
twice, to 1.5 percent from 1 percent.  Draghi has undone those increases, and foreign holders sold
the greatest amount of euro zone assets in October since
February 2000, according to ECB data released last month. He has
signaled more cuts may come, saying at a Jan. 12 press
conference in  Frankfurt  that there are “substantial downside
risks” to the economy and policy makers stand “ready to act.”  The ECB’s decision to offer banks unlimited three-year
loans and the central bank’s purchase of sovereign bonds helped
balloon the central bank’s  balance sheet  to a record 2.73
trillion euros ($3.5 trillion) in December. The  Federal
Reserve’s balance sheet  has averaged $2.86 trillion since the
end of the central bank’s latest asset purchase program in June.  Sovereign Bonds  “It’s a different ECB than we’ve ever had before,”
 Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in London, said in a Jan. 11 telephone interview.
“That means that the euro is not going to perform very well.”  By  making loans to banks and purchasing  sovereign bonds the
ECB is flooding the market with euros, similar to the monetary
policy called quantitative easing that the Fed conducted when it
flooded the financial system with dollars through asset
purchases.  A measure of the relationship between the value of the
European currency and the Australian dollar against the
greenback has dropped to 76 percent, after climbing to as high
as 94 percent in November, according to the pair’s 20-day
percent change correlation. The euro’s ties to the  S&P 500  have
fallen to the lowest since June.  Recession Risk  Germany may be on the brink of recession after its  economy 
shrank “roughly” 0.25 percent in the fourth quarter from the
third, the Federal Statistics Office said Jan. 11 in an
unofficial estimate. A recession is defined as two consecutive
quarters of declining gross domestic product.  Economists estimate the euro zone economy will contract 0.2
percent this year, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. A separate survey shows the U.S.’s gross
domestic product may expand 2.3 percent in 2012.  “In a world in which the ECB loosens policy and the better
data in the U.S. is implying a lower probability for
quantitative easing, we would expect euro-dollar to continue
under pressure.” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist
at Barclays Capital Inc. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  