-- Fortescue Resumes Mining After Floods Trigger Halt
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2012-01-16T01:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/fortescue-resumes-mining-after-halt-caused-by-pilbara-floods-1-.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  resumed
operations at its Pilbara mines after flooding caused by
Tropical Cyclone Heidi prompted  Australia ’s third-biggest iron
ore producer to suspend work on Jan. 13.  “We’ve resumed mining at Cloudbreak and Christmas Creek”
on Jan. 14, Elizabeth Gosch, a company spokeswoman, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. She declined to specify any
impact on production.  Work was halted at Cloudbreak, which produces 40 million
metric tons a year of the steelmaking material, and Christmas
Creek, with output of 15 million tons a year, after Heidi
crossed the coast east of  Port Hedland  as a tropical low on Jan.
12. The port, 1,300 kilometers (830 miles) north of Perth in
 Western Australia , is the world’s biggest iron ore terminal, and
was subject to heavy rain and strong winds.  The  Bureau of Meteorology issued warnings  at 10:15 a.m.
local time yesterday for flooding in the Yule and Turner river
catchments, as well as the Fortescue River catchment.  Handle Shipments  Fortescue fell 2.1 percent to A$4.65 at 11:22 a.m. in
Sydney trading, compared with a 1 percent decline in the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Port Hedland harbor, used by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
Fortescue, reopened Jan. 12, as did the Dampier and Cape Lambert
ports, which handle shipments by  Rio Tinto Group. (RIO)   There’s been no halt to production at Rio, which has 14
mines in the region, the London-based company said Jan. 13 in an
e-mailed statement. Rail services are running normally, it said.  BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, said last week it
was monitoring the storm and would stop operations if necessary.
It will publish any potential impact on its mines in the next
production report, Fiona Martin, a spokeswoman for the
Melbourne-based company, said by phone yesterday. The company
has at least seven iron ore mines in the Pilbara.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  