-- Carnival Grounding May Cost Generali, RSA, XL, Insurers Up to $800 Million
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2012-01-16T16:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/generali-rsa-xl-said-to-insure-concordia-for-405-million-euros.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL) ’s capsized cruise
ship, the Costa Concordia, may cost insurers as much as $800
million once employers’ liability claims are paid and the vessel
is removed, according to analysts at Numis Securities Ltd.  The total insurance loss is likely to be between $600
million and $800 million, Nick Johnson, a London-based insurance
analyst at Numis, wrote in a note today. The cruise ship’s hull
insurance will pay out about 405 million euros ($512 million), a
person with knowledge of the policy said yesterday.  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA)  and  XL
Group Plc (XL)  are among insurers facing payouts for the ship, three
people with knowledge of the policies said yesterday.  Hannover
Re , the world’s fourth-largest reinsurer, said it will take a
“major loss” exceeding 10 million euros from the accident. The
grounding killed at least six passengers when the ship, carrying
4,200 people, hit a reef off the west coast of  Italy  on Jan. 13.  “Carnival’s size means that it is likely to be one of the
most widely underwritten accounts in the marine insurance
market,” Johnson wrote. “Most of the London stocks are likely
to have some exposure.”  The cost of the disaster to insurers is likely to exceed
the $500 million paid out following the Exxon Valdez disaster
off the coast of  Alaska  in 1989, making the Costa Concordia the
largest marine loss on record, Joy Ferneyhough, a London-based
analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank, wrote in a note to
clients today.  Liability Cover  Carnival has liability cover of as much as $3 billion with
the  Standard Club , a mutual insurance association owned by ship
owners, and the  Steamship Mutual Underwriting Association Ltd. ,
according to spokesmen for the two firms. It’s too early to say
what, if any, claim will be, Standard Club spokesman Mark Baylis
said. The higher limits of the policy are reinsured, he said.  “Quite often with these accidents, the real insurance loss
comes if people are injured or killed,” said  Eamonn Flanagan ,
an insurance analyst at  Shore Capital Group Ltd. (SGR)  in Liverpool,
 England .  The vessel cost 450 million euros to build when
commissioned in 2004, according to a  press release  at the time.  Aon Corp. (AON)  was Carnival’s insurance broker,  Il Sole 24 Ore 
reported yesterday, without saying where it got the information.
Aon spokeswoman Katherine Conway declined to comment on the
report yesterday.  Loss ‘Widely Spread’  Carnival  shares  plunged today, sliding 17 percent to 1869
pence as of 4 p.m. in London. RSA dropped 0.1 percent to 109.9
pence in London, while Generali dropped 0.6 percent to 11.98
euros in Milan. XL is listed on the New York Stock Exchange,
which is closed for a holiday today.  “Covering these kinds of risks is part of Generali’s
business,” the Italian insurer said in a statement e-mailed to
Bloomberg News. “A prudent reassurance policy will limit the
net impact of this specific claim to a very marginal level.”  RSA’s loss from the incident will be in the mid single-
digit millions of euros, said a person with knowledge of the
matter. XL is the lead underwriter for the ship at Lloyd’s of
 London , the market that shares claims and premiums between
insurers, another person with knowledge of the policy said.  Officials at XL and London-based RSA declined to comment.  Carnival said today that it’s self-insured for the loss of
the use of the vessel, which is insured for damage with a
deductible of approximately $30 million. Its third-party
personal injury liability insurance carries a deductible of
approximately $10 million for this incident. The grounding will
cost the company as much as $95 million, or between 11 cents and
12 cents a share in fiscal 2012, it said.  “We are deeply saddened by this tragic event and our
hearts go out to everyone affected by the grounding of the Costa
Concordia and especially to the families and loved ones of those
who lost their lives,” Carnival Chief Executive Officer Micky Arison said in the statement.  Pier Luigi Foschi, chairman of Carnival’s Italian
subsidiary Costa Crociere, said the company is “very well
covered” at a press conference in Genoa today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  