-- Greek Debt Swap Negotiations Face ‘Critical’ Phase This Week
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-01-16T09:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/greek-debt-swap-faces-critical-phase-as-talks-resume-this-week.html
The Greek government and its
creditors return to the negotiating table this week to revive
stalled talks on a debt swap as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
places pressure on both sides to forge a deal.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said two days
ago that talks with the  Institute of International Finance  will
resume on Jan. 18. The Washington-based IIF, which represents
banks holding the bonds, said on Jan. 14 there is a “tentative
plan” to return to Athens mid-week, “but this depends on
developments over the next few days.”  European officials and the nation’s creditors agreed in
October to implement a 50 percent cut in the face value of Greek
debt by voluntarily exchanging outstanding bonds for new
securities, with a goal of reducing Greece’s borrowings to 120
percent of gross domestic product by 2020. The two sides, which
broke off negotiations on Jan. 13, have struggled to reach an
accord on the coupon and maturity of the new bonds to determine
losses for investors, raising the danger of a sovereign default.  “With every day that passes, the situation becomes more
critical,” said  Christian Muschick , a Frankfurt-based analyst
at Silvia Quandt Research. “Financial markets want to see a
solution once and for all. Politicians should put pressure on
both sides.”  Return to  Athens   Greece is seeking to reach the framework for a deal this
week, when talks on terms for a second financing agreement with
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  officials start
in Athens. Venizelos said Jan. 14 his country aims to present
the outline of the plan at a meeting of euro-area finance
ministers on Jan. 23.  The government in Athens intends to announce the details of
the private-sector involvement, or PSI, between Feb. 6 and Feb.
10, according to an e-mailed transcript of a speech sent by the
ministry. A deal on the swap must be struck well before March
20, when Greece has to make a 14.5 billion-euro ($18.4 billion)
bond payment.  The IIF’s  Charles Dallara  and  Jean Lemierre , co-heads of a
steering committee representing financial firms, may return to
Athens in the middle of the week if there is a “constructive
and consistent response by all official parties,” the group
said over the weekend. The signal that talks would resume came a
day after the IIF announced that negotiations had “paused for
reflection on the benefits of a voluntary approach.”  Coupon Discord  Merkel urged the Greek government on Jan. 15 to make good
on debt-cutting commitments and financial firms to uphold their
pledges of a debt writedown made in October. There is “the
expectation that  Greece  implements the measures it has
accepted,” Merkel said yesterday in an interview with German
radio station  Deutschlandfunk . She also urged the IIF to “keep
to its commitments.”  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  traveled to
Athens yesterday to meet with Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos , Foreign Affairs Minister Stavros Dimas and Antonis Samaras, head of the main opposition New Democracy Party.  “We believe the talks will end in success, because that’s
what logic and interests demand,” Dimas told reporters after
meeting with Westerwelle.  The IMF had previously sought a lower coupon than the range
offered by investors to ensure Greece meets the deficit targets
amid a worsening economic outlook. Failure to complete the
voluntary swap threatens to further undermine confidence in the
EU’s crisis leadership.  Resistance to Deal  European governments have been pushing for the Greek debt
to carry a coupon of 4 percent, said a person with direct
knowledge of the negotiations on Jan. 13. Private bondholders
said they would accept those terms for a period of time if they
were able to get a bigger payout later as Greece’s economy
recovered, said the person, who declined to be identified. The
IMF probably sought a coupon close to 2 percent for the Greek
debt swap, Le Figaro reported on Jan. 14.  The steering committee includes representatives from banks
and insurers with the largest holdings of Greek  government
bonds , including  National Bank of Greece SA ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,
 Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  ING Groep
NV (INGA) ,  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Axa SA. (CS)  Lemierre is a senior adviser to the
chairman at Paris-based BNP and Deutsche Bank Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  is chairman of the IIF.  Hedge Funds  Financial firms on the IIF’s private-creditor investor
committee, a larger group of 32  members  that includes the
smaller steering committee, hold more than 47 billion euros in
Greek sovereign debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
from company reports.  Hedge funds holding Greek bonds may resist the deal,
seeking to reap greater profit by getting paid in full, either
by the Greek government or by triggering payouts from bond
insurance contracts known as credit-default swaps. Winning
support from banks seeking to limit their losses will be easier
than including  hedge funds  and other speculators who bought
securities at distressed levels. For example, investors who
purchased Greek bonds at 35 cents or 40 cents on the euro will
want an agreement that allows them to profit from the swap.  For that reason, the final deal may have to incorporate a
net-present-value loss of less than 60 percent to gain the
participation needed to avert default and a series of lengthy
legal battles, people familiar with the talks have said.  Greece Unique  “If the NPV loss approaches levels as high as 75 percent,
then some of the bondholders will have to rethink whether this
deal makes business sense,” said Muschick of Silvia Quandt
Research. “There’s also concern that if Greece gets too sweet a
deal, it could encourage other euro-zone countries to seek debt
relief.”  Vega Asset Management LLC resigned from the committee of
Greek creditors negotiating the debt swap last month because the
Madrid-based hedge fund refused to accept a net present value
loss exceeding 50 percent, according to a Dec. 7 e-mail sent to
other panel members, which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  EU officials have emphasized that Greece’s circumstances
are unique and don’t presage bondholder losses in other nations
that seek assistance. The swap proposed to investors is intended
to slice 100 billion euros from the 205 billion euros of
privately owned Greek debt, though the final amount depends on
participation levels. The new bonds will be backed by 30 billion
euros of incentives, in the form of high-quality collateral
issued by the euro area’s rescue fund.  ‘Sticking Point’  “The sticking point is actually coming down to what the
 interest rate  would be on the new bond,” Hans Humes, president
of Greylock Capital Management LLC and a member of committee
negotiating the deal with the government, said on Jan. 13 in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.” If the talks fail and Greece defaults, “there will
be a lot of contagion,” he said.  Greece hasn’t yet decided whether to submit legislation
that could force holders of the nation’s debt to take part in a
bond swap, according to a government spokesman who said his
earlier remarks on the matter were misinterpreted.  A report in Ta Nea newspaper on Jan. 13 said Venizelos may
submit legislation on so-called collective action clauses by
Jan. 16. “There is no decision on if and when,” Pantelis Kapsis said by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  