-- Iran Warns Arab Oil Suppliers Against Backing an EU Embargo, Shargh Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-01-15T12:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/iran-warns-arab-oil-suppliers-against-backing-an-eu-embargo-shargh-says.html
Iran ’s OPEC Governor Mohammad-Ali
Khatibi called on Arab oil suppliers to refrain from supporting
a possible European embargo on Iranian crude sales, calling such
help “a dangerous political game,”  Shargh  reported.  “If oil producers bordering the  Persian Gulf  show the
green light to replace Iran’s crude with theirs, whatever
happens, they will be key players in a move to sanction Iran’s
oil,” the Tehran-based newspaper cited Khatibi as saying in an
interview.  European Union foreign ministers will meet on Jan. 23 to
consider barring purchases of oil from Iran, the second-biggest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
after  Saudi Arabia . Should the bloc approve an embargo, its 27
members states would be prohibited from concluding new oil
contracts with Iran or renewing any that are due to expire, an
EU diplomat with knowledge of the talks said on Jan. 13.  Germany ,  France  and the U.K. have pushed for an embargo to
increase pressure on Iran over its nuclear program. Western
countries say the Gulf state may be seeking the capability to
build nuclear weapons. Iran says it wants atomic power for
civilian electricity and medical research.  Chakib Khelil, OPEC’s former president, said in a Jan. 13
interview that other members of the producers’ group would be
able to make up for a decline in Iranian crude supply. Iran
pumped 3.575 million barrels a day in December, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Khatibi, in his interview with Shargh, questioned whether
OPEC had as much as 4 million barrels a day in surplus capacity.
He said Arab crude producers would be able to provide oil of a
grade similar to Iran’s crude, though such an effort would prove
“costly” for them, the newspaper cited Khatibi as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  