-- Iran Receives Letter From U.S. on Strait of Hormuz, May Respond, IRNA Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-01-15T18:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/iran-receives-letter-from-u-s-on-strait-of-hormuz-may-respond-irna-says.html
Iran  acknowledged receipt of a
letter from the U.S. concerning the Strait of Hormuz, the
waterway that the Mideast nation has threatened to close, the
official  Islamic Republic News Agency said , citing Foreign
Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast .  Iran is studying the document, which was delivered by Iraqi
President Jalal Talabani, and will respond if “deemed
necessary,” IRNA said.  Susan Rice , U.S. Ambassador to the
 United Nations , gave a copy of the letter to Iran’s UN
representative and another copy was delivered to the Iranian
government by Switzerland’s ambassador to Tehran, Leu Agosti,
IRNA said.  Iran has threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz, the
world’s biggest choke point for traded seaborne oil, if
sanctions against purchases of its oil are imposed over its
nuclear program. Western countries allege that Iran’s nuclear-
development plans are aimed at building atomic weapons. Iran
says they are for civilian purposes and to generate electricity.  “I’m not going to get into the details of those
communications or mechanisms,” White House spokesman Tommy
Vietor said in response to an e-mail. Reinforcing what White
House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters Jan. 13, Vietor
said messages delivered to Iran’s leaders privately “would be
the same as what we’ve said publicly.”  Free Flow  The U.S. and other big oil importers “have a strong
interest in the free flow of commerce and freedom of navigation
in all international waterways,” Vietor said, adding that those
views have been communicated to Iran.  President  Barack Obama  “is willing to engage
constructively and seriously with Iran” about its nuclear
program, but he stressed it must live up to its international
obligations, Vietor said. Obama remains “committed to a
diplomatic solution to this issue if Iran is willing to move in
a different direction,” he said.  European Union foreign ministers will meet on Jan. 23 to
consider barring purchases of oil from Iran, the second-biggest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
after  Saudi Arabia . Should the bloc approve an embargo, its 27
member states would be prohibited from concluding new oil
contracts with Iran or renewing any that are due to expire, an
EU diplomat with knowledge of the talks said on Jan. 13.  Iran’s OPEC Governor Mohammad-Ali Khatibi called on Arab
neighbors not to support any European embargo on Iranian oil by
increasing crude supplies to replace the lost Iranian output,
Tehran-based newspaper Shargh reported today.  The recent visit of Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  to Tehran had nothing to do with the U.S. letter, IRNA
said.  Vietor declined to comment on a report by Israel Radio that
said a joint U.S.-Israel military exercise that was to be the
biggest ever between the two countries has been postponed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net 
Roger Runningen in Washington, at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Digby Lidstone at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net  