-- Kazakhs Vote for New Parliament After Riots
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v   a n d   S v e t l a n a   A n t o n c h e v a
-- 2012-01-15T10:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/kazakhs-vote-for-new-parliament-after-worst-violence-in-20-years.html
Voters in  Kazakhstan , the second-
biggest energy producer among former Soviet nations, go to the
polls today for early parliamentary elections, a month after the
nation endured its worst violence in 20 years.  Voting began at 7 a.m. local time at 9,764 polling stations
and will end at 8 p.m., according to Aigerim Tazhiyeva, a
spokeswoman for the Central Electoral Committee. Preliminary
results may be announced tomorrow, with the official tally to be
published within a week, she said Jan. 13 by phone.  Riots broke out last month in an oil-rich region in the
western part of the central Asian country, killing 16 people
after months of strikes by workers at the state-run energy
company. The ruling Nur Otan party, which polls suggest will win
four-fifths of the vote, has pledged to change the political
system following the unrest.  “We expect the weekend’s usually uneventful Kazakh
parliamentary elections to take place in a more fraught
political environment,”  Ivan Tchakarov , an economist at
 Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, said in a Jan. 13 note.
“Although we believe the elections will cement the leading role
of the presidential Nur Otan Party, the lower house of
parliament will now see at least one more party represented.”  BBB Rating  Central Asia’s largest economy probably swelled by 6.5
percent in 2011 and may expand 5.6 percent this year, according
to the  International Monetary Fund .  Fitch Ratings  raised
Kazakhstan’s sovereign credit rating one step to BBB on Nov. 21,
level with  Russia , as energy exports boosted foreign-currency
assets.  Turnout was 55 percent at 2 p.m. local time, with the
lowest level of 14 percent in Almaty, the nation’s financial
center, the electoral committee said.  “I’m sure Kazakh citizens will support stability,
development and efforts to improve people’s lives,” President
 Nursultan Nazarbayev  said in a Jan. 13 speech published on his
website. Other parties’ campaigns featured “empty rhetoric,
name-calling and absolutely no comprehension of real life.”  Nazarbayev, who has ruled the nation since 1989 in the
Soviet era, won a new five-year term last April with 95.5
percent backing. He was named “leader of the nation” in 2010,
giving him power to dictate policy even after retiring.  Nur Otan, Akzhol  Support for Nur Otan comes to 80.1 percent, according to a
Jan. 4-6 survey of 1,500 respondents conducted by the Institute
of Democracy research association. The Akzhol party is next with
7.3 percent backing, just above the legislature’s 7 percent
entry barrier, the poll showed. The margin of error was 2.5
percentage points.  “The opposition is only rushing for power, and it’s
unknown what it will do when it will get it,” Denis Neverov, a
27-year-old employee at a state-owned company, said today in the
capital city of Astana.  Bulat Abilov, head of the National Social Democratic Party,
and Gulzhan Yergaliyeva, another candidate from the only
opposition party, were banned from the ballot after filing false
reports on their income and property, the electoral commission
said Jan. 13 on its website.  “Everything was done to make open and honest elections,”
Nazarbayev  said  in Astana today, according to his website.
“This is a big exam for us.”  Modernization  “We feel that serious political changes are required” to
stave off “large-scale” unrest following the riots, Erlan
Karin, Nur Otan’s party secretary, said in a Jan. 9 interview.
The government’s composition will change after the parliamentary
elections and other steps will be taken to modernize the
political system, he said, without elaborating.  The discord, instigated by workers of  KazMunaiGas
Exploration Production (RDGZ)  in the town of Zhanaozen, was
“unprecedented in a country that has enjoyed one of the most
stable political environments in the region,”  Standard & Poor’s 
said Dec. 22, leaving its BBB+ credit rating unchanged.  The clashes in Zhanaozen were local and unlikely to spread
nationally, according to Andrei Chebotarev, head of Alternative,
a research institute in Almaty.  “The opposition won’t be able to arrange protests on the
same scale as those that happened in Russia,” he said.
Chebotarev was referring to demonstrations in Moscow last month
that targeted Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  after alleged vote-
rigging in Russian parliamentary elections.  Two Seats  Nur Otan won all the seats in Kazakhstan’s legislature in
an August 2007 vote. The election law was changed two years
later to ensure that if only one party passes the 7 percent
threshold, the party with the second-highest number of votes
gets no fewer than two seats, the  Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe  said last month in a report.  The elections will do little to alter the status quo and
fail to address investor concerns over who will lead the country
after the 71-year-old Nazarbayev retires, according to Kate
Mallinson, senior analyst at political-risk evaluator GPW.  “There will be a two-party parliament, but the second
party will be loyal to the president,” she said in a Jan. 11
telephone interview from  London . “This won’t lead to more
democracy in the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net ;
Svetlana Antoncheva in Astana at 
 santoncheva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 