-- Kuwait Investment Companies Need Government Support, Union Says
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-01-15T12:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/kuwait-investment-companies-need-government-support-union-says.html
Kuwaiti investment companies need
government intervention to overcome the effects of the economic
crisis, and failing to deal with their debt may hurt banks in
the country, said Asaad al-Banwan, chairman of the Union of
Investment Companies.  “The continued weakness of investment companies and their
inability to service their debt may cause a significantly
negative impact on the performance of local banks,” al-Banwan
said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Challenges of the financial crisis can be overcome by
government interference, and  Kuwait  is not an exception,” he
said. Given a lack of funding channels for investment companies,
the union “sees the necessity for the government to review its
stand toward the investment sector,” al-Banwan said.  About 10 percent of bank lending in Kuwait is to investment
companies, some of which defaulted amid the credit crisis after
asset values collapsed and frozen debt markets prevented them
from raising new loans. Investment companies had used cheap
credit during the boom years to invest in real estate and
private-equity assets.  Al-Banwan suggested the government might boost the private
sector’s role in the economy, balance the budget and pump
capital directly into companies among means of supporting
investment companies.  Kuwait’s 95 investment companies have 20 billion dinars
($71.6 billion) of assets under management, equivalent to 67
percent of total deposits in local banks, according to al-
Banwan. The combined profit of listed Kuwaiti companies dropped
to 1 billion dinars last year from about 4 billion dinars before
the 2008 crisis, he said. Kuwait’s benchmark share  index  has
plunged 54 percent since the end of 2007 and slid 16 percent
last year.  The Kuwait City-based union represents the country’s
investment companies and has 42 members, according to its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  