-- Nazarbayev Party Keeps Kazakh Dominance
-- B y   S v e t l a n a   A n t o n c h e v a   a n d   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-01-16T08:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/nazarbayev-party-fends-off-challengers-to-keep-kazakh-dominance.html
Kazakh President  Nursultan Nazarbayev ’s ruling party maintained its dominant role in
parliament even as two other parties unexpectedly won seats
following the worst violence in the oil-rich nation in 20 years.  Nur Otan  garnered 80.74 percent of the vote in yesterday’s
election, Kuandik Turgankulov, the head of the Central Electoral
Commission, told reporters today in the capital, Astana, after
100 percent of votes were counted. The pro-business Akzhol party
and the Communists scored above the 7 percent threshold to win
seats in the Majilis, the lower house of parliament, he said.
Turnout was 75.07 percent.  Nazarbayev, 71, who has ruled the Central Asian state since
1989 in the Soviet era, is seeking to staunch discontent and
promote a multiparty system in a nation shaken by mass riots and
clashes with the police. The president, speaking at Nur Otan’s
campaign headquarters after the vote,  said  Kazakh citizens voted
for “stability, calm, tolerance, friendship of a multinational
people.”  “We see the virtual continuation of the political status
quo as the only likely scenario,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of
research at BNP Paribas in Moscow, said by e-mail today. “At
the same time, political monopoly of Nur Otan has been broken.”  The tenge weakened for the first time in five days, losing
0.2 percent to 148.43 per dollar as of 12:37 p.m. in Astana. The
Kazakh currency has gained less than 0.1 percent against the
greenback in 2012, while the ruble advanced 0.6 percent and
Ukraine’s hryvnia weakened 0.3 percent.  ‘Free and Fair’  No election in Kazakhstan has ever been deemed “free and
fair” by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
 Europe , the continent’s democracy watchdog, which is scheduled
to hold a briefing in Astana today.  Riots broke out last month in an oil-rich region in the
west of the former  Soviet Union ’s second-biggest energy
producer, killing 16 people and leaving more than 100 injured in
the worst violence since the former Soviet republic won
independence two decades ago.  Change and Modernize  Kazakhstan will change and modernize its political system
because of the risk of “large-scale” unrest following the mass
riots, Erlan Karin, secretary of the Nur Otan party, said in a
Jan. 9 interview.  Nur Otan won all the seats in Kazakhstan’s legislature in
an August 2007 vote. The election law was changed two years
later to ensure that if only one party passes the 7 percent
threshold, the party with the second-highest number of votes
gets no less than two seats.  Kazakhstan is the second-biggest oil producer in the former
Soviet Union after  Russia , with output of about 1.6 million
barrels a day, about the same as  Libya  before the uprising that
ousted  Muammar Qaddafi . It has attracted companies including
Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc, ConocoPhillips, Total
SA, Eni SpA and BG Group Plc.  The authorities permitted elections be held in the town of
Zhanaozen, where the protests were instigated by oil workers at
state-owned KazMunaiGaz National Co. units after disputes over
job losses and wages.  ‘Rather Actively’  Voting in Zhanaozen proceeded in a “stable situation,
calmly and at the same time rather actively,” with turnout of
more than 50 percent, Nurdaulet Suindikov, a spokesman for the
Prosecutor General’s Office, told reporters yesterday in Astana.  Central Asia’s largest economy probably swelled by 6.5
percent in 2011 and may expand 5.6 percent this year, according
to the  International Monetary Fund .  Fitch Ratings  raised
Kazakhstan’s sovereign credit rating one step to BBB on Nov. 21,
level with Russia, as energy exports boosted foreign-currency
assets.  “The next 5 to 7 years will be very important” because
“we need to stabilize what was achieved and break forward,”
said Nazarbayev’s eldest daughter, Dariga, who represented Nur
Otan in the election. That’s why “we need a strong and even
malicious parliament.”  Observers from the  Commonwealth of Independent States , a
grouping of former Soviet republics, found no violations during
the conduct of the vote, Russian state television  reported .  New Parliament  “The new parliament will be populated by pro-government
deputies except some of them will now be part of another
party,” Lilit Gevorgyan, an analyst at IHS Global Insight in
 London , said by e-mail. “The change in the name only of the
parliamentary parties is unlikely to convince ordinary Kazakhs
that positive changes are on the way.”  Akzhol received 7.46 percent and the Communists 7.2
percent, according to the Central Electoral Commission. The
opposition National Social Democratic party got 1.59 percent of
the vote.  “We have our own position, which we will defend and, if
necessary, we’ll enter into tough discussions,” Azat Peruashev,
the chairman of Akzhol and former head of a Kazakh business
lobbying group, said yesterday. “I wouldn’t have sought to
enter parliament only to press buttons silently.”  Bulat Abilov, head of the National Social Democratic Party,
and Gulzhan Yergaliyeva, another candidate from the only
opposition party, were banned from the ballot after filing false
reports on their income and property, the electoral commission
said Jan. 13 on its website.  ‘Transparency, Openness, Fairness’  Nazarbayev told supporters after polls closed that the
election was “unprecedented for its transparency, openness,
fairness.” The president won a new five-year term last April
with 95.5 percent backing. He was named “leader of the nation”
in 2010, giving him power to dictate policy even after he
retires.  The main question is whether the legislative body will
become “a serious political institution that can guarantee
stability and continuity,” as this may be the last
parliamentary election under Nazarbayev’s control, Dosym
Satpayev, director of the  Kazakhstan  Risks Assessment Group,
said by phone.  “Time is playing against the current political system,”
Satpayev said, adding that building a succession mechanism,
including a strong parliament, must have begun eight to 10 years
ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svetlana Antoncheva in Astana at 
 santoncheva1@bloomberg.net ;
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  