-- Nigeria Oil Shutdown Would Be ‘Last Resort’ as Strike Enters Second Week
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-01-16T06:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/nigeria-oil-shutdown-last-resort-as-strike-enters-second-week.html
Nigerian labor unions spurned an
offer by President Goodluck Jonathan to cut gasoline prices in
 Africa ’s biggest crude producer and said they’ll extend a
national strike over the abolition of fuel subsidies into a
second week.  Oil union Pengassan said it will only shut down oil output
as “a last resort” in Africa’s top crude producer to give more
time for negotiations with the government to end the strike,
which has slowed trading in stocks and the naira, closed ports
and banks and sparked street protests. The President today
unilaterally reduced gasoline prices and the country’s oil
minister pledged to speed up oil industry reform.  “Government will continue to pursue full deregulation of
the downstream petroleum sector,” Jonathan said in a statement.
“Government is working hard to reduce recurrent expenditure in
line with current realities.”  The strike began on Jan. 9 after the government ended
subsidies on Jan. 1, which it said cost 1.2 trillion naira ($7.4
billion) last year, and pledged to spend the savings on  power
plants  and roads. At the same time Jonathan is facing a surge in
religious violence in parts of the north where he has declared a
state of emergency and says Islamic militants pose a worse
threat to the country than the 1967-70 civil war.  Bombs, Guns  At least 85 people have been killed in bomb and gun attacks
since Christmas Day on churches in Abuja and in the north that
the government blames on Boko Haram, a militant Islamic group
inspired by  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement. The northeastern
Adamawa state on Jan. 14 declared a 24-hour curfew in four of
its districts to curb the violence.  The price of gasoline was cut to 97 naira a liter. The
price had more than doubled from 65 naira when the subsidies
were abolished.  The government’s offer to reduce fuel prices falls short of
the unions’ demand for a full reversal, the  Nigeria  Labour
Congress and the Trade Union Congress, the country’s biggest
labor federations, said in a statement yesterday, before
Jonathan’s announcement. “The indefinite strikes, rallies and
protests continue nationwide” as of Jan. 16, they said.  Diezani Alison-Madueke, the country’s oil minister, said
that she has set up bodies to eradicate corruption and examine
management in state oil companies including the Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp. She will meet with the Senate this week
to try and speed up the passage of a bill needed for reform of
the industry.  Deferred Shutdown  “All hands are on deck to ensure full probity and
accountability in the oil industry,” she said in a statement.
“Having spent the last few months painstakingly reviewing its
operations and designing a vision for the future, it is now time
to deliver.”  The two labor federations have asked Pengassan “to defer
the shutting down of oil production and export,” the union said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The “postponement will
enable labor and civil society groups explore ongoing
consultations and negotiations in resolving the current
nationwide strike.”  While oil output and exports remain unaffected by the
strike, Pengassan is poised “to execute immediately the
systematic shutdown of oil production should the negotiation
with the government break down,” the Lagos-based union said.  Oil, Cocoa  Nigeria pumped about 2.2 million barrels of oil a day last
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, accounting for
almost all of its export income. At least 90 percent of
Nigeria’s crude is produced by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , based in
 The Hague ;  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ;  San Ramon , California-based
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ;  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  in joint ventures with the
state-owned NNPC.  The cost of the labor action to sub-Saharan Africa’s
second-biggest economy may be more than $1 billion a day,
according to Gregory Kronsten, head of macroeconomic research at
FBN Capital Ltd. in  London .  Trading on the country’s bourse last week was about a third
of the 1.05 billion shares that changed hands the week earlier,
the  Nigerian Stock Exchange  said in an e-mailed report. The
 Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index (NGSEINDX)  fell 0.2 percent on Jan.
13 to 20,840.97 while the naira fell 0.2 percent to 162.3 to the
dollar as of 6:51 a.m. in Lagos, its lowest since Jan. 2.  Dented Credibility  Crude oil for February delivery gained 0.2 percent to
$98.87 per barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  as of 1:41 p.m. in  Singapore . Cocoa prices
in  New York  have advanced 4.6 percent in New York since the
strike started on concern shipment from Nigeria, the world’s
fourth-biggest producer of the beans, will be disrupted.  “We’re holding the necessary consultations” to end the
strike, Labor Minister Chukwuemeka Wogu told reporters in Abuja
yesterday. “We expect to have an agreement soon.”  The capping of gasoline prices in Nigeria, where two-thirds
of the population of about 164 million live on less than $1.25 a
day, led to a shortage of investment in refineries that forced
the West African nation to import about 70 percent of its fuel.  In opposing Jonathan’s reform, union leaders and protest
groups have focused their criticisms on government waste and
corruption, especially those associated with fuel imports and
distribution.  “The government’s credibility is seriously dented, ”
 Bismarck Rewane , analyst and chief executive officer of Lagos-
based Financial Derivatives Co., said in an interview. “They’ll
have to earn it back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  