-- Pakistan’s Gilani Praises Army, Calls for Harmony in Meeting With Leaders
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   P a u l   T i g h e
-- 2012-01-15T05:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/pakistan-s-gilani-praises-army-calls-for-harmony-in-meeting-with-leaders.html
Pakistan ’s Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  praised the armed forces as a pillar of the nation
as government and military leaders met amid their worst tensions
since the end of army rule in 2008.  “Together, in complete harmony with each other and other
vital institutions, we can change this country’s destiny,”
Gilani said yesterday, according to a government statement.
“National unity is the need of the hour.”  Gilani hosted a meeting of the Defence Committee of the
Cabinet in the capital, Islamabad, attended by army chief
General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani and other military leaders and
government ministers, APP said.  Tensions between Gilani and the military have risen over a
Supreme Court investigation into a purported government memo
seeking help to prevent a possible military coup. The prime
minister has asked the  National Assembly  to vote tomorrow on a
resolution pledging “full confidence and trust” in the
political leadership and calling on all state institutions to
“strictly function within the limits imposed on them by the
constitution.”  Gilani and President Asif Ali Zardari dismiss claims by a
Pakistani-American businessman that their ex-ambassador in
 Washington  sought intervention against a possible power grab by
an army angered at a raid deep into the country by the U.S.
forces who killed  Osama bin Laden  in May last year.  Violating Constitution  Gilani last week accused the army of violating the
constitution by sending statements on the memo to the Supreme
Court directly, rather than through civilian officials. Gilani’s
government opposed the investigation, saying it already had
announced a parliamentary inquiry.  Kayani Jan. 11 warned of “grievous consequences” after
Gilani’s comments. Shortly after, Gilani fired the defense
secretary, a retired army lieutenant general.  “Democracy provides avenues to force national consensus
and each organ and state institution has to play its due role,
within its respective domain, to bring forth the best in
promoting Pakistan’s national interest,” Gilani told the
defense committee yesterday.  Kayani met with Zardari late yesterday in Islamabad. They
discussed the current security situation, the president’s office
said in a statement, without giving any details.  Gilani’s ruling coalition asked for the emergency sitting
of parliament after the  Supreme Court  warned Jan. 10 that it may
charge the prime minister with contempt for his failure to
pursue corruption cases against Zardari.  ‘Democracy or Dictatorship’  “You have to decide whether this country should have
democracy or dictatorship,” Gilani said in the  National
Assembly  during a specially convened session two days ago. “I
want to warn the opposition that if there is any stage being set
up, it’s not for us. We both will go.”  The challenges from both the army, which has ruled Pakistan
for more than 32 years since independence in 1947, and the
judiciary come amid the country’s worst-ever energy crisis.
Power shortages have shut factories and sparked violent street
protests in the biggest cities. The government cut its growth
forecast for the economy in the fiscal year ending June to 3.6
percent from 4.2 percent.  Gilani on Dec. 22 warned against a conspiracy to oust his
administration by a “state within a state,” a reference to the
army, and later denied rumors that he was aiming to remove top
generals. Former prime minister and now opposition leader  Nawaz Sharif  has said early elections are the only way to end the
current impasse.  Kayani has said repeatedly there will be no coup. “The
army will continue to support the democratic process in the
country,” he said in a Dec. 23 speech to troops reported on the
military press office’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  