-- Perry Files Emergency Request to Get on Virginia Republican Primary Ballot
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-16T16:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/perry-asks-u-s-appeals-court-to-put-his-name-on-virginia-primary-ballot.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  asked a
U.S. appeals court to place his name on the ballot for the
Virginia Republican presidential primary or to halt the printing
of ballots pending his appeal.  Perry filed his emergency request yesterday with the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in Richmond, Virginia.  Newt Gingrich  joined him
in an appeal filed Jan. 14 with the same court. The presidential
hopefuls are challenging a Virginia law requiring that people
gathering signatures for a candidate’s petition to appear on the
ballot be eligible to vote in the state.  On Jan. 13, U.S. District Judge John Gibney in Richmond
ruled that Perry, Gingrich and two other Republican presidential
candidates waited too long to challenge the eligibility
requirements for Virginia’s primary ballot. The candidates say
the rule violates their rights under the First Amendment of the
U.S. Constitution.  “The court abused its discretion in determining movant
rested on his rights for such a period of time to allow the
commonwealth to trample on movant’s First Amendment rights,”
Perry said in a filing yesterday.  Perry’s lawsuit, filed Dec. 27, sought a temporary order to
halt Virginia officials from printing the ballots, or to require
them to include his name on them.  Challenge Denied  Gibney denied a challenge by Perry, Gingrich,  Rick Santorum 
and  Jon Huntsman , who argued Virginia’s primary rules requiring
those seeking to have their names placed on the ballot submit
10,000 signatures from valid Virginia voters are improper and
unconstitutional. Huntsman dropped out of the race today and
endorsed frontrunner  Mitt Romney . He was running last in an
average of three statewide polls in  South Carolina , which will
hold its primary on Jan. 21.  “This appeal seeks higher court action to protect the
rights of presidential candidates and Virginia voters so those
voters have a full access to the Republican candidates of their
choice,” said  Ray Sullivan , a spokesman for the Perry campaign,
in an e-mail yesterday. R.C. Hammond, a spokesman for the
Gingrich campaign, didn’t respond to an e-mail yesterday seeking
comment on the appeal.  In its response, the office of  Virginia  Attorney General
Kenneth Cuccinelli asked the appeals court to reject Perry’s
request, saying the governor’s challenge came too late and he
didn’t have enough signatures to begin with.  ‘Sound Requirement’  “Governor Perry is not being denied a place on the ballot
because of the circulator residency/voter eligibility
requirement,” according to the filing. “He is being denied a
place on the ballot because he did not meet the constitutionally
sound requirement of submitting 10,000 valid signatures by the
constitutionally valid deadline.”  Virginia’s rule requiring petition circulators to be
eligible voters is probably unconstitutional, Gibney said during
a hearing where he issued his ruling. Still, he told the
candidates’ lawyers that they waited almost six months from the
day signatures could be collected to file a lawsuit, a delay he
called “unreasonable.”  Adding the names to the March 6 ballot now would jeopardize
the state’s primary process, the judge said.  In yesterday’s filing, Perry argued he sued on the same day
the names of the candidates who qualified for Virginia’s primary
were scheduled to be certified by the state.  ‘Number Required’  Perry “cannot be charged with a lack of diligence prior to
submitting his petition signatures, as he reasonably expected to
be able to acquire the number required” under Virginia law,
according to the filing.  Romney, the former governor of  Massachusetts , and U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  are the only Republicans to
make it onto the ballot for Virginia’s primary on so-called
Super Tuesday.  Cuccinelli argued in court papers last week that materials
for the primary needed to go to the printer immediately to meet
legal deadlines for getting ballots to absentee and overseas
voters.  The district court case is Perry v. Judd, 3:11-cv-00856,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).
The appeal is Perry v. Judd, 12-1067, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  