-- Rajoy’s Spanish Radio Silence Is Set to Be Broken as Sarkozy Visits Madrid
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-01-16T10:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/rajoy-s-radio-silence-set-to-be-broken-as-sarkozy-visits-madrid.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
is set to hold his first news conference since taking office on
Dec. 21, exposing his deficit-reduction plans to public scrutiny
three days after  Standard & Poor’s  cut Spain’s credit rating.  Rajoy will convene a “brief press meeting” from 3:15 p.m.
in Madrid today after he hosts French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
for talks, his office said. With the exception of an interview
with state-controlled Spanish newswire Efe, the last time Rajoy
took questions from a reporter was before his landslide victory
against the Socialists almost two months ago.  “Rajoy’s style is less than transparent,” Michael Derks,
chief strategist at FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in  London ,
said in an interview. Investors “need to understand what his
vision is and how he intends to rectify the enormous financial
challenges  Spain  is now confronting.”  Rajoy was elected on Nov. 20 on a platform of tackling the
euro area’s  third-largest budget deficit  and saving Spain from
becoming the fourth European country to succumb to the sovereign
debt crisis that came to light in Greece in late 2009. That
didn’t deter S&P from lowering Spain’s credit rating two levels
to A from AA-, its second downgrade of Spain in three months.  S&P cited ‘the impact of deepening political, financial and
monetary problems” in the euro region for its decision, and
warned of a possible further downgrade for Spain if “the
government does not undertake additional measures to broadly
meet its budgetary targets.”  France  lost its AAA rating among
the nine euro-area downgrades announced by S&P.  Yields Edge Up  The yield on the Spanish  10-year benchmark bond  rose two
basis points to 5.24 percent today as Spain prepares to auction
12-month and 18-month bills tomorrow. The  spread  with similar
German maturities widened one point to 347 basis points.  By shunning the media at a time when recession is looming
and half the population aged under 25 is out of work, Rajoy
risks failing to persuade voters to accept the extra budget pain
that may be necessary, said Javier Del Rey Morato, a political
communication professor at Madrid’s Complutense University.  “Rajoy knows he has a very difficult four years ahead
which is going to be packed with bad news for everyone,” Del
Rey Morato said in a telephone interview. “He is going to have
to correct this communication deficit.”  Sworn In  The new prime minister didn’t take any questions when he
was sworn in last month. Then, on Dec. 30, he announced a 15
billion-euro ($19 billion) package of tax increases and spending
cuts to help plug a budget  deficit  one third larger than the
previous government estimated. Moody’s estimates a 40 billion
euro adjustment is needed to meet Spain’s commitment to narrow
the budget gap this year to 4.4 percent of gross domestic
product from about 8 percent in 2011.  Rajoy dispatched his deputy, Soraya Saenz de Santamaria, to
explain to reporters the government’s decision to raise taxes in
breach of an election pledge. His sole interview was granted to
Efe on Jan. 10 after the opposition demanded he explain the tax
increases.  “Markets are unlikely to remain patient for much longer
after the big deficit target miss last year,” said Georg Grodzki, global head of credit research at London-based Legal &
General Investment Management, which oversees about $515 billion
of assets. “Investor concerns may rise again.”  While  Chancellor Angela Merkel  gave her reaction to the S&P
downgrades at a press conference two days ago, Rajoy used a
speech in Malaga to announce his response. He pledged spending
cuts and a banking-system cleanup, saying his government “knows
exactly what it has to do to improve the reputation of Spain.”  ‘Actions Speak’  “The prime minister prefers to let his actions speak for
him,” Carmen Martinez Castro, deputy minister for
communication, said in a telephone interview. “Over-abundance
of comments often confuses the situation rather than making it
clearer.”  Rajoy has also increased pensions while pledging tax breaks
and to preserve state-funded education and healthcare. He said
he won’t raise value-added tax or cut civil servants’ wages.  That may not be enough to stop his administration from
having to seek outside aid from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund , following  Greece , Ireland and
Spain’s Iberian neighbor  Portugal , said Thomas Costerg, an
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in London.  “It’s time for the Spanish government to take firmer
control to restore confidence, or it risks being pushed to
accept an EU-IMF bailout,” Costerg said.  Parliament Waits  While the media have a first opportunity to quiz Rajoy
today, members of parliament will have to wait until next month
before they can put questions to the premier. Rajoy won’t
address parliament before the next EU summit in Brussels on Jan.
30, Saenz de Santamaria said last week.  Rajoy’s communication approach contrasts with that of his
Italian counterpart,  Mario Monti , who faces a similar battle
against surging yields. Monti, a former economics professor who
heads an unelected government, has given four press conferences
of over an hour, including one marathon lasting three hours.  Monti, who subjected  Italy  to its third round of austerity
measures in six months to regain investor confidence, also made
several TV appearances and gave interviews to foreign newspapers
including Le Figaro, Die Welt and the Financial Times.  Rajoy’s low-profile strategy is a “logical continuation”
of the attitude he has demonstrated throughout his career, said
 Antonio Barroso , an analyst at Eurasia and a former government
pollster in Spain.  What’s more, the government’s austerity measures are backed
by 53 percent of the population, a Metroscopia poll of 1,000
voters for El Pais published Jan. 8 showed. The poll was
conducted Jan. 4-5. No margin of error was given.  Rajoy “is letting his deputy minister and economic team
take the pain publicly,” Barroso said. “As long as we don’t
see a fall in the support for Rajoy, he has no incentive to
change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  