-- Ravens Defeat Texans 20-13 to Reach AFC Championship Game Against Patriots
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-01-15T21:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/ravens-defeat-texans-20-13-to-reach-afc-championship-game-against-patriots.html
The  Baltimore Ravens  beat the
Houston Texans 20-13 to advance to the American Football
Conference championship game, where they’ll play the  New England
Patriots  for a spot in the Super Bowl.  The third-round lineup of the National Football League
playoffs will be completed today when the  New York Giants  visit
the Super Bowl champion Green Bay Packers. The winner of that
game will face the  San Francisco 49ers  in the National Football
Conference title game.  Ravens quarterback  Joe Flacco  threw touchdown passes to
Kris Wilson and Anquan Boldin at M&T Bank Stadium in Baltimore
as the Ravens opened a 17-3 first quarter lead and held on for
the victory. Baltimore went on to win the  Super Bowl  11 years
ago after their only previous home victory in the playoffs.  “When we got up 17-3, the number one thing I said was,
‘They’re going to make a rally. Every great team makes a
rally,’” Ravens linebacker Ray Lewis said in a televised
interview. “This is what playoff football is about.”  Baltimore (13-4) has won 11 straight home games dating back
to last season. It went unbeaten at home for the first time in
franchise history in winning its only AFC North division title
since 2006.  Houston’s Danieal Manning opened today’s game with a 60-
yard kickoff return, which led to a 40-yard field goal by Neil Rackers.  Baltimore responded less than two minutes later as Flacco
found tight end Wilson in the end zone for a 1-yard score. It
was Wilson’s first reception of the season and his only
touchdown since Nov. 8, 2009, when he played for the  San Diego
Chargers .  Boldin Scores  Baltimore extended its lead to 17-3 with a touchdown by
Boldin and a 48-yard field goal from Billy Cundiff.  Both Baltimore touchdowns followed turnovers, the first
after Jacoby Jones fumbled and the second following an
interception of rookie Texans quarterback T.J. Yates.  Rackers kicked a 33-yard field goal and  Arian Foster  scored
for Houston on a 1-yard run in the second quarter to cut the
Ravens’ lead to 17-13.  Although they trailed by four points at halftime, the
Texans outgained the Ravens 181-118 in total offensive yards.
Houston ensured the third quarter ended scoreless when they
stopped  Ray Rice , the second-leading rusher in the NFL during
the regular season, short of the goal line on a 4th-and-1 play.  Fifth Sack on Flacco  Baltimore punted on its opening drive of the fourth quarter
and its next possession ended the same way after Houston’s fifth
sack on Flacco.  The home team got the ball back four plays later when
Lardarius Webb intercepted Yates for the second time. The drive
ended with a 44-yard field goal by Cundiff to make it 20-13 with
2:56 to play.  Yates, in his seventh professional start, was again
intercepted by Ed Reed with 1:51 remaining as he tried a long
pass to  Andre Johnson  in the corner near the end zone.  Baltimore sealed the win when Yates’ deep pass on 4th-and-1
fell incomplete at the goal line with 11 seconds left.
The Texans finish the season with an 11-7 record.  Baltimore, which is now 6-0 all-time against the Texans,
won its opening playoff game for the fourth straight year. Since
 John Harbaugh  became coach, the team has gone 5-3 in the
postseason, with the seven previous games played on the road.  The Ravens last hosted a playoff game after the 2006
season, when they lost to the  Indianapolis Colts  in the second
round. Their only postseason victory at home was a 21-3 wild-
card win over the Denver Broncos on Dec. 31, 2000.  Brady Ties Record  Yesterday,  Tom Brady  threw a playoff record-tying six
touchdown passes as the Patriots thrashed the Broncos 45-10.  New
England  will host the Ravens at 3 p.m. eastern time on Jan. 22.  “It’s a big test next week. Tom is playing excellent,”
Lewis said. “What they did to the Broncos last night, I think
they sent a message to whoever was coming up there. So we’ve got
our hands full.”  The 49ers take on the Giants or Packers later that day,
with the winners of the two games playing for the NFL
championship in the Super Bowl in Indianapolis on Feb. 5.  San Francisco trailed the New Orleans Saints 32-29 after
 Jimmy Graham  caught a 66-yard touchdown pass with 1:37 to play
yesterday. The 49ers then pulled out the 36-32 win as
quarterback Alex Smith capped an 85-yard drive with a 14-yard
scoring pass to Vernon Davis with 9 seconds remaining.  The lead changed four times in the final 4:02 at
Candlestick Park in  San Francisco .  The Giants are seeking to avenge a 38-35 loss in East
Rutherford,  New Jersey , on Dec. 4 and send the Packers to their
first home defeat in 14 games. It’s the first postseason matchup
at Lambeau Field since the Giants won 23-20 in overtime in the
NFC title game four years ago.  Green Bay’s preparations were overshadowed by the death of
21-year-old Michael T. Philbin, the son of Packers offensive
coordinator Joe Philbin. His body was retrieved from the Fox
River in Oshkosh,  Wisconsin , on Jan. 9, the day after he went
missing. Joe Philbin rejoined the team for today’s game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 