-- American Red Cross Cited by FDA for Blood-Safety Rule Violations
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-01-17T00:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/red-cross-cited-by-fda-for-u-s-blood-safety-rule-violations-for-14th-time.html
(Corrects amount of recommended fine in 14th paragraph of
story published Jan. 15.)  The American  Red Cross , the biggest
U.S. supplier of donated blood, failed to correct violations of
blood-safety rules, raising the risk that ill-suited blood will
be used in transfusions, U.S. regulators said.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  fined the Red Cross
$9.59 million, according to a  letter  from the agency to the Red
Cross made public on Jan. 13. The organization has been cited 14
times since 2003 and fined about $46 million for similar
offenses.  The Red Cross didn’t ensure that all staff had adequate
blood-safety training and hasn’t created a complete list of
prospective donors who were disqualified from giving blood,
according to the letter. The Washington-based consumer group
Public Citizen this month urged the agency to levy sanctions.  “Many of the violations recounted in this letter are
virtually identical to violations charged” in previous letters
from the agency, the FDA said. The Red Cross “has known of
these continuing problems and has failed to take adequate steps
to correct them.”  The FDA didn’t find evidence that the lapses led to any
serious health consequences for blood recipients, said Mary Malarkey, head of compliance at the agency’s Center for
Biologics Evaluation and Research, in a telephone interview.  Blood Supply Safety  “The safety of the nation’s blood supply is one of our top
priorities, and we have no reason to believe that it has been
compromised,” Malarkey said. “It’s very important to note that
people who need transfusions should continue to take their
doctors’ advice, and we encourage people to donate blood.”  The 2003 consent decree set penalties for failing to follow
U.S. standards aimed at preventing blood contamination. The
latest fines focused on an inspection conducted 15 months ago at
the Red Cross’ Donor and Client Support Center in Philadelphia,
the organization said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The blood supply is “safer today than ever before and
people should not hesitate to give or receive blood,” the Red
Cross responded in a statement.  “We are disappointed that the FDA believed it necessary to
issue a fine for an inspection conducted so long ago and it is
important to know we have already taken corrective steps to
address those matters,” according to the statement.  The organization is “fully committed to meeting all FDA
standards, has made significant progress in working with the FDA
to comply with their regulations,” according to the statement.  Red Cross Comment  Red Cross spokeswoman Stephanie Millian declined a request
for an interview with top officials from the organization,
saying, “We don’t discuss our relationship with the FDA.”  The 2010 violations included a failure to ensure that staff
handling donated blood have enough training and experience to
ensure “competent performance of their assigned functions” and
make sure donated blood is safe, the FDA said in the letter.  FDA inspectors found that the Red Cross “has not
established an accurate and complete list” of people who have
been disqualified from donating because of potential health
problems such as infectious diseases. Inadequate record-keeping
increases the risk of distributing blood that shouldn’t have
been accepted for donation, the agency said.  Public Citizen  urged U.S. Health and Human Services
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  in a Jan. 6 letter to levy the $9.59
million fine on the Red Cross after reviewing 2010 inspection
reports. The FDA is part of the department.  $37 Million in Fines  “Since the FDA and American Red Cross’s 2003 agreement,
the Red Cross has been previously fined $37 million, but the
substandard performance of critical Red Cross blood handling
functions continues,” said  Sidney Wolfe , director of Public
Citizen’s Health Research Group, in a Jan. 6  statement .  Wolfe didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
FDA’s decision to levy the fines.  Many of the problems cited by the FDA were related to the
Red Cross’s consolidation of blood collection activities
previously handled at 35 regional offices into two facilities in
Philadelphia and  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . The centers were
“chronically understaffed” during the consolidation that
occurred from May 2008 to March 2010, the FDA said.  “In response to the internal audits,” the facilities
“repeatedly promised corrective actions, some of which had not
been completed or were ineffective at the time of the FDA
inspection in September and October 2010,” the FDA said.  The Red Cross said it was aware of the challenges from the
consolidation and was taking action to address them.  The agency  fined  the Red Cross $16 million in 2010 for
mismanagement of blood products and manufacturing violations.
Those lapses didn’t endanger any patients, the agency said at
the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  