-- Republican Presidential Hopefuls Make Appeals at South Carolina Churches
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-15T20:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/republican-presidential-hopefuls-make-appeals-at-south-carolina-churches.html
Rick Santorum  tried to capitalize on
a call from evangelical leaders to coalesce behind an
alternative to Mitt Romney as Republican presidential candidates
made their pitches at South Carolina worship services.  Santorum’s endorsement came on the final weekend before the
Jan. 21 primary in a state where 60 percent of 2008 Republican
primary voters said in  exit polls  that they consider themselves
“born again” or evangelical Christians.  “I’m the consistent conservative,” Santorum said on “Fox
News Sunday,” when asked about the endorsement. “I’m someone
who’s willing to stand up for all of the issues, not just the
moral and cultural issues, but economic issues and the moral
crisis of this debt and this explosion of government.”  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  declined to answer
a reporter who asked whether too much is being made of the
evangelicals’ endorsement as he left a church in North
Charleston.  Santorum received 85 of 114 votes on the third ballot at a
gathering of religious leaders on a ranch near Bleiblerville,
Texas, defeating Gingrich, Tony Perkins, president of the Family
Research Council, told reporters on a conference call yesterday.  Santorum isn’t the obvious alternative to Romney, Gingrich
said today on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program, adding that
polls have shown he’s “the strongest rival” to Romney in South
Carolina. If he loses in the state, Gingrich said, he’d reassess
his candidacy.  Boost to Santorum  The endorsement may give a boost to Santorum, a former U.S.
senator from  Pennsylvania , among social conservatives who give
greater weight to abortion, gay marriage and religious freedom.
Evangelicals helped propel former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  into second place in  South Carolina  four years ago, and
did so for Santorum this year in the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses, where
he almost tied Romney for first place.  Speaking to more than 1,000 at the  Cathedral of Praise 
church, Gingrich stressed his opposition to abortion.  “If you believe life begins at conception, then you are
inevitably into a series of conclusions that are difficult and
challenging,” he said. “It means that at minimum you would
defund Planned Parenthood of all taxpayer money and take that
money and give it to adoption services.”  Gingrich, speaking the day after Santorum visited the same
church, also argued that voters should look for someone who will
shake things up in  Washington .  Very Blunt  “I have a reputation for being very blunt and very
plainspoken,” he said. “I have earned this reputation.
Sometimes it makes me a little controversial, and let me tell
you, when the system is as sick as the current system is, a
little controversy will be a good thing.”  Gingrich also acknowledged his long record of controversy.  “I don’t come here today as a perfect person,” said
Gingrich, who is on his third marriage. “I don’t come here
today without -- I guess the advertisement is -- baggage.”  Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. received the
 endorsement  today of the State newspaper in South Carolina’s
capital of Columbia, while Romney, who took the day off from the
campaign trail, won the  backing  of the Greenville News.  Reappearing in South Carolina later today will be U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , who has made just one campaign
appearance in the state since his second-place showing in the
New Hampshire primary on Jan. 10. The libertarian-leaning
candidate was scheduled to attend an endorsement announcement in
Myrtle Beach, South Carolina.  Not Dropping Out  After the voting in Texas, Santorum said yesterday he
wouldn’t ask others to drop out of the race to help focus social
conservatives.  Representatives for each contender for the nomination, with
the exception of Huntsman, spoke in support of their candidate,
said Perkins, who described the group as “conservative leaders,
businessmen and political activists.”  Organizers included Gary Bauer, president of American
Values in Washington, and Donald Wildmon, founder of the
American Family Association of Tupelo,  Mississippi , Perkins
said. Also attending was  Richard Land , president of the
Nashville, Tennessee-based Ethics and Religious Liberty
Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention.  Romney’s Mormon faith wasn’t discussed by the evangelical
group, which included members of several Christian
denominations, Perkins said.  ‘Reliable’ Santorum  No coordinated effort to support Santorum is expected,
Perkins said, though the groups represented may step up
fundraising and direct-mail programs to help him.  Perkins described Santorum as “reliable” and said that
stumbles by Texas Governor  Rick Perry  “were too great to
overcome” for him in a general election.  Perry said today on CNN’s “State of the Union” that
voters will decide who wins in South Carolina.  “I’ve been in this business long enough to understand that
you’re not going to get everyone to love you,” he said. “It’s
not organizations that elect; it’s the people and we’re going
directly to the people.”  Asked whether he would continue on to  Florida ’s Jan. 31
primary even if he placed last in South Carolina, Perry said,
“That’s our intention.”  Campaigning yesterday in Sumter, South Carolina, Romney
didn’t address the Santorum endorsement. He also ignored shouted
questions from a reporter as he signed autographs.  Conservative Elements  U.S. Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , who supports Romney,
dismissed the Santorum announcement on CNN’s “State of the
Union.” He said the  Republican Party  needs to be concerned with
not putting too much focus on the most conservative elements of
its membership.  “Jobs and the economy are the transcendent issues of this
campaign,” said McCain, the Republican presidential nominee in
2008. He said the economy is “a much higher priority for the
voters” of South Carolina and on that score “every poll shows
 Mitt Romney  is most electable.”  The  South Carolina (BEESSC)  contest will play out in an economic
environment that’s worse than the national average. The state’s
 unemployment rate  was 9.9 percent in November, the most recent
month available, compared with December’s  national rate  of 8.5
percent. That’s high enough to put South Carolina in the top 10
states for the most unemployment in November.  On the final weekend before the primary, advertising also
grew more frequent across the state.  A political action committee backing Perry began airing an
ad that attacks Gingrich on ethics and accuses Santorum of
voting for pay raises and locally targeted federal spending
projects known as earmarks.  Winning Our Future, a committee backing Gingrich, is airing
two new ads in South Carolina. One links Romney to President
Barack Obama’s 2010 health-care overhaul and says Romney is
“not conservative” and “not electable.”  The Red White and Blue Fund, a group supporting Santorum’s
campaign, began airing a commercial that promotes his opposition
to abortion and radical Islam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in North Charleston, South Carolina, at 
   jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Brenham, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  