-- Rupee to Gain Fastest in ‘12 on Inflow, Top Forecaster Says
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-01-16T04:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/rupee-to-gain-fastest-in-12-on-asia-inflow-top-forecaster-says.html
Asian currencies will rebound this
year led by  India ’s rupee, the worst performer in 2011, said
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., the most-accurate forecaster for
the region in the past six quarters.  The rupee will advance 5.1 percent to 50.5 per dollar by
year-end followed by a 3.9 percent rally to 8,730 by  Indonesia ’s
rupiah, according to Singapore’s second-largest bank.  Barclays
Capital , the second-best forecaster as measured by Bloomberg
News, expects  South Korea ’s won to outpace the other currencies,
climbing 12 percent to 1,025.  “We’ll probably see more signs of a nascent recovery
perhaps sometime into the second quarter,” said Emmanuel Ng, a
strategist at OCBC in Singapore. “You should see more
structural foundation for capital inflows into Asia.”  A recovering U.S. economy and a shift in policy focus in
China to bolster growth will support Asian currencies this year
even as  Europe  struggles with its debt crisis, according to
Barclays Capital, which predicts  Malaysia ’s ringgit, the  Thai
baht , the rupee and the  Taiwan dollar  will rise more than 10
percent in 2012.  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the third-best forecaster, is
less optimistic, expecting moves to range from a 4 percent gain
in the rupee to a 0.4 percent decline in the rupiah.  OCBC ranked as the top forecaster with an average margin of
error of 2.81 percent, compared with 3.01 percent for Barclays
and 3.34 percent for ING.  U.S. Recovery  The Bloomberg- JPMorgan (JPM)  Asia Dollar  Index (ADXY)  dropped 1.1
percent in 2011, halting two years of gains. The gauge lost 3.1
percent in the second half as the debt crisis prompted investors
to pull funds from emerging-market assets. The rupee slumped 16
percent last year, followed by a 5 percent decline in the baht,
and 3.5 percent losses for the won and the ringgit, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. This year, India’s currency has
already gained 2.9 percent.  Equity funds focused on  Asia  excluding  Japan  had
redemptions of $24 billion in 2011 after attracting $22 billion
the previous year, according to fund researcher EPFR Global. So
far this year, overseas investors have pumped $2.4 billion into
Taiwanese, South Korean and Indian shares, exchange data show.
Inflows into dedicated Emerging Asia Bond Funds slowed to $2.8
billion in 2011 from $6.84 billion in 2010, EPFR said.  U.S. data released this year showed December payroll growth
beat forecasts, the  unemployment rate  dropped to the lowest
level in almost three years and manufacturing rebounded. In
China, a slowdown in inflation to a 15-month low of 4.1 percent
in December has allowed policy makers to ease banks’ reserve
requirements to spur economic expansion.  ‘Soft Landing’  Developing economies in Asia will expand 8 percent in 2012,
compared with projections for 1.9 percent growth in advanced
economies, according to  International Monetary Fund  estimates
released in September. The region’s emerging countries will
continue to show “robust” growth in 2012, Asian Development
Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda said today.  China ’s economic
growth will moderate to less than 9 percent, while Indian
expansion of about 7 percent to 8 percent last year “will
basically continue,” he said.  Asia “is on course for a soft landing,” said Nick Verdi,
a Singapore-based strategist at Barclays Capital, part of the
U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets. “Once some of the risk
factors particularly pertaining to Europe begin to abate,
central banks in the region will be more comfortable in letting
their currencies appreciate.”  India’s rupee was among the hardest hit last year as its
current-account deficit widened due to rising oil prices. The
shortfall in the broadest measure of trade was $16.89 billion
third quarter, compared with $16.90 billion a year earlier.
Crude-oil prices climbed 8.2 percent in 2011.  Rupee ‘Dark Horse’  The rupee will be a “dark horse” this year as inflows
into its equity market may help improve its current account,
OCBC’s Ng said. Funds dedicated to Indian equities had
withdrawals of $4.1 billion in 2011 after taking in $1.3 billion
the year before, EPFR data show.  The won will appreciate as “export growth is holding up
very well,” Barclays’ Verdi said. OCBC and ING were less
optimistic, forecasting gains of 3.4 percent and 0.2 percent.
South Korean overseas  sales  rose 12.5 percent last month from a
year earlier, official data show, compared with a median
estimate of 6.3 percent in a Bloomberg survey.  The ringgit will be Asia’s second-best performer as the
government’s asset divestment program lures investors, Verdi
said. Barclays expects the currency to strengthen 12 percent,
compared with ING’s 3.6 percent and OCBC’s 2.7 percent.  “The privatization story is very much in place,” Verdi
said. “It’s a macro story that we like.”  Taiwan  Dollar  A rising yen will give Taiwan’s central bank more room to
let its currency rise, according to  Tim Condon , head of Asian
research at ING in  Singapore . A stronger Taiwanese dollar makes
the prices of products of the island’s electronics companies
more expensive than those of Japanese rivals.  ING, the biggest Dutch financial services company, expects
the currency to strengthen 3.6 percent in 2012, while Barclays
forecasts a gain of 10 percent. OCBC sees a 1.6 percent advance.  The rupiah, which slipped 0.6 percent last year, will
rebound as Indonesia’s economy is robust and  inflation  under
control, OCBC’s Ng said. Its bonds, which have the highest
yields in major Asian markets after India, are attractive to
overseas investors, Ng said.  The baht will rise as policy makers won’t ease borrowing
costs further as spending to repair flood damage and spur growth
will leave the central bank focused on inflation, Condon said in
an interview on Jan. 11. ING estimates the baht will gain 3.5
percent this year, compared with Barclays’ 11 percent forecast
and OCBC’s 2.1 percent.  Currency forecasters were ranked according to the accuracy
of their estimates in each of the last six quarters. To test
long-term accuracy, Bloomberg News added one annual projection.
Only firms with at least four estimates for a particular
 currency pair  were ranked, and only the 22 companies that
qualified in at least six of 10 pairs were included in the
ranking of best overall forecasters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at   yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  