-- Sarkozy Dealt Blow 100 Days Before Election With French Loss of AAA Rating
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-01-16T14:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/sarkozy-dealt-blow-100-days-before-election-with-french-loss-of-aaa-rating.html
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has fewer
than 100 days before French elections to overcome the blow dealt
by Standard & Poor’s decision to strip the country of its AAA
 credit rating  for the first time.  After saying in October that he would do everything
possible to retain the top credit rating that one of his
advisers called a “national treasure,” the cut to AA+ may hurt
Sarkozy’s reputation for economic management and diminish his
stature in discussions to end the European debt crisis, said
political analysts such as Emmanuel Riviere, a pollster at TNS
Sofres in Paris.  “Sarkozy has built his whole strategy on being the most
credible candidate on the economy, on being the surest leader in
a crisis,” Riviere said. “That line is getting harder and
harder to hold. It’s getting harder to say that he’s an equal in
the Franco-German couple, that he’s a power at European
summits.”  Trailing Socialist challenger  Francois Hollande  in the
polls, Sarkozy called on French voters yesterday to back his
“economic reforms” in his first comments since the downgrade,
saying “the crisis can be overcome on condition that we have
the collective will to do so.” Although Hollande stepped up
attacks on the president, he too may have to water down campaign
promises in response to the rating change.  Muted Reaction  Warned by S&P of a possible French downgrade on Dec. 5, the
action on Jan. 13, failed to spark a selloff in French bonds.
The yield on French 10-year debt fell 4.2 basis points to 3.01
percent. In the first test of S&P’s impact,  France  sold 8.59
billion euros ($10.9 billion) in bills today, with yields
falling on all maturities of paper sold.  Investors now demand a  premium  of about 127 basis points to
hold 10-year French bonds instead of benchmark German bunds.
That’s down from one week ago, although its three times the
spread of one year ago.  History suggests reaction may be limited. Ten-year yields
for the nine sovereign borrowers that lost their AAA ratings
between 1998 and the U.S.’s downgrade in August rose an average
of two basis points in the following week, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  Sarkozy’s government tried to play down the importance of
the downgrade or deflected blame by pointing to decades of state
excesses.  “It’s not a catastrophe,” Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said. “It’s like a pupil who had 20 out of 20 for a very
long time and now has a 19. It’s still an excellent grade.”  Not ‘Insurmountable’  France, which hasn’t had a  budget surplus  since 1974, has
been over-extended for decades, Trade Minister Pierre Lellouche
said on Europe 1 radio.  “We’re paying the price for 30 years of carelessness, of
redistributing money we didn’t have,” he said.  Sarkozy, 56, had sought in recent weeks to prepare voters
for a setback, saying the loss of the top credit rating wouldn’t
be “insurmountable.”  He said he would focus on growth rather than worry about
rating companies. France, according to forecasts by national
statistics office Insee, has already entered a recession.  S&P, which first evaluated French sovereign debt in June
1975, giving it a AAA, attributed its downgrade of the nation
and eight other euro-area countries to “insufficient” measures
by policy makers to address the systemic risks to the region.  Downgraded President  “It was a black day for Sarkozy,” said  Bruno Cautres , an
analyst at Cevipof, a political research center in Paris. “He
has lost the AAA he had pledged to defend. Sarkozy is weakened.
His voice will carry less weight when he tells other nations to
make efforts or to follow him.”  S&P’s action have made Sarkozy, who attempted to protect
France’s creditworthiness by announcing tax increases and
spending cuts in August and November, more vulnerable to
opposition attacks on his economic policies.  “The downgrade creates a sentiment of humiliation,” said
Jean-Marc Ayrault, who heads the opposition Socialist Party
group in France’s National Assembly. “Sarkozy is now the
president that downgraded France.”  Sarkozy has the backing of 23.5 percent of voters, just
ahead the 21.5 percent for anti-euro candidate Marine Le Pen,
leader of the nationalist National Front, according to an  Ifop
poll  for Paris Match magazine published last week. Socialist
Party candidate Hollande leads with 27 percent.  Ifop surveyed 942 voters online between Jan. 10 and 13. The
margin of error is about 2.8 percentage points.  Le Pen  Speaking from the French territory of  Guadeloupe , where
he’s campaigning, Hollande said, “It’s not France that has been
downgraded, it’s a policy, it’s a strategy, it’s a team, a
government, a president.”  French voters go to the polls on April 22 and then again on
May 6 to cast their ballots in a runoff between the two leading
candidates from the first round.  Analysts agree that the downgrade poses problems for
Hollande too.  “For Hollande, the question is whether he’ll be able to
stick to the Socialist program as it is set out,” TNS’s Riviere
said. “It reduces his room for maneuver.”  The real beneficiary is likely to be Marine Le Pen and
other candidates who peddle anti-European, anti-free market
views, such as former Socialist Jean-Luc Melenchon. Le Pen could
even surpass Sarkozy in support, said Cautres.  ‘L’economie, C’est Moi’  “The economic pessimism is serving mainly one candidate:
Marine Le Pen,” he said. Le Pen, 43, is the only major
candidate who wants to pull France out of the euro.  The downgrade “tears apart all those who have defended and
imposed the single currency,” she said. “This is the first
step in the spiral of the euro-zone explosion.”  Jean-Marie Le Pen, Marine’s father, made it to the second
round in the 2002 election, knocking out the Socialist Party
candidate and paving the way for  Jacques Chirac ’s landslide
victory weeks later. Marine Le Pen was the only one of the top
three candidates to gain in an LH2 poll published yesterday.  Support for her rose 3.5 points to 17 percent, while
backing for Sarkozy slipped 2.5 points to 23.5 percent and slid
1.5 points for Hollande to 30 percent.  “Sarkozy made a tactical error by turning the AAA into a
political argument to justify the pension reform, the budget
cuts, to attack the Socialists,” said  Laurent Dubois , a
professor at Paris’s Political Studies Institute. “Two years
ago, no one had heard of the AAA or  Standard & Poor’s . If they
know about it now it’s because Sarkozy made it an issue. To
borrow from Louis XIV, for Sarkozy it was ‘L’economie, c’est
moi.’ Now he’s paying the price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at  