-- Saudi Police Hurt in Shooting Incident in Oil-Rich Province
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-01-15T12:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/saudi-police-hurt-in-shooting-incident-in-oil-rich-province-1-.html
Unidentified gunmen opened fire on a
Saudi police patrol late yesterday in the Shiite area of Qatif
as Shiite religious leaders try to reduce tensions in the oil-
producing region of the  Eastern Province .  One policeman was injured then transferred to a hospital,
the Saudi Press Agency reported today, citing a police
statement. The incident is under investigation, the Riyadh-based
 news service  said.  The attack occurred a day after a Shiite man was killed in
clashes with police in the village of Awwamiya in Qatif. That
incident happened when Shiites youth attacked a patrol in the
village, the Interior Ministry said in a statement on Jan. 13.  Predominantly Sunni Muslim Saudi Arabia has accused Shiite-
led  Iran  of interfering in the internal affairs of Arab
countries in the  Persian Gulf , home to three-fifths of the
world’s oil reserves. Iran denies the allegation and accuses
Sunni rulers in  Bahrain  and Saudi Arabia of discriminating
against Shiites.  Shiite youths “have started taking to the streets,”
Tawfiq al-Saif, a prominent Shiite activist from the eastern
region, said by telephone today. “They used to listen to the
older generation. Since October, they have stopped listening to
their elders.” That month, 11 members of the security forces
were attacked and injured during unrest in Awwamiya. Shiite
religious leaders are trying “to calm” the situation, he said.  Regional Tensions  The violence in the Eastern Province comes as tensions
increase between a U.S.-led alliance and Iran. The U.S.
tightened economic sanctions against Iran over its nuclear
program on Dec. 31 and the European Union is also weighing a ban
later this month on purchases of Iranian crude.  Saudi Arabia ’s Shiite minority is concentrated in the
Eastern oil-producing hub, which lies across a 16-mile (26-
kilometer) causeway from Shiite-majority Bahrain, where there
were clashes in February and March as security forces crushed
protests by Shiites demanding democracy and representative
government.  In November, a delegation of Shiite Muslim scholars and
clerics from al-Qatif condemned clashes between Shiites and the
kingdom’s security forces that month,  Al-Yaum newspaper 
reported. The delegation pledged their loyalty to the Al Saud
leadership and expressed regret about the fighting, the
newspaper said, citing Sheikh Mohammed al-Jirani from Qatif.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 