-- Hulu Plans to Raise Money as It Expands Into Original Shows
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-01-15T23:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/hulu-plans-to-raise-money-to-fund-expansion-into-original-shows.html
Hulu LLC, the online TV service
owned by ABC, NBC and Fox, is ratcheting up competition with
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  with plans to raise money as it expands into
original programs.  Hulu will release “Battleground,” its first scripted
show, on Feb. 14 and is weighing options to raise cash this
year, Andy Forssell, senior vice president of content at the
Los Angeles-based company, said in an interview.  “We have a very healthy business,” Forssell said. “When
you have a healthy business, capital is not a problem. There are
plenty of people who want to help.”  Hulu’s owners canceled a sale last year and put off plans
for an earlier IPO. Exclusive programs will help the service
compete with Netflix, which spends $2 billion a year on TV shows
and movies, according to Bloomberg Industries research. Original
programs account for about 5 percent of the content budget,
 Steve Swasey , a Netflix spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Hulu also ordered 10 new episodes of Morgan Spurlock’s “A
Day in the Life,” a documentary series that returns in March,
and a six-part documentary from Richard Linklater, director of
“The School of Rock” and “Before Sunset,” called “Up to
Speed” that starts later this year, according to a statement
today.  Forssell presented Hulu’s programming lineup to the semi-
annual Television Critics Association gathering for the first
time today in  Pasadena ,  California .  The productions will be available to both free users and
subscribers, Forssell said. Hulu Plus customers, who pay $7.99 a
month, can watch shows in high-definition and access programs on
mobile devices and TVs connected to video-game consoles.
Nonpaying viewers can only watch on computers.  ‘Great Shows’  “We want to make great shows and get them out to the
widest audience,” Forssell said. “We considered giving earlier
access to Plus users and other benefits, but right now the aim
is to get them out to as many folks as possible.”  Last year,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox division, one of Hulu’s owners,
began restricting when new TV episodes become available to the
service’s nonpaying viewers. Hulu Plus subscribers get access a
day after broadcast.  Hulu was put up for sale in June and the auction was called
off in October. The service never went forward with
a planned IPO in 2010 that envisioned a $2 billion valuation for
the company.  The service will spend $500 million on TV shows and films
in 2012,  Jason Kilar , chief executive officer, wrote Jan. 12 on
the company’s  website . That’s up from $300 million the company
projected a year ago, according to an April 2011 post.  ‘Misfits,’ ‘Battleground’  The site, with more than 1.5 million subscribers, is
signing up twice as many customers to its pay service as a year
ago, Kilar wrote. He said 2011 revenue totaled $420 million.  Hulu’s owners include  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC,  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and Providence Equity Partners Inc., as well as Fox.  Hulu acquired rights to productions from the U.K. in June,
including “Misfits.” Those shows often rank among the most-
watched programs on the service and have helped recruit paying
subscribers, Forssell said.  “Battleground,” from the director of  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s July
2012 release “The Amazing Spider-Man,” is a mock-documentary
about a third-place political candidate and his staff trying to
overcome rivals in  Wisconsin .  Even if Hulu doesn’t raise money, the site will continue to
add exclusive programming, such as the shows planned for the
first half of the year, Forssell said.  “We generate more buying power than most people assume,”
Forssell said. “We’re not just a subscription model. We’re not
just an ad-based service. We’re both.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  