-- Upgrades Beating Downgrades by Narrowest Margin Since Crisis: India Credit
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2012-01-16T04:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-15/upgrades-beating-downgrades-by-narrowest-margin-since-crisis-india-credit.html
Indian companies’ ability to repay
debt is deteriorating the most since the financial crisis that
tapered off in 2009 as the economy slows and the highest
borrowing costs in three years erode profits.  Crisil Ltd. (CRISIL) , the Indian unit of  Standard & Poor’s , raised
credit ratings on 13 companies for every 10 that it downgraded
last quarter, the smallest number of upgrades to downgrades
since the last three months of 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Ratings for five companies were lowered this
month, while one was raised.  Average bond risk for Indian borrowers more than doubled in
the past year as Asia’s third-largest economy expanded at the
slowest pace since 2009 and the central bank lifted interest
rates seven times to slow inflation. Five-year bond  yields  for
AAA-rated companies have jumped 43 basis points since October to
103 basis points above government bond rates, while a similar
spread in  China (GCNY5YR)  shrank 20 basis points to 157.  “We have scaled back corporate debt investments because of
growing concerns over asset quality and the volatile market
conditions,” D.K. Mehrotra, Mumbai-based chairman of Life
Insurance Corp. of  India , the nation’s biggest fund manager,
said in an interview on Jan. 12. “Given the weak domestic and
global economic conditions, attractive investment opportunities
are going to be difficult to come by.”  Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said on Jan. 8 that
India’s  gross domestic product  will rise about 7 percent in the
year ending March 31, less than the 7.5 percent rate of
expansion he predicted in December. Growth in the $1.7 trillion
economy slowed to 6.9 percent in the three months ended Sept.
30, according to the most recent government data.  ‘Further Hurt’  Indian companies’ ability to meet interest payments has
fallen to a five-year low because of shrinking earnings, rising
borrowing costs and losses in the rupee, Mumbai-based Crisil
said in a report published this month.  The  Reserve Bank  of India boosted the  repurchase rate  by a
record 225 basis points, or 2.25 percentage points, in 2011 to
8.5 percent, the highest level since 2008. The rupee slid 12
percent in the past 12 months versus the dollar in Asia’s worst
currency performance. It fell 0.5 percent to 51.765 per dollar
in Mumbai today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Companies with substantial debt on their balance sheets
will be further hurt by rising interest costs and marked-to-
market losses on foreign debt and derivatives due to the
depreciation of the rupee,” said Prasad Koparkar, Mumbai-based
head of industry research at Crisil.  DLF Downgraded  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , INDIA’s largest property developer, was
downgraded by Crisil on Dec. 27 after the company’s liabilities
minus cash climbed to an all-time high of 242.7 billion rupees
in the three months ended Sept. 30, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Nagpur, India-based  Bajaj Steel Industries Ltd. (BJST)  and
textile manufacturer  Himatsingka Seide Ltd. (HSS)  had their rankings
lowered last quarter.  Debt downgrades by Mumbai-based CARE Ratings Ltd. jumped to
169 during the nine months through December, from 84 a year
earlier, D.R. Dogra, Managing Director at CARE said in a Jan. 10
e-mail.  Demand for corporate bonds is falling as the credit quality
of companies worsens and analysts cut earnings forecasts.  State-owned Life Insurance Corp. bought 300 billion rupees
($5.8 billion) in company debt in the eight months through
November, compared with 400 billion rupees invested a year
earlier, according to chairman Mehrotra. Bond sales by Indian
companies shrank 9 percent to 1.76 trillion rupees in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Whirlpool of Pessimism’  “Profitability will be stretched across industries because
of high input and borrowing costs,” Vinita Singhania, managing
director at New Delhi-based JK Lakshmi Cement Ltd., said in an
interview on Jan. 11. “We expect the situation to persist this
year and the outcome of these difficulties will be reflected in
the performances of companies.”  Profits at the 30 firms that make up the benchmark BSE
India Sensitive Index will fall 8.7 percent to 1,150 rupees a
share in the 12 months through March, the biggest drop in three
years, according to analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “India today finds itself in the middle of a whirlpool of
pessimism,” analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc., including Mumbai-
based Prabhat Avasthi, wrote in a research note dated Jan. 12.
“Growth would continue to face headwinds. The lagged effects of
past tightening are likely to continue to play out in the first
half of 2012. The trajectory for earnings through the year would
likely slow.”  Bond Risk  Yields on benchmark  10-year   government bonds  have climbed
51 basis points in the past two years as the Reserve Bank
boosted  interest rates . The  extra yield  demanded by investors to
hold the notes over similar-dated U.S. Treasuries widened 146
basis points in the period to 635. The yield on the 8.79 percent
note due November 2021 fell five basis points to 8.15 percent
today, according to the central bank’s trading system.  The average cost of credit-default swaps insuring against
debt defaults by seven Indian issuers climbed 237 basis points
in the past year to 445 basis points, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in privately negotiated markets. The swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a nation or company fail to adhere to
its debt agreements.  Bad Loans  India’s sovereign notes earned 7.6 percent in the past 12
months, while Indonesian securities returned 25 percent in the
biggest gain among  Asia ’s 10 biggest government debt markets
outside  Japan , according to HSBC Holdings Plc data.  The increasing risk of defaults by companies means bad
loans in the nation’s banking system may more than double,
according to the central bank.  Non-performing credits may climb to 5.8 percent of total
advances in two years from 2.8 percent in September, in the
worst-case scenario, the  Reserve Bank of India  said in a report
released on Dec. 22. Bad debts could be as much as 3.5 percent
of loans by March 2013 using a “baseline macroeconomic
scenario” and between 4.7 percent and 5.8 percent under a
“severe macroeconomic stress scenario,” according to the
report.  “Steel and textiles are additions to the list of sectors
that are under stress in the last quarter because of borrowing
costs and tough financial market conditions,” M.D. Mallya,
Mumbai-based chairman and managing director at state-owned  Bank
of Baroda , said in an interview on Jan. 9. “Corporate
performances weakened in the last quarter. The situation may
continue this quarter because funding costs aren’t easing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  