-- 
‘Today’ Promotes Curry to Hot Seat as Surging ABC Closes Gap

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-08-24T15:37:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/-today-promotes-curry-to-hot-seat-as-resurgent-abc-narrows-gap.html
NBC’s “Today” show, making its
biggest talent change since  Katie Couric  left in 2006, heads
into the new television season with its 15-year dominance of
morning TV challenged by a resurgent ABC.  Ann Curry, 54, joined Matt Lauer as “Today” co-host in
June, moving from news reader to replace Meredith Vieira, who
held the job since Couric left. While both “Today” and ABC’s
“Good Morning America” attract more viewers than a year ago,
NBC’s lead has shrunk to a four-year-low, Nielsen Co. data show.  “That’s a little bit of a P-R blackeye,” said  Brad Adgate , head of research for  Horizon Media , a New York-based
advertising company. He predicts NBC will promote “Today” and
Curry more heavily with the new season, when viewers return from
summer vacations. “She didn’t start at an optimal time.”  The shows are significant profit contributors for both
networks because their audience of 25-to-54-year-olds attracts
ads from automakers, drugmakers and foodmakers. according to
Shari Anne Brill, an advertising consultant. ABC and NBC are
third and fourth in prime-time ratings, respectively, putting
more of the profit burden on the rest of their schedules.  “Neither of them is costly to produce,” Adgate said.  Since Curry became co-host, “Today” is averaging 5.03
million viewers daily, up 6.7 percent from a year earlier,
according to Nielsen data through Aug. 14. “Good Morning
America” is averaging 4.46 million, up 15 percent, according to
ABC, which is owned by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  That puts NBC’s year-to-
date lead at its smallest in four years.  News Audience  NBC, part of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , has done a better job
protecting its lead in the 25-to-54-year-old demographic group
targeted by news advertisers. “Good Morning America” is up 8.2
percent in that group and “Today” is up 7.1 percent. With a
larger audience base, NBC has widened its advantage by 22,000
viewers since June.  “Ann wasn’t a big change in co-anchor chair,” said  Harry
Keeshan , chief investment officer at  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC) ’s PHD
USA media planning and buying unit in  New York . “It wasn’t as
big of a switch as Katie Couric leaving and Meredith Vieira
coming in.” As news anchor since 1997, “Curry was already
known to the ‘Today’ show viewer,” he said.  The gains by “Good Morning America” have been driven by
its guests, including President  Barack Obama , former Defense
Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld  and  Donald Trump , according to
Keeshan, whose clients include Safeway Inc. and  HBO .  On July 11, the show outdrew “Today” by airing parts of
Diane Sawyer’s interview with Jaycee Dugard, the Northern
California woman who was kidnapped as a child and held for 18
years as a sex slave.  “It’s all about the ‘gets,’ and who has the best musical
guests,” Brill said.  Revamped Show  ABC’s George Stephanopoulos and Robin Roberts, hosts of
“Good Morning America,” are connecting with audiences after
the show’s long-tenured hosts, Charles Gibson and Sawyer, left
in 2006 and 2009, according to James Goldston, who took over as
executive producer five months ago.  Goldston said “Good Morning America” has revamped its
cooking segments and other standing features to make them less
predictable and more distinctive. The program has also
introduced a daily entertainment segment  “We’ve got a show that is working very well,” Goldston
said. “We’re heading into the fall and the future with more
confidence.”  Ad Rates  NBC, with a half-million more viewers in total and a
similar advantage in the age demographic, commands higher ad
rates. A 30-second “Today” spot was priced at an average of
$67,900 in May compared with $41,400 for ABC, according to
Nielsen data supplied by Adgate.  “Today” has seen its lead dwindle with past talent
changes, only to recover later. The show will enjoy a unique
promotional opportunity next July when NBC airs the Olympics
from  London , according to Adgate.  “The only number that matters is the demo,” Jim Bell, the
executive producer of “Today,” said in an interview. “Our
advantage over our competitors since Ann joined has only grown.
I’m not sure what further evidence we’d need. That’s a
resounding endorsement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  