-- 
Accor Says Summer Performance Is ‘Good’

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-08-24T07:46:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/accor-says-summer-performance-is-good-as-room-prices-rise.html
Accor SA (AC) , Europe’s largest hotel
company, said summer business has been “good” as room prices
increase, while first-half earnings matched analysts’ estimates.  Earnings before interest and taxes rose to 199 million
euros ($287 million) from 156 million euros a year earlier, the
Evry, France-based owner of the Sofitel brand said in a
 statement  today. That met the average of eight analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  European and Asian hoteliers posted the strongest gains in
July in revenue per room, a measure of pricing and occupancy
known as revpar, analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said in
a report yesterday, citing data from industry research company
STR. Accor, which gets most of its sales from  Europe , reported
accelerating revpar at its economy brands in the region and in
the U.S. last month compared with the first half.  The hotel operator’s comments should “clearly reassure”
investors after the stock’s decline this year, analysts at Oddo
& Cie. with a “neutral” recommendation on Accor said today in
an unsigned report to clients. At the same time, “we continue
to think that a slowdown is inevitable for Accor and the
sector.”  Accor rose as much as 5.2 percent to 24.31 euros and was up
1.5 percent as of 9:40 a.m. in Paris trading. That pared the
stock’s drop this year to 30 percent. Hotel operators’ shares
have fallen amid investors’ concern that corporate customers
will cut travel budgets while consumers limit spending on
holidays in an economic slowdown.  Room-Opening Plans  A business recovery and efforts to contain costs helped
earnings growth, Accor said. The French company said it’s
sticking to plans to open 30,000 rooms this year, after adding
13,700 in the first half. Net income in the first six months of
the year totaled 41 million euros compared with a 15 million-
euro loss a year earlier.  Revenue per room at hotels owned at least a year increased
by 7.7 percent in July at Accor’s economy outlets in Europe
compared with a 5 percent gain in the first half, while the
measure at its U.S. economy hotels rose 4 percent that month
compared with 3.1 percent in the six-month period. Revpar growth
at the upscale and midscale chains slowed to 7.5 percent in July
from 7.7 percent in the first half.  “Second-half trends are supported by the summer season’s
good performance,” Accor said in the statement. “The group has
noted no measurable sign of slowdown in the cycle recovery at
this stage.”  The company, which didn’t give forecasts for full-year
earnings, will hold an investor day on Sept. 13 in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  