-- 
Ageas Posts Biggest Gain Since May 2010 on Buyback Plan

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-08-24T16:34:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/ageas-posts-biggest-gain-since-may-2010-after-announcing-buyback.html
Ageas (AGS) , the insurer formerly known as
Fortis, posted the biggest gain in 15 months in Brussels trading
after announcing plans to buy back as much as 250 million euros
($360 million) of stock.  Ageas rose 23 cents, or 21 percent, to 1.325 euros, the
biggest gain since May 10, 2010. The company had a first-half
net loss of 58.8 million euros, less than the 115.3 million-euro
average loss estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Before today, the shares had dropped 44 percent since the
company reported a decline in solvency levels at the end of the
first quarter caused by rising bond yields. Solvency recovered
to 207 percent at the end of June from 201 percent at the end of
March.  “Ageas made strong statements on solvency and to underline
this announced a share buyback program,”  Albert Ploegh , an
Amsterdam-based analyst at ING Groep NV who has a buy rating on
the stock, said in a note today. Solvency was stronger than
Ploegh’s estimate of 201 percent.  Ageas booked writedowns of 150 million euros on Greek bond
holdings and 130 million euros related to “legacy issues,” the
company, based in Brussels and the Dutch city of Utrecht, said
in a statement today. Profit from insurance operations,
excluding the Greek bond charge, climbed 44 percent to 261
million euros.  ‘Opportune Time’  “Given our strong liquidity position, the robust solvency
of our insurance operations and the undervaluation of our
shares, we firmly believe this is an opportune time to implement
a share buy-back while still maintaining flexibility to invest
in the growth of our insurance business,” Chief Executive
Officer Bart De Smet said in a statement.  Ageas said in a separate statement that deputy CEO Bruno Colmant, responsible for finance and legal, will step down. He
will continue to advise the company on legacy issues for two
years from October. Chief Financial Officer Patrick Depovere
will also leave in April, to be replaced by Christophe Boizard.  Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said on Aug. 16
that his country’s banks and insurers signed on to a Greek
rescue program that aims to combine private-sector bond
exchanges with new bailout money. Belgian financial firms have
about 4.5 billion euros in Greek  government bonds  over the
period covered by the rescue program.  Unrealized Gains  At the end of June, Ageas had 687 million euros in
unrealized gains after positive developments in real-estate
values and its fixed-income holdings.  Ageas reduced its net exposure to southern European
sovereign debt to 4.3 billion euros as of Aug. 19 from 6 billion
euros at the end of 2010. It sold 1.2 billion euros in mostly
Italian and Spanish sovereign bonds since the end of June.  Following the impairment on Greek debt, the insurer said it
expects the full-year “financial performance” of its insurance
operations to be in line with last year. In May, it said it
expected an improved performance “barring significant events
outside of our control.” Inflows are seen close to 2010 levels,
Ageas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  