-- 
Agfa Shares Climb as Lower Expenses Counter Silver’s Surge

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-08-24T08:34:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/agfa-shares-climb-as-lower-expenses-counter-silver-s-surge-1-.html
Agfa-Gevaert NV (AGFB) ,  Europe ’s largest
maker of health-care imaging systems, rose the most in a year in
Brussels after reporting a surprise profit because of cuts in
administrative expenses to counter soaring raw-material costs.  Agfa gained as much as 14 percent, the biggest advance in
intraday trading since August 2010, and traded 22 cents higher
at 2.10 euros by 10:25 a.m. local time. Second-quarter net
income fell 95 percent to 2 million euros ($3 million), the
Mortsel, Belgium-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts had projected a loss of 11.1 million euros, the average
of three estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed.  The average spot price of silver, a key material in imaging
products such as film and analogue printing plates, climbed to
$38.50 an ounce in the quarter and the price of the precious
metal peaked at $49.79 an ounce in April. Agfa said today that
it passed on about half of that cost inflation to its graphic
customers and about a quarter in the health-care division,
relying on lower administrative expenses to report a profit as
some clients canceled orders for printing plates amid price
increases.  This “again shows that Agfa is better able to cope with
high silver prices than expected, thanks to cost efficiencies
and a shift in the product mix,”  Nico Melsens , an analyst at
KBC Securities NV in Brussels, wrote in a note. “We probably
won’t make major changes to our 2011 forecasts as the
outperformance is offset by further increases in silver
prices.”  Agfa Chief Executive Officer Christian Reinaudo declined to
give a forecast for the year, citing an “uncertain” economic
environment and “other elements beyond our control,” saying
only that the company will continue to take all measures needed
to cope with the challenges it is facing.  Agfa also reported that net debt climbed to 313 million
euros at the end of June after halting the sale of receivables.
It had fallen to as low as 161 million euros six months earlier.
Sales growth excluding currency effects slowed to 6.2 percent
from 8.8 percent in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  