-- 
U.K. Stocks Drop for First Time in Four Days; Admiral, Premier Oil Retreat

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-08-25T16:13:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/aggreko-diageo-kazakhmys-shell-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks fell for the first time
in four days, tracking falls across Europe and the U.S., amid
speculation that European regulators may extend restrictions on
short selling.  Admiral Group Plc (ADM) , the U.K. car insurer that owns the
confused.com website, sank 5.5 percent as Redburn Partners LLP
and Oriel Securities Ltd. downgraded the shares following
yesterday’s earnings.  Premier Oil Plc (PMO)  tumbled 9.7 percent as the
London-based oil explorer said it’s concerned whether Sevan
Marine ASA can deliver a unit to start pumping oil at the U.K.
Huntington field in 2012.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  retreated 74.75, or 1.4 percent, to
5,131.1 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, having swung between
gains and losses at least 12 times. Stocks briefly recouped
losses after  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. agreed to
invest $5 billion in Bank of America Corp. The FTSE All-Share
Index decreased 1.3 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
slid 0.8 percent.  Speculation about  Germany ’s finances or that the nation
will impose a short-selling ban may have contributed to a fall
in equities today, said Espen Furnes, a  fund manager  at
Storebrand Asset Management, which oversees $74 billion. German
regulator BaFin has “all the regulation in place” regarding
short selling in equities, press officer Dominika Kula said, in
response to a question on whether the agency may ban the
practice. CNBC reported that  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings all affirmed their ratings
on Germany.  Far Fetched  “Rumors about a downgrade of Germany’s debt rating are far
fetched, but a telling tale of the amount of fear in the markets
right now,” said Oslo-based Furnes.  The FTSE 100 had lost 15 percent from the end of June
through the start of this week, wiping more than $300 billion
from the value of U.K. shares, amid concern that  Europe ’s credit
crisis and slowing U.S. economic growth may derail the global
recovery. The gauge has still climbed 1.8 percent so far this
week amid speculation that the slump isn’t commensurate with the
outlook for company profits and as investors continued to weigh
whether Federal Reserve policy makers meeting tomorrow will take
action to help the economy.  The FTSE 100 is trading at 9.1 times the estimated earnings
of its companies, below the 11.5 average valuation of the past
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed policy makers meet this weekend in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming . At last year’s conference, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
signaled a second round of asset purchases, known as QE2, that
buoyed asset markets. The FTSE 100 surged 17 percent from Aug.
27, 2010, to this year’s peak on Feb. 8 after Bernanke hinted at
the $600 billion Treasury program.  Admiral slumped 5.5 percent to 1,279 pence, extending
yesterday’s 12 percent slide. Analysts at brokerages including
Redburn and Oriel downgraded the shares following yesterday’s
earning report that showed first-half pretax profit missed
analyst estimates.  Premier Oil lost 9.7 percent to 316 pence. Premier is
relying on Huntington to reach output of 75,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day next year. Its projects in  Vietnam  and
 Indonesia  due to start within weeks will help to raise
production to about 60,000 barrels a day by the end of the year.  Diageo Plc (DGE)  gained 4.7 percent to 1,170 pence. The maker of
Johnnie Walker scotch and Smirnoff vodka said so-called organic
operating profit, excluding some items and the effects of
acquisitions and currency swings, climbed 5 percent in the year
through June.  This is “a robust set of results,” Phil Carroll, an
analyst at Shore Capital Group Ltd. in Liverpool, wrote in a
report. “Medium-term guidance looks to be setting targets that
are tough but achievable and also makes Diageo look attractive
as an investment proposition if achieved.” He maintained his
“buy” recommendation on the shares.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  rallied 5.2 percent to 997 pence as
Kazakhstan’s biggest copper miner said it will buy back up to
$250 million of its ordinary shares listed on the  London  Stock
Exchange. First-half profit fell to $374 million from $574
million a year earlier, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  