-- 
AIG Sought Change in Tone in Feinberg Talks, Document Shows

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-08-24T19:27:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/aig-sought-changes-in-tone-in-feinberg-meeting-over-pay-document-shows.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
sought to assuage regulators as the insurer met with paymaster
 Kenneth Feinberg  after being criticized for awarding bonuses
amid its rescue, according to records released this week.  AIG was seeking “changes in tone and the content of the
rhetoric,” the insurer said in a document obtained by Judicial
Watch through a Freedom of Information Act request. “The people
who are here are trying to right historically successful
businesses and fix the problems.” AIG’s so-called  talking
points  were prepared for a Nov. 3, 2009, meeting with Feinberg.  AIG was working to quash furor over retention payments to
staff at its derivatives unit and win flexibility to reward its
top employees a year after it was bailed out. President  Barack Obama  called the $165 million payment to executives at the
insurer’s Financial Products unit in March 2009 an “outrage”
and asked Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to pursue
blocking the bonuses or recouping the money.  “It was very tense” after the government bailed out
private companies in 2008,  Jeanne Branthover , a managing
director at Boyden Global Executive Search Ltd. in  New York ,
said in an interview. Over time “we saw major changes take
place and the government started backing off.”  The Financial Products unit brought AIG to the brink of
collapse with bets on subprime mortgages. AIG received a bailout
that swelled to $182.3 billion after regulators said letting the
company fail would damage the  U.S. economy .  Redacted Information  About three-quarters of the document obtained by Judicial
Watch was redacted. The Treasury had previously released  44
pages  in connection with the group’s request. Records included
e-mails between AIG and the government detailing arrangements
for the Nov. 3 meeting. Judicial Watch, a group that advocates
for government transparency, obtained the talking points
separately after a court ordered the Treasury to release it.  The Obama administration “didn’t even want to tell us who
at AIG they were talking to about this,” said Judicial Watch
President Tom Fitton, in an interview. “The taxpayer has no way
of getting an account of what went on.”  The Treasury had argued in the lawsuit that some documents
should be redacted or withheld because they contained
information that might allow AIG’s competitors to hire away its
employees. U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell agreed and allowed
the Treasury to keep some records confidential.  Poaching Employees  “A detailed picture of AIG’s compensation structure
would” make poaching easier, Howell wrote in an Aug. 16
opinion. The Treasury “has produced all reasonably segregable
responsive portions of all documents at issue.”  Representatives from the Treasury, Federal Reserve Bank of
New York and AIG’s board of directors were also scheduled to
attend the meeting, according to the talking points. The
document includes introductory remarks from then-AIG Chairman
 Harvey Golub .  Mark Herr, a spokesman for New York-based AIG, declined to
comment or provide an unredacted version of the talking points.
Feinberg, who left the Treasury last year, declined to comment,
as did  Mark Paustenbach , a Treasury spokesman.  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67, told
employees in 2009, that  Andrew Cuomo , then New York’s attorney
general, was wrong for drawing attention to bonus recipients.  “What he did is so unbelievably wrong,” Benmosche said
during the Aug. 11, 2009 remarks, according to a record obtained
by Bloomberg. “He doesn’t deserve to be in government, and he
surely shouldn’t be the attorney general of the state of New
York. What he did is criminal. You don’t create lynch mobs to go
out to people’s homes and do the things he did.” Benmosche
later said he regretted his remarks. Cuomo is now governor.  Repaying Government  Almost four months after the Nov. 3 meeting, Golub said
Feinberg’s attempts to limit compensation may hamper the
insurer’s ability to pay back the government.  “In some cases we are prevented from providing market-
competitive compensation to retain some of our most experienced
and best executives. This hurts the business and makes it harder
to repay the taxpayers,” Golub said in a letter to AIG
shareholders posted on the insurer’s website in February 2010.  AIG repaid the remaining $21 billion it owed to the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York , and the Treasury converted its
preferred stake into 92 percent of AIG common stock in January.
The holding was reduced to 77 percent in a May share sale.  AIG had originally committed $475 million in retention pay
for Financial Products employees. Feinberg won $39 million in
concessions from the workers as of February 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 