-- 
Thailand Raises Benchmark Interest Rate as Yingluck Vows to Boost Incomes

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-08-24T09:09:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/thailand-raises-benchmark-interest-rate-as-yingluck-vows-to-boost-incomes.html
Thailand  raised interest rates for
the seventh meeting as the government’s plans to boost wages and
rice prices heighten inflation risks, even as the central bank
signaled it may be nearing the end of monetary tightening.  The Bank of Thailand increased its benchmark one-day bond
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 3.5
percent, it said in Bangkok today. The move was predicted by 16
out of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, with the rest
expecting no change. The nation has boosted borrowing costs nine
times since the start of July 2010, the longest tightening cycle
since the 23 months ended June 2006.  “We have paddled a long way and we are probably close to
our shore now,” Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan told
a news conference in Bangkok today. “But it also depends on the
tide” on when Thailand will reach the target, he said.  Asia  faces a growing dilemma as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a
faltering U.S. recovery hurt prospects for exports, reducing
scope for further rate increases to damp price pressures. While
Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s spending pledges have
raised inflation expectations, current rates are close to
“normal levels” and risks to the economy have increased,
Paiboon said today.  “They seem to be slightly more dovish amid growing concern
about the global economy,” said Satoshi Ushijima, vice
president of the treasury division in Bangkok at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. “Even for the local economy, there are some
less bullish views, which would mean the BOT could slow down the
pace of rate hikes in the future.”  Currency Falls  The benchmark SET Index of stocks declined 0.7 percent as
of 3:30 p.m. local time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The baht weakened 0.2 percent to 29.90 against the
dollar.  The currency has risen about 3 percent since the July 3
election that brought Yingluck to power, which passed without
protests in a country that has had nine coups since 1946.  Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said this
week he expects “difficulty” in balancing monetary policy as
expansion slows. The central bank still sees the need to
continue adjusting  interest rates  to normal levels to contain
inflation pressure and the country’s real key rate is about
negative 0.35 percent, Paiboon said today.  Five Against Two  “This is a close call,”  Gundy Cahyadi , a Singapore-based
economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., said before the
decision. “Given the increasing risks from the global economy,
it is likely going to be the last move for the year.”  The policy board voted five against two to raise borrowing
costs, the central bank said today.  Yingluck, whose brother Thaksin Shinawatra was ousted as
leader in a 2006 coup, presented her policy strategies in
parliament yesterday, including plans to raise the minimum wage,
boost civil servant salaries and lift rice prices.  Her government will almost double minimum pay in some parts
of the country, pay farmers about 50 percent more for rice, cut
corporate income taxes, reduce  oil prices  and give students free
tablet computers, she said.  The policies will “strongly stimulate” growth once they
take effect about two quarters from now, Thaksin told reporters
in  Tokyo  yesterday. They will have a limited and manageable
impact on inflation, he said.  Bank Independence  Consumer-price growth held above 4 percent for the fourth
straight month in July as food and fuel prices climbed.  Core
inflation  accelerated to 2.59 percent. The Bank of Thailand uses
the core gauge to guide monetary policy and aims to keep it at
less than 3 percent.  The central bank should review its interest-rate policy to
ensure higher rates don’t raise production costs, Deputy Prime
Minister Kittiratt Na Ranong said Aug. 22.  Opposition leader  Abhisit Vejjajiva , who was replaced as
prime minister after the election, said in parliament yesterday
that the central bank should be allowed to work
“independently.” “If we destroy the discipline and
independence in fiscal and monetary policies, inflation will
accelerate,” he said.  Thailand’s economic expansion slowed to 2.6 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, after the March 11 earthquake in
 Japan  disrupted trade. The state planning agency cut its 2011
growth forecast to 3.5 percent to 4 percent, from as much as 4.5
percent earlier.  Japan Earthquake  Moderating expansion in Asia is increasing pressure to
delay further monetary tightening in the region even as price
pressures persist. The economies of Malaysia and  Taiwan  expanded
at the slowest pace since 2009 last quarter from a year earlier.
Singapore shrank an annualized 6.5 percent from the previous
three months.  Companies from Toyota Motor Corp. to  General Motors Co. (GM) 
produce cars in Thailand, and supply disruption from Japan’s
earthquake contributed to a 19.9 percent fall in auto output in
the three months through June from a year earlier.  The Bank of Thailand expects the impact of the disaster to
fade from this quarter, and forecasts a 4.1 percent rise in
gross domestic product in 2011. The effect on Thai exports from
the weakening global outlook may be mitigated by rising regional
trade and diversification to new markets, Paiboon said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  