-- 
Lake Shore Hedge Fund’s Baker Pleads Guilty to Wire Fraud in Chicago Court

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-24T18:08:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/lake-shore-s-philip-j-baker-pleads-guilty-to-wire-fraud-in-chicago-court.html
Philip J. Baker, principal of the
collapsed  Chicago  hedge fund Lake Shore Asset Management Ltd.,
pleaded guilty to one count of wire fraud for his role in an
alleged $292 million global scheme.  Baker, 46, dressed in an orange federal Bureau of Prisons
jumpsuit, entered his plea today before U.S. District Judge John W. Darrah in Chicago.  Indicted in absentia in February 2009 for his role in the
scheme that ensnared about 900 investors, Baker had faced 27
criminal counts including 17 for wire fraud and two for
commodities fraud, as well one count of embezzlement of
commodity pool funds. He pleaded not guilty last year after
being extradited from Hamburg.  “Did you read this before you signed it,” Darrah, holding
the 38-page plea agreement, asked Baker today.  “Yes your honor,” Baker replied. Minutes later, Baker
pleaded guilty to the first  wire-fraud  count in the indictment,
a crime punishable by as long as 20 years in prison.  Baker is also liable for $154 million in restitution, the
judge said. Sentencing is set for Nov. 17.  “The government will recommend the maximum term of 20
years in prison when Baker is sentenced,” Chicago U.S. Attorney
Patrick Fitzgerald said in an e-mailed statement after the plea
was entered. A trial had been scheduled for Sept. 19.  Baker’s lawyer, Kurt Stitcher of Baker & Daniels LLP,
declined to comment after the hearing.  Pools of Investors  Summarizing the charges, Assistant U.S. Attorney Clifford Histed told Darrah that Baker controlled the activities of Lake
Shore Asset Management and several other businesses, some of
which also used “Lake Shore” in their names, through which
they traded commodities for pools of investors.  While those trades lost money, Baker caused false profit
information to be relayed to a Canadian firm that issued
misleading account statements to investors. Those false trading
results were also touted in marketing materials used to recruit
new investors.  Baker misappropriated about $33 million for his own use,
according to Histed.  “That’s it in a nutshell,” Histed told the judge.  “Do you disagree?,” Darrah asked Baker.  “No, your honor,” Baker replied.  CFTC Lawsuit  The Lake Shore scheme ran from about 2002 through September
2007, during which time it lost about $38 million, according to
the indictment. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
sued the firm in 2007. It later won court orders barring Lake
Shore from commodities trading.  Baker, a Canadian citizen, was extradited from  Germany 
after the U.S. agreed to drop criminal contempt and obstruction
of justice charges. He faces deportation as a result of his
plea, Darrah said today.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Baker, 1:09-cr-00175, and the
civil case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Lake
Shore Asset Management Ltd., 1:07-cv-03598, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  