-- 
Allergan’s Botox Cleared by U.S. FDA for Urinary Incontinence; Shares Gain

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-08-24T20:17:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/allergan-s-botox-cleared-by-u-s-fda-for-urinary-incontinence-shares-gain.html
Allergan Inc. won U.S. clearance to
market the wrinkle smoother Botox as a treatment for urinary
incontinence.  The  Food and Drug Administration  approved the drug for
people with overactive bladders who have neurologic conditions
such as multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injuries, the agency
said today in a  statement . The medicine is injected into the
bladder to increase its capacity by relaxing muscles.  Botox, also used to reduce facial wrinkles and treat
neurological disorders, is the Irvine, California-based
company’s top product with $1.4 billion in revenue last year.
Sales of the drug for incontinence in people with MS and spinal
cord injuries may reach $40 million in 2017,  Seamus Fernandez , a
Boston-based analyst at Leerink Swann & Co., said today in a
note to investors.  “This approval of Botox is an important milestone in
Allergan’s commitment to develop and make available novel
treatment options for urologists and their patients,” Scott Whitcup, Allergan’s chief scientific officer and executive vice
president for research and development, said today in a
statement.  Today’s approval may bode well for eventual FDA clearance
of Botox for idiopathic overactive bladder, a more common
condition that may boost the drug’s sales by $210 million in
2017, Fernandez said. He said he expects Allergan to seek FDA
clearance for that use next year, he said.  Botox, a purified form of the poison botulinum that blocks
connections to nerves, won FDA approval in October as a
treatment for chronic migraine headaches.  Allergan gained $2.28, or 3 percent, to $77.90 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
climbed 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  