-- 
Tam, Lan Pare Gains as Chile Court Defers Takeover Decision

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-08-24T20:24:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/tam-lan-gain-on-bets-constitutional-court-to-allow-takeover.html
Brazil ’s  Tam SA (TAMM4)  and Chile’s  Lan
Airlines SA (LAN)  pared gains after Chile’s Constitutional Court said
it will discuss Lan’s takeover of Tam next week. The court had
initially announced the review for today.  Tam, Brazil’s second-biggest airline by market value,
advanced 4.1 percent to 33.15 reais at the close of Sao Paulo
trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time. It earlier rose as much as
7.4 percent. Lan,  Latin America ’s largest airline by market
value, rose 0.5 percent to 12,535 pesos in Santiago after
earlier gaining as much as 4.2 percent.  Shares had surged earlier on speculation the court will
allow Lan Airlines SA’s planned $3.7 billion takeover.  The constitutional court has called for a hearing Aug. 31
at 9:30 a.m. New York time to review the transaction, according
to a statement on its website. The probe follows a request filed
by rival carrier Pal Airlines on Aug. 3. If the court declares
the claim inadmissible, the constitutional probe will end.
Chile’s Antitrust Tribunal, known as TDLC, hasn’t ruled on the
case yet.  If the constitutional court agrees to review the case, it
will postpone a final decision from TDLC, Mabel Weber, an
analyst at Santiago-based brokerage BICE Inversiones, said today
in a phone interview. “If that happens, then the merger
wouldn’t take place early next year and would add a lot of
volatility to the stocks,” she said.  Lan agreed to buy Tam in an all-stock transaction in August
2010. The combination follows similar tie-ups among U.S. and
European carriers trying to reduce operating costs and increase
revenue by offering a broader global market to passengers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net 
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  