-- 
Apple’s Jobs Resigns as CEO, Will Be Succeeded by Tim Cook

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-08-25T20:59:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/apple-ceo-steve-jobs-resigns.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs , who transformed the company he started at age 21
from a personal-computer also-ran into the world’s largest
technology company, resigned.  Jobs, who will become chairman, was on medical leave since
Jan. 17 after combating a rare form of cancer since 2003 and
surviving a  liver transplant  in 2009. He is succeeded by Chief
Operating Officer  Tim Cook , 50, who has been running day-to-day
operations.  “I have always said if there ever came a day when I could
no longer meet my duties and expectations as Apple’s CEO, I
would be the first to let you know,” Jobs, 56, said in a
statement yesterday. “Unfortunately, that day has come.”  Under Jobs, Apple became the second-most valuable company
in the world, after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , by introducing devices
that revolutionized the computer, music and mobile phone
industries. His attention to detail and emphasis on sleek, easy-
to-use products helped Apple repel competition from rivals as
varied as Google Inc. and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   “He’s always going to be remembered, maybe for the next
100 years, as the greatest technology business leader of our
time,” Steve Wozniak, who co-founded Apple with Jobs, said in
an interview on “Bloomberg West.” “Company culture doesn’t
change overnight. He’s got tens of thousands of employees. The
quality of the products reflects how good they are, too.”  Jobs’s Health  The day of the announcement, Jobs was in Apple’s Cupertino,
California, office for the entire work day, and he attended a
regularly scheduled board meeting, according to a person close
to Jobs, who was not authorized to speak about the executive’s
health. While Jobs has been housebound for the last few weeks
and his condition is weak, the resignation was not indicative of
a sudden worsening, this person said.  Jobs told the board he intends to be an active chairman,
and he held an emotional meeting with his executive team
afterward, according to another person familiar with the matter.  “Steve’s extraordinary vision and leadership saved Apple
and guided it to its position as the world’s most innovative and
valuable technology company,” Art Levinson, an Apple director,
said in a statement on behalf of the board. “Steve has made
countless contributions to Apple’s success, and he has attracted
and inspired Apple’s immensely creative employees and world
class executive team.”  Apple Shares  Jobs was ousted by the board in 1985 amid differences over
strategy. In his time away, Jobs ran movie animation studio
Pixar, which he later sold to  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , as well as NeXT
Software Inc., which Apple acquired to return him to the
company. Jobs is Disney’s largest shareholder, with a 7.4
percent stake, worth more than $4.4 billion. He will remain on
the entertainment company’s board, a person with knowledge of
the matter said.  When Jobs returned 12 years later, Apple had run up $1.86
billion in losses over two years. It was 90 days away from
bankruptcy, Jobs would later say.  As of yesterday, Apple stock surged 9,020 percent since
July 29, 1997, the day before the San Francisco Chronicle broke
news that Jobs would be interim CEO. Over that period, the
market value rose to $348.7 billion from $2.06 billion.  Salary of $1  Jobs gets an annual salary of $1 from Apple, and collects
no bonus or compensation for his board membership. His pay is
wrapped up in the 5.55 million shares he owns, which were valued
at $2.07 billion as of today’s market close.  “The company believes Mr. Jobs’s level of stock ownership
significantly aligns his interests with shareholders’
interests,” Apple said in a Jan. 7 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Apple shares fell $2.46, or 0.7 percent, to $373.72 at 4
p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Any decline in
the shares may be short lived, said Daniel Genter, who oversees
about $3.7 billion as president of Los Angeles-based RNC Genter
Capital Management.  “Jobs has been a strong figure in the company
historically, but he hasn’t been a driving force for the past
two years,” said Genter. “It brings clarity. It shouldn’t have
an effect on the overall market, but this market is so skittish
so it may have a short-term negative impact.”  Transformation  Since his return, Jobs has led Apple’s transformation into
a seller of everything from smartphones to music. He engineered
the company’s comeback by honing Apple’s industrial design,
tightly integrating software and hardware, and pushing into new
markets.  The iPhone, introduced in 2007, has become Apple’s best-
selling product and turned the company into the world’s biggest
smartphone maker. After winning customers away from Research In
Motion Ltd. and Nokia Oyj, Apple is now sparring with Google for
leadership in the market for mobile-phone software.  “Steve Jobs is a visionary in the computer industry,”
Stephen Elop, the former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  executive who became
CEO of Nokia last September, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
look forward to both Steve and his team having a positive impact
on our industry for many years to come.”  While Nokia is still the world’s largest mobile-phone
manufacturer by volume, its handset revenue was surpassed for
the first time by Apple’s iPhone sales in the first quarter.  ‘Hall of Fame’  “Under Steve’s leadership Apple has not only
revolutionized the computer industry but also transformed how
the world communicates, plays, shops and works,” said  Frank Quattrone , CEO of Qatalyst Partners LLP, a Silicon Valley
investment bank. “In the entrepreneur hall of fame, he is the
charter member. He is, and will remain, an inspiration to the
world.”  Cook joined Apple in 1998. As operating chief, his
oversight included sales, manufacturing and distribution.  “The world will see in the next several years that Tim is
a very uniquely gifted guy and Apple will be wildly successful
under his leadership,” said John Connors, a venture capitalist
at Ignition Partners, who serves on the Nike Inc. board with
Cook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  