-- 
Apple Fine Tunes Mac Air, Making Best Better: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-08-24T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/apple-turbocharges-mac-air-making-best-better-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Is it possible for any  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
product to suffer a lack of attention? Probably not, but if it
were, it might be the recently revamped  MacBook Air .  Released at the same time as Lion, the new version of the
OS X operating system, the Air at first glimpse is little
changed from the model that was introduced last year. But Apple
has made enough improvements, most of them under the hood, to
cement its position as the most enjoyable laptop you can buy.  The Air comes in two models. The smaller, weighing in at
just under 2.5 pounds, has an 11.6-inch screen and 2 gigabytes
of memory. Starting at $999, it is the cheapest MacBook of any
kind. The larger, weighing just under 3 pounds, has a 13.3-inch
display and 4 gigabytes; it starts at $1,299.  I’ve been testing the 13.3-incher, which comes with a
gorgeous 1,440-by-900 high-resolution screen. Like all the Airs,
it uses chips rather than a hard drive to store data.  The chips take up little space, helping make possible the
Air’s lightness and thinness. And they contain no moving parts,
making them more power-efficient and reliable than physical hard
drives, which can fail with sometimes disastrous consequences.
(Though not for you, of course, because you always back up your
stuff, right?)  No Waiting  Since there’s no waiting around for a mechanical head to
locate your data on a spinning platter, the chips make the Air
very, very fast. From a cold start, it took me 28 seconds to get
to the log-in screen on a hard-drive based MacBook Pro; the Air
took 15 seconds. Shutting down the Pro took six seconds, the Air
three seconds.  When Apple unveiled a redesigned Air last year, its brain,
 Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s Core 2 Duo microprocessor, was already antiquated.
It could bog down if you had too many tasks going at one time.  The new models remedy that by replacing the Core 2 Duo with
Intel’s newest-generation Core i5 processors, known as  “Sandy
Bridge.”  Programs open quickly and there’s little slowdown even
if you’ve got a lot of windows open. The zippier performance is
particularly evident if you’re doing processor-intensive tasks
like editing videos.  As with all current MacBooks, you can’t replace the Air’s
battery, yet it delivers almost iPad-like performance. Apple
says the 13-inch model provides up to seven hours of use, but I
was actually able to do even better. (The smaller model claims
up to five hours of battery life.)  Let There Be Backlight  That’s especially good considering that the new Airs bring
back the backlit keyboard that went missing with the 2010
models. And speaking of keyboards, typing on the Air is a
largely comfortable experience, thanks to the generous expanses
of brushed metal flanking a track pad more than big enough to
accommodate all of Lion’s gesture-based operations.  One area where the Air is a little too light, at least for
the moment, is in connectivity. While the new high-speed USB 3.0
connections are fast becoming commonplace, Apple sticks with the
older, slower 2.0 standard, and only provides two of them. It’s
betting that a new kind of connection, called  Thunderbolt , will
be the wave of the future.  Problem is, there aren’t a lot of accessories that support
Thunderbolt, and it isn’t clear how widespread it will be beyond
the Apple universe. So far, the most impressive Thunderbolt
peripheral out there is Apple’s own $999, 27-inch  external
display , which does double-duty as monitor and docking station.
It’s pretty awesome, but at least one more USB port on the
computer, preferably of the 3.0 variety, would prove more
useful, at least in the short run.  Costly Gigs  The Air’s other significant drawback is the cost per
gigabyte of its solid-state storage. The base 11-inch model
holds just 64 GB, as much as a high-end iPod Touch. The larger
Air stores 128 GB. Doubling the capacity of each will set you
back another $200 or $300, respectively.  Even so, the Air is a bargain compared to other ultra-thin-
and-light laptops. For example, the Series 9 from Samsung
Electronics Co., which runs  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows operating
system, costs $350 more than the comparable Apple. That price
advantage, coming on top of the MacBook Air’s latest
enhancements, reaffirms its position as the best laptop on the
market.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 