-- 
Applied Materials Forecasts Sales Below Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-08-24T22:10:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/applied-materials-forecasts-fourth-quarter-sales-profit-below-estimates.html
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , the world’s
largest producer of chipmaking equipment, forecast fourth-
quarter sales and profit that missed analysts’ estimates as
weaker demand leads semiconductor makers to cut expansion plans.  Profit before certain costs in the period ending in October
will be 16 cents to 24 cents a share, the company said in a
statement today. Sales will decline as much as 30 percent from
the prior quarter, Applied said, indicating revenue of as little
as $1.95 billion. Analysts on average predicted profit of 31
cents on sales of $2.55 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  Applied’s customers are scaling back on orders for new
machinery amid concern that demand is stalling for computers,
mobile phones and consumer electronics. The company also
supplies makers of TV and computer flat-panel displays and solar
panels, two markets that are also “under pressure,” said
Patrick Ho, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  Dallas .  “They could be a little bit worse off than their peers,”
said Ho, who recommends buying Applied Materials shares. “The
key things are their peripheral businesses, the solar and the
display.”  Applied Materials shares fell as much as 7.5 percent in
extended trading after the report. The shares had dropped 8
cents to $11.36 at 4 p.m. today on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The
stock has lost 19 percent this year.  Third Quarter  Third-quarter net income was $476 million, or 36 cents a
share, compared with $123 million, or 9 cents, in the same
period a year earlier, the  Santa Clara , California-based company
said. Revenue rose 11 percent to $2.79 billion.  Excluding certain costs, profit was 35 cents a share.
Analysts on average had estimated profit of 33 cents on $2.67
billion of sales.  Fiscal fourth-quarter revenue will fall 15 percent to 30
percent from the third quarter’s, the company said. That equates
to sales of $1.95 billion to $2.37 billion.  Some customers have delayed orders for machinery and others
have canceled, Applied said today. Made-to-order chipmakers, or
foundries, and memory-chip makers have become more cautious
about spending, Chief Executive Officer Mike Splinter said on a
conference call.  The company will use factory shutdowns to reduce expenses
in the next two quarters when orders decline, Chief Financial
Officer  George Davis  said on the call. Applied will also limit
hiring, which will help cut spending by about $20 million, he
said.  Tablets, Smartphones, Solar  Splinter said the slowdown feels similar to one in 2005
that lasted about two quarters.  “Tablets are strong, smartphones are strong and end demand
in solar is good,” he said in an interview. “If the economy
came back, it would turn fast.”  Under Splinter, Applied has branched out into machinery
that makes solar panels and flat-panel monitors, trying to find
markets that will provide a cushion from the wide swings in
demand for chipmaking equipment.  The solar industry is being hit by the removal of
government subsidies to panel buyers and a flood of new supply,
causing prices to plummet. TV and computer display makers are
also churning out too many panels, sending prices lower. Applied
today said orders from both display makers and energy and
environmental customers declined in the third quarter.  Rivals’ Forecasts  In July, Applied reaffirmed its forecast for the total
market for chip-manufacturing equipment to be $30 billion to $33
billion this year, citing optimism that the largest chipmakers
would stick to their spending budgets.  At the time, that forecast contrasted with more bearish
comments from rivals. Last month, Novellus Systems Inc.
projected third-quarter sales and profit that fell short of
analysts’ estimates, saying customers had become more
pessimistic about demand and were delaying orders.  KLA-Tencor Corp. (KLAC) , whose machinery helps chipmakers ensure
that each stage of production is completed successfully, said
orders may decline as much as 20 percent in the second half of
this year from the first six months.  Investors and analysts track semiconductor-equipment orders
as an early indicator of demand for electronics. Chipmakers such
as  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Samsung Electronics Co. vary their spending
on new equipment and plants according to how they foresee demand
as much as two years in the future. Their factories can cost
more than $3 billion to build and are run 24 hours a day, which
makes the companies careful with equipment purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  