-- 
Market Setting Low Rates for Wind Power in Peru Through Auction

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-08-24T18:09:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/market-setting-low-rates-for-wind-power-in-peru-through-auction.html
Peru  awarded developers contracts to
sell power from 10 renewable energy projects using an auction
system that’s become more common among South American countries
that want to let the market set the price for clean electricity.  Prices ranged from $69 a megawatt-hour for a wind farm to
$119.90 for a photovoltaic solar park, the country’s energy and
mining regulator Organismo Supervisor de la Inversion en Energia
y Mineria said today on its website.  That’s less than half the price of power in some countries
where the government sets the rates, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance, and comes less than a week after developers in
 Brazil  sold power from wind farms at even lower prices through a
similar auction. Uruguay accepted yesterday 23 bids in an
auction for wind power at comparable levels.  “Auctions provide a price-discovery mechanism,” Jenny Chase, an analyst at New Energy Finance, said today in a
telephone interview. “Most that have been held in the world so
far have led to much lower prices than other incentive programs
like feed-in-tariffs.”  Developers in  Italy  receive 145 euros ($209) for a
megawatt-hour of electricity generated by renewable sources,
under a government incentive system, according to data compiled
by New Energy Finance. Wind farms get 77 euros a megawatt-hour
in  Spain  and 82 euros in  France , both through feed-in tariff
programs in which the government sets a fixed price for power.  Cheapest Power Source  Wind developers in Brazil were awarded contracts at an
average price of 99.58 reais ($61.99) a megawatt-hour at an
auction completed Aug. 17, making it the country’s cheapest
source of power.  Bids for a Uruguay auction that’s still in process fell as
low as $63 a megawatt-hour, according to a statement posted
online by state-owned power company  Usinas y Terminales
Electricas .  Too many companies competing for too few contracts may have
prompted developers to accept contracts at unsustainably low
levels, Eduardo Tabbush, a New Energy Finance analyst, said in a
telephone interview.  “These prices are almost too good to be true,” he said.
Developers in Peru may be “bidding below what’s financially
viable.”  Brazil has domestic wind-turbine manufacturers and some of
the most blustery weather in the region, while the same can’t be
said of Uruguay and Peru, Tabbush said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  