-- 
Marshall Wace Financials Funds Buy Chinese Banks, Property Firms

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-08-24T01:18:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/marshall-wace-funds-buy-chinese-banks-developers-on-interest-rate-outlook.html
Marshall Wace LLP, the London-based
asset manager founded by Paul Marshall and Ian Wace, has added
Chinese banking and property stocks to two  hedge funds , betting
a global economic slowdown will prompt an easing in domestic
tightening.  China  is the largest single-country bullish bet of two
global financial hedge funds run by the firm, said their Hong
Kong-based manager Amit Rajpal, 38, a former head of Morgan
Stanley’s global financials research team.  Debt crises and economic data in Europe and the U.S. have
heightened concerns about a double-dip recession and weakening
demand for emerging market exports. Banks such as Deutsche Bank
AG and Morgan Stanley have cut their forecasts for China’s 2012
economic growth as an aftermath of the slowdown in the west.  “Ultimately we take the view that China would have no
option but to end this tightening campaign very soon,” Rajpal
said in an interview yesterday. “That itself could be a
catalyst for the outperformance of Chinese markets and Chinese
banks, which are very policy driven.”  China may be the first major emerging market to ease
monetary tightening put in place to curb inflation in order to
maintain economic growth, Rajpal said. He cited its closer
integration with the world economy through exports and ability
to contain inflation within isolated commodities such as pork.  Vanke, Banks  The funds began to buy into property companies such as
China Vanke Co., the nation’s largest listed property developer,
about a month ago, said Rajpal. They also hold shares of China
Construction Banking Corp.,  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  and Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd., three of the nation’s largest state banks.  The Chinese stocks the funds own now exceed the amount
they’re shorting by 20 percent of their combined assets under
management, according to Rajpal. Shorting involves selling
borrowed stocks, hoping to profit by buying them back later when
their prices fall.  Marshall Wace Global Financials Emerging Growth Fund
returned 2.6 percent this year through July after gaining 17
percent last year. Marshall Wace Global Financials Market-
Neutral Fund, which doesn’t bet on general market directions,
returned 8 percent in 2010.  Rajpal declined to disclose assets under management in the
funds, citing a company policy.  The funds have shorted “slightly” more shares than the
amount they own in the past month, Rajpal said, declining to
quantify them. It is net short financial stocks in U.S.,  Europe 
and emerging markets such as  Brazil , which has a brewing credit
crisis from previous years’ overlending to consumers and
companies.  Global Meltdown  The world could be headed toward a Europe-led meltdown akin
to that seen in 2008, with more than a 30 percent drop in stock
prices, strengthening of “safe haven” currencies such as
dollar and yen, and financial institutions reporting a new round
of losses related to revaluation of the sovereign debt they hold,
Rajpal said.  The MSCI World/Financials Index has lost 25 percent of its
value since the end of April, outpacing the broader MSCI World
Index’s 18 percent retreat.  Rajpal prefers yuan-denominated shares traded on China’s
Shanghai stock exchange instead of those quoted in Hong Kong.
China still restricts foreign investment in its domestic stock
market, making it less susceptible to the global aversion to
risky investments, he added.  Bullish on Property  The Chinese government raised the minimum down payment for
second-home purchases this year and about 40 cities including
Beijing and  Shanghai  started limiting the number of apartments
to two for each family, and one for non-locals.  The State Council, China’s chief administrative authority,
said last month it will expand measures aimed at curbing  home
prices  to smaller cities after limiting purchases in the largest
urban areas.  Rajpal is also bullish about the Chinese property industry
because of the country’s double-digit consumer income growth and
low debt level, he said.  He likes Chinese banks because declines in share prices
have depressed valuations to levels similar to those seen during
the global financial crisis. BOC trades at five times 2012
estimated earnings and 0.8 times book value, roughly half of the
five-year average, Rajpal said.  Chinese banks have increased the pricing of loans, their
fee-based businesses and lifted revenue faster than costs in the
last two years, allowing them to retain 30 percent earnings
growth even as loan book expansion has slowed on domestic
tightening. Those together with loan-loss  provisions  which now
stand at nearly 250 percent of dud loans will offset risks in
their infrastructure financing and real estate lending, Rajpal
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  