-- 
Harvard’s Kaplan Says Vision Makes a Great Company: Interview

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-08-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/harvard-s-kaplan-says-vision-not-profit-makes-a-great-company-interview.html
Robert  Steven Kaplan  has spent more
than a quarter of a century pondering successful leadership,
climbing through the ranks to become vice-chairman of the
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and, since 2005, teaching management
practice at  Harvard Business School .  What he observed is that great leaders have vision and can
articulate it; manage their time in accordance with their
priorities; and give and get the right kind of feedback.  According to Kaplan, 54, asking the right questions is 90
percent of the struggle. His new book, “ What to Ask the Person
in the Mirror ,” is a pragmatic guide to leadership.  We spoke at Bloomberg world headquarters in  New York .  Lundborg: Why is articulating a vision so tough for CEOs?  Kaplan: It requires a lot of thought. Before you can do it,
you have to decide what your competitive strengths are, and
sometimes that can’t be answered in three minutes.  Plus the world is constantly changing, and often management
hasn’t kept up.  Lundborg: Money is not enough?  Kaplan: We all want to make money, but the vision has to be
aspirational. What makes a great firm is adherence to ideals.  From my experience, the secret sauce at Goldman was a
fundamental belief that the client’s interests came first and an
obsession with how to add value to clients.  I say this not having drunk the Kool-Aid.  Lundborg: You say that people who are in it for the dough
rather than passion tend to get burned out. On  Wall Street , can
you tell the difference?  In the Client’s Shoes  Kaplan: Sure. I was on the client side, and I always used
one simple test: Put yourself in the shoes of the client. Decide
what you would do if you were the CEO. Are we giving them that
advice? That’s it.  If what you’re focused on is making more money for the
firm, then you need to find another line of work.  Lundborg: One can learn to be a great leader?  Kaplan: It’s not just about talent. Over-communicating,
delegating, coaching, getting coached, asking questions, looking
at things using a clean sheet of paper are some good strategies.  Lundborg: You say a CEO has to get feedback on his
performance from his employees, yet many people think offering
it to him requires a professional death wish.  Kaplan: The CEO needs to ask for it from subordinates. The
onus is on the senior person in the powerful position.  Lundborg: I loved the guy who said that the best possible
strategy is to read the CEO’s mind and then tell him what he
thinks before he says it.  Coaching the CEO  Kaplan: Yes, but for coaching to be helpful the CEO has to
ask a specific question: “Tell me one thing I can improve on.”
The answer is almost always “Nothing,” but then you just have
to pull it out of the person.  Lundborg: Was the financial crisis a failure of
leadership?  Kaplan: Wall Street made a number of mistakes. The mix of
trading had grown; there was a lack of regulation, too much
leverage, varying degrees of risk management. But at the bottom
was a belief that  home prices  wouldn’t decline.  The thing I regret is the cultural change on Wall Street,
which has always been to serve the needs of clients. What’s hard
to watch as an outsider now is that it’s not as clear that Wall
Street has been playing that role.  Leaving Goldman  Lundborg: How did you make the transition from Goldman to
Harvard?  Kaplan: It was emotionally difficult. I’d been talking to
 Hank Paulson  for some time about going -- I’d been at the firm
22 years. I was actively involved with a number of non-profits
and felt there was still more I wanted to do in the world.  I happened to be at Harvard and I spoke with a few faculty
members. Nitin Nohria, who’s now the dean, said, “Why don’t you
come here on a leave of absence?”  I spent a year getting my nerve up, and then went to teach
leadership.  Lundborg: You were not tempted by the government, like many
of your colleagues?  Kaplan: Someday I probably will have a role in government -
- I’d like to help the country. I work with a lot of governors
and state treasurers right now, advising them.  But the Goldman background at the moment makes it a little
harder for government officials to want you to join.  Lundborg: What do you say to those who call your advice
“ivory tower baloney?”  Kaplan: That’s just cynicism -- they should meet me.  What I wrote is a road map to take all that passion, desire
and nervous energy and channel it into constructive things you
can do to make yourself a leader who can decide what you
believe, find the courage to act on it and make a positive
impact on the world.  It’s fun to be a leader.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 