-- 
Asian Currencies Drop on Chance Fed Will Disappoint on Stimulus

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-08-24T09:15:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/asian-currencies-drop-on-chance-fed-will-disappoint-on-stimulus.html
Asian currencies retreated, led by
 India ’s rupee and South Korea’s won, on speculation the  Federal
Reserve  won’t embark on a new series of stimulus measures to
boost the  U.S. economy .  There is a “high risk” that a “big policy response” may
not be forthcoming when central bankers from around the world
meet in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, this week, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said in a report released yesterday. Last year,
the Federal Reserve announced a second round of bond buying that
boosted the supply of dollars, known as quantitative easing, at
the annual meeting.  “Expectation for QE3 is low, given higher inflation and
the uncertain result that more quantitative easing could bring
to the economy,” said  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “Asian currencies are likely
to be affected near-term with higher risk aversion. If the U.S.
and  Europe  slow more than expected, Asian exports will
definitely be impacted.”  The rupee fell 0.6 percent to 45.8725 per dollar as of 2
p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The won
and Malaysia’s ringgit weakened 0.4 percent to 1,082.24 and
2.9780, respectively. The Philippine peso lost 0.3 percent to
42.455 and  Thailand ’s baht retreated 0.2 percent to 29.90.  Data due Aug. 26 will show the world’s biggest economy grew
less than initially forecast in the second quarter. Gross
domestic product increased at an annualized 1.1 percent from the
previous three months, compared with the 1.3 percent estimated
last month, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Japan  Downgrade  The ringgit snapped a three-day gain after Moody’s
Investors Service cut Japan’s credit rating by one level to Aa3,
the fourth-best investment grade, citing weak prospects for
growth that will make it difficult for the government to cut its
debt burden. Japan bought 11 percent of  Malaysia ’s overseas
shipments in the first half, making it the country’s third-
largest export market.  “Risk appetite remains very tentative for now as global
growth is at risk of stalling and further monetary stimulus via
potential QE3 in the U.S. may not materialize,” said Saktiandi
Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research at Malayan Banking Bhd.
in Singapore. “Expect Asian currencies to trade with slight
weakness.”  Thai Rate Hike  The baht dropped the most in almost three weeks after the
central bank raised borrowing costs today and said the benchmark
rate is close to a “normal” level. The Bank of Thailand lifted
its one-day bond repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage
point to 3.5 percent, as predicted by 16 of 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The rest expected no change.  “They seem to be slightly more dovish amid growing concern
about the global economy,” said Satoshi Ushijima, vice president
of the treasury division at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
Bangkok. “The baht may see some downward pressure due to the
slightly weakening tone for the rate hikes, and external risks.”  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah and the Taiwan dollar
weakened 0.1 percent against the greenback to 8,555 and
NT$29.025, respectively. The  Singapore  dollar declined 0.1
percent to S$1.2055, while  China ’s yuan advanced 0.13 percent to
6.3885, its biggest gain in almost two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  