-- 
Asia-Pacific Bond Risk Rises, Credit-Default Swap Prices Show

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-08-24T00:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/asia-pacific-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
The cost of insuring Asia-Pacific
corporate and sovereign bonds against default increased,
according to traders of credit-default swaps.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index rose 1 basis point to 147
basis points as of 9:02 a.m. in  Tokyo , after Moody’s Investors
Service cut the nation’s rating, Deutsche Bank AG prices show.
That’s on course for its highest level since March 16, according
to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Five-year swaps on Japan’s sovereign debt were little
changed at 109, Deutsche Bank prices show.  Japan’s sovereign-credit rating was lowered one step to Aa3
by Moody’s, which cited “weak” prospects for economic growth
that will make it difficult for the government to rein in the
world’s largest public debt burden.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index advanced 2 basis points
to 171 basis points as of 10:01 a.m. in Sydney, Credit Agricole
CIB prices show. That’s on course for its highest since July 22,
2009, according to CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan climbed 1 basis point to 159 basis
points as of 8:01 a.m. in  Hong Kong , according to Credit
Agricole prices.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  