-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Rebounds as Global Equities Slump

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-08-25T22:04:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-tumbles-most-since-march-2008.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Rebounds as Equity Slump Revives Demand for Metal as Haven  Gold rebounded in  New York , halting the biggest decline
since 2008, as slumping global equities revived the appeal of
the precious metal as a haven asset.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Alpha to Clean Up Dirtiest U.S. Coal Company After Massey  To reach the active section of the Long Pole mine in Pike
County,  Kentucky , you board a mantrip, a low-slung, rail-riding
vehicle, and trundle down a gentle underground slope for a mile
or so. You recline almost flat, because this is “low coal”;
the mine roof is only 42 inches (106 centimeters) high.  Glencore CEO Glasenberg Set to Reap $163 Million Dividend (1)  Ivan Glasenberg, chief executive officer and largest holder
of Glencore International Plc, is set to reap a dividend of
about $163 million for 2011 amid a 27 percent slump in the stock
from its May initial public offering.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Climbs After Glencore Says ‘Real Demand’ Will Continue  Copper rose the most in two weeks after Glencore
International Plc said demand growth for the metal is set to
maintain its pace.  MINING:  Freeport, Newmont Agree to New Peruvian Mining Windfall Tax (2)  Companies including Newmont Mining Corp., Xstrata Plc and
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. agreed to pay a mining
windfall tax of 3 billion soles ($1.1 billion) per year in  Peru 
as the Andean country seeks to tap surging metals prices to
boost public spending.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Impala Platinum Expects Output Drop; Profit Beats Estimates (1)  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd., the world’s second-largest
producer of the metal, expects output to decline 7.6 percent
this fiscal year because results last year included some volumes
from competitor Lonmin Plc.  AGRICULTURE:  Wheat Gains as Dry U.S. May Cut Winter Sowing; Corn, Soy Steady  Wheat futures rose to a 10-week high on speculation that
dry weather in the U.S. Great Plains will limit planting of the
winter crop during the next two months. Corn and soybeans were
little changed.  Sugar Drops as Supply Concerns Ease; Coffee Gains; Cocoa Falls  Sugar fell for a second straight day on signs that rising
production in  Asia  and  Europe  will mean supplies will be ample
even as output drops in  Brazil , the world’s biggest grower.
Coffee rose, and cocoa dropped.  Hog Futures Rise as U.S. Pork Demand May Rebound; Cattle Climb  Hog futures advanced for the first time in three sessions
on speculation that demand for U.S. pork will climb. Cattle
prices gained.  Cotton Declines as U.S. Sales Are Canceled;  Orange Juice  Rises  Cotton futures fell the most in more than two weeks after a
report showed overseas buyers scrapped orders for supplies from
the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter. Orange juice rose.  Sanderson Farms May Be Profitable in Six Months, CEO Says (1)  Sanderson Farms Inc., the fourth-largest U.S. chicken
processor, said it may return to a profit in six months after
the company today posted a wider-than-expected loss in the
fiscal third quarter.  Minnesota  Corn Yields Rise, Soy Pods Fall, Tour Shows (Correct)  Corn yields in Minnesota probably will rise, and soybean
yields will fall, based on field inspections during the fourth
and final day of the annual Pro Farmer Midwest Crop tour.  SHIPPING:  Dry-Bulk Ship Orders Are Probably Overstated, Golden Ocean Says  Orders for ships carrying dry-bulk commodities are probably
overstated because older contracts that have expired weren’t
removed from the total, according to Golden Ocean Group Ltd.,
the dry-bulk shipping line led by Norway-born billionaire  John
Fredriksen .  Freight Rates Rising as Hurricane Irene Disrupts Shipping (1)  Freight rates are rising for vessels passing through the
western Atlantic region as Hurricane Irene delays voyages,
according to the Baltic and International Maritime Council,
which represents two-thirds of the world’s merchant fleet.  ECONOMIES:  Jobless Claims in U.S. Rise, Propelled by Verizon Dispute (1)  Claims for U.S. unemployment benefits unexpectedly rose
last week, pushed up for a second time by a labor dispute at
Verizon Communications Inc.  Obama Export-Doubling Goal in Doubt as Global Economy Slows (1)  President  Barack Obama ’s pledge to double U.S. exports by
2015 is in doubt as slowing economic growth for the nation’s
biggest trading partners damps demand and outweighs the benefits
of a weaker dollar.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Stocks Snap Three-Day Rally Amid German Selloff, Jobs Data  U.S. stocks fell, snapping a three-day rally, after jobless
claims unexpectedly increased and selling in German futures
sparked a rout in global equities.  Euro Falls as Regulators Extend Short-Selling Bans; Rand Climbs  The euro weakened for a second day against the dollar as
European regulators extended bans on short-selling in equity
markets in an effort to prevent the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis from worsening.  Oil Rises on Speculation of Additional Stimulus, Irene Threat  Crude oil  increased on speculation Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  will announce more stimulus and as Hurricane
Irene threatened to shut refineries on the U.S. East Coast.  SPORTS:  Barcelona Meets Milan in  Champions League ; Real Faces Ajax (1)  Barcelona and AC Milan, who’ve won 11 European Cup titles
between them, will meet in the group stage of soccer’s Champions
League.  North Korea  Is Banned From 2015 Women’s  World Cup  for Doping  Soccer ruling body FIFA banned North Korea from the next
Women’s World Cup after five of its players failed drug tests at
this year’s tournament in Germany,  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Enoch in Washington at 
 denoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  