-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise, Gold Drops Most Since 2008

-- B y   J e f f   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-24T21:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/asian-stocks-rise-on-fed-stimulus-speculation-yen-pares-losses-on-rating.html
Gold fell the most since 2008 and
Treasuries dropped as U.S. stocks and the dollar rose after
reports on durable-goods orders and  home prices  beat estimates.  Gold futures slumped 5.5 percent to $1,758.90 an ounce in
after-hours trading at 4:38 p.m. in New York. Prices surpassed
$1,900 for the first time ever this week. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index climbed 1.3 percent to 1,177.60, building on
yesterday’s 3.4 percent surge. Treasuries dropped, driving
yields on 10-year notes up 14 basis points to 2.30 percent. The
U.S. currency gained versus all of its 16 major peers, and the
Dollar Index rallied 0.2 percent after declining 0.3 percent.  Stocks swung between gains and losses, with the S&P 500
rebounding from a 0.5 percent decline, as trading was swayed
more than usual by levels watched by so-called technical
analysts as investors await an Aug. 26 speech by Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . Gold
retreated amid speculation financial markets are stabilizing.  “Any time you see life in the walking dead, it certainly
makes you feel a lot better,” Bruce McCain, who helps oversee
$22 billion as chief investment strategist at the private-
banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland , said in a telephone
interview. “If investors can be reassured that a disaster is
not imminent, that’s good for the market and the industries that
got hammered lately.”  Contrasting Reports  The reports on goods meant to last at least three years and
housing prices contrasted with data this month on jobless
claims,  consumer confidence  and manufacturing that spurred
concern the U.S. is poised for a recession. The  S&P 500  lost 15
percent between April 29 and yesterday, with the retreat
accelerating in July after a debate in Congress on how to cut
the  budget deficit  spurred S&P to strip the government of its
AAA credit rating.  A rally earlier today lost momentum after the S&P 500 rose
to about 1,173, its closing level after gains of 4.7 percent on
Aug. 9 and 4.6 percent on Aug. 11. The index surged yesterday
after falling to 1,121.09 the day before, within 2 points of its
11-month closing low of 1,119.46, reached Aug. 8.  “Resistance came in pretty much where you would expect to
see it followed by a predictable pullback to last night’s
close,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management in New York, said in an e-mail. His firm oversees $1
billion. “The most likely outcome is still a retracement of the
majority of yesterday’s gains in the U.S., but if the S&P 500
could move back up above 1,170-1,175 again, maybe you’d get the
shorts under some pressure.”  Financial stocks in the S&P 500 rose 2.8 percent, the most
within 10 groups. Bank of America Corp. surged 11 percent as
 Meredith Whitney , who predicted Citigroup Inc.’s dividend cut
three years ago, said it has no urgent need to raise capital.
Newmont Mining Corp. fell 1.6 percent as gold sank.  Gold Tumbles  Gold dropped as yesterday’s rally in stocks eroded the
appeal of the precious metal as a haven. The metal plunged 5.6
percent in regular trading to settle at $1,757.30, its biggest
drop since March 2008. It has tumbled after peaking at a record
$1,917.90 an ounce yesterday.  “Gold is where people are hiding versus the stock market,
so as the stock market stabilizes or improves, you will see gold
sell off,”  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage $26 billion at
Security Global Investors in Irvington,  New York , said in an e-
mail. “The markets will continue to be volatile as we head into
Friday and Bernanke’s speech.”  Bernanke and other central bankers are meeting in Jackson
Hole for an annual conference sponsored by the Fed Bank of
 Kansas City . Bernanke’s hint of a second round of asset
purchases, or quantitative easing, during the same event last
year spurred an eight-month rally in the S&P 500.  Renewed Optimism  Treasuries fell, with yields on the 10-year note reaching
2.30 percent, as the durable-goods report renewed optimism that
the U.S. economic recovery may accelerate. The Treasury sold $35
billion in five-year notes at a record low auction yield today.
The sale is the second of three note auctions this week totaling
$99 billion.  The euro lost 0.2 percent to $1.4414. The U.S. currency
climbed 0.4 percent against the Swiss franc. Currencies of
higher-yielding countries including  New Zealand  and  South Africa 
fell as U.S. stocks fluctuated, damping risk appetite.  The yen fell 0.4 percent against the dollar and 0.3 percent
against the euro and as  Japan  took steps to help companies cope
with the currency’s strength. Officials will release $100
billion to fund loans by  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation , Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters in
 Tokyo . JBIC, as the lender is known, is a state-run export
credit agency.  Japan Credit  Moody’s Investors Service cut Japan’s credit rating by one
step, saying “weak” prospects for growth will make it
difficult to tackle public debt. The company put the nation’s
debt on review for a downgrade in May, calling on the government
to step up its efforts to narrow the budget gap.  Crude oil dipped 0.3 percent to $85.16 a barrel as the
plunge in gold and rise of the dollar curbed investor interest
in raw materials. Futures were up as much as 1.4 percent after
an Energy Department report showed U.S. inventories unexpectedly
declined as refinery operations matched a one-year high.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 1.4 percent after dropping
as much as 0.6 percent earlier, even as data showed German
business confidence fell to its lowest in more than a year. The
index is up 3 percent for the week. WPP Plc, the world’s biggest
advertising agency, climbed 7.4 percent after reporting earnings
that beat estimates. Heineken NV tumbled 7.6 percent as the
third-largest brewer by volume said profit is unlikely to grow
this year.  Rates on Greek two-year notes soared to the highest level
since the euro was introduced. Yields climbed 4.4 percentage
points to 44.03 percent on concern the nation’s second bailout
will be delayed as its euro-region partners squabble over a
collateral deal. Greek yields have surged since Finland said on
Aug. 16 it secured a collateral deal to ensure its contribution
would be repaid, garnering criticism from other euro-area
nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Sutherland  in New York at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  