-- 
Asia’s Hedge-Fund Assets to Grow, May Reach $180 Billion, Eurekahedge Says

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 
2011-08-24T02:24:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/asia-s-hedge-fund-assets-to-grow-may-reach-180-billion-eurekahedge-says.html
Assets managed by Asian  hedge funds 
may exceed $180 billion in the next 12 to 18 months as the
region’s growth attracts investors amid U.S. economic and Europe
sovereign debt concerns, according to  Eurekahedge Pte .  Asian hedge-fund assets stood at $134 billion at the end of
June, compared with $14 billion at the start of 2000, according
to an e-mailed report by the Singapore-based industry researcher.
The number of funds has grown eight times to 1,235 since 2000,
the report said, citing increased popularity of hedge funds and
the easing of regulatory restrictions in the region.  Investors seeking to capture the economic expansion in  Asia 
are helping the growth of hedge funds in the region, which still
only account for less than 10 percent of the global industry,
according to Eurekahedge.  “Struggling political and economic environment” in the
U.S. and  Europe  combined with lighter tax burdens in some Asian
countries will lure more money to the region’s hedge funds, the
report said.  “The Asian hedge funds industry continues to be one of the
most exciting and fast-moving sectors of the global hedge fund
industry,” Eurekahedge said in the report. “The region
continues to develop at a fast pace with new funds starting up
and employing an increasing number of different strategies and
geographical mandate.”  Long-short equities funds that bet on rising and falling
stock prices make up 44 percent of Asia’s hedge funds, followed
by multistrategy, which invests in everything from equities to
commodities, accounting for 15 percent, the report said.  Asia ex- Japan  hedge funds have had the best annualized
return since December 1999, up 13 percent, the report said.
Returns for the region, including Japan, stood at 9 percent,
while North American funds had 11 percent and European funds
returned 9 percent, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  