-- 
Latvia to Provide AirBaltic Capital on Conditions, PM Says

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-08-24T14:14:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/latvia-to-provide-capital-on-conditions-for-airbaltic-pm-says.html
The Latvian government will provide
capital for AirBaltic AS if the chief executive steps down and
the state assumes management control, said Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis.  “We have agreed to participate in ensuring the company’s
operation,” said Dombrovskis in an interview on  Latvijas Radio 
today. The government will consider either investing in the
capital along with the company’s minority shareholder or buying
out the stake it doesn’t own, he said.  AirBaltic, majority owned by the state, is controlled by
the minority stakeholder, Baltic Aviation Systems. It needs
fresh capital following a loss of about 34.2 million lati ($69.5
million) last year, the Transport Ministry said in a  statement 
on Aug. 17, and the supervisory council called for a
recapitalization of at least 60 million lati.  The carrier needs management with an “international
reputation” and Chief Executive Officer Bertolt Flick, will
have to resign as part of the investment, Dombrovskis said today
in the radio interview. The government also wants changes in the
AirBaltic shareholder agreement and to keep the Latvian capital
Riga as the base for the airline.  The shareholder agreement between Baltic Aviation Systems
and the state allows it to name the management and control the
airline.  The government has still not “made a decision” on its
role in the airline, Flick said in an e-mailed statement today.
AirBaltic’s board has received an announcement from Baltic
Aviation Systems that it has an offer to sell its stake in the
carrier, according to the statement. The government has first
rights to buy the stake, Flick said.  Latvia is scheduled to hold parliamentary elections on
Sept. 17.  The airline’s offices were raided in May amid a criminal
probe by the country’s anti-corruption bureau. The Latvian state
owns 52.6 percent of AirBaltic while Baltic Aviation Systems has
47.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  