-- 
Tauron May Pay 95% of Vattenfall Polish Deal With Debt, CFO Says

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-08-24T11:10:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/tauron-may-pay-95-of-vattenfall-polish-deal-with-debt-cfo-says.html
Tauron Polska Energia SA (TPE) , the Polish
utility that’s buying Vattenfall AB assets, may fund 95 percent
of the acquisition with bonds and plans to keep its dividend
policy and investment program after the purchase.  Tauron, which yesterday agreed to pay as much as 3.63
billion zloty ($1.26 billion) in cash for the Swedish utility’s
Polish power distribution unit, will use a maximum of 3.45
billion zloty of domestic bonds to fund the transaction, Chief
Financial Officer Krzysztof Zawadzki said in a phone interview
today.  The company agreed with underwriters of its current bond
program to increase sales by 3 billion zloty and will
“definitely” use this amount in the financing structure,
Zawadzki said. The 450 million zloty that’s already been
announced will be used in a “flexible” way, depending on the
company’s needs, he added.  Tauron,  Poland ’s second-largest power group, said yesterday
it agreed to buy Gornoslaski Zaklad Elektroenergetyczny, a power
distributor with wholesaling and wind farm units, to help it
expand in Poland’s Silesian industrial heartland. Vattenfall is
selling assets across  Europe  to focus on  Germany , the
Netherlands and  Sweden .  After the acquisition, which Katowice-based Tauron aims to
complete within six months, the company plans to keep its
current dividend policy and a 45 billion-zloty, 10-year
investment program, Zawadzki said.  The company also plans to remain in the bidding process to
buy hydroelectric plant ZEW Niedzica SA from the country’s
government, he said.  Citigroup Inc.’s Bank Handlowy SA, ING Bank Slaski,
UniCredit SpA’s Bank Pekao SA, Commerzbank AG’s BRE Bank SA, PKO
Bank Polski SA and Nordea Bank Polska SA act as underwriters for
Tauron’s bond program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  