-- 
Scandal Threatens Gillard’s Labour Party

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-08-24T05:39:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/australian-opposition-pushes-mp-for-comment-on-prostitute-claim.html
Australia’s opposition is pressing
 Labor Party  lawmaker Craig Thomson to respond to claims he
misused his union  credit card  to pay prostitutes in a scandal
that could threaten Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government.  Thomson, a former national secretary of the Health Services
Union, last night resigned as chair of the House Economics
Committee and said he continues to reject claims of wrongdoing,
according to an e-mailed statement sent by his media officer,
David Gardiner.  The coalition today lost a motion in parliament that would
have forced Thomson to comment to the lower house, and now wants
the backbench lawmaker to make a public statement on the
allegations. Should Thomson resign over the issue, forcing an
 election  in his New South Wales constituency when his party’s
popularity is at a record low, Gillard’s one-seat majority may
evaporate and the government fall.  “It is very important the matter be resolved and that this
boil for the government be lanced,” opposition Liberal-National
leader  Tony Abbott  told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio
today.  New South Wales police yesterday said they would
investigate information provided by Liberal party Senator George
Brandis, who has submitted documents relating to transactions on
a credit card belonging to Thomson when he was head of the union
before he entered parliament in 2007.  ‘Questionable Financial Transactions’  The documents Brandis sent to police and obtained by
Bloomberg outline a A$2,475 ($2,597) transaction on April 9 2005
to “sales” provided by Keywed Pty Ltd, trading as Sydney
Outcalls, and then a transaction on Aug. 16, 2007, for A$385 to
the same firm.  The Health Services Union today referred to NSW police an
investigation of its finances between 2002 and 2007, when
Thomson was the group’s national secretary. Fair Work  Australia ,
the national workplace tribunal, is already conducting an
investigation in that period over suspected misuse of funds, the
union said in an e-mailed statement.  “The HSU first became aware of questionable financial
transactions in May 2008 as a result of an exit audit conducted
following Craig Thomson’s departure,” HSU National Secretary
Kathy Jackson said in the statement. “The National Executive
has today resolved to refer the matter to the NSW police and co-
operate with any subsequent investigation.”  Support for the government fell one point to 43 percent and
the opposition’s rose the same amount to 57 percent, according
to a Newspoll survey of 1,147 people from Aug. 19 to 21
published in the Australian newspaper yesterday. Thomson holds
his Division of Dobell, north of Sydney, by 5.07 percent
according to results of the August 2010 election.  Gillard’s Labor Party holds 72 of 150 seats in the  House of
Representatives  and relies on the support of three independents
and one Greens Party member for a majority. The next national
election is due in late 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  