-- 
Australia May Make Additional Exclusions to Eligible CO2 Offsets

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-08-24T16:58:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/australia-may-make-additional-exclusions-to-eligible-co2-offsets.html
Australia  said it may introduce
further restrictions of the use of international offsets in its
carbon program planned to start in July next year.  Australia already proposed to ban use of some industrial-
gas emission offset credits, including those from projects that
cut hydrofluorocarbon-23 gas, according to an e-mailed response
to questions by the office of  Greg Combet , the nation’s climate
change minister in Canberra, the nation’s capital.  “Further restrictions on the use of international permits
may be added on the advice of the Climate Change Authority, a
new independent body that will be established to advise the
government on key aspects of the carbon-price mechanism,”
according to the statement.  Other exclusions already flagged include credits from
nuclear-energy projects, large-scale hydro-electric plants that
are not consistent with World Commission on Dams criteria
adopted by the European Union, as well as temporary Certified
Emission Reductions, it said.  Credits from so-called HFC-23 gas projects have made up
more than half of supply in the  United Nations ’ main offset
program, the world’s largest. The EU has banned them for use in
its cap-and-trade program starting May 2013.  Australian demand for international offsets in the five
years through June 2020 will be about 330 million metric tons,
or an average 66 million a year, Marisa Beck, an analyst for
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London, forecast on Aug. 17.  China  may agree to sell greenhouse gas offsets to
Australia, as EU factories and power stations are prevented from
buying some credits from the most populous nation, Norton Rose
LLP said Aug. 16.  Australian allowance prices will probably track UN
Certified Emission Reduction credits when the country’s
emissions-trading system begins in July 2015, because emitters
may be able to use UN offsets for 50 percent of their
compliance, according to rules of the proposed program. In the
EU polluters won’t be able to use offsets from China after 2013
unless projects are registered by the end of 2012 according to
that system’s rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  