-- 
Australia Poised to Become First to Ban Tobacco Package Logos

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-08-25T02:54:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/australia-s-lower-house-passes-plain-tobacco-packaging-laws.html
Australia  is poised to become the
first nation to require tobacco products to be sold in plain
packages, a move that could see other countries follow suit and
crimp earnings of companies like British American Tobacco Plc.  The laws, passed by the lower house yesterday and due in
the Senate in September, will ban logos and color variations on
cigarette packages. Packets will have to be olive green and
carry health warnings within six months from Jan 1, 2012.  “Other countries will follow,” said Anne Jackson, chief
executive of  Ash Australia , a non-profit lobby group funded by
Cancer Council Australia and the Heart Foundation. “This is a
light shining the way for others to do the same and many
countries are already considering it.”  Health Minister Nicola Roxon announced the move last April,
along with a 25 percent tobacco tax increase and a A$85 million
(A$89 million) advertising campaign to combat smoking, which the
government says kills 15,000 Australians each year. Companies
have since introduced their own advertising campaigns and legal
actions against the move.  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  this week lost an appeal for
the release of Australian government documents the company said
would help it fight the law. The company plans to ask the
Australian High Court to review the ruling.  The company will next take its case to the Parliamentary
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee, with a hearing
scheduled for Sept. 13, Scott McIntyre, a spokesman for the
tobacco company, said today in a phone interview. So far the
focus has been on the health aspect of the legislation, he said.  Legal Implications  “There are a lot of issues outside of health that have to
be looked at,” McIntyre said. “There are serious repercussions
here. The tobacco company will pursue the case in courts,
seeking billions of dollars in damages, if the law is enacted.”  Smoking costs Australia about A$31 billion per year in
health and workplace costs, according to the government. With
15.1 percent of the population aged 14 or over smoking daily, it
is the country’s top drug and preventable health issue, the
government says.  “There isn’t any safe amount of tobacco you can smoke,”
Roxon told Channel Ten television today. “It will kill you
eventually and we obviously want to make sure the message is
loud and clear.”  The  tobacco companies  say the bill is a breach of the
Australian Constitution, as plain packaging exceeds the
Commonwealth’s acquisition powers. They said they would seek
damages for losing the right to use their trademarks, which they
claim the government is seizing, illegally.  Brand Identification Questions  “This would clearly undermine the value of manufacturers’
trademarks and destroy the goodwill built up over many years in
consumer brands,” British American Tobacco said in a June 6
submission to the government. “Plain packaging will frustrate
brand identification and consumer choice, making smuggled
branded product more acceptable to consumers.”  Australia’s top court has never addressed the question of
whether banning the use of trademarks amounts to an acquisition
by the government, George Williams, a constitutional law
professor at the University of New South Wales in Sydney, said.  “The tobacco companies have a hard road ahead,” Williams
said. “They’re quite likely to lose.”  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) , the world’s biggest
publicly traded tobacco company, said the Australian law also
violates a 1994 treaty with  Hong Kong  that prohibits the forced
removal of trademarks.  Legal Strategies Considered  “It is disappointing that the  House of Representatives  has
approved plain packaging even though the Government admits there
is no evidence that the policy will be effective at reducing
smoking,” Philip Morris said in a statement today in response
to the passage in the lower house.  The tobacco companies plan to argue the law is a breach of
the  World Trade Organization ’s Trade Related Aspects of
Intellectual Property Rights, or TRIPS.  According to TRIPS, the use of a trade mark in the course
of trade “shall not be unjustifiably encumbered by special
requirements.” The tobacco companies say the Australian law
breaches that article.  “As a result of the Government’s actions,  Philip Morris 
has little option but to pursue our claim for substantial
compensation through international arbitration against Australia
and to also consider legal claims under domestic Australian
law,” Philip Morris said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  