-- 
Jack Layton’s Death Makes Economy Biggest Hurdle for Canada’s Harper

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-08-24T15:28:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/layton-s-death-makes-economy-biggest-hurdle-for-canada-s-harper.html
The death of Canadian opposition
leader  Jack Layton  means the biggest threat to Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper ’s agenda of lower taxes and spending may come
from a wobbly global economy, not his political rivals in
Parliament.  Layton, who died Aug. 22 in Toronto at 61 after battling
cancer, was to be Harper’s biggest rival when Canada’s
parliament returned Sept. 19. Layton led his pro-labor  New
Democratic Party  to the most  number of seats  in its 50-year
history in May 2 elections, vaulting the NDP past the  Liberal
Party  to become the country’s biggest opposition party.  The NDP plans a convention next year to select Layton’s
permanent replacement, and Liberal lawmaker Bob Rae has been
leading his party on an interim basis since former leader
 Michael Ignatieff  quit following the Liberals’ worst-ever
election showing. With the country’s biggest opposition parties
likely preoccupied, the greatest constraint on Harper’s plans
may be the risk of Canada being sideswiped by a global economic
slowdown once again.  “For some it feels like 2008 all over again,” said Goldy
Hyder, a general manager with lobbying firm Hill & Knowlton
Canada who was an aide to former Conservative Prime Minister Joe
Clark. “It opens a whole can of worms here of: Do you go down
the road of another stimulus package?”  Tax Breaks  During the campaign, Harper  promised  tax breaks once the
government eliminated its record deficit, including one that
would let parents with children under 18 split their income to
lower their taxes. A review of  government spending  would find
C$4 billion ($4.04 billion) in annual savings, the Conservatives
said, allowing a return to balanced budgets by the fiscal year
beginning April 2014.  Economists have been shaving their forecasts for growth
after reports over the past month showed Canada’s economy
weakening from refinery shutdowns and supply disruptions related
to natural disasters in  Japan , giving Finance Minister Jim Flaherty less margin for error in his fiscal projections.  At an appearance before lawmakers on the House of Commons
Finance Committee last week, Flaherty said his plans remain
valid, adding he would “do what is needed” to protect jobs and
the economy if the global economy deteriorated “in a dramatic
way.” He also said opposition calls for major new spending
would be “precisely the wrong direction” for  Canada .  Hyder said the government will face pressure to deal with
shorter-term economic worries, instead of tackling longer-term
challenges such as Canada’s relatively low productivity
performance and the increasing demands of an aging population.  Not ‘Thinking Big’  Canadians aren’t “thinking big,” Hyder said. “They’re
thinking much more close to home -- ‘I need a job, I need to be
able to afford a roof over my head.’”  “Those are the things on the minds of Canadians, and I
think the government is in part reflecting the current thinking
of the electorate,” Hyder said.  Canada has the lowest deficits among Group of Seven
nations, and its currency has been the strongest in the G-7
since the end of 2008.  Government bonds  have returned 6.9
percent over the year to date through Aug. 22, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data, compared with a 4.7 percent
average for the G-7. Canada’s benchmark S&P/TSX Composite Index
has declined 3.5 percent since June 16, compared with a 6.6
percent loss for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Set the Agenda  While the Conservatives won a majority of seats in the
election and can pass legislation without the support of other
parties, the opposition can still set the agenda in parliament’s
question period, forcing the government to defend unpopular
measures and highlighting alternatives.  Before this year’s election, Layton proposed measures that
were adopted in part by the ruling Conservatives in their
election platform, including a plan to give tax breaks for home
owners who made their houses more energy efficient, and
incentives for doctors to serve rural areas.  Layton, who took over as NDP leader in 2003, led the party
to increased seat totals in elections in 2004, 2006 and 2008.
The NDP’s effectiveness improved greatly under the charismatic
Layton, said Richard Nimijean, a political scientist at  Carleton
University  in Ottawa, who credited him for modernizing the
party’s fundraising and vote-tracking capabilities.  “The NDP was in terrible shape when he took over,”
Nimijean said in a phone interview. “For the party to go ahead,
it’s about who can continue that connection that’s been made.”  Lying in State  Layton’s body arrived on Parliament Hill today, carried by
a Royal Canadian Mounted Police honor guard, where it will lie
in state outside the House of Commons. The body will return to
Toronto tomorrow for further public visitation at  city hall . A
state funeral will take place Aug. 27 at  Roy Thomson Hall , a
concert hall in Toronto that seats more than 2,500. Canada’s
ambassador to the U.S., Gary Doer, will be one of the
pallbearers, the Globe and Mail newspaper reported, along with
Alexa McDonough, who Layton succeeded as NDP leader in 2003.   Nycole Turmel, who was appointed interim NDP leader in July
after Layton announced he was taking a medical leave of absence,
will remain in that post until a leadership convention early in
2012. Deputy party leaders  Thomas Mulcair  of  Quebec , who was
once a former provincial cabinet minister, and Libby Davies of
British Columbia have been mentioned in newspaper articles as
potential successors.  While the NDP and Liberals both struggle to find new
leaders, opposition lawmakers say they won’t let Harper have a
free pass. Liberal  Ralph Goodale  said in an interview in
Bloomberg’s Ottawa bureau that while Harper is “certainly in a
powerful position,” that doesn’t mean the opposition parties
are toothless.  Transition Period  “The country continues to need governance, and this is a
period of transition undoubtedly, but that doesn’t mean the
opposition abandons the field,” said Goodale, who served as
finance minister between 2003 and 2006.  Bob Plamondon, who has written on the history of the
conservative movement in Canada, said he doesn’t think Layton’s
death will alter the government’s policy planning. Rather, it
raises the odds that the two leaderless parties might join
forces, providing a bigger challenge to the Conservatives at the
next election, expected in 2015.  “If there is a worry for Harper it is that in the post-
Layton era the possibility of a Liberal-NDP merger will get
another look,” Plamondon said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 