-- 
Bank of China Posts Record First-Half Profit, Beating Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-08-25T03:35:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/bank-of-china-posts-record-first-half-profit-beating-analysts-estimates.html
Bank of  China  Ltd., the nation’s
third-largest lender by assets, said first-half profit jumped 28
percent to a record while bad debts dropped amid rising scrutiny
of property loans and credit to local governments.  Net income rose to 66.5 billion yuan ($10.4 billion) from
52 billion yuan a year earlier, the Beijing-based company said
in a Hong Kong stock exchange statement yesterday. Profit was in
line with the 65.8 billion yuan median estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Bank of China  and its Hong Kong unit
rose today.  The state-run bank set aside more funds for defaults after
China tightened requirements on property loans and credit to
local governments. The stock is the worst performer among the
nation’s five biggest lenders this year on concern that bad
debts may rise after the bank’s credit growth outpaced that of
larger rivals over the last two years.  “The sell-off in Chinese banks has been overdone,” Ivan Li, deputy head of Hong Kong research at Kim Eng Securities Hong
Kong Ltd., said by telephone today. “Credit quality will
deteriorate but situations might not be as bad as the share
price has reflected.”  The lender’s total loans expanded 72 percent over the two
years ending December 2010 -- outpacing the 49 percent credit
growth at bigger rivals Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  -- as the government
spurred economic growth with a record $2.7 trillion credit boom.  Beats HSBC  Bank of China’s six-month earnings surpassed that of  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s most profitable bank, for a seventh time.
London-based HSBC reported first-half net income of $9.22
billion on Aug. 1.  The Chinese bank’s outstanding advances climbed 9.8 percent
in the first half to 6.2 trillion yuan from 5.66 trillion yuan
at 2010 end. Its non-performing loans as a percentage of the
total shrank to 1 percent from 1.1 percent in December.  “We are quite confident about the outlook for our bad
loans,” President Li Lihui told reporters in Beijing yesterday.
“Bank of China’s non-performing loan ratio won’t rise
significantly in the second half of this year or next year.”  The lender’s BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd. unit said first-
half net income rose 67 percent to a record HK$12 billion ($1.5
billion), beating the HK$10.4 billion average of seven estimates
compiled by Bloomberg News.  BOC Shares Gain  Shares of Bank of China, heading for its sixth year of
record annual profit, have dropped 26 percent in Hong Kong this
year, outpacing declines in ICBC, Construction Bank,
Agricultural  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  and Bank of Communications Co.  The stock climbed 1.33 percent to HK$3.05 as of 11:03 a.m.
local time. BOC Hong Kong advanced the most in more than two
years, gaining 6.6 percent to HK$20.80. The Hong Kong unit is
the best performing member of  Hang Seng Finance Index (HSF)  so far
today.  China has tightened lending requirements, introduced
property curbs and raised  interest rates  to tame inflation and
address persistent concerns that local governments’ $1.7
trillion in liabilities may become the biggest contributor to
bad debts and trigger the nation’s third banking bailout in less
than two decades.  Provisions Increased  The banking regulator told lenders they haven’t set aside
sufficient funds to cover losses on loans to local governments
and ordered them to accelerate debt collection, a person with
knowledge of the matter said in July. As much of 30 percent of
the credit may sour,  Standard & Poor’s  has estimated, if
infrastructure projects financed by the borrowings and land
sales fail to generate adequate  cash flow .  Bank of China increased funds set aside against potential
bad debts to 12.8 billion yuan in the first half of the year,
boosting its provision coverage ratio to 217.3 percent of non-
performing loans from 196.7 percent a year earlier. The bank’s
provisions in the second half will be similar to the first half,
Li said yesterday.  The lender, which had 531.5 billion yuan in outstanding
loans to local governments as of June 30, doesn’t want to
increase such debt, Li said. The loans had a bad debt ratio of
0.17 percent, he said.  Net interest income, or the difference between revenue from
lending and deposit costs, climbed 20 percent to 110 billion
yuan from a year earlier, Bank of China said yesterday. Net fee
and commission income, which includes revenue from credit cards
and distribution of insurance policies, increased 24 percent to
35 billion yuan.  Net interest margin, a measure of lending profitability,
widened to 2.11 percent from 2.04 percent a year earlier.  Bank of China’s second-quarter profit jumped 28 percent to
33.1 billion yuan from 25.8 billion yuan a year earlier,
according to figures derived by subtracting first-quarter
results from first-half profit reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  