-- 
Bank Default Swaps at Record High as Fed Boost Bets Evaporate

-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 
2011-08-24T16:42:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/bank-credit-default-swaps-reach-record-high-as-fed-boost-bets-evaporate.html
Credit-default swaps insuring bank
debt rose to a record in  Europe  as investors pared bets the
Federal Reserve will pledge a third round of stimulus measures
to boost the U.S. economy.  The cost of contracts on the Markit iTraxx Financial Index
of swaps linked to senior debt of 25 banks and insurers climbed
4 basis points to 255, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 5:30
p.m. in London. The subordinated index was up 15 at an all-time
high of 460, based on closing prices.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s meeting this week with
central bankers in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , triggered speculation
he may announce further so-called quantitative easing as the
global economy slows. German  business confidence  fell to its
lowest in more than a year in August as Europe’s debt crisis
damped the outlook for growth.  “It seems unlikely that Bernanke is going to announce
additional QE in the meeting on Friday,” said Sonam Joshi, a
credit strategist at UBS AG In  London . “He may bring a short-
term relief rally by providing a positive outlook on the
economy, but it’s unlikely to be sustainable as the market is
looking for something more concrete.”  Measures of stress in short-term credit markets are rising.
Interest-rate swap spreads climbed to the highest level in 13
months, a sign of increasing financial credit risk, and cross-
currency basis swaps indicate more demand for dollar-based
funding from Europe’s financial institutions. The London
interbank offered rate, a benchmark for more than $350 trillion
of financial products worldwide, has reached a one-year high
following 22 straight days of gains.  Business Climate  The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 108.7
in August from 112.9 in July. That’s the lowest since June 2010.
Economists forecast a decline to 111, according to the median
prediction of 37 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
index reached a record high of 115.4 in February.  The cost of insuring company debt is also increasing, with
the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of default swaps on 40
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings rising 24 basis
points to 720.5, according to JPMorgan, the highest since July
2009. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose 7 basis points to 172.5 basis
points.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps linked
to 15 governments was little changed at 302 basis points.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($14.4 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 Hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  