-- 
Bank of Ireland Said to Plan Losses on Bond Group Spared in June

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-08-24T08:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/bank-of-ireland-said-to-plan-losses-on-bond-group-spared-in-june.html
Bank of Ireland Plc will this week
revive plans to impose losses on a group of junior bondholders
spared from an earlier offer, according to two people with
knowledge of the situation.  The Dublin-based lender on June 28 scrapped an offer to
swap 75 million pounds ($126.7 million) of 13.375 percent
perpetual unsecured bonds for cash or equity after some owners
of the securities had “procedural difficulties.” The bank
plans to impose similar losses to the original offer, which was
at a discount of as much as 80 percent, according to the people,
who declined to be identified as the matter is private. The
offer may be made as soon as today, one of the people said.  The lender withdrew its offer as it faced a court challenge
from an investor contesting the exchange of the securities,
originally sold by the Bristol & West Building Society in 1991.
They became obligations of Ireland’s biggest bank when it bought
the former mutual lender for 600 million pounds in 1997. The
bank said June 28 it had resolved the legal challenge.  Some holders of the notes didn’t hold the minimum amount
required to swap them for new securities rather than cash,
according to Mark Taber, who coordinated the bondholder campaign
against Bank of Ireland. The original offer applied an 80
percent discount on bonds exchanged for cash, and 60 percent for
those swapped for equity.  Bank of Ireland Chief Executive Officer Richie Boucher said
on Aug. 10 that the company plans to make a new offer to holders
of the Bristol & West bonds “relatively quickly.”  Bank of Ireland spokesman Dan Loughrey declined to comment
on any new offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  