-- 
Cerberus’s Bawag Sees 2011 Profit Increase After First-Half Drop

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-08-24T11:25:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/bawag-first-half-profit-drops-19-as-trading-income-tumbles.html
Bawag PSK Bank, the Austrian lender
controlled by Cerberus Capital Management LP, aims to exceed
last year’s profit in 2011 as higher revenue and lower bad debt
charges will offset a decline in trading income.  “We are certainly targeting again” to increase net income
this year, Chief Executive Officer Byron Haynes told journalists
in Vienna today. The main reason for the increase will be rising
income from lending, fees and commissions, while “we want to
get away from the volatility of trading income,” Haynes said.  Net income in the six months ended June 30 fell 19 percent
to 78.5 million euros ($114 million), Bawag said in a statement
today. Revenue from lending, fees and commissions expanded by
4.6 percent, while provisions for bad debt narrowed by 29
percent. That was more than offset by a 55 percent decline in
trading income, which was helped last year by gains from asset
sales. Bawag also paid 10.2 million-euro bank levy to  Austria  in
the period.  Cerberus bought Bawag for 3.2 billion euros in 2006 after
the bank almost collapsed. Three years later, the lender
received 550 million euros in state capital under Austria’s bank
stabilization program, while Cerberus injected 205 million
euros. The New York-based private-equity firm hasn’t received
any dividend payment since it bought the bank, and Bawag isn’t
allowed to pay any until at least 2012, while it holds the state
capital. Bawag last year returned to profit for the first time
since 2006, reporting net income of 121.8 million euros.  State Capital  Including the state capital, Bawag’s  Tier 1 capital  ratio,
a measure of financial strength, was 9.5 percent by June 30.
Bawag restated the ratio it had at the end of last year to 8.9
percent, following the market convention for Tier 1 capital.
Using Bawag’s own definition, the ratio had been reported as 9.9
percent earlier. Haynes reiterated that he has no plans to repay
the state aid until his capital buffer has strengthened. The
state capital makes up about a fourth of Bawag’s 2.2 billion
euros in Tier 1 capital.  Haynes, who last year discussed a merger of Bawag with
Austria’s fourth-largest bank,  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) ,
said he didn’t plan currently to revive those collapsed talks,
or to discuss other bank purchases in Austria. Cerberus also has
no intention to sell Bawag “at this point in time,” Haynes
added.  Nationalized Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG has put
its Austrian business up for sale this year. Kommunalkredit
Austria AG, the other lender bailed out by Austria, will be
privatized eventually, according to the  state aid approval  by
the European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  