-- 
Beijing Olympics Bill Surges With $2.5 Billion of Bonds Due: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-25T09:48:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/beijing-olympics-bill-surges-with-2-5-billion-of-bonds-due-china-credit.html
Beijing’s state-owned infrastructure
companies face a record amount of bonds maturing next year as
 China ’s capital city pays the bills for the $70 billion 2008
Olympic Games.  Fifteen local government financing units based in Beijing
must pay 16.2 billion yuan ($2.5 billion) next year plus
interest to investors, breaking last year’s record 12 billion
yuan, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A further 11.6
billion yuan matures in 2013 and 37.6 billion yuan in 2014.  The debt is coming due as government efforts to control
inflation cause corporate borrowing costs in China to rise to a
three-year high of 5.92 percent this month, double the rate in
the U.S. How Beijing deals with the bill, which dwarfs the
estimated $15.3 billion budget for next year’s London Games, may
set a pattern for more than 10,000 local-government financing
vehicles across China with about 10 trillion yuan of debt.  “The Olympics was a spectacular event for China, but now
Beijing has to deal with the hangover because of high borrowing
to finance the event,” said Victor Shih, a professor at
Northwestern University in Evanston,  Illinois  who analyzes
China’s local government finances. “Bond yields are heading up,
so refinancing will be much more costly.”  The yield top-rated companies must pay on 10-year bonds has
risen 74 basis points, or 0.74 percentage point, this year to
5.88 percent and touched 5.92 percent on Aug. 4, according to
Chinabond data. Borrowing costs for similarly ranked U.S.
companies have dropped 84 basis points to 3.12 percent in the
same period, Bloomberg data show.  Bad Loans  Concerns are increasing that local government financing
units across China will struggle to pay their debts that total
10.7 trillion yuan, with 80 percent coming from banks, according
to National Audit Office data published on June 27.  Standard & Poor’s  estimates that as much as 30 percent of
China’s lending to local governments may go sour, after a two-
year lending boom that drove the nation’s economic-stimulus
program by pumping money into roads, highways and railways.
Standard Charted Plc said in July 18 report that the lending may
end in a wave of bad debts and prompt the nation’s third banking
bailout in less than two decades.  Beijing Infrastructure Investment Co., a state-owned
company that helped build the city’s subway system including a
line to the Olympic area, paid a coupon of 3.78 percent on 2
billion yuan of one-year notes in June 2007, Bloomberg data
show. The company paid 4.35 percent on 4 billion yuan of
similar-maturity bonds in March.  ‘Severe Strain’  Beijing, a city of 19.6 million people, had total debts of
374.5 billion yuan at the end of 2010, 61.7 percent of which the
central government has a responsibility to repay, the  People’s
Daily  reported on July 21, citing the head of the city’s audit
office. That compares with 303.3 billion yuan for the northeast
province of Jilin, which has 27.4 million people, according to
Caixin magazine.  The capital’s infrastructure financing units have also
signed lines of credit worth over 500 billion yuan with China’s
state-owned banks, according to data from their prospectuses.  “Beijing runs perennial budget deficits like most other
cities in China, which means any sizable bond redemption would
put a severe strain on the city’s budget,” Shih said by e-mail.
Authorities will “need to be very inventive in repaying the
coming waves of redemptions.”  Bird’s Nest  Gui Guan, an official at Beijing’s Finance Bureau, said the
companies building the Olympics-related infrastructure were
“commercial” and questions should be directed to them. He
directed Bloomberg News to a National Audit Office report from
2009, which showed that the Beijing  Olympic Games  were
profitable, with revenue exceeding what it said was a total cost
of 19.3 billion yuan.  Beijing Urban Construction Investment & Development Co.
raised 500 million yuan in November 2007 to help finance the
Bird’s Nest national stadium, the Olympic Village and the
Olympic Park, according to the prospectus for the bond.  The spread on the company’s 6.08 percent notes maturing in
2014 over government debt widened to a record 253 basis points
on Aug. 11, from 167 at the end of 2010, and was last at 251,
according to Chinabond prices.  Calls to Beijing Urban Construction’s offices yesterday
seeking comment on the company’s debt weren’t answered.  Beijing Infrastructure, which said in a December 2004 bond
prospectus that the Olympics “ushered in an unprecedented
opportunity for rail construction,” has 27 billion yuan of
bonds outstanding. The company has borrowed more than 61.4
billion yuan from 18 banks, with another 146.2 billion yuan in
unused lines of credit as of Sept. 30, 2010, according to a
prospectus issued in April.  City Subsidies  Repeated calls to Beijing Infrastructure’s offices seeking
comment on the company’s refinancing plans went unanswered.  Beijing Capital Highway Development Group Co., a road
builder, said in a prospectus issued last week that its
“ability to pay its debts was weak” and that it was counting
on subsidies from the city government to stay solvent. The
company has 9.3 billion yuan of bonds outstanding and had
borrowed 39.5 billion yuan from banks, including 18.8 billion
yuan from Industrial & Commercial Bank of China, as of the end
of last year, according to the prospectus.  Beijing Capital Highway wrote in faxed response to
questions “our credit is rated AAA and we are totally
solvent.”  Sovereign Risk  The cost of insuring China’s sovereign bonds against non-
payment has risen 55 basis points this year to 123 basis points,
the highest since May 2009, according to five-year credit-
default swaps provided by CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Rising default swaps suggest deteriorating
perceptions of creditworthiness and declines show improvement.  Contracts on  Greece , which spent more than 11 billion euros
($15.9 billion) to host the 2004 Olympics have risen 1,240 basis
points to 2,250 in the same period. Greece’s debt is 143 percent
of gross domestic product, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ratio for China is about 71 percent,  Standard
Chartered  said in a June 29 report.  Credit-default swaps on the U.K., where the London Games
start on July 27, have risen 10.5 to 84 in the same period, CMA
prices show.  Curbing Inflation  “Given the low current indebtedness of the Chinese
sovereign we think they have a large capacity to absorb” any
losses on local government debt “as and when they occur in a
manner that we think is consistent with their current rating,”
 David Beers , global head of sovereign and international public
finance ratings at S&P, said at a briefing for reporters in
Beijing on Aug. 22. S&P rates the country AA-, its fourth-
highest investment grade.  China has raised  interest rates  five times since October
and ordered banks to increase the level of reserves they set
aside six times this year to curb inflation that accelerated to
a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July.  The yuan declined 0.02 percent to close at 6.3900 per
dollar in  Shanghai  today, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. It touched 6.3820 on Aug. 16, the
strongest level since the country unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993.  China’s 10-year government bond yielded 3.951 percent
yesterday. That compares with 2.266 percent for the U.S. and
8.217 percent for  India . The extra yield investors demand to own
10-year corporate notes in China instead of  government
securities  reached a record 198 basis points on Aug. 15 and was
last at 193.  Asset Stripping  The last two  Summer Olympics  left the host cities with
underutilized facilities. The Bird’s Nest stadium is used
occasionally as a sports venue, hosting AC Milan versus  Inter
Milan  on Aug. 6 and the Beijing International Equestrian Grand
Prix in May. Athens has leased out just six of the 22 venues
used in the 2004 Games, according to former Finance Minister
 George Papaconstantinou .  Investors “should pay close attention” to what strategy
Beijing takes as it tackles its debt burden, according to
 Northwestern University ’s Shih.  It may involve “stripping cash-generating assets from the
city’s other state-owned enterprises to help restructure the
debt,” he said. “But when this is done, people continue to
borrow and the pool of illiquid loans gets larger and more
unknown.”  ‘Old Wine’  China Chengxin International Credit Rating Co. put two
bonds sold by financing vehicles in southern Yunnan province on
its watch list last month after the announcement of a planned
asset transfer. Sichuan Expressway Construction & Development
Corp. was cited for violating rules in June after it transferred
its stake in Sichuan Expressway Co. to another company.  The central government is working on a plan to allow local
authorities to sell debt themselves, rather than having to use
financing vehicles, starting with a 7.1 billion yuan quota for
Shanghai and 6.9 billion yuan for Guangdong, excluding Shenzhen,
Caixin magazine reported Aug. 22.  In the meantime, some of Beijing’s state-owned
infrastructure companies are selling more bonds to pay off bank
loans. Beijing Capital Co. said in its April prospectus that
half of the 1.2 billion yuan it was seeking to raise would be
used to retire bank debt.  “In principle there is nothing wrong with refinancing as
long as you realize that it is old wine in new bottles, and the
old wine hasn’t changed,” said Patrick Chovanec, a professor at
Tsinghua University’s School of Economics and Management in
Beijing. “If it was not a good loan to begin with it is not
going to become a good bond.”  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  