-- 
Best Dividend Payouts Since 2009 Lure UBS to Brazil, South African Stocks

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-08-25T11:28:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/best-dividend-payouts-since-2009-lure-ubs-to-brazil-south-african-stocks.html
Stocks in  Brazil  and South Africa
are the “best in class” for emerging-market investors seeking
dividends after yields climbed to the highest levels since 2009,
according to UBS AG.  This year’s 22 percent drop in Brazil’s Bovespa index has
lifted its dividend yield to 4.6 percent, the highest since
February 2009, while the yield on the FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares
Index jumped to 2.8 percent from 2.3 percent at the start of
2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Dividends in South Africa
may grow at a 17 percent rate during the next three years,
according to the data.  Increasing payouts, which account for about 33 percent of
emerging-market equity returns, may attract investors to phone
companies and utilities as the global economy slows and yields
on fixed-income securities decline, according to Jennifer Delaney, an emerging-market analyst at UBS in  New York . Dividend
yields in Brazil are almost twice the 2.3 percent rate in  Russia 
and compare with yields of less than 2 percent in  India  and
 South Korea , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We haven’t seen anywhere near as much an increase in
dividends as we think we can get,” Delaney said in a phone
interview on Aug. 22.  Light SA (LIGT3) , which produces electricity in Rio de Janeiro, has
a dividend yield of 7.5 percent based on the average of 11
analysts’ estimates for 2011 payouts. The stock trades at 9.8
times earnings forecasts, compared with an average of 15 times
for Latin American utilities, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Dividend Growth  Dividends in Brazil have been supported by regulations that
require companies to pay out a minimum 25 percent of net
earnings to shareholders, according to Nick Robinson, head of
Brazilian equities at Aberdeen Asset Management in  Sao Paulo .  “If you talk about the market in broad terms, now is a
decent opportunity to get into companies at pretty decent
valuation levels,” Robinson said in an Aug. 16 interview.  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest mobile-phone operator, may
boost its annual per-share payout by 27 percent next year,
according to the average of 14 analyst estimates. The stock is
yielding 5 percent based on its estimated 2011 distribution,
compared with 3.9 percent for regional peers, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. MTN said on Aug. 17 it plans to pay out 65
percent of earnings to shareholders.  Bank Payouts  MTN shares climbed 0.2 percent at 1:18 p.m. in
Johannesburg, while the FTSE/JSE Africa index increased 0.7
percent. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.1 percent.  South African banks have refrained from boosting payouts on
concern they may need to conserve cash to meet new  capital
requirements  from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ,
according to Neville Chester, the Cape Town-based manager of
Coronation Fund Managers Top 20 Fund, which has about 7.5
billion rand ($1.04 billion) in assets under management.  Standard Bank Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s largest lender, kept its
dividend unchanged for the six months to June 30 even as profits
rose 12 percent during the period. Chief Executive Officer Jacko Maree said the Johannesburg-based bank will give more clarity on
dividends when it announces full-year results in March 2012.  “Until there is regulatory certainty they are unlikely
to” pay higher dividends, Chester said. “They don’t want to
upset the regulators and also don’t want to pay out dividends
now and ask for more capital in a year or two.”  Relative Returns  Dividend yields on the broader South African market are
still rising relative to  government bonds . The FTSE/JSE Africa
index has retreated 7.8 percent this year, pushing up its yield
to the highest since June 2009 relative to government’s notes
due 2015, which yield 6.65 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The Bovespa’s payout is the highest on a monthly basis
since at least 2002 versus the return on local-currency
government bonds, which yield 11.4 percent, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s GBI-EM Index.  Profits for companies in the South African benchmark equity
index will probably climb 13 percent next year, while earnings
in Brazil’s Bovespa grow 12 percent, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  South Africa ’s economy may
expand 3.8 percent in 2012 while Brazil’s is poised to grow
about 4.1 percent, according to April estimates from the
Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .  Companies “are still seeing growth opportunities,” said
Delaney at UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest lender. “But on top of
that, even after growth, there is still plenty of profit that
can be paid back to shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 