-- 
BHP Billiton CEO Says May Add Shale Gas Assets Outside U.S.

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-08-24T09:17:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/bhp-s-ceo-says-looking-at-buying-more-shale-gas-outside-the-u-s-.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, may expand in shale gas outside the U.S.
following the $12.1 billion deal to buy  Petrohawk Energy Corp. (HK) 
and the purchase of assets from  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)   “From a medium and long-term strategy, our view is that
shale gas will play into the world’s total energy mix and it
would be our anticipation that over time we hope to participate
in other areas of the world as well,” Chief Executive Officer
 Marius Kloppers  said today on a call with reporters.  BHP moved into U.S. shale gas this year with the Petrohawk
transaction, the Melbourne-based company’s biggest acquisition,
and the $4.75 billion purchase of Chesapeake’s Fayetteville
shale assets. The Petrohawk purchase makes the company the
seventh-biggest independent oil and gas company in the world in
total resources, the company said in July.  BHP, Australia’s largest oil producer, also would consider
expansion in liquefied natural gas, Kloppers said after the
company reported a 38 percent gain in full-year petroleum
earnings and a 22 percent increase in oil and gas sales.  “Our ambition is unchanged -- to have many tools in the
toolkit,” Kloppers said today on a call with analysts. “We put
another tool in with Petrohawk in terms of unconventional gas,
and we will build on that.”  BHP is a partner in  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ’s proposed
Browse LNG project in Western Australia. The company also has
said a potential LNG venture with Exxon Mobil Corp. relying on
the Scarborough and Thebe fields off northwest Australia may
cost as much as $20 billion to develop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  