-- 
BHP Second-Half Profit Climbs to a Record on Copper, Iron, Coal Price Rise

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-08-24T16:42:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/bhp-billiton-ltd-reports-full-year-profit-of-23-6-billion.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the biggest
mining company, said fiscal second-half profit rose to a record,
beating analyst estimates, after prices of copper, iron ore and
coal reached all-time highs because of demand from  China .  Net income climbed to $13.1 billion in the six months
through June from $6.6 billion a year earlier, spokeswoman Kelly Quirke said today from Melbourne. That compares with the $11.6
billion average estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  BHP joins Vale SA in reporting record results and boosting
dividends, after iron-ore earnings more than doubled and
petroleum profit jumped 38 percent. Chief Executive Officer
 Marius Kloppers  said today he’s confident in the outlook for
commodities and plans to raise  capital spending  by more than
half to $20 billion this fiscal year.  “ Iron ore  showed a decent gain as iron-ore prices have
been very strong,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional dealer
at IG Markets in Melbourne. “Their petroleum division performed
above expectations.”  BHP gained 2.3 percent to 1,932.5 pence at the 4:30 p.m.
close in  London . It declared a final dividend of 55 cents a
share, a 22 percent increase on last year, and more than the 50-
cent estimate from UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG. The company,
which completed a $10 billion buyback program six months ahead
of schedule in June, didn’t start a new program as sought by
BlackRock Inc., its biggest shareholder.  No Buyback  “I don’t think the market will be disappointed with no
news of a buyback,” said IG Market’s Weston.  Growth in Chinese steel production and high prices for
steelmaking materials underpinned a 62 percent gain in full-year
underlying earnings before interest and tax of $32 billion, BHP
said. The underlying EBIT margin increased to 47 percent and
sales rose 36 percent to $72 billion, it said.  “We expect robust demand in the short-and-medium term,
supported by commodities-intensive emerging economic growth,”
the company said in a statement. “A more positive demand
dynamic remains a distinct possibility should policy be enacted
to further stimulate growth in the developed world.”  Fourth-quarter iron-ore output rose 14 percent, driving an
11th straight annual production record, the company said last
month. Prices of the steelmaking ingredient are set to stay at
“elevated” levels until at least 2015 because of short supply,
forecaster Wood Mackenzie Ltd. said in July.  ‘Very Bullish’  “Iron ore, coal are still holding on to the highs that
we’ve seen earlier in the year and so profitability for the
mining companies has really been very strong,” Catherine Raw,
who helps manage BlackRock’s $17 billion World Mining Fund, told
 Andrea Catherwood  yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “Last
Word” program. “The profit margins and the earnings growth
through production growth that we’re seeing from the mining
companies make us actually very bullish.”  China will maintain annual growth of 7 percent to 9
percent, bolstering consumption of the commodities produced by
BHP, Chairman Jac Nasser said Aug. 10. The cost of hauling iron
ore, coal and other dry bulk commodities by sea jumped to a
four-month high this week on strengthening Chinese demand.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended investors buy
commodities earlier this month, saying growth in emerging
economies is enough to tighten supplies. The broker joined
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley in forecasting gains in
commodity prices.  Cost Challenge  Mining companies are battling rising wage costs, raw-
material expenses and energy bills as well as currency gains in
producing countries, with Rio Tinto Group reporting this month
that foreign-exchange movements cut underlying earnings in the
first half by $810 million. BHP, which said the weak dollar
reduced full-year underlying EBIT by $2.5 billion, also expects
more cost pressures, Kloppers said today on a conference call.  “Rising costs are going to be a feature for all mining
companies, that’s just where we are in the cycle,” Prasad Patkar, who helps manage the equivalent of $1.7 billion at
Sydney-based Platypus Asset Management Ltd., said by phone.  Higher costs, excluding the impact of a weaker dollar and
inflation, crimped underlying EBIT by $1.2 billion, BHP said.
High commodity prices, tight labor and raw-materials markets
were a “challenge” for all operators, the company said.  Net income in the 12 months to June 30 climbed to a record
$23.6 billion, or 426.9 cents a share, from $12.7 billion, or
227.8 cents, a year earlier, the company said. BHP made a $12.1
billion cash takeover of Petrohawk Energy Corp. in July, its
second foray into U.S. shale gas after the $4.75 billion
purchase in March of Chesapeake Energy Corp.’s Arkansas assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in  Melbourne  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 