-- 
BHP CEO Sees M&A Capacity; May Target Copper, Energy, Potash

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-08-24T16:34:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/bhp-ceo-says-balance-sheet-has-capacity-for-opportunistic-m-a.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, has capacity on its balance sheet for
opportunistic mergers and acquisitions and may target copper,
energy and potash, Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  said.  “The balance sheet has got capacity” for sizable M&A,
Kloppers, 48, told reporters at a briefing in London.
“Opportunity has always been the limiting factor, not ability
to fund, and I don’t think that that has changed.”  BHP today said second-half profit climbed to a record $13.1
billion, beating analyst estimates, after prices of copper,  iron
ore  and coal reached all-time highs on Chinese demand. The
Melbourne-based company agreed to buy  Petrohawk Energy Corp. (HK)  for
$12.1 billion in July, adding to a $4.75 billion purchase of
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  shale gas assets in March.  “It’s fairly clear that major acquisitions from a
regulatory perspective in iron ore and potentially even in
coking coal would be quite difficult,” Kloppers said. “Non-
organic growth really has got to come from perhaps base metals,
copper, or petroleum, oil and gas, or potentially in potash. The
universe of potential things that we would be interested in is
not that large.”  BHP, a partner in the world’s biggest exporter of coking
coal and the third-largest shipper of iron ore, rose 2.3 percent
to 1,932.5 pence by the 4:30 p.m. close of London trading.  ‘Comfortable’ Gearing  BHP and Nyrstar NV failed to reach an agreement in talks on
a joint bid for  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN) , two people familiar with
the matter said earlier this month. Lundin owns zinc and copper
mines in  Europe  as well as a stake in a copper and cobalt mine
in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  BHP is “very comfortable” with gearing of about 27
percent after the Petrohawk deal, Kloppers told Bloomberg
Television in an interview. Prior to the acquisition, the
company had gearing of 9 percent as of June 30, it said today in
a statement.  The company may expand in shale gas outside the U.S.
following Petrohawk, Kloppers said earlier on a call with
reporters. BHP is “less interested” in acquiring oil sands
operations because they’re “processing-intensive,” he said in
an interview on “In the Loop” on Bloomberg Television. “We
are sort of more just a pure upstream company; dig it up, put it
on a ship.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  