-- 
Biden Says He ‘Didn’t Come to Explain a Damn Thing’ to China

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-08-24T08:24:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/biden-says-he-didn-t-come-to-explain-a-damn-thing-to-china-1-.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  said he
“didn’t come to explain a damn thing” on his visit to  China ,
adding that the country’s economy had become the world’s second
biggest due to the stabilizing presence of U.S. troops in Asia.  Some media had suggested the purpose of his trip to China
was to “explain our economic situation,” Biden told U.S.
troops at Yokota airbase in Japan today. “I didn’t come to
explain a damn thing.”  Biden, 68, spent four days traveling in China with
counterpartXi Jinping, who is the frontrunner to succeed
PresidentHu Jintao in 2013. The vice president said he made the
visit to the biggest foreign holder of  U.S. debt  to build a
relationship with Xi and wanted to make clear that the  U.S.
economy  is strong and that the nation is still a Pacific power.  Biden said he spent “an unusual four days” in China.
“Unusual in the sense that the man who’s likely to become the
next president of China spent four days with me, he traveled the
country with me. They are very anxious to understand who we are,
where we are and wanting personal relationships.”  While in public Biden made statements of reassurance about
the stability of the U.S. economy and the safety of Treasuries,
he said the issue wasn’t a major focus of his private talks with
Chinese leaders.  ‘What’s Going On?’  “There were no probing questions about our economy from
them,” Biden told reporters traveling with him to  Japan  from
 Mongolia  on the final leg of his three-nation Asia tour. He said
he “didn’t sense it a bit that they needed reassurance about
our economic stability.”  Biden said Chinese leaders asked, “what’s going on?” not
“assure me now, we’re worried.” He said the Chinese don’t view
the U.S. as a declining economic power.  During meetings in Beijing, Biden and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  both expressed confidence in the U.S. economy, with the
Chinese premier saying its stability “is in the interest of the
whole world.”  Biden said he told China’s leaders that their economy is
thriving because of the U.S. military presence in the region.  The U.S. is “a stabilizing force in the Pacific Basin,”
he told the troops. “An American focus in  Asia  is only going to
grow in the years to come as Asia plays an ever-increasing role,
particularly in the global economy but also in international
affairs.”  The U.S. has about 38,000 service personnel stationed at
bases in Japan. “You are the finest warriors that the world has
ever seen,” he said at the base. “Every other military in the
world watches what you can do.”  The vice president later headed for  Hawaii .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Yokota at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  