-- 
Bombardier Air Executive Scott Retires This Year as CSeries Jet Takes Off

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-08-24T13:16:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/bombardier-air-executive-scott-retires-as-cseries-takes-off-1-.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s commercial
aircraft president,  Gary Scott , will retire Oct. 1 after a
string of CSeries jet purchases ended an order drought of more
than a year for the new narrow-body plane.  Scott, 60, has been instrumental in the development of the
CSeries, designed to capture a share in the market for the
smallest narrow-body planes from larger rivals Airbus SAS and
Boeing Co.  “Gary had decided this is the right time to devote time
with his family, who needs him at this time,” Bombardier
spokesman  John Arnone  said in an interview. Scott’s departure is
because of a family member’s illness, not the CSeries aircraft
or strategy, three people familiar with the announcement said.  Commercial aircraft will be headed by  Guy Hachey , president
of the Montreal-based company’s aerospace division, following
Scott’s departure, Bombardier said in a statement. The company
will take the “appropriate amount of time” to field candidates
and name Scott’s successor, Arnone said.  Scott, who joined Bombardier in 2004 after more than 30
years in the  aerospace industry , starting with Boeing, was “an
incredible asset,” Hachey said in the statement. He “helped us
develop game-changing products and a strong international
customer base.”  Bombardier has said it will seek a wide range of customers,
rather than a handful of blockbuster deals, to establish a
market for the CSeries, which is scheduled to debut in 2013. The
company reported its ninth order for the plane this month, from
Russian lessor Ilyushin Finance Co.  The plane’s CS100 model sells for a list price of $58.3
million, while the CS300 sells for $66.6 million, though
airlines typically negotiate discounts.  “The CSeries aircraft program is tracking well, and with
the program at this advanced stage, I feel very comfortable
leaving it in the capable hands of my colleagues,” Scott said in
the statement.  The aerospace division, which includes commercial aircraft,
generated 49 percent of Bombardier’s $17.7 billion in sales last
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in Paris at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  