-- 
Broadcom Seeks More Phone Customers in Showdown With Qualcomm

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-08-24T22:32:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/broadcom-seeks-more-phone-customers-in-showdown-with-qualcomm.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  plans to increase the
speed of its mobile-phone processors in a new push to expand its
customer base beyond Nokia Oyj and Samsung Electronics Co.  Broadcom had previously turned down requests to make
processors for other customers because it wanted to focus on
those two companies, Chief Executive Officer Scott McGregor said
today in an interview. Now Broadcom is ready to devote resources
to adding new customers and improving its chips, he said.  The effort would lessen the risk of relying mainly on Nokia
and Samsung, the world’s largest phone manufacturers. Nokia has
lost market share in recent years to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
devices that run Google Inc.’s Android software. Samsung,
meanwhile, faces risks from patent litigation.  “Nokia and Samsung are great, but we want to diversify the
customer base so we don’t have as much headline risk when any
one of them missteps,” McGregor said. That will entail improving
the chips, known as application processors, he said. Broadcom
needs to “up our game on applications processors so there’s no
excuse there.”  The campaign for customers sets up a showdown with  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM) , the top supplier of mobile-phone chips. Both companies aim
to capitalize on booming demand for Internet-connected
smartphones, which require more sophisticated processors.  While  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , Nvidia Corp. and  Intel Corp .
also target the market, Broadcom and Qualcomm are the only
companies that supply a full range of chips, McGregor said.
Broadcom plans to devote enough resources to new customers and
may allot as many as 100 engineers to each one, he said.  ‘Two-Horse Race’  “It’s going to be a two-horse race: us and Qualcomm,”
McGregor said. “People are receptive to Broadcom because we
provide a complete solution.”  Broadcom, based in  Irvine ,  California , rose 17 cents to
$33.35 today in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
climbed 4.8 percent in the past year.  In addition to selling phone processors, Broadcom supplies
other types of communications chips for products such as the
iPhone and iPad. San Diego-based Qualcomm, meanwhile, dominates
the market for radio chips -- the components that let phones
connect to carrier networks. Qualcomm has displaced Texas
Instruments in the phone market in recent years. Texas
Instruments is backing away from radio chips so it can focus on
other kinds of components.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  