-- 
BTG Pactual, Celfin in Talks to Form Biggest Latin America Investment Bank

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-08-24T19:22:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/btg-pactual-celfin-in-talks-to-form-biggest-latin-america-investment-bank.html
Banco BTG Pactual SA, whose chief
executive officer is Brazilian billionaire  Andre Esteves , is in
merger talks with Chile’s Celfin Capital SA in a transaction
that would strengthen the Brazilian firm’s presence in the
Andean region.  The merger “would create  Latin America ’s biggest
investment bank that leads the region’s most important
markets,” Santiago-based Celfin wrote in an e-mailed statement.
BTG said the firms have similar cultures and that a merger would
create synergies that would benefit their clients and
shareholders.  Sao Paulo-based BTG Pactual employs 1,200 people and
manages $64.5 billion of assets while Celfin, with a staff of
500, manages $5.5 billion of assets, the statement said. Celfin
operates as a brokerage in Chile and  Peru  and may begin
operations in  Colombia  next month, Juan Andres Camus, the firm’s
chairman, said yesterday at the Bloomberg  Chile  Economic Summit
in Santiago.  Esteves, 43, and  Brazil ’s youngest self-made billionaire,
has said he aims to turn BTG into the biggest investment bank in
Latin America.  Third-Biggest Adviser  The firm rose to become the second-biggest manager of
equity sales in Brazil this year, after Banco Itau BBA SA, up
from seventh place in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. BTG is the third-biggest adviser of mergers and
acquisitions so far this year after Itau BBA and Credit Suisse,
keeping its 2010 ranking. It managed 38.5 percent of all M&A
deals in Brazil this year.  Among recent deals, BTG in July put together a proposal to
merge Carrefour SA’s Brazilian assets with the country’s biggest
retailer, Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar.
The deal was rejected by Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA, which
shares control of Pao de Acucar with Brazilian billionaire
Abilio Diniz.  In June, BTG raised $1.6 billion for its first private-
equity fund, with investments from global funds, sovereign
wealth funds and family trusts.  BTG, which Esteves and partners repurchased from UBS AG for
$2.5 billion in 2009, has been buying stakes in ventures
including pharmacies, hospitals and parking lot operators as it
taps into Brazil’s economic expansion and strong consumer demand.  In February, BTG ventured into retail banking with the
acquisition of Banco Panamericano SA, a used-car lender.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  