-- 
California Lawmakers Back Lockyer Call for Audit of Conduit Bond Authority

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-08-24T20:23:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/california-lawmakers-back-lockyer-call-for-audit-of-conduit-bond-authority.html
California plans to audit one of the
state’s biggest issuers of municipal debt at the urging of
Treasurer Bill Lockyer on concerns about possible conflicts of
interest and lack of transparency.  The Joint Legislative Audit Committee voted to have the
Bureau of State Audits review the business practices and
disclosure of the California Statewide Communities Development
Authority, a conduit for bond sales on behalf of local
governments. The authority said it has issued almost $48 billion
of debt in the last two decades.  Lockyer, a Democrat, said he’s concerned that the joint
powers law that allows the agency to exist has been hijacked by
a private company to make a profit. The authority contracts out
its management to a Walnut Creek-based company called HB Capital
Resources, which Lockyer said has a financial interest in
convincing local officials to approve bond sales that the
authority would then sell.  “What we have here is private company masquerading as a
public entity,” Lockyer told the committee today.  The founders of HB Capital, Stephen Hamill and Gerald
Burke, serve as the general managers of the authority, whose
board members come from the California State Association of
Counties and the League of California Cities.  Hamill and Burke declined to comment. The authority’s
lawyer, Greg Stepanicich, said there is no conflict of interest
and compared HB Capital’s recommendations with the state’s use
of financial advisers on bond sales. The advisers are often paid
out of bond proceeds, as is HB Capital, he said.  “We don’t believe there is any violation of conflict of
interest laws,” Stepanicich said in a telephone interview.
“This is an effort by the state Treasurer’s office to expand
its own business and take business away from CSCDA and other
joint-power authorities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  