-- 
California Gasoline Strengthens as West Coast Inventories Drop

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-08-24T20:57:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/california-gasoline-strengthens-as-west-coast-inventories-drop.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  strengthened a third day after the Energy Department
said motor gasoline inventories on the West Coast fell to their
lowest level in six weeks.  The premium for Carbob in Los Angeles rose 1.75 cents to
19.75 cents above gasoline futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 4:08 p.m. East Coast time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The fuel jumped 9.87 cents yesterday
after  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  shut a pipeline in
Northern California and  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  reported a power loss at
its Wilmington refinery over the weekend.  Gasoline stockpiles on the West Coast fell 1.2 percent in
the week ended Aug. 19 to 28.7 million barrels, according to the
Energy Department. That’s the lowest level since July 8.  “Some export departures in the last six weeks to  Mexico 
are a big factor,” Bob van der Valk, an independent fuel
pricing analyst in Terry, Montana, said in an e-mail. “Gasoline
prices will continue to firm up some more before the start of
refinery turnarounds.”  Carbob in  San Francisco  rose 1.25 cents to a premium of
23.25 cents over futures, the largest premium for the fuel since
Feb. 18.  Kinder Morgan said the gasoline pipeline shut yesterday
after a leak in Contra Costa County was started later that same
day after repairs. The incident had no impact on supply, as a
storage complex at the end of the line typically holds three to
four days’ worth of products, Emily Mir Thompson, a company
spokeswoman based in Houston, said in an e-mail.  The premium for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
 Portland , Oregon, rose 0.75 cent to a premium of 11.25 cents
versus futures at 4:08 p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  