-- 
Cameron Insistence on Spending Cuts Questioned by Allies as Economy Sags

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-08-25T13:59:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/cameron-faces-pressure-to-spur-u-k-growth.html
Pressure is building on Prime
Minister  David Cameron  to find new initiatives to revive the
economy in the wake of riots across  England  this month as the
harshest austerity program in living memory starts to bite.  Cameron’s refusal to compromise on the pace of cuts is
straining a recovery facing headwinds that Bank of England
Governor  Mervyn King  says are growing “by the day.” As the
premier presses ahead with reductions to welfare benefits and
state jobs, accelerating inflation is squeezing incomes and
growth is slowing across the world amid  Europe ’s intensifying
debt crisis.  An index of retail sales in August probably fell to the
lowest since the Conservative-led coalition took over in May
2010, a survey may show today.  Consumer confidence  fell for a
second month in July, a separate report showed. Cameron has
staked his reputation on carrying out the deepest budget cuts
since World War II after inheriting an unprecedented budget
 deficit  of 11 percent of economic output.  “It’s putting a lot more pressure on them to rethink and
come up with some new ideas,” said  Chris Williamson , the
London-based chief economist at Markit, which compiles monthly
purchasing-management surveys of the manufacturing, services and
construction industries. “In the environment at the moment,
where more countries are implementing austerity measures, we’re
going to have to do more to stimulate growth.”  Bond Yields  In a sign of pessimism about the economy, yields on 10-year
U.K. government bonds fell to 2.24 percent in  London  on Aug. 18,
the least since Bloomberg began collecting data on the
securities in 1989. The yield rose 4 basis points from yesterday
to 2.51 percent as of 2:23 p.m. in London, compared with 2.23
percent on similar-maturity German bunds, Europe’s benchmark.
Spanish and Italian debt yields 5 percent.  Questions are mounting among Cameron’s political allies.
London Mayor  Boris Johnson , a Conservative, said during the
unrest that spread from London to cities around the country that
the government should review police cuts. Johnson is also among
Tories demanding the abolition of the top 50 percent income-tax
rate to boost spending and encourage companies to locate in
Britain.  “Stimulating the engines of economic growth is the real
key to helping the British economy back on the road to
recovery,” Conservative lawmaker Mark Field wrote on his
website last month. “I fear that this will be too difficult a
pill for the coalition to swallow as it requires harsher
spending reductions to pay for it.”  Tax-Cut Demand  For its part, the opposition  Labour Party  wants a rollback
in the sales-tax increase to 20 percent from 17.5 percent that
took effect in January as well as a slower pace of  deficit
reduction .  Cameron’s five-year plan, made up of 80 billion pounds
($131 billion) of spending and welfare cuts and 30 billion
pounds of tax increases, is aimed at eradicating the bulk of the
deficit by 2015. Departments will see their budgets reduced in
every year -- no postwar British government has managed more
than two -- and more than 300,000 government-funded jobs are set
to be axed.  Cameron argues the plan has made Britain a haven from the
debt crisis engulfing the euro region and that it’s also
protecting its top  credit rating  after  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded the U.S. this month. Critics say the cuts will prove
self-defeating by hampering the growth required to narrow the
deficit.  ‘Balanced Plan’  “If you slam the brakes on too hard it will hit jobs and
the recovery,” Angela Eagle, a senior Labour lawmaker who
speaks on the economy, said in an e-mailed statement today. “We
need a balanced plan that puts jobs and growth first. More
people in work paying taxes and fewer out of work on benefits is
the best way to get the  deficit down .”  Growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second quarter, leaving
output barely higher than in the third quarter of last year. The
 Office for National Statistics  will leave the figure unrevised
when it publishes its second estimate of gross domestic product
at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow, the median of 30 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey shows.  While production was hit by an extra public holiday in
April to mark the royal wedding and supply disruptions caused by
the earthquake in  Japan , recent data suggest underlying activity
is weakening along with economies from  Germany  to Japan.  After Riots  U.K. unemployment claims climbed the most in more than two
years in July and sales of clothing and household goods dropped,
government reports showed this month.  Nationwide Building
Society  said today that its consumer-confidence index fell 2
points to 49 and predicted a further decline in August after the
U.K. riots and global market turbulence.  Against a backdrop of plunging global stock markets, the
 Bank of England  this month cut its forecast for U.K. growth this
year to 1.5 percent from 1.9 percent and officials discussed
whether they needed to resume buying assets to spur growth.  Many are more pessimistic. The average of  independent
forecasts  compiled by the Treasury this month is for 1.3 percent
growth and Williamson at Markit says a double-dip recession is
“a real possibility” if confidence continues to weaken.  “It’s hard to see where demand is going to come from in
the next few years,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  