-- 
Canadian Dollar Best Performer Among Major Currencies on U.S. Resilience

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-08-24T21:23:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/canada-s-dollar-fluctuates-as-commodities-stall-before-bernanke-s-speech.html
Canada ’s dollar gained against all
of its most-traded counterparts after a government report showed
orders for American durable goods rose in July more than
economists forecast.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is also known,
fluctuated versus the greenback before an Aug. 26 address by
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in Jackson Hole,
 Wyoming . Trading patterns show the Canadian currency may decline
as much as 5 percent in the next two weeks, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  “So much depends on Bernanke,” said  Camilla Sutton , chief
currency strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital, by
phone from Toronto. “Without that risk in the market, we would
have a weaker Canadian dollar.”  The Canadian currency was little changed at 98.71 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 98.74 cents
yesterday. One Canadian dollar purchases $1.0131.  The Canadian dollar rose against the commodity-linked
Australian and New Zealand currencies as durable goods indicated
resilience in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trading partner.  Bookings for American goods meant to last at least three
years rose 4 percent in July, the most in four months, after
falling a revised 1.3 percent in the prior month, a Commerce
Department report showed today. The median projection of 81
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 2 percent gain
in orders for durable goods.  Drop in Bonds  Government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on two-year debt
up five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1 percent in
a fourth consecutive increase. The price of the 2 percent
security maturing in August 2013 declined 11 cents to C$101.91.
The yield fell on Aug. 9 to 0.78 percent, the lowest level in
Bloomberg records dating to 1989.  The loonie has traded within a two-cent band of 99.69 cents
to 97.67 cents from Aug. 10 through today as investors await
Bernanke’s address.  “The Canadian dollar is contained to a very narrow
range,” said Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange in
Toronto at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit, in a
phone interview. “There is very good buying of the Canadian
dollar around the 99 cent level, and we see good support at
98.50,” said Jespersen, referring to an area where buy orders
may be clustered.  Loonie Versus Euro  “Short euro-Canada dollar is your best trade at the
moment,” said Jespersen, meaning sell euros and buy loonies.
The loonie appreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.4229 against the euro,
from C$1.4263 yesterday. A short is a bet an asset may decline.  Trading patterns indicate Canada’s dollar is poised to drop
against the greenback after staying “remarkably stable” during
the recent market turmoil, according to  MacNeil Curry , head of
currency technical strategy at Bank of America in  New York .  The Canadian currency may break from its “contracting
triangle” pattern and decline to C$1.0389 versus the U.S.
dollar, from the 98.74 cent closing price yesterday, Curry wrote
today in a research note to clients. Such a move would represent
a loss of about 5 percent.  Elliott Wave Theory, created by the U.S. market analyst
Ralph Elliott in 1938, attempts to predict future price moves by
dividing past trends into sections, or waves, and calculating
changes in value. In a contracting triangle, the first wave is
the longest while the fifth wave is the shortest.  Canada’s currency has already declined 4.3 percent from a
three-year high of 94.07 cents reached July 26, weakening on
concern the global recovery is losing momentum.  ‘Double Bottom’  A “double bottom” pattern has formed as the currency
approached 94 cents twice and was rebuffed, meaning the previous
support level of 97.69 for the U.S. dollar has become a
resistance level, with the pair targeting a range of C$1.0270 to
C$1.0389, Curry wrote.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.3 percent today
after yesterday’s 3.4 percent rally. The S&P/TSX Composite Index
was little changed. Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest
export, fell 0.2 percent to $85.25 a barrel in New York.  Bernanke is preparing for an address later this week at a
conference in  Jackson Hole , where he indicated in August 2010
that the central bank “will do all that it can” to ensure a
continuation of the economic recovery and that more securities
purchases might be warranted if growth slows.  Two months later, the Fed announced a $600 billion second
round of U.S. debt buying to support the recovery, a program
that ended in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  