-- 
Canada’s Macklem Says G-20 Reform Delay Threatens Global Economic Recovery

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-08-24T05:18:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/canada-s-macklem-says-global-recovery-threatened-by-delays-in-g-20-reforms.html
Bank of  Canada  Senior Deputy
Governor Tiff Macklem said delays by the Group of 20 nations in
fixing “imbalances” in trade and fiscal policies threatens to
exacerbate recent financial market instability and erase
trillions of dollars of demand.  “As the recent extreme market volatility has made all too
stark, we hand financial markets the opportunity to speculate
against needed adjustments at our collective peril,” Macklem,
who helped lead  G-20 talks  on improving financial rules, said at
a banking conference in Mumbai today. “We have fallen short in
correcting the imbalances that are plaguing the global economy
and fueling financial vulnerabilities.”  Canada and India co-chaired Group of 20 panels that sought
ways to strengthen financial regulation and generate more
sustainable economic growth. The world’s largest economies are
talking about how to unwind “imbalances” in global trade and
exchange rates, which could boost demand between C$6 trillion
($6.1 trillion) and C$9 trillion by 2015, he said.  “The working group’s focus now is on the key challenges of
fostering greater exchange-rate flexibility in emerging markets,
encouraging deeper and more significant structural reforms, and
strengthening the fiscal commitments made in Toronto” last
year, Macklem said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which has dropped 12.7 percent
this year, slid 0.5 percent at 10:42 a.m. in Mumbai. Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures lost 0.5 percent.  ‘Intensified’ Crisis  Recent signs that the global recovery is at risk include
the “intensified” European fiscal crisis, the loss by the U.S.
of its top  credit rating  and “a broad range of data” that
indicate slowing economic growth, Macklem said.  U.S. consumer confidence in August plunged to the lowest
level since May 1980, while European economic growth slowed more
than economists forecast in the second quarter as  Germany ’s
recovery almost ground to a halt.  Emerging-market policies of limiting gains in their
currencies and building up foreign-exchange reserves are also a
hindrance, Macklem said.  “With only very modest adjustments of the renminbi against
the  U.S. dollar ,  China ’s real effective exchange rate against
its full range of trading partners has actually depreciated
since June 2010,” he said.  “As the consequences of this lack of adjustment spill over
on to others, G-20 members are increasingly taking individual
actions that collectively risk further thwarting needed global
adjustment,” Macklem said, saying Canada and  India  are being
hurt by those policies.  He also repeated Canada’s call for the implementation and
enforcement of so-called Basel III requirements for lenders to
hold more capital and for new regulation of over-the-counter
derivatives contracts such as currency swaps.  “It is critically important that the momentum driving
financial sector reform be maintained,” Macklem said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 