-- 
Carillion Net Falls on Acquisition of Energy Services Unit

-- B y   B e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-08-24T16:05:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/carillion-net-falls-on-acquisition-of-energy-services-business.html
Carillion Plc (CLLN) , a U.K. construction
and services provider, said first-half profit fell 37 percent on
a one-off cost associated with the acquisition of Carillion
Energy Services.  Net income for the six months to June 30 dropped to 32.7
million pounds ($54 million) from 51.5 million pounds a year
earlier, the Wolverhampton, England-based company said today in
a statement.  Carillion said it incurred a one-off cost of 28 million
pounds relating to the acquisition and integration of Carillion
Energy Services. Revenue fell 2 percent to 2.45 billion pounds
as its U.K. construction business declined in line with planned
cutting of annual revenue of the unit it began last year.  “Despite the fact we had 28 million pounds of one-time
costs relating to the acquisition, underlying profit before tax
and earnings are both up 10 percent in the first half,” Chief
Executive Officer John McDonough said today in a telephone
interview. “The most pleasing aspect of the results is the
balance sheet, with a really strong  cash flow  from operations of
110 million pounds.”  McDonough will retire at the end of the year and be
succeeded by Chief Operating Officer Richard Howson, the company
said in the statement.  “It’s time to hang the boots up,” McDonough said. “I’m
really pleased that we have a seamless  succession plan  in place.
Richard Howson has been with Carillion for 16 years; he’ll be a
great leader for us.”  Dividend  The company raised its half-year dividend 10 percent to 5.3
pence.  Unrest in the  Middle East  had “virtually zilch” impact on
its contracts in the region, McDonough said. A project to build
a shopping mall in Cairo was shut down for six weeks, but work
has resumed.  Carillion said today that it has secured long-term road
maintenance contracts in  Canada  worth as much as 250 million
pounds. The company is also bidding for road maintenance
contracts in Qatar, McDonough said.  Its shares gained 3.8 percent to 323 pence at the 4:30 p.m.
close in  London , giving the company a market value of 1.4
billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Edwards in London at 
 bedwards35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  