-- 
Cash Gold Extends Biggest Drop Since February 2010 as CME Raises Margins

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-08-24T23:18:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/cash-gold-extends-biggest-drop-since-february-2010-as-cme-raises-margins.html
Spot gold declined, extending its
biggest plunge since February 2010, after CME Group Inc.
increased margins on trading at its Comex unit for the second
time this month.  Gold for immediate delivery slid as much as 1 percent to
$1,742.31 an ounce before trading at $1,750.90 at 7:12 a.m. in
 Singapore . The price slumped 3.8 percent yesterday, the most
since Feb. 4 last year. Futures fell 0.3 percent to $1,751.70
after plunging 5.6 percent yesterday, the most since March 2008.  The minimum cash deposit for borrowing from brokers to
trade futures will jump 27 percent to $9,450 per 100-ounce
contract in the speculative Tier 1 category at the close of
trading today, CME said. On Aug. 11, the increase was 22 percent
to $7,425. The cost of one contract after yesterday’s close was
$175,730. The maintenance margin increases to $7,000 from $5,500.  Cash bullion tumbled more than 7 percent in the two days to
yesterday, erasing gains that sent the metal to a record
$1,913.50 an ounce. On Aug. 16,  Wells Fargo & Co . said in a
report that rising speculative demand from investors had pushed
the market into a “bubble that is poised to burst.”  “This is liquidation from a crowded trade,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at MF Global Holdings
Ltd. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “In the short
run, there’s more optimism and that doesn’t bode well for gold.
Investors have been using gold more as a fear barometer than a
proxy for inflation.”  Equities, Dollar  U.S. equities gained yesterday after reports on durable-
goods orders and  home prices  beat analyst forecasts. The dollar
rose against a basket of six major currencies amid speculation
about whether Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will say
this week that the central bank is willing to provide more
stimulus to the economy. Central bankers meet this week in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , to address the U.S. recovery.  “The motions that you are seeing are now indications of a
market pop,” Erik Davidson, deputy chief investment officer at
Wells Fargo, said in an interview. “People should keep in mind
that a reserve currency does not fluctuate as much as gold.”  Gold has gained 23 percent this year as burgeoning global
debt crises and turmoil in equity markets boosted the appeal of
the metal as an alternative asset.  “ Europe  is on vacation and the sovereign-debt fears are
being addressed,”  Frank Lesh , a trader at FuturePath Trading,
said in a phone interview from Chicago. “The  currency markets 
are pretty stable and not scaring anybody at the moment.”  Soros, Mindich  In the second quarter,  George Soros  and  Eric Mindich  cut
their holdings in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest exchange-
traded fund backed by the metal. Paulson & Co., the U.S. hedge
fund run by  John Paulson , maintained its position of 31.5
million shares, the biggest stake in the ETF.  The SPDR Gold Trust surpassed its equities counterpart as
the biggest ETF by market value on Aug. 19. On that day, the
bullion fund’s market capitalization rose to $76.7 billion,
driven by rising prices. SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust, which had been
the industry’s largest ETF since 1993, stood at $74.4 billion.  “We exited one third of our gold position yesterday, and
in retrospect we should have exited 150 percent of our long
position,”  Dennis Gartman , an economist and the editor of the
Gartman Letter, wrote yesterday in his daily report. “The
biggest news of all, in our opinion, was that the capitalization
of the” gold fund had surpassed the equity ETF.  ETP Holdings  Gold fell from a then-record when CME raised margins on Aug.
11. The Shanghai Gold Exchange said higher margin requirements
will go into effect from settlement on Aug. 25.  Holdings of bullion-backed ETPs fell for a fourth day,
sliding 1.2 percent to 2,154.7 metric tons, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Assets reached a record 2,216.8 tons on Aug. 8.  “Gold got pushed up on the idea that Bernanke will
announce further quantitative easing,” said Patricia Mohr, a
commodity-market specialist at Scotia Capital. “Now people are
not so sure whether that will happen and that is creating
disappointment in the gold market.”  The decline may be a buying opportunity to some investors,
said James Dailey, who manages $200 million at TEAM Financial
Management in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania .  “A lot of traders and investors who are long-term bullish
on gold sold out hoping for a correction because of how much it
went up,” said Dailey. “The drivers remain intact. The
toughest thing to do is stay invested during the various
parabolas and sit through the corrections.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  