-- 
Gold Rallies After Dropping From Record

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-08-24T06:51:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/cash-gold-rebounds-after-tumbling-from-record-as-investors-seek-protection.html
Gold rebounded after dropping from
an all-time high above $1,900 an ounce as investor concern that
worsening sovereign-debt crises are exacerbating a global
economic slowdown increased demand for a store of value.  Immediate-delivery gold advanced as much as 1.4 percent to
$1,853.98 before trading at $1,844.32 at 2:37 p.m. in  Singapore .
The metal touched a record $1,913.50 yesterday before closing
3.7 percent lower on speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve
will act to stimulate the faltering economy, boosting stocks.  Japan ’s sovereign-credit rating was lowered by Moody’s
Investors Service today, following the first cut of the U.S.’s
sovereign grade this month by  Standard & Poor’s . The move comes
amid concern the euro-area debt crisis may worsen after German
Chancellor Angela Merkel rejected a call by her nation’s Labor
Minister Ursula von der Leyen for countries to put up gold as
security for bailouts, reflecting euro-area divisions.  “Gold is very well-bid every time prices come off,” said
Duan Shihua, head of corporate services at Haitong Futures Co.
and the top-rated gold analyst this year in an annual poll by
the Futures Daily and Securities Times. “This will keep prices
supported as investors continue to look for a safe place to put
their money.”  Central bankers from around the world gather on Aug. 26 in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , for an annual meeting that last year saw
Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke hint at a second round of asset
purchases. That’s created speculation the Fed may move again at
this meeting to bolster the economy.  Central Banks  “Three pillars are set to strengthen and drive prices
further into uncharted territory,” Barclays Capital analysts
including  Suki Cooper  said in a report today. These are a
“structural shift in macroeconomic instability,” investment
demand and the return of central-bank buying, they said.  Central banks are unlikely to sell their gold even if they
need to raise cash to counter an escalating debt crisis,
according to Morgan Stanley.  “You sell off your one asset that really would produce a
major bang for your buck, and what happens is 12 months down the
track, you find that your debt position is still
deteriorating,” said  Peter Richardson , chief metals economist
at Morgan Stanley Australia Ltd. “You don’t then have the asset
backing in the form of a high gold price for your reserves to
bolster your creditworthiness.”  Gold for December delivery in  New York  fell as much as 1.6
percent to $1,831.50 an ounce before trading at $1,848.20. Cash
silver and palladium were little changed at $41.89 an ounce and
$761.25 an ounce, respectively. Spot platinum increased 0.5
percent to $1,871.60 an ounce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  