-- 
Central Banks Seen Retaining Gold to Help Manage Debt as Bullion Advances

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-08-24T11:16:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/central-banks-seen-retaining-gold-to-help-manage-debt-as-bullion-advances.html
Central banks, net buyers of gold
for the first time in a generation, are likely to retain their
holdings even if they need to raise cash to counter an
escalating debt crisis, according to Morgan Stanley.  “Once they’ve sold, that’s it, and buying back would be
extremely expensive,”  Peter Richardson , chief metals economist
at Morgan Stanley Australia Ltd., said in an interview. “They
would rather have the backing of a rising asset within their
reserve portfolios than use it to reduce debt.”  Gold rallied to a record this week as rising government
debt burdens and weakening currencies boosted demand for a
haven. Central banks are the biggest gold holders, and Thailand,
 South Korea , Kazakhstan,  Mexico  and  Russia  added to reserves
this year. The precious metal is the “currency of the world” 
amid the debt crisis, economist  Dennis Gartman  wrote Aug. 19.  “Under conditions of austerity we’re going to see a
further deterioration of debt,” said Richardson, who has studied
metals markets for 20 years. “Rising risk argues in favor of 
holding on to their  gold reserves  rather than selling them
because they’ve only got one shot at selling.”  Immediate-delivery gold, which has rallied 30 percent this
year, touched an all-time high of $1,913.50 per ounce yesterday
and was at $1,846.07 by 12:02 p.m. in  London . The metal may
reach $2,000 by the end of the year, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 13 traders and analysts at a
conference in Kovalam in South India on Aug. 20.  Currency Credibility  “The European central banks won’t sell their gold because
while it may be a means to raise cash, it definitely won’t be
enough to settle their debts,” said Duan Shihua, head of
corporate services at Haitong Futures Co.,  China ’s largest
brokerage by registered capital. “Besides, none of the central
banks believe in the currencies of other countries.”  In 2010, central banks became net buyers for the first time
in two decades, adding 87 metric tons in purchases by countries
including Bolivia and Mauritius, according to  World Gold Council 
data. In the second quarter of 2011, central bank and
government-institution buying rose almost fivefold to 69.4 tons,
taking the first-half total to 192.3 tons, the council said last
week. The banks will remain net buyers this year, it said.  Central banks have been “active buyers” of gold in recent
months,  Edel Tully , an analyst at UBS AG, wrote in a note to
clients on Aug. 8. The banks should also buy platinum as they
boost gold holdings amid concern about the global economy,
Citigroup Inc. said in a report the same day.  Credit-Rating Downgrades  The debt crisis in  Europe  that started in  Greece  has
hobbled economic growth and prompted downgrades of the credit
ratings of Greece, Portugal and Ireland. Still, the euro has
strengthened against the currencies of 14 of 16 trading partners
this year as the European Central Bank bought  government bonds .  German Chancellor Angela Merkel yesterday rejected a call
by Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen for states to put up gold
as collateral for emergency loans. That disagreement may
underscore risks over a second Greek aid package.  In August 2009, central banks in Europe agreed to a third
five-year cap on gold sales. The European Central Bank and 18
others agreed to sell no more than a combined 400 tons a year
through September 2014. Germany, Italy, France, the Netherlands,
the  European Central Bank , Portugal, Spain and Austria are among
the top 20 holders, according to council data.  IMF Sales  “Notwithstanding the worst sovereign-debt crisis,
particularly in Europe, where there are very large, concentrated
holdings of gold, the central-bank agreement has been striking
by the fact the only people who have been selling has been the
IMF,” said Richardson, referring to the Washington-based
 International Monetary Fund .  The IMF sold 403.3 tons between October 2009 and December
2010 as part of a plan to shore up its finances and lend at
reduced rates to low-income countries. More than half of that
was acquired by central banks, according to the fund.  The Bank of  Korea , which purchased 25 tons over a one-month
period from June to July, said “holding gold helps reduce
investment risks in terms of reserve management,” according to
a statement earlier this month after the move was disclosed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  