-- 
McGraw-Hill Seen Returning 40% More in Pieces Than Current Value: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a ,   O l i v e r   S t a l e y   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-24T20:23:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/mcgraw-hill-seen-returning-40-more-in-pieces-than-current-value-real-m-a.html
McGraw-Hill Cos., which does
everything from selling textbooks to rating government bonds and
compiling car surveys, may be worth at least 40 percent more if
sold and broken into pieces.  Founded by Sir James McGraw after he bought the “American
Journal of Railway Appliances” in 1888, McGraw-Hill has lost a
third of its value since 2006 as budget cuts by state and local
governments caused school textbook sales to fall in four of the
past five years and its AAA ratings on bonds backed by subprime
mortgages proved to be wrong. The $12 billion company, which
also owns Standard & Poor’s and J.D. Power & Associates,
yesterday traded for less per dollar of revenue than any of its
closest rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  By breaking up McGraw-Hill and valuing its businesses
separately, its shareholders could get about $5 billion more,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said. That would help Chief Executive
Officer Terry McGraw, 62, recoup some of the money owners lost
as the shares fell more than competitors. Jana Partners LLC and
 Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  proposed splitting up McGraw-Hill
this week, while the company said two days ago it would replace
S&P’s president after a decision to downgrade the U.S. for the
first time sparked criticism over its credit-ratings process.  “A breakup is better,”  Michael Holland , chairman of New
York-based Holland & Co., which oversees more than $4 billion,
said in a telephone interview. McGraw-Hill has “value that
isn’t being reflected in the market today. They just have really
good brands. The CEO and the board have to consider if they want
to unlock value,” he said.  AAA Subprime Mortgages  Patti Rockenwagner, a spokeswoman for McGraw-Hill, referred
to a company statement, which said its own “review is well
advanced and expected to result in significant actions in the
next few months to accelerate global growth, align appropriate
cost structures and build shareholder value.”  Shares of McGraw-Hill surged 7.4 percent to $41.30 in  New
York , the biggest advance since April 2009. The gain was also
the second-largest in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index today,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The stock had slumped 31 percent in the past five years
through yesterday, three times the retreat in the S&P 500, as
sales at its school education group dropped 27 percent amid
spending cuts by state and local governments following the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  ‘Mortgage Debacle’  McGraw-Hill’s S&P unit, along with Moody’s Investors
Service, were blamed in an April Senate report for helping fuel
that crisis with inflated ratings for mortgage securities
packaged during the housing boom. About 90 percent of AAA
securities backed by subprime mortgages from 2006 and 2007 were
later downgraded to junk status, according to the Senate
 Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations.  “The reason it has performed so poorly in recent years was
its dependence on the capital markets and the mortgage
debacle,” Joel Harris, a Portland, Maine-based managing
director at H.M. Payson & Co., which oversees $2 billion,
including McGraw-Hill shares, said in a telephone interview.  S&P’s Aug. 5 decision to cut the U.S.’s credit rating to
AA+ was also criticized by billionaire  Warren Buffett , who said
the U.S. should be “quadruple-A.” The McGraw-Hill unit
downgraded America even after Treasury Department officials told
the firm it had overstated future national debt by $2 trillion.  Since the day of S&P’s move through yesterday, McGraw-
Hill’s shares lost 7.3 percent, double the  S&P 500 ’s 3.1 percent
slide, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company said two
days ago it will replace S&P President Deven Sharma, 55, with
Citibank NA Chief Operating Officer Douglas Peterson, 53.  Relative Value  Jana and Ontario Teachers’ cited the regulatory and
political scrutiny related to the S&P ratings business as
highlighting the downside of McGraw-Hill “housing wholly
unrelated businesses together” in an Aug. 22 filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “McGraw-Hill has consistently underperformed its potential
and traded at a sizable discount to its intrinsic value,
primarily due to the operational challenges, capital
inefficiencies and structural complexity caused by its
conglomerate structure,” the filing said.  Its stock traded at 1.86 times sales yesterday, almost 40
percent less than  Moody’s Corp. (MCO) , which was valued at the 2.91
times median for companies that provide financial information
and services worth at least $1 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. New York-based Moody’s is the world’s second-
largest bond rater behind McGraw-Hill’s S&P unit.  Four Units  The company faces pressure from New York-based hedge fund
Jana and Ontario Teachers’, which together own more than 5
percent of McGraw-Hill and want the company to break itself up.
They presented a plan to separate the company into four units --
S&P, the S&P index business, information and media, and
education, Jana said in the filing.  Officials from McGraw-Hill, who met with the shareholders
in New York on Aug. 22, didn’t respond to the proposal, said a
person with knowledge of the talks, who declined to be named
because the discussions haven’t been made public. The company is
considering dividing in two, with the education publishing unit
being spun off or sold, the person said.  A sum-of-the-parts analysis by Michael Meltz, an analyst at
New York-based JPMorgan, shows McGraw-Hill is worth about $55 a
share. He based his projection on next year’s estimated earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization at each of
McGraw-Hill’s businesses and applying multiples of each unit’s
closest competitors. That would give McGraw-Hill $16.6 billion
in equity value, 42 percent more than its price yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Can’t Argue’  “You can’t argue with the mathematical model of it,”
Douglas Arthur, a New York-based analyst at Evercore Partners
Inc., said in a telephone interview.  The S&P ratings unit and financial services division, which
licenses S&P 500 index-related products and information,
together would be worth $1 billion more than the company as a
whole, based on JPMorgan’s estimates.  That means McGraw-Hill is destroying  shareholder value  by
selling textbooks to schools and universities.  News Corp., which in November hired former New York City
schools chancellor Joel Klein to help build an education
business, may be a buyer for McGraw-Hill’s division, according
to  David Joyce , a New York-based analyst at Miller Tabak & Co.  Bertelsmann AG,  Europe ’s largest media company, may also be
interested in the education unit, said  Claudio Aspesi , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  London . Chief Executive
Officer Hartmut Ostrowski said in March the company it could
spend as much as 1 billion euros ($1.44 billion) on acquisitions
in areas that included education.  Overdue Change  Teri Everett, a spokeswoman at New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA) ,
didn’t respond to a telephone call or e-mail requesting comment.
Andreas Grafemeyer, a spokesman for Guetersloh, Germany-based
Bertelsmann, declined to comment on whether the company would
make a bid for the unit.  McGraw-Hill is “probably long overdue for some kind of
change here,” Todd Lowenstein, a  fund manager  for Highmark
Capital Management Inc., which manages $17.2 billion, said in a
telephone interview from  Los Angeles . His firm owns McGraw-Hill
shares. “The company is materially undervalued relative to its
intrinsic parts and a breakup would obviously be a catalyst in
shedding some light on the underlying value.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Kaufman  at +1-617-210-4638 or  jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 