-- 
Cheney Says He Had Secret Resignation Letter

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-08-24T20:03:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/cheney-says-he-had-secret-resignation-letter.html
Former Vice President  Dick Cheney 
secretly put a signed resignation letter in a safe shortly after
taking office, in part because of concerns about his health,
according to excerpts from an NBC News interview.  Cheney, 70, who suffered four heart attacks before becoming
President  George W. Bush ’s vice president, was worried about the
possibility “that I might have a heart attack or a stroke that
would be incapacitating,” he said in the interview. “There is
no mechanism for getting rid of a vice president who can’t
function.”  Cheney signed the letter in March 2001, two months after
the inauguration. Bush knew about it as did a member of the vice
president’s staff, according to the NBC excerpts.  The former vice president has been beset by heart trouble.
In February 2010, he was hospitalized for what doctors described
as a “mild” heart attack, his fifth, and he underwent surgery
later that year to implant a pump to assist his heart.  The interview, set for broadcast on the network’s
“Dateline” program Aug. 29 and the “Today” show Aug. 30, was
conducted in conjunction with the release next week of Cheney’s
memoir, “In My Time.” Cheney said the reaction to some of the
revelations in the book will have “heads exploding all over
 Washington .” The excerpts of the interview released by NBC
didn’t elaborate.  Cheney also defended the use of harsh interrogation
techniques of suspected terrorists, including “waterboarding,”
which simulates drowning.  “I would strongly support using it again if we had a high-
value detainee and that was the only way we could get him to
talk,” he said.  In the book, Cheney talks about differences he had with
Bush over striking a target where Iraqi leader  Saddam Hussein 
was believed to be hiding after the U.S. invasion of  Iraq  in
2003. Cheney said he didn’t think revealing the differences
would embarrass Bush or betray a trust.  “I say some very fine things about  George Bush  and believe
every word of it,” Cheney told NBC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  