-- 
Chile Weathering Global Slump With 5% Growth in 2012 as Spending Increases

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   J a m e s   A t t w o o d
-- 
2011-08-24T20:29:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/chile-weathering-global-slump-with-5-growth-in-2012-as-spending-increases.html
Chile , the world’s biggest copper
producer, is poised to shrug off a global economic slowdown and
generate growth of more than 5 percent next year, topping
analysts’ estimates, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said.  The government of President Sebastian Pinera aims to
average 6 percent annual growth over its four-year term and is
developing 2012 forecasts that point to an expansion of 5
percent or “somewhat” more, Larrain, 53, said yesterday at the
Bloomberg Chile Economic Summit in Santiago. The government is
establishing a financial stability council made up of central
bank and government experts to better coordinate economic
oversight as global risks mount, Larrain said.  Larrain reiterated the government’s projection for 2011
growth, which the ministry said would be 6.6 percent. The Andean
nation’s economy is expanding at its fastest pace in more than a
decade at a time when much of the world is struggling with a
widening European debt crisis and slower global growth.  “Chile’s economy has enormous strengths,” he said.
“However, Chile is an economy that is part of the global
community and we confront a complicated external environment.”  The $200 billion copper-based economy will decelerate in
the third and fourth quarters after growing 8.4 percent in the
first half of 2011, the fastest pace since 1995, Larrain said.  Copper Nation  The world’s biggest copper-producing nation, Chile has
increased fiscal savings to $18 billion, the highest level since
2009 and equivalent to about 9 percent of GDP.  The government, which will post an estimated fiscal surplus
of 1.3 percent of GDP this year, has space to increase savings
even more to create a buffer against global economic risks, the
International Monetary Fund’s executive board said in a report
today.  Copper prices, which have plunged 10 percent this month
after more than tripling in value since 2009, are underpinned by
“robust” demand,  Thomas Keller , the chief financial officer of
Chile’s state-owned copper company Codelco, said at the
Bloomberg conference.  The central bank already is seeing signs of a slowdown in
demand growth that helped lead the country’s recovery from the
2009 recession and February 2010 earthquake, bank President Jose De Gregorio said yesterday at the conference.  Policy makers last week kept the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 5.25 percent, noting in the statement accompanying
the decision an economic slowdown in the U.S., lower commodity
prices and heightened concern about financial risk in  Europe .  Growth Outlook  The U.S. on Aug. 5 had its AAA credit rating downgraded for
the first time by  Standard & Poor’s , and the U.S. Federal
Reserve on Aug. 9 pledged to keep rates at a record low through
at least mid-2013 to revive a recovery that it said has been
“considerably slower” than anticipated. Investor concern has
also mounted over debt sustainability in Europe.  Chile will expand 4.5 percent next year, according to
median forecast of eight economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
IMF estimates GDP will climb 5 percent in 2012, according to
today’s report.  The yield on the country’s dollar-denominated bonds due in
2020 fell to 3.15 percent today from 3.79 percent when they were
sold in August of last year.  Morgan Stanley in an Aug. 22 report reduced its growth
forecast for all Latin American countries except Chile, whose
GDP will climb an estimated 4.4 percent. That would be the
fastest growth among major Latin American countries behind  Peru ,
according to the report.  The finance minister, a Harvard University-trained
economist, has published 10 books, including “Macroeconomics in
the Global Economy,” co-written by Columbia University
economist  Jeffrey Sachs .  “Chile is going to be a country where investors
increasingly are going to be able to find opportunities and the
security that our country brings,” Larrain said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  