-- 
China’s Stocks Decline on China Life’s Earnings, Global Growth Concerns

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-24T07:50:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/china-s-stocks-rise-for-second-day-on-earnings-growth-fed-stimulus-bets.html
China ’s stocks fell for the sixth
time in seven days after the nation’s biggest insurer reported
slumping profit and a cut in Japan’s debt rating by Moody’s
Investors Service added to concerns global growth is slowing.  China Life Insurance Co. declined more than 3 percent to a
record low after first-half profit slid 28 percent. Shandong
Gold Mining Co. and Zijin Mining Group Co. fell more than 2
percent on speculation bullion-price gains were excessive after
the precious metal rose this week to a record. Jilin Aodong
Medicine Industry Groups Co. jumped the most in a month after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. upgraded drug makers to “overweight.”  “Japan’s debt crisis isn’t as serious a concern for China
as the European and U.S. credit crisis, but it may add to the
global uncertainty and shake investors’ confidence in the
economic outlook,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China
Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “Shrinking trading volumes show
liquidity is tight and sentiment is lackluster. That may be a
signal for further declines in the index.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, slipped 12.9 points, or 0.5 percent, to
2,541.09 at the 3 p.m. close. The CSI 300 Index lost 0.4 percent
to 2,810.02, led by financial and material companies. Trading
volume in the Shanghai gauge fell to 5.9 billion shares for a
second day yesterday, matching the level on Aug. 4, the lowest
since June 22.  The Shanghai gauge has lost 9.5 percent this year as the
central bank raised  interest rates  five times and ordered
lenders to set aside more cash as deposit reserves 12 times
since the start of 2010 to contain inflation that quickened to
the fastest pace in three years last month. The measure is
valued at 11.7 times estimated earnings, compared with a four-
year low of 11.57 set on Aug. 22, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Oversold Levels  China’s stocks are approaching oversold levels after the
Shanghai Composite fell 16 percent from this year’s April 18
high, according to technical analysis at Nomura Holdings Inc.  The Shanghai gauge may climb to a resistance level of
2,645, Tacky Cheng, a Hong Kong-based quantitative analyst at
Nomura, said in e-mailed comments yesterday. The 14-day relative
strength index for the stocks gauge declined to 30.28 on Aug. 22
before rebounding to 37.94 yesterday. A reading below 30
indicates it may be poised to rise.  China Life dropped 3.3 percent to 15.63 yuan, the lowest
since its listing in January 2007. First-half profit fell 28
percent from a year earlier to 12.96 billion yuan as declines in
the domestic stock market hurt investment returns. Ping An
Insurance Group Co. slid 0.9 percent to 40.61 yuan. China
Pacific Insurance Group Co. sank 1.4 percent to 20.10 yuan.  Metal Stocks  Chinese copper producers declined on concern slumping
global growth may hurt demand.  Japan ’s debt rating was lowered
by Moody’s, which cited “weak” prospects for economic growth
that will make it difficult for the government to rein in the
world’s largest public debt burden. U.S. stock futures fell
ahead of a report that may show American companies are ordering
less equipment as economic growth slows.  Jiangxi Copper Co., the biggest producer of the metal, lost
0.9 percent to 31.60 yuan. Shandong Gold Mining Co. tumbled for
a second day, losing 2.9 percent to 48.86 yuan. Zijin Mining
fell 2.8 percent to 5.50 yuan. John Wadle, an analyst at Mirae
Asset Securities (HK) Ltd., said in a report yesterday gold
prices, trading near record highs, are an “absurdity waiting to
correct.”  Goldman Sachs lifted its rating on health-care stocks to
“overweight” because they have lagged behind the performance
of other defensive stocks such as consumer companies, analysts
led by Helen Zhu wrote in a report today. They recommended
“domestic cyclical” companies in a report today, saying cement
stocks are “worth watching” after recent declines.  Jilin Aodong jumped 3.6 percent to 28.82 yuan, the most
since July 15. Shenzhen Salubris Pharmaceuticals Co. advanced
2.3 percent to 35.36 yuan.  China’s industrial and auto stocks were raised to
“neutral” from “underweight” at the  U.S. bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  