-- 
China to Appeal WTO Ruling on Raw-Material Export Controls

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-24T10:19:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/china-to-appeal-wto-raw-materials-finding-shen-says-correct-.html
China  will appeal a World Trade
Organization finding last month that its export controls over
raw materials including coke, zinc and magnesium violate global
rules, the Ministry of Commerce said.  “We still feel the country’s policies on exports of raw
materials don’t violate the rules of the WTO,” Shen Danyang,
spokesman at the ministry, said at a regular briefing in Beijing
today. A WTO panel  concluded  on July 5 that duties and quotas on
the export of raw materials violate global trade rules and gave
domestic companies an edge.  Complaints against China by the U.S., the European Union
and Mexico were bolstered by the WTO ruling, after an 18-month
investigation of Chinese quotas, export duties and license
requirements on industrial ingredients such as coke, zinc and
bauxite. The restrictions had stoked tensions between China and
its trading partners, who said the world’s fastest-growing major
economy adopted unfair commerce and currency policies.  The commodities at issue included magnesium, manganese,
silicon carbide, fluorspar, silicon carbide and yellow
phosphorus, which are used by the steel, aluminum, automotive
and chemicals industries.  China said the restrictions are necessary to conserve
exhaustible natural resources and ease overproduction and
emissions of carbon and sulfur gases from furnaces. The U.S.,
the EU and  Mexico  said the curbs discourage the export of
materials that are critical for their manufacturers, while
keeping them cheaper and readily available in China.  Rare Earths  The WTO panel said China was “unable to demonstrate” that
the export duties curtailed pollution. The ruling may prompt the
U.S. and the EU to make good on threats to file a WTO complaint
over Chinese restraints on exports of rare earths, a group of 17
elements used in  wind turbines , hybrid cars and defense
applications such as guided missiles.  The U.S. and the EU say China should apply the principles
of the ruling on raw materials to rare earths and scrap export
restrictions.  “The WTO decision sets the precedent to halt China’s
export restraints on rare-earth minerals,” Representative
Donald Manzullo, an Illinois Republican, said on July 6.  China produces more than 90 percent of the world’s rare
earths and has about 30 percent of global reserves of the
metals. The Chinese government has curbed output and exports
since 2009 to conserve resources and protect the environment,
leading to six-fold increases in prices for some rare earths and
souring ties with users including the U.S. and  Japan .  Shen denied that Chinese policies on exports of rare earths
violate WTO rules.  China hasn’t yet appealed the raw-materials decision at the
Geneva-based WTO. China must file its appeal by Sept. 2, when
the trade body is set to adopt the panel report.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  