-- 
China Military Continues Taiwan Focus, Pentagon Report Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-25T00:24:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/china-military-continues-taiwan-focus-pentagon-report-says.html
China  has kept its military’s focus
on  Taiwan  even as it is “contending with a growing array of
missions,” according to the Pentagon’s latest assessment of
China’s military power.  “China continued modernizing its military in 2010, with a
focus on Taiwan contingencies, even as cross-Strait relations
have improved,” the report said. The goal is “to deter Taiwan
independence and influence Taiwan to settle the disputes on
Beijing’s terms,” said the report released today.  “The balance of cross-Strait military forces and
capabilities continues to shift in the mainland’s favor,” it
said, through development of weapons such as the J-20 stealth
fighter and anti-ship ballistic missiles “intended to deter,
delay or deny possible U.S. support for the island.”  The report to Congress is an annual point of tension
between the world’s two biggest economies, whose leaders have
pushed to improve military ties. There have been other strains.
China opposed a 2010 U.S. decision to sell arms to Taiwan and
there were naval confrontations in 2009.  As of December, the  People’s Liberation Army  had deployed
between 1,000 and 1,200 short-range ballistic missiles to units
opposite Taiwan, said the report, including “missiles with
improved ranges, accuracies and payloads.”  “Relations have continued to improve over the past couple
of years, but, despite this political warming, China’s military
shows no signs of slowing its effort to prepare for a cross-
Strait contingency,” Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for
East Asia Michael Schiffer told reporters at the Pentagon today.  ‘Potentially Destabilizing’  China’s military, besides its Taiwan focus, is expanding
its capability for missions as far away as the  Indian Ocean  and
further into the Pacific region, according to the Pentagon.  “China’s sustained military investments have allowed China
to pursue capabilities that are potentially destabilizing to
regional military balances,” it said.  In the past year, “China made strides toward fielding an
operational anti-ship ballistic missile, continued work on its
 aircraft carrier  and finalized the prototype of its first
stealth aircraft,” the report said.  The report said the anti-ship missile, the DF-21D, has a
range exceeding 1,500 kilometers and a maneuverable warhead
designed to provide “the capability to attack large ships,
including aircraft carriers, in the western Pacific.”  Representative Duncan Hunter, a  California  Republican and
House Armed Services Committee member, today cited the report as
signaling “the danger of additional defense spending cuts.”  ‘Increasingly Aggressive’  The committee chairman, Representative Howard McKeon of
California, in a statement said the report “is a critical
tool” for lawmakers concerned that China has an “increasingly
aggressive modernization plan.”  The report reflects a “Cold War mentality,” said  Wang Baodong , a spokesman for the Chinese embassy in Washington. “We
hope the U.S. will take practical steps to work with China for
stable and healthy military ties by following the spirit of
mutual respect, mutual trust, reciprocity and mutual benefit,”
he said.  The report includes previous U.S. assertions that “some
weapons transferred to terrorist organizations in Iraq and
 Afghanistan ” were from Chinese companies.  China’s Ambition  China’s new J-20 jet, flown for the first time this year
during a visit to China by then Defense Secretary  Robert Gates ,
“highlights China’s ambition to produce fighter aircraft that
incorporates stealth attributes, advanced avionics and super-
cruise capable engines over the next several years,” the
Pentagon said.  The 2010 report didn’t discuss the J-20. Today’s report
said the J-20 is one of several weapons, as well as longer-range
conventional ballistic missiles, that may increase China’s
capability to attack U.S. bases in the region.  Still, the Pentagon “does not expect the J-20 to achieve
an effective operational capability” before 2018 and China
“faces several hurdles as it moves toward J-20 production,
including the mastery of high-performance jet engine
production,” it said.  Schiffer said that there has been no final decision on
whether the U.S. should sell advanced F-16s to Taiwan, an issue
of long-standing Chinese opposition.  “We work this question on a daily basis and, consistent
with our obligations under the Taiwan Relations Act, the  United
States  will provide to Taiwan the self-defense capabilities that
it requires,” he said.  Sale to Taiwan  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has promised Senator
 John Cornyn  of Texas that she will provide an answer by Oct. 1
as to whether the U.S. will proceed with a new sale.  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  makes the F-16 in Texas and Cornyn backs the Taiwan
sale.  The report contains a fuller discussion than past editions
of China’s suspected cyber warfare capabilities, including
“computer network attacks.”  U.S. government computers last year “were the target of
intrusions, some of which appear to have originated within the
PRC,” mainly for stealing information instead of malicious
attacks intended to destroy a network, the report said.  Still, cyber warfare capabilities could add to China’s
conventional military power in three key areas, including
“targeting network-based logistics, communications and
commercial activities,” it said.  Integrated Network  PLA theorists have coined the term “integrated network
electronic warfare” to describe using computer network
operations in tandem with traditional weapons strikes to disrupt
battlefield information systems, the report said.  The report struck a similar but not as strident a tone as
Air Force Vice Chief of Staff General Philip Breedlove during a
July 26 House armed services readiness panel hearing.  “Clearly, we are some number of decades ahead of the
Chinese in stealth and in the capability to employ stealth and
to do these high-technically pieces of work in the military,”
Breedlove told committee Chairman Randy Forbes of  Virginia .  Still, Breedlove said, China, “the way they’re intruding
into the nets of our manufacturers and our government, they’re
catching up at an increased rate because of what they learn.”  Increases in China’s defense spending, which trails only
that of the U.S., are also raising concern among neighboring
countries with competing territorial claims.  Tensions rose last year after the U.S. announced plans in
January to sell $6.4 billion of missiles, helicopters and ships
to Taiwan, which China considers a renegade province that should
be reunited with the mainland by force if necessary.  China broke off military-to-military talks with the U.S.
until late 2010, ahead of visits by Gates to Beijing in January
this year and Chinese President Hu Jintao’s state visit to the
U.S. that same month.  Chinese General Chen Bingde, chief of staff of the People’s
Liberation Army, visited the U.S. in May, further driving
efforts to improve ties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  