-- 
China Prepares to File Lawsuit After Conoco, Cnooc Spills

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-25T05:15:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/china-oceanic-authority-prepares-to-sue-for-spill-compensation.html
Chinese regulators are preparing to
file a lawsuit over two oil leaks at a ConocoPhillips and  Cnooc
Ltd (883) .-owned field that polluted at least 840 square kilometers in
Bohai Bay,  China ’s worst offshore spill in a year.  A legal team will be set up by the end of August, the State
Oceanic Administration said in a statement on its  website 
yesterday. The lawsuit will be filed on behalf of the government,
according to the maritime regulator.  The June spills at Penglai 19-3, the country’s biggest
offshore field, followed a leak in the  Yellow Sea  caused by a
pipeline explosion in July last year. The latest incident
prompted 200 fishermen in  Hebei province  to seek legal help to
claim compensation that may exceed 100 million yuan ($15.6
million),  China National Radio  reported.  “If Cnooc is ruled to pay any form of compensation, we
will certainly fulfill our commitment and do the right thing,”
Chairman Wang Yilin said at a media briefing in  Hong Kong 
yesterday after the company announced its first-half earnings.
“Cnooc is a responsible company and we honor our long-term
commitment to the country, people and the environment.”  Wang declined to comment on the financial compensation that
Cnooc or Conoco may have to pay, when asked by reporters to
provide an estimate.  The Houston-based oil producer, which operates the field,
said last week that while it “sincerely regrets” the spills,
it hasn’t seen any “demonstrated” cases of harm to marine life
from the incident. Three telephone calls to  ConocoPhillips China
Inc. ’s media department today seeking comment weren’t answered.  Production Loss  About 3,200 barrels of oil and oil-based drilling fluids
was leaked, according to  ConocoPhillips (COP)  China, which aims to
finish cleaning up the spills by the end of August.  Cnooc, the nation’s largest offshore oil explorer, cut its
full-year output estimate by as much as 9.3 percent after the
oil leaks disrupted operations at Penglai 19-3, the Beijing-
based company said yesterday. Production at two platforms at the
field was halted on July 13.  The leaks followed a pipeline explosion at Xingang port in
Dalian, Liaoning province, on July 16 last year that caused
about 1,500 metric tons (11,000 barrels) of oil to spill into
the Yellow Sea.  The  Gulf of Mexico  disaster last year leaked 4.9 million
barrels of crude, the U.S. government estimated. The worst U.S.
offshore spill led to a moratorium on operations in deep water
and prompted regulators to overhaul safety rules.  --Winnie Zhu in  Shanghai  and Guo Aibing in Hong Kong. Editors:
Ryan Woo,  Jane Lee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 