-- 
Citadel Securities Said to Be Firing Two Dozen Employees in Sales, Trading

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n ,   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 
2011-08-25T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/citadel-securities-said-to-be-firing-two-dozen-employees-in-sales-trading.html
Ken Griffin , founder of the $11
billion hedge fund Citadel LLC, is firing the last of the sales
people and traders in his securities business as it focuses on
electronic trading, according to two people briefed on the
dismissals.  The firings today of about two dozen employees come two
weeks after Griffin’s New York-based Citadel Securities said it
was shutting its equity-research group and its investment bank,
ending a three-year effort to build a business that the hedge-
fund manager said would rival Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Griffin, 42, founded Citadel Securities in late 2008 to
offer underwriting, stock, bond and derivatives trading and
advice on mergers, acquisitions and restructurings. After the
business failed to gain traction, Citadel decided to concentrate
on building its computer-based trading for institutions as well
as its options and equities market-making operations, which
started in 2002.  Devon Spurgeon, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Citadel,
declined to comment on the firings.  The sales and trading group had about 100 employees and the
investment bank had about 30 people before the shutdown. About
25 of the sales and trading workers will be transferred to other
jobs in the securities business, said the people familiar with
the decision, who asked not to be named because the information
is private.  Last week,  Wells Fargo & Co . said it will hire Brian Maier
and 24 other bankers from Citadel.  Citadel Securities, which employs about 200 people,
according to the people briefed on the move, reported earnings
of $81.6 million on revenue of $1.01 billion in 2009, most of
which came from market making, according to financial statements
filed in February 2010 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  While Citadel is paring the securities business, the firm’s
two main hedge funds climbed 14 percent this year through
yesterday, according to a person familiar with the fund’s
performance. Those funds lost 55 percent in 2008 as global
markets tumbled.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  