-- 
Citigroup Safer Investment Than BofA: Schorr

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-08-24T20:34:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/citigroup-safer-investment-than-bank-of-america-schorr-says.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, is a safer investment than  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
has more growth potential in emerging markets, according to
Glenn Schorr, an analyst with Nomura Holdings Inc.  Citigroup is less exposed to litigation and regulatory
risks tied to U.S. mortgages compared with Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, the country’s biggest mortgage
servicer, Schorr wrote in a note to clients today. New York-
based Citigroup also has a stronger capital buffer against
potential losses and earns more profit in high-growth markets
overseas, Schorr said.  Citigroup shares have tumbled 40 percent this year, erasing
the 43 percent gain the bank posted for all of 2010, while Bank
of America, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, has fallen 48
percent. The banks are trading at similar price-to-tangible book
ratios, Schorr wrote.  “Given similar valuations, we think Citi is the more
attractive opportunity,” wrote Schorr, who called the plunge of
both shares “overdone.” “Relative to BAC, the firm’s risk
profile is materially different.”  Citigroup had a Basel III Tier 1 common ratio of 6.8
percent at the end of the second quarter of this year, compared
with Bank of America’s 5.1 percent, Schorr estimated. The ratios
are measures of financial strength monitored by regulators.  Jerome Dubrowski, a spokesman for Bank of America, and John Diat, a Citigroup spokesman, declined to comment on the note.  Bank of America gained 69 cents, or 11 percent, to $6.99 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Citigroup rose $1.13, or 4.1 percent, to $28.45.  Mortgage-Servicing Portfolios  Citigroup, led by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit ,
54, has a $431 billion mortgage-servicing portfolio, about one-
quarter of Bank of America’s $1.6 trillion portfolio, Schorr
wrote. Bank of America, headed by CEO Brian Moynihan, 51, is
facing about $11.6 billion of outstanding mortgage-repurchase
claims compared with about $1 billion for Citigroup, according
to the note.  State attorneys-general from all 50 states last year
announced an investigation into allegations of shoddy servicing
and foreclosure practices. A group of the attorneys generals and
federal agencies have been negotiating a settlement with the
five largest mortgage servicers. Citigroup’s smaller mortgage
business also means that it will be less exposed than Bank of
America to a potential settlement, Schorr wrote.  “The headaches surrounding servicing issues are a much
smaller thorn in Citi’s side,” Schorr wrote. “Citi is less
vulnerable to mortgage-related litigation risks and elevated
servicing costs that continue to pressure Bank of America and
impede improvement in the bank’s bottom line.”  Citigroup, which says it has  operations  in more than 100
countries, also has more potential for profit growth in  Asia  and
 Latin America  than Bank of America, Schorr wrote. While some
investors think that Citigroup is more exposed to troubled
European countries such as  Greece , Ireland,  Italy , Portugal and
 Spain , the firm’s exposure is “roughly” in line or below Bank
of America’s, according to the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 