-- 
Cnooc to Start Fields After China Oil Spills, Deal Delay Cut Output Target

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-25T02:54:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/cnooc-posts-record-profit-beating-estimates-on-oil-prices-output-growth.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,  China ’s biggest offshore
oil explorer, will start new  oil fields  and stabilize production
after crude spills and a delay in completing an overseas
acquisition forced the company to cut its annual output target.  Beijing-based Cnooc reported a record half-year profit
yesterday and reduced its full-year output estimate by as much
as 9.3 percent because oil leaks disrupted operations at China’s
biggest offshore field, called Penglai 19-3, and unit Bridas
Corp. fell behind schedule for completing the acquisition of a
$7.1 billion stake in Pan American Energy LLC.  “Their focus in the second half is really to continue
stable production and to restart the Penglai output as soon as
possible,”  Neil Beveridge , a senior analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in Hong Kong, said by telephone. “Also, if they
can complete the Pan American deal before the end of the year.”  Cnooc has declined 21 percent in Hong Kong trading this
year, outpacing the 14 percent drop in the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index. (HSI)  The stock advanced about 3.5 percent to HK$14.72 as of
10:51 a.m. local time.  Net income grew 51 percent to a record 39.34 billion yuan
($6.2 billion) in the first six months from a year earlier,
beating analyst estimates, after crude prices rose and Cnooc
increased output by 13 percent to meet demand in the fastest-
growing major economy.  The Chinese energy explorer cut its annual output target to
331 million to 341 million barrels, from a goal of as much as
365 million barrels it had set in January. Oil and gas
production accounts for 99 percent of its income.  Production Loss  Cnooc and partner ConocoPhillips halted two platforms at
Penglai 19-3 in  Bohai Bay  on July 13, following two spills in
June. Operator Conoco said on Aug. 17 it had resumed partial
production.  China’s State Oceanic Administration is preparing to file a
lawsuit demanding compensation for harm to marine ecology from
the leaks, according to a statement on the authority’s website.  Startup of fields off the eastern coast would help offset
the Penglai crude output loss of 22,000 barrels a day, about 3
percent of Cnooc’s oil and gas production last year. Weizhou 11-
2 and Lufeng 13-2 fields in the  South China Sea  are scheduled to
begin operations in the second half, Cnooc  said .  “The revised target is certainly achievable,” said
Brynjar Eirik Bustnes, the Hong Kong-based head of Asia Pacific
oil and gas research at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “They’re talking
about two to three new fields starting. They need those just to
maintain production at the current level.”  Pan American Deal  Bridas, an  oil company  controlled by Cnooc and  Argentina ’s
billionaire Bulgheroni family, agreed in November to acquire BP
Plc’s 60 percent it doesn’t already own of Pan American Energy.
The deal, which was due to be completed by June 30, is subject
to government and regulatory approvals, Cnooc said yesterday.  Approvals may be delayed until after Argentina votes in a
presidential election in October, Yang Hua, Cnooc’s chief
executive officer, told reporters in Hong Kong yesterday.  “We certainly hope the deal can go through as early as
possible, but everyone has to be patient and wait for the
Argentine government to sort out their issues first,” Yang said.  BP expects the deal to be completed this year,  Robert Wine ,
the company’s London-based spokesman, said by e-mail.  Cnooc’s purchase of a one-third share in three exploration
blocks in  Uganda  is also awaiting approval by the African
country’s government, President Li Fanrong said. It may take as
many as six years, upon getting approval, to increase the output
of the oil blocks to 200,000 barrels a day, Li said.  Tullow Oil Plc, a U.K. explorer, said yesterday it expects
to complete the sale of its interests in the Ugandan exploration
blocks to Total SA and Cnooc for $2.9 billion in September.  Overseas Expansion  Cnooc has bid for at least $12 billion of assets overseas
since the beginning of last year to boost output and reserves.  The explorer last month agreed to buy bankrupt oil-sands
producer  Opti Canada Inc. (OPC)  for $2.1 billion in cash and debt,
after the $570 million purchase of a one-third stake in
Chesapeake Energy Corp.’s Niobrara shale-gas project.  Cnooc benefited from crude’s surge to the highest in more
than two years in the first half as it increased production by
13 percent. Revenue gained 51 percent to 124.6 billion yuan,
while output rose to the equivalent of 168.7 million barrels of
oil, according to yesterday’s statement.  Oil Prices   “It’s a record profit because of oil prices, and that
won’t repeat itself in the next half as crude has already pulled
back,” said Laban Yu, an analyst at Jefferies Group Inc in Hong
Kong.  Crude in  New York  averaged $98.50 a barrel in the first
half, compared with $78.46 a year earlier. The price has fallen
11 percent since the beginning of the second half, averaging
$92.02, on speculation a slowing U.S. economy and  Europe ’s debt
crisis will lead to weaker oil demand.  Cnooc will focus on maintaining “stable production of oil
and gas fields and implement measures ensuring that the revised
annual production targets can be achieved,” CEO Yang said. It
will also work on “the integration and management on overseas
acquisition projects and ensure that the projects progress
smoothly.”  --Chua Baizhen and Guo Aibing. With assistance from Winnie Zhu
in Beijing and Brian Swint in  London . Editors: Amit Prakash,
Ryan Woo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Baizhen Chua in  Hong Kong  at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Guo Aibing in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 