-- 
Coal India Should Shun Foreign Acquisitions, Investor Says

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-08-24T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/coal-india-should-shun-foreign-acquisitions-investor-says.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s largest
producer of the fuel, should refrain from overseas acquisitions
because the local market is more lucrative, the second-biggest
investor in the state-owned miner said.  “There are abundant reserves in India and returns on
investment are far higher here,” Oscar Veldhuijzen, a partner
at The Children’s Investment Fund Management UK LLP in  London ,
said by telephone yesterday.  The state-run miner is considering three acquisition
proposals, one each in  Australia , the U.S. and  Indonesia , as
demand for the fuel increases in Asia’s second-fastest growing
major economy. The rate of return on buying assets abroad will
be lower because the cost of purchases could be high, Coal India
Chairman N.C. Jha said on July 25.  “A company of Coal  India ’s size should be looking to
expand in different geographies,” said Deven Choksey, managing
director at Mumbai-based K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt.
“Fundamentally, I don’t think they are making a mistake. They
must do everything that helps them fulfill their supply
commitments.”  Coal India, which accounts for more than 80 percent of
India’s output of the fuel, needs the government’s permission to
acquire stakes in unlisted units of listed foreign companies. It
has also asked for relaxation of a requirement that investments
yield an annual return of at least 12 percent.  Environmental curbs and delays in land acquisitions have
hampered Coal India’s plan to increase production as utilities
in India build  power plants  to help meet a government target of
providing electricity for all households by 2012. Coal is used
to generate more than half the country’s electricity.  Cheaper, Better  “Indonesia is looking to impose a ban on exports of low-
calorific value thermal coal by 2014,” Veldhuijzen said. “It
is much more secure, cheaper and much better for Coal India if
the Indian government finally gets its act together and
accelerates environment and land clearances.”  The Children’s Investment Fund had a 1.04 percent stake in
Coal India as of June 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The government held 90 percent, after selling 10
percent in an initial public offering in October.  “Coal India is probably the best investment in  Asia ,”
Veldhuijzen said. “It is an attractive investment even at the
current price.” He did not comment on the fund’s other
potential investments in India.  Coal India shares have risen 9 percent since they were
listed on Nov. 4, compared with a 22 percent fall in the
benchmark Sensitive Index during the period. The stock, which is
the best performer in the index this year, fell 4.7 percent to
373.90 rupees at the close in Mumbai yesterday.  India’s estimated coal resource is 267.2 billion tons, of
which 105.8 billion tons are proved, according to the Coal
Ministry’s web site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  