-- 
Noda Joins Contenders for Japan PM as Moody’s Adds Pressure to Tackle Debt

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-08-25T03:30:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/contenders-to-replace-kan-emerge-as-moody-s-warns-on-japan-debt.html
Japan ’s Finance Minister  Yoshihiko
Noda  joined former Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  in vying to
become the next prime minister, as the downgrade of the
country’s credit rating adds pressure on the country’s next
leader to deal with the world’s largest public debt burden.  The  Democratic Party of Japan  candidates to replace Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  sent their representatives to the group’s
headquarters today in Tokyo before an Aug. 29 vote for a new
party chief. Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda , Agriculture Minister
Michihiko Kano and former Transport Minister Sumio Mabuchi were
among those who sent aides to the meeting on election ground
rules.  Kan, whose popularity plunged after the March earthquake
and nuclear crisis, will quit as early as tomorrow after passage
of energy and funding bills. Political instability helped prompt
yesterday’s credit rating downgrade by Moody’s Investors
Service, and Japan’s sixth prime minister in five years will
face the same challenge that stymied Kan -- opposition to tax
increases to rebuild disaster-ravaged areas and pay down debt.  “The next leader probably won’t have the guts to raise
taxes to fund reconstruction because he’ll be more worried about
losing popularity than Japan’s fiscal situation,” said
 Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief Japan economist at Credit Suisse in
Tokyo. “There’s nothing that implies we are on the right track
to achieving fiscal health.”  Other Candidates  Ex-Environment Minister  Sakihito Ozawa , lawmaker Shinji
Tarutoko, former Chief Cabinet Secretary Hirofumi Hirano and
lawmaker Hideo Hiraoka also sent representatives to the meeting
at DPJ headquarters. The winner will become prime minister
because the DPJ has a majority in the lower house of parliament.  Moody’s cut Japan’s debt rating one grade to Aa3, with a
stable outlook. Political turmoil has “prevented the government
from implementing long-term economic and fiscal strategies into
effective and durable policies,” the ratings agency said.  “The imminent change in the party’s presidency and the
election of a new prime minister reflect the factious nature of
the country’s politics,” Moody’s said.  The yen rose today after yesterday shrugging off a $100
billion package designed to cope with its persistent strength.
The currency strengthened 0.1 percent to 76.90 per dollar at
11:02 a.m. in  Tokyo . Japanese stocks rose, with the Nikkei 225
Stock Average up 1.4 percent after yesterday’s 1.1 percent drop.  Post-War High  The government plans to spend 19 trillion yen ($248
billion) over the next five years to rebuild from the disaster
that left 20,000 people dead or missing and another 80,000
homeless, including 6 trillion yen Kan compiled in two stimulus
packages.  Japan has amassed a debt of 943.8 trillion yen after two
decades of spending to boost an economy hobbled by the collapse
of an asset bubble in 1990 and lingering deflation that’s sapped
private demand. In addition, the yen’s rise last week to a post-
war high against the dollar threatens exports, a main driver of
economic growth.  Noda supports raising taxes to pay for reconstruction as
well as doubling the  sales tax  to 10 percent by the middle of
the decade to help contain the debt burden. Kaieda and Kano have
yet to outline their tax positions.  Reconstruction Stance  Maehara, who said in a June interview that the next
reconstruction package should be “at least” 10 trillion yen,
also said deflation should be defeated before increasing taxes.  The lack of specifics from the candidates in how Japan will
deal with its fiscal situation may have contributed to the
timing of the Moody’s announcement, analyst Takahide Kiuchi
said.  “By doing the downgrade on the eve of the leadership
election, it looks like Moody’s is trying to send a message to
the new administration to work on restoring fiscal health,”
Kiuchi, chief economist at Nomura Securities in Tokyo, said.  The Diet’s upper house will vote tomorrow on bills to
subsidize renewable energy and another authorizing the sale of
deficit bonds to finance about 40 percent of this year’s 94.7
trillion yen budget.  Maehara, 49, was the most popular choice to become the next
prime minister according to a Yomiuri poll published Aug. 8,
with 21 percent support, while Noda had 5 percent. One voter in
five had no preference. Kan’s approval rating fell to 18 percent
from 24 percent in July, the survey showed. The paper surveyed
1,059 eligible voters and gave no margin of error.  “The downgrade puts pressure on the new government,” said
Shirakawa. “But it’s still hard to imagine that they can show
some signs of improvement given the political disarray.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  