-- 
Credit Agricole May Post Drop in Quarterly Net on Greek Losses

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-08-24T11:32:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/credit-agricole-may-post-drop-in-quarterly-net-on-greek-losses.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s second-
largest bank by assets, will probably report a decline in
second-quarter earnings tomorrow following losses at its Greek
unit and costs tied to a rescue plan for the country.  Net income may fall to 187 million euros ($271 million)
from 379 million euros a year earlier, based on the average
estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The Paris-based
company announced on July 28 that Greek losses and costs related
to the aid plan would lower earnings by as much as 850 million
euros, though it still expected to report a profit.  Credit Agricole tumbled about 30 percent this month in
Paris trading as the sovereign debt crisis that started in
 Greece  more than a year ago threatened  Italy , where the bank has
about 960 branches. Concern spread to France, pushing the extra
yield investors demand to hold French government debt rather
than German bunds to a euro-era record and driving the benchmark
CAC 40 stock index down 15 percent in August.  “Credit Agricole is, with  BNP Paribas (BNP) , the bank most at
risk as investors are irrationally targeting Italy after
Greece,” said Christophe Nijdam, an analyst at AlphaValue in
Paris who has a “buy” rating on the stock. A European Union
plan to ask banks and other private investors to share losses on
their Greek sovereign debt holdings “opened the Pandora’s box
of losses for private investors, and it gives the blueprint for
default by other states,” Nijdam said.  Italy, Greece  Credit Agricole had about 10.8 billion euros in gross
exposure to Italian government debt at the end of 2010, data
from the European Banking Authority show. Among European banks
with headquarters outside of Italy, only Paris-based BNP Paribas
SA, Commerzbank AG of  Frankfurt  and Brussels-based Dexia SA
surpassed Credit Agricole’s level of Italian sovereign-debt
holdings.  BNP Paribas, France’s biggest bank, wrote down its Greek
government debt by 534 million euros on Aug. 2, the same day it
reported a 1.1 percent increase in second-quarter profit. BNP
Paribas, unlike Credit Agricole and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
France’s third-largest bank by assets, doesn’t operate a branch
network in Greece.  EU leaders agreed to a 159 billion-euro aid package for
Greece on July 21, the country’s second following a 110 billion-
euro bailout in May 2010. State asset sales will make up part of
the financing of that plan, while holders of Greek debt will
contribute an estimated 50 billion euros through a bond exchange
program.  Emporiki Losses  Greece will stick to fiscal targets set out under the
bailout plans even as the economy contracts more than forecast
this year, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said Aug. 22.
The economy may shrink between 4.5 percent and 5.3 percent in
2011, more than the previous forecasts by the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund .  Credit Agricole spent about 2.2 billion euros in 2006 to
amass a controlling stake in Emporiki Bank of Greece SA. The
French bank, which controls 96 percent of Emporiki, this month
got the Hellenic Capital Market Commission’s approval to buy out
other shareholders at 1.76 euros apiece, the bank said Aug. 9.
That’s 93 percent below the 2006 purchase price, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  “They’ve bought Emporiki very high, and now it’s very
heavy,” said Jacques-Pascal Porta, who helps manage 400 million
euros at Paris-based Ofi Gestion Privee and doesn’t own shares
in Credit Agricole. “Excluding Emporiki, the bank is solid.”  Goodwill Writedown  Emporiki’s second-quarter loss widened to 451 million euros
from 326 million euros a year earlier, the Athens-based lender
reported last month.  Credit Agricole  said on July 28 that “the
current and expected situation for the coming quarters makes
reaching Emporiki Bank’s goal for breakeven” by the end of 2012
more difficult.  Credit Agricole plans to write down the remaining 359
million euros of goodwill it carries on its books tied to
Emporiki in the second quarter, the French bank said. Overall,
the support plan for Greece will cost Credit Agricole about 150
million euros, the bank said last month.  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet, who took over
in 2010, said in December that he plans to chart a “less
adventurous” strategy for Credit Agricole over the next 10
years compared with the past decade. Annual net income should
rise to between 6 billion euros and 7 billion euros in 2014,
helped by a turnaround at the international retail-banking
business, Credit Agricole said in March.  Investment Bank  Annual profit rose 12 percent last year, helped by higher
consumer-banking earnings and lower provisions on assets the
bank is winding down. First-quarter net income doubled to 1
billion euros, boosted by higher revenue and lower provisions
from assets it’s reducing at the corporate-and-investment
banking division.  The assets Credit Agricole is winding down include unhedged
super-senior collaterized debt obligations linked to U.S.
residential mortgages, according to the bank’s website.  “Their investment bank has reduced risks a lot since 2008
but the unit’s earnings must have suffered in August like any
bank with important market activities, and this will be seen
especially in the third quarter,” said AlphaValue’s Nijdam.  Profit at the corporate and investment bank probably fell
to 314 million euros in the second quarter from 330 million
euros a year earlier, the analyst survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 