-- 
Crude Oil Declines From Four-Day High on U.S. Supplies, Japan Downgrade

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-08-24T12:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/crude-oil-declines-from-four-day-high-on-u-s-supplies-japan-downgrade.html
Oil dropped from the highest closing
price in four days in  New York  before a report forecast to show
crude stockpiles increased in the U.S., the world’s largest user
of the commodity.  Prices also slid after Moody’s Investors Service cut
Japan’s debt rating on the economic outlook for the third-
biggest oil user. The U.S. Energy Department report today may
show crude stockpiles rose 1.75 million barrels from 354 million
in the seven days ended Aug. 19, according to the median of 14
analyst estimates in the Bloomberg survey. Crude’s drop may be
limited because of delays in restoring exports from  Libya ,
according to Barclays Plc.  “After a stream of bad economic indicators, U.S. demand,
especially for gasoline, is in decline,” Thorbjoern Bak Jensen,
an analyst at Global Risk Management in Middelfart,  Denmark , who
predicts Brent will average $107 in the fourth quarter. “The
Japanese downgrade is definitely bearish news as spending has to
be reduced to stop further downgrades.”  Crude for October delivery was at $85.16 a barrel, down 18
cents, at 12:59 p.m. London time in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . It earlier rose as much as 0.5
percent. The contract yesterday jumped $1.02, or 1.2 percent, to
$85.44, the highest close since Aug. 17. Front-month futures
have risen 19 percent in the past year.  Brent Premium Narrows  Brent oil for October settlement lost 12 cents to $109.19 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract was at a premium of $23.93 to U.S.
futures, compared with $23.87 at settlement yesterday and a
record close of $26.21 on Aug. 19.  Moody’s Investors Service cut  Japan ’s credit rating by one
step, saying “weak” prospects for growth will make it
difficult for the government to rein in the world’s largest
public debt burden.  In Libya, rebels seized control of Muammar Qaddafi’s
compound in Tripoli yesterday after battling loyalist forces for
control of the capital for a third day.  Oil production may take a year to reach the previous total
of 1.5 million barrels a day, Ahmed Jehani, chairman of the
rebels’ stabilization team, told reporters yesterday in Dubai.
The country’s production fell to 100,000 barrels a day last
month, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “It will take a while for Libyan crude to come out,” said
 Anthony Nunan , an assistant general manager for risk management
at Mitsubishi Corp. in  Tokyo .  Gasoline Stockpiles  U.S. gasoline inventories increased 6.37 million barrels to
213.9 million last week, the industry-funded  American Petroleum
Institute  said yesterday. An earlier Bloomberg News survey of
analysts indicated that today’s government report may show they
fell 1 million barrels from 210 million. September gasoline
futures were down 0.89 percent on Nymex.  Crude supplies fell 3.34 million barrels to 347 million
last week, according to the API’s figures.The API collects
stockpile data on a voluntary basis from operators of
refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed for its weekly survey.  Oil-supply totals from the API and the department have
moved in the same direction 71 percent of the time in the past
year and 75 percent in the past four years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  