-- 
TCW Chief Stern Testifies He started Monitoring Gundlach’s E-Mails in 2009

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-08-24T23:48:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/tcw-chief-stern-testifies-he-started-monitoring-gundlach-s-e-mails-in-2009.html
TCW Group Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Marc Stern said he started monitoring the e-mails of
 Jeffrey Gundlach  in September 2009, three months before Gundlach
was fired and started DoubleLine Capital LP.  Stern testified for a second day in the trial that pits TCW
against Gundlach and three other former employees who joined
DoubleLine. Stern told jurors in state court in Los Angeles that
he wanted to find out what was happening after Gundlach appeared
to have lost interest in a number of issues that had come up in
what Stern said had been a “hostile” meeting on Sept. 3.  “It got me to think what else might be going on,” Stern
said. “I didn’t get the whole picture.”  Under questioning by TCW lawyer John Quinn, Stern said that
Gundlach had asked for the Sept. 3 meeting because thought he
was about to get fired. Gundlach and senior members of fixed-
income group at TCW raised various issues at the meeting,
including increased representation on the firm’s management
committee and a possible acquisition of TCW, Stern said.  At a follow-up meeting the next week, Gundlach and his
people showed no interest in discussing these topics any
further, Stern said.  “I was stunned,” Stern said, when Gundlach asked who had
called the meeting. “I believe we all looked at each other.”  Real Estate Agents  After the second meeting, he instructed TCW’s in-house
lawyer to monitor Gundlach’s e-mails, Stern said. He found out
that Gundlach was still in talks with Western Asset Management
Co., who he knew Gundlach interviewed with earlier that year,
and that he was in contact with real estate agents, Stern said.  TCW, based in  Los Angeles , fired Gundlach, 51, in December
2009 and sued him the following month after more than half of
its fixed-income professionals joined his new firm. TCW, a unit
of Paris-based Societe Generale SA, seeks $375 million in
damages, claiming Gundlach stole its  trade secrets , including
client portfolio data, to start DoubleLine.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  A Bigger Problem  Stern said that after the Sept. 3 meeting, where Gundlach’s
top lieutenants indicated they would leave too if Gundlach was
fired, he knew he had a bigger problem than he thought he did
before when he believed he might only lose Gundlach should he
either leave or be terminated. He began taking steps to bring in
a whole new asset-management team for the fixed-income assets,
Stern said.  TCW eventually bought Metropolitan West Asset Management
LLC to manage its fixed-income assets on Dec. 4, the day
Gundlach’s employment was terminated.  After Gundlach left, Stern said he was forced in January
2010 to cut the fees for the distressed-asset funds that
Gundlach had managed and to allow clients to withdraw their
investments from the funds, which they normally wouldn’t be
allowed to do, because of pressure generated by Gundlach’s
comments to the investors.  Under cross-examination by DoubleLine’s lawyer, Brad Brian,
Stern denied that TCW already was planning to fire Gundlach
before the Sept. 3 meeting. Stern said that people in and
outside TCW had been advising him to terminate Gundlach and that
he had been unwilling to do so.  Handwritten Notes  The jurors were shown handwritten notes from an Aug. 27
meeting Stern had with senior executives at TCW that included a
line that said: “Unfortunately, we’ve had to terminate JG for
cause.”  Stern denied that someone had been scripting a press
release at that meeting.  Stern also said he didn’t tell regulators or the U.S.
Treasury Department, which had contracted TCW to participate in
its Public-Private Investment Program to buy toxic mortgage
assets from banks, about his concerns that Gundlach, who managed
the PPIP fund, might leave or could get fired for doing
something illegal or that crossed the line.  The chief executive testified last week that he was worried
about such a “horror scenario” after he returned to active
management of TCW in June of 2009. Stern testified that his
number one concern was whether Gundlach, whose group managed
more than half of TCW’s $110 billion assets under management,
would stay at the company.  The DoubleLine lawyer also questioned Stern about his claim
that TCW didn’t fire Gundlach to save money. In an October 2009
e-mail to one of  Societe Generale ’s executives shown to the
jurors, Stern compares the 10 percent cut of TCW’s fees MetWest
was to get with the 35 percent that Gundlach’s group received
after their compensation was paid.  That amounted to $50 million in savings per year for TCW,
Brian said.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  