-- 
Czech Yield Declines to Record Low After S&P Upgrade; Koruna Appreciates

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s ,   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   G r e g   C h a n g
-- 
2011-08-24T17:02:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/czech-republic-sovereign-credit-rating-raised-to-aa-by-standard-poor-s.html
Czech five-year yields tumbled to a
record low after a two-notch rating upgrade by  Standard & Poor’s 
boosted demand for the European Union member’s government bonds.
The koruna strengthened against the euro and stocks rallied.  The five-year yield fell to 2.34 percent today, the lowest
closing level since Bloomberg started tracking Czech government
bond indexes in 1997. The PX stock index rose 1.6 percent, the
most in a week, led by a 4.1 percent jump for  Komercni Banka AS. (KOMB)   S&P lifted the country’s long-term foreign-currency debt to
AA- from A, it said in a statement today. That is its fourth-
highest grade and on par with euro-region Estonia. The move was
prompted by a change in S&P’s sovereign-rating criteria that
highlighted the government’s low indebtedness and the
“prudently managed and balanced economy,” according to the
statement.  “An upgrade for the  Czech Republic  has been in the
pipeline for some time and the government’s prudent fiscal
policies and commitment to fiscal consolidation have warranted
the improved rating,” Dina Ahmad, a strategist at BNP Paribas
SA in London, wrote in an e-mailed report today. “The ratings
upgrade will provide a clear boost to bonds.”  Czech public debt at 41 percent of gross domestic product
compares with 55 percent in neighboring  Poland , more than 80
percent for AAA-rated  Germany  and France and 120 percent for
 Italy , European Commission estimates for this year show.  The cost of insuring Czech debt using credit-default swaps
was little changed today at 117, according to data provider CMA.
That’s less than 163 for  France  and 125 for  Austria , both rated
AAA at S&P.  The new rating criteria put more weight on the “political
and economic profile” of central governments, S&P said today.  ‘Prudently Managed’  “Our ratings on the Czech Republic thus reflect its
prudently managed and balanced economy,” S&P said. “The
economy is characterized by low levels of foreign borrowing, a
deposit-funded banking sector with minimal lending in foreign
currency, and a largely independent central bank that has kept
both consumer-price inflation and interest rates at low
levels.”  Parliament’s budget committee today approved a pension
overhaul plan, sending the legislation to the final reading at
the lower house. The changes are to boost private retirement
savings and curb future budget deficits.  The administration has pledged to cut its fiscal shortfall
to less than the EU limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product
by 2013 from 4.7 percent last year and to have a balanced budget
from 2016. Prime Minister Petr Necas has said the overhaul of
pensions and healthcare are the main goals for his Cabinet.  Social Welfare Changes  “The upgrade also incorporates our expectation that the
proposed reform of the social welfare system, which aims to
reduce spending related to ageing, will be approved and
implemented,” S&P said today.  There are no reasons to raise the benchmark  interest rate 
from the record-low 0.75 percent as the global economic slowdown
adds to anti-inflationary risks for the Czech economy, central
bank Vice-Governor Mojmir Hampl said today. Inflation slowed for
a second month in July, with the annual rate down to 1.7 percent
from 1.8 percent a month earlier, a report on Aug. 9 showed.  The koruna, the best performer so far this year among more
than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, gained
0.5 percent to 24.327 per euro at 6:35 p.m. in  Prague . It is
poised to appreciate to 24.10 per euro after the S&P move,
according to BNP.  Raiffeisenbank AS lifted its short-term recommendation for
Czech bonds to “hold” from “sell,”  Michal Brozka , a fixed-
income analyst based in Prague, wrote in an e-mailed report. The
increase by two notches “is a surprise,” he said.  “This means that the Czech state and consequently other
Czech entities should have an opportunity to finance themselves
under better conditions,” Brozka said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Chang at   gchang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Kirkland at   skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  