-- 
Danish Housing Rescue Faces Bank Opposition as Risks Add to Market Stress

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-08-25T11:23:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/danish-housing-rescue-faces-bank-opposition-as-risks-add-to-market-stress.html
Denmark ’s banks signaled they will
resist a government plan to have Danes buy new homes before they
sell their existing properties, arguing the proposal adds risk
to an economy already stressed by a bank crisis and recession.  The minority coalition of Prime Minister Lars Loekke Rasmussen this week unveiled the plan in an effort to breathe
life into the housing market after the number of properties for
sale soared to a record last month. Banks representing more than
80 percent of the country’s home loan market are warning
that the government’s approach will leave households more
indebted and impede a balanced recovery.  At Copenhagen-based Danske Bank A/S, the country’s biggest
lender, home loans are always based on “an individual
assessment, but as a rule of thumb the first property needs to
have been sold,” said Martin Sandau, chief consultant at
Danske, in an e-mailed reply to questions. “Before the housing
market ground to a halt, the practice of buying before selling
was more widespread, but the current market is too uncertain.”  A housing slump and banking crisis have turned Denmark into
 Scandinavia ’s worst-performing economy. Rasmussen, who faces an
election no later than November, wants to spend 10.8 billion
kroner ($2.1 billion) through 2013 in measures to jumpstart
growth as he competes with opposition proposals to spend even
more. The stimulus won’t help Denmark escape an adjustment that
may be “long and perhaps painful,” according to Jes Asmussen,
Svenska Handelsbanken AB’s chief economist in Copenhagen.  Fielding Criticism  “A relaxation of credit policies could bring some
customers into trouble,” said Lars Holst, a vice director at
Copenhagen-based Nykredit A/S,  Europe ’s biggest issuer of
covered bonds backed by mortgages.  Banks are already fielding criticism from Denmark’s
 financial regulator  that they gave too many risky property loans
during the economic boom years, exacerbating the country’s
financial crisis. Denmark’s lenders, which wrote down 94 billion
kroner of bad loans in 2009 and 2010, also face “large” loan
losses this year, mostly in real estate and farming, the
regulator said in May.  Danish lawmakers today agreed on the country’s fourth bank
bill since 2008 in an effort to spur takeovers and sidestep the
European Union’s harshest resolution rules. The package, which
amends laws that triggered senior creditor losses in bank
insolvencies, will allow the state to assume troubled lenders’
bad loans in the event of takeovers. The cost of the plan, which
also allows merging banks to tap the depositor guarantee fund,
will be borne by the industry.  Creditor Losses  The country’s banking crisis has claimed two regional
lenders this year, triggering a liquidity squeeze that  Standard
& Poor’s  warns could push 15 more banks into default over the
next three years. Most of Denmark’s roughly 120 banks can’t
access international funding markets after the country’s
resolution laws triggered senior creditor losses.  House prices dropped 1.9 percent in the first quarter from
the final three months of 2010, the  Association of Danish
Mortgage Banks  said this week. The development marks a
“significant worsening” in the  property market , the
association said.  At the Danish unit of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the biggest Nordic
lender, customers may be allowed to double up on their mortgages
if such a move is financially viable for the individual, the
bank said. That may not hold for a large portion of the
population.  Unable to Pay  More than one in eight Danes between 18 and 70 said it’s
either “very likely” or “likely” that they won’t be able to
pay their fixed costs should a new crisis hit the Nordic
country, according to an Ugebrevet A4 survey published Aug. 15
by newswire Ritzau Finans. One in four said they feared losing
their job, the survey showed. Unemployment held at 5.9 percent
in June after rising in May, Statistics Denmark said July 28.  “If a bank adviser decides that a customer’s finances are
strong enough, he can win approval to buy a new home before the
old one is sold,” Nordea press spokesman Claus Christensen said
in an e-mailed reply to questions. “In practice, it will
generally be difficult to do this” given the market today
compared with before the financial crisis. “The starting point
is that a customer needs to sell his existing property before
buying a new one.”  House prices  will fall 1 percent this year and grow only
0.3 percent in 2012, the  Finance Ministry  said yesterday.  Optimistic Estimate  “The estimate seems a little optimistic,” said Las Olsen,
an economist at Danske Bank. “Prices are already about 5
percent lower than at the turn of the year.”  Denmark will post a budget deficit equivalent to 3.8
percent of gross domestic product this year and 4.6 percent in
2012, the Finance Ministry estimates. Debt will widen to 44.4
percent of the economy next year from 43.6 percent in 2011.  The government’s proposals to end the recession and boost
the housing market are “more politics than economics,” said
Jacob Graven, chief economist at Sydbank A/S. “The
possibilities for stimulating growth are limited all over the
world, including Denmark. We may be looking at a double-dip.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  or
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  