-- 
Derivatives ‘Data Gaps’ May Hide Threats to Financial Stability

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-08-24T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/derivatives-data-gaps-may-hide-threats-to-financial-stability.html
Regulators’ efforts to monitor
threats to financial stability posed by over-the-counter
derivatives may be hampered by “data gaps” in information held
by so-called trade repositories, global supervisors said.  Such shortfalls may undermine attempts to use repositories
as a tool to improve market oversight, the  Committee on Payment
and Settlement Systems  and the  International Organization of
Securities Commissions  said in a report published today.  The lack of details on the value of individual trades
“presents a potential gap in the data that authorities may
require to fulfil” their mandates, the organizations said. More
data on collateral would also allow regulators to “better
assess exposures, counterparty risk and ultimately systemic
risk,” they said.  Regulators from the Group of 20 countries have sought to
toughen rules on OTC derivatives such as credit-default swaps
after the failure in September 2008 of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and the rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , two of
the largest CDS traders. The value of outstanding OTC
derivatives was about $601 trillion at the end of last year,
according to the  Bank for International Settlements .  The G-20 said in September 2009 that transactions
involving standardized OTC derivatives should pass through
clearinghouses and be logged in trade repositories, on the basis
this would make the global financial system more stable and
improve regulators’ ability to monitor what is taking place on
the markets.  Examples of trade repositories include the New-York based
Trade Information Warehouse, run by the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp., and TriOptima AB’s  Global OTC Derivatives
Interest Rate Trade Reporting Repository .  Alternative Information Sources  Alternative sources of information for regulators may need
to be proposed if ways can’t be found to expand the remit of
trade repositories, according to the report. Two options include
requiring more information from clearinghouses or banks.  Regulators and the financial industry should work together
to harmonize the codes used by clearing houses, exchanges and
trade repositories to identify different companies, the
organizations said. Banks and other firms active in trading OTC
derivatives should also develop a “standard classification
system” for these securities, they said.  IOSCO brings together national market regulators from over
100 countries to co-ordinate their rules and share information.
The CPSS, which is  part of the BIS , is made up of central
bankers from developed and emerging economies and sets standards
for payment, clearing and settlement systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 