-- 
Deutsche Bahn, Holcim Lead Backlash Against EU Antitrust Raiders in Courts

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-08-24T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/deutsche-bahn-holcim-lead-backlash-against-eu-antitrust-raiders.html
Deutsche Bahn AG,  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) ,
Cemex SAB and six other companies filed challenges to evidence
gathered in European Union antitrust probes as more firms turn
to the courts to rein in the power of the region’s competition
watchdog.  Deutsche Bahn, the German railway company, filed a lawsuit
at the EU’s Court of Justice in Luxembourg over what it called 
an unjustified  “fishing expedition”  by investigators who
raided its offices in March seeking evidence of antitrust
infractions.  The complainants follow  Intel Corp. (INTC)  in demanding a fairer
treatment from the Brussels-based European Commission, which has
the power to fine companies as much as 10 percent of yearly
sales for carving up markets or abusing market dominance. The
commission has suffered recent defeats in court appeals over
antitrust penalties, with Edison SpA and Unipetrol AS having
fines totaling 75.6 million euros ($109 million) tossed out.  The backlash shows “a general unease of the business
community with the wide-ranging powers of the commission,”
which is ‘both the judge and the investigator at the same
time,” said Simon Hirsbrunner, a lawyer in the Brussels office
of  law firm  Heuking Kuehn Lueer Wojtek.  Holcim, the world’s second-largest cement-maker, Cemex,
 HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , Schwenk Zement,  Italmobiliare SpA (ITM)  and
 Buzzi Unicem SpA (BZU)  have also called on the court to rule that
regulators asked for too much data in an investigation into an
alleged cartel between cement producers, according to recent
court filings posted on the EU’s Official Journal.  Getting regulators to return documents may not aid a
company’s defense if officials have already seen them “even if
they cannot be used in evidence,” said Suzanne Rab, a lawyer at
King & Spalding LLP in  London .  ‘Misinterpreted and Ignored’  Cristina Arigho, a spokeswoman for the commission, declined
to comment on the court challenges because the cases are
ongoing.  Intel, the world’s largest maker of computer chips,
argued in 2009 that regulators “misinterpreted and ignored
evidence” in its court appeal against a 1.06-billion euro fine,
the biggest ever issued by European regulators. The EU’s General
Court hasn’t scheduled a date to hear that case brought by the
 Santa Clara , California-based company.  The commission’s powers contrast with its counterparts in
the U.S., where a court decides antitrust penalties. The
situation has sparked calls for more checks and balances during
probes as well as a faster appeals process in the EU courts.  Admit ‘Violation’  Companies under investigation aren’t required to answer
questions that would force them to admit to a violation of EU
law, EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia   said  in May.
They are “obliged to provide other factual information and pre-
existing documents.”  While EU law gives regulators “draconian and intrusive
powers” to request information and make unannounced inspections
to company offices, “such powers are not without legal
limits,” said Rab.  Deutsche Bahn and some of its units were raided by EU
regulators on March 29. The antitrust agency said it was
checking on allegations that Deutsche Bahn Energie was favoring
the group’s rail freight arm over others.  The Berlin-based rail operator said the commission went far
beyond its authority with a “disproportionately wide”
inspection. It is asking the court to order regulators to return
copies of documents they made during the raid.  Nexans SA (NEX)  and  Prysmian SpA (PRY) , two companies investigated for
a suspected power cable cartel, are challenging the EU for
copying executives’ computer hard drives during raids in 2009.
No court date has yet been set for the case and the filings
didn’t prevent regulators sending formal antitrust complaints to
the companies last month.  ‘Not Clear’  Hirsbrunner said it’s “not clear” that regulators have
the right to make copies of entire drives during raids. An
official would previously make copies of files containing a
keyword in the presence of a company representative.  Holcim faced “an exorbitant cost in terms of staff and
time” to respond to regulators’ “disproportionate” request
for “a vast amount of detailed information on 15 group
companies,” the company said in a  filing  made in June and
published in the Official Journal last week.  The EU sought information on transactions, imports and
exports, production and market shares for a 10-year period and
refused to extend a 12-week limit to comply with the order,
Holcim said.  “It becomes a commercial issue,” said Hirsbrunner at
Heuking Kuehn Lueer Wojtek. “You cannot dedicate part of your
business units just to reply to requests for information.”  ‘Excessive and Disproportionate’  Cemex complained that the EU request for it to process
millions of items of data was “excessive and
disproportionate,” the company said in its  court filing .
HeidelbergCement  said  the EU exceeded its powers by requiring
the company “to analyze and evaluate the requested
information.”  Italmobiliare , which owns part of  Italcementi SpA (IT) ,  Buzzi
Unicem ,  Schwenk Zement  and  Cementos Portland Valderrivas SA  also
complained about the EU request. The companies, along with
Holcim and Cemex, are being probed by regulators for possible
antitrust violations including price fixing and import limits.  Lafarge SA (LG) , the world’s largest cement maker, is also
involved in the probe and hasn’t appealed against the EU
information request that it answered earlier this year,
spokeswoman Claire Mathieu said in a telephone interview.  Independent Hearing Officer  Regulators are planning to allow an independent hearing
officer to rule on some defense rights at an earlier state in
investigations under reforms to be drafted this year “to fully
ensure the fair treatment of companies,” Almunia said in May.  HeidelbergCement, Buzzi Unicem, Schwenk Zement,
Italmobiliare, Italcementi, Intel, and Prysmian didn’t respond
to e-mails seeking comment. Nexans and Cemex declined to comment
on the cases, while Holcim declined to immediately comment.
 Deutsche Bahn  declined to comment beyond referring to the court
filing.  The cases are Deutsche Bahn  T-289/11  and  T-290/11 , Cemex  T-
292/11 , Holcim  T-293/11  Italmobiliare  T-305/11  Buzzi Unicem  T-
297/11 , Schwenk Zement  T-306/11 , HeidelbergCement  T-302/11 ,
Cementos Portland Valderrivas  T-296/11 , Nexans  T-135/09 ,
Prysmian  T-140/09  and Intel T-286/09.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 