-- 
Diageo’s Raki Sales to Fall After $2.1 Billion Mey Purchase

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-08-24T12:31:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/diageo-s-raki-sales-to-fall-after-2-1-billion-mey-purchase-2-.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , which today completed
the purchase of Turkish raki spirits producer Mey Alkollu
Ickiler Sanayi & Ticaret AS for $2.1 billion, expects the local
market for the drink to shrink 6 percent this year amid higher
alcohol taxes.  Diageo expects its sales of the aniseed drink to decline in
2011 before rising again from next year, Galip Yorgancioglu,
chief executive officer of Mey Icki, said at a press conference
in Istanbul today.  Sales are falling after Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government increased taxes on alcohol to meet budget
targets and introduced restrictions this year on its sale.
Diageo doesn’t expect “extreme treatment’ of alcoholic drinks
by the Islamist-leaning government in the long-run, said Andrew Morgan, Diageo’s president for  Europe , at the press conference.  The purchase of the producer of Yeni Raki, Diageo’s biggest
in a decade, will double the world’s largest liquor maker’s
sales in emerging markets, Morgan said. Diageo is looking to
acquire more assets in those countries, he said.  Mey’s share of  Turkey ’s 45 million-liter a year raki market
is expected to remain the same this year at 83 percent,
Yorgancioglu said. Mey, which also sells wines through its Kayra
unit, vodka under the Binboa brand, and brandies, expects total
sales of about $1 billion this year, he said.  Gin, Liqueur  Mey Icki controls about 86 percent of Turkey’s gin market
and 55 percent of the liqueur market, Yorgancioglu said. The
country’s gin market is about 1 million liters a year and that
for liqueurs 550,000 liters, he said.  Diageo was required to sell Hare Liqueur and Maestro gin to
secure Turkish regulatory approval for the purchase, the anti-
trust regulator said Aug. 22.  The sale process of the brands and a distillery where they
are produced will begin after it hires an adviser, Yorgancioglu
said. “We will soon start the process after the adviser
completes value assessment,” he said.  Diageo dropped as much as 40 pence, or 3.6 percent, to
1,082 pence in London trading and traded at 1,097 pence at 1:15
p.m. The stock has lost 7.4 percent of its value this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 