-- 
Dish May Seek Sprint Aid for Mobile Web, Credit Suisse Says

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-08-24T20:15:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/dish-may-seek-sprint-aid-for-mobile-internet-credit-suisse-analyst-says.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-
largest U.S. satellite-television provider, may seek help from
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  to offer wireless  Internet service  rather
than build its own network, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  Dish sought government permission this week to use airwaves
it has acquired to offer mobile high-speed Internet to millions
of users. The Englewood, Colorado-based company could save
billions of dollars by working with Sprint, said  Jonathan Chaplin , a Credit Suisse analyst in New York.  “It makes the most sense for Dish to partner with
Sprint,” Chaplin said yesterday in a telephone interview. “It
gets Dish into the market at a much lower cost.”  Sprint is open to other mobile-Internet partnerships after
signing a 15-year, $9 billion deal with LightSquared Inc. last
month to share network expansion costs and equipment, said  Scott
Sloat , a spokesman for the third-biggest U.S. wireless carrier.
Marc Lumpkin, a spokesman for Dish, declined to comment.  Dish would need $6.1 billion to build its own national
high-speed Internet infrastructure, compared with $2 billion to
pay Sprint to set up a network, Chaplin said. Operating a
network would cost Dish $2.7 billion a year, compared with $1.1
billion a year to pay Sprint to do it, said the analyst, who
expects Sprint to outperform the broader market and has no
recommendation on Dish.  Chaplin has been at Credit Suisse for two years and
previously covered telecommunications for seven years at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Triple-Play  Dish rose 25 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $22.24 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Overland Park , Kansas-
based Sprint fell 14 cents to $3.45 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Charlie Ergen , Dish’s chairman, is seeking to expand the
company beyond pay-TV service to compete with Comcast Corp. and
others that offer packages of video, Internet and phone service,
the so-called “triple-play” offer.  While Dish may not rule out a deal eventually, it won’t
cement an agreement with Sprint anytime soon, said  Walter Piecyk , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York.  Dish’s filings with the Federal Communications Commission
say the company will use an Internet technology called Long Term
Evolution Advanced, a newer version of the current LTE standard
that will offer faster download speeds. LTE Advanced isn’t
commercially available yet, and FCC negotiations and approval
will take time, said Piecyk, who is neutral on Sprint.  ‘Nothing Imminent’  “I wouldn’t expect anything in the near term,” Dish Chief
Executive Officer Joseph Clayton said earlier this month on a
conference call, referring to the company’s mobile Internet
strategy. “There’s nothing imminent.”  Dish may also consider a partnership with wireless carrier
 MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , which needs more airwaves and has
the financial resources to help build a network, Piecyk said.
Jim Mathias, a spokesman for Dallas-based MetroPCS, didn’t
return phone and e-mail messages.  Dish agreed to acquire satellite companies DBSD North
America Inc. and TerreStar Networks Inc. out of bankruptcy this
year, gaining access to wireless airwaves. It asked the FCC this
week to clear the acquisitions of those assets and for license
waivers to offer the mobile Internet service.  Dish trails DirecTV among U.S. satellite subscribers.
Sprint is behind  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T Inc. in mobile-phone
clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  