-- 
Disney Eliminates Marvel Marketing Staff in Restructuring

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-08-24T00:59:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/disney-eliminates-marvel-marketing-staff-to-as-film-unit-looks-for-savings.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  eliminated Marvel
Studios’ marketing department, two years after acquiring the
movie producer and comic-book publisher, as the media company
looks for ways to reduce film costs.  Marvel’s marketing will be absorbed into Disney’s film
studio, the person said. The jobs of Dana Precious, Marvel’s
executive vice president of worldwide marketing, and two others
were cut.  The move comes as Disney, which reported a 60 percent drop
in film-unit earnings in its most recent quarter, attempts to
cut spending on pictures. The studio suspended production of
“The Lone Ranger,” starring  Johnny Depp , this month when it
was unable to cut the $250 million budget.  “It’s our intention to take a very careful look at what
films cost, and if we can’t get them to a level that we’re
comfortable with, we think that we’re better off actually
reducing the size of our slate,” Disney Chief Executive Officer
Bob Iger said in an earnings call with analysts on Aug. 9.  Disney referred requests for comment to Marvel’s outside
spokesman, Paul Pflug, who declined comment.  Disney bought Marvel for $4.24 billion in 2009, and is
scheduled to release its first film featuring Marvel characters,
“The Avengers,” in June.  Marvel’s “Thor” and “Captain America” were released by
Viacom Inc.’s  Paramount Pictures  under an arrangement that that
Disney ended this year.  The Marvel staff cuts were reported earlier by the industry
blog Deadline Hollywood.  Disney, based in Burbank,  California , rose 9 cents to
$32.11 today in New York Stock Exchange trading. The shares have
declined 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  