-- 
Djokovic Is Top Seed at U.S. Open Tennis; Fish Gets Highest American Slot

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-24T17:44:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/djokovic-is-top-seed-at-u-s-open-tennis-fish-gets-highest-american-slot.html
Novak Djokovic is the top men’s seed
at the  U.S. Open , while Mardy Fish is the highest-seeded
American, the  Unites States Tennis Association  announced in an
e-mailed release.  Ranked No. 1 on the ATP World Tour, Djokovic is seeking his
first U.S. Open title. The 24-year-old from Serbia, who lost in
the final last year, has won three Grand Slam tournaments,
including the Australian Open and Wimbledon this year, and has
just two losses for the season.  Fish, seeded eighth, is the highest-placed American in a
major championship for the first time. The 29-year-old has
reached the semifinals of his last four tournaments, including a
title at the Atlanta Tennis Championships on July 24 and runner-
up finishes in Los Angeles and  Montreal . His play over the past
few weeks earned him the top spot in the U.S. Open Series  bonus
challenge , making him eligible for added  prize money  during the
U.S. Open.  The U.S. Open, the final Grand Slam event of the season,
runs Aug. 29-Sept. 11 at the National Tennis Center in Flushing
Meadows, New York, with $1.8 million prizes for the men’s and
women’s singles champions. Fish would earn an additional $1
million bonus if he wins his first career Grand Slam next month.  Rafael Nadal, the defending champion from Spain, is the
second seed, followed by Roger Federer of Switzerland and  Andy Murray  of Britain.  Andy Roddick , the most-recent American winner
in 2003, is the second-highest U.S. seeded man at No. 21, with
John Isner at No. 28.  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark received the No. 1 women’s
seed yesterday, corresponding with her top ranking by the WTA.  The full men’s and women’s draw will be revealed tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ; 