-- 
Dollar Holds Gains Amid Speculation Before Bernanke Speech; Aussie Falls

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-08-25T06:18:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/dollar-holds-gains-amid-speculation-before-bernanke-speech-german-data.html
The dollar maintained yesterday’s
gains against a majority of its most-traded peers amid
speculation on what steps Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may outline tomorrow to stimulate the  U.S. economy .  The greenback rose versus  Australia ’s dollar as investors
bet on whether Bernanke will signal willingness for a third
round of so-called quantitative easing, or QE3, in a speech at
Jackson Hole, Wyoming. The euro held yesterday’s decline versus
the dollar after a private report showed German  consumer
confidence  is the lowest in almost a year.  South Korea ’s won
fell amid slumping sentiment.  “I’d have a bias toward more U.S. dollar buying as I just
don’t see Bernanke as coming out and delivering anything too
dramatic on the QE3 front,” said Mike Burrowes, a currency
strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “There’s
a bit of a battle going on between risk sentiment and a
reassessment of QE3.”  The dollar traded at $1.4416 per euro as of 7:07 a.m. in
 London  from $1.4414 in  New York  yesterday, when it gained 0.2
percent. It rose 0.2 percent to $1.0451 per Australian dollar.
The U.S. currency fetched 77.08 yen from 76.98 after rising 0.4
percent yesterday. The euro bought 111.11 yen from 110.96.  The greenback has moved within a two-cent range against the
euro this week, between $1.4347 and $1.45, before Bernanke
speaks at the Kansas City Fed’s annual economic conference. The
address will come amid speculation that a slowing U.S. economy
and  Europe ’s debt crisis will hobble global growth.  Fed’s Options  Bernanke told Congress in July the Fed’s options to bolster
the economy include increasing the average maturity of its bond
portfolio and cutting the  interest rate  on excess reserves, as
well as buying more debt and keeping rates low.  At last year’s  Jackson Hole  conference, he said the Fed
would “do all that it can” to ensure a continuation of the
economic recovery and that buying more debt might be warranted
if growth slowed. Two months later, the Fed announced a $600
billion second round of asset purchases that ended in June.  U.S. jobless claims declined by 3,000 to 405,000 in the
week ended Aug. 20 from the previous week, Labor Department
figures will show today, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. Bookings in the U.S. for goods meant to last at
least three years rose 4 percent in July, a Commerce Department
report showed yesterday. That compared with economists’
prediction for a 2 percent increase.  QE3 ‘Unlikely’  “The market hoping for QE3 to be announced will be
disappointed,” said Khoon Goh, head of market economics and
strategy at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “We might see
a little bit of rise in the  U.S. dollar  in the near term on the
back of any pull-back in equities.”  The euro held yesterday’s decline versus the dollar after
Nuremberg, Germany-based market research company GfK SE forecast
its consumer sentiment index will decline to 5.2 next month, the
least since November 2010, from a revised 5.3 in August.  That follows data this week that showed business confidence
in Europe’s biggest economy was at the lowest in more than a
year and investor sentiment slid the most in five years.  European Union lawmakers will hear from finance chiefs on
Aug. 29 in Brussels about steps to manage the debt crisis. The
European Parliament’s economic committee received confirmation
that European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  will
attend, said Marjory van den Broeke, a spokeswoman for the
assembly.  Resilient Yen  The yen failed to weaken even after Japanese Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  announced yesterday a $100 billion
funding program intended to encourage the exchange of “yen-
denominated funds to foreign currencies.”  “It’s hard to imagine the government’s package will have a
strong impact” on the yen,  Masafumi Yamamoto , chief currency
strategist at Barclays Bank Plc in Tokyo, wrote in a research
note today. The plan doesn’t include coordinated action with the
Bank of  Japan  in monetary easing or further intervention, he
wrote.  The Japanese currency has climbed 6.4 percent over the past
three months versus its U.S. counterpart and touched a post-
World War II record of 75.95 per dollar on Aug. 19. A stronger
yen makes Japanese-made products costlier overseas and reduces
the value of overseas sales by the nation’s exporters when
repatriated.  Weaker Won  The won fell for a second day after the Bank of Korea said
its sentiment index fell to 99 in August from 102 in July. A
reading below 100 indicates people are more pessimistic than the
average between the first quarter of 1999 and the second quarter
of 2008.  “We would be cautious with positioning in the Korean won
in particular ahead of tomorrow’s speech” by Bernanke,  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based senior currency strategist at Scotia
Capital, the investment banking unit of Bank of Nova Scotia,
wrote in a note to clients. “Equity market disappointment could
drive an eventual test of the August topside at 1096.05,
depending on the severity of any potential disappointment.”  The currency declined 0.5 percent to 1,087.66 per dollar,
after slipping 0.4 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  