-- 
Dollar Advances Amid Speculation Before Bernanke Speech; N.Z. Dollar Drops

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-08-24T21:16:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/dollar-advances-versus-major-peers-amid-speculation-before-bernanke-speech.html
The dollar gained versus 15 of its
16 most-traded peers amid speculation about whether Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will say this week the central
bank is willing to provide more stimulus for the economy.  Currencies of higher-yielding countries including New
Zealand and South Africa weakened. Treasuries fell amid bets
Bernanke will say in a speech Aug. 26 in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming ,
that the Fed will take steps to spur growth that may include a
third round of debt purchases, or quantitative easing. The yen
traded at almost a post-World War II high versus the greenback.  “We’ve seen a little bit of a relief for the dollar
today,” said  John Doyle , a strategist in  Washington  at the
currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc. “No one knows what
Bernanke is going to say. If he comes out and doesn’t announce
any further easing, there’s a bigger upside for the dollar than
downside.”  The dollar rose 0.2 percent to $1.4414 per euro at 5 p.m.
in New York, from $1.4442 yesterday. The yen depreciated 0.4
percent to 76.98 per dollar, from 76.66 yesterday, after gaining
as much as 0.2 percent earlier. It reached a postwar high of
75.95 on Aug. 19. The Japanese currency fell 0.2 percent to
110.96 per euro, compared with 110.70.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, was among the
biggest losers against the greenback. It fell 0.9 percent to
82.84 U.S. cents.  South Africa ’s rand slid 1.2 percent to
7.2657. The Canadian dollar gained against all of its major
peers after data showed a rise in durable-goods orders in the
U.S., the nation’s biggest trading partner.  U.S. 30-year bond yields climbed as much as 17 basis
points, or 0.15 percentage point, the most since Aug. 11, to
touch 3.66 percent, the highest level in a week.  Two-Cent Range  The dollar has traded in a two-cent range against the euro
this week, between $1.4347 and $1.45, before Bernanke speaks at
the Kansas City Fed’s annual economic conference in Jackson
Hole. The address will come amid speculation that a slowing  U.S.
economy  and  Europe ’s debt crisis will hobble global growth.  “People are very reluctant to position into the event
Friday,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency
research in New York at Nomura Holdings Inc. “People don’t
expect anything earth-shattering to come out of it, but they’re
reluctant to commit themselves to new ideas.”  Bernanke told Congress in July the Fed’s options to bolster
the economy include increasing the average maturity of its bond
portfolio and cutting the  interest rate  on excess reserves, as
well as buying more debt and keeping rates low.  Foreshadowed Purchases  At last year’s  Jackson Hole  conference, he said the central
bank would “do all that it can” to ensure a continuation of
the economic recovery and that more debt purchases might be
warranted if growth slowed. Two months later, the Fed announced
a $600 billion second round of asset buys that ended in June.  The euro rose against the Swiss franc after falling earlier
as German business confidence dropped to the lowest level in
more than a year. The Ifo institute in Munich said its business
climate index, a measure of German business confidence based on
a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 108.7 in August from
112.9 in the prior month.  The 17-nation currency was up 0.3 percent to 1.1472 per
franc after earlier weakening as much as 0.6 percent. The Swiss
currency fell 0.5 percent to 79.59 centimes to the dollar.  European Union lawmakers will hear from EU finance chiefs
Aug. 29 in Brussels about steps to manage the debt crisis. The
European Parliament’s economic committee received confirmation
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  will attend,
said Marjory van den Broeke, a spokeswoman for the assembly.  44 Percent Yields  Greek government two-year notes slumped, driving yields up
to a euro-era record of 44 percent. The ECB bought Italian and
Spanish government bonds today, according to people familiar
with the transactions, to hold down borrowing costs and keep the
region’s crisis from spreading.  The yen gained earlier after Finance Minister  Yoshihiko
Noda  announced a $100 billion funding program for Japanese
business intended to encourage the exchange of “yen-denominated
funds to foreign currencies.”  “Measures  Japan  has put in place are really designed to
help companies deal with yen strength, rather than try to turn
yen strength around,” said  Adam Cole , global head of currency
strategy in  London  at Royal Bank of Canada, the nation’s largest
lender. “That significantly reduces the risk of intervention to
weaken the yen, and is why the currency is gaining.”  Moody’s Investors Service said it lowered Japan’s
sovereign-credit rating one step to Aa3 with a stable outlook,
citing “weak” prospects for economic growth that will make it
difficult to rein in the world’s largest public debt burden.  Dollar Gains  The dollar advanced over the past week against all but one
of nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Currency Indexes, rising 0.61 percent.
Sweden’s krona, the top performer, gained 0.58 percent.  New
Zealand ’s dollar lost the most, 0.6 percent.  The greenback dropped earlier today after orders for U.S.
durable goods rose more than forecast in July, boosting appetite
for higher-yielding assets. Bookings for goods meant to last at
least three years rose 4 percent, the most in four months,
Commerce Department data showed.  Canada’s currency gained less than 0.1 percent to 98.71
cents per  U.S. dollar .  The U.S. economy grew from April through June at a 1.1
percent annual pace, slower than initially estimated, economists
in a Bloomberg survey forecast before a Commerce Department
report Aug. 26.  Mexico ’s peso tumbled to the lowest in almost two weeks
versus the greenback on concern America’s recovery is faltering.
The U.S. purchases about 80 percent of Mexico’s exports. The
peso weakened 1.4 percent to 12.4811 per dollar and touched
12.4865, the weakest level since Aug. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  