-- 
Drought-Baked Fields in U.S. Dimming 2012 Wheat Outlook as Prices Rebound

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-08-24T20:04:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/drought-baked-fields-curb-2012-u-s-wheat-outlook-as-prices-gain.html
A yearlong drought from  Kansas  to
Texas has created the driest conditions on record for farmers
preparing to plant winter wheat, dimming crop prospects for a
second straight year in the U.S., the world’s largest exporter.  Dry weather already has cut output of hard, red winter
wheat, the most common U.S. variety, by 22 percent from 2010,
government data show. If drought persists into the planting
months of September and October, next year’s harvest will be
even smaller, and prices on the Kansas City Board of Trade may
jump 50 percent to $13 a bushel, said Dan Manternach, a wheat
economist with researcher Doane Advisory Services in  St. Louis .  In Texas, where agriculture losses from the drought were a
record $5.2 billion, soil moisture is so depleted that plants
may not emerge from the ground without more rain,  Texas  A&M
University said in a report yesterday. Kansas, Texas and
Oklahoma were the biggest growers of winter wheat in 2010 and
supplied 28 percent of all wheat varieties produced in the U.S.  “Most of us are gamblers enough that we will plant a wheat
crop,” said John Goodknight, who farms 3,500 acres in
Chattanooga, Oklahoma, and saw his wheat output drop by a third
this year. “We just live and work in the conditions we have.
It’s exceedingly hard to make it work with drought.”  While global supplies are rising as exporters in  Russia  and
Eastern Europe recover from a drought in 2010, Kansas City wheat
futures that closed yesterday at $8.6525 a bushel may jump to
$10 by the end of September, Doane’s Manternach said. If drought
spurs farmers to plant fewer acres than last year in the Great
Plains, the largest U.S. growing region, or a winter freeze
damages crops, prices may reach $13 by March, the highest price
since 2008, he said.  ‘Extreme Price-Rationing’  “For hard, red winter wheat in particular, we’re already
down to very tight stocks because of this year’s drought,”
Manternach said in a telephone interview. “A second year in a
row of poor yields in the southern Plains would be cause for
extreme price-rationing.”  Kansas City futures, which track the price of hard, red
winter wheat, have surged 20 percent in the past year, topping
the 9.8 percent gain for wheat on the  Chicago  Board of Trade,
where the contract reflects primarily soft wheat grown in the
Midwest.  Wheat futures for December delivery slipped 6.25 cents, or
0.7 percent, to settle at $8.59 today on the Kansas City Board
of Trade, after earlier touching $8.69, the highest since June
14. The price dropped to a nine-month low on July 12, and has
rebounded 24 percent since then.  Planting Delay  Winter-wheat planting can be delayed until November,
especially in southern growing areas in Texas where winters are
milder. Hard, red winter wheat, used to make bread, goes dormant
until about March, and is harvested in May and June. The crop
accounted for 46 percent of U.S. wheat output in 2010, while
other winter varieties supplied 21 percent.  There is still time for crops to get enough moisture to
allow plants to emerge from the soil before winter dormancy, and
if rains return in the spring of 2012, yields might return to
normal, said Jim Shroyer, an extension agronomist at  Kansas
State University  in  Manhattan .  Wheat planted in dry soil has a higher likelihood of being
damaged by winter freezes, Shroyer said in a telephone
interview. Areas of Kansas may need 6 inches (15 centimeters) to
10 inches of rain to break the drought and rebuild subsoil
moisture, he said.  “As long as the surface is moist and we get good
germination and emergence, we can kind of limp along with
moisture here and there until we get the soil profile full,”
Shroyer said.  ‘Critical Time’  Southwest and south-central Kansas, a region that includes
Sumner County, the biggest wheat producer, had the least
precipitation on record in the first seven months of this year,
said Mary Knapp, the state climatologist. July was also the
hottest on record for the region, she said.  Only about 4.3 inches of rain fell in southwest counties
from Jan. 1 to July 31, Knapp said by telephone from Manhattan,
Kansas. The region needs about 9.4 inches of rain to break the
drought and rebuild subsoil moisture, she said.  “We’re getting into the critical time period for winter-
wheat planting and canola planting,” Knapp said. “We have a
narrow time frame to get sufficient rainfall to moisten not only
the top four inches or so of soil, to get the canola or wheat
up, but also to have a continuation of water down into the soil
profile, so you get some root development.”  Most-Severe Drought  In Texas, the biggest winter-wheat grower after Kansas last
year, 99.9 percent of the state is suffering from drought,
according to the University of Nebraska Lincoln’s U.S. Drought
Monitor. The one-year drought is the  most severe  on records
going back to 1895, according to a report from state
climatologist John Nielsen-Gammon.  After losing non-irrigated crops this year, including
cotton and corn, farmers “have good reason to worry that they
won’t make a winter-wheat crop either” in 2012, Texas A&M’s
AgriLife Extension Service said in a report yesterday.  Oklahoma  has had the driest 10-month period on record, and
July was the hottest ever for the state, according to the
 Oklahoma  Climatological Survey.  “We are in a situation where we have been extremely dry
for coming close to a year,” said Mike Schulte, the executive
director of the Oklahoma Wheat Commission in  Oklahoma City . “If
we get ourselves into a situation where we don’t receive rain
even by October, then we will have problems.”  This year’s winter-wheat harvest was 94 percent complete,
as of Aug. 21, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .
The agency estimates  production  of the hard, red winter variety
at 794.4 million bushels, down from 1.018 billion in 2010.  Crop ‘At Risk’  This fall, 16 percent of U.S. output of the variety may be
“at risk” of being sown late or not planted at all because of
the drought, Mike Tannura, the president of forecaster T-Storm
Weather LLC in Chicago, said in telephone interview.  If rain doesn’t come, some farmers may opt to leave fields
fallow, waiting until spring to sow other crops including
sorghum or cotton, said Darrell Holaday, the president of
Advanced Market Concepts in Wamego, Kansas.  The drought may “cut acreage again quite significantly,”
Holaday said in a telephone interview. “If it doesn’t rain, I
think they’ll just let it set, fallow it all out.”  The most recent La Nina weather pattern, which lasted from
late 2010 to early 2011, contributed to the drought, according
to the  National Weather Service ’s Climate Prediction Center. The
agency issued a “La Nina Watch” on Aug. 4, indicating that the
weather  pattern , a period of cooling equatorial waters of the
 Pacific Ocean , may redevelop.  Another La Nina  La Nina may cause  drought  to persist in Texas and southern
Oklahoma through November, while northern Oklahoma and Kansas
may see some improvement, the National Weather Service said.  “The current outlook looks like development of another La
Nina system, which is not positive,” Mark Welch, an extension
economist at  Texas A&M  in  College Station  who specializes in
grain markets, said in a telephone interview. “The outlook is
for another drier-than-normal winter with above-normal
temperatures. We just hope we can get a crop in and enough of a
storm pattern to get it going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  