-- 
DryShips in Arbitration With Cosco Over Ship-Charter Payments

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-08-24T18:42:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/dryships-in-arbitration-with-cosco-over-ship-charter-payments.html
DryShips Inc. (DRYS) , the New York-listed
operator of commodity carriers and drilling rigs, said it’s in
arbitration with  China  Cosco Holdings Co. over payments for
ships chartered out to the Chinese company.  The dispute covers three vessels and the process is taking
place in London, DryShips Chief Financial Officer Ziad Nakhleh
said today by phone.  “We are in arbitration and when the arbitration award
comes out we’ll be able to get the money back,” Nakhleh said.  The  Baltic Exchange , the world’s biggest shipping bourse,
said yesterday some members “raised concerns” over the alleged
failure to make charter payments. Cosco, the world’s third-
biggest owner of dry bulk commodities vessels, has had three
ships seized in the U.S. and  Singapore  in the past two months,
legal filings show.  Cosco, based in Tianjin, China, was locked into long-term
contracts at rates higher than market prices, according to the
legal filings made for the ship seizures.  The Financial Times earlier reported DryShips Chief
Executive Officer George Economou as saying that he may consider
seeking more ship seizures. Nakhleh declined to comment.  Calls to Cosco’s media-relations and investor-relations
offices earlier today went unanswered. A later call to its
offices in the U.K. also wasn’t answered and a message left with
the media relations department in the U.S. wasn’t immediately
returned. Cosco in an Aug. 16 statement said involving the media
“may potentially further complicate the existing situations.”  Cosco owned 24.8 million deadweight tons of dry bulk ships
in April, ranking it third globally behind Nippon Yusen K.K. and
Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, according to data on the website of Mitsui.
Cosco also had an additional 222 ships on charter as of Dec. 31,
according to its annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  