-- 
East European Swiss-Franc Loan Defaults May Fan Euro-Area Crisis, UBS Says

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-08-24T09:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/east-europe-s-swiss-franc-loans-may-fan-euro-crisis-ubs-says.html
The euro-region debt crisis may
deepen as eastern European borrowers who took loans in a
strengthening Swiss franc struggle to repay western European
banks, UBS Wealth Management said.  Lenders including  Unicredit SpA (UCG) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and Bayerische Landesbank have
80 billion Swiss francs ($101 billion) of  household debt  in
Hungary, Poland and Croatia, emerging-markets analyst Kilian Reber said. Borrowers there face higher payments after the franc
gained 9.5 percent against the forint, 14 percent against the
zloty and 9 percent against the kuna in the past three months.  “Increased stress on Hungarian and also Polish and
Croatian borrowers with Swiss-franc denominated mortgages and
consumer loans could send shockwaves through the euro zone,”
Reber said yesterday in a phone interview from Zurich. “This is
not something that’s on the radar screen of most investors.”  He assigns a 20 percent to 30 percent chance of a stronger
franc triggering defaults in eastern  Europe  and fanning the
euro-region debt crisis by forcing western European banks to
seek new bailouts.  The franc is this year’s best performing currency, even
after the Swiss central bank cut  interest rates  Aug. 3 and
pledged to stem further appreciation. Investors consider the
currency a haven as the  U.S. economy  slows and Europe’s debt
crisis pushes toward Italy and Spain.  Franc Loans Rise  Eastern European borrowers sought franc-denominated loans
last decade to escape high interest rates in their local
currencies. More than 60 percent of  Hungary ’s household debt is
denominated in francs, equivalent to 16 percent of gross
domestic product, according to UBS Wealth Management. That
figure is about 10 percent in Poland and Croatia, it said.  More than one in ten Swiss-franc loans is non-performing in
Hungary, compared with 1.5 percent in Poland and 6 percent in
Croatia, according to UBS Wealth Management.  Under the wealth manager’s base case, damage to western
European banks will be limited as the Swiss economy slows and
the central bank works to halt the franc’s advance. It forecasts
the franc, which touched a record high of 272 forint on Aug. 10,
will weaken to 210 forint in 12 months.  Western European lenders, which control three quarters of
eastern Europe’s banking industry, have scaled back loans to
each other as the debt crisis worsens and the global economy
slows.  Bank Stocks  Banks deposited 128.7 billion euros ($185.7 billion)
overnight with the European Central Bank Aug. 22, more than
three times this year’s average, instead of lending the money to
other companies. Banks also borrowed 555 million euros from the
ECB’s overnight marginal lending facility, up from 90 million
euros Aug. 21.  European bank stocks have lost 20 percent as  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA declined 43 percent
and 39 percent. The cost of insuring European bank debt against
default reached a record yesterday, with the Markit iTraxx
Financial Index of credit-default swaps linked to senior debt of
25 European banks and insurers rising to 252 basis points,
compared with 149 after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed
in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  