-- 
Heating Oil Gains on Hurricane Threat, Durable Goods Report

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-08-24T19:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/heating-oil-gains-on-hurricane-threat-durable-goods-report.html
Heating oil rose on speculation that
Hurricane Irene may disrupt East Coast refinery operations and a
gain in durable goods orders indicated more demand for diesel.  Futures gained as Irene, a Category 3 storm, churned
through the Bahamas on a path forecast to take it toward  North
Carolina ’s Outer Banks this weekend, the National Hurricane
Center said. Bookings for goods meant to last at least three
years rose 4 percent in July, the most in four months, according
to a Commerce Department report.  “We will probably end up shutting down the six refineries
in the New Jersey Philly area,” said  Andy Lipow , president of
Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Heating oil for September delivery rose 1.82 cents or 0.6
percent, to settle at $2.9607 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Futures have gained 3 percent in four
straight days of increases.  The U.S. East Coast, or  Padd 1 region , has 10 operating
refineries with a capacity of 1.21 million barrels a day,
according to Energy Department data. The area accounts for 7.1
percent of total U.S. operating capacity.  Irene’s top winds reached 120 miles (193 kilometers) per
hour today as it churns 250 miles southeast of Nassau, Bahamas,
according to a National Hurricane Center advisory at 2 p.m.  After Irene finishes with the Bahamas tomorrow, the storm,
a Category 3 on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale, is expected
to arc north, passing near North Carolina’s Outer Banks and
striking southern  New England  late Aug. 28 or early Aug. 29,
according to the hurricane center track.  Distillate Demand  Demand for industrial, trucking and home-heating fuels rose
8.4 percent last week to 3.85 million barrels a day, the Energy
Department reported today. On a four-week average, consumption
was 8.3 percent higher than a year earlier.  “There’s a good demand number this week,” said  Sander Cohan , an analyst with Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield,  Massachusetts .  Supplies of heating oil and diesel rose 1.73 million
barrels to 155.7 million, the highest level since the week ended
Feb. 25.  Gasoline for September delivery rose 0.18 cent to settle at
$2.8784 a gallon on the exchange. The contract has lost 7.5
percent this month.  Prices were little changed as stockpiles of the motor fuel
increased 1.36 million barrels in the week ended Aug. 19 to
211.4 million.  “This is the time of year you can almost bank on draws,”
said  David Pursell , a managing director at Tudor Pickering Holt
& Co. LLC in Houston.  Gasoline Demand  Motorists in the U.S. typically use the most fuel between
Memorial Day in late May and Labor Day, which falls on Sept. 5
this year.  Gasoline demand, measured by deliveries to wholesalers,
fell 2 percent to 9.01 million barrels a day, the lowest level
in four weeks. Measured on a four-week average, consumption was
2.4 percent below a year earlier.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.3
percent to $3.575 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  