-- 
ECB Can Ease Dollar-Market Tensions If Necessary, Bundesbank Official Says

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-08-24T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/ecb-can-ease-dollar-market-tensions-if-necessary-bundesbank-official-says.html
The  European Central Bank  “stands
ready” to ease tensions in U.S. dollar funding of European
banks if they arise, according to  Bundesbank  board member
Andreas Dombret.  “Without a doubt, unsecured U.S. dollar funding markets
have tightened somewhat recently,” Dombret said during a speech
in  New York  yesterday. “If need be, the ECB stands ready to
mitigate potential bottlenecks, based on the swap agreement with
the Fed.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB loaned $500 million over seven days
last week to one euro-area bank, its first such action in six
months, as signs emerged that lenders faced renewed pressure to
raise funds in the U.S. currency. In the aftermath of the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, the ECB also
offered one-month and three-month dollar term auctions in
response to strains in money markets.  Dombret, who doesn’t sit on the ECB’s Governing Council,
added that the “lion’s share” of German and European banks
have already used “rather benign” market conditions in the
first part of this year to secure “an over-proportional part --
or even all -- of their overall 2011 funding needs in the
capital market segment.  “We are very far away from the situation we witnessed in
2008,” Dombret said. The ECB received no bids yesterday in its
7-day dollar tender at a fixed rate of 1.1 percent.  Commenting on the German and euro-area economies, Dombret
said that while markets have recently experienced turmoil, the
underlying development of the real economy “is not as dire as
these turbulences might suggest.”  Data yesterday showed German business confidence fell to
the lowest in more than a year after growth in  Europe ’s largest
economy slowed to 0.1 percent in the second quarter and the DAX
Index plunged almost 25 percent since late July.  Dombret said the recovery will continue, “albeit at a more
moderate pace than before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  