-- 
Ecopetrol Misses $1.34 Billion Target for Share Sale Amid Market Rout

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-08-24T22:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/ecopetrol-misses-target-for-1-34-billion-share-sale-on-global-stock-slump.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , Colombia’s largest oil
company, said it fell short of its target to raise 2.5 trillion
pesos ($1.34 billion) from the nation’s second-largest share
sale amid a global slump in equities that trimmed demand.  State-controlled Ecopetrol received orders for about 2.4
trillion pesos of stock, Chief Executive Officer  Javier Gutierrez  said today at a news conference in Bogota. Results are
preliminary, he said. The sale ran from July 27 until Aug. 17.  “We didn’t have it easy,” Gutierrez said. “A lot of
companies had to postpone plans.”  A 14 percent drop in oil in New York in the last month and
a slide in U.S. equities markets slowed demand for the offering,
to be used to fund Ecopetrol’s $80 billion expansion plan this
decade. The stock tumbled during the sale below a discounted
price of 3,608 pesos a share for buyers paying cash.  “With low  oil prices  and weak financial markets, investors
sought refuge in other sectors,” said Juan David Pineros, an
oil industry analyst for Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s biggest
brokerage.  Ecopetrol fell 45 pesos, or 1.2 percent, to 3,640 pesos in
Bogota trading. The stock has slipped 11 percent this year, the
same amount as Colombia’s benchmark Colcap index.  “They weren’t expecting what happened in the markets,”
Rodrigo Nieto, who helps manage about 100 billion pesos in funds
at Cia. de Profesionales de Bolsa in Bogota, said prior to the
announcement. “That fall slowed the placement a bit.”  No Conversion  Ecopetrol won’t need to convert foreign sales of oil into
local currency this year to fund investments after the share
sale, said Chief Financial Officer Adriana Echeverri.  Colombia’s peso has gained 6.8 percent this year against
the dollar, the biggest gain among major currencies in  Latin
America  partly as rising oil exports increase the flow of
dollars into the country, according to Bloomberg data.  “We don’t see that we’ll need it,” she said after today’s
press conference in Bogota.  The sale is Colombia’s largest since Ecopetrol raised 5.7
trillion pesos in its initial public offering in November 2007.
The stock has more than doubled since then.  Ecopetrol’s production will rise to about 1.3 million
barrels a day in 2020 as the company searches for new reserves
in Colombia,  Peru ,  Brazil  and the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico , Gutierrez
said. Second-quarter output climbed to 727,200 barrels a day
from an average 594,400 barrels a year earlier.  Crude oil for October delivery fell 28 cents to settle at
$85.16 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Prices are
up 19 percent over the past year.  Ecopetrol is searching for new reserves in Colombia after
government inroads against guerrillas increased security, luring
investors including billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s Grupo Carso SAB
and  Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA.  Kidnapped Workers  Rebel attacks against infrastructure probably have fallen
this year compared with prior years, Gutierrez said.  Even so, rebels kidnapped oil workers in Colombia earlier
this year and have sabotaged pipelines owned by Ecopetrol, which
hasn’t reported production losses because of the attacks.  Colombia’s President  Juan Manuel Santos  said Aug. 12 that
he plans a separate sale of as much as 10 percent of the
government’s stake in Ecopetrol to finance infrastructure
projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  