-- 
Medicare Spending Slows as Hospitals Improve Care: Peter Orszag

-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 
2011-08-24T00:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/medicare-spending-slows-as-hospitals-improve-care-peter-orszag.html
And now for some good news: Medicare
spending growth has been slowing noticeably. So far this fiscal
year,  expenditures  have actually declined slightly, according to
the  Congressional Budget Office .  Part of the decline this year reflects timing shifts in
certain Medicare payments, which will soon be reversed. Even
adjusting for these shifts, though, Medicare spending is still
up less than 4 percent so far this year.  The 2011 numbers come on the heels of relatively slow
growth in 2010 as well. Last year, Medicare spending rose just a
little more than 4 percent.  Compare this with an almost 12 percent average annual
growth rate in Medicare spending since the early 1970s. During
those four decades, there were only four years in which costs
rose by less than 5 percent -- and three of those four years
were in the late 1990s, when payments were cut back as part of
the 1997 budget deal.  We don’t yet have enough data to tell for sure what’s
causing the recent deceleration in Medicare spending -- or
whether it will last. But some evidence suggests it may be a
shift toward value in the health-care sector. Various hospital
executives have told me they have already begun to prepare for
less generous reimbursement from Medicare as the new federal
health-care-reform law takes effect and there is a greater focus
on value. They are therefore trying to become more efficient
now. That’s the discussion taking place in the strategic
planning process at Mount Sinai Medical Center in  New York ,
where I recently joined the board of directors.  Trimming Medical Expenses  To some degree, the Medicare slowdown also reflects the
weak economy. Spending increases for people with private
insurance have also slowed, as consumers have cut back on
everything in the past couple of years, including health care.
Even though copayments and deductibles in Medicare are usually
small, Medicare beneficiaries, too, seem to be having fewer
elective procedures and unnecessary doctor visits. This year,
for example, Medicare has seen a reduction in the number of
costly hip, knee and other major joint replacements, which are
sometimes more a choice than a necessity.  Medicare’s growth slowdown has been much greater than that
of private health insurance, however, as Maggie Mahar has noted
on the Century Foundation’s  Health Beat  blog. In the 12-month
period that ended in June 2011,  Standard & Poor’s  index for
commercial health insurance rose 7.5 percent, while its Medicare
index rose only 2.5 percent. The S&P data show that Medicare
spending growth has been falling fairly steadily over the past
18 months.  So why are we seeing an especially rapid decline in
Medicare growth?  The Mount Sinai experience may be instructive. From
September 2010 to May 2011, the hospital’s Medicare revenue rose
only 2 percent over the previous year -- in part because the
number of inpatient cases fell. Why was that? One important
reason was that the number of patients readmitted to the
hospital within 30 days of discharge was 5 percent less than
what it had been the previous year.  Reducing readmissions is one of the objectives of the
federal health-care-reform law enacted last year. Historically,
nearly 20 percent of Medicare patients have been  readmitted  to a
hospital within 30 days of being discharged, in part because
their doctors and other health-care providers have  not managed 
patient handoffs very effectively. The Affordable Care Act
included, among other remedies, a modest penalty for hospitals
with high readmission rates.  At Mount Sinai, patients at risk of rehospitalization are
now identified when they first come in and assigned to a special
team of doctors and nurses that works to minimize that risk.
Apparently, the effort is working. And as more hospital systems
begin to use  information-technology  systems to measure and
manage value, we could see progress in other areas of patient
care as well.  It is much too soon to know whether the Medicare slowdown
we’re seeing this year is a temporary blip or the beginning of a
new era. But even if the slowing does represent the early stage
of a shift toward value and reducing the fat in the health-care
system, the improvement will not be sustainable unless certain
further changes are made in the existing payment system.  Penalty for Quality  Reimbursement from Medicare is still primarily based on how
many services hospitals perform rather than on how well they
care for patients, so hospitals are often financially penalized
for improving value and quality. The Mount Sinai program to
reduce readmissions, for example, is costly for the hospital
both because of the extra expense of running it and because
fewer readmissions means less revenue. Ken Davis, the president
and chief executive officer of Mount Sinai, says the hospital
won’t be able to afford continuing the successful program if the
financial incentives remain so skewed against it.  The health-care law includes a variety of provisions meant
to shift Medicare’s payment system toward a focus on quality.
Yet many of these aspects of the law are under attack in
Congress. It is therefore important for the new supercommittee -
- created by the recent debt-limit deal to find $1.5 trillion in
further savings in the federal budget -- to protect and even
strengthen the effort to base the Medicare payment system on
value.  Another innovation of the Affordable Care Act is the
Independent Payment Advisory Board, a panel of health-care
experts charged with devising proposals to reduce Medicare
spending growth and boost the quality of care. Many health-care
providers are vehemently opposed to this board, because they
fear it will be an ax that cuts too bluntly, making their
financial condition even more precarious. But blunt spending
reductions wouldn’t require a new board. Congress has been adept
at ratcheting down payments, but it has struggled with the
challenge of shifting toward value-oriented payments. The
payment advisory board is intended to take some of the politics
out of the effort.  Those doctors and hospital administrators who are already
shifting their efforts toward greater health-care value may
therefore want to reconsider their stance toward the advisory
board. With Congress in gridlock, it is one of the few
mechanisms we can use to reward their efforts.  In any case, the best way for health-care providers to keep
the board from making any changes to Medicare is to ensure that
the growth in spending stays low.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup and a former director of the Office of Management and
Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 