-- 
North Korea May Offer Concessions on Nuclear Weapons After Medvedev Talks

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-08-25T10:12:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/medvedev-holds-nuclear-talks-with-north-korean-leader-kim-1-.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
proposed gas, electricity and railway projects during talks with
North Korea that may lead to concessions on Kim Jong Il’s
nuclear weapons program.  A return to six-party talks aimed at dismantling the
communist nation’s nuclear weapons program may lead North Korea
to declare a moratorium on the development of missiles and
atomic bombs, Medvedev’s spokeswoman,  Natalia Timakova , said
after the two leaders met yesterday.  “I have a very positive impression of the meeting,”
Medvedev told reporters following the talks at military base
near Ulan-Ude in Siberia. “It was candid, substantive and
covered a lot of different ground.”  Medvedev is seeking to boost Russia’s global image as a
mediator and to help end a three-year hiatus in the six-party
negotiations that include his nation, the U.S.,  China ,  Japan ,
 South Korea  and North Korea. Kim may need to offer more
concessions to get the U.S. and South Korea back to the
negotiating table.  Welcome but Insufficient  “If in fact they are willing to refrain from nuclear
testing and missile launches, this would be welcome but it would
be insufficient,” U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told reporters in  Washington . The U.S. won’t return to
talks until North Koreans are ready to meet all of the
conditions laid out, she said.  North Korea’s intentions on its nuclear program remain
unclear, Shin Maeng Ho, a spokesman for the South Korean Foreign
Ministry, said today. The government in  Seoul  views the
potential pipeline proposed by  Russia  positively, he said.  The official Korean Central News Agency in Pyongyang said
the six-party negotiations “should be resumed without any
precondition” and didn’t mention the possible moratorium
referred to by Medvedev’s spokeswoman.  North Korea may agree to the construction of a pipeline
from Russia that would carry as much as 10 billion cubic meters
of gas a year, Medvedev told reporters, adding that the
countries will establish a joint commission to study the
project.  The president ordered  Alexei Miller , chief executive
officer of Russian gas-export monopoly OAO Gazprom, to
“closely” oversee the initiative.  Power Grid  Russia is in separate talks with companies from North Korea
and South Korea to build a natural-gas pipeline to supply the
fuel to both countries, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on
Aug. 8. Russia may also build a  power grid  along the route.  South Korean President Lee Myung Bak today held talks with
Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev on issues that included
the regional outlook at a meeting in the Central Asian state’s
capital, Astana. The two sides discussed nuclear non-
proliferation and the situation on the Korean peninsula,
Nazarbayev told reporters at a joint briefing with his Korean
counterpart, without giving details.  “Russia wants to come out with an initiative to resolve
the Korean peninsula problem through massive economic
cooperation with North and South Korea,” said Alexander Lukin,
an Asia expert at the Moscow State Institute of International
Relations. Total investment may exceed $100 billion, he said.  South Korean Foreign Minister Kim Sung Hwan said on Aug. 12
that  North Korea  would earn cash from transit revenue, while
South Korea would get access to cheaper imports of gas.  Armored Train  Kim crossed into Russia in an armored train on Aug. 20 in
his first trip since 2002, when he met then-President  Vladimir Putin  in Vladivostok. His train left Ulan-Ude for North Korea
last night, RIA Novosti  reported , citing an unidentified local
Russian official.  “I’m having a really good trip thanks to the care and
attention from your side, Mr. President,” Kim said at the
meeting at a hotel, in comments translated from Korean into
Russian. The North Korean leader, who is afraid of  air travel ,
thanked Medvedev for flying to attend the talks in Siberia.  Russia has also proposed a railway project that would
connect the Trans-Siberian Railway to South Korea via North
Korea, opening up an “Iron Silk Road” that would cut shipping
costs of South Korean companies to  Europe .  Last week Russia said it would send as much as 50,000
metric tons of wheat to North Korea as aid, after recent
flooding in the country, which has suffered famine in the past.  ‘New Factor’  The gas pipeline project could provide “a new factor that
may change the atmosphere” between the two Koreas, said  Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst at the Council on Foreign and Defense
Policy in Moscow.  Even so, Russia should be realistic about its ability to
wring concessions while advancing cooperation with North Korea,
Lukin said.  “You can’t conclude any agreements with this regime,” he
said. “They will restart their program even if somehow they
announce today that they are ready to stop it.”  North Korea and South Korea on July 22 agreed to try to
revive the six-party forum on North Korea’s  nuclear-weapons 
program.  Wu Dawei , China’s chief envoy to the forum, met with
his South Korean counterpart Wi Sung Lac and exchanged views
today, according to a statement posted on the website of China’s
foreign affairs ministry.  The group last convened in December 2008. In April 2009,
North Korea said it would restore its main reactor for making
weapons-grade plutonium at Yongbyon, which had been disabled
under a February 2007 accord.  The Kim-Medvedev meeting comes after North Korea threatened
Aug. 18 to bolster its nuclear deterrent “both in quality and
quantity” after the U.S. and South Korea began two weeks of
military exercises. South and North Korea remain technically at
war after their 1950-1953 conflict ended in a cease-fire.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  