-- 
Egypt Bad-Loan Levels Signal Lenders Defy Economic Slowdown: Arab Credit

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-08-24T13:31:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/egypt-bad-loan-levels-signal-lenders-defy-economic-slowdown-arab-credit.html
Egypt ’s banks are withstanding the
nation’s worst political crisis in three decades after the
central bank eased rules on provisions and kept  interest rates 
at a five-year low.  The National Bank of Egypt, the country’s biggest lender by
assets, didn’t book any non-performing loans in the first half
of this year, Chairman Tarek Amer said. The ratio of non-
performing loans to gross loans at the country’s three biggest
publicly traded lenders -- Commercial International Bank Egypt
SAE (COMI) , National Societe Generale Bank and  Credit Agricole Egypt
SAE (CIEB)  -- declined or remained unchanged in the second quarter,
beating analyst forecasts, according to AlembicHC Securities and
Naeem Holding.  “The increase in non-performing loans is less than we
expected and the quality of the loan book is deteriorating less
quickly than we anticipated,”  Jaap Meijer , head of the bank
team at Dubai-based AlembicHC, said in a telephone interview
Aug. 21. “It’s pretty resilient. Probably the impact on the
corporate clients is less than expected.”  Banks in the most-populous Arab nation have resisted
deterioration in asset quality even as the economy shrank at an
annual rate of 4.2 percent in the first quarter amid the popular
uprising that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak . The  Central Bank
of Egypt , which eased provisioning requirements in April, will
keep its benchmark interest rate at the lowest level since 2006
tomorrow, according to the forecasts of five economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  Extending NPL Period  Credit rating companies such as  Fitch Ratings  have said the
outlook of Egypt’s credit and banking industry depends on the
outcome of parliamentary elections, set to be held at the end of
this year. Fitch lowered Egypt’s credit worthiness in February
by one level to BB, two levels below investment grade.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bond maturing in
2020 tumbled 152 basis points, or 1.52 percentage points, since
peaking at 7.07 percent on Jan. 31 at the height of the anti-
Mubarak protests. The average yield on Middle East sovereign
bonds dropped 63 basis points in the period to 4.69 percent
yesterday, according to the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai Middle East
Conventional Sovereign US Dollar Bond Index.  The central bank extended in April the period to classify a
retail loan as non-performing to 90 days from 30 days. It also
asked banks to give companies in the  tourism industry  a grace
period of up to a six-month ending in June to make payments on
outstanding loans without penalty.  “Extending the period for NPLs helped banks particularly
with loans to the hospitality sector, where a lot of operators
were operating at less than half of their capacities due to the
unrest,” Ryan Ayache, a Dubai-based banking analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Tourism Slows  Tourist arrivals fell 39 percent in the first seven months
of the year, interim Tourism Minister Mounir Fakhry Abdel Nour
said in an interview on Aug. 17. Tourism employed 12.6 percent
of Egypt’s workforce before the revolt, according to government
figures last year.  Egypt is home to 39 banks, the biggest three of which are
state-owned.  National Bank of Egypt  had its long-term issuer
default rating of “BB” affirmed by Fitch Ratings on Aug. 10.  The bank has “deferred payments for a number of borrowers
in certain sectors that were hit such as tourism,” Amer said in
a telephone interview late yesterday. “But they have a long
track record with us and we have experienced these things before
and they always recover. They are also backed by significant
collateral.”  Shares Decline  The ratio of non-performing loans at Cairo-based Commercial
International Bank, the country’s largest publicly traded
lender, was little changed at 2.9 percent in the second-quarter
compared with the end of 2010. Credit Agricole saw its NPLs drop
0.2 percent to 2.2 percent of loans in the same period, beating
the 2.6 percent estimate of Cairo-based investment bank Naeem
Holding. The rate at NSGB recovered to 3.25 percent from 3.4
percent at the end of the year.  Egyptian banks were forced to shut down twice and the
country’s stock market halted trading for almost two months amid
the revolt that started in January. Underscoring investors’
concerns about the prospects of lenders, shares of the three
banks have underperformed the benchmark EGX 30 stock index since
trading resumed on March 23.  The shares of CIB have declined 25 percent, while NSGB
tumbled 31 percent and and  Credit Agricole  retreated 33 percent.
That compares with a drop of 17 percent for the benchmark EGX30
stock index. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 14 percent and
and the MSCI Emerging Markets/Financials slumped 15 percent in
the same period.  Risk Management  The central bank has maintained its benchmark deposit
interest rate at 8.25 percent after lowering it by 3.25
percentage points in 2009 to shield the nation from the global
financial crisis. Economic growth may slow to 1.6 percent in the
fiscal year that started in July, according to a Bloomberg
survey last month, from an estimated 2.6 percent expansion in
the previous year.  The ratio of NPLs to gross loans may increase to 3.5
percent for CIB and 4.9 percent for NSGB, the country’s second-
biggest publicly traded lender by assets, according to Ayache.  “Broadly speaking, performance has been good but in this
environment the emphasis is really on stability, transparency,
provision coverage and capital levels,” said Ayache. “We
really don’t need banks to outperform on the top line given low
expectations. But we need them to show consistency in risk
management. That’s the key.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  