-- 
Egypt May Maintain Key Interest Rate to Help Boost Growth After Uprising

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-08-24T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/egypt-may-maintain-key-interest-rate-to-help-growth-after-revolt.html
Egypt ’s  central bank  will probably
keep the benchmark  interest rate  at the lowest since 2006 as
growth slows following the overthrow of President  Hosni Mubarak .  The bank will hold the overnight deposit rate at 8.25
percent today, according to all five economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The bank usually meets at 3 p.m. and announces
the decision two hours later. It hasn’t changed the rate since
September 2009.  The turmoil that accompanied the ouster of Mubarak in
February may slow economic growth this year to 1 percent, the
lowest level in almost two decades, the  International Monetary
Fund  said. Since the uprising erupted on Jan. 25, tourists have
fled, foreign investors dumped Treasury bills and factory output
was hit by protests and strikes. The benchmark EGX 30 stock
index is down nearly 35 percent this year.  “We’ve seen downward pressure on inflation recently,”
Alia Moubayed, senior economist for the  Middle East  and North
Africa at London-based  Barclays Capital , said by telephone.
“What is more important at this stage is really to ensure that
growth recovers fast.”  The annual inflation rate in urban parts of Egypt declined
to 10.4 percent in July, its lowest level this year, from 11.8
percent in June.  The economy shrank an annual 4.2 percent in the first
quarter and investment plunged 26 percent. Cairo-based
investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE said on Aug. 9 that the
economy may contract 3.3 percent this year instead of the 2.5
percent it estimated earlier. Previous governments have said
they need growth of about 7 percent to create enough jobs for a
growing working-age population.  The central bank may maintain its benchmark rate at least
until next March, Moubayed said.  “There is no rationale for raising interest rates at this
stage, nor cutting them for that matter, because while inflation
pressures have subsided a little bit, risks from high food
prices are still on the upside,” Moubayed said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  