-- 
Egypt’s Biggest Bank Says Full-Year Profit Rose 10 Percent

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-08-24T07:56:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/egypt-s-biggest-bank-says-full-year-profit-rose-10-percent.html
National Bank of Egypt , the Arab
country’s biggest lender by assets, said full-year profit rose
10 percent on higher foreign-exchange and net-interest income
and increased fees.  Net income for the year ended June 30 advanced to 2.2
billion Egyptian pounds ($368 million) from 2 billion pounds a
year earlier, Chairman Tarek Amer said in a telephone interview
late yesterday, citing unaudited figures. Earnings at the state-
owned bank the previous year included a one-time gain of 700
million pounds, he said.  “Our foreign exchange income increased, our commissions
and fees increased and our net interest income increased,” said
Amer, a former deputy central bank governor. The bank hasn’t
booked any non-performing loans in three years, he added.  Egyptian banks are coping with the nation’s worst political
crisis in three decades since the popular uprising that toppled
President  Hosni Mubarak  in February caused the economy to shrink
4.2 percent in the first quarter of the year. To ease financial
pressure, the central bank relaxed rules on bank provisions and
kept  interest rates  at a five-year low.  “Of course we did defer payments for a number of borrowers
in certain sectors that were hit like tourism,” he said. “But
they have a long track record with us and we have experienced
these things before and they always recover. They are also
backed by significant collateral.”  Target Missed  National Bank, whose shares aren’t publicly traded, missed
its target for full-year net income of 2.6 billion pounds, in
part due to raising staff wages and benefits after the revolt,
Amer said. First-half profit exceeded one billion pounds, he
added.  The bank may help help arrange a so-called revolving
facility of about 5 billion pounds for construction companies
owed money by the government, Amer said. Prime Minister Essam Sharaf has agreed to the plan “in principle,” he said. In a
revolving credit facility, money that’s been repaid can be
borrowed again.  National Bank is the top syndicated-loan arranger in the
 Middle East  this year with a total share of about $2.1 billion,
according to Bloomberg data.  Samba Financial Group (SAMBA)  of  Saudi
Arabia  is second with $849.6 million and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  is
third with $848.1 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  