-- 
Heineken Drops Most on Record Following Forecast of Stagnant 2011 Earnings

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-08-24T10:58:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/heineken-sees-stagnant-annual-profit.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-
largest brewer by volume, said full-year profit is unlikely to
grow, sending the shares down the most on record.  So-called organic adjusted net income for 2011 will be
“broadly in line” with last year, the Amsterdam-based company
said today in a statement. Heineken reported adjusted profit of
1.45 billion euros ($2.1 billion) on that basis last year, and
analysts had expected profit this year of 1.68 billion euros,
according to the average of 23 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Wet weather in Europe and low  consumer confidence  caused
weak volume sales in July and August, Heineken said today as it
announced first-half profit that missed analysts’ estimates amid
higher promotional spending. Heineken generates more revenue in
Western  Europe , where households are reining in spending, than 
any of the other major brewers.  “The problems in the first half are mainly Heineken-
specific,” said  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, citing weak volume in Greece and  Egypt  as well as
higher costs. “In the second half, all of these things
continue, plus we’re seeing weak volumes in western Europe.”  Analysts had anticipated Heineken’s organic profit to rise
about 13 percent this year, Stirling said. “I don’t think there
was anybody on the sell-side who was anywhere near as bearish as
this,” he said of the company’s forecast for unchanged profit.  Share Slump  Heineken fell as much as 5.81 euros, or 16 percent, to
30.40 euros in Amsterdam trading and was down 13 percent at
31.63 euros as of 12:52 p.m. Shares in competitors also
declined.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s largest brewer,
dropped as much as 4.7 percent in Brussels trading, while
Carlsberg slid as much as 2.9 percent in Copenhagen.  After reporting first-quarter profit growth of more than 20
percent, Heineken said in April it didn’t expect to maintain the
same pace of expansion for the rest of the year as it increases
advertising and promotional spending. Heineken still plans to
increase marketing expenditure “by low single-digits” in the
second half, Chief Executive Officer Jean Francois Van Boxmeer
said, as “development and building brands are long-haul
efforts.”  Business in parts of the U.S. and Europe will remain
“challenging” given the squeeze on spending imposed by reduced
household incomes, Heineken said.  First-Half Profit  First-half earnings before interest and taxes at Heineken
rose to 1.26 billion euros, excluding some items, from 1.14
billion euros a year earlier, less than the 1.37 billion-euro
median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Organic sales gained 3.3 percent in the first half,
Heineken said, slowing from 3.6 percent in the first quarter.
The consolidated volume of beer sold on the same basis rose 3.9
percent, compared with the first quarter’s 5.5 percent growth.  Beer volume increased in all the brewer’s regions apart
from the Americas, where it slid 2.4 percent. The company lost
share in Mexico and the U.S.  The weather “had a big influence, particularly in the
northern hemisphere” since the end of the first half, Van
Boxmeer said today on a call.  July was an “extraordinarily wet and cool month” in the
Netherlands, Heineken’s home market, according to the Royal
Dutch Weather Institute. The U.K., which analysts at UBS AG
estimate represents about 10 percent of sales, experienced cool
conditions, according to the country’s  Met Office . Heineken gets
about 45 percent of its sales from western Europe.  Higher Input Costs  Heineken expects a “slightly higher” rate of input cost
inflation in the second half, and maintained its guidance for
“a low single-digit increase” in input costs per hectoliter.  Van Boxmeer declined to comment on how much the brewer will
have to raise prices next year to offset higher costs of
commodities including malting barley. “Buying campaigns are not
completed yet, and it’s a very competitive issue,” he said.  Heineken today announced a new cost-cutting plan, set to
start in 2012, to replace its Total Cost Management program,
which ends this fiscal year. It gave no details. Total Cost
Management delivered 80 million euros of cost savings in the
first half of the year.  “A company has to continue to address its productivity
issues on an ongoing basis,” Van Boxmeer said. “If in the past
we’ve been devoting a lot of attention to our infrastructure in
terms of brewing and overheads, going forward we’ll devote a lot
of attention to our purchasing activity.”  Acquisitions?  Heineken, which bought  Mexico ’s Fomento Economic Mexicano
SAB’s beer unit in April 2010 to expand into faster-growing
markets, won’t comment on specific acquisition opportunities,
Chief Financial Officer Rene Hooft Graafland said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” program when
asked whether he would be interested in Fosters Group Ltd. He
added that the company’s focus is expanding in emerging markets.  Rival SABMiller Plc took a A$9.5-billion ($10 billion) bid
for Foster’s directly to the Australian brewer’s shareholders
last week after the company’s board rejected an approach in
June.  Organic adjusted net income excludes some items and the
effect of currency fluctuations and acquisitions or disposals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 