-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Fall on Corporate Profits, Growth Concern

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-08-24T22:03:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/emerging-market-stocks-decline-on-economic-growth-concern-lower-earnings.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, with
the benchmark index dropping for the fourth day in five, as
companies reported disappointing results and investors weighed
what the  Federal Reserve  may do to bolster the economy.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 0.8 percent to
978.21 at 4:31 p.m. in  New York , following yesterday’s 2 percent
gain. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprise Index declined 3.1 percent
as China Life Insurance Co. tumbled on a drop in first-half
earnings.  India ’s Sensex Index lost 1.3 percent. Brazil’s
benchmark was little changed and Mexico’s fell 0.1 percent.  China Life, the nation’s biggest insurer, sank 12 percent
in  Hong Kong  after reporting a 28 percent slump in earnings
while  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) , the national carrier,
retreated 4.9 percent after posting a second-straight quarterly
loss. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and other central bankers
meet this week in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, amid signs of a slowing
global recovery. Data today showed German business confidence
fell to its lowest in more than a year.  “Market attention is now focused more on the U.S.,” said
Fadlul Imansyah, who helps manage about $199 million at PT CIMB
Principal Asset Management in Jakarta. “Even if the Fed
announces a third round of quantitative easing, there’s still
concern about growth in Europe,” he said, referring to an
asset-purchase program by the U.S. central bank.  Valuations  The MSCI emerging-market index has retreated 19 percent
from this year’s high on May 2 after worse-than-estimated U.S.
economic data, the unprecedented downgrade of America’s top debt
rating and signs that Europe’s most-indebted countries may
struggle to repay obligations shook investor confidence. The
gauge is valued at 8.9 times analysts’ estimates for 12-month
earnings, near the lowest level since March 2009.  Most emerging-market currencies fell against the dollar,
led by the Mexian Peso with a 1.4 percent decline. South
Africa’s rand weakened 1.1 percent while the Brazilian real
depreciated 1.1 percent. China’s yuan rose 0.2 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries plunged 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 358, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Most stocks on the Bovespa index fell.  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3) ,
Brazil’s fifth-largest consumer-goods company by market value,
sank 4 percent in Sao Paulo, the most among member stocks of the
gauge.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA (USIM5) , Brazil’s second-
largest steelmaker, fell after its shares were cut to
“underweight” from “equal weight” at  Barclays Capital .  Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB, Latin America’s largest
Coca-Cola bottler, tumbled 4.6 percent on the Mexican Stock
Exchange on concern profit from its 20 percent stake in
beermaker Heineken NV will be lower than forecast.  India Inflation  India’s benchmark stock index fell for the first time this
week on concern the central bank’s measures to curb rising
prices have started to cool demand and hurt corporate earnings.  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s biggest producer, declined 4.7
percent and  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , India’s largest
software services exporter, dropped 1.9 percent. The  Reserve
Bank  of India is watching for signs of any slowdown in demand as
it seeks to tame “inflation drivers” that are “very much in
play,” Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said yesterday.  CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets lowered its target on the Sensex
index to 18,200 from 19,500, citing slower growth and earnings
downgrades, according to a note sent today. The index dropped
1.3 percent to 16,284.98 today.  Samsung SDI Co. tumbled 6.7 percent in Seoul trading after
Robert Bosch GmbH said it plans to build a pilot factory to make
lithium-ion batteries, a move that could raise competition for
the South Korean company.  The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of credit-default swaps
for emerging  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa climbed seven
basis points to 271, according to CMA in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  