-- 
Emirates Craves Apple’s Cool in Online Push for 4,000 Crew

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-08-25T11:17:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/emirates-aims-to-capture-apple-s-cool-in-online-drive-to-hire-4-000-crew.html
Emirates, the largest international
airline, is advertising 4,000 cabin-crew jobs via online music
provider  Spotify Ltd.  as it strives to attract international
staff for the world’s biggest fleet of Airbus SAS superjumbos.  Emirates needs to boost flight attendant numbers by a third
to 16,000 during the year through March as it adds five double-
deck, 517-seat A380s, for a total of 20. Ads on Facebook Inc.,
the No. 1 social website, may follow as the Dubai-based company
seeks English-speaking, tech-savvy recruits aged from 21 to 30.  With Qatar Airways Ltd. and Abu Dhabi’s Etihad also adding
staff, Emirates aims to leverage its status as long-haul market
leader to become employer of choice among would-be cabin crew,
akin to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in computing and  Nike Inc. (NKE)  in sporting goods,
advertising manager Sardar Khan said in an interview.  “We’ve growing rapidly and that presents a massive hiring
challenge,” Khan said. “Apple and Nike are aspirational brands
and we like to think of ourselves as in that league. Your
friends are going to think, wow, you’re working for them?”  Apple rose three places to 17th in last year’s 100-company
 Best Global Brands  ranking from Interbrand, posting the biggest
gain in recognition, while Nike advanced one spot to 25th. The
maker of the iPhone also came 18th in a 2010 ranking of the 50
most attractive employers from recruitment-branding consultant
Universum.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  were placed top of the
two surveys, while airlines were absent from both.  Migrant Labor  Like other Gulf sheikdoms, Dubai is heavily reliant on
foreign workers, who make up 90 percent of the 1.97 million-
strong population.  “I certainly don’t think you’d have much in the way of UAE
nationals,” said  John Strickland , an aviation analyst at JLS
Consulting Ltd. in London. “A flight I went on to Dubai in 2010
had British, Malaysians and Brazilians in the crew. Emirates
offers a reasonable package. In terms of salary it’s always said
levels are lower than in  Europe , but then there’s less tax.”  Emirates flight attendants start on a basic annual salary
of about 47,000 dirhams ($12,800), plus hourly flying pay, a
fixed monthly cash sum based on their role and competencies,
free housing and transport, and an annual payment from a profit-
sharing plan. At British Airways the starting salary is about
15,000 pounds ($25,000) a year, before supplementary sums.  The 30-second ad on Spotify matches songs with reasons to
seek a job at Emirates, depicting the attractions of Dubai to a
background of Black’s ‘Wonderful Life’ and the chance to work
with multilingual crew to Sister Sledge’s ‘We are Family.’  ‘X-Factor’  Founded in  Sweden  and based in  London , Spotify offers
access to 15 million songs and claims 10 million users in seven
countries in Europe, where it’s the No. 2 digital-music platform
after Apple’s iTunes, according to the International Federation
of the Phonographic Industry. It debuted in the U.S. last month.  “Spotify has the x-factor in that it’s perceived as a
dynamic brand with a product that’s regarded as best of breed,”
said  Mark Mulligan , an independent new media and music analyst
in London, adding that the company is luring major advertisers
after establishing the validity of a model that, while online,
initially “looked and felt pretty much like radio.”  Emirates hasn’t given up more traditional hiring methods
and will hold 77  recruitment fairs  through Nov. 5, almost two
per day, in countries as far apart as the  Armenia ,  Paraguay ,  New
Zealand  and the U.K. English is the only linguistic
prerequisite, though the carrier employs 130 nationalities
speaking 80 languages.  ‘Intelligent Move’  Crew must also be educated to at least high-school level,
be able to stretch 2.12 meters (6 feet 11 inches) on tiptoe to
reach emergency gear, and have “a positive attitude with the
natural ability to provide excellent service working within a
team environment, dealing with people from all cultures.”  Online ad budgets are forecast to total $132.1 billion by
2015, almost double last year’s $68.1 billion, and to comprise
22 percent of total media spending, according to  eMarketer , a
New York-based digital media and marketing research firm.  “For Emirates, as a public-facing brand, being seen to
experiment with these platforms is an intelligent move because
it shows that they are willing to understand and connect with
people on the topics they’re interested in and in the places
where they spend time,” said Tim Callington, head of digital
and social media at public relations firm Edelman.  U.S. Boost  Emirates has orders for 90  superjumbos  with 45,000 seats
and a list price of $34 billion. Each A380 needs 26 staff: four
pilots, 20 flight attendants and two washroom workers who tend
to premium shower cubicles. Its  Boeing Co. (BA)  777s require 16 crew.  The Arab carrier is building the fleet to establish Dubai
as an inter-continental hub and win passengers from Air France-
KLM Group, British Airways and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  while
fending off Qatar Air and Etihad. It will resist cutting flights
as  oil prices  threaten the profitability of some destinations
and instead aims to stir up demand with cheaper tickets,
President  Tim Clark  said in an interview on June 20.  Dubai airport said today that July passenger numbers rose
9.7 percent to 4.7 million, with the U.S. -- where Emirates
serves four cities -- the second-fastest growing destination
after  Saudi Arabia . Dubai ranks as the world’s fourth-busiest
international terminal and aims to leapfrog  Hong Kong  into third
place this year, with an estimated 51 million passengers.  Qatar Competition  Qatar Air, the second-biggest Middle Eastern airline, has
91 jetliners in its fleet, 56 of them widebodies, with 172 on
order, of which 160 are twin-aisle. Including retirements, it
may operate 190 planes by 2020, 60 more than previously
envisaged, CEO Akbar al Baker said in a June interview.  Etihad, the regional No. 3, is pursuing a less expansive
growth plan, according to CEO James Hogan. The carrier has 57
wide-body planes, with 103 jets due for delivery in the coming
decade, including 10 A380s, 25 Airbus A350s and 35 Boeing 787s.  Foster the most positive public image, though, and Emirates
will succeed in fending off rivals to recruit the cream of the
cabin-crew crop, according to advertising chief Khan.  “You want to be the brand that’s on tip of people’s
tongues, that your neighbors are going to recommend,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  