-- 
Temple-Inland Costs Shareholders $1 Billion in Seeking New Offer: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-24T23:55:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/temple-inland-costs-shareholders-1-billion-in-seeking-new-offer-real-m-a.html
No company in America is costing
shareholders more money by holding out for a bigger payday in a
takeover than  Temple-Inland Inc. (TIN)   The maker of cardboard boxes, which surged above
 International Paper Co. (IP) ’s unsolicited offer of $30.60 a share
after rejecting it in June, has since lost almost all the 50
percent gain as the  U.S. economy  sputtered and it was sued for
“fraudulently looting” a former unit’s assets. The gap between
Temple-Inland’s price of $22.75 and International Paper’s
proposal is now wider than any pending U.S. deal valued at $1
billion or more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While International Paper took the richest acquisition in
the packaging industry in five years directly to shareholders
after Temple-Inland adopted a so-called poison pill, Royal Bank
of Canada says the acquirer may now reduce its cash offer. By
spurning International Paper’s proposed bid, which Temple-Inland
said was “grossly” undervalued, the Austin, Texas-based
company may lose almost a billion dollars for shareholders.  “We got the impression that Temple-Inland did not want to
be acquired and was not receptive to an offer that was
reasonable,” Brian Barish, Denver-based president of Cambiar
Investors LLC, which oversees about $8 billion, said in a
telephone interview. His firm sold its shares of Temple-Inland
after the bid was announced. There’s “better than a 50 percent
chance that International Paper just goes away,” he said.  Unsolicited-to-Hostile  Chris Mathis, a spokesman at Temple-Inland, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone call to his office or a
voicemail left on his mobile phone seeking comment after normal
business hours. International Paper’s Tom Ryan declined to
comment on whether it was considering lowering its bid.  The company made public its offer June 6 after it was
rejected by Temple-Inland. Including net debt, the $4.1 billion
bid was valued at 9.8 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization.  It would be the most expensive packaging deal over $1
billion since Apollo Management LP agreed to buy BPC Holding
Corp. in June 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Temple-Inland adopted a shareholder-rights plan the next
day to prevent a takeover if any investor buys 10 percent or
more of the stock.  Memphis , Tennessee-based International Paper
began a tender offer on July 12, which Temple-Inland said
“grossly undervalues” the company. International Paper
extended its offer this month to Sept. 8.  Since Temple-Inland first rejected the bid, the American
economy expanded less than economists estimated in the second
quarter, while manufacturing and consumer spending data showed
the U.S. may be falling back into a recession.  Takeover Liability  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has retreated 14 percent
from its 2011 high as S&P’s downgrade of the U.S.’s AAA credit
rating this month sparked the biggest one-day rout since the
financial crisis.  Temple-Inland fell further this week as Kenneth L. Tepper,
the liquidation trustee for Guaranty Financial Group Inc.,
claimed Temple-Inland and the former unit’s directors and
officials caused its failure by “fraudulently looting” assets
exceeding $1 billion.  “We do not believe that we have any liability related to
the spinoff of Guaranty Financial,” Temple-Inland said in a
regulatory filing this week. “The claims made in this lawsuit
are without merit.”  After rising as high as $31.43, Temple-Inland has dropped
$7.85 below the $30.60-a-share bid. That’s wiped out almost all
the profit shareholders would have locked in had its directors
agreed to the 46 percent premium International Paper offered.  Windfall Lost  Based on how much Temple-Inland has fallen from the deal
price, its owners may have lost out on an $853 million windfall.
That’s more than a third of its equity value.  The decline may give International Paper leverage to lower
its proposal to $26 a share,  Paul Quinn , a Vancouver-based
analyst at Royal Bank of Canada, wrote in an Aug. 24 report.  Still, reducing its bid would anger Temple-Inland’s board
and diminish any opportunity for International Paper to boost
its share of corrugated packaging in  North America , said Peter Lobravico, a New York-based vice president of merger arbitrage
trading and sales at Wall Street Access.  “I don’t think you can rule out that International Paper
would lower the bid, but I’m not sure it’s prudent of them to do
so,” he said in a telephone interview.  For John Maysles, a Los Angeles-based event-driven analyst
at Elevation LLC, Temple-Inland may destroy more value than it’s
trying to create by failing to negotiate an agreement.  “It definitely would have been better for Temple-Inland
shareholders if they had accepted the original offer,” he said
in a telephone interview. “They’d have a signed deal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  New York  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 