-- 
Henkel May Shed as Many as 200 Brands to Focus on Top Labels, CEO Says

-- B y   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h   a n d   F r a n k   L o n g i d
-- 
2011-08-25T02:24:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/henkel-may-shed-as-many-as-200-brands-to-focus-on-top-labels-ceo-says.html
Henkel AG, the German maker of
industrial adhesives, Dial soap and Soft Scrub cleaners, plans
to sell or terminate as many as 200 brands as it focuses on its
top labels, Chief Executive Officer Kasper Rorsted said.  “We’ve shed 600 brands in the last three years,” Rorsted,
49, said in a Bloomberg TV interview in  Hong Kong  yesterday.
“We probably have another 100 or 200 to go.”  The maker of Loctite glues and Persil detergent derives 90
percent of sales in the fast-moving consumer goods segment from
its top 10 brands, Rorsted said. Henkel, which makes about half
its revenue from industrial adhesives, is expanding in China,
where it invested 50 million euros ($72 million) to build what
the company said is the world’s biggest glue factory.  Henkel, based in Dusseldorf,  Germany , will meet its target
of making 45 percent of sales in emerging markets by 2012, said
Rorsted, who estimated the current share at 42 percent to 43
percent. About 54 percent of the company’s employees are in
emerging markets, and that proportion will rise to 55 percent
by the end of the year, the CEO also said.  Henkel gained 0.3 percent to close at 33.55 euros
yesterday. The stock has lost 13 percent this year, compared
with an 18 percent decline for the benchmark DAX Index.  China  Growth  The company founded by Fritz Henkel in 1876 has invested a
total of about 600 million euros in China over about two
decades. This year’s investment will be as much as 60 million
euros, including the spending on the adhesives factory, Rorsted
said.  Henkel is growing between 20 percent and 30 percent
annually in China, he said, declining to provide a detailed
sales breakdown per country.  The executive said he doesn’t see any slowdown in the
Asian country’s growth. “Whether it grows 9, 10 or 8 percent,
it’s still very strong growth, so we’re quite confident future
growth will also continue in China.”  The economy of the world’s most populous country will
probably expand 9.3 percent this year, according to the median
estimate of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Henkel’s worldwide sales are increasing at an annual pace
of 5 percent or more, “predominantly driven by very strong
adhesives growth,” Rorsted said, adding that he’s “not
worried” about a slowing global economy.  Japan  Recovery  “What I see right now is more a political crisis than a
fundamental crisis in the economy,” he said. “I don’t believe
there has been substantial change in the fundamental health of
the Fortune 500 companies in the past three months.”  Henkel, which started as a maker of bleaching soda, is
selling more industrial adhesives in emerging markets in  Asia ,
eastern  Europe  and the  Middle East  as manufacturers expand. The
company on Aug. 10 raised its target for full-year sales growth
at existing operations to 5 percent, the top of an earlier
forecast range.  The company’s sales in Japan have recovered since the
magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami on March 11 caused
Japan’s worst disaster since World War II.  “We’re seeing a very, very strong and much quicker
recovery than we would have anticipated 3 months ago,” Rorsted
said. “When it happened we expected to lose 10 percent of our
revenue in Japan this year. At this stage we think we’ll end up
at the same point as last year.”  Henkel sells glues, sealants and surface treatments mainly
to industrial users in a market it estimates was worth 47
billion euros in 2009. The company supplies glues for Airbus
SAS’s A380 superjumbo plane and delivered adhesives for the
gluing of 90,000 square meters of parquet flooring in Dubai’s
 Burj Khalifa , the world’s tallest building.  China will probably be Henkel’s second-biggest market by
2015, Rorsted said. The company made 37 percent of last year’s
15 billion euros revenue in Western Europe, with 18 percent
derived from  North America  and 15 percent from the Asia-Pacific
region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Henkel has no “strategic intent or requirement” to make
acquisitions in the next 12-24 months, the CEO said, repeating
comments he made earlier this month. The German company has no
interest in acquiring Clorox Co. and doesn’t believe it needs
the U.S. company to improve its business, he said at the time.  Henkel will keep hold of its cash, though will make a
purchase if “the right assets are available,” Rorsted said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robyn Meredith in Hong Kong at 
 rmeredith8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  