-- 
Whitney Says BofA Has No ‘Mad Dash’ Need to Raise More Capital: Tom Keene

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-08-24T20:15:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/meredith-whitney-says-there-s-no-mad-dash-for-capital-at-bofa.html
Meredith Whitney , the bank analyst
who correctly predicted Citigroup Inc.’s dividend cut three
years ago, said  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  has no urgent need to
raise capital. The shares rose 11 percent.  “I don’t think that there’s a mad dash to raise capital
immediately,” Whitney said today in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.
“They’re going to steadily raise capital over time.”  Bank of America has lost almost half its value on the New
York Stock Exchange this year as investors speculated the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender will have to access the
public markets. The speculation spurred one blogger to write
that the company was considering a merger with  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , talk Bank of America dismissed as “baseless” in an
internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News.  Bank of America climbed 69 cents to $6.99 on the New York
Stock Exchange at 4:15 p.m., the biggest gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. The shares, which rose as high as $7.05
earlier today, may triple, according to Anthony Polini, an
analyst at Raymond James Financial Inc., who cited the bank’s
“excellent” liquidity and flexible balance sheet in a note to
clients today. Polini didn’t give a time frame.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, has said the
company won’t need to issue shares to comply with new
international capital standards and to settle claims surrounding
defective mortgages.  Selling Assets  Moynihan agreed to sell the bank’s Canadian card unit, with
$8.6 billion in loan balances, and plans to leave the U.K. and
Irish card markets, Bank of America said this month. The bank
has been forced to write down credit-card and mortgage units
acquired by Moynihan’s predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis . Bank of
America has sold more than 20 assets or units since Moynihan
took over last year.  Moynihan is “the right guy for the job,” said Whitney,
41, who started New York-based Meredith Whitney Advisory Group
LLC in 2009. Bank of America probably won’t need to raise
capital in the public markets, and shareholders should “hold
on,” Whitney said.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, said the
speculation it’s considering a merger with JPMorgan doesn’t
“make practical sense,” according to the memo.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for Bank of America, confirmed the
contents of the memo.  Paying Debt  Richard Bove , an analyst with Rochdale Securities, said
yesterday that Bank of America has sufficient capital. The
company has “so much cash on its balance sheet that it could
pay back all of its short-term debt and a big chunk of its long-
term debt,” he said.  Henry Blodget , the former Internet stock analyst turned
blogger, wrote yesterday on Business Insider that charges and
loan costs may force the bank to raise as much as $200 billion.
Bank of America said Blodget, who was banned for life from the
securities industry after regulatory inquiries into how analysts
touted stocks during the Internet boom, made “exaggerated and
unwarranted claims.” The claims are “just wrong,” according
to yesterday’s employee memo.  Bank of America is going to focus on cutting expenses to
manage through a “protracted economic recovery,” Moynihan told
investors this month. The economy grew at a 1.3 percent annual
pace in the second quarter.  Moynihan plans to “continue to clean up the mortgage
issues” stemming from the 2008 takeover of Countrywide
Financial Corp. and “get our operating costs down across the
board,” he said this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  