-- 
Merkel Rejects Euro Region Breakup, Presses Allies to Cut Sovereign Debt

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-08-24T14:28:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/merkel-rejects-euro-region-breakup-presses-allies-to-cut-sovereign-debt.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
rejected a breakup of the euro area, saying the currency’s
failure would threaten European unity and prosperity built up
since World War II.  A return to national currencies by debt-strapped countries
such as Greece and  Spain , or a German return to the deutsche
mark, isn’t a solution to the debt crisis that requires all
European countries to commit to austerity, Merkel said in a
speech in the eastern German city of Magdeburg today.  “Do we peoples of  Europe  want to return to going it
alone?” she said. “Or do we want to move forward together? Are
we ready to recommit to Europe and sacrifice more for Europe, so
Europe and the euro can survive the severe test it is facing
during these months and emerge stronger than before? I’m in
favor of us daring to do exactly that.”  Merkel’s remarks came as polls show a majority of Germans
wary of bailouts for other euro-area countries and lawmakers in
her coalition seek to limit the scope for future contributions
by  Germany , Europe’s largest economy and the biggest single
contributor to the aid packages.  “If the euro fails, the European project will be put at
risk,” she said in Magdeburg’s  medieval cathedral  after
receiving the city’s Emperor Otto Prize for leadership on
European integration. “That is why we are doing everything
possible to bolster the currency.”  Opposes Euro Bonds  Merkel renewed her opposition to joint euro-area bonds as a
way to stem the debt turmoil, saying “they don’t help us at all
in the current crisis.” While yearning for a “magic potion”
is understandable, that doesn’t mean it is the “politically
responsible thing to do.”  European governments must tackle the crisis at the root by
committing to debt reduction and boosting competitiveness, she
said. “I want Europe to become a stability union.”  In a related development, Estonian President Toomas Ilves
said the 17-nation euro region may emerge from the sovereign-
debt crisis without its less fiscally-prudent members.  “I think the  euro zone  may not take the same form it does
today,” Ilves said in an interview in the Estonian capital,
Tallinn, yesterday. “I don’t see the euro zone collapsing. It’s
too much in the interest of the fiscally responsible members of
the euro zone to maintain the currency. It’s also in the
interests of other countries that aren’t so responsible but they
may not have the luxury.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Magdeburg, Germany at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  