-- 
Estonian Watchdog Freezes Krediidipank Cyprus Owners’ Votes

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-08-24T14:34:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/estonian-watchdog-freezes-krediidipank-cyprus-owners-votes.html
Estonia’s financial watchdog froze
the voting rights of Cyprus-registered shareholders of AS Eesti
Krediidipank to increase the transparency of the lender’s
management.  The Financial Supervision Authority in Tallinn suspended
the voting rights of five shareholders who represent less than
45 percent of total votes, Allan Soon, a spokesman for
 Krediidipank , said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg
questions today. The move seeks to reduce the risks of low
transparency, the supervisor said in a separate e-mailed
statement.  “As the Financial Supervision Authority cannot establish
who in fact are controlling Eesti Krediidipank shareholders that
are registered in Cyprus and there is reasonable suspicion about
acquiring significant ownership, the financial supervisor has
decided to ban exercising the voting rights of these
companies,” Raul Malmstein, the supervisor’s management board
chairman, said in the statement.  Krediidipank, formerly majority owned by Bank of Moscow, is
Estonia’s fifth-largest lender with 454 million euros ($655
million) in assets, or 2.4 percent of the overall market, as of
the end of March, according to the Estonian Banking Association.  Krediidipank is majority owned by offshore companies
registered in Cyprus and the British Virgin Islands, after a
number of transactions since December, each with stakes just
below 10 percent, business newspaper  Aeripaeev  reported in June,
citing data from regulators. Ownership exceeding 10 percent is
considered significant and requires a specific clearance from
the regulator.  An investigation showed the Cyprus-registered shareholders
may have coordinated their actions and that the individuals that
are tied to the Cyprus-registered companies according to
information available to the supervisor may not be the “final
beneficiaries,” the watchdog said.  Krediidipank’s Soon said the bank fully agrees with the
watchdog’s move. The decision won’t become an obstacle to
calling a general meeting or making decisions as the quorum will
be based on the remaining shareholders, he said.  Cyprus-registered Vroches Holdings Ltd., Theopisti Holdings
Ltd., Gestapitos Holding Investment Ltd., Lazuron Investments
Ltd. and Olix Holding are listed on Krediidipank’s website as
shareholders as of end-May. Bank of Moscow held a 16.2 percent
stake at the time, while Alexander Evnevich, the biggest
individual shareholder, had a 9.9 percent stake. British Virgin
Islands-registered East European Capital Investment Ltd. had a
9.8 percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  