-- 
Methane Brings New York $12 Million a Year as Dump Becomes Park

-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 
2011-08-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/methane-fuel-trove-brings-new-york-12-million-a-year-as-dump-becomes-park.html
Everyone asks the same question
about  Staten Island ’s  Fresh Kills , once the world’s largest
garbage dump.  Does it smell?  On a recent tour of these now-green rolling hills on New
York’s other island borough, I learn the answer is yes, in fact,
the place smells like spring.  Much of the site, which will eventually comprise 2,200
acres and hides more than a half-century of trash, is covered in
switchgrass, wildflowers and trees. This capping of garbage
mountains isn’t merely a coverup, however. Under the greenery is
a vast reservoir of  methane , a byproduct of decaying organic
matter.  The last of the big mounds of garbage is being capped by an
impermeable plastic liner and soil, and soon any evidence that
this was an enormous trash heap will be hard to find.  “The Parks Department has not yet come and done any
modification to the landscape, but as you can see, Mother Nature
had already taken over,” says Carrie Grassi, outreach manager
for what is called Freshkills Park. “It’s really exciting for
us because the site is already starting to come back.”  So is the wildlife. Deer, muskrat and fox have returned to
these tidal wetlands. I see several red-winged blackbirds and
white egrets, and a pair of nesting ospreys perched in an aerie
over Main Creek. The one bird I don’t see, oddly enough, is a
garbage-dump staple, the seagull.  ‘Sneak Peak’  Another species coming to Freshkills these days is the
human. The  New York  City Department of  Parks & Recreation  is
hosting events -- walking tours, birding excursions and, this
summer, boating -- to introduce people to a space three times
the size of Central Park. A recent event called “Sneak Peak”
attracted a small throng.  “We expected five or six hundred people,” Grassi says.
“We got 2,000. It was great to see the reactions, especially of
the people who live in Staten Island and expected to see
garbage. They can get quite emotional, which is an amazing thing
to see.”  As for the methane, The  New York City Department of
Sanitation  has been tapping into that reservoir for more than 10
years, harvesting and purifying the methane, then selling it to
energy company National Grid.  Fresh Kills has been generating five million cubic feet of
usable methane every day for more than 10 years, enough energy
to heat 25,000 to 30,000 homes. The city says it takes in around
$1 million a month from the sale of the gas. How long can this
keep up?  Pipes and Tanks  “There’s no easy way to answer that,” says Ted Nabavi,
director of waste-management engineering for the Sanitation
Department. “Depending on a number of factors, it could be 10,
15 years or more.” He pauses before adding, “Or less.”  Nabavi presides over a trailer-like office flanked by
dozens of pipes, holding tanks, and gas-purification apparatus.
Inside are large-screen computer terminals from which the entire
complex can be monitored. Outside, in their own building, twin
1,500-horsepower engines (powered by methane, of course) pump
the gas out of the mounds.  “We have 600 gas-collection wells throughout the site, and
over 170,000 feet of piping,” says Nabavi. If the Sanitation
Department didn’t grab the methane, it would build up and pose
expensive dangers. Even now some of the methane has to be flared
off from time to time. Fortunately the wells and flare-off sites
are mostly unobtrusive in the growing park and will be capped
over in time.  Freshkills Park will also feature other environmentally
inclined conveniences, such as solar panels for parking-lot
lights, a tree nursery and composting toilets. The Parks
Department is even looking into the feasibility of placing a few
windmills on the hilltops.  Waste Problem Remains  This encouraging scene shouldn’t give people the impression
that the problem of waste has been solved. The city still
generates 12,000 tons of waste from residences and a further
13,000 tons from commercial sources -- every day. This
relentless sea of garbage is trucked, shipped and railroaded to
other states, which are paid to take out the city’s trash.  Nevertheless, dreams of solar power and windmills on a vast
parkland, all atop a gigantic garbage dump, is an inspiring
vision. So yes, it does smell. It smells good.  (The Parks Department will have another “Sneak Peak” on
Oct. 2, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.)  (Mike  Di Paola  writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 