-- 
EU May Probe Bahrain Spy Gear Abuses

-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 
2011-08-24T15:59:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/eu-legislators-ask-for-inquiry-into-spy-gear-abuses-in-bahrain.html
European Union legislators asked the
EU to investigate whether companies have aided human rights
violations by selling surveillance gear to repressive
governments.  Marietje Schaake, who is a Dutch member of the European
Parliament, and five of her colleagues in the assembly,
requested the probe today after Bloomberg News reported that a
monitoring system sold and maintained by European companies had
generated text-message transcripts used in the interrogation of
a human rights activist tortured in Bahrain.  The legislators made their request in writing to EU
foreign-policy chief  Catherine Ashton , who is also vice
president of the European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s
executive body in Brussels.  The probe would determine whether any European security and
communications companies contributed to “human rights
violations, in particular in Tunisia, Egypt, Syria, Bahrain and
 Iran ,” the request says.  The surveillance technology in Bahrain was sold by  Siemens
AG (SIE) , and later maintained by Nokia Siemens Networks, followed by
NSN’s divested unit, Munich-based Trovicor GmbH, Bloomberg
reported yesterday, citing Ben Roome, a Nokia Siemens spokesman.  Egypt, Syria and Yemen also purchased monitoring centers
from the business now known as Trovicor, according to two people
familiar with the installations. The equipment plays a
surveillance role in at least 12 Middle Eastern and North
African nations, they said.  Supporting Export Ban  Barbara Lochbihler, a German member of the EU Parliament
who signed the letter and sits on the Subcommittee on Human
Rights, said she plans to speak with company officials about the
uses of their products. She supports a European export ban of
such technology to regimes that could abuse it, she said.  “As a deputy from Bavaria I´m very interested in the
follow up of what happens with the company Trovicor and also
with Siemens,” she said in an e-mail. Munich, where Trovicor
and Siemens are based, is the Bavarian capital.  The other legislators asking for an inquiry are the
Netherlands’ Hans van Baalen,  Estonia ’s Tunne Kelam, the U.K.’s
Sarah Ludford and Slovenia’s Ivo Vajgl, according to a copy of
the letter provided by Schaake’s office.  The European Commission will revisit the EU’s corporate
responsibility strategy this fall, said Cristina Arigho, a
spokeswoman for the commission. She said the EU is also
considering how to support the implementation of United Nations
principles on business and human rights, passed in June, which
say corporations have a duty to respect human rights.  For Law Enforcement  Monitoring centers are sold around the globe by many
suppliers, and form the heart of what the industry refers to as
lawful interception surveillance systems. The equipment is
marketed largely to law enforcement agencies for tracking
terrorists and other criminals.  The clusters of computers typically tap into communications
networks, scan and sort calls and data -- sometimes by keywords
or voice recognition -- and send the results to operators at
police and intelligence agencies.  The company behind the Bahraini monitoring center started
in 1993 as the voice and data-recording unit of Siemens. In 2007
it became part of Nokia Siemens Networks, the world’s second
biggest maker of wireless communications equipment.  NSN, a joint venture with Espoo, Finland-based  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ,
sold the unit, known as Intelligence Solutions, in March 2009.
It’s now called Trovicor.  Sold to Iran  Siemens and Trovicor declined to comment for the Bloomberg
investigation; Siemens said it no longer had records of the
business, while Trovicor said contracts prevented it from
disclosing clients or countries where it does business.  NSN said a major reason it sold the business was the risk
of human rights abuses. The company has since established a
human rights policy and due diligence program, Roome said.  In 2009, the company disclosed that it delivered a
monitoring center to Iran, prompting hearings in the European
Parliament, proposals for tighter restrictions on U.S. trade
with Iran, and an international “No to Nokia” boycott
campaign.  NSN issued a  statement  yesterday reiterating its concern
for human rights.  “Nokia Siemens Networks has stated clearly that such
abuse, if it has occurred, is wrong and is contrary to its  Code
of Conduct  and accepted international norms,” the statement
said.  Tracking Terrorists  “Partly as a result of the issues raised by the potential
for misuse of its technology, Nokia Siemens Networks is the
first telecommunications equipment provider to adopt a  human
rights policy  specifically addressing the issues of new
technologies and privacy, access to information, and freedom of
expression,” it said.  NSN’s Roome and Siemens spokesman Wolfram Trost declined to
comment on the inquiry request. Birgitt Fischer-Harrow,
Trovicor’s head of marketing communications, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mailed request for comment. There was no
response at her office phone.  The Netherlands’ Schaake helped sponsor and pass a
nonbinding parliamentary resolution in February 2010 that called
for the European Commission to ban exports of such technology to
regimes that could abuse it.  The Bahraini government said it is taking allegations of
abuse seriously and an independent committee is investigating
alleged torture.  “The Kingdom of Bahrain does not advocate the abuse of
human rights,” Luma Bashmi of the Bahrain Information Affairs
Authority wrote in an e-mail yesterday to Bloomberg.  “The committee will investigate any allegations regarding
the Bahrain Defense Forces” and security operations and submit
its report by October 30, she wrote. “At that point the
government of Bahrain can and will address all of these issues
in a just manner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  