-- 
EU Targets Iranian Guard Unit in Expanding Sanctions on Syria

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-08-24T09:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/eu-targets-iranian-guard-unit-in-expanding-sanctions-on-syria.html
The European Union froze the assets
of an Iranian military unit as part of broader sanctions against
 Syria , saying the Teheran-based force has aided the Syrian
regime’s deadly crackdown on protesters.  The EU added the Quds Force, a specialist arm of Iran’s
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps., along with four Syrian
entities and 15 people to the bloc’s list of those targeted by
an asset freeze and travel ban.  “The Quds Force is involved in providing equipment and
support to help the Syria regime suppress protests,” the 27-
nation EU said today in the  Official Journal . The decision,
taken yesterday in Brussels, expands the EU’s sanctions against
Syria to 50 people and nine entities and comes as the bloc
prepares to prohibit imports of crude oil from the country.  The EU is broadening sanctions against people and groups
deemed “responsible for the violent repression against the
civilian population in Syria.” The  United Nations  puts the
death toll at more than 2,200.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, whom the EU put on its
asset-freeze and travel-ban list before today, has deployed
tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and helicopters to crush the
uprising that began in mid-March after revolts ousted the
leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  and sparked a conflict in  Libya .  ‘Indiscriminate Military Force’  EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  announced the
planned expansion of the list and oil embargo last week, when
she cited “intensifying large-scale use of indiscriminate
military force” in Syria and joined leaders in  Europe  and the
U.S. in calling on Assad to step down. Assad rejected the
demands and pledged to schedule parliamentary elections by
February.  EU government representatives held an initial discussion
yesterday about the plan to ban oil imports from Syria and are
scheduled to resume talks on the matter this week, according to
 Michael Mann , Ashton’s spokesman.  EU imports of crude oil from Syria in 2010 were worth 3.16
billion euros ($4.56 billion), according to the  European
Commission , the bloc’s executive arm. That represents 88 percent
of total EU imports from Syria last year, says the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  