-- 
Euro Area May Not Last in Present Shape: Ilves

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-08-24T08:46:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/euro-area-may-not-survive-in-present-shape-estonia-s-ilves-says.html
The 17-nation euro region may emerge
from the sovereign-debt crisis without its less fiscally-prudent
members, Estonian President Toomas Ilves said.  Financially responsible members are too interested in
maintaining the common currency to let it disintegrate into 17
separate currencies even with the current crisis that is slowing
economic growth around the globe, Ilves, who is running for a
second five-year term in the first round of presidential
elections on Aug. 29, said in an interview yesterday.  “I think the euro zone may not take the same form it does
today,” Ilves said in an interview in the Estonian capital,
Tallinn, yesterday. “I don’t see the euro zone collapsing. It’s
too much in the interest of the fiscally responsible members of
the euro zone to maintain the currency. It’s also in the
interests of other countries that aren’t so responsible but they
may not have the luxury.”  Estonia , the first former Soviet republic to adopt the euro
when it made the currency switch in January, is the least-
indebted euro-region member, at 6.6 percent of gross domestic
product. It was also the only nation to have a  budget surplus 
last year.  Euro Benefits  German Chancellor Angela Merkel yesterday rejected demands
that  Greece  provide collateral for emergency loans as splits
emerged in her Cabinet. The Finnish government said Aug. 16 that
it secured a collateral arrangement to ensure its contribution
would be repaid.  Austria  and the Netherlands called for similar
agreements, as did Slovakia and Slovenia.  There is a broad consensus in Estonia regarding the
benefits of euro adoption for the $19 billion economy, which
started expanding in the second quarter of 2010 following its
deepest recession in two decades, Ilves said. Estonia’s growth
depends directly on its Nordic neighbors, Sweden and  Finland ,
and by extension on  Germany , he said.  Five-year Estonian credit-default swaps traded at 120 basis
points on Aug. 22, while the spread to  Latvia ’s CDS has
increased to 141.5 from 112 before the turmoil on global
markets, according to data from CMA. The spread to Lithuania’s
CDS increased to 137 basis points from 110.  Ilves Supporters  The governing coalition Reform Party and Isamaa ja Res
Publica Liit, which commands 56 votes in the 101-seat
legislature, are backing Ilves, who needs a two-thirds majority
to be re-elected in parliament or a simple majority in an
electoral chamber if parliament fails to elect the president.  The opposition Center Party has put forward Indrek Tarand,
a member of the European Parliament, as its candidate.  Political stability in the Baltic nation of 1.3 million has
increased after general elections in March, Ilves said, adding
that it should now focus on improving its quality of life of
citizens and the functioning of the state, mainly through
infrastructure investment.  “Estonia has become more stable, more traditional, you
might say boring, in its range of political options by parties
represented in parliament, it has become like those countries
were three, five years, 10 years ago,” Ilves said. “But”
Nordic “countries have also changed with significant populist
movements, anti-foreigner movements and anti-European
movements.”  The Baltica rail link from Tallinn to the Polish capital
Warsaw via Latvia and  Lithuania  is among the most urgent
projects to boost regional integration, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  