-- 
Evonik Said to Consider Lower IPO Price

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-08-24T12:34:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/evonik-said-to-consider-lower-ipo-price.html
Evonik Industries AG, the specialty
chemicals maker attempting  Germany ’s biggest initial public
offering in a decade, may be prepared to accept a lower price to
win investors, as slower global growth roils capital markets,
two people close to the company said.  Evonik management is pitching the Essen, Germany-based
company to investors to gauge interest in the offering planned
for as early as October, said one of the people, who declined to
be identified as the information is private. Evonik and its
owners had valued the company at as much as 20 billion euros
($29 billion), the people said.  Germany’s benchmark DAX index, which Evonik is a candidate
to join, has plunged 26 percent from this year’s peak on May 2
amid concern that  Europe  will fail to contain its sovereign-debt
crisis. PricewaterhouseCoopers yesterday abandoned its forecast
for 20 IPOs in Germany this year as increased market volatility
unsettles investors worldwide.  “On the German stock market there have been no
cancellations yet, but lots of flotation candidates have
probably put their IPO plans on ice until there is clarity with
the market situation,” PwC said in a report. PwC doesn’t expect
a “significant” revival in public offerings until 2012 after
only 15 initial share sales in Germany so far this year.  Worldwide, at least 10 IPOs were canceled this month, PwC
said. Evonik’s owners may be able to sell additional shares at a
higher price following the IPO, should markets improve, the
people said. Evonik Chief Executive Officer Klaus Engel said in
March the IPO will likely take place within 15 months.  The chemical company is owned by mining-asset foundation
RAG Stiftung and CVC Capital Partners Ltd. The company had
planned to raise 4 billion euros to 7 billion euros in the first
tranche, one of the people said. CVC owns 25.01 of Evonik
Industries, and the RAG Stiftung owns 74.99 percent.  Phoebe Kebbel, a spokeswoman for CVC, declined to comment.
Ulrich Winkler, the spokesman for RAG Stiftung, said the
foundation will sell shares in Evonik only at a price that
reflects the value of the company. The RAG Stiftung will decide
“this fall if and when a stock listing is possible,” he said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  Evonik has hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Deutsche Bank AG
and UBS AG to manage the share sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  