-- 
Parrilla, ex-Bank of America, to Start Commodity Hedge Fund in Singapore

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-08-24T11:41:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/ex-bofa-parrilla-to-start-commodity-hedge-fund-in-singapore.html
Diego Parrilla, former head of Asian
commodities at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, has set up a hedge
fund in  Singapore  and will start trading in the fourth quarter.  The NARECO Commodity Low Vol Alpha fund will invest in raw-
material derivatives, not in equities or in physical markets,
said Parrilla, the chief investment officer, who also spent four
years at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The fund is seeking to raise
$500 million in three years, he said in an e-mail.  The number of hedge-fund startups in  Asia  fell 45 percent
to 60 in the first half, 14 of which were in Singapore,
according to data from researcher Eurekahedge Pte. Commodities
measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
have risen 3.3 percent this year, after soaring 81 percent in
two years, as a slowing global economy amid sovereign-debt
concerns helped offset shortages in corn and copper.  “Initially I’m focusing on a relative-value, market-
neutral type of fund as there’s a gap in the market,” said
Parrilla, referring to strategies where investors seek to profit
from price gaps between commodities or settlement dates.  NARECO Advisors Pte Ltd. is looking to hire two more people
for trading and analysis in addition to the three-person team,
said Parrilla, who is also chief executive officer. The name
NARECO stands for natural resources and commodities.  Parrilla left Bank of America Merrill Lynch in March, where
he was Singapore-based head of commodities for Asia-Pacific and
previously global head of commodity investor and corporate
solutions in  London . He started his career at JPMorgan in London
as a precious metals trader in 1998.  The S&P GSCI Index, little changed today at 652.36, has
dropped 14 percent from the year’s high of 762.22 in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 