-- 
FCC Asks AT&T for More Data on How T-Mobile Bid Boosts Broadband

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-08-24T22:36:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/fcc-asks-at-t-for-more-data-on-how-t-mobile-bid-boosts-broadband.html
The Federal Communications
Commission is asking  AT&T Inc. (T)  for more information about how
the company’s proposed $39 billion acquisition of T-Mobile USA
Inc. would expand high-speed wireless service in the U.S.  The request follows the unintentional public release
earlier this month of an AT&T filing to the FCC that shed light
on the company’s deliberations about the cost of deploying high-
speed Long-Term Evolution, or LTE, coverage to 97 percent of the
 U.S. population .  The filing shows that AT&T could meet that target for
“$3.8 billion -- one-tenth of the $39 billion purchase price
for T-Mobile,” according to an Aug. 18 news  release  from Free
Press, a Washington-based policy group that promotes wide access
to communications.  The FCC and  Justice Department  are vetting the acquisition
proposed March 20 in a review AT&T executives have said will
take about a year. AT&T’s purchase of Bellevue, Washington-based
T-Mobile would combine the second- and fourth-largest carriers
to create a new market leader ahead of No. 1 Verizon Wireless.  President  Barack Obama  in his Jan. 25 State of the Union
 address  set a goal of extending high-speed wireless, or
broadband, to 98 percent of all Americans within the next five
years.  AT&T, in a partially redacted version of the same filing
posted on the FCC’s website, said the “scale and scope of the
larger combined wireless business will permit the additional
 capital investment  to be spread over a larger revenue base than
would be the case absent the merger.”  “Simply put, AT&T would not be able to deliver 4G LTE to
55 million more Americans without this merger,” AT&T spokesman
Michael Balmoris said in an e-mail today. “To argue otherwise
is false and absurd.”  Balmoris said it’s “laughable” that Free Press “would
claim expertise in how corporations should spend billions, much
less how to build a modern network of any type.”  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , which opposes the transaction,
declined to comment, said spokesman  Tom Johnson .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  