-- 
Arizona Bank ‘Sacrificed Safety’ in Home Loans, FDIC Says in Lawsuit

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-24T15:20:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/fdic-sues-ex-first-national-bank-of-arizona-officials-over-loan-practices.html
Ex-First National Bank of Arizona
Chief Executive Officer Gary A. Dorris and former director
Philip A. Lamb “sacrificed safety” and promoted risky
nontraditional  mortgage loans  that ultimately caused the bank’s
failure, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said in a lawsuit.  Dorris and Lamb were negligent in exercising their duties,
given the obvious risks of the bank’s business model, the agency
said yesterday in a complaint in federal court in Phoenix.  The bank operated a wholesale mortgage division to purchase
and market nontraditional “Alt-A” loans that lacked proper
underwriting, required no verification of borrowers’ income or
assets, and had terms that guaranteed high default rates, the
FDIC alleged.  “Although these risky loans returned record profits in the
near term, they produced losses once the real estate market
softened, and ultimately caused the bank’s failure,” the agency
said in the complaint, which seeks to recover more than $193
million in damages.  Authorized Lawsuits  As of Aug. 4, the FDIC has authorized lawsuits against 266
officers and directors in an effort to recoup more than $6.8
billion in losses stemming from the credit crisis, the agency
said on its Web site. An additional 172 residential malpractice
and mortgage fraud lawsuits are pending, consisting of lawsuits
filed and inherited, the agency said. More than 350 lenders have
failed since the start of 2008.  A woman who answered the phone at Dorris’s home in
Scottsdale,  Arizona , said he was unavailable. Lamb has no public
phone listing and couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  FNB Arizona, founded in January 2001, was one of three
banks owned by First National Bank Holding Company, including
First National Bank  Nevada  and First Heritage Bank. FNB Arizona
closed its wholesale mortgage business in 2007, terminating more
than 500 people. It was acquired by FNB Nevada in June 2008,
less than a month before that bank was shuttered on July 25, the
FDIC said in the complaint.  Dorris and Lamb also held positions at FNB Holding and FNB
Nevada, the FDIC said in its complaint. Dorris held one-tenth of
one share of FNB Holding and Lamb owned roughly 5 percent of the
parent company, according to the complaint.  Loan Volumes  FNB Arizona started out relatively conservative but later
billed itself as “the home of Alt-A lending” after
skyrocketing loan volumers led to the creation of the wholesale
mortgage division, according to the complaint.  The wholesale division’s residential mortgage lending
peaked at $7.2 billion in 2006 with Alt-A loans making up 85
percent of its business, the FDIC said in its complaint.  The bank applied “lax” investor standards when
underwriting Alt-A loans and adopted a policy of quickly selling
these loans in secondary markets, the complaint said. The
secondary market for Alt-A mortgages slowed substantially in
2006 and ceased in 2007 leading to the bank’s failure as it was
overwhelmed by losses and reserve requirements, according to the
complaint.  “Once residential real estate prices stopped rising and
loan defaults began to increase, investors refused to purchase
loans from FNB Arizona,” the FDIC said in the complaint.  The case is Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. v. Dorris,
2:11-cv-01652, U.S. District Court, District of Arizona
(Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 