-- 
Gene Therapy for Immune Disorder Lasts Nine Years, Two New Studies Show

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-08-24T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/gene-therapy-for-immune-disorder-lasts-nine-years-two-new-studies-show.html
Fourteen of 16 children with the
 rare immune disorder  sometimes called “bubble boy disease”
were well enough to attend school from two to nine years after
they were treated, showing the benefit is maintained over time.  The rare illness, affecting about 40 to 100 babies each
year, leaves them unable to fight germs, making any infection
potentially deadly. Researchers corrected genetic flaws in the
children’s bone marrow to enable their immune systems to
function, and have followed the children’s progress since.  The therapy may replace bone marrow transplant in treating
the disorder since that requires finding a donor and carries
risks of graft rejection and graft-versus-host disease, the
researchers said. The children’s response over time was reported
today in the journal  Science Translational Medicine .  “What we knew from earlier was that the immune system
could be restored, but we weren’t clear on how that would be
sustained over time,”  Adrian Thrasher , an immunologist at the
 University College London  involved in the research, said in a
telephone interview. “Now we know it is sustained, and the
long-term recovery appears to be comparable to conventional
transplant.”  In gene therapy, scientists replace non-functioning genes
with normal ones using a carrier molecule such as a virus;
repair abnormal DNA; or alter how the DNA works.  Therapy Controversy  Use of the therapy has been controversial, and not always
successful.  In 1999, 18-year-old  Jesse Gelsinger  died of a massive
immune response within hours of being treated for a liver
disease at the  University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia. That
was followed in 2007 by the death of a woman who received a
modified gene in an arthritis trial run by Targeted Genetics
Corp., now called Amphliphi Biosciences Corp., of  Seattle .  The bubble boy disorder, formally known as severe combined
immunodeficiency, gained national prominence in the late 1970s
after reports surfaced about how  David Vetter  was living in a
special bubble-like structure in  Texas . Vetter died in 1984,
after a bone marrow transplant from his sister failed.  The research was one of two studies reported today on the
disorder. In one, six children, ages 6 months to 3 years, with a
version of the disease called  ADA-SCID , were treated, and four
responded, according to the research.  In the second study, 10 children, ages 4 months to 3.8
years with a version called  SCID-X1 , all responded. One of the
children developed leukemia as a result of the treatment,
probably because of the virus used to deliver the new genes,
said Thrasher, an author of the two studies.  The patient with leukemia was successfully treated with
other therapies, the report said. The two children who didn’t
respond to gene therapy may have not had enough gene-corrected
bone marrow cells, according to the research.  Survival Rate  The survival rate in both studies was 100 percent, Thrasher
said. That compares to transplant from a non-sibling donor,
where 70 to 80 percent of patients survive, he said. Today’s
findings are similar to previous studies of gene therapy in
other children with the condition.  “These approaches are having a benefit for the majority of
patients, they’re leading relatively normal lives because of
these treatments,” said  Donald Kohn , an immunologist at the
University of California Los Angeles, in an accompanying
editorial.  Another round of trials will begin shortly, Kohn said. In
those trials, researchers have changed the viruses used to
insert the new DNA. The researchers are hoping for the same
benefits with fewer risks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 