-- 
German Business Confidence Index Drops to Lowest Level in More Than a Year

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-08-24T09:29:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/german-business-confidence-index-drops-to-lowest-level-in-more-than-a-year.html
German business confidence fell to
the lowest in more than a year as a global slowdown and Europe’s
debt crisis damped the outlook for economic growth.  The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 108.7
in August from 112.9 in July. That’s the lowest since June 2010.
Economists forecast a decline to 111, according to the median
prediction of 37 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
index reached a record high of 115.4 in February.  Germany ’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  has plunged almost 25 percent
since late July on fears that another global slump will sap
demand for the country’s exports, the main driver of its
economic expansion. The debt crisis is also curbing demand
within the euro area as governments from  Greece  to Spain cut
spending. German growth slowed to just 0.1 percent in the second
quarter from 1.3 percent in the first, the Federal Statistics
Office reported on Aug. 16.  “The figures are quite disappointing but they’re no reason
to panic,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-region economist at
Citigroup Inc. in London. “The economic recovery in Germany has
seen its peak but we won’t see growth stagnating or a recession
as order books are full and domestic demand will kick in.”  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation decreased to 118.1
from 121.4, while an index measuring executives’ expectations
fell to 100.1 from 105.  Investor Confidence  Investor confidence plunged the most in five years this
month, the ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said yesterday. It cited fears of a U.S. recession and  Europe ’s
debt crisis.  “What we’ve seen are turbulences worldwide in financial
markets and we’ve seen indications that the U.S. business cycle
is much weaker than previously thought and of course the German
economy is not immune” to that, the Ifo Institute’s Kai Carstensen said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
 David Tweed  today.  Growth in the 17-member euro area, Germany’s main export
market, slowed to 0.2 percent in the second quarter from 0.8
percent in the first. UniCredit Global Research yesterday cut
its growth forecasts for the region. The economy will expand 1.7
percent this year and 1 percent in 2012, UniCredit’s chief euro-
zone economist  Marco Valli  said, paring his estimates from 2.1
percent and 1.7 percent respectively.  Weakened Demand  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s biggest steelmaker, on Aug. 12
posted fiscal third-quarter earnings that missed analyst
estimates as European demand weakened.  Euro area industrial orders unexpectedly fell in June, data
published by the European Union’s statistics office today show.
Orders slipped 0.7 percent after rising 3.6 percent in May.  The  Bundesbank  said this week it still expects the German
economy to expand about 3 percent this year as unemployment at a
two-decade low of 7 percent bolsters household spending. Growth
in the country’s manufacturing industry unexpectedly held steady
this month, a survey of purchasing managers showed yesterday.  Luxury carmaker  Audi AG (NSU)  is hiring staff to increase
production, including a 57 percent capacity boost for the
69,600-euro ($101,400) A8 flagship sedan, on expectations that
the luxury-auto industry will weather the stock-market slump.  “The current level of Ifo’s headline index is indeed a long
way above the levels usually consistent with recessions in
Germany,”  Ken Wattret , chief euro area market economist at BNP
Paribas in  London  said in an e-mailed note.  The euro rose 0.1 percent today to $1.4458 as of 10:24 a.m.
in London. Germany’s DAX was up 1.1 percent at 5593.90.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  