-- 
German Stocks Advance for Second Straight Day; BMW, Daimler, SAP Climb

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-08-24T16:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/german-stocks-climb-for-second-day-as-deutsche-boerse-sap-shares-advance.html
German stocks rose for a second day
after a report on U.S. durable-goods orders beat forecasts and
amid ongoing speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will act to
bolster the world’s largest economy.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  advanced after
the U.S. government said orders for cars increased 12 percent in
July.  SAP AG (SAP)  rose 3.2 percent as Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc advised buying shares in the world’s largest maker of
 business software .  The  DAX Index (DAX)  advanced 148.7, or 2.7 percent, to 5,681.08
at the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The gauge dropped 8.6
percent last week as concern escalated that the global economy
is slowing and as euro-area leaders failed to restore investor
confidence. The DAX has tumbled 25 percent since this year’s
high on May 2 to 8.7 times the estimated earnings of its
constituent companies, near the cheapest valuation since October
2008, according to Bloomberg data. The broader HDAX Index rose
2.7 percent today.  “Investors are starting to look through the dark cloud to
see the promised land of cheap valuations,” said  Henk Potts ,
who helps oversee $239 billion as an equity strategist at
Barclays Wealth in London. “It’s not bargains that matter, it
is buyers. And finally, investors seem to be willing to put
their heads above the parapet.”  Jackson Hole  Meeting  U.S. central bankers meet on Aug. 26 at an annual
conference sponsored by the Fed Bank of Kansas City. Investors
have speculated Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may signal his
willingness to continue the bank’s policy of so-called
quantitative easing to ensure economic growth.  “It won’t have the name QE3, but there is tremendous
attention that we will get even lower interest yields,” said
 Robert Halver , chief strategist at Baader Bank AG in  Frankfurt .
“Interest rates for holding money should hold down to zero, so
banks have no reason to hold it in liquidity. It’s a move to
force banks to invest their money in the market and the
economy.”  Stocks held gains today even after German business
confidence fell to the lowest in more than a year as a global
slowdown and Europe’s debt crisis damped the outlook for
economic growth. The report followed yesterday’s index of
investor confidence from the ZEW Center for European Economic
Research, which plunged the most in almost three years.  Bookings in the U.S. for goods meant to last at least three
years rose 4 percent, their biggest gain in four months, after
falling a revised 1.3 percent in June, the Commerce Department
said today. The median projection of 81 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 2 percent gain.  BMW, the world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , surged
4.3 percent to 53.57 euros. Daimler, the second-biggest, jumped
5.2 percent to 36.05 euros.  Vehicle Sales  The gain in U.S. durable-goods orders reflected a rebound
in production at vehicle makers following supply disruptions
caused by the earthquake in  Japan  in March. Orders for motor
vehicles and parts jumped 12 percent, the most since 2003.  SAP rose 3.2 percent to 36.37 euros. RBS rated the stock as
“buy” in new coverage, saying the shares may climb to 42.40
euros apiece amid growing sales.  Fresenius Medical Care AG declined 2.1 percent to 46.85
euros as the provider of kidney-dialysis services was rated
“sell” in new coverage at MF Global.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  