-- 
Gevo, Elsevier, Micro Focus, Apple: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-24T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/gevo-reed-elsevier-bat-micro-focus-apple-intellectual-property.html
Gevo Inc., a company involved
developing the technology for biofuels, will ask the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office to invalidate a patent issued to Butamax
Advanced Biofuels LLC, the Englewood, Colorado-based company
said in a  statement .  At issue is Butamax patent 7,851,188, which was issued in
December 2010. The company said it would also seek invalidation
of Butamax’s patent 7,993,889, issued Aug. 9.  The technologies and process steps involved in these two
patents were published in numerous scientific journals or
invented by others, Brett Lund, Gevo executive vice president
and general counsel, said in the company statement.  Butamax sued Gevo in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
for patent infringement in January, shortly after the first of
the two disputed patents was issued. Gevo responded in March,
denying all claims of infringement.  Butamax is a joint venture of DuPont & Co and  BP Plc. (BP)   The case is Butamax Advanced Biofuels LLC v. Gevo Inc.,
1:11-cv-00054-SLR-MPT, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Reed Elsevier’s LexisNexis Sued for Infringement by Bar Group  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL) ’s LexisNexis unit was sued in a trademark
infringement suit brought by the State Bar of Wisconsin.  According to the complaint filed Aug. 19 in federal court
in Madison, Wisconsin, LexisNexis is using a logo on its
Lawyers.com website that is “strikingly similar” to the bar
group’s pillar icon trademark that was registered with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office in April 2011.  The bar group claims that “confusion is inevitable,” and
says members of the legal profession and the public will falsely
think some connection exists between Lawers.com and “the
services offered by the State Bar.”  It asked the court to declare that the LexisNexis pillar
mark infringes the bar group’s trademark, and to order an end to
the infringement. It also seeks awards of litigation costs and
attorney fees. The State Bar didn’t ask for an award of money
damages.  LexisNexis spokesman Marc Osborn said in an e-mail that his
company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  The State Bar of Wisconsin is represented by  James D.
Peterson  and  Jennifer L. Gregor  of Godfrey & Kahn SC of
 Milwaukee .  The case is State Bar of Wisconsin v. LexisNexis, 3:11-cv-
00586-slc, U.S. District Court, Western District of Wisconsin
(Madison).  BAT Loses Australia Appeal for Access to Government Papers  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  lost an appeal for the release
of Australian government documents the company said would help
it fight a proposed law to prohibit manufacturers’ markings on
cigarette packages.  Australian Federal Court Chief Justice Patrick Keane
dismissed the appeal today on behalf of a three-judge panel in a
ruling delivered in Brisbane.  The Australian proposal is the first in the world aimed at
banning logos and color variations on cigarette packages.
British American Tobacco is seeking the release of background
documents for legal advice that led to the government’s decision
not to go ahead with a plain-packaging law proposed in the mid-
1990s.  Publication of the legal advice is protected by
parliamentary privilege, the judges said in yesterday’s
decision.  British American Tobacco needed the documents in its
efforts to persuade members of parliament that the legislation
shouldn’t be passed, Allan Myers, British American Tobacco’s
lawyer, told the panel during arguments in  Melbourne  Aug. 3. A
debate on the law is scheduled for next month, he said.  Debate on the current plain-packaging bills should be
delayed until the government stops withholding the legal advice,
Scott McIntyre, spokesman for the London-based cigarette maker,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “It’s unfair on every MP who will be forced to vote on the
bills without seeing the full legal picture,” McIntyre said.  British American Tobacco is considering an appeal of
yesterday’s ruling to the country’s highest court, he said. The
company gets about 25 percent of annual revenue from the Asia-
Pacific region, including  Australia , according to Bloomberg
data.  The government has also proposed changing trademark law to
remove some protections for  intellectual property . Tobacco
companies have said they would use trademark law to fight the
plain-packaging rule on the grounds it would deprive them of the
use of their intellectual property.  Australia had considered plain packaging for cigarettes in
the mid 1990s, and on Dec. 14, 1995, the government received a
13-page report from a commission that studied the proposal,
Myers said. The government released a summary and also issued a
response in 1997 to a separate Senate report, he said.  The background documents that led to the government’s
decision not to go ahead with the earlier plan weren’t released
and the government says they’re privileged and must remain
confidential.  At issue is whether, with the publication of its response
to the Senate report, the government gave up its right to keep
the documents confidential.  The case is British American Tobacco Australia Ltd. v.
Secretary, Department of Health and Ageing, VID314/2011, Federal
Court of Australia (Melbourne).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Micro Focus Brings Infringement Suit Against Aussie Police  Micro Focus International Plc (MCRO)  has sued the New South Wales
Police for copyright infringement,  according to the Australian .  The police are accused of making almost 10,000 unauthorized
copies of Micro Focus software and distributing it to third-
party agencies, the Australian reported.  Its license from Micro Focus authorized the police to make
unlimited copes, law enforcement officials claim, and the
Australian reported.  The police could potentially be required to allow outsiders
to examine its computers in the process of litigation, according
to the Australian.  Apple Seeks to Register ‘Hello From Cupertino’ Trademark  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad and the iPhone, applied to
register am image and the phrase “Hello from Cupertino, CA” as
a trademark, according to the database of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  The image is of a canceled stamp with a flying eagle
design. The cancellation mark is two concentric circles, between
which the text is placed.  The Cupertino, California-based company said it plans to
use the trademark for electronic mail and messaging software.  The application was filed Aug. 15.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Yardi’s Trade Secrets Case Against RealPage Can Go Ahead  Yardi System Inc.’s trade-secrets suit against a competitor
can continue, a federal court in  Los Angeles  said.  The Santa Barbara, California-based software company sued
 RealPage Inc. (RP) , of Carrollton,  Texas , for misappropriating
documentation and other proprietary information, and for
copyright infringement. Yardi claimed RealPage got into a
passwords-protected client support website without
authorization, using passwords belonging to Yardi customers,
consultants and employees.  Closely held Yardi makes software used for property,
investment and construction management in the real estate
industry.  RealPage filed its response in March, alleging antitrust
violations and interference with its customers on Yardi’s part.  In an Aug. 11 ruling, U.S. District Judge Otis D. Wright
rejected RealPage’s antitrust and customer-interference claims.
He said the trade secrets claims from Yardi could go ahead.  Wright also said that that RealPage could amend its claims
and refile within 30 days of his order.  The case is Yardi Systems Inc. v. RealPage Inc., 2:11-cv-
00690-ODW-JEM, U.s. District Court, Central District of
 California  (Los Angeles).  IP Moves  Fox Rothschild Adds Three IP Practitioners to Los Angeles Office  Fox Rothschild LLP acquired Chan Law Group LLP of Los
Angeles, the Roseland, New Jersey-based firm said in a
statement.  All three members of the Chan Law Group are moving to Fox
Rothschild’s offices in Los Angeles. They are Thomas T. Chan,
Lisa A. Karczewski and Steven S. Hanagami.  Chan  does IP-related litigation, mediation and
transactional work for clients in the technology and
entertainment industries, and with issues relating to  China . He
previously served as general counsel to Lee Data Corp.  He has an undergraduate degree and a law degree from the
University of  Wisconsin .  Karczewski  does both patent-acquisition work and
litigation. She’s represented clients in the aerospace,
biomedical, energy, materials science, mechanical and polymer
chemistry industries in federal courts and before the U.S.
International Trade Commission and the Trademark Trial and
Appeal Board.  She did a law clerkship in the Office of Patents & New
Technology at the California Institute of Technology NASA Jet
Propulsion Laboratory. Before Karczewski was a lawyer, she was a
research assistant at the William Beaumont Hospital Research
Institute and a medical research technician at the Tulane
University School of Medicine Endocrine Polypeptide & Cancer
Institute at Tulane University Medical Center.  Karczewski has an undergraduate degree from Michigan State
University and a law degree from University of the Pacific’s
McGeorge School of Law.  Hanagami  does both patent-acquisition work and litigation.
He’s represented clients whose technologies include electronics,
and mechanical and material sciences. He’s also done trademark
litigation.  Before he was a lawyer, he was a technical manager at Keyes
Fiber Col., an engineer at Lever Brothers CO., and a project
engineer at ICI Americas Inc.’s Stuart Pharmaceuticals unit.  Hanagami has undergraduate degrees from the  University of
California  at Los Angeles and California State University
Fullerton, and a law degree from George  Washington  University.  Obituary  Elizabeth Pignatello, Trademark Lawyer, Dies in Plane Crash  Elizabeth Pignatello  of Washington’s  Cameron LLP  died Aug.7
at the age of 39 in the crash of a small private plane in
 Virginia .  She was a former trademark examiner at the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office, and practiced IP and securities law with her
firm.  The plane in which she was flying was piloted by  Lt.
Colonel Shannon Beebe , a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy,
and an Africa expert who was stationed at the Pentagon.
 According to ABC affiliate WJLA , he and Pignatello had been
dating for about a year. He also died in the crash.  Pignatello had an undergraduate degree from the  University
of Michigan  and a law degree from Washington College of the Law.  She is survived by her two children, her mother, father and
stepfather.  Her memorial was held Aug. 15  at Christ Church in
Alexandria, Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 