-- 
PPR Watchmaker Girard-Perregaux Seeks to Curb Reliance on Chinese Market

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-08-24T22:00:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/girard-perregaux-seeks-to-curb-china-reliance.html
Girard-Perregaux , the 220-year-old
Swiss watch brand controlled by  PPR (PP)  SA, wants to expand in the
U.S. and  South America  as it aims to reduce its reliance on
China and as more Europeans seek alternative forms of luxury.  While the maker of the “1966” timepiece, which retails
for as much as 54,650 Swiss francs ($69,000), has to keep up
with the growth of the market in China, where it gets more than
40 percent of sales, “we need to balance it with business in
other countries,” according to Stefano Macaluso, managing
director of Girard-Perregaux, which is owned by  Sowind  SA.  Demand in the U.S. has improved since last year and more
Brazilian consumers are buying abroad, Macaluso said in an
interview at the company’s headquarters in La Chaux-de-Fonds. In
 Europe , consumers don’t consider watch purchases a “priority,”
as was the case 20 years ago, he said. Girard-Perregaux expects
shipments to rise 12 percent this year, about the same pace as
in 2010, led by growth in Chinese demand, according to Macaluso.  “My impression is that Europeans, even if they have money,
maybe today are focusing on other kinds of spending” such as
travel, the executive said. That’s his “only concern” about
the watch market. Still, sales in the region are being helped by
tourists, he said.  Gold Bridges  Girard-Perregaux produces about 12,000 timepieces a year,
ranging in price from 7,000 Swiss francs to more than 1.1
million francs. Its best-selling haute horlogerie
model is a Tourbillon with three gold bridges that can sell for
144,000 francs.  Girard-Perregaux aims to maintain the percentage of sales
it gets from  China  over the coming five years, Macaluso said. In
2007, the country accounted for 35 percent to 40 percent of the
company’s revenue.  “Today, the watch market globally is so influenced by
China that maybe other countries are less visible,” he said.
“My only concern about orders is they are coming mostly from
 Asia .” Orders at the Geneva watch fair, an industry gathering
held in January, doubled from 2010 levels, the executive said.  PPR, owner of the Gucci brand and online fashion retailer
Redcats, increased its stake in Sowind to more than 50 percent
last month. Sowind, which also owns the JeanRichard watch brand,
had been controlled by the Macaluso family after Stefano’s
father, Luigi, a former racing driver and entrepreneur, took
over at the watchmaker in 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  