-- 
Gold Retreats, Capping Biggest Loss Since March 2008 as Haven Demand Wanes

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-08-24T19:14:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/gold-extends-drop-heads-for-biggest-fall-since-2008-as-haven-demand-wanes.html
Gold plunged $104 in  New York ,
capping the biggest drop since March 2008, on speculation that
financial markets may be stabilizing, eroding the appeal of the
precious metal as a haven.  Bullion has tumbled more than 7 percent in two days,
erasing gains in the past two weeks that sent the metal up as
much as 16 percent since Aug. 5 to a record $1,917.90 an ounce
yesterday. On Aug. 16,  Wells Fargo & Co . said in a report that
rising speculative demand from investors had pushed the market
into a “bubble that is poised to burst.”  “This is liquidation from a crowded trade,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at MF Global Holdings
Ltd. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “In the short
run, there’s more optimism and that doesn’t bode well for gold.
Investors have been using gold more as a fear barometer than a
proxy for inflation.”  Gold futures for December delivery plunged 5.6 percent to
settle at $1,757.30 at 2:02 p.m. on the Comex in New York, the
biggest decline for a most-active contract since March 19, 2008.  “The motions that you are seeing are now indications of a
market pop,” Erik Davidson, the deputy chief investment officer
at Wells Fargo and one of the authors of last week’s report,
said in a telephone interview. “People should keep in mind that
a  reserve currency  does not fluctuate as much as gold.”  Durable Goods  U.S. equities gained after reports on durable-goods orders
and  home prices  beat analyst forecasts. The dollar rose against
a basket of six major currencies amid speculation about whether
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will say this week that
the central bank is willing to provide more stimulus to the
economy. Central bankers meet this week in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming, to address the U.S. recovery.  “Investors are paring down positions in gold on
expectations Bernanke will do something to boost equity
prices,” Klopfenstein of MF Global said.  Gold has gained 24 percent this year as burgeoning global
debt crises and turmoil in equity markets boosted the appeal of
the metal as an alternative asset.  “ Europe  is on vacation and the sovereign-debt fears are
being addressed,”  Frank Lesh , a trader at FuturePath Trading,
said in a telephone interview from Chicago. “The  currency
markets  are pretty stable and not scaring anybody at the
moment.”  Soros, Paulson  In the second quarter,  George Soros  and  Eric Mindich  cut
their holdings in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest exchange-
traded fund backed by the metal. Paulson & Co., the U.S. hedge
fund run by  John Paulson , maintained its position of 31.5
million shares, the biggest stake in the ETF.  The SPDR Gold Trust surpassed its equities counterpart as
the biggest ETF by market value on Aug. 19. On that day, the
bullion fund’s market capitalization rose to $76.7 billion,
driven by rising prices of the metal which topped $1,900 for the
first time ever on Aug. 22. SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust, which had
been the industry’s largest ETF since 1993, stood at $74.4
billion. As of yesterday, the gold ETF was valued at $73.9
billion, while the equities fund was at $79.5 billion.  “We exited one third of our gold position yesterday, and
in retrospect we should have exited 150 percent of our long
position,”  Dennis Gartman , an economist and the editor of the
Gartman Letter, wrote today in his daily report. “The biggest
news of all, in our opinion, was that the capitalization of
the” gold fund had surpassed the equity ETF.  Japan ’s Imperial Palace  “This is classic,” Gartman wrote. “It reminded us of the
times past when the valuation of Japan’s Imperial Palace
surpassed the valuation of all of California.”  Gold fell from a then-record when Comex owner CME Group
Inc. raised margins on Aug. 11. The Shanghai Gold Exchange said
higher margin requirements will go into effect from settlement
on Aug. 25.  Holdings of bullion-backed ETPs fell for a third day
yesterday, sliding 1.1 percent to 2,181.6 metric tons, the
biggest drop since January, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Assets reached a record 2,216.8 tons on Aug. 8.  “Gold got pushed up on the idea that Bernanke will
announce further quantitative easing,” Patricia Mohr, a
commodity-market specialist at  Scotia Capital , said in a
telephone interview. “Now people are not so sure whether that
will happen and that is creating disappointment in the gold
market.”  The decline may be a buying opportunity to some investors,
said James Dailey, who manages $200 million at TEAM Financial
Management in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.  “A lot of traders and investors who are long-term bullish
on gold sold out hoping for a correction because of how much it
went up,” said Dailey. “The drivers remain intact. The
toughest thing to do is stay invested during the various
parabolas and sit through the corrections.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  