-- 
Golfers Begin Quest for $10 Million and PGA Tour Season Title at Barclays

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-08-25T04:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/golfers-begin-quest-for-10-million-and-pga-tour-season-title-at-barclays.html
Jim Furyk  may face more difficulty
trying to retain the  FedEx Cup  title and cash in another $10
million bonus when the U.S.  PGA Tour ’s playoffs begin today.  Being seeded 60th in the  standings  heading into the opening
 Barclays  event in Edison, New Jersey, isn’t the only reason.
There are 123 golfers in the field for the Barclays.  With 12 first-time winners on the U.S. PGA Tour this season
and no player posting more than two victories, the top 10 in the
FedEx Cup standings are separated by 440 points going into the
first of four playoff events.  Tiger Woods , a two-time winner of
the points tile, failed to qualify for the playoffs for the
first time since the format was introduced in 2007.  “Now that times have changed, it’s kind of up for grabs,”
Furyk, 41, said during a media conference call at Atlanta’s  East
Lake Golf Club , where he won the title and a $10 million bonus
to secure his first Player of the Year honor. “It’s a good time
for our tour. Our fans are getting to know a lot more of the
younger guys and I think it’s great for our game.”  Nick Watney , 30, holds the top seed heading into today’s
first round at the Donald Ross-designed  Plainfield Country Club .
He’s 41 points ahead of 44-year-old  Steve Stricker  and 45 points
ahead of 26-year-old Webb Simpson.  Watney, Stricker, Bubba Watson,  Mark Wilson  and PGA
Championship winner Keegan Bradley are the only players to win
more than one title this season. Stricker enters the playoffs in
second place for the third straight year.  For Simpson, who also had two second-place finishes this
year, the pressure of trying to win the overall title has become
a little easier to deal with following his first career win at
the Wyndham Championship on Aug. 21.  “I know if I’m in contention, what I went through last
week will help me,” Simpson said at a news conference.  Young Golfers  In just his third full year on the world’s richest golf
circuit, Simpson is part of a young breed of golfers attempting
to steal the spotlight that Woods, the winner of 14 major
titles, had commanded for the past 13 years.  “You’re seeing kind of a generational change,” Simpson
said. “A lot of young guys are playing well. Young guys are
giving other young guys confidence. It is pretty cool to see.
It’s almost turned into old versus young guys.”  Those old guys now include 41-year-old  Phil Mickelson , who
ranks sixth in the FedEx Cup standings following a season that
included one victory among five top-10 finishes, and 48-year-old
 Vijay Singh , who hasn’t won a tournament since the 2008 Deutsche
Bank Championship.  The Deutsche Bank is the second playoff tournament and will
be held at the TPC Boston course beginning Sept. 2. The top 100
players in the FedEx Cup standings after the Barclays will
advance to the next stop in Norton,  Massachusetts .  Cuts Continue  After a one-week break, the top 70 players in the Deutsche
Bank will then compete in the  BMW Championship  in  Chicago 
followed by the  Tour Championship  in Atlanta, where the top 30
players will vie for the points title and bonus.  Another one of the game’s lesser-known players seeking the
title is Watney, who won the Cadillac Championship at Doral in
Miami in March and Woods’s AT&T National event near Philadelphia
last month. The victories were among eight top-10 finishes for
Watney, propelling him to the top of the points standings.  “It’s nice to start there, but you have to play well to
stay there,” he said. “A lot can happen.”  A year ago, Furyk went on to win the title after being
disqualified from the Barclays event when he arrived late for
his pro-am tee time a day before the tournament began. That led
one of his sponsors to send Furyk a travel alarm clock as a
Christmas gift.  “I’ve definitely taken my fair share of ribbing about
it,” Furyk said. “Rightfully so. I deserve it. I’ll be all
right.”  Suspended Rule  The tour then suspended the rule for the remainder of the
playoffs after several players, including Mickelson, criticized
the policy.  Heath Slocum entered last year’s Barclays 124th in the
standings and jumped up to No. 3 with a victory at Ridgewood
Country Club in  New Jersey . In the past two years, nine players
ranked outside the top 100 have advanced to the Deutsche Bank
tournament with strong performances at the playoff opener. With
each playoff victory worth 2,500 points, any player can move
into the top five with a victory this week.  “It definitely makes the end of the year a little more
exciting,” Watney said. “It used to kind of drag on. The idea
is good. It’s taking hold a little bit and I think the players
enjoy it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  