-- 
Goodale Says Liberal Leaders Won’t Be ‘Twisting in the Wind’ by Attack Ads

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-08-24T14:58:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/goodale-says-liberal-leaders-won-t-be-twisting-in-the-wind-by-attack-ads.html
Canada ’s once-dominant  Liberal Party 
will need the capacity to fund advertisements that can respond
to political attacks outside of election campaigns and develop a
simpler message on the economy in order to return to power, its
deputy leader said.  “We need to have a clearer message about the economy;
clearer, simple, straightforward,”  Ralph Goodale , who was first
elected to Parliament in 1974, said in a Bloomberg News
interview in Ottawa. “And we need to have the wherewithal to
drive that message home in terms of campaign and in terms of
pre-campaign financing.”  The Liberals, who governed consecutively between 1993 and
2006, suffered their worst electoral defeat in May 2 elections
that saw Conservative Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  win a
majority of seats in the House of Commons and the New Democratic
Party take over as the largest opposition party.  Former Liberal leader  Michael Ignatieff  was handcuffed by a
lack of money to counter pre-election Conservative
advertisements that portrayed him as a foreign elitist with few
links to Canada, Goodale said. The ads claimed Ignatieff, who
lived outside of Canada for 34 years before returning in 2005 to
enter politics, was “just visiting” the country.  Ignatieff was running his first campaign since taking over
in May 2009 from Stephane Dion, who had been the first Liberal
leader in a century who didn’t become prime minister and who was
also the target of Conservative negative advertising.  “We should never in the future face the circumstance where
our leader is left twisting in the wind without the resources to
fight back,” Goodale said in an interview.  Interim Leader  Bob Rae, a former  New Democratic Party  premier of Ontario,
was chosen as interim Liberal leader until the party selects a
new chief in 2013.  Goodale’s party was reduced to 34 seats in the 308-seat
House of Commons, down from the 77 in the 2008 election. In the
2000 election, they held 172 of 301 seats. The Liberal seat
total and share of the vote this year -- 19 percent -- were the
lowest since Canada was founded in 1867, after the party that
had either won or finished second in all of Canada’s 41 general
elections.  The Liberals raised C$25.7 million ($26.1 million) from
individuals between 2007 and 2010, according to data from
 Elections Canada , compared with C$73.3 billion raised by the
 Conservative Party  over that time.  Goodale, who was finance minister under former Prime
Minister Paul Martin, also said in the interview Harper’s
“monotone” insistence on  government spending  cuts may
undermine the economy.  The ruling Conservatives plan to bring the federal
government back into surplus by 2014 by reducing government
spending by C$4 billion ($4.1 billion) annually.  “There are a number of very strategic, critical items
where investments need to be made in order to foster growth in
jobs,” Goodale said. “You won’t get over this hump if all you
do is cut because you could end up actually doing yourself
damage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 