-- 
Google Agrees to Pay U.S. $500 Million in Drug-Advertising Settlement

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-08-24T20:24:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/google-is-said-to-reach-500-million-settlement-with-u-s-over-online-ads.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  agreed to pay $500
million to settle U.S. allegations that advertising for online
Canadian pharmacies on its website allowed illegal imports of
 prescription drugs .  Google was aware as early as 2003 that the shipment of
prescriptions to the U.S. from outside the country is illegal,
the  Department of Justice  said in a  statement . The payment
represents revenue that Google generated from the ads and that
Canadian pharmacies reaped from online drug sales to American
consumers, the DOJ said.  “This settlement ensures that Google will reform its
improper advertising practices with regard to these pharmacies
while paying one of the largest financial forfeiture penalties
in history,” Deputy Attorney General  James Cole  said in the
statement.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine, is
grappling with increasing scrutiny from governments around the
world, including an investigation of its business practices by
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. As part of the settlement
today, there will be “a number of compliance and reporting
measures,” the DOJ said, without providing further details.  Google had $29.3 billion in revenue last year, almost
entirely from advertising. The  Mountain View , California-based
company said in May that it had set aside $500 million to
resolve an investigation of its ad business.  ‘Banned Advertising’  “We banned the advertising of prescription drugs in the
U.S. by Canadian pharmacies some time ago,” Google said in an
e-mailed statement today. “However, it’s obvious with hindsight
that we shouldn’t have allowed these ads on Google in the first
place.”  In 2009, after becoming aware of the investigation, Google
began to take steps to prevent the unlawful sale of drugs,
according to the DOJ. Google  said  that it would only accept U.S.
and Canadian ads from pharmacies certified by the National
Association of Boards of Pharmacy’s Verified Internet Pharmacy
Practice Sites program, known as VIPPS, and the Canadian
International Pharmacy Association.  In December 2010, Google joined  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Yahoo! Inc.
and other companies in helping establish a nonprofit
organization to fight illegal Internet pharmacies. Counterfeit
drug sales account for about $75 billion in  global sales , the
National Association of Boards of Pharmacy said at the time.
About 1 percent to 2 percent of prescription medicines in  North
America  are counterfeit, according to the pharmacy group.  Drug Safety  Shipping prescriptions to the U.S. from outside the country
is generally illegal because the  Food and Drug Administration 
can’t ensure such medicines are safe or effective, the DOJ said.  “The result of this investigation has been a fundamental
transformation of Internet pharmacy advertising practices,
significantly limiting promotion to U.S. consumers by rogue
online pharmacies,” said Kathleen Martin-Weis, acting director
of the FDA’s Office of Criminal Investigations, in the statement.  Google rose $4.47 to $523.29 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have dropped 12 percent this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Strasser at 
 fstrasser@bloomberg.net  