-- 
Google May Consider Acquisitions to Expand in Southeast Asia

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-08-24T13:37:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/google-may-acquire-internet-firms-in-asia-follows-livingsocial.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  may pursue technology
assets to expand in Southeast Asia after Internet operators
including  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  and LivingSocial acquired
companies to add services and users in the region.  “We’ll continue to innovate ourselves, but where it makes
sense, we will look out for opportunities,” Julian Persaud,
managing director for Google in Southeast Asia, said in a video
conference from Bangkok today, without elaborating. He couldn’t
immediately confirm if the U.S. company previously made an
acquisition in Southeast Asia.  Google, owner of the world’s most-popular search engine, is
stepping up expansion in countries including Thailand, Malaysia
and Indonesia, where companies allocate a smaller proportion of
their advertising spending online compared with the U.S. and
 Europe . Tencent,  China ’s biggest Internet company by revenue,
and LivingSocial, the second-biggest coupon site, have unveiled
investments in Southeast Asian Web firms in the past two years.  Internet advertising accounts for 1 percent to 2 percent of
the marketing spending of companies in Southeast Asia, excluding
 Singapore , Persaud said. That compares with 27 percent in the
U.K., and about 20 percent in Australia and the U.S., he said.  “We have proven recently as a company, that we are
prepared to make acquisitions, wherever it makes sense,”
Persaud said. “It wouldn’t make sense to exclude a part of the
world, and say we wouldn’t look there.”  Earlier this month, Google agreed to buy Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. for $12.5 billion in its largest acquisition.  Google+  The Mountain View, California-based company will focus its
efforts on Google+, rather than Orkut, in  Southeast Asia ’s
social-networking market, Persaud said. Google is working on
developing local versions of products including mapping and the
Chrome Web browser, he said.  “A lot of our activity will be based around the Google+,
rather than Orkut, in this region,” Persaud said. “It’s still
a project.”  In June, Google unveiled its new Google+ social-networking
service with streaming updates of photos, messages and other
content from selected groups of friends, in a fresh attempt to
compete with Facebook Inc.  Orkut, a social network started by Google in 2004, is
popular in markets such as India and Brazil.  Google today said it would open an office in Bangkok, after
setting up operations in  Malaysia  earlier this year.  Tencent last year bought a 49.9 percent stake in Thailand’s
Sanook. LivingSocial this month said it will buy TicketMonster
Inc., a South Korean company that also offers services in
Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  