-- 
Great Lake States Lose Appeal of Effort to Keep Asian Carp Out of Waters

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-24T23:45:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/great-lake-states-lose-appeal-of-effort-to-keep-asian-carp-out-of-waters.html
Five U.S. states lost a bid to
overturn a court’s rejection of their request to close links
between the Great Lakes and Mississippi River to halt advancing,
invasive Asian carp.  Michigan ,  Minnesota , Wisconsin,  Ohio  and  Pennsylvania  had
sued the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers and an  Illinois  waterways
management agency, claiming the voracious fish threatened a
$7.09 billion sport fishing and tourism industry. Steps taken to
stop the entry into the lakes were ineffectual, they alleged.  U.S. District Judge Robert M. Dow in  Chicago  last year
rejected the states’ request, concluding they hadn’t shown the
requisite imminent harm. A three-judge appellate panel of the
U.S. Circuit Court in Chicago today upheld the lower-court
ruling on different grounds.  “If the invasion comes to pass, there is little doubt that
the harm to the plaintiff states would be irreparable,” U.S.
Circuit Judge Diane P. Wood wrote in a  57-page ruling . “That
does not mean, however, that they are automatically entitled to
injunctive relief.”  Asian carp escaped into the  Mississippi  after being brought
to the U.S. to cleanse fish ponds and sewage lagoons and in
ballast water discharged by ocean-going ships. The fish grow as
big as 100 pounds (45 kilograms) and feed on plankton that
native species need to survive, according to the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.  The states seek closure of locks at the mouths of the
Chicago and Calumet rivers, where they meet Lake Michigan, as
well as installation of permanent screens, grates and other
measures to stop the alleged migration.  Chicago, the third-most populous U.S. city, abuts the
southwestern edge of the lake.  ‘Full-Scale Effort’  The Army Corps, Illinois’ Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago and other agencies and experts
“have mounted a full-scale effort to stop the carp from
reaching the  Great Lakes ,” Wood said in a decision, joined by
circuit judges Daniel Manion and Ann Claire Williams.  Those efforts -- which included the erection of electronic
barriers and poisoning the water -- diminished the need for
injunctive relief, the judges said.  “An interim injunction would only get in the way,” the
court said, cautioning that if the agencies relax their efforts
or new information is revealed, the court’s conclusion could be
revisited.  “We’re disappointed in this preliminary ruling,” Joy
Yearout, a spokeswoman for Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette, said in an e-mail. The underlying lawsuit continues,
she said.  ‘Ecological Separation’  Schuette remains committed to achieving “a permanent,
long-term ecological separation that protects the Great Lakes,”
Yearout said.  Wisconsin  Attorney General J.B.  Van Hollen , in a separate
statement, agreed.  “I will continue to work with the Department of Natural
Resources and my partners in other Great Lakes states like
Michigan to protect our waters,” Van Hollen said. “That work
will include making important decisions about our litigation
options.”  Wisconsin’s Natural Resources department said Asian carp
had been discovered in the Wisconsin River, and carp DNA had
been found in the St. Croix River, earlier this month, he said.  Dow heard similar DNA evidence before rendering his ruling
last year.  ‘Protect the Ecology’  “Everyone wants to protect the ecology and economic
environment of all stakeholders in the region,” the Water
Reclamation district says in a website posting that addresses
the Asian carp controversy.  The agency, responsible for managing about 76 miles of
waterways linking  Lake Michigan  the Mississippi, says it is
 cooperating  with federal, state and inter-state authorities in
an effort to find a permanent solution.  “Whether or not separation will be found to be economical,
feasible, practical, scientifically justifiable or socially
acceptable is yet to be determined,” according to the
district’s website.  Patricia Young, a spokeswoman for the Water Reclamation
District, did not immediately reply to an e-mailed request for
comment on the appellate ruling.  Effective Solution  “The city is pleased with the result and continues to
believe that the threat posed by Asian carp can best be
addressed by the federal, state and local governments and other
stakeholders cooperatively and expeditiously working to develop
an effective solution,” Jennifer Hoyle, a spokeswoman for
Chicago’s law department, said in an e-mailed statement.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, which argued the case on behalf of the Corps of
Engineers, said he couldn’t immediately comment on the appellate
court decision.  “We take very seriously the threat posed by the invasive
species of carp that have come to dominate parts of the
 Mississippi River  basin and now stand at the border of one of
the most precious freshwater ecosystems in the world,” the
appeals court said.  New evidence, the court said, could ultimately require the
closure of the lake-river links “for a period of time,” adding
that Dow has the authority to revisit the issue.  The case is State of Michigan v. United States Army Corps
of Engineers, 10-3891, U.S. 7th Circuit Court of Appeals
(Chicago). The lower case is State of Michigan v. U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, 10cv4457, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  