-- 
Gulfsands Stops Paying Assad’s Cousin After Syria Sanctions

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-08-24T08:16:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/gulfsands-stops-paying-assad-s-cousin-after-syria-sanctions-1-.html
Gulfsands Petroleum Plc (GPX) , a U.K. oil
explorer working in  Syria , suspended payments to a cousin of the
country’s President Bashar al-Assad as  Europe  imposed sanctions
on the regime after a state crackdown that has killed thousands.  The explorer, operating in Syria since 2000, also suspended
Rami Makhlouf’s voting rights, it said in a statement today.  Makhlouf, owner of 5.75 percent of Gulfsands via Al Mashrek
Global Invest, is one of 13 Syrian officials subject to European
Union sanctions including a visa ban and asset freeze. In 2008,
he was accused by the U.S. Treasury Department of using access
to “high-level” government officials to enrich himself.  Faced with the most serious threat to his family’s 40-year
rule, Assad has deployed tanks, artillery and helicopters to
crush an uprising that began after revolts ousted the leaders of
Tunisia and  Egypt  and sparked a conflict in Libya. More than
2,200 people have been killed during the crackdown, UN High
Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay said yesterday.  “Our commercial relationships with various Makhlouf
interests have at all times been conducted with propriety and in
accordance with pertinent laws and regulations,” Andrew West,
the chairman of London-based Gulfsands, said in the statement.  ‘Constructive’ Relationship  The company described its relationships with the interests
of Makhlouf in the past as “constructive” and said it is
“fully compliant” with U.S. and EU sanctions against Syria.
Its main operation in the nation isn’t affected by the uprising.  The U.S., U.K. and France circulated a draft resolution to
UN Security Council members yesterday seeking to freeze foreign
assets held by Assad, his brother Maher and 21 senior government
officials. The EU expanded an asset freeze and travel ban on
Syrian leaders and is working to prevent imports of crude oil.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , together with U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron , French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , German
Chancellor Angela Merkel and EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton, issued a statement on Aug. 18 saying Assad should leave
and let Syrians chart their own political future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  