-- 
IAG Full-Year Profit More Than Doubles on Rising Income

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-08-24T23:09:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/iag-full-year-profit-more-than-doubles-on-rising-income-1-.html
Insurance Australia Group Ltd. (IAG) , the
Sydney-based insurer formed in 1925, said fiscal-year profit
more than doubled as rising income from premiums offset claims
from natural disasters in Queensland and  New Zealand .  Net income in the 12 months ended June 30 climbed to A$250
million ($262 million) from A$91 million a year earlier, IAG
said today in a statement. The company forecast improved
profitability and faster premium growth this fiscal year.  IAG and rival Suncorp Group Ltd. are among insurers
battered by the worst period of natural disasters on record in
Queensland. To broaden its revenue stream from faster-growing
economies, IAG this month agreed to buy a 20 percent stake in a
Chinese general insurer, Bohai Property Insurance Pty Ltd., for
about A$100 million.  “We have been impressed by recent improvements in IAG’s
core domestic franchise,”  Richard Coles , a Sydney-based analyst
at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, said ahead of today’s report.  IAG shares have fallen 20 percent this year, almost double
the 12 percent decline on the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Gross written premium climbed to A$8.05 billion from A$7.78
billion, while the insurance margin widened to 9.1 percent from
7 percent, IAG said.  “We are confident that the actions we are taking will
further improve our performance,” Chief Executive Officer Mike Wilkins said in the statement. “Our focus is on accelerating
profitable growth in  Australia  and New Zealand and building our
presence in  Asia .”  IAG’s insurance margin will be between 10 percent and 12
percent in the year ending June 2012, and gross written premium
will rise between 6 percent and 9 percent, IAG forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  