-- 
Imperial Holdings Seeks More Purchases to Boost Growth at Logistics Unit

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-08-24T16:19:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/imperial-holdings-seeks-more-purchases-to-boost-growth-at-logistics-unit.html
Imperial Holdings Ltd. (IPL) , the South
African freight-transport operator that has bought nine
companies in the past year, said it plans to expand through
acquisitions and may buy back more of its shares.  A debt-to-equity ratio of 34 percent, compared with the
company’s target of 60 percent to 80 percent, leaves Imperial
with “significant room for expansion,” the Johannesburg-based
company said in a statement today. Acquisitions in the past two
years have boosted sales by about 7 billion rand ($967 million).  “We have a couple of billion rand to spend on
acquisitions,” Chief Executive Officer Hubert Brody said in a
telephone interview today. The focus will continue to be in
Africa and south of the equator, he added.  Imperial, which owns South  Africa ’s largest auto-dealer
network and a logistics business in  Germany , said on July 11
that it’s in talks to buy a company abroad, without giving
details of the negotiations. The company will use its purchase
of CIC Holdings Ltd., a distributor of vehicles in southern
Africa, to drive its African expansion, Imperial said.  Depending on how the company progresses with acquisitions,
it might consider returning more cash to investors through share
buybacks, Brody said. Dividends paid in the past financial year,
together with share buybacks, returned in excess of 1 billion
rand to investors, he said.  Stock Declines  Imperial Holdings declined 1.3 percent to 106.99 rand as of
the 5 p.m. close of trading in Johannesburg. The stock has
fallen 16 percent this year, giving the company a market value
of 24.8 billion rand.  “We’ll definitely add to our distribution businesses and
we will increase our financial-services business,” Brody said.
The financial-services division, which includes the
LiquidCapital business-to-business brand, will grow through new
divisions or the expansion of existing ones, Brody said.  Financial services generated operating profit of 760
million rand from in the year through June, the company said in
a statement today.  Imperial reported a 38 percent increase in earnings per
share before one-time items to 13.70 rand in the year, beating
the 11.99 rand median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Revenue gained 21 percent to 64.7 billion rand.
The company raised its full-year dividend to 4.80 rand a share
from 3.50 rand a year earlier.  The “extremely volatile and uncertain conditions” in the
global economy will make it challenging for the company to
achieve “meaningful” growth in fiscal 2012, Imperial said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  