-- 
India Activists, Government Narrow Differences

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-08-24T05:39:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/india-activists-government-narrow-differences.html
India ’s government and civil society
activists narrowed differences over the powers of a proposed law
to fight corruption, the clearest sign yet of concessions that
may end a nine-day hunger strike and street protests.  The government now has “no objection” to including the
prime minister in the scope of the so-called Lokpal Bill, said
 Prashant Bhushan , a key aide to Anna Hazare, 74, whose fast has
tapped widespread anger over bribe-taking in public life.
Oversight of the prime minister’s office was excluded from draft
legislation approved by the cabinet and forwarded to a panel of
lawmakers for scrutiny.  Offering their own compromise, Hazare’s advisers agreed to
a government proposal that graft cases involving senior judges
will be dealt with by a separate law, Arvind Kejriwal, one of
the team, told supporters yesterday. Three “sticky issues”
remain, Kejriwal said: whether to include the lower rungs of the
bureaucracy in the bill, establishing anti-corruption ombudsmen
in India’s states and preparing “citizens’ charters” to cover
the working of ministries.  Hazare’s fast has sparked protests by supporters
nationwide, with the biggest demonstrations in New Delhi at the
weekend drawing up to 50,000 people. The rallies have added to
pressure on Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , who has seen his
legislative agenda grind to a halt amid graft allegations that
first surfaced in October, the biggest of which involves the
2008 sale of permits to run mobile-phone services that the
country’s auditor says may have cost the exchequer $31 billion.  Olive Branch   Singh yesterday reached out to Hazare, appealing to him to
call off his hunger strike and offering to refer to the
parliamentary panel studying the issue the activist’s proposals
for stronger laws. His olive branch helped initiate the first
high-level talks between the two sides since the crisis began.  Many of Singh’s main rivals have rounded on the prime
minister despite having their own reservations over the tactics
being deployed by Hazare and the wisdom of creating a single
all-powerful corruption fighting body that may grow to be
unwieldy. Political leaders will hold a cross-party meeting
today in an attempt to build a wider consensus.  Hazare and his supporters have not withdrawn a demand that
their proposals for an agency with sweeping powers to
investigate and prosecute corruption cases be approved by
parliament by the end of August.  A leader of the main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party ,
Sushma Swaraj, has called the government’s version of the Lokpal
legislation “ineffective.”  Danger to Democracy  The prime minister last week condemned Hazare’s mode of
protest as “totally misconceived” and a danger to India’s
parliamentary democracy. He should take his arguments to elected
representatives not the street, Singh said.  “There is a lot of power in the non-violence movement and
you should ensure its flames are not doused,” Hazare, who has
fashioned his fast on those of his self-proclaimed inspiration,
Indian independence icon  Mahatma Gandhi , said yesterday.  An earlier hunger strike by Hazare in April first grabbed
the attention of television channels that had exposed graft
cases in the heart of government, including alleged
irregularities in completing contracts for last year’s
Commonwealth Games in  New Delhi . The government invited social
activists for talks on framing the Lokpal Bill. Hazare says
their suggestions were ignored.  A former telecom minister, a federal lawmaker and
businessmen have been jailed and are on trial in New Delhi over
their role in the sale of mobile phone licenses.  “I am hopeful we will be able to work out a solution,”
Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee, said yesterday following his
talks with aides of Hazare.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  