-- 
Intel-Backed Solar Company Files for Bankruptcy as Prices Slide

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-08-24T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/intel-backed-solar-company-files-for-bankruptcy-as-prices-slide.html
SpectraWatt Inc., a closely held
maker of solar products backed by units of  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection , the second U.S. solar company to do so this month as
panel prices fall.  SpectraWatt owes creditors $38.7 million and is planning to
auction almost all of its assets, which the Hopewell Junction,
New York-based company valued at $33.9 million in a filing with
the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Poughkeepsie,  New York .  The company said it was forced to seek protection from
creditors because of increasing competition from Chinese rivals
and deteriorating prices in the solar industry, according to the
Aug. 19 filing. Evergreen Solar Inc. cited similar reasons for
its Aug. 15 bankruptcy filing.  “United States-based manufacturers are under a great deal
of stress because of the emergence of manufacturers in  China ,
who receive considerable government and financial support,”
SpectraWatt’s Chief Restructuring Officer and Chief Executive
Officer Brad Walker said in the filing. “This support, coupled
with China’s inexpensive production costs, have created a
competitive advantage for Chinese manufacturers and allowed them
to become price leaders within the industry.”  ‘Noncompetitive Production’  SpectraWatt had a “noncompetitive  production line  based in
the U.S., without means to reduce that cost,”  Edwin Mok, an
analyst for Needham & Co., said yesterday in an e-mail. As solar
prices fell, the company was “stuck in a situation where there
was nothing else they could do.”  Both SpectraWatt and Evergreen have technology that’s “not
competitive, and there was no method to reduce cost to make it
competitive with Asian manufacturers,” he said.  Prices for multi-crystalline silicon modules dropped 13
percent from July to $1.37 a watt, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance’s monthly spot survey.  SpectraWatt shut down its Hopewell Junction manufacturing
plant in April, dismissing all 117 workers. It relocated its
headquarters there in 2009 from Hillsboro,  Oregon .  The solar cell maker also said it had received defective
manufacturing equipment and silicon wafers from vendors, forcing
it to sell finished products at reduced prices that led to
losses, according to the filing.  More Failures  The company has received interest from foreign buyers
though hasn’t secured a lead bidder for the planned auction
because the potential buyers aren’t familiar with U.S.
bankruptcy policies, it said. SpectraWatt wants to hold the
auction Sept. 28, before the market is inundated with equipment
from other failing solar companies.  “Within the next three to six months, there is a high
likelihood that a significant amount of used solar cell
manufacturing equipment and related assets will flood the market
and drive down the value of the debtor’s assets,” Walker said
in the filing.  SpectraWatt was spun off from Intel, the world’s biggest
chipmaker, in June 2008 and raised $50 million by selling
preferred stock to its former parent and other investors
including Goldman’s Cogentrix Energy LLC, PCG Clean Energy &
Technology Fund LLC and Berlin-based solar panel maker  Solon SE (SOO1) ,
according to court documents.  Evergreen Solar, a rival U.S. solar panel maker, sought
 bankruptcy protection  last week, owing creditors about $485.6
million. Evergreen’s convertible noteholders have agreed to buy
the company at auction offering to forgive debt owed to them
instead of cash.  The case is In re SpectraWatt Inc, 11-37366, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Poughkeepsie).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Herndon in Washington at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in New York at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  