-- 
International Paper May Cut Takeover Bid, Analysts Say

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-08-24T23:10:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/international-paper-may-cut-takeover-bid-analysts-say-1-.html
International Paper Co. (IP)  may cut its
$3.31 billion takeover offer for  Temple-Inland Inc. (TIN)  after shares
of rival packaging makers fell and the U.S. economic outlook
weakened, Royal Bank of  Canada  and Deutsche Bank AG said.  Temple-Inland is trading at a 26 percent discount to
International Paper’s $30.60-per-share cash bid.  Rock-Tenn Co. (RKT) ,
North America’s second-largest maker of corrugated containers,
is down 29 percent since International Paper publically made its
offer on June 6, while Packaging Corp. of America has declined
11 percent.  Share prices of Austin, Texas-based Temple-Inland and its
U.S. peers fell along with the broader markets in early August
and expectations for future profitability have decreased, said
 Paul Quinn , a Vancouver-based analyst at Royal Bank. The company
dropped a further 14 percent yesterday after the trustee of a
failed financial unit, Guaranty Financial Group Inc., sued to
recover $1 billion.  “Market conditions have changed since the June 6 bid,”
Quinn said yesterday in a note to clients. “So there may be
scope for International Paper to revise its bid price.”  International Paper will ultimately pay $30 a share for
Temple-Inland, Mark Wilde, a New York-based analyst at Deutsche
Bank, said today in a note. Wilde reduced his estimate from $36,
citing operating problems at a Temple-Inland paperboard mill in
 Louisiana , the lawsuit announced yesterday and a weak outlook
for the  U.S. economy .  Temple-Inland Rejection  Temple-Inland had no comment, said an external spokeswoman
who declined to be identified citing company policy. Tom Ryan,
an International Paper spokesman, declined comment today by e-
mail.  Temple-Inland rose $1.42, or 6.7 percent, to $22.75 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. International
Paper, the world’s largest pulp and paper maker, advanced 99
cents, or 4 percent, to $25.58.  Temple-Inland has rejected International Paper’s offer,
saying on July 18 it “grossly” undervalued the company. To
fend off the bid, Temple-Inland has adopted a so-called poison
pill takeover defense that limits any person or group from
acquiring more than 10 percent of its stock.  Buying Temple-Inland would boost Memphis-based
International Paper’s share of the North American corrugated-
packaging market to about 37 percent from about 27 percent,
International Paper Chief Executive Officer John Faraci said in
June. The acquisition also would enable cost cuts at
International Paper’s corrugated-packaging business and increase
the company’s earnings in the first year, he said.  International Paper’s tender offer for Temple-Inland is
scheduled to expire on Sept. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 