-- 
Lira Weakens First Day in Three After Moody’s Downgrades Japan

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-08-24T15:24:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/lira-weakens-first-day-in-three-after-moody-s-downgrades-japan.html
Turkey ’s lira depreciated for the
first day in three after Moody’s Investors Service cut  Japan ’s
debt rating, overshadowing optimism spurred by expectations the
U.S. Federal Reserve may announce additional asset purchases.  The lira lost 0.7 percent to 1.7815 per dollar at 5:59 p.m.
in Istanbul, retreating after yesterday’s 0.9 percent gain and
making it the third-worst performer today among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Japan’s credit rating by one
step, citing “weak” prospects for growth that will make it
difficult for the government to rein in the world’s largest
public debt burden. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
other central bankers will meet this week in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , and he is scheduled to deliver an address on Aug. 26.  “The expectation that Fed Chairman Bernanke may hint a new
monetary expansion is affecting the market positively,” Fatih Keresteci, a strategist at the Turkish unit of HSBC Holdings
Plc, wrote in a client note. “But Japan’s downgrade has trimmed
this optimism.”  Turkish markets will be closed from midday Aug. 29 through
Sept. 1 because of a religious holiday.  “People possibly do not want to take risk and buy because
of possible negative developments during the holiday”  Emre Balkeser , head of trading at Garanti Securities, said by
telephone.  Yields on the two-year benchmark bonds closed nine basis
points, or 0.9 percentage point, higher at 7.98 percent, the
biggest advance since July 26, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi index of
the securities showed.  Rate Maintained  The Turkish central bank kept the benchmark  interest rate 
at a record low 5.75 percent yesterday.  “There was heavy buying in the benchmark debt in early
this week because of the expectations from the central’s bank
meeting and today some of this was given back,” Ugursel Onder,
a fixed-income analyst at Is Investment Securities, in Istanbul
wrote in e-mailed comments.  The yields fell to as low as 7.69 percent in intraday
trading yesterday as some investors bet on a further interest
rate reduction from the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  