-- 
Iraq Protests to Turkish Ambassador About Cross-Border Attacks

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-08-24T16:16:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/iraq-protests-to-turkish-ambassador-about-cross-border-attacks.html
Iraq  asked Turkey’s ambassador to
tell his government to stop attacks that violate its sovereignty
and target civilians in Kurdish areas of northern Iraq.  “The Iraqi government protested the violation of Iraq’s
sovereignty and the bombardments of border areas and the
targeting of innocent civilians in Kurdistan,” the Baghdad-
based Foreign Ministry said today in a statement posted on the
website of state-sponsored  Iraqiya  television. “The Iraqi
government asks for an immediate halt to these operations.”  Turkey killed as many as 100 members of the Kurdistan
Workers’ Party, or PKK, in air and ground bombardments on 481
targets in northern Iraq, the General Staff in Ankara said in a
preliminary  report  on its website yesterday. More than 80 PKK
members were wounded, the Turkish military said, adding that the
operations will continue.  Increasing violence threatens to derail efforts to resolve
 Turkey ’s Kurdish issue and end a three-decade conflict that has
cost 40,000 lives. The air and ground operation follows an
escalation of attacks by the PKK, classified as a terrorist
organization by Turkey, the U.S. and the European Union. The
PKK, which is fighting for autonomy in southeastern Turkey, has
long used northern Iraq as a base for attacks on Turkish
targets. Kurds in  Iran  have also been accused of using northern
Iraq to engage in armed clashes with Iranian forces.  Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari, an ethnic Kurd,
yesterday denounced Turkish and Iranian bombardments of Kurdish
areas in northern Iraq. He said Iraq, Turkey and the U.S. had
formed a security committee to resolve the conflicts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  