-- 
Irene Heads for North Carolina, New England

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   C o n o r   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-24T16:23:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/irene-likely-to-become-major-hurricane-today-heading-to-north-carolina.html
Irene strengthened to a Category 3
major hurricane as it churned through the Bahamas today on a
path forecast to take it to North Carolina’s  Outer Banks  and
into New England.  The storm, with winds of 115 miles per hour (185 kilometers
per hour), may cause “devastating damage,” the National
Hurricane Center said in an advisory at 11 a.m. Eastern time.
Evacuations began today on the Outer Banks.  Rain, beach erosion and tidal surge “will be in play from
the Mid-Atlantic all the way up to New England as the storm
progresses,” center director Bill Read said in a conference
call today.  The Bahamas “are going through a really tough time here in
the next 24 to 36 hours,” Read said.  Irene, 285 miles southeast of Nassau in the Bahamas, is
forecast to pass near the  North Carolina  coast on Aug. 27 and
then strike Long Island and Rhode Island on a path toward Boston
early on Aug. 28, according to the center’s  projections .  “It looks like it will make landfall as a Category 2 near
the eastern tip of Long Island and then impact New England,”
said  Chris Hyde , a meteorologist with  MDA EarthSat Weather  in
Gaithersburg, Maryland. Hyde said there is a 60 percent to 70
percent chance this track will be accurate. A Category 2 storm
has winds of 96 to 110 mph.  Ocracoke Evacuation  Residents and visitors to Ocracoke Island off the North
Carolina coast started to evacuate early today, the Charlotte
Observer reported. Governor Bev Perdue urged residents yesterday
to have three days of food, water and supplies in case Irene
comes ashore there.  In  New York , the most populous U.S. city with 8.2 million
residents, officials plan open the emergency operations center
in  Brooklyn  today, said Chris Gilbride, spokesman for the Office
of Emergency Management.  Based on information received from the  National Weather
Service , city officials assume a “strong possibility” the storm
“could impact  New York City  or Long Island directly.” It has
tracked slightly to the east during the past 24 hours, Gilbride
said in an interview.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  also ordered the state’s
emergency response team to prepare.  Storm Surges  Irene is moving northwest at 12 mph, according to the NHC.
Hurricane conditions with high winds, heavy rain and deadly surf
are occurring over parts of the southeastern Bahamas, and an
“extremely dangerous” storm surge will raise water as much as
7 to 11 feet above normal tide levels in parts of the island
chain, it said.  Irene’s top winds are forecast to reach 135 mph, or Category
4 on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale, the NHC said.  Tropical-storm-force winds and flooding may affect the New
York City region once Irene moves north, said Kristina Pydynowski, a senior meteorologist with  State College ,
Pennsylvania-based AccuWeather Inc.  As the storm passes along the East Coast, it is forecast to
bring heavy rains from  Maine  to North Carolina, according to the
U.S. Climate Prediction Center in  Camp Springs ,  Maryland .  If Irene stays out to sea on its current track, the coast
regions of the Middle Atlantic states will be on the weaker side
of the storm, Hyde said. However, because Irene is expected to
be a large, powerful storm at that point, there is a possibility
high winds may accompany rain.  Tracking Storms  Forecasts of where a storm may strike are often inaccurate.
The five-year average margin of error for predicting an event
four days away is 200 miles, and for a five-day forecast, it’s
250 miles, according to the NHC.  Since Irene became a named storm late last week, its
potential track has shifted slightly to the east every day. The
current track has the storm moving over Long Island and through
New England just west of  Boston , Hyde said. This is a change
from yesterday, when forecasters believed the storm would strike
near Cape May,  New Jersey .  Hyde said the more time that passes and the more
information forecasters can gather about the storm, the better
the accuracy of the track becomes. By the day after tomorrow,
forecasters should be able to say with 90 percent to 100 percent
certainty where Irene will strike, he said.  Total losses from Irene may reach $3.1 billion across the
Caribbean and along the U.S. coastline, according to estimates
from Kinetic Analysis Corp.  The last hurricane to strike the U.S. was Ike in 2008, a
Category 2 storm on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale when it
went ashore near Galveston,  Texas . The last major hurricane, one
with winds of at least 111 mph, was Wilma in 2005.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Conor Sullivan in  London  at 
 csullivan39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  