-- 
Sigma-Tau Said to Study a Possible Sale of Stake  After Founder’s Death

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-08-24T13:48:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/italian-drugmaker-sigma-tau-said-to-study-options-after-death-of-founder.html
Sigma-Tau SpA , the Italian drugmaker
that’s developing rare-disease medicines, is considering selling
a stake in the company after the death of founder Claudio Cavazza, said two people with knowledge of the situation.  The closely held company is being advised by Milan-based
 Four Partners , said the people, who declined to be identified
because the matter is private. While a sale of the entire
company hasn’t been ruled out, the Cavazza family is leaning
toward selling a stake in a deal that may value Sigma-Tau at
about 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion), they said.  Private-equity firms including Permira Advisers LLP and
 Ares Life Sciences  have shown interest, the people said. The
family hasn’t decided how big a stake to sell, they said.
Claudio Cavazza died in  Rome  on June 6, Sigma-Tau said in a
statement on its website.  Sigma-Tau may make a decision by the end of the year, said
one of the people. A spokesperson for Sigma Tau declined to
comment, as did a spokesman for Ares. Spokespeople for Permira
and Four Partners weren’t immediately available to comment.  Sigma-Tau, which was founded in 1957, employs more than
2,400 people and had sales of 673 million euros last year,
according to its website. The company has 10 drugs in
 development  for rare or neglected diseases. Last year Sigma-Tau
bought  Enzon Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ENZN) ’s specialty-drug unit for $300
million in cash.  The acquisition brought the company products including the
Oncaspar leukemia treatment; Adagen, a drug for severe combined
immunodeficiency disease; Abelcet, a fungal-infection medicine;
and DepoCyt, a lymphoma treatment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  