-- 
Greek Two-Year Yields Surge to More Than 44% to Deepening Bailout Concern

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-08-24T15:18:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/italian-notes-drop-before-10-5-billion-euros-of-auctions-greek-bonds-fall.html
Greek two-year notes slumped,
driving yields to a euro-era record, on concern the nation’s
second bailout will be delayed as its euro-region partners
squabble over a collateral deal.  Italian two-year notes fell before the nation sells 10.5
billion euros ($15.1 billion) of debt this week, even as the
 European Central Bank  bought the securities today. The ECB also
purchased Spanish debt, according to people familiar with the
transactions. Greek yields have surged since Finland said on
Aug. 16 it secured a collateral deal to ensure its contribution
would be repaid, garnering criticism from other euro-area
nations. German bonds fell as the nation sold 10-year debt.  “There are concerns that the second aid package won’t go
through,” said  Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-income strategy
at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “If Finland sticks to its word
and demands collateral, we will be in a gridlock situation.”  Greek two-year yields soared more than 4 percentage points
to a record 44.08 percent as of 3:58 p.m. in London. The 4.6
percent security due May 2013 fell 3.06, or 30.60 euros per
1,000-euro face amount, to 57.99.  Italy ’s two-year rates climbed four basis points to 3.39
percent, and the nation’s 10-year yields increased four basis
points to 5.04 percent.  Spain ’s 10-year yields were two basis
points higher at 5.01 percent.  ECB Buys  The ECB has bought government bonds in each of the past
three weeks in a bid to stave off contagion from  Greece , Ireland
and  Portugal  and bring 10-year yields from Spain and Italy below
5 percent. Yields of both nations’ debt had surged to euro-era
records at the start of this month.  ECB purchases of Spanish and Italian bonds were in small
volumes and included 10-year notes, according to three people
with knowledge of the transactions who declined to be identified
because the trades were confidential. An ECB spokeswoman
declined to comment.  Greek 10-year yields climbed as much as 64 basis points to
18.06 percent, the highest level since July 20.  Austria  and the Netherlands, which like  Finland  have AAA
credit ratings, called for similar collateral deals in return
for providing aid to Greece, as did Slovakia and Slovenia.  “The message sent by the calls for such agreements
confirms that  Europe  is conflicted over the very decision to
provide financial support to its members, not just the amount of
support,” Moody’s Investors Service said.  German Refusal  Germany  “in general” wouldn’t agree to separate
collateral agreements between euro member states that offer an
advantage to individual governments, spokesman Steffen Seibert
told reporters today. The details of Finland’s collateral
arrangement with Greece have yet to be approved by euro member
states, he said in Berlin.  “Ultimately we’re going to get some form of restructuring
coming through in Greece,” Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange
research in  London  for Societe Generale SA, said in a Bloomberg
Radio interview with  Tom Keene . “If you can’t even get an
agreement on the terms of the bailout between the Finns and the
Germans, then we’ll just reach restructuring of the debt.”  Pledges of 365 billion euros in official loans to Greece,
Portugal and Ireland, as well as at least 96 billion euros of
bond purchases by the ECB, have yet to fix the finances of those
countries or prevent speculative attacks on Spain and Italy.  Bunds Decline  German 10-year yields rose five basis points to 2.21
percent. They fell to a record low 2.03 percent on Aug. 18 as a
global rout in equities and signs the  U.S. economy  is faltering
sparked demand for the relative safety of government debt.  The nation sold 4.9 billion euros of 2.25 percent bunds
maturing in September 2021 at an average yield of 2.15 percent.  Investors bid for 1.44 times the amount on offer. That
compares with a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 1.16 at the
previous auction of similar-maturity debt auctioned on July 13,
which were sold at 2.70 percent.  Bunds slid even as a survey today showed German business
confidence fell to the lowest in more than a year.  The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 108.7
in August from 112.9 in July. That’s the lowest since June 2010.
Economists forecast a decline to 111, according to the median
prediction of 37 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  German  government bonds  have returned 5.7 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by the European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg, while Treasuries
have returned a gain of 7.4 percent. Greek bonds have lost 18
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net  