-- 
Liverpool Seeks Stars, Shirt Sales in India as Premier League Wins Support

-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-08-24T12:36:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/liverpool-seeks-stars-shirt-sales-in-india-as-premier-league-wins-support.html
Liverpool Football Club is building
training schools across  India , following arch-rival Manchester
United into the subcontinent and its growing soccer fan-base.  Liverpool, the 18-time English champion, will open five
soccer academies in India by 2012 and plans similar institutes
in  China , Steve McMahon, the former Liverpool midfield player
and chief coach for the project, told reporters in New Delhi
today. Manchester United, which has awarded rights to operate
club-themed bars in India, is said to be planning a $1 billion
share-sale in Singapore this year.  “Our supporters around the world are in the millions, but
it has been very difficult for them to get close to their team
so we’re bringing a bit of Liverpool to them,” said Ian Rush,
the club’s leading scorer of all time. “India is already famous
for cricket, maybe one day it will be famous for football.”  Liverpool may have some way to go to match the support in
 Asia  enjoyed by Manchester United, the most valuable soccer team
 in the world  according to Forbes Magazine, which estimates that
more than two-thirds of its fans live on the continent. India
will host reigning FIFA World Player of the Year Lionel Messi on
Sept. 2 when Argentina faces Venezuela in a friendly match at a
120,000-capacity stadium in Kolkata.  “It’s a business deal aimed at the middle class population
in India which is bigger than most European countries,” said
Novy Kapadia, an Indian soccer expert. “Their heroes play in
English teams, so the clubs are capitalizing on the craze.”  Dominant Force  Liverpool dominated European soccer for two decades,
winning 11 of its 18 English championships and  four of its five 
European Cups between 1972 and 1990, with players such as Rush,
Kenny Dalglish and John Barnes. The team logo bears the words
“You’ll Never Walk Alone,” and fans sing the Richard Rodgers
and Oscar Hammerstein song at every home match.  The team was bought by a group led by Boston-based investor
 John W. Henry , owner of the Red Sox baseball team, last October.
Its former U.S. owners  George Gillett  and  Tom Hicks  had failed
to repay bank debts linked to their 2007 purchase.  Liverpool already has a partnership with an academy in the
western India city of Pune. The club is further entrenching
itself in Asia after playing exhibition matches in China and
Malaysia in July, a year after  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , which
gets more than three-quarters of its profit from Asia, signed a
sponsorship deal with the club worth 81.5 million pounds ($134
million).  Merchandise Sales  “This is not about the money, this is about me giving
something back to the game,” said McMahon, who is partnering
with Liverpool and Indian real estate developer Carnoustie
Management Pvt. in creating the schools. “The English Premier
League should have been here a long time ago, we are here
finally walking the walk.”  Manchester United’s sponsorship deal, expected to be
finalized in September, with Malaysian snack maker  Mamee Double
Decker Bhd. (MAMEE)  will be the most recent signed with an Asian
company. Existing sponsors from Asia include India’s  Bharti
Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , South Korean tire-maker Kumho Tire Co. and Thai
beer brand Singha.  “It’s excellent for India’s young footballers and for
foreign clubs looking to tap our big population to sell the game
and their merchandise,” Chuni Goswami, who captained India’s
national team from 1962 to 1966, said by telephone from Kolkata.
“Football has been around for many years in India, but lacking
money and infrastructure to become big. Foreign clubs are now
realizing the potential.”  Cricket Rules  Cricket continues to rule in India. The  Indian Premier
League , its foremost cricket league, is valued at about $2
billion. Nearly 68 million people watched India, the host-nation
and champion of the 2011 cricket  World Cup , defeat  Sri Lanka  in
the tournament’s final on April 2, according to Audience
Measurement & Analytics. In contrast, the nation’s football
ranks  158 in the world , below Palestine and Madagascar.  “These could become exciting times for Indian football,”
Goswami said. “Now Indians can dream of rubbing shoulders with
the best in  Europe .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  