-- 
China Luxury Property Boom: Jade Sinks, $7,800

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-25T07:16:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/jade-sinks-7-800-taps-lure-china-s-millionaires-defying-curbs.html
In the Lakeville apartment complex
overlooking  Shanghai ’s downtown bar and shopping district, the
yellow jade bathroom sink alone would cost the average Chinese
worker three years’ pay.  The entire four-bedroom, ground-floor apartment with a
terrace, which sold in May for 60 million yuan ($9.4 million),
would take 3,140 years of toil. Such luxurious properties are in
demand for the swelling ranks of millionaires chasing status and
a hedge against soaring inflation even as the government steps
up curbs on real estate investment.  High-end home prices rose 17.4 percent in Beijing last
quarter from a year earlier, according to Savills Plc, which
assigns the category to properties costing 50,000 yuan or more
per square meter (10.8 square foot). Luxury prices in the
financial center of Shanghai jumped 5 percent.  “Luxury homes are still investment darlings of rich
people,” said Albert Lau, Shanghai-based head of Savills  China .
“They will still buy properties rather than sit there to see
their money losing value every day.”  China’s consumer price index rose to 6.5 percent in July,
the fastest pace in three years and almost double the one-year
deposit rate of 3.5 percent. With the benchmark  stock index 
losing 9 percent this year and limits on overseas investment,
China’s rich are still turning to property, defying a government
determined to cool the market.  Luxury home prices also have been rising in other parts of
the world. In central London, values of houses and apartments
costing an average of 3.7 million pounds ($6.1 million) rose 9.6
percent in the 12 months through July, the most in six months,
according to an index compiled by London-based real-estate
broker  Knight Frank  LLP.  Government Crackdown  Chinese authorities this year vowed to crack down on
“speculative capital” with measures including the introduction
of a property tax in Shanghai and Chongqing, higher down-payment
requirements and limiting the number of home purchases by each
family in metropolitan areas such as Shanghai and Beijing.  High-end property accounts for approximately 7 percent of
China’s overall residential market, according to Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc., which defines the category as above 40,000 yuan
per square meter. Just 1 percent of the residential market in
Beijing and Shanghai is priced above 64,000 yuan per square
meter, according to London-based Savills.  “Those rich people, if they want to buy, they always find
ways,” said Jenny Zhan, a senior associate director for
residential properties for eastern China at broker DTZ Holdings
Plc.  Tomson Riviera  The 34-member Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index
climbed 3.7 percent in Shanghai, the most in seven months.  China, with 1.3 billion people, has 960,000 individuals
with personal wealth of at least 10 million yuan each, a 9.7
percent increase from last year, Hurun Research Institute, a
Shanghai-based group that tracks the nation’s rich, said in an
April report.  Per-capita urban-household disposable income rose to 19,109
yuan last year, according to the nation’s statistics bureau.  The most expensive unit in the Lakeville building,
developed by  Hong Kong  billionaire Vincent Lo’s  Shui On Land
Ltd. (272) , may be the second priciest in per-square-meter terms in
Shanghai, behind Tomson Group’s  Tomson Riviera , where apartments
cost at least 160,000 yuan per square meter, according to
Chicago-based Jones Lang, the world’s second-largest commercial
brokerage. Nestled between office towers in the Pudong area,
Tomson’s four towers overlook the Huangpu River that snakes
through the city.  Italian Taps  The jade sink isn’t the only luxury feature of the 360
square meters (3,874 square feet) Lakeville apartment: It boasts
a 30,000 yuan toilet with buttons to adjust the water
temperature, 50,000 yuan designer Italian taps, and a mosaic
wall of red, blue and black tiles that cost 200,000 yuan.  It is one of the 18 units in four low-rise buildings at
Lakeville, developed around the city’s bar and shopping district
Xintiandi, which means New Heaven and Earth in Chinese. About 70
percent of the apartments, including a 110 million yuan
penthouse, have already sold after they went on sale at the end
of last year, said Shirley Tang, associate director of
residential sales with Savills, which is marketing the units.  About half of the buyers made the one-off payment in cash,
according to Tang. About half were Chinese, while the others
were foreigners or Chinese holding foreign passports, she said.  Shui On Land’s Chief Executive Officer Freddy Lee said he
is “satisfied” with sales at the company’s residential
projects, and doesn’t plan price cuts. “Demand is still
there.”  Longfor Properties  Longfor Properties Co., the developer controlled by China’s
richest woman Wu Yajun, unveiled 1,002 villas worth a combined 2
billion yuan in the eastern city of Yantai in July. They were
sold out within a week, the company said in an e-mailed
statement on Aug. 8. The company, which specializes in high-end
properties, said contracted sales rose 31.4 percent in July from
a year earlier to 2.6 billion yuan.  “People are betting that prices are still going to rise,”
said Larry Hu, a Shanghai-based director of the residential
department for Knight Frank. “China’s property measures - we
have heard a lot of thunder, but we have yet to see the rain.
Policy enforcement in many small cities isn’t that strict.”  Heritage Estate  China’s most expensive apartments per square meter were
being marketed at Beijing’s Heritage Estate, or Diaoyutai
Courtyard No. 7 in Chinese. The luxury units next to the
Diaoyutai State Guest house, built in the 1950s by Chairman  Mao
Zedong  to host foreign country leaders, were priced at more than
300,000 yuan per square meter. The city’s government halted
sales at the apartment complex in June and began an
investigation into the developer for possible “profiteering.”  Mass-market  home prices  in Beijing rose 0.1 percent last
month from June to 22,896 yuan per square meter, while those in
Shanghai climbed by 0.4 percent to 23,856 yuan per square meter,
according to SouFun Holdings Ltd., the country’s biggest real
estate website.  Home prices in Beijing and Shanghai stopped rising for the
first time this year, signaling measures to cool the  property
market  are beginning to work. New home prices in the nation’s
capital and financial center were unchanged last month from June,
while they fell in 14 of 70 cities monitored by the government,
the statistics bureau said on its website Aug. 18.  Pockets of Caution  Pockets of caution are emerging at some high-end projects.
Very few units were sold last month at Shanghai’s Meihua Garden,
a residential complex developed around Madame Chiang Kai-shek’s
former residence, according to DTZ. Three-bedroom, 250-square-
meter homes there cost 14 million yuan to 19 million yuan.  “Most buyers are waiting to see the direction of
government policies,” said DTZ’s Zhan.  That’s unlikely to lead to lower prices, said Liu Yuan, a
researcher at Centaline Property Agency Ltd., China’s biggest
property brokerage.  “People still have a lot of money; the only problem is
eligibility for purchase,” Liu said, referring to limits on the
number of homes being bought.  China’s luxury home price gains are trailing those in Hong
Kong and  London , according to Knight Frank. Hong Kong prices
rose 9.4 percent and London 7 percent in the six months to June,
compared with a 2.4 percent advance in Shanghai and 6.6 percent
in Beijing.  A one-bedroom duplex at One Hyde Park, the luxury-
condominium complex in London’s affluent Knightsbridge
neighborhood, sold for 9.85 million pounds in the second quarter,
according to the  Land Registry .  “In those super prime locations, China’s luxury home prices
are relatively inexpensive on a per-square-foot basis compared
to those in Hong Kong, London and  New York ,”  said  Michael Klibaner , head of China research at Jones Lang. “It’s still
quite reasonable.”  --Bonnie Cao. Editors:  Malcolm Scott , Andreea Papuc.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  