-- 
Japan Unveils $100B Effort to Cope With Yen

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-08-24T05:58:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/japan-s-government-unveils-100-billion-effort-to-cope-with-yen-s-strength.html
Japan  unveiled a $100 billion effort
to help companies cope with a surging yen, signaling that
officials may be resigned to the currency remaining high.  The government will release foreign-exchange reserves to
the Japan Bank for International Cooperation for funding to aid
exporters and spur purchases overseas, Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters in Tokyo today. JBIC, as the
lender is known, is a state-run export credit agency.  The yen traded at 76.64 per dollar as of 2:55 p.m. in
Tokyo, stronger than the level before officials last intervened
to weaken the currency on Aug. 4. The yen’s rise since the March
11 earthquake to post-World War II highs is sapping exporters’
profits and undermining the nation’s recovery after three
straight quarters of economic contraction.  “The government’s message may be that businesses need to
come up with their own ways to deal with the strengthening
currency, that they shouldn’t hold their breath for
intervention,” said Toshiya Yamauchi, a senior currency analyst
in  Tokyo  at Ueda Harlow Ltd. “But the reality is that the
demerits of a strong yen far outweigh the merits.”  The ministry will bolster monitoring of the currency
market, requiring major financial institutions to disclose
trading positions, Noda said. About 30 organizations will be
subject to the procedures, a ministry official told reporters in
Tokyo on condition of anonymity.  Foreign-Currency Reserves  Japan has amassed $1.07 trillion in foreign-exchange
reserves, the world’s largest after China. The yen touched a
postwar high of 75.95 per dollar on Aug. 19 in  New York .  The Bank of Japan applauded the Finance Ministry’s
announcement, saying in a statement that the measures would
“contribute to the stability” of  currency markets .  The one-year funding program through the export credit
agency is intended to encourage “the private sector to exchange
yen-denominated funds to foreign currencies by supporting
exports by small and mid-sized companies, securing energy
resources and helping Japanese companies to purchase foreign
businesses,” Noda said.  Today’s announcement is “somewhat underwhelming and
unlikely to have much impact” on the  exchange rate , said  Mitul Kotecha , head of global currency strategy in  Hong Kong  at Credit
Agricole CIB. The move seems “unlikely” to increase the
limited appetite that Japanese firms have for overseas
purchases, the analyst said.  Japan’s debt rating was lowered by Moody’s Investors
Service today, which cited “weak” prospects for economic
growth that will make it difficult for the government to rein in
the world’s largest public debt burden. The advancing yen is a
“headwind against export competitiveness,” Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  