-- 
Japan Triples Airborne Radiation Checks as ‘Hot Spots’ Spread

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-08-24T05:25:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/japan-triples-air-radiation-checks-for-hot-spots-.html
Japan will more than triple the
number of regions it checks for airborne radiation as more
contaminated “hot spots” are discovered far from  Tokyo 
Electric Power Co.’s crippled Fukushima nuclear power station.  The government said it will increase radiation monitoring
by helicopter to 22 prefectures from the six closest to the
plant, which began spewing radiation after an earthquake and
tsunami struck the station in March. The plan comes after
radioactive waste more than double the regulatory limit was
found 200 kilometers (125 miles) from the plant this week.  Authorities have refused to give a cumulative figure for
radiation released from the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear plant
after estimating in June that fallout in the six days following
the quake was equal to 15 percent of total radiation released in
the Chernobyl nuclear disaster in 1986. The authorities have
been too slow to widen airborne radiation testing, said Tetsuo Ito, the head of Kinki University’s Atomic Energy Research
Institute in  Osaka .  “The government should have expanded the monitoring area
by helicopters much earlier to ease concerns among the public,”
Ito said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Officials on Aug. 12 found compost in a kindergarten yard
in Tokamachi city, Niigata prefecture containing radioactive
cesium measuring 27,000 becquerels per kilogram, Kenichiro
Kasuga, an official at the city’s disaster prevention
department, said by phone.  Legal Limit  Under Japanese law, waste measuring over 8,000 becquerels
per kilogram must be treated as radioactive waste and can’t be
buried in a landfill.  City officials found sludge measuring 18,900 becquerels per
kilogram from radioactive cesium on the same day as part of
tests done at 60 educational and childcare facilities, Kasuga
said. The city government is storing the waste in drums until
the government sets final guidelines for its disposal, he said.  “We still don’t know why this level of cesium was found in
the compost,” Kasuga said.  The hotspots in Niigata were likely caused by wind blowing
northwest towards the prefecture in the days following the
Fukushima accident, Kinki University’s Ito said.  The government will begin monitoring radiation levels in 16
prefectures from Aomori, in the far north of the main island of
Honshu, to Aichi in central Japan 460 kilometers (290 miles)
from the plant by the end of October, the Ministry of Education,
Culture, Sports, Science and Technology said in a  statement  on
its website yesterday.  Monitoring Radioactivity  Radiation monitoring has taken place in four other
prefectures and in Gunma and the western part of Fukushima
prefecture, said Hirotaka Oku, a spokesman at the science and
technology ministry.  Checks in Ibaraki and Yamagata prefecture were completed in
August and the findings will be released soon, he said, without
specifying when.  The discovery of radiation at Niigata kindergartens
coincides with the start of the rice harvest in the prefecture
that was the country’s biggest producer last year with 7 percent
of the total. Radiation from Dai-Ichi has already been found in
food including beef, tea and spinach.  So far, early tests on rice haven’t detected radiation,
Shingo Gocho, assistant director in Niigata prefecture’s
agricultural division said by phone yesterday. The government is
taking samples from 45 areas in 29 villages, towns and cities
that make up the prefecture’s growing area, he said. The crops
won’t be shipped until the results are known, he said.  Food Checks  Japan ’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare plans to
conduct radiation checks in food produced in about 100 cities,
towns and villages in 14 prefectures because local governments
hadn’t tested produce by the end of July despite requests by the
central government, said an official at the ministry, who
declined to be identified, citing internal rules.  The central government will become move involved in testing
food to ease concerns among consumers and provide more data, the
official said. Radiation checks on produce including vegetables,
meat and eggs will be carried out at the National Institute of
Health Sciences and the findings will be released as soon as
possible, the official said.  Tokyo Electric’s Dai-Ichi plant released about 770,000 tera
becquerels of radioactive materials between March 11 and March
16, Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said on June 6.  Japan’s government is under-reporting the amount of
airborne radiation across the country, said Tom Gill, an
anthropology professor at Meiji Gakuin University in Tokyo,
citing his studies in Fukushima prefecture since March.  Higher Radiation  The “maximum” radiation level given for Fukushima
prefecture on Aug. 13 was 2.64 microsieverts per hour in the
village of Iitate 40 kilometers northwest of the Dai-Ichi plant,
Gill said, according to figures from the Science Ministry
published daily in national newspapers.  That compares with the official reading in the village
itself the next day of 14.2 microsieverts per hour, he said,
showing a picture he took of the reading on that day. He was
speaking at a presentation in Yokohama near Tokyo on Aug. 19.  The government excludes the highest readings among 20
measuring stations in the village from the data it collates for
publication, Gill said.  “Distrust and cynicism of central government is pretty
much universal across Fukushima now,” he said.  Medical tests on children living in three towns near the
plant between March 24 and 30 found 45 percent of those surveyed
suffered low-level thyroid  radiation exposure , Japan’s
government said earlier this month.  Thyroid Cancer  Children are more susceptible to poisoning from radioactive
iodine, which can accumulate in the thyroid and cause cancer,
according to the  World Health Organization . None of the
children’s thyroid glands exceeded the safety threshold of 0.2
microsievert per hour set by the Nuclear Safety Commission of
Japan, the government said at the time.  The Fukushima disaster is the worst since a reactor
exploded at Chernobyl in the former  Soviet Union  25 years ago.
About 2 million people in Ukraine are still under permanent
medical monitoring, according to the nation’s embassy in Tokyo.  A becquerel represents one radioactive decay per second,
which involves the release of atomic energy that can damage
human cells and DNA, with prolonged exposure causing leukemia
and other forms of cancer, the  World Nuclear Association  says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  