-- 
Japan Stocks Fall Amid Investor Concern Fed Can’t Boost Economy

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-08-24T07:34:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/japanese-stocks-fall-amid-weaker-u-s-data-before-jackson-hole-meeting.html
Japanese stocks fell ahead of a
meeting of central bankers this week as investors questioned
whether any stimulus announced by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  would be enough to prop up a weakening U.S. economy.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker, dropped
1.6 percent. Sony Corp.,  Japan ’s No. 1 exporter of consumer
electronics, slid 2.9 percent.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306)  led banking shares lower after Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded the debt ratings of Japan’s biggest lenders. Moody’s
also lowered its rating on Japanese sovereign debt.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped 1.1 percent to
8,639.61 at the 3 p.m. close of trading in Tokyo after weaker
weaker-than-estimated U.S. economic data eroded investor
confidence ahead of a meeting this week in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , where Bernanke is expected to signal new stimulus.  “Stocks have risen on expectations of Fed action, but it’s
not as though there’s been an improvement in the fundamentals,”
said Toshiaki Iwasaki, an analyst at Mito Securities Co.
“People are covering shorts but beyond that there’s not much
buying because there’s so much uncertainty about the global
economic outlook.”  Japanese shares extended declines in afternoon trading
after measures announced by Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  to
protect Japanese exporters failed to weaken the yen. The Topix
index dropped 1.1 percent to 742.24.  ‘Treating The Symptoms’  The yen appreciated to as much as 76.54 per dollar, higher
than before Noda unveiled a $100 billion plan to help buffer
companies from persistent strength in the currency, which erodes
the value of overseas earnings. The one-year funding program
will be used to aid small exporters, promote mergers and
acquisitions, and secure resources, Noda said.  “The medicine is only treating the symptoms. There’s no
deeper solution being offered,” said Norihiko Funatsu, chief
strategist at Okasan Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “In addition,
they’ve used one more card and pretty soon they’re going to run
out of ammunition.”  Stocks fell after U.S. data yesterday added to evidence the
world’s biggest economy is slowing. Sales of new U.S. homes fell
to the lowest level in five months, signaling a slump in the
housing industry that triggered the U.S. recession has yet to
end. A separate survey by the Richmond Fed showed business
activity in some southern states dropped to its lowest level
since June 2009.  Fed Stimulus?  Investors said signs the U.S. recovery is weakening will
put pressure on Bernanke to offer new stimulus measures when he
speaks at a meeting of central bankers on Aug. 26. Bernanke
triggered a 28 percent rally in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
last year at the same conference when he signaled the Fed would
buy more bonds to prop up the economy.  While the Fed policy of asset purchases -- known as
quantitative easing -- is aimed at spurring demand, it also
undermines the dollar. The U.S. currency has weakened about 10
percent against the yen since Aug. 26, 2010 when Bernanke hinted
he would flood the world’s largest economy with liquidity. Three
rounds of yen sales by the Japanese government in the last year
have failed to stem the currency’s rise to a post-World War II
record.  Toyota, which started production of a new Camry model
yesterday at a factory in  Kentucky , dropped 1.6 percent to 2,718
yen.  Sony Corp. (6758) , which gets a fifth of its sales in the U.S.,
slid 2.9 percent to 1,549 yen.  ‘Tough Times Ahead’  “Exporters are looking at tough times ahead with this
 exchange rate ,” said  Tomomi Yamashita , a  fund manager  in Tokyo
at Shinkin Asset Management Co., which oversees $6 billion.
“We’re probably going to see some downward revisions to
earnings forecasts and share prices could drop further.”  Japanese banks declined after Moody’s cut their credit
ratings on concern that weaker public finances will hamper the
government’s ability to support lenders in times of crisis.
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group fell 2.9 percent to 333 yen.
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , the country’s second-
biggest lender, slid 1.8 percent to 2,170 yen.  The downgrade followed Moody’s cut of Japan’s sovereign
debt rating. The ratings service said “weak” prospects for
economic growth will make it difficult for the government to
rein in the world’s largest public debt. Moody’s cut the grade
one step to Aa3, with a stable outlook, it said in a statement
today.  Energy-related stocks advanced after the price of crude oil
increased amid declining fuel supplies.  Inpex Corp. (1605) , Japan’s
biggest oil driller, rose 1.2 percent to 475,000 yen, while
smaller Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. gained 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 