-- 
Loved-Up Jude Law, Carnival Fever, Dance Party: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-08-24T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/jude-law-strips-carnival-party-fever-michelangelo-gapers-london-weekend.html
Jude Law never looked scruffier.  In “Anna Christie” at  London ’s Donmar Warehouse, Law
plays a shipwrecked Irish stoker who appears, dripping and
shirtless, on a coal barge. He grows close to the skipper’s
daughter, who isn’t quite as virtuous as he’d like.  With a beard as thick as his Irish accent, Law puts on a
strong performance, and helps make up for the play’s longueurs:
Penned by Eugene O’Neill in 1921, it lasts two and a half hours
(including the interval).  “Anna Christie” is at the Donmar Warehouse, 41 Earlham
Street, London WC2H 9LX. Information:
 http://www.donmarwarehouse.com  or +44-844-871-7624.  Saturday  What if you were Michelangelo’s David and could actually
see the tourists gaping at you all day?  Photographer Thomas Struth has assumed that vantage point,
and aimed his camera at the visitors. His clear, wall-sized
images of their awestruck faces -- now on show at the
Whitechapel Gallery -- make you wonder if art hasn’t replaced
religion.  Also worth seeing are Struth’s lush forest views, and his
portraits of extended families from around the world, where,
even in a crowded group pose, the males quietly exude dominance.  The show ends Sept. 16 at the Whitechapel Gallery, 77-82
Whitechapel High Street, London E1 7QX. Information:
 http://www.whitechapelgallery.org  or +44-20-7522-7888.  Saturday Night  London’s summer festival season comes to a dance-party
conclusion on Clapham Common this weekend. The two-day South
West Four Weekender event features  Underworld’s  aggressive post-
techno beats on Saturday.  Australia ’s Pendulum headlines on
Sunday, with its drum-and-bass heavy hits such as “Propane
Nightmares.”  Information:  http://southwestfour.com . Some tickets still
available though selling fast.  If you attend South West Four, you only need to walk to the
northern end of Clapham Common to eat at Trinity restaurant --
which, incidentally, is worth crossing London to eat at. Chef
Adam Byatt is known for his great cooking and low prices. Sunday
lunch is 30 pounds ($50) for three courses. It’s wise to book
early. Information:
 http://www.trinityrestaurant.co.uk/  or +44-20-7622-1199.  Sunday  Caribbean belles in boas and sequined brassieres will float
through west London starting Sunday.  The two-day  Notting Hill Carnival  will give as many as a
million visitors the chance to eat, drink, and watch masquerade
bands with names like “People of Paradise” and “Pioneers and
Their Offspring.”  A record police presence -- at least twice as many officers
as were deployed for the royal wedding -- will aim to stop any
of the revelers from staging a repeat of the recent loot-and-
scoot London riots.  Information:  http://www.nottinghill-carnival.co.uk  or
+44-20-7727-0072.  The best place to eat at the carnival is on the street,
where the Caribbean food is hot and inexpensive. If you want to
escape from the hubbub, you might try Lucky Seven, an American
diner that will be serving a limited menu. Information:
 http://www.lucky7london.co.uk/  or +44-20-7727-6771. Many other
restaurants in the area will be closed.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts & leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 