-- 
Kasich Tries to Calm Ohio Unions Pushing Vote on Bargaining Law

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-08-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/kasich-tries-to-calm-ohio-unions-pushing-vote-on-bargaining-law.html
Since Ohio Governor  John Kasich 
signed a law restricting government unions similar to one backed
by Wisconsin’s  Scott Walker , he has spent months trying to avoid
a divisive referendum on the measure, using private talks and
public pressure.  After Walker braved a Capitol occupation and residents
began trying to recall his legislative allies, Kasich supported
private discussions with labor leaders in June, said Curt 
Steiner, a Republican consultant who hosted the talks at his 
Columbus office. When those proved fruitless, Kasich held news 
conferences last week urging opponents to consider a compromise
taking the issue off the Nov. 8 ballot.  Walker and Kasich said after taking office in January that
stopping collective bargaining was key to mending state and
local budgets. Other governors won concessions without attacking
that right, including Republican  Chris Christie  in  New Jersey ,
who raised worker health-care contributions through legislation
in June, and Democrat Dannel P. Malloy in  Connecticut , who
reached a deal with employees last week. Now, a parley with Ohio
unions can avert a “toxic” ballot fight over the law, Steiner
said.  “A lot of folks who support Senate Bill 5 would still
prefer to see a resolution that would prevent this missile
firing that’s going to occur in September and October,
potentially doing a lot of collateral damage no matter who wins
on Election Day,” Steiner said in a telephone interview.  Kill the Bill  We Are Ohio , a coalition of labor officials and Democrats
has rejected Kasich’s offers. The group said Kasich and the
Republican-controlled Legislature must first repeal the law.  The measure, which lets 360,000 public employees negotiate
only for wages, hours and work conditions and sets minimums for
pension and health-care contributions, is on hold after We Are
Ohio submitted 915,456 signatures to put it to a vote.  Kasich, 59, called for a meeting last Friday with union
leaders and sat with Republican House Speaker William G. Batchelder and Senate President Thomas Niehaus across from a
table with six placards in front of empty chairs. The governor
alternated between criticizing the unions for not negotiating
and saying he still thinks there is time to work out a deal.  “If somebody wants to sneak in in the dead of night, or if
they want to just give me a phone call or if they want to start
talking, we’re open to it,” Kasich told reporters. The deadline
to remove the issue from the ballot is Aug. 29, according to the
Ohio secretary of state’s office.  Doomed to Fail  The Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee issued a
statement saying Kasich’s offer shows he knows the law “is on
its way to being torpedoed.”  The news conference with the empty table was an effort to
paint unions as intransigent, said Dale Butland, a Columbus
Democratic strategist and Ohio chief of staff to former U.S.
Senator John Glenn.  “This is merely an attempt to gain a visual, as they say
in the business, that they could put on the air in a television
ad,” Butland said in a telephone interview. “Where was the
call for compromise when they were jamming this through the
Legislature?”  Kasich has more at risk than Walker did with the  Wisconsin 
recalls because the Ohio referendum puts Kasich’s agenda,
leadership and re-election in 2014 on the line, said  Robert
Bruno , a labor professor at the University of  Illinois .  “It’s much more a vote about him and about the future of
the party,” Bruno said in a telephone interview. “He sees his
political butt in the fire, and he’s looking for a way out.”  Political Necessity  Changes in worker benefits are needed because states can no
longer afford them, said James Sherk, a labor analyst with the
 Heritage Foundation  in  Washington , which advocates free-market
approaches. Walker didn’t face a referendum on the Wisconsin law
because there isn’t a provision for it, and Kasich is being
practical, he said.  “If there wasn’t a referendum, Kasich wouldn’t be making
the offer,” Sherk said in a telephone interview. “But he’d
rather take half of a loaf than roll the dice and maybe get the
whole loaf, maybe get nothing.”  Kasich has said that while he would like to avoid an ugly
campaign, the law will help local governments control costs and
that its supporters will prevail after voters understand all of
its provisions.  A  Quinnipiac University  poll released July 20 showed that
56 percent of Ohio voters would repeal the law, compared with 32
percent who would keep it. The  poll  also showed that most voters
support the law’s provisions involving employee-benefit
contributions, and Kasich has been emphasizing those aspects.  Bad Blood  There is a risk that opponents might lose the referendum or
that the Republican lawmakers could come back after the law is
repealed and re-enact portions of it, said  Paul Beck , a
political-science professor at  Ohio State University .  Still, “a very toxic political climate” makes a
settlement difficult, and any campaign would be “nasty,” he
said.  We Are Ohio filed a campaign finance report July 29 showing
$4.97 million in contributions plus $1.98 million of in-kind
contributions.  Building a Better Ohio , the group supporting the
law, has not yet disclosed its campaign activity.  Wisconsin faced six months of political battles after the
union law was passed there in March amid days of protests at the
state Capitol. Opponents sought the recall of six Republican
state senators to give Democrats control of the chamber and
failed, though two Republican senators were recalled in
campaigns that drew national attention and a projected $40
million in spending.  The aggregate vote in the nine recall elections was 50.7
percent Democrat, 49.3 percent Republican, close enough that the
outcome could have gone either way, said  Charles Franklin , a
political scientist at the  University of Wisconsin-Madison .  “There is a good lesson along these lines that when you
deal with this policy issue of union representation, you are
lighting the fuse on political dynamite and neither side can be
completely confident about what that effect is,” Franklin said
in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  