-- 
Kenyan President Kibaki Names Margaret Kamar as Higher Education Minister

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-24T14:03:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/kenyan-president-kibaki-names-margaret-kamar-as-higher-education-minister.html
Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki removed
 William Ruto , who the  International Criminal Court  has said is
responsible for crimes against humanity, while retaining another
suspect, Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta .  Kibaki replaced Ruto as higher education minister with
Margaret Kamar. Foreign Minister Moses Wetangula, who left his
post in October pending a parliamentary probe into alleged
corruption, was reinstated, the president’s office in Nairobi
said today in a statement. Wetangula has denied any misconduct.  Ruto and Kenyatta are among six Kenyans the ICC has said
were responsible for murder and forced displacement during
clashes after a disputed December 2007 election that killed
1,500 people. The suspects, who reject the court’s allegations,
are due to appear before The Hague-based tribunal next month.  The Cabinet changes are “motivated by leaders who want to
make political accommodations for their election agendas,” Paul Muite, a lawyer and former member of parliament, said today in a
phone interview from Nairobi. “What Kenyans are concerned with
is death and hunger and the rising cost of living, so they want
to see a Cabinet reduction.”  Kenya  is scheduled to hold general elections next year or
in 2013.  Kibaki consulted with Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  on the
Cabinet changes, according to the statement. Among other Cabinet
appointments were Musa Sirma, who took over as minister of  East
African Community  from Hellen Sambili.  A constitution enacted last year requires Kenya to cap the
number of positions in the Cabinet at 25, including the
president, vice president and attorney general. The rule is due
to take effect after the next election.  Kibaki yesterday nominated three candidates to key
government posts, including Githu Muigai as attorney general,
replacing Amos Wako, who has held the position for 20 years.
Lawmakers must approve the appointments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 