-- 
Kenya’s Bourse Expects to Start Stock, Bond Indexes Next Month, Ouma Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-24T12:35:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/kenya-s-bourse-expects-to-start-stock-bond-indexes-next-month-ouma-says.html
The  Nairobi Stock Exchange  expects
to introduce more stock and bond indexes next month to boost the
appeal of Kenyan securities to foreign investors, said Donald
Ouma, head of market and product development.  The exchange is completing preparations in partnership with
a “global index provider” that will help promote the product
outside  Kenya , Ouma said in an interview in Nairobi, the
capital, today. Ouma said he couldn’t name the company, at its
request, until plans for the indexes have been completed.  The exchange operator in  East Africa ’s biggest economy
signed an agreement with FTSE International Ltd. that may lead
to the creation of exchange-traded funds and other index-based
products, the Nairobi-based  Business Daily  said on May 3, citing
product development manager Terrence Adembesa. A spokesman for
FTSE International wasn’t immediately able to comment.  “For the NSE, we want to use the networks and capacity of
our partner to attract more global institutional investors,”
Ouma said. “It’s like any brand: some people will only buy
Mercedes and by going with a global provider we get that
brand.”  The Nairobi Stock Exchange All-Share Index has declined 21
percent in local-currency terms this year, paring 2010’s 36
percent increase. Inflation at more than triple the central
bank’s target has driven investors to protect capital through
buying  government bonds , with yields at a nine-year high. The
shilling sunk to a record low to the dollar this month as the
country was forced to raise food imports amid drought.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 