-- 
Kill Business Profit Tax; Dock Investors Instead: Jonathan Berk

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B e r k
-- 
2011-08-24T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/kill-business-profit-tax-dock-investors-instead-jonathan-berk.html
The corporate income tax, part of
the U.S.  tax code  since 1909, is a failure on all counts. It
isn’t raising much money. It isn’t creating socially desirable
incentives, and it isn’t immune from manipulation. We should get
rid of it in favor of more efficient levies on capital.  There are two commonly held myths about corporate
taxes. First, that they bring in a lot of money. They don’t.
Last year, only 8.9 percent of  government revenue  came from such
sources. Second, that companies pay the tax. They don’t; only
people pay taxes. The corporate tax is extracted from persons
associated with a business: investors, employees and customers.
Government revenue from these people has been  dropping  steadily
since the peak of almost 30 percent in the 1950s.  One reason why the corporate contribution is low is the tax
break for debt. Companies’ payments to debt holders are
deductible, while dividends for equity holders aren’t. This
imbalance was written into law a century ago, when corporate-tax
rates were so low that the disparity didn’t seem to matter. As
those levies have climbed, corporations have become eager to
take on leverage and thus lower their payments to the  Internal
Revenue Service .  We witnessed the consequences of this policy in 2008.
Corporations, especially banks, opted to issue too much debt,
ultimately imposing huge costs on society. One might argue that
the leverage subsidy could be better eliminated by simply
removing the exemption for debt payments. But that solution is
unlikely to succeed, given corporations’ immense lobbying power
in  Washington .  Creating Loopholes  This brings up a second reason to eliminate the tax. For
individuals acting alone, it is effectively impossible to bend
the tax code to our will. We can’t afford to hire lobbyists to
argue for tailored exemptions for us. We aren’t likely to
channel campaign contributions to politicians who can create
loopholes just for us, or to ask top accounting firms to
reinterpret the tax code to our advantage.  Such ploys are so expensive that it’s cheaper to pay what
is due. But if we were taxed as a group, the equation would
change. Then we could share tax avoidance costs. If the group
were large enough, it would become beneficial for us to engage
in tax avoidance.  From a tax perspective, a corporation is a large collection
of individuals sharing the costs of avoidance.  General Electric
Co. (GE) , for example, posted $14.2 billion in profits last year but
reported paying only $1.1 billion in taxes, an average rate of
just 7.4 percent. Corporations strive mightily to pay much less
than the statutory 35 percent  tax rate  on their profits -- a
socially wasteful activity.  Meanwhile, the corporate tax’s mischief keeps increasing.
Because the levy distorts corporate incentives, it imposes a
significant indirect burden on individuals. Workers bear large
costs because, by subsidizing leverage, more firms go bankrupt,
thereby undermining  job security . The rest of us are forced to
pay when these over-leveraged firms are deemed too big to fail
and must be funded by large government bailouts.  Most importantly, our political process is compromised by
the  tax-avoidance  strategies that corporations adopt. It is hard
to understand why we, as a society, are prepared to incur these
additional costs for a tax that raises less than 9 percent of
government revenue. Surely we are better off eliminating the tax
altogether and replacing it with a direct one on individuals.  Taxing Dividends  The obvious alternative would be additional taxes on
investment income.  Dividends could be taxed at regular rates
for individuals, rather than the current 15 percent, which is
low by historical standards. The capital-gains rate could be
increased, too, from its current maximum of 15 percent on long-
term profits.  Greater reliance on investor taxes would be simpler, more
equitable, more efficient and more easily enforced. These
changes could be implemented without adding to the true load
that investors already shoulder. If investors are currently
paying most of the corporate tax anyway, increased investment
taxes merely offset what was previously paid as corporate taxes.  For society as a whole, efficiency gains would arise as
corporations shake free of perverse incentives to spend time and
money on tax avoidance. Managerial talent could be redeployed
more productively. GE’s shareholders would no longer need to
finance the world’s best tax-law firm. Businesses could
concentrate on product innovation and profit expansion, creating
more lasting value.  (Jonathan Berk is the A.P. Giannini professor of finance in
the Graduate School of Business at  Stanford University .)  To contact the writer of this article: Jonathan Berk at
 berk@gsb.stanford.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
George Anders at   ganders1@bloomberg.net  