-- 
Kuwait Plans to Build $6.2 Billion Highways Over 3-1/2 Years

-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 
2011-08-24T12:59:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/kuwait-plans-to-build-6-2-billion-highways-over-3-1-2-years-1-.html
Kuwait  plans to build highways
costing about 1.7 billion dinars ($6.2 billion) over the next
three and a half years as it seeks to become a commercial and
financial hub in the region.  “Ministry of Public Works is currently designing highways
that will be tendered in the coming three and a half years, one
after the other, for a cost of 1.7 billion dinars and a total
length of 550 kilometres (340 miles),” Minister of Public Works
Fadhel Safar said in a telephone interview today in  Kuwait City .  Parliament in February 2010 approved a 30.8 billion-dinar,
four-year development plan that aims to lure international
investors and includes projects to increase oil and gas
production and construction of a railway network, cities and a
port on Boubyan Island.  In October last year, the state’s Central Tenders Committee
said a group led by Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. made
the lowest bid to design, build, operate and maintain a bridge
for 738.8 million dinars ($2.6 billion).  Jaber Al-Ahmad bridge, one of the country’s biggest
infrastructure projects, will link the mainland to Subbiya in
the north. The contract then got “dragged into political
conflicts” Vice Chairman Raad al-Abdullah of  Combined Group
Contracting Co. (CGC) , which has a stake 20 percent stake in the bid,
said on June 9.  The economy of Kuwait, which holds the world’s fifth-
largest oil reserves, suffers from a “number of structural
imbalances” that require the “correction” of the state’s
budget position and measures to promote the private sector’s
contribution to growth, the state’s ruler Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah said on Aug. 15, according to state run news
agency  KUNA .  Kuwait was the fourth-biggest producer, along with the
 United Arab Emirates , in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries in July. The country produced 2.52 million barrels of
oil a day on average, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  