-- 
NBA Lockout Seen Costing $1 Billion as Darkened Arenas Become Black Holes

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/nba-lockout-may-cost-1-billion-in-tickets-as-arenas-sit-dark.html
National Basketball Association
arena operators would miss out on more than $1 billion in ticket
revenue if a labor shutdown wipes out the 2011-12 season,
probably leaving their buildings dark those nights.  “Most all the dates would go unfilled,” former Portland
Trail Blazers President Steve Patterson wrote in an e-mail.  The NBA’s 30 teams generated more than $1.1 billion in gate
receipts during the 2010-11 campaign, according to the annual
postseason audit conducted by the league and the players’ union.
That probably would rise due to customary ticket-price increases
if players and owners reach a labor agreement in time to prevent
lost games this season. The  New York Knicks , for example, said
in March they were raising prices by an average of 49 percent
amid an $850 million renovation of Madison Square Garden.  The NBA locked out players on July 1, saying the league’s
financial system needs to be overhauled to stem $300 million in
annual losses. Management and labor disagree on how to share
more than $4 billion in annual revenue, and when  union  Executive
Director  Billy Hunter  was asked whether the season would take
place, he answered, “If I had to bet on it, no.”  Stuck in the middle are arena operators who have blacked-
out exhibition, regular-season and playoff dates for their NBA
tenants. Because securing big-name talent like Lady Gaga and
Jay-Z requires so much lead time, it would be “impossible” to
replace each team’s 40-plus basketball dates with other events,
said John Wentzell, president of TD Garden in  Boston , home of
basketball’s Celtics and hockey’s Bruins, who own the building.  ‘A Painful Hit’  “As much as we would like to have the ability to repurpose
those dates, it’s just impossible,” Wentzell said in a
telephone interview. “I don’t think anyone would attempt to
spin this -- that it’s not a painful hit to their business.”  NBA employees, under the threat of a fine, have been
instructed by Commissioner  David Stern  not to discuss matters
that pertain to the labor contract. Since the Bruins own TD
Garden, Wentzell is not bound by the commissioner’s edict.  Wentzell declined to offer a dollar figure on losses. In
addition to the empty dates, dark buildings strain an arena
manager’s relationships with advertisers, sponsors and suite
holders.  “Very painful,” he said.  $1 Million a Night  Bob Gutkowski, former president at  Madison Square Garden
Inc. (MSG) , home of the Knicks and Rangers, said the basketball team
generates at least $1 million in ticket revenue per game. That’s
about $45 million over the course of a season for the Knicks,
excluding playoff games and the team’s effect on MSG Network
advertising.  “Every night there is a good amount of revenue that isn’t
going to come through,” Gutkowski, a partner in the New York-
based sports consulting firm Innovative Strategic Management,
said in an interview. “And most of it isn’t going to be
replaced.”  Stacey Escudero, a spokeswoman for MSG, declined to comment.
MSG split from Cablevision Systems Corp. in 2010;  James Dolan  is
chairman, as well as president and chief executive officer of
Cablevision.  According to a 2009 arena  bond prospectus  by the NBA’s Nets,
who are tenants at  Newark ,  New Jersey ’s Prudential Center until
the Barclays Center in  Brooklyn  is ready in 2012, the average
arena hosts 161 events a year, about 25 percent of them NBA
games.  For some, like Miami’s AmericanAirlines Arena, home of the
Heat; Conseco Fieldhouse, home of the  Indiana Pacers ; and
FedExForum, where the Memphis Grizzlies play, NBA games
accounted for at least 43 percent of the year’s events.  ‘Very Damaging’  “They’re losing up to half of all revenue that comes to
them over the course of a year,” said Rob Tilliss, founder of
Inner Circle Sports, a New York-based advisory firm that
represented Apollo Global Management LLC co-founder Josh Harris
in his purchase of the  Philadelphia 76ers . “It’s very
damaging.”  The NBA last locked out its players in 1998, when games
that count were lost for the first time. The result was a 50-
game season, down from the usual 82.  Richard Krezwick, general manager of the Prudential Center,
said there is nothing he can do.  “We unfortunately have 44 dates in our calendar that are
at significant risk right now, but we can’t touch them,” the
52-year-old Krezwick said, declining to quantify projected
losses. “You try to play out every scenario, but there really
is no solution.”  Krezwick said Prudential Center officials addressed a
possible lockout in the lease with the Nets, although the
basketball team that is owned by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov 
doesn’t face penalties for the landlord’s lost revenue. “So the
facility is at risk,” Krezwick said.  Double-Date  If Krezwick has, as he said, a date problem, the Anschutz
Entertainment Group-owned Staples Center in  Los Angeles  has a
double-date problem. It’s the only arena that houses two NBA
teams: the Lakers and Clippers. Of the arena’s 246 events in
2009, 101, or 43 percent, were NBA games, according to the bond
prospectus. The Lakers, Tilliss said, generate about $2 million
a game in ticket revenue.  AEG spokesman  Michael Roth  didn’t immediately comment.  “The worst scenario for arena operators,” Tilliss said,
“is to have their building dark.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  