-- 
New World’s Second-Quarter Profit Falls to 84 Million Euros

-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 
2011-08-24T08:26:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/new-world-resources-posts-second-quarter-net-of-eu-84-million.html
New World Resources Plc, a central
European coal-mining company, said second-quarter profit fell 35
percent after a one-time gain from the sale of an energy unit
last year wasn’t repeated.  Net income dropped to 84 million euros ($121 million) from 
129.6 million euros a year earlier, the London-registered 
company said today. That beat an average analyst estimate of 
80.9 million euros. Sales rose 17 percent to 455 million euros.  NWR remains “very bullish about the region,” Chairman
Mike Salamon said in a telephone interview. Demand is “very
robust and we see no consequences to date of any slowdown.” 
Capacity utilization in central  Europe ’s steel industry was 
higher in July than a year earlier, he said.  The company produces thermal coal and coking, or
steelmaking, coal at its four mines and two coking facilities in
the  Czech Republic . Its customers include the Czech unit of
ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker.  NWR rose 10 pence, or 1.8 percent, to 560 pence as of
8:18 a.m. in  London .  “This is good set of results, slightly ahead of market
expectations,”  Josef Nemy , an analyst at Komercni Banka AS,
said by phone today. “Positive  market sentiment  on European
markets is also pushing the stock up.” Nemy is reviewing a
“hold” recommendation on the shares.  ‘Cautious’ on Outlook  NWR said in a statement that it’s “cautious” on the
short-term outlook, given recent market turmoil and the
macroeconomic environment. There may be “near-term volatility 
in prices and 2012 volumes,” it said.  The company said it aims to increase production and sales
of coking coal next year, after total coal output rose 7 
percent in the first half from a year earlier. About 52 percent
of external sales this year will be thermal coal and 44 percent
will be coking coal, it said.  NWR confirmed its production target of 11 million tons for
this year and expects external sales of 10.3 million tons.  The board approved development of NWR’s Debiensko mine in
 Poland , with deposits of 190 million tons of hard coking coal.
The company expects to invest 20 million euros there this year,
it said today.  NWR plans to pay an interim dividend of 0.16 euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in  Prague  at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  