-- 
News Corp. Wasn’t Told by Police to Redact Goodman Job ‘Promise’ in Letter

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-24T15:23:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/news-corp-wasn-t-told-by-police-to-redact-goodman-job-promise-in-letter.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s British unit wasn’t
under specific police orders to remove potentially incriminating
portions of a fired reporter’s letter to human resources before
giving it to U.K. lawmakers probing phone hacking.  When News International filed the March 2007 letter from
 Clive Goodman , the only journalist jailed for phone hacking, it
deleted his claim that then-editor  Andy Coulson  had promised to
give him his job back when he got out of prison -- if he didn’t
implicate the company.  Harbottle & Lewis LLP , the company’s
former law firm, gave lawmakers the same letter last week
without removing the section.  While News International’s current law firm Linklaters LLP
told lawmakers in a letter that the redaction was made with
police direction, the Metropolitan Police said in a statement
yesterday that their “general guidance” was “not prescriptive
in relation to the redactions.”  News Corp., facing three police investigations in addition
to a Parliamentary probe, shut the News of the World tabloid and
scrapped its bid for the rest of  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY)  after a report that its journalists had deleted voice mails
from a murdered schoolgirl’s phone. Fourteen people have been
arrested since January, including Coulson and another former
editor, Rebekah Brooks.  ‘Highly Relevant’  “The fact they redacted the alleged promise of the job
back in return for not ratting out News Group is highly
relevant,” said  John Kelly , the lawyer with Schillings whose
client, comedian  Steve Coogan , has sued the company over phone
hacking. “We find it extraordinary.”  News International spokeswoman Daisy Dunlop and Linklaters
spokesman Rupert Winlaw declined to comment.  The Goodman letter, which he wrote to human resources
director Daniel Cloke after being fired, was given to lawmakers
along with other witness statements after two former executives
and Harbottle & Lewis questioned testimony given to the
committee last month by News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  and
his son James. Cloke has since left the company.  Police received an unredacted version of the letter from
News International, including the names of other reporters who
allegedly hacked phones. Both Linklaters and Harbottle & Lewis
blacked out the reporters’ names.  News Corp. E-Mails  Harbottle & Lewis’s filing with lawmakers also suggested
New York-based News Corp. didn’t keep e-mails that had been
scrutinized during its internal investigation in 2007 -- a probe
that related to Goodman’s unfair dismissal claim.  The e-mails, between Goodman and various executives, were
printed by Harbottle & Lewis in 2007 and archived after the firm
determined News International executives weren’t aware of
Goodman’s hacking. When the file was re-opened this year, they
were deemed to be the only remaining copies, the London-based
 law firm  said in its letter to lawmakers.  “It seems that the firm’s copies of these documents from
News International’s own records are now the only remaining
copies (on paper or otherwise) still in existence,” the law
firm said in written testimony to the Culture, Media and Sport
Committee, which is investigating the hacking.  The archived e-mails weren’t retrieved from an off-site
facility until another News International law firm, London-based
 BCL Burton Copeland , asked for them in March. BCL, which carried
out a separate investigation for News International, has also
parted ways with the company since coming under lawmakers’
scrutiny for failing to find evidence of widespread hacking.  HCL Letter  E-mail deletions by News International have already
captured the attention of lawmakers. Keith Vaz, the chairman of
the U.K. Parliament’s Home Affairs Committee, asked India-based
 HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT)  whether Murdoch’s British unit had sought
help in deleting e-mails.  HCL, which won a five-year contract to manage News
International’s data center and networks in 2009, said in a
letter to lawmakers it was asked for assistance in deleting e-
mails nine times between April 2010 and July 2011.  In January 2011, the month when News International changed
its stance and began handing information to the police, the
company requested help to “truncate a particular database,”
according to the letter. HCL said it wasn’t able to handle the
request and suggested another company.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  