-- 
Nigeria Plans Spending Cuts, 3% Deficit, Finance Chief Okonjo-Iweala Says

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-08-24T14:47:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/nigeria-plans-spending-cuts-3-deficit-finance-chief-okonjo-iweala-says.html
Nigeria ’s government will cut
recurrent spending, such as wages, and keep the  budget deficit 
at 3 percent of output while boosting infrastructure investment
to create jobs, Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said.  “We need to maintain macroeconomic stability,” she told
reporters today in Abuja, the capital. “We need to manage our
fiscal situation in a more prudent manner. Monetary and fiscal
policies must work hand-in-hand.”  Nigeria,  Africa ’s biggest oil producer and most populous
nation, increased spending and raised wages this year as it held
elections. Recurrent spending accounts for 74 percent of the
country’s 4.5 trillion-naira ($29 billion) budget. Okonjo-
Iweala, who doubles as coordinating minister for the economy,
said she plans to trim spending to “a more reasonable figure”
of 70 percent within four years.  The government of President Goodluck Jonathan plans to
invest more money in infrastructure projects including power,
road and rail. The government will focus on investment-climate
changes and complete overhauls in other industries including the
removal of a subsidy on refined fuel, Okonjo-Iweala said.  The minister said she favors the central bank’s policy of
pegging the naira to the dollar to provide stability for
businesses, and promised to work with Governor Lamido Sanusi to
have an  exchange rate  that “reflects the economy.”  In a bid to control inflation, the Central Bank of Nigeria
targets naira stabilization by keeping the rate within 3 percent
above or below 150 per dollar at its twice-weekly currency
auctions.  Nigeria is Africa’s third-largest economy after  South
Africa  and  Egypt . The federal government’s domestic debt rose to
5.21 trillion naira at the end of June, from 4.87 trillion naira
as of March, according to statements on the Debt Management
Office’s website. Nigeria’s economy probably expanded 7.9
percent in the second quarter and will grow 8 percent this year,
according to the  National Bureau of Statistics .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  