-- 
TNK-BP, Bashneft Offer Better Value Than Gazprom, Mazalov Says

-- B y   L i n z i e   J a n i s   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-24T11:21:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/tnk-bp-bashneft-offer-better-value-than-gazprom-mazalov-says.html
Investors seeking to take advantage
of a slump in Russian equities should buy OAO Bashneft and TNK-
BP over fuel-industry peers such as OAO Gazprom, the natural gas
export monopoly, according to Prosperity Capital Management.  “With the recent pull back in market prices, valuations of
Russian companies have become even more attractive,” said  Ivan Mazalov , who helps oversee $5 billion in investments in Moscow
as a director of Prosperity. “ Oil prices  are up more than 10
percent this year and Russian indexes are in the red.”  While Gazprom is trading at less than four times current
earnings and OAO Transneft at barely two times, the companies’
failure to return sufficient income to shareholders and a lack
of growth has reduced confidence in their stocks, he said. In
contrast TNK-BP and Bashneft offer low valuations as well as
expansion of their production and returns to equities.  “Bashneft has grown its oil production by about 30 percent
since the middle of 2009,” Mazalov told Linzie Janis and  Owen Thomas  on Bloomberg Television’s Countdown. “They also return
nearly 100 percent of their profit as cash to shareholders,
which translates to very attractive dividend yields.”  Prosperity holds Bashneft, Transneft, Gazprom and TNK-BP,
the traded unit of a BP Plc joint venture, its website shows.  Russia’s benchmark Micex Index of stocks has declined 15
percent since the start of the year, while Brent crude oil
prices are up by the same amount at $109 a barrel.  Gazprom has tumbled 12 percent this year to 169.58 rubles
as of 3:07 p.m. in Moscow trading, with a dividend yield of 2.27
percent, according to Bloomberg data. Transneft preferred shares
have declined 6.7 percent in the period and yield 0.89 percent.  Bashneft, controlled by billionaire  Vladimir Yevtushenkov ’s
AFK Sistema, has gained 6.3 percent to $47 and has an indicated
dividend yield of 19.6 percent, according to Bloomberg data.
TNK-BP has a dividend yield of 10.57 percent, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 