-- 
Nokia Strengthens Symbian Phones Against Android in China

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-08-24T16:21:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/nokia-announces-further-symbian-revamp-on-affordable-handsets.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones by units, announced three Symbian smartphones
equipped with an extra wireless technology called near-field
communications to stem market share losses to Google Inc.’s
Android.  Within  Asia  there’s “a big requirement” for these types
of products, Colin Giles, the company’s sales chief, said in an
interview in Hong Kong. Giles is also the interim head for
Nokia’s business in China, where he’s reorganizing operations
after the company’s shipments in the country plummeted 41
percent last quarter to 11.3 million phones.  Nokia is trying to extend its 10-year-old Symbian product
line to maintain sales as it shifts to Microsoft Corp.’s Windows
Phone 7 operating system for high-end smartphones. The models
announced today start at 180 euros ($260) and use NFC to
communicate with nearby devices including other smartphones.
Rivals using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system are already driving
prices for low-end smartphones below 100 euros, further
expanding the fastest-growing handset segment.  “We have said we are transitioning to the Windows Phone,
and that’s our overall objective,” Giles said in the interview.
“At the same time we plan to continue to enhance the Symbian
platform.”  Nokia will continue rolling out updates to Symbian through
next year, Giles said. He also reiterated commitments to support
Symbian products to 2016.  Android Sales  Android was the best-selling smartphone operating system
worldwide in the second quarter as sales rose more than fourfold
to 43.3 percent of the market, led by Samsung Electronics Co.
and  HTC Corp. (2498) ,  according to  Gartner Inc. Apple had an 18.2
percent share.  Nokia’s handset revenue in  China   fell  34 percent in the
second quarter, helping trigger a profit warning, as retailers
sold out overstock from the first quarter when revenue  rose  30
percent. The company also faced softening demand in the Chinese
market, Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop said in the July 21
results presentation.  Nokia replaced managers in China and named the 48-year-old
Giles as interim head for the country. Giles had previously
served as Nokia’s head of China and northeast Asia.  “We have made a number of changes in our China business in
the past couple of months, and some of the issues we announced a
couple of months ago around challenges with our inventory have
been fixed,” Giles said. “I can say today that our inventories
are at healthy levels.”  He declined to give a forecast for Nokia’s China sales.  ‘Angry Birds’  The Espoo, Finland-based company accounted for 24 percent
of China’s mobile-phone market by shipments in the second
quarter, declining from 32.2 percent three months earlier,
according to research company Analysys International. Second-
placed Samsung’s market share increased to 21.6 percent from
21.4 percent, according to the Beijing-based researcher.  Nokia, based in Espoo,  Finland , began including NFC
hardware on mass-market handsets last year with the C7, sold in
the U.S. as the Nokia Astound.  NFC permits users to exchange photos and contacts directly,
activate headsets and speakers by tapping them, bring up Web
pages by tapping specially tagged posters, and access features
in games.  Google,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , and other handset makers
are also trying out NFC, some versions of which can be used for
electronic payments.  Nokia announced a previous update called “Symbian Anna”
in April, adding a faster browser and a portrait-mode keyboard
for touchscreens. That update shipped on two new devices this
summer and was rolled out to existing users of N8 family devices
on Aug. 18.  The company said in February it aimed to sell 150 million
more Symbian handsets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  