-- 
Irene Threat to East Coast Spurs Evacuations as Emergency Crews Stand By

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u ,   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-08-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/north-carolina-begins-evacuation-to-prepare-for-hurricane-irene-s-landfall.html
Colleen Horodnik is going “to run
ahead of the storm” by leaving a Bogue Sound vacation home in
 North Carolina  a day early, making way for Hurricane Irene.  “We’re going to close up the house, batten down the
hatches and head home” to West Milford,  New Jersey , said
Horodnik, reading a book as the sun set and her husband, Walter,
fished from a pier in the beach town of Emerald Isle. “It could
be really bad.”  Not all coastal visitors are leaving by choice. Hyde and
Dare counties have ordered tourists to evacuate.  Irene, a Category 3 storm with maximum sustained winds of
120 miles (193 kilometers) an hour, may be the first major
hurricane to hit the U.S. East Coast since Wilma struck Florida
in 2005. Irene may make landfall at Cape Hatteras on Aug. 27,
then weaken, aides to Governor Beverly Perdue said yesterday in
a  statement . It may strengthen today to Category 4, with 135
mile-an-hour winds, the National Hurricane Center said.  “It’s a big storm,” Perdue told reporters at a briefing
in Raleigh yesterday. “We must all prepare for the worst.”  That message was echoed along the length of the East
Coast, where governors and public-safety officials advised
shoreline residents to prepare for a blow. The governors of New
York and  Connecticut  ordered agencies to make ready for the
storm, which may reach the Northeast Aug. 28. In  Rhode Island ,
officials plan to activate a 24-hour operations center, said
Denis Riel, a spokesman for the Emergency Management Agency.  Ready to Go  The U.S. Navy yesterday ordered all its ships in the
Hampton Roads area of Virginia, which includes Norfolk and
Newport News, to prepare to get under way within 24 hours as a
precaution, according to a statement. A decision on whether to
order the ships to sea will be made based on updated forecasts.  The  Federal Emergency Management Agency  set up an
“incident support base” for North Carolina at the Fort Bragg
army base and has sent supplies including generators, water,
food and baby formula, Administrator Craig Fugate told reporters
on a conference call. The state’s emergency-response center also
will stay open around the clock beginning today.  Hyde County, which includes Ocracoke Island in the  Outer
Banks  and has about 6,000 residents, evacuated visitors
yesterday and will begin moving out residents today, Jeff
Hibbard, deputy director of  emergency services , said by
telephone. To the south, Dare County has ordered vacationers to
leave by 8:00 a.m.  today .  Evacuation Considered  Currituck County, which borders  Virginia , also may order an
evacuation, said Mary Beth Newns, director of emergency
management.  Residents of Atlantic Beach, near Emerald Isle, were buying
supplies including flashlights and tarps at the Ace Hardware
store, owner Phillip Helms said.  “We haven’t seen any panic buying yet, but obviously a lot
can happen between now and the next 24 hours,” Helms said
yesterday by telephone. “People have just kind of learned to be
on edge, be ready, but just kind of watch it until it gets
closer.”  At home-improvement chains Lowe’s Cos. and  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ,
consumers are snapping up plywood, bottled water, batteries and
generators. Demand for such “pre-strike” items, which earlier
this week was focused in South  Florida , was strongest from
 Virginia Beach  to Rhode Island yesterday, said Atlanta-based
Home Depot’s Russ Householder.  Stocking Up  Lowe’s has sent more than 200 truckloads of supplies to
stores in areas threatened by Irene, said Karen Cobb, a
spokeswoman for the Mooresville, North Carolina-based retailer.  Martin Franks wasn’t taking chances and bought three
generators from a Lowe’s in Knightdale, North Carolina.  “This is just in case,” said the U.S. Justice Department
employee, who said he was preparing to keep his office
functioning no matter what the weather. “If they call a state
of emergency, we’ll need to operate 24-7.”  State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. is also making
preparations. The Bloomington, Illinois-based company is
readying teams to handle damage claims, said Kim Conyers, a
spokeswoman in North Carolina.  From  New York  to  Maine , officials kept a wary eye on the
storm. In  New York City , a direct hit by Irene may produce a
storm surge of at least 6 feet (1.8 meters), and may prompt an
evacuation of the Rockaways, Coney Island and  Manhattan ’s lower
tip, said Deputy Mayor Caswell Holloway.  Twin Threats  In Rhode Island, the storm may pose two threats, said Riel,
who is also a lieutenant colonel in the National Guard.  “A surging tide represents a real threat to our 21 coastal
communities, and a low watershed represents a significant
riverine flooding threat” inland, Riel said by telephone.  Irene might dump 6 inches (15 centimeters) to 12 inches of
rain on  Massachusetts , said Peter Judge, a spokesman for the
state Emergency Management Agency. He said the biggest concern
in the Bay State is “hurricane amnesia” because the last one
to hit was Bob in 1991.  “Many people have never been through one of these, or it’s
been so long they don’t have a recollection of the impact and
the timing,” he said.  Lamont Logan of  Newport News , Virginia, remembers well how
bad it can be, after having lost power for two weeks when the
remnants of Hurricane Isabel hit in 2003. He was stocking up on
water, ice, canned goods and batteries yesterday.  “It was a whole lot of crazy stuff,” he said. “I learned
my lesson that time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus,  Ohio , at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro, North Carolina, at   cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  