-- 
Norway’s Oil Fund Excludes Billionaire Slim’s Grupo Carso

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-08-24T20:25:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/norway-oil-fund-to-exclude-grupo-carso-from-portfolio-correct-.html
Norway ’s sovereign wealth fund
excluded Grupo Carso SAB, a holding company controlled by
Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim , from its portfolio because of
its involvement in tobacco production.  The $540 billion fund, built from Norway’s oil and natural
gas wealth, sold its shares in the company because of its
ownership in Compania Mercantil de Productos de Tabaco SA and
Philip Morris Mexico SA, the Oslo-based  Finance Ministry  said in
a  statement .  Arturo Elias , a spokesman for Slim, didn’t return
an e-mailed message today.  Norway’s Government Pension Fund Global held 160.3 million
kroner ($30 million) worth of shares in Grupo Carso at the end
of 2010. The fund takes into account ethical rules encompassing
human rights, some weapons production, the environment and
tobacco when deciding on investments. It has  excluded  about 50
companies after a decision by the nation’s Finance Ministry
following recommendations from the Ethics Council. The
exclusions are announced after the shares are sold.  Over the past three years, Europe’s largest equity investor
has excluded more than 15  tobacco companies  from its portfolio,
including  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) , Imperial Tobacco
Group Plc and British American Tobacco Plc.  Carso gained 13 centavos to 28.51 pesos at 4:10 p.m. New
York time in Mexico City trading. The shares have dropped 26
percent this year. Slim holds a 79 percent stake in the company.  Carso, based in Mexico City, entered the tobacco business
in the 1980s by acquiring a majority stake in a company called
Cigatam. Carso sold off portions of its tobacco holdings in 1997
and 2007 to Philip Morris International and now holds a 20
percent stake in Philip Morris Mexico.  That investment generated 684 million pesos ($55.4 million)
in profit last year for Carso, which reported 2010 sales of 64.2
billion pesos. Carso’s main businesses are retail, construction
and industrial materials.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  