-- 
Obama Jobs Push Collides With NLRB Complaint

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-08-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/obama-jobs-push-collides-with-nlrb-complaint.html
President  Barack Obama , emphasizing
 job creation  in his 2012 re-election push, faces a drag on his
message from his own appointees to the board created as a
watchdog for workers’ rights.  After picking the members of the  National Labor Relations
Board , Obama finds himself pressured by Republicans and business
groups to distance himself from the NLRB’s complaint against
 Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 2009 decision to build a factory in South Carolina.  While the case pivots narrowly on whether Boeing retaliated
against Seattle-area union members by citing past strikes in
moving work to a nonunion state, Obama’s critics have recast it
as meddling with a growing employer in a recovery with too few
new jobs, according to scholars such as  Princeton University ’s
 Julian Zelizer  and  Clark University ’s  Gary Chaison .  “It does hurt him,” said Chaison, who is based in
Worcester,  Massachusetts . “On the surface it appears that
Obama’s creation of jobs is really a secondary priority and
satisfying his political allies comes first.”  Each side in the debate is symbolic to its partisans.
Boeing is the world’s largest aerospace company, the biggest
U.S. exporter and builds its jetliners in the U.S. The NLRB
earned labor groups’ praise for backing the Machinists in their
dispute with Boeing amid an anti-union political climate.  Those emotions and the onset of the 2012 campaign inject
electoral passions into the NLRB’s inquiry into how Boeing chose
a plant to build the 787 Dreamliner, the first composite-plastic
airliner and a jet best known for three years of delays.  ‘Off Center’  “Republicans have been able to use this case as a symbol
of their claims that he is off center when it comes to domestic
policy,” Zelizer said yesterday in an interview.  Obama has limited his comments on the matter. Asked about
the complaint at a news conference in June, Obama said
management and labor should be able to reach an agreement and
declined to get into specifics, saying the NLRB was an
independent agency.  “As a general proposition, companies need to have the
freedom to relocate,” he said then. “What defies common sense
is the notion that we would be shutting down a plant or laying
off workers because labor and management can’t come to a
sensible agreement.”  Peter Schaumber, a former NLRB chairman who was appointed
by President  George W. Bush , said companies he has worked with
in  Canada  have told him they would “think twice before doing
business in the  United States  as a result of this case.” He
declined to identify the companies.  ‘Cease This Attack’  Nine state attorneys general, including South Carolina’s
Alan Wilson, a Republican, sent a letter to the board in April
calling for an end to “cease this attack on our right to work,
our states’ economies, and our jobs.”  The complaint filed April 20 against Boeing by the NLRB’s
Acting General Counsel Lafe Solomon didn’t seek to shut the
South Carolina factory. It called for increasing production at
the planemaker’s commercial hub in Washington state to an
equivalent level as planned for  South Carolina .  The NLRB cited statements by Boeing executives and
spokesmen that the “overriding” factor in the choice of South
Carolina was difficulty in reaching contracts with Seattle-area
union workers. That would be a retaliatory step forbidden by
federal law, the board’s complaint said.  Boeing has denied that it was trying to punish striking
union members in picking South Carolina as the home of the first
commercial-jet factory outside Washington’s Puget Sound region.
The North Charleston plant opened last month and has 1,000
workers, who aim to produce their first Dreamliner next year.  Chilling Message  Being forced by the NLRB to keep 787 work in Washington
over the favored South Carolina site would send a chilling
message to business, Boeing Chief Executive Officer James McNerney wrote in a May 11 Wall Street Journal op-ed.  “The world the NLRB wants to create with its complaint
would effectively prevent all companies from placing new plants
in right-to-work states if they have existing plants in
unionized states,” wrote McNerney, 62. “As an unintended
consequence, forward-thinking CEOs also would be reluctant to
place new plants in unionized states lest they be forever
restricted from placing future plants elsewhere.”  The NLRB has said it had no choice but to enforce U.S.
labor laws and file the complaint. Any hope for a swift
resolution has evaporated as a hearing in a Seattle courtroom
drags into its third month of preliminary arguments over
procedural matters.  Hearing Schedule  Lawyers outlined a hearing schedule yesterday for the rest
of the year and discussed various stages at which either side
could escalate a matter to the full labor board or to federal
court, extending the case. The board now has four members, with
one vacancy, and two are set to leave by Dec. 31.  Obama’s Republican critics, led by South Carolina Governor
Nikki Haley and  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina
Republican, have urged him to take the one step that could
influence the board: remove Solomon as acting general counsel, a
post to which he was named by the president.  Schaumber and  Ron Meisburg , a former NLRB general counsel
who also served under Bush, said there is little Obama can do to
stop the board from pursuing a case that could hurt him
politically.  “I never got a call from the president in my four-and-a-
half years in that job, and I would hope that that’s still the
case,” Meisburg said in an interview.  Wolfgang Demisch, an aerospace financial consultant in  New
York , questioned Boeing’s fight with the Machinists union when
the planemaker is gearing up for a new variant of the narrow-
body 737, its top-selling model.  He drew a contrast between Boeing and Airbus SAS, a unit of
Paris- and Munich-based European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co.
and the world’s largest commercial planemaker after outselling
its U.S. rival since 2003.  Boeing and the union “need to come together in order to
survive,” Demisch said. “If Airbus can build planes reasonably
effectively in  Germany , where by law there’s labor
representation on the board, then it can’t be totally
impossible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in  Washington  at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  