-- 
Crude Trades Near Two-Day Low; Standard Chartered Cuts Price Forecasts

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-08-25T06:16:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-as-dollar-s-gains-counters-stockpile-decline.html
Oil traded near a two-day low in New
York as investors looked beyond data showing a decline in U.S.
crude stockpiles and bet that faltering economic growth will
temper fuel demand.  Futures fluctuated before a speech tomorrow by Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who may outline steps to
stimulate the world’s largest economy. Standard Chartered Plc
reduced its oil-price forecasts before a report that may show
U.S. growth slowed in the second quarter. Crude inventories fell
for a second week last week, slipping by about 2 million barrels,
U.S. government data showed yesterday.  “Everyone’s sitting back and waiting to see what Bernanke
has to say,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director of
Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney who predicts crude
will average $100 a barrel this year. “A 2 million drop in
crude stockpiles is neither here nor there.”  Crude for October delivery was at $85.24 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, down 0.1
percent at 2:07 p.m. Singapore time. Yesterday, the contract
lost 28 cents to $85.16, the lowest close since Aug. 22. Prices
have gained 17 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for October settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange traded at $110.32 a barrel, up 17 cents.
The European benchmark contract was at a premium of $25.12 to
U.S. futures, down from a record $26.21 on Aug. 19.  Crude Stockpiles  U.S. crude inventories decreased 0.6 percent to 351.8
million in the week ended Aug. 19, according to the Energy
Department. Supplies were forecast to increase 1.75 million
barrels, based on the median estimate from analyst surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Gasoline inventories climbed 1.36 million barrels to 211.4
million, as imports increased and refineries boosted processing
rates to the highest in five weeks, the report showed.  Standard Chartered  lowered its third-quarter price
forecasts on “weaker than expected” demand in the U.S. and
speculation that supply disruptions in the  North Sea  and West
Africa will end. Brent may average $112 a barrel, down from an
earlier estimate of $115, London-based analyst Helen Henton said
in a report yesterday. New York crude may average $90, down from
Standard Chartered’s prior estimate of $98.  Earlier this week, BNP Paribas SA cut its 2012 price
Predictions, and Morgan Stanley said a resumption in exports
from  Libya  would trigger a reduction of its estimates.  GDP Growth  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1.1 percent annual
pace in the second quarter, down from the 1.3 percent that the
government estimated last month, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists before a Commerce Department report
tomorrow. Bernanke will deliver a speech to central bankers
tomorrow at a meeting in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  Hurricane Irene was a Category 3 storm in the Atlantic and
is forecast to approach  North Carolina  this weekend. It packed
maximum winds of 115 miles (185 kilometers) per hour and may be
upgraded today to Category 4, the second-most intense on the
five-step  Saffir-Simpson scale , the U.S. National Hurricane
Center said in an advisory at 1:40 a.m. Miami time today.  The U.S. East Coast region has 10 operating refineries with
a capacity of 1.21 million barrels a day, based on Energy
Department data. The area accounts for 7.1 percent of total U.S.
operating capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  