-- 
Toll Brothers Gains Most Since January as Profit Beats Analyst Estimates

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-08-24T21:19:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/toll-brothers-net-beats-estimates.html
Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S.
luxury-home builder, reported earnings that were better than
analysts expected after a tax benefit and demand for its move-up
houses remained stronger than other segments of the market.  Net income for the third quarter ended July 31 was $42.1
million, or 25 cents a share, up from $27.3 million, or 16
cents, a year earlier, the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based company
said today in a statement. Analysts expected earnings of 3 cents
a share, the average of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “Our earnings were primarily driven by a  tax refund ,”
Chief Executive Officer Douglas Yearley Jr. said in an interview
today on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.” The rest of
the business was little changed, “but maybe in today’s world,
flat isn’t all that bad,” he said.  The shares rose 4.6 percent, the most since Jan. 6, to
$15.42 as of 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading. The stock is down 19 percent this year, less than the
29 percent decline for the 12-member Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilding index.  Toll’s target market of move-up buyers mostly in the mid-
Atlantic region has shown more strength than first-time
homeowners in Sun Belt states targeted by most other builders,
said Stephen East, an analyst with Ticonderoga Securities LLC in
New York. He has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  Bulls and Bears  “Results were generally good,” East wrote in a note to
investors today. “However, embedded in the results is a lot of
noise that gives both bulls and bears plenty of fodder.”  Homebuilders have struggled for profitability as sales
slumped amid low  consumer confidence , tight credit, falling
property values and an unemployment rate of more than 9 percent.
New-home sales fell to an annual pace of 298,000 in July, the
Commerce Department reported yesterday. At that rate, 2011 would
be the slowest year in records dating to 1963.  “The nation’s economy continues to suffer from a lack of
jobs in housing construction and the related manufacturing and
service sectors that a healthy new home market would typically
generate,” Chairman Robert Toll said in the statement.  Toll’s third-quarter revenue decreased to $394.3 million
from $454.2 million. Sales a year ago were boosted by federal
tax credits worth as much as $8,000 for first-time homebuyers
who signed contracts before April 30, 2010. The average selling
prices was little changed at $570,000.  New York Area  Under Yearley, the company has increased sales of
multifamily homes in the New York City area and expanded into
trading distressed real estate assets to diversify beyond the
single-family homes identified with Toll. Sales of New York-area
condos made up 24 percent of revenue in the latest quarter,
Yearley said on Bloomberg Television.  Gibraltar Capital and Asset Management LLC, the company’s
distressed-asset arm, added $4 million to profits, according to
the statement.  Toll recorded a net tax benefit of $38.2 million in the
quarter, compared with $26.5 million a year earlier, because of
a reversal of previously accrued state and federal taxes.  Orders for Toll homes rose 1.7 percent to 713 in the third
quarter from a year earlier. The cancellation rate climbed to
7.4 percent from 6.2 percent.  Demir Gjokaj, an analyst with ITG Investment Research Inc.,
had forecast an 18 percent increase in orders, and said other
analyst estimates called for an 11 percent rise.  “When demand is down and cancellations are up, there are
no clearer signs the luxury consumer is getting skittish,”
Gjokaj said in a telephone interview from New York today. “If
Toll is seeing really soft demand and they’re in the strongest
segments, then that’ll have to shadow the rest of the
homebuilding group.”  Toll narrowed its outlook for home deliveries in 2011 to a
range of 2,475 to 2,675. In May, it predicted it would deliver
between 2,300 and 2,800 homes this year. Last year, the builder
sold 2,605 homes, down from a 2005 peak of 10,796.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  