-- 
Homeowner Associations in Need of Cash Sue to Force Foreclosures

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-08-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/homeowner-associations-in-need-of-cash-sue-lenders-to-force-foreclosures.html
Members of the Vintage East
Condominium Association in Miami Beach got tired of waiting for
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to foreclose on unit 9, so they sued the
bank in February to take control of the property.  In June, more than four years after the owner stopped
making payments, a judge ruled that JPMorgan lost its claim to
the $144,000 mortgage. The apartment is now on the market for
$87,500, and the association may stave off insolvency with
proceeds from the sale and a new owner who pays monthly dues,
said Jane Losson, a board member at the complex. Four of the 11
other owners at the property are also behind on dues.  “I find it an outrage that the bank had decided to do
nothing and the other owners got stuck,” Losson, who’s had her
Vintage East condo since 2004, said in a telephone interview.
“If we get this unit sold, we’ll have a little money.”  Financially troubled condo associations are taking banks to
court as foreclosure delays enable delinquent homeowners to stay
in their buildings for years, often without paying dues that
keep boards running. The groups start by pressuring lenders to
speed up home seizures and take over payment of the monthly
fees. In extreme situations, like the Vintage East case,
associations may force banks to give up rights to the property.  “The lenders are stalling foreclosures,” Ben Solomon, the
Miami Beach attorney for the Vintage East association, said in a
telephone interview. “Our complaints say the banks abandoned
their interest and either need to accept responsibility for the
title or walk away.”  ‘Mortgage Terminator’  Solomon, whose  Association Law Group  represented homeowner
boards in 16 Florida counties with 15,000 delinquent owners,
also won what he calls “mortgage terminator” lawsuits in
claims against  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DB)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , according to court records.  About 60 million people, or one in five Americans, live in
residences with condo or homeowner associations, according to
the Community Associations Institute, a trade group in Falls
Church, Virginia. States with some of the highest foreclosure
rates -- Florida, Nevada, California and  Arizona  -- are also
among those with the biggest share of populations in homeowner
associations, said Frank Rathbun, spokesman for the 30,000-
member trade group. The associations maintain residents’ common
interests such as parking lots, roofs, landscaping and trash
removal.  “About 50 percent of our members said the housing crisis
and economic downturn have had a severe or serious impact on
their association,” Rathbun said in a telephone interview.  Pushing Banks  About one in three Californians live in that state’s 45,000
condo and homeowner associations, said Kelly Richardson, an
attorney who specializes in homeowner association law.  “Banks have been slow catching up to reality,”
Richardson, with the firm of Richardson Harman Ober PC in
 Pasadena , said in a telephone interview. “When pushed, they’ll
step up to the plate, but you have to push them.”  In Nevada -- the state with the highest rate of foreclosure
filings, according to RealtyTrac Inc. -- delinquent homeowners
owe associations about $150 million in back dues, said Steven
Parker, president of Red Rock Financial Services, which collects
debts for associations in Nevada and five other states.  “It’s probably at least $1 billion for the whole
country,” Parker, whose company is a unit of  FirstService
Corp. (FSV) , said in a telephone interview from  Las Vegas . “Prior to
foreclosure, we get almost nothing from banks. After the
foreclosure, probably 30 percent of what we’re collecting is
from banks.”  Drop in Foreclosures  U.S. foreclosure filings -- notices of default, auction or
seizure -- fell to their lowest level in almost four years in
July, as lenders and government agencies increased efforts to
keep delinquent borrowers in their homes and paperwork delays
slowed repossessions, RealtyTrac reported Aug. 11.  Filings have plunged for 10 straight months after state
attorneys general began probing a practice known as “robo-
signing,” in which lenders and servicers pushed through default
documents without verifying their accuracy. The decline has been
steepest in Florida and other so-called judicial states that
require courts to approve foreclosures.  The bank delays have left homes in the delinquency process
longer. U.S. homeowners facing foreclosure averaged 587 days
without making a mortgage payment in June, up from 251 days in
January 2008, according to  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS) , a
real estate information company in Jacksonville, Florida.  Florida Delinquencies  In Florida, where 14 percent of homes with a mortgage have
a foreclosure notice, the average delinquent borrower hadn’t
made a payment for 719 days, or almost two years, LPS data show.  As of June 30, 18.68 percent of home loans in Florida were
more than three months delinquent or in foreclosure, the most of
any state and more than double the U.S. average of 7.85 percent,
the  Mortgage Bankers Association  reported this week.  “Florida’s numbers continue to drive national numbers,”
 Jay Brinkmann , chief economist of the Washington-based trade
group, said at an Aug. 22 news conference.  Banks often hold off on a foreclosure as long as they can
to avoid paying dues, property taxes and occupancy costs, said
John Rickel, chief executive officer of  Association Dues
Assurance Corp ., a St. Clair Shores,  Michigan , company that
collects fees for community associations in 20 states.  “We probably have 100 to 300 banks that we’re trying to
collect from right at the moment,” Rickel said in a telephone
interview. “We’re always 100 percent successful in collecting
against banks because they do have the funds available.”  Limiting Collections  Associations’ rights vary based on state law. In Nevada,
the groups have “super priority,” which means they can collect
up to nine months of back dues plus costs when a residence
sells, even after a foreclosure. In other states, such as
Arizona, homeowner associations can sue to garnish wages of
delinquent residents, even if they have lost the property.  Florida law limits homeowner associations from collecting
more than 12 months of back dues or 1 percent of the outstanding
mortgage, whichever is less, after a foreclosure. That cap often
doesn’t apply to banks, said Frank Silcox, president of  LM
Funding LLC , a Tampa, Florida-based company that advances cash
to condo associations in exchange for the lien rights on past-
due accounts.  “Our attorneys look for a reason the foreclosing bank
isn’t entitled to the minimum,” Silcox said in a telephone
interview. “Nine out of 10 times, we get the bank to pay.”  In one  Miami Beach  condo case, LM Funding collected $52,000
-- counting late fees, 18 percent interest and collection costs
-- instead of about $3,000 the bank would have paid under the
state limit, he said.  $148,000 in Dues  About 40 percent of LM Funding’s collections come from
banks, with the balance from individual homeowners and through
short sales, when the lender agrees to sell a property for less
than the mortgage balance, Silcox said.  Bonnie Jordan, manager of the Bermuda Dunes Condo Residence
Association in Orlando, said LM Funding advanced her $150,000
and recovered an additional $148,000 in back dues, helping the
336-unit development pay its bills after owners of 115 units
went into foreclosure.  “We had $375,000 in bad debt,” said Jordan, whose complex
charges monthly fees of $250 to $357. “LM Funding is recouping
every dime for us.”  While banks present a potentially lucrative source of
delinquent dues, they’re also a challenging target because they
use legal tactics to prolong the foreclosure process, said Ellen
Hirsch de Haan, an attorney with  Becker & Poliakoff PA  in
Clearwater,  Florida , who represents homeowner associations.  Canceling Hearings  “The banks are setting and then canceling hearings before
the final judgment is eventually entered,” she said in an e-
mail, “then setting and canceling the sale date, then failing
to record the certificate of title, thereby postponing the
actual transfer of title to the bank for months, or even
years.”  Bank of America, with 1.1 million mortgages at least 90
days delinquent, addresses non-performing loans as fast as
possible while complying with the law,  Jumana Bauwens , a
spokeswoman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank, wrote
in an e-mail. Bank of America loans in which borrowers were at
least three months late were valued at $32.5 billion as of March
31, up from $26.97 billion a year earlier, according to Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. data compiled by Bloomberg.  “After exhausting all home-retention efforts, it is in the
best interest of servicers and investors to move the foreclosure
process along while abiding by Florida laws,” Bauwens said in
the e-mail. “On average, homeowners are delinquent 18 months
prior to a foreclosure sale. In judicial states like Florida,
the process is longer.”  Bank Trustees  To compel banks to act, Solomon’s lawsuits start by suing
the homeowner for unpaid dues as a way of seeking title to the
property. Then he files a claim against the bank, contending the
non-performing loan restricts the association’s right to sell
the property because the mortgage is worth more than the home.  The bank defendant is usually a trustee for the loan that
was sold into a mortgage-backed security, a legal structure that
can leave the party responsible for a mortgage unclear.  Citigroup and Deutsche Bank declined to challenge lawsuits
brought by Solomon because both banks were trustees, not the
servicers of the delinquent loans, bank representatives said.  In March 2010, Citigroup lost a lawsuit over a Miami Beach
condo with a $136,000 mortgage, according to court filings.
Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the New York-based
bank, declined to comment, saying Citigroup wasn’t the servicer.  Deutsche Bank  Deutsche Bank in September forfeited its right to a unit
with a $149,300 mortgage to the Palm Aire Gardens Condominium
Association Inc. in Pompano Beach, Florida.  “Litton Loan Servicing, the loan servicer for the loan,
and not Deutsche Bank as trustee, was responsible for all
foreclosure activity relating to the loan,” John Gallagher, a
Deutsche Bank spokesman in  New York , said in an e-mail.  Donna Marie Jendritza, a spokeswoman for Litton in Houston,
declined to comment on the lawsuit, citing privacy restrictions.
Litton, which Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is selling to Ocwen
Financial Corp., wasn’t named in the complaint or other court
documents.  “We sue whoever holds the mortgage,” Solomon said. “The
bottom line is the bank had a loan and the mortgage got
terminated.”  No Defense  Palm Aire Gardens also won title to a unit with a $184,410
mortgage after Wells Fargo failed to mount a defense because it
no longer owned the loan, a transfer that wasn’t reflected in
property records, said Tom Goyda, a spokesman. The bank would
have defended the mortgage if it hadn’t sold the loan, he said.  The San Francisco-based bank had $9.6 billion in mortgages
more than 90 days delinquent and $11.4 billion in non-performing
mortgages on one- to four-family homes as of June 30, Goyda
said.  JPMorgan, the lender in the Vintage East case, had $2.5
billion in second-quarter costs tied to faulty mortgages and
foreclosures, it reported July 14.  “There have been so many flaws in mortgages that it’s been
an unmitigated disaster,” Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon
said in a conference call that day. “We just really need to
clean it up for the sake of everybody. And everybody is going to
sue everybody else, and it’s going to go on for a long time.”  Vintage East  Thomas Kelly, a spokesman for JPMorgan in  Chicago , declined
to comment on the Vintage East lawsuit or other cases in which
the bank lost properties to homeowner associations.  The bank’s mortgage at Vintage East was on a studio
apartment with $24,000 in unpaid back dues, said Losson, the
board member. Other residents of the Art Deco complex, built in
1937 two blocks from the beach, loaned the association money to
pay for roof and building repairs and wrote personal checks to
cover insurance payments, she said.  “We’re still in precarious condition, but we can see our
way out now,” said Losson, who estimated the condo association
was owed $60,000 in delinquent dues. “We went up against
JPMorgan Chase and we won. It’s a good story. There’s a way out
of the morass.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 