-- 
Petrom Concludes Talks With Romanian Regulator on Licenses

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-08-24T13:56:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/omv-petrom-concludes-talks-with-romanian-regulator-on-licenses.html
OMV Petrom SA (SNP)  completed talks with
the Romanian mineral resources regulator for an extension of its
exploration licenses in the country and is waiting government
approval, after giving up 25 percent of the initially contracted
permits, according to a regulatory official.  Petrom, which has been in talks with the authorities to
renew exploration licenses for 14 onshore oil and gas blocks,
seeks a three-year extension of the permits and plans to stop
exploring some blocks and portions of other blocks because of
poor results it got during testing, Alexandru Patruti, the head
of  Romania ’s  Mineral Resources Agency  said.  “We agreed with Petrom to extend some licenses until
September 12, 2014,” Patruti said in a phone interview from
Bucharest yesterday. “We signed the addendum to the contract
and are waiting for the government’s approval,” he said, adding
that the licenses Petrom gave up will be auctioned off
“sometime in the future.”  The Romanian licenses, which  OMV AG (OMV) , central Europe biggest
oil company, holds via Petrom, are due to expire on September 12
and were granted to Petrom before it was sold to OMV in 2004. A
failure to renew the licenses or a renewal delay would have “a
material adverse effect on Petrom’s business, results of
operations and financial condition,” OMV said in May in the
prospectus of a planned share sale.  Petrom’s “sustainable-exploration strategy has yielded
tangible results and its ongoing projects absolutely need a
three-year extension of the exploration period,” the regulator
said in a draft law on its website. “It’s essential for Petrom
to be granted adequate time to systematically explore the blocks
to maximize its changes of obtaining oil and gas in a reasonable
period of time.”  Petrom shares rose the most in almost two weeks, advancing
3 percent to 0.3074 lei at the 4:45 p.m. close of trading in
Bucharest. That values Romania’s biggest oil company at 17.4
billion lei ($5.9 billion).  Petrom and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  said in July they will start
drilling the first deep-water well in the country by the end of
the year or the beginning of 2012, after the government extended
a block exploration concession in the  Black Sea  by five years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  