-- 
Hong Kong Judge Reserves Decision on Maid’s Residency Challenge

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   G a r v e y   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-08-24T05:56:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/hong-kong-judge-reserves-decision-on-maid-s-residency-challenge.html
A  Hong Kong  Judge said he will try
to rule by the end of next month on a Philippine maid’s claim
that the rejection of her application for permanent residence in
the Chinese city was unconstitutional.  Judge Johnson Lam ended two and a half days of arguments
today after hearing the government’s lawyer say that Hong Kong’s
Basic Law allows lawmakers to determine the status of foreign
residents and that the maid wasn’t eligible to apply.  “The residence of foreign domestic workers is subject to
restrictions,” David Pannick told the Court of First Instance
again today.  Evangeline Banao Vallejos, who has lived in Hong Kong since
1986, challenged the rejection of her application, with her
lawyer asking the court why other expatriates such as bankers or
cooks can apply for permanent residence after living in the city
continuously for seven years.  “Foreign domestic workers are the same as other foreign
employees,” Vallejos’ lawyer Gladys Li said yesterday. “And
their employment conditions are similar to expatriate bankers,
too, as both may return to their home countries at their
employers’ expense every two years.”  Public Resource Strain?  A victory for Vallejos would open the door for Hong Kong’s
300,000 foreign maids to apply for permanent-resident status if
they meet the seven-year residency requirement, something at
least three political parties in Hong Kong have said  would
strain  health care, education and public housing resources.  “There is no basis in the plain language for saying that
some groups have to satisfy a higher bar and certainly nothing
that says some groups cannot qualify at all,” said Li referring
to the Basic Law provisions related to residence rights.  Pannick said yesterday this implied that lawmakers have no
role in interpreting the Basic Law.  “We submit that the article must be read in context and
that it does confer limited power on the legislature to
determine this matter” of ordinary or extraordinary residence,
he said.  Hong Kong’s population is 95 percent ethnic Chinese,
according to the most recent  census data  from 2006. Permanent
residence rights include voting, setting up a business, and
applying for spouses and other family members to move to Hong
Kong.  The case is Vallejos Evangeline Banao, also known as
Vallejos Evangeline B. and Commissioner of Registration,
HCAL124/2010 in Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Garvey in Hong Kong at 
 bgarvey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  