-- 
Tony Hayward Gets a Life Post-BP as Investors Write Blank Check

-- B y   J e r e m y   K a h n
-- 
2011-08-24T23:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/tony-hayward-gets-a-life-post-bp-as-investors-write-blank-check.html
One of the best moments of  Tony Hayward ’s 28-year career with oil giant  BP Plc (BP/)  came before dawn
on Christmas 1982.  Hayward says he was aboard a freezing oil platform in the
middle of the North Sea as the rig’s drill struck oil. The
Miller field was the first major find for Hayward, then a 25-
year-old geology Ph.D. from the University of Edinburgh. It
became one of BP’s most productive North Sea assets, yielding
345 million barrels of oil over its lifetime, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its October issue.  The worst moments of Hayward’s BP career are far better
known. On April 20, 2010, BP’s Macondo well in the Gulf of
Mexico exploded, killing 11 workers on the Deepwater Horizon oil
platform and unleashing the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S.
history.  The disaster erased more than $100 billion from BP’s market
value in two months, and the company took a $41 billion charge
against income to cover fines, cleanup costs and compensation to
Gulf fishermen and property owners.  Macondo also cost Hayward his job as BP’s chief executive
officer following a string of public relations fiascoes that
included his saying “I would like my life back” to a group of
reporters while touring an oil-slicked beach in Louisiana.  Reputation Fouled  While Hayward’s reputation in the U.S. is as fouled as some
Gulf Coast beaches were after the spill, he still is welcome in
the oil patch. “People know he was the scapegoat, he was the
sacrificial lamb,” says Fadel Gheit, an oil and gas analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co.  Now, Hayward, 54, is getting his life back. A year after
leaving BP, he’s again at the helm of a publicly traded company.
He teamed up with financier  Nathaniel Rothschild , scion of the
banking family, to create Vallares Plc, a shell company that
raised 1.33 billion pounds ($2.15 billion) through an initial
public offering on the  London  Stock Exchange on June 17.  Hayward also serves on the board of TNK-BP International
Ltd., BP’s fractious Russian joint venture. Glencore
International Plc, the mining and commodities-trading company
that went public in London and  Hong Kong  in May, raising $10.3
billion, named him its senior nonexecutive director.  And Hayward advises AEA Investors LLC, a New York-based
private-equity firm that manages $5 billion in investments, and
Numis Securities Ltd., a London investment bank, on energy
companies.  Help Wanted  The International Energy Agency forecasts an average price
of $103 per barrel during the next five years compared with $79
per barrel for the past five, and experienced executives such as
Hayward are in demand.  “High-quality people are not easy to come by,” says
 Christine Tiscareno , an oil and gas analyst at  Standard & Poor’s 
in London.  Hayward says he hopes to re-create the excitement he felt
in the early years of his BP career at Vallares, which is
seeking oil industry acquisitions in emerging markets.  “I am a geologist, and that remains very much in my blood,”
he says in an interview. “I love the exploration end of the
business.”  As he works to restore his reputation, Hayward may be
courting new risks. Vallares, the company he founded with
Rothschild, 40, is a so-called blank-check company: It had no
assets when it went public. Such firms have stirred controversy
by allowing less-than-transparent emerging-markets companies to
obtain stock exchange listings in London and the U.S.  Environmentalists Snicker  Given BP’s environmental record, environmentalists are
snickering about Hayward’s role at Glencore, whose prospectus
included reports of water pollution, hazardous dust and toxic
clouds at its mines. Hayward was named to the Glencore board’s
health, safety and environment committee.  “It is ironic in many ways,” says Craig Bennett, director
of policy and campaigns at Friends of the Earth UK.  Charlie Kronick, senior climate adviser for Greenpeace
U.K., says, “These are industries that are increasingly
operating at the edge, and when you operate at the edge, there
is a good chance you’ll fall off.”  Hayward says Vallares plans to target companies in such
places as  Russia , Latin America, Africa and the  Middle East . He
says the most likely candidates are privately owned, family-
controlled companies that lack the ability to raise capital or
attract talent.  Emerging-Markets Opportunity  “For an emerging-market company, privately owned, to come
to the London market is a three- or four-year process with no
guarantee of success,” Hayward says. “So to have the opportunity
to merge with the sort of thing we’ve created can be very
attractive.”  Joining Hayward and Rothschild are Julian Metherell, 48,
former co-head of U.K. investment banking at  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , and Tom Daniel, 46, a  fund manager  who helped Rothschild
start an earlier company. The four partners have committed £100
million of their own money to the project.  In reverse mergers, a shell company uses its stock to buy
an operating company. It winds up with the assets, but the
target company’s shareholders gain a controlling interest in the
former shell company’s shares.  In the U.S., the Securities and Exchange Commission has
 warned  that reverse mergers allow foreign businesses to bypass
the usual listing requirements.  ‘Less-Quality Companies’  “It only makes sense to go the reverse-merger route if
there is a reason you could not go the traditional route,” says
William Sjostrom, a professor at the University of Arizona’s law
school who has written about blank-check companies and reverse
mergers. “That means an underwriter looked under the hood and
said no, so you are getting less-quality companies.”  Vallares is modeled on Vallar Plc, a blank-check company
Rothschild founded with James Campbell, a veteran mining
executive, and took public on the London Stock Exchange in the
summer of 2010, raising £707 million. In its prospectus, Vallar
said only that it intended to acquire a company in base metals,
 iron ore  or coal mining.  “There are not many people in the world who can raise a
billion dollars and say, ‘Hey, we’ll tell you what it’s for
later,’ but Nat Rothschild is one of them,” says  Richard Knights ,
an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London, who follows the
company.  Bakrie’s Door to Listing  Four months after going public, Vallar acquired stakes in
two closely linked Indonesian coal-mining companies in a $3
billion reverse merger. The deal made Bakrie Group, run by the
Indonesian family of the same name, Vallar’s largest single
shareholder, with a 54.6 percent stake valued at more than $1.8
billion.  PT Bumi Resources, the Bakries’ coal-mining company, thus
became the first Indonesian company to in effect obtain a
listing on the London Stock Exchange. In July, Vallar changed
its name to Bumi Plc.  Investor interest in Hayward’s Vallares was so intense that
the company raised £328 million more than planned. For Hayward,
it was a heartening vote of confidence after his ignominious
departure from BP. “We are quite pleased with the support we’ve
received,” he says. Schroders Plc, the British asset management
firm, bought 6.5 percent of Vallares shares, while Lloyds
Banking Group Plc bought 6 percent, according to company
filings.  Growing Issuance  Investors in London and  New York  are showing a growing
appetite for blank-check companies. Last year, there were seven
such IPOs in London, up from none in 2009.  As of mid-August, there have been four this year, including
Justice Holdings Ltd., a shell company backed by Pershing Square
Capital Management LP’s Bill Ackman, among others. The company
raised £900 million in February, without even specifying which
industry it would focus on for an acquisition.  In the U.S., 14 such companies have gone public as of mid-
August, compared with seven in all of 2010 and just one in 2009,
according to SPAC Investments Ltd., a research firm based in
Turks and Caicos that specializes in blank-check companies.  With his focus on emerging markets, Hayward risks tying up
with a company that isn’t used to Western standards of
governance.  Among the companies Vallares has begun discussions with
about an acquisition is Genel Enerji AS, a Turkish company with
oil fields in northern Iraq, according to a person familiar with
the matter.  FSA Fine  The British Financial Services Authority fined Genel CEO
Mehmet Sepil £967,000 in February 2010 for insider trading
involving a previous attempt to sell the company to U.K.-based
Heritage Oil Plc. (Sepil admitted making the trades but said he
didn’t know doing so was illegal, according to a company
statement.) Vallares has also looked at buying stakes in Russian
oil companies  Bashneft OAO (BANE)  and NK RussNeft OAO, both partially
owned by AFK Sistema, the company controlled by billionaire
Vladimir Evtushenkov. Vallares declined to comment on the
potential deals.  Hayward also should be concerned about potential pitfalls
at Glencore, says Karina Litvack, head of governance and
sustainable investment at F&C Asset Management Ltd. in London.  “The company faces a challenge in gaining the trust of the
outside world in terms of its governance and sustainability
record,” Litvack says. Conflicts of interest could arise between
Vallares and Glencore because both companies are looking for
investments in the same sector, she says.  Link to Glencore  In addition, Rothschild is a major Glencore bondholder as
well as a friend of Glencore CEO Ivan Glasenberg. “Nat
Rothschild is friendly with half the world,” Hayward says with a
chuckle. “If there ever was a conflict, I would recuse myself,
obviously.” Rothschild declined requests for an interview.  Hayward’s background contrasts with that of his business
partner. The eldest of seven children, Hayward was born in
Slough, an industrial town just west of London. His father was a
midlevel manager in a textile mill; his mother, an administrator
at Britain’s National Health Service. He attended state schools
and earned his undergraduate degree from Aston University in
Birmingham.  Hayward’s big break at BP came in 1990, when John Browne,
the company’s head of exploration and production and later its
CEO, tapped him to be a Turtle -- a name derived from the
cartoon Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. Selected in pairs each
year, the Turtles served as Browne’s aides-de-camp, standing at
his elbow as he negotiated multibillion-dollar deals as well as
making sure that his office was stocked with El Rey del Mundo
Cuban cigars and bottles of Montrachet.  Fast Track for Turtles  After this apprenticeship, the Turtles were fast-tracked
through the BP hierarchy. Hayward was steadily promoted,
becoming chief of BP’s exploration and production division, the
company’s main profit driver, in 2003.  In 2007, when Browne resigned after becoming embroiled in a
scandal involving his personal life, the board unanimously chose
Hayward to replace him. Compared with the Cambridge-educated
Browne, Hayward was perceived by colleagues as down-to-earth and
self-effacing, several people who worked with him said. He
turned Browne’s office suite into a conference room and replaced
the modern art adorning the hallways with photographs of BP
service stations, oil rigs and refineries.  The difference was more than cosmetic.  “He was very focused on doing business and thought BP was
too focused on being political and going into the outside
world,” Nick Butler, a former group vice president at BP, says
of Hayward. “It was a mistake: A company BP’s size has to be
political, with a small p.”  Safety Flaws  Browne had concentrated on megamergers and branding BP with
his “beyond petroleum” campaign. Toward the end of his tenure,
though, BP was plagued by costly project delays and safety and
maintenance flaws. A blast at BP’s refinery in Texas City,
Texas, killed 15 people and injured more than 170 in 2005.  That same year, BP’s Thunder Horse production platform in
the  Gulf of Mexico  developed a severe list due to a defective
control system. In 2006, BP was forced to stop pumping oil from
its Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska after oil leaked from a corroded
pipeline.  Hayward closed the separate office Browne had established
for BP’s renewable-energy division and pushed BP into Canadian
oil sands. He fired 6,500 workers, or about 10 percent of BP’s
workforce. In speeches and interviews, Hayward said he wanted to
improve BP’s safety record and strive for operational
excellence.  BP’s share price on the London Stock Exchange rebounded 16
percent from the time Hayward became CEO through April 20, 2010
-- the day the Deepwater Horizon exploded.  ‘Hit by a Bus’  The disaster thrust Hayward into a role for which he was
ill prepared, according to a friend who also worked at BP.
Hayward was uncomfortable speaking in front of crowds and on
camera, says the friend, who asked not to be named. Hayward
himself struck a philosophical pose about the disaster.  “Sometimes you step off the pavement and get hit by a
bus,” he told reporters while announcing his resignation.
Hayward refused to answer questions about his departure for this
story.  Whether Vallares is a success will depend on which company
it acquires. Oil fields have been garnering sky-high prices as
national oil companies from  China ,  India  and Russia expand. In
October 2010, China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as
Sinopec, purchased 40 percent of the Brazilian arm of Spanish
oil company Repsol YPF SA for $7.1 billion -- more than $2
billion above analysts’ consensus estimate of the stake’s value.  ‘Froth in the Market’  “He ought to be very careful what he buys at this point,”
says Iain Armstrong, an oil and gas analyst at U.K. investment
adviser Brewin Dolphin Holdings Plc. “There’s a little bit of
froth in the market.” Even after August’s market declines, he
says, emerging-markets oil companies aren’t bargains and slowing
world economies mean that they’re riskier than before.  Hayward says he’s confident that Vallares will find an
acquisition at a fair price. “We are not going to get involved
in cash auctions,” he says.  Hayward isn’t the first oil executive to try using an
investment vehicle to remake a battered reputation. Walter van de Vijver resigned as head of exploration and production at
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in 2004 after the company admitted to
lying about its reserves. A London-based energy investment fund
that van de Vijver then founded flopped.  A second company, Delta Hydrocarbons BV, secured private-
equity backing and bought into oil fields in the North Sea,
Hungary and Argentina before van de Vijver was forced out in a
boardroom coup in 2009.  Macondo’s Ghost  The ghost of Macondo still dogs Hayward. In May, travelers
muttered about the disaster as they watched Hayward being
escorted through an immigration line at New York’s Kennedy
Airport, according to a Bloomberg Markets reporter who saw the
incident.  He’s a defendant in two consolidated class-action lawsuits
in the U.S. resulting from Macondo, which could cost BP $6
billion, according to a Citigroup Inc. estimate. U.S.
Representative Michael Burgess, a Texas Republican who ripped into
Hayward on June 17, 2010, during Hayward’s Congressional
testimony on the spill, says, “I don’t think the time is right
for rehabilitation.”  Yet the demand for experienced oil and gas hands is such
that reincarnation is always possible. In 2009, Indian energy
company Reliance Industries hired van de Vijver to run its
overseas exploration and production business. So, win or lose
with Vallares, Hayward is likely to have plenty more chances to
get his life back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Kahn in London at 
 jkahn21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net . 