-- 
Moody’s Said to Be in Final Talks on Whether to Downgrade Japanese Banks

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-08-24T03:16:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/moody-s-said-to-be-in-final-talks-on-whether-to-downgrade-japanese-banks.html
Moody’s Investors Service is in
final discussions on whether to downgrade  Japan ’s biggest banks
after lowering the country’s sovereign debt rating today, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Bank units of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  are
among lenders being examined for a possible rating cut, said the
person, who asked not to be identified before a decision. The
U.S. company said on May 31 it had begun a review of Japanese
banks’ credit ratings, along with the sovereign’s.  Moody’s lowered Japan’s grade by one step to Aa3 today,
citing “weak” economic growth prospects that will make it
difficult to rein in the world’s largest public debt. Worsening
public finances may make it harder for the government to support
lenders in times of financial trouble, Moody’s said in May.  Profitability of banks in Japan has been hampered by 20
straight months of declines in loans as a shrinking economy
plagued by deflation weakens demand for credit. To fill the
lending void, banks have been buying the country’s debt,  holding 
154.3 trillion yen ($2 trillion) of  government securities  in
June, close to a record 158.8 trillion yen reached in April.  Financial shares paced declines on the Tokyo Stock Exchange
this morning. Mitsubishi UFJ, the country’s biggest publicly
traded bank, dropped 2.3 percent to 334 yen at the 11 a.m. break.
Sumitomo Mitsui declined 0.8 percent. Mizuho was unchanged. The
benchmark Topix stock index slipped 0.2 percent.  Shield Taxpayers  Japanese banks’ credit ratings and share prices may slide
as global regulators consider measures that seek to avoid the
use of public funds to support lenders, Junsuke Senoguchi, an
analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., wrote
in a report last week. Under draft proposals made by the
Financial Stability Board last month, creditors would share a
greater burden following a bank’s collapse to shield taxpayers.  The board’s stance underscores that “the trend is for
government support to weaken,” Minoru Kubota, managing director
of financial institutions at Moody’s in  Tokyo , said last week.
He didn’t answer a phone call made to his office today.  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., the main lending unit of
Mitsubishi UFJ, has a long-term debt rating of Aa2 at Moody’s.
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. is also Aa2, the third-highest
investment grade, while the two banking units of Mizuho --
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. and Mizuho Bank Ltd. -- are Aa3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  