-- 
Moody’s Cuts Japanese Bank Ratings

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-08-24T08:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/moody-s-cuts-japanese-bank-ratings-after-sovereign-downgrade.html
Japanese banks’ credit ratings were
cut by Moody’s Investors Service on concern that weaker public
finances will reduce the government’s ability to support lenders
in times of crisis.  Bank units of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  were
among lenders that had their ratings lowered one step by Moody’s
after it cut the government’s grade earlier today.  The downgrades “primarily reflect the combined impact of
the change in the rating of the government of  Japan  -- as a
supporting entity -- and Moody’s reduced assumptions for
government support to the banking system in a stress scenario,”
the U.S. ratings company said in a statement today.  Profitability of banks in Japan has been hampered by 20
straight months of declines in loans as a shrinking economy
plagued by deflation weakens demand for credit. To fill the
lending void, banks have been buying the country’s debt,  holding 
154.3 trillion yen ($2 trillion) of  government securities  in
June, close to a record 158.8 trillion yen reached in April.  Financial shares extended declines after the downgrades.
Mitsubishi UFJ, the country’s biggest publicly traded bank, fell
2.9 percent to 332 yen at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo.  Sumitomo
Mitsui  declined 1.8 percent. Mizuho lost 0.9 percent. The
benchmark Topix stock index slipped 1.1 percent.  Fourth Highest  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., the main lending unit of
Mitsubishi UFJ, had its debt rating lowered to Aa3, the fourth-
highest investment grade, as did Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp.  Mizuho’s two banking units -- Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.
and Mizuho Bank Ltd. -- were cut to A1, the fifth highest. They
remain on review for further possible downgrade, Moody’s said.  The cut to Japan’s debt grade was the first by Moody’s
since 2002 and reflects deteriorating  credit quality  across
developed nations from  Italy  to the U.S., which lost its AAA
status at Standard & Poor’s this month.  “There is an increasing risk that the government’s
capacity to provide support to banks in a future crisis has
diminished,” Moody’s said. “Under conditions of extreme stress,
the authorities will become increasingly selective in their
distribution of support, with a bias in favor of the most
systemically important banks.”  Japanese banks’ credit ratings and share prices may drop as
global regulators consider measures that seek to avoid the use
of public funds to support lenders, Junsuke Senoguchi, an
analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., wrote
in a report last week. Under draft proposals made by the
Financial Stability Board last month, creditors would share a
greater burden following a bank’s collapse to shield taxpayers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  