-- 
Orders for U.S. Durable Goods Rose in July on Planes, Autos

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-08-24T21:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/orders-for-durable-goods-in-u-s-increase-4-twice-as-much-as-estimated.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
climbed more than forecast in July as a surge in demand for
aircraft and autos eclipsed a decrease in business equipment,
including computers and machinery.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years rose
4 percent, the most in four months, after falling a revised 1.3
percent in June, a Commerce Department report showed today in
Washington. The median projection of 81 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 2 percent gain. Orders excluding the
volatile transportation category, unexpectedly advanced 0.7
percent.  Automakers last month rebounded from the slump caused by
the Japanese earthquake, while some manufacturers like  Deere &
Co. (DE)  continued benefit from growing sales in emerging markets.
Nonetheless, regional factory surveys have shown demand plunged
in August as concern over the European debt crisis mounted and
stocks retreated, indicating the outlook may have since dimmed.  “It’s going to take time before businesses become
comfortable about investing and hiring,” said  Ryan Sweet ,
senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . “The improvement in July appears to be narrowly
based.”  Home Prices   Other reports today showed mixed readings for residential
real estate. Home prices in the U.S. increased 0.9 percent in
June from the prior month, the biggest gain since September
2005, a report from the Federal Housing Finance Agency showed.
Nonetheless, property values were down 5.9 percent in the second
quarter from the same time last year, the largest year-over-year
drop since 2009.  The number of mortgage applications fell last week as a
measure of purchases slumped to the lowest level since December
1996, a report from the  Mortgage Bankers Association  also
showed.  Stocks rose, extending the biggest Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rally in a week, after the reports on durable goods and
home prices beat forecasts and bank shares rallied. The  S&P 500 
advanced 1.3 percent to 1,177.6 at the 4 p.m. in  New York .
 Treasury securities  fell, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note up to 2.30 percent from 2.15 percent late yesterday.  Estimates for overall orders ranged from a 1 percent drop
to a 7.5 percent surge. Forecasts for bookings excluding the
volatile transportation category ranged from a decline of 1.5
percent to an increase of 1 percent.  Auto Rebound  Today’s report reflected a rebound in production at vehicle
makers following supply disruptions caused by the earthquake in
 Japan  in March. Orders for motor vehicles and parts jumped 11.5
percent, the most since January 2003.  Orders for commercial airplanes surged 43.4 percent in July
after a 24 percent slump the prior month. Chicago-based  Boeing
Co. (BA) , the world’s largest aerospace company, said it received 115
orders in July, up from 48 in June.  Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft, a
proxy for future business investment, dropped 1.5 percent, the
most in six months, after a revised 0.6 percent gain in June.  Last month’s decrease extends a pattern of declines early
in a quarter that are later reversed. Demand for non-military
capital goods like computers, engines and communications gear,
have dropped in the first month of a quarter in all but three
instances since the end of 2005.  Shipments Rise  Shipments of those items, used in calculating gross
domestic product, increased 0.2 percent after rising a revised
1.9 percent the prior month that was more than previously
estimated.  Recent data showed manufacturing slowed in August. New
York-region factories shrank for a third straight month and
manufacturing in the Philadelphia area contracted by the most
since March 2009, when the economy was in recession.  The  Federal Reserve  Bank of Richmond yesterday said its
business activity index dropped to minus 10 in August, the
weakest since June 2009, from minus 1 as orders contracted.  Any additional weakening in manufacturing would be more of
a concern as much of the growth in the second quarter came from
corporate investment and trade as  consumer spending  stagnated.  Round Rock, Texas-based  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the second-largest
personal-computer maker, reduced sales projections for this
year, citing uncertain demand and slower spending on PCs and
consumer technology.  ‘Uncertain’ Demand  “It’s clear that the demand environment is weaker and a
bit more uncertain,” Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden said
on a conference call Aug. 16. The U.S. consumer business “has
gotten weaker for sure,” and federal contracts are taking
longer to close, while markets like  China  and India are growing,
he said.  Overseas sales remain a backstop for some manufacturers.
Deere, the world’s largest farm-equipment maker, reported fiscal
third-quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates and raised
its full-year earnings forecast. Deere, based in Moline,
Illinois, is introducing new products and expanding in countries
like China, Russia and India.  The Federal Reserve’s policy-setting committee on Aug. 9
pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate  near zero until at
least mid-2013. Growth is “considerably slower” than
anticipated, the FOMC said in a statement. Officials “discussed
the range of policy tools” available and are “prepared to
employ those tools as appropriate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  