-- 
Tottenham Secures Adebayor Loan Deal, the Sun Reports: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-08-24T10:09:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/tottenham-secures-adebayor-loan-deal-the-sun-reports-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Adebayor to Spurs  Manchester City  striker Emmanuel Adebayor will be loaned to
Tottenham later today, the  Sun  reported.  The former Arsenal player makes 170,000 pounds ($280,840) a
week, the newspaper said. Tottenham last night agreed to pay “a
larger percentage” of his wages than the London club had
initially wanted to spend.  Adebayor’s move may prompt the exit of Tottenham’s Peter Crouch, with Queens Park Rangers and Fulham both interested in
the England international, the paper said.  Chelsea Chasing Pereira  Chelsea has put a 20 million euro ($29 million) bid in for
Porto wing-back  Alvaro Pereira , the  Daily Telegraph  reported.
Pereira has a 30 million buyout clause in his contract, the
paper said.  QPR in New Bid for Parker  Queens Park Rangers has made a new 5 million-pound offer
for West Ham’s  Scott Parker , the  Daily Mail  said. West Ham is
asking 8 million pounds for the player, the paper said.  QPR’s new owner Tony Fernandes wants to sign three top
players for the Premier League team. Newcastle United midfielder
Joey Barton, Manchester City’s Nedum Onuoha and  Aston Villa ’s
Luke Young are on the list of possible signings, the paper
reported.  United Hijacking Nasri Deal?  Manchester United may scupper a 24 million-pound deal
between Arsenal’s Samir Nasri and Manchester City that was
announced yesterday, the  Daily Mail  reported.  United is “closely monitoring the situation” in the hope
of landing the midfielder themselves, the paper said.  Gibson to Villa?  Aston Villa has offered 3.5 million pounds for  Manchester
United  midfielder  Darron Gibson , the  Daily Mail  reported. Gibson
saw a transfer to Sunderland fall through last month. The
Ireland international wants to leave Old Trafford following the
emergence of players such as Tom Cleverley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 