-- 
Tottenham Wins the Right to Challenge Over London Olympic Stadium Ruling

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-08-24T17:04:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/tottenham-seeks-to-continue-legal-fight-over-olympic-stadium.html
Tottenham Hotspur Football Club won
the right to challenge the decision to give West Ham United use
of the 2012 Olympic Stadium after the games.  A London judge ruled following a hearing today that
Tottenham could proceed with the so-called judicial review, a
court official said. Tottenham lawyer Dinah Rose told the court
that the Olympic Park Legacy Company’s choice was “unlawful”
because West Ham’s bid had received state aid in the form of a
loan from Newham Council.  Both clubs applied for permission to move into the stadium
after the completion of the London  Olympic Games  next year.
Tottenham will argue its case at the  High Court  later when a
judge will make the final decision on whether to allow a full
judicial review.  Tottenham, the Premier League team whose bid was rejected
by the Olympic Park Legacy Company, has already had one
application for a review rejected.  The Olympic Park Legacy Company, which awarded the stadium
to West ham, said July 1 it had suspended an employee after it
was discovered she worked as a consultant for West Ham during
the bidding process.  Judicial reviews in the U.K. examine the decisions of public
agencies. While an authority may be ordered to reconsider an
action, it may later be allowed to draw the same conclusion
provided all procedures are correctly followed.  The cases are the Queen of the application of  Tottenham
Hotspur Plc (TTNM)  v. London Borough of Newham, No.  CO/3393/2011,
Queen’s  Bench Division ,  Administrative Court ; and the Queen on
the application of Tottenham Hotspur Plc v. Olympic Legacy
Company Limited, CO/4225/2011, Queen’s Bench Division,
Administrative Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  