-- 
HP Sues AU Optronics in U.S. Court Alleging It Fixed Prices of LCD Panels

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-08-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/hp-sues-au-optronics-in-u-s-court-alleging-it-fixed-prices-of-lcd-panels.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  accused  AU
Optronics Corp. (AUO)  in a lawsuit of conspiring to fix prices of
thin-film transistor liquid crystal display panels, according to
a court filing.  A complaint for damages alleging violations of antitrust
laws was filed under seal to conceal from HP’s competitors
confidential information about the company’s process for
procuring LCD panels, according to a document filed Aug. 19 in
federal court in San Francisco by Jun Kim, an HP vice president
and general manager for the displays business unit.  AUO and others conspired “to fix the prices of” LCD
panels, HP said in a document relating its complaint to a
pending group case filed against LCD makers on behalf of
purchasers of the screens, used in personal computers,
televisions and mobile devices.  Yawen Hsiao, a spokeswoman for AUO, wasn’t immediately
aware of the complaint when contacted by phone yesterday. She
declined to comment further.  HP is one of AUO’s largest clients, providing the PC maker
with panels used in laptops and computer monitors.  AUO,  Taiwan ’s second-largest maker of LCDs, and six of its
executives were indicted last year for allegedly conspiring to
fix prices of flat-panel screens sold worldwide, the Justice
Department said in June 2010. The conspiracy ran from 2001 to
2006, the agency said. Apple Inc., Dell Inc. and HP were among
the companies directly affected by the alleged scheme, the
agency said.  AUO, based in Hsinchu, Taiwan, said at the time “the facts
of the case do not warrant such charges.”  The case is Hewlett-Packard Co. v.  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) , 11-
4116, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in San Francisco at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  