-- 
Perry Takes Lead Among Republican Candidates in Gallup Poll

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-08-25T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/perry-ahead-of-romney-in-poll-of-republicans.html
Texas  Governor Rick Perry has moved
ahead of his Republican rivals seeking the party’s presidential
nomination less than two weeks after he entered the race, a
Gallup poll shows.  Perry, 61, received support from 29 percent of Republicans
and Republican-leaning independents in the nationwide  poll  taken
Aug. 17-21 with a margin of error of four percentage points.  Among candidates now in the race, the poll showed former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney at 17 percent, followed by
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas at 13 percent. Representative
 Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , who won the Aug. 13  Iowa  Straw
Poll of Republican activists, was at 10 percent in the poll.  “Perry is a strong contender among key Republican
subgroups,” Gallup stated in a report on its findings. “Older
Republicans and those living in the South show especially strong
support for him, at or near 40 percent. Conservative Republicans
strongly favor Perry over Romney, but liberal and moderate
Republicans support the two about equally. Perry’s support is
also above average among religious Republicans.”  Prior to this poll, Romney has led in most national surveys
of Republicans. He also leads in fund-raising among Republicans
seeking to challenge President Barack Obama in 2012, after
raising $18.3 million during the second quarter.  Palin Standing  When former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, a potential late
entrant to the field, is added to the mix, Perry still leads
with 25 percent, followed by Romney at 14 percent. Palin, the
2008 Republican vice presidential candidate, finishes third at
11 percent, tied with Paul.  Gallup also tested for former New York City Mayor  Rudy Giuliani , who ran for president in 2008 and is also considering
a 2012 bid. He finished behind Palin and Paul, with 9 percent.  Palin, who has said she probably will announce her
intentions by the end of September, cuts into Bachmann’s
support. The congresswoman drops to 7 percent with Palin in the
field.  Perry, the longest-serving U.S. governor and an early Tea
Party supporter, announced his presidential bid on Aug. 13.
Since then, he has been traveling through Iowa,  New Hampshire 
and  South Carolina  -- states that will hold the first nominating
contests early next year -- as he also boosts his fund-raising.  Although Perry has never lost a political campaign in
almost three decades in elective office, he has created some
distractions in the early days of his presidential bid.  He said on Aug. 15 that things could get “ugly” for
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in Texas if he tried
additional, “almost treasonous,” monetary stimulus before the
next presidential election. Such comments have raised questions
about whether his rhetoric will undercut his political
aspirations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  