-- 
Peru Hit by Magnitude-7.0 Earthquake, U.S. Agency Says

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-08-24T21:04:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/peru-hit-by-magnitude-6-9-earthquake-u-s-agency-says.html
A magnitude-7.0 earthquake rattled
most of  Peru  today without causing any casualties or major
damages, companies and government spokesmen said.  The  quake  struck about 354 miles north-northeast of the
capital, Lima, at 1:46 p.m. New York time in Peru’s Amazon
region, the U.S. Geological Service reported on its website. The
temblor occurred at a depth of about 90 miles and was followed
by a magnitude-5.3 temblor an hour later, the USGS said.  “Large earthquakes like that typically have a good number
of aftershocks,” USGS spokesman John Bellini said in a
telephone interview.  Telephone and mobile phone services were functioning
intermittently in Peru following the quake, which shook office
buildings in the capital and forced companies to evacuate their
personnel. Civil Defense director Alberto Bisbal said no
casualties or damages were reported near the epicenter in the
northern jungle.  Northern Andean  gold mines  operated by  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) 
and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , and Argentine oil company Pluspetrol
SA’s northern jungle oilfields weren’t damaged by the quake,
spokesmen for the companies said.  Maple Energy Plc (MPLE) ’s oil
refinery in the northeastern jungle city of Pucallpa is
operating normally, General Manager Guillermo Ferreyros said in
e-mailed comments.  Region, APEC  The earthquake was also felt in neighboring Andean
countries Ecuador and Bolivia, according to Spanish news agency
Efe. No damages or casualties were reported in either country.  Business leaders from the  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation 
trading bloc will propose the creation of a fund to tackle
natural disasters to leaders at the November Apec summit in
Hawaii, Juan Francisco Raffo, head of Apec’s business consulting
group, said today at a meeting in Lima.  “A fund is necessary to face natural disasters, after
seeing what happened in  Japan  and the earthquake yesterday in
Washington,” Raffo told reporters. “We should bear in mind
that four years after Peru’s August 2007 quake, the area still
hasn’t been rebuilt.”  A magnitude-9.0 quake near the coast of Japan in March and
subsequent tsunami left more than 20,000 people dead or missing.  Peru, where half the population of 30 million lives on $1 a
day, has suffered three destructive earthquakes in the past
decade, including a 8.0 quake in August 2007 that killed 525
people and left 200,000 homeless on the south coast. Peru is
Latin America’s seventh-largest economy.  A 5.8-magnitude earthquake centered in Virginia rocked the
U.S. East Coast yesterday, damaging buildings in Washington
including the Washington National Cathedral and the Washington
Monument while also disrupting trains, flights and nuclear power
plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Emery  in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  