-- 
Libya Rebels Offer $1.7 Million Bounty, Amnesty as They Search for Qaddafi

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r ,   C h r i s   S t e p h e n   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-08-24T23:03:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/qaddafi-vows-martyrdom-or-victory-as-libyan-opposition-intensifies-search.html
Libyan rebels pressed offers of a
$1.7 million reward and amnesty for any regime loyalist who
delivers  Muammar Qaddafi  to them dead or alive.  Rebels said they were meeting little resistance yesterday
as they closed in on Qaddafi’s coastal hometown of Sirte amid a
broad hunt for the Libyan leader, while his loyalists shelled
towns in the south. The search for Qaddafi intensified as rebels
battled pockets of his supporters in Tripoli after claiming most
of the capital Aug. 23, including his Bab Al Aziziya compound.  “We are witnessing the death throes of the Qaddafi
regime,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told reporters in
London yesterday. “It is time now for Colonel Qaddafi to stop
issuing delusional statements and to recognize that that has
happened, that control of the country is not going to return. He
should be telling his dwindling and remaining forces now to
stand down.”  Rebel spokesman Colonel Ahmed Bani said the rebel
leadership has promised amnesty for anyone who kills him or
hands over Qaddafi, according to the  Associated Press . The
chairman of the rebels’ National Transitional Council, Mustafa Abdel Jalil, said the rebel leadership supports the initiative
by a group of businessmen in Tripoli offering the 2 million
dinar bounty on Qaddafi, according to  Agence France-Presse .  ‘The Revolution Has Won’  “The revolution has won and the only thing left is for
Qaddafi to be captured or killed at the hands of the
revolutionaries,” Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, a council member, said in
a telephone interview from Benghazi.  Opposition forces raised their flag over Qaddafi’s compound
Aug. 23 after weeks of stalemate in the six-month conflict. He
vowed “martyrdom” or victory, calling on his supporters to
“cleanse” Tripoli of “rats” in a recording aired early
yesterday by a local radio station, Al Arabiya television
reported.  The conflict has all but halted oil exports from  Libya ,
which has the largest proven reserves of any African country.
Output dropped to 100,000 barrels a day in July, down from the
1.6 million barrels pumped before the uprising started.  Brent gained 25 percent to $126.65 a barrel in the first
two months of the conflict. While it tumbled as much as 3.2
percent on Aug. 22 as anti-government forces declared an end to
Qaddafi’s 42-year rule, it has since rebounded 3.8 percent.  Oil Markets  Brent gained 84 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $110.15 a barrel
on London’s ICE Futures Europe Exchange yesterday after trading
as high as $111. West Texas Intermediate oil, the U.S. benchmark
grade that is less sensitive to overseas production, slipped 28
cents to settle at $85.16 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
based on the October contract. Prices are up 20 percent over the
past year.  Qaddafi’s deputy head of intelligence, Khalifa Mohamed Ali,
said he defected to join the opposition. Ali, speaking on Al
Arabiya, said he didn’t have any information on Qaddafi’s
location and isn’t in touch with him.  Josh Earnest , a White House spokesman, told reporters in
 Martha’s Vineyard ,  Massachusetts , where President  Barack Obama 
is vacationing, that there is “no evidence to indicate”
Qaddafi has left Libya.  “Our fight in Libya, as a Libyan people, is not over
yet,” Mahmoud Jibril, the rebel council’s prime minister, said
in Paris yesterday after meeting with President Nicholas Sarkozy.      “Qaddafi’s forces are still relentlessly shelling
some of the south’s cities,” and “many of the pockets and the
remnants of the regime are still carrying out shootings and
assassinations even in the streets of Tripoli.”  Transition Period  Rebels started negotiating Aug. 23 with tribal leaders in
Sirte for “safe entry” to the city without fighting as many of
Qaddafi’s forces left to head south, Fathi Baja, a rebel-council
member, said by phone yesterday from the eastern city of
Benghazi. No results have been reached yet, he said. Rebels
control more than 85 percent of Tripoli, according to Baja.  With their recent battleground gains, rebel leaders have
started taking steps to begin a transition period. Council
Chairman Abdel Jalil has said he was sending a delegation to
Tripoli to prepare for the body’s move from Benghazi to the
capital in the west. He told Italian newspaper la Republica that
Libya will be ready to hold democratic elections within eight
months.  Hunting for Qaddafi  A group of council members will head to Tripoli on Aug. 26,
and the rebels have already set up a “security operations
room” to direct the hunt for Qaddafi and his sons and “secure
the city’s entrances,” Baja said.  “It will take a few days or a week to liberate all of
Libya, including the south,” Baja said. “Qaddafi will win only
in his dreams. If he wants martyrdom, let him seek martyrdom.”  Foreign journalists held by armed men at the capital’s
Rixos Hotel were freed yesterday and taken by the  Red Cross  to
another hotel,  Al Arabiya  television said.  Four Italian journalists were kidnapped yesterday near
Zawiyah, just west of Tripoli, according to the Italian news
agency ANSA.  Sarkozy, at a joint news conference with Jibril, called
yesterday for an international conference to be held in Paris on
Sept. 1 with the aim of releasing frozen Libya funds. Jibril
said the funds are needed to begin reconstruction.  Unfreezing Assets  Sarkozy said  France  is ready to provide medical aid to
Libya and will continue to have a military presence there “as
long as our Libyan friends need it.”  The U.S. is working to release as much as $1.5 billion of
frozen Libyan assets in the U.S., State Department spokeswoman
Victoria Nuland said at a briefing in  Washington .  Arab foreign ministers meeting in Doha Aug. 23 called on
the  United Nations Security Council  to permit the release of
$2.5 billion in frozen Libyan assets to be used to meet
humanitarian needs before the holiday of Eid al-Fitr in a week,
marking the end of the Muslim fasting period of Ramadan.  A total of about $165 billion in Libyan government assets
has been frozen worldwide.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  