-- 
Qantas Bond Risk Reaches One-Year Low Following Job Cuts: Australia Credit

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-08-25T05:07:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/qantas-risk-hits-one-year-low-after-job-cuts-australia-credit.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  is being
rewarded in the debt markets for cutting jobs and switching its
focus to  Asia  as the cost of insuring the bonds of Australia’s
biggest airline falls relative to global peers.  Credit-default swaps on Qantas were at 269 basis points
yesterday, CMA prices show. The contracts were 330 basis points
cheaper than a gauge of global airline debt on Aug. 22, the
steepest discount since July 2010, according to data from CMA
and Bloomberg. Qantas’ bond risk touched a five-month high
relative to peers in July on rising fuel costs and weaker demand
after natural disasters.  Qantas, which is paring flights to  Europe  and setting up
two new Asian carriers to revive international operations,
reported full-year profit yesterday that beat its own June
forecasts. The improvement in Qantas’ bond risk contrasts with
companies including Fairfax Media Ltd. and Westfield Group,
whose default swaps have reached the highest in two years as
Australian non-mining companies struggle to cope with the
developed world’s highest benchmark borrowing costs and the
local dollar’s climb to a record.  “Their domestic business is generating a lot of money and
they’re trying to fix the international operations while still
making money,” Nachiket Moghe, an analyst at Morningstar Inc.
in Auckland, said yesterday by phone. “There is more confidence
in the way they are going with their debt load.”  Job Cuts  Qantas, BlueScope Steel Ltd. and Westpac Banking Corp.,
 Australia ’s second-biggest lender, announced job cuts this
month. The moves fueled concern the nation’s economy is
stumbling as industries outside mining fail to keep pace with
miners that are benefiting from Chinese and Indian demand for
Australia’s coal,  iron ore  and wool.  Australia’s central bank raised its overnight cash-rate
target seven times in the 13 months to November 2010 to cope
with the biggest resources boom in more than a century.  Qantas said full-year pretax profit totaled A$552 million
($578 million), compared with the airline’s June forecast for
earnings of A$500 million to A$550 million. The carrier in June
agreed to a A$95 million settlement with Rolls-Royce Holdings
Plc following disruptions caused by an engine explosion on an
Airbus A380 last year. The company’s result included A$224
million of costs and lost revenue from the Japan quake in March,
the Christchurch temblor in February and  Chile ’s Puyehue-Cordon
Caulle volcanic complex, which began erupting June 4.  Natural Disasters  “Natural disasters and weather disruptions are an
unavoidable reality for the aviation industry,” Chief Executive
Officer Alan Joyce said in a statement. “However, the frequency
and severity of disruptions seen in financial year 2011 was
unprecedented.”  The airline’s $513.6 million of 6.05 percent bonds due in
April 2016 yield 369 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, up 87 basis points, or 0.87 percentage point, from
July 29, according to RBS prices. Southwest Airlines Co.’s $300
million of 5.75 percent bonds that mature in December 2016 are
offering 284 basis points more than Treasuries, up from 177 on
July 29, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Airlines will make $4 billion in profits this year on sales
of $598 billion, a margin of 0.7 percent, the  International Air
Transport Association  said in June.  Moody’s Investors Service, which cut its outlook on Qantas’
debt to “negative” on March 31, welcomed the airline’s Asian
plans.  ‘First Step’  “We view Qantas’ plan as a credit-positive and important
first step to improving its international business,” Arnon Musiker, a senior analyst at Moody’s in Sydney, said in an Aug.
22 report. “Qantas’s successful establishment of a premium
airline could substantially improve its credit profile.
According to IATA, international premium air passengers
represent 8 percent of passenger traffic but generate 26 percent
of revenue.”  Moody’s rates the airline’s debt at Baa2, its second-lowest
investment grade and the highest rating for any carrier
globally.  Standard & Poor’s  has an equivalent BBB grade on
Qantas, also with a negative outlook.  The average spread for Australian corporate bonds over
similar-maturity government debt widened to 215 basis points on
Aug. 24 from 177 on June 30, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  Global Airlines  The benchmark Markit iTraxx Australia index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, advanced to 176 basis points on Aug. 24 from
119 basis points at the end of July. An index of default-swap
contracts on the debt of airlines globally including Southwest
Airlines, Deutsche Lufthansa AG and Qantas has soared 147 basis
points this month to 589, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Contracts to insure Fairfax reached 171 basis points higher
than an index of global media companies on Aug. 22, the most
since September 2009. Westfield credit-default swaps climbed to
52.5 basis points more than the iTraxx index on Aug. 23, the
widest premium since November 2009.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens is seeking
to balance surging commodities exports to  China , which are
boosting expectations for growth and price increases, with
 consumer confidence  in its deepest slump since 2008 and a
faltering global economy.  The nation’s jobless rate unexpectedly rose to an eight-
month high in July as hiring stalled, and retail sales
unexpectedly declined in June for a second straight month,
statistics bureau data released this month show.  RBA Rates  While Australia’s central bank considered lifting borrowing
costs on Aug. 2 to control inflation, cash-rate futures indicate
policy makers will lower the benchmark by one percentage point
by year-end after Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and concern
that growth will slow in the U.S. roiled markets worldwide.  The yield on Australia’s benchmark 10-year bond rose six
basis points to 4.42 percent as of 2:52 p.m. in Sydney, below
the 4.75 percent cash rate. The notes yielded 216 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries. The yield on December
cash-rate futures rose eight basis points to 3.79 percent.  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors estimate consumer-price
gains to average 2.6 percent for the next five years, the
highest inflation expectations among eight developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  Aussie Dollar  The Australian dollar has fallen 5 percent against the U.S.
currency in August, paring its advance against the greenback in
the past 12 months to 18 percent. The so-called Aussie, the
world’s fifth-most traded currency, bought $1.0440 at 3:03 p.m.
in Sydney trading today.  Qantas said its planned Asian unit will have cabins more
luxurious than those on the group’s flagship Airbus SAS A380s in
a bid to lure fliers from Singapore Airlines Ltd.  “This will be a top premium product,” Qantas CEO Joyce
said in a Bloomberg TV interview on Aug. 19. The business-class
and economy-class cabins will both be “better than the A380s,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  