-- 
Quake Shows Need for Emergency Network, Senator’s Aide Says

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-08-24T20:57:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/quake-phone-disruptions-show-need-for-emergency-network-senate-aide-says.html
Difficulties making cell-phone calls
after yesterday’s earthquake in Virginia reinforce the need to
pass legislation creating a nationwide emergency radio network,
an aide to Senator  Jay Rockefeller  said.  Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat who chairs the Senate
Commerce Committee, is sponsoring a bill that would auction
airwaves voluntarily surrendered by television stations and use
the proceeds to help pay for a national communications network
for emergency responders.  The “earthquake is yet one more wake-up call that first
responders need a unified, dedicated communications system that
is interoperable and will work in times of emergency, like today
when cell phone coverage is over-utilized and over-whelmed,”
Vincent Morris, a spokesman for Rockefeller, said in an e-mail.  The 5.8-magnitude earthquake that rattled the U.S. East
Coast yesterday was followed by “reports of cell phone
congestion,” Federal Emergency Management Agency spokeswoman
Rachel Racusen said in an e-mail. The agency asked people to use
e-mail or text messages to communicate after the quake “so that
emergency officials can continue to receive and respond to
urgent calls,” she said.  The Federal Communications Commission is concerned by
incidents yesterday in which wireless calls to 911 numbers were
hindered by clogged mobile-phone networks, Jamie Barnett, chief
of the agency’s public safety and homeland security bureau, said
in an e-mail.  Updated 911 Services  “These are the moments when mobile phone service is needed
most -- and disruptions put lives at risk,” Barnett said. “We
are in contact with wireless carriers and public safety call
centers in affected areas to determine the cause of reported
outages in an immediate effort to identify and address the
problems.”  Barnett said the quake illustrated the need for updated 911
services that allow for text, photo and video messaging. The FCC
and FEMA are working with wireless carriers, including  Verizon
Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T) , on an emergency-alert system that would
steer government messages around network congestion to mobile-
phone users.  Verizon, AT&T and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  experienced a surge
in phone calls after the earthquake, but the companies reported
no damage to their networks.  “Wireless networks were built to survive many disasters,
such as yesterday’s earthquake,” Amy Storey, a spokeswoman for
the CTIA wireless industry trade group in Washington, said in an
e-mail. “The congestion was caused by the wireless networks
processing substantial spikes in volume.”  10th Anniversary  The emergency network envisioned in Rockefeller’s bill,
S.911, is designed to avert the communications breakdowns that
plagued emergency workers during the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
Rockefeller has urged colleagues to pass the legislation by the
10th anniversary of the attacks in  New York  and  Washington .  “When Congress returns in September, it’s critical they
immediately take up consideration of Sen. Rockefeller’s spectrum
bill because nothing’s more important than the public’s
safety,” Morris said.  The bill also would use proceeds from airwave auctions to
compensate TV station owners and apply an estimated $6.5 billion
toward deficit reduction.  The legislation, which is co-sponsored by Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of Texas, passed the Senate Commerce Committee
in a 21-4 vote on June 8. Two draft bills on public safety
networks are circulating in the House of Representatives, and
have not been formally introduced.  Local Broadcasting  “Policymakers debating spectrum policy ought to take note
that the one reliable communications service during today’s
earthquake was the original wireless technology -- free and
local broadcasting,”  Dennis Wharton , spokesman for the National
Association of Broadcasters, said in a statement.  The NAB, which represents TV station owners, has called for
an inventory of spectrum use before auctions begin. Members of
the Washington-based group include  CBS Corp. (CBS) ,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBC, the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  