-- 
Rabobank ‘Optimistic’ on Profit Outlook Amid Market Turmoil

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 
2011-08-24T14:13:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/rabobank-optimistic-on-profit-outlook-amid-market-turmoil-1-.html
Rabobank Groep, the world’s biggest
agricultural lender, said it’s upbeat on its full-year earnings
outlook after first-half profit rose 13 percent, helped by
higher commissions from asset management and an increase in
interest income in Dutch retail banking.  Net income climbed to 1.85 billion euros ($2.67 billion)
from 1.64 billion euros in the year-earlier period, the Utrecht,
Netherlands-based lender said today. The bank took a 104
million-euro write down on its Greek government bond holdings
and agreed to participate in a bailout for the debt-laden
country.  “Despite the current turmoil in the financial markets,
Rabobank is optimistic about the level of its profits for the
full year 2011, assuming no further worsening of the current
economic conditions,” Chairman Piet Moerland said.  Profits from Dutch retail banking operations, which account
for more than 50 percent of earnings, rose 14 percent to 1.1
billion euros. The lender’s market shares in mortgages and
savings declined from 29.3 percent to 29 percent and from 39.7
percent to 39.4 percent, respectively.  Commission income from Rabobank’s asset managers, including
 Switzerland ’s  Bank Sarasin & Cie AG (BSAN)  and Rotterdam-based Robeco
Groep NV, rose 18 percent to 499 million euros.  In addition to the Greek writedown, Rabobank booked
impairments of 7 million euros on Irish and Portuguese sovereign
debt. It held 690 million euros in government bonds of  Italy ,
 Greece ,  Spain , Ireland and  Portugal  at the end of June,
according to its first-half report.  Bearing Burdens  “Policymakers were slow to take actions on lowering
Greece’s debt burden,” Moerland said, “The financial sector
will now also have to bear some of the burden, as well as
governments and citizens.” The firm is currently studying the
options for contributing to a Greek rescue package, it said.  The Dutch cooperative made up of independent lenders aims
to keep a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 12.5 percent, above
regulatory levels. The ratio, which measures a bank’s ability to
absorb losses, rose to 16.2 percent at the end of June from 15.7
percent six months earlier, it said. Rabobank kept its top
 credit rating  throughout the financial crisis and hasn’t needed
state support.  Costs for risky loans were above the long-term average in
the first half, boosted by provisions for the loan book of its
Irish ACCBank unit. Dutch local Rabobanks took an additional
provision for greenhouse vegetable growers after the E. coli
outbreak in  Germany  in May brought exports of fresh vegetables
to Germany to a temporary halt. Value adjustments at the group
level were 618 million euros, compared to 569 million euros a
year earlier.  The lender became “more cautious” on lending to other
banks, Chief Financial Officer Bert Bruggink told reporters
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  