-- 
South African Bonds Snap Seven-Day Rally as Inflation Pares Rate-Cut Bets

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-24T14:16:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/rand-heads-for-two-week-low-to-dollar-as-growth-concern-cuts-risk-appetite.html
South African four-year bonds fell,
snapping a seven-day rally, as reports on inflation in  Africa ’s
biggest economy and U.S. durable goods damped expectations of an
 interest-rate  cut. The rand pared a drop against the dollar.  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 retreated 33 cents to
124.12 rand, raising the yield seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 6.59 percent as of 3:43 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The rand traded 0.2 percent weaker at 7.1933 per
dollar after declining as much as 0.8 percent to 7.2361 earlier.  South Africa’s benchmark stock index headed for its biggest
gain in almost two weeks, U.S. equity-index futures pared losses
and Treasuries trimmed gains after U.S. durable goods orders
climbed more than forecast in July, reducing concern the world’s
biggest economy is heading for a recession.  South Africa ’s
consumer price index rose more than economists’ expectations in
June, the Pretoria-based statistics agency reported earlier,
prompting investors to pare bets on an interest-rate cut.  “Today’s data serve as a reminder that inflation is not
going down despite some loss of economic momentum, and are an
extra argument to keep rates on hold for now rather than
contemplate additional easing,” Jean-Francois Mercier, a
London-based analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a note.  The  Reserve Bank  has kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent this year to help spur
growth in Africa’s biggest economy, even as cost pressures
increase. Governor Gill Marcus said yesterday the bank will act
“appropriately” if there’s a sustained slowdown in the global
economy, fueling speculation the Monetary Policy Committee may
lower its key rate again.  Rate Bets  Forward-rate agreements starting in December climbed three
basis points to 5.36 percent. The Monetary Policy Committee has
its last meeting for the year in November.  “Should the global economy slip back into recession a cut
in rates may be considered,”  Carmen Altenkirch  and Dennis Dykes, analysts at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., wrote
in a note. “However, for now, we are maintaining our view of
unchanged rates until May 2012.”  Earlier, the rand declined after German business confidence
fell to the lowest in more than a year, sapping demand for
riskier assets. Emerging-market stocks declined and the yen
advanced against most of its counterparts even after  Japan 
announced a $100 billion package designed to weaken the currency
as investors turned to lower-risk assets.  “One is cautious not to be too short-dollar right now,
especially with the  Bank of Japan  and  Swiss National Bank 
intervening to prop up the dollar,” Tradition Analytics
strategists led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote
in a research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  