-- 
Red Sox Overcome Rangers to Take Share of Lead in AL East as Yankees Lose

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-24T04:52:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/red-sox-beat-rangers-to-takes-share-of-lead-in-al-east-as-yankees-lose.html
The Boston  Red Sox  beat the Texas
Rangers 11-5 to take a share of the American League East lead
with the New York Yankees, who lost 6-5 to the Oakland Athletics.  Adrian Gonzalez hit two home runs as the Red Sox surged to
a 7-3 lead through four innings at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington,
Texas, last night.  After Josh Hamilton hit a home run in the fifth for the
Rangers, Marco Scutaro and Dustin Pedroia each added two-run
doubles in the eighth for Boston.  Ian Kinsler  wrapped up the
scoring in the ninth with another home run for the hosts.  At Yankee Stadium, a home run by Brandon Allen in the
eighth put the Athletics 6-0 ahead.  Nick Swisher  then hit a
three-run homer in the bottom of the inning and  Jorge Posada 
added a solo home run in the ninth.  Russell Martin then scored on Robinson Cano’s bases-loaded
walk. Trailing by one run with two outs, and with Curtis Granderson
on second base and  Brett Gardner  at third, Swisher flied out to
centerfield to end the Yankees’ rally.  New York  fell to 77-49 with its second loss in three starts,
while Boston improved to 78-50.  Alex Rodriguez  sat out the game with a sprained thumb that
he sustained in his return for the Yankees on Aug. 21 after a
monthlong layoff following knee surgery.  Also last night, Shane Victorino hit a solo home run and a
two-run triple, while John Mayberry Jr. added a three-run homer
as the Phillies marched to a 9-0 fifth-inning lead against the
New York Mets at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia.  After Nick Evans scored on a Justin Turner ground out in
the seventh for New York, Lucas Duda hit a two-run homer in the
eighth to narrow the deficit to 9-3. Evans made it 9-4 on Josh Thole’s groundout in the ninth to complete the scoring.  Vance Worley (9-1) gave up five hits and one run and struck
out nine in seven innings for the Phillies, who hold the best
record in Major League Baseball at 83-44. The Mets dropped to
60-68, 23 1/2 games behind the Phillies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  