-- 
Rhode Island Offers ‘Aggressive’ Yields After City Bankruptcy: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-08-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/rhode-island-offers-aggressive-yields-after-city-bankruptcy-muni-credit.html
Rhode Island , whose poorest city
filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection Aug. 1, began a $169
million general-obligation bond sale yesterday with yields
priced below an AA+ index of tax-exempt debt, one step higher.  The state was able to shake off Central Falls’s insolvency
and offer individuals $6.75 million of AA rated bonds maturing
in 2021 with a yield of 2.6 percent, according to pricing
information from Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, a member of the
deal’s syndicate. That’s 0.04 percentage point below an AA+
index of 10-year tax-exempt debt. About $11 million of the bonds
maturing in 2031 priced at par with a 4 percent yield, or 0.15
point below an AA+ index of 20-year tax exempts.  Rhode Island  isn’t a frequent issuer, which may have
enabled it to offer lower yields than otherwise, said Michael Pietronico, chief executive officer of  Miller Tabak  Asset
Management in  New York , who manages $585 million of munis.  “Given the issues on the local basis, it seems like fairly
aggressive pricing,” Pietronico said. “But the other side of
the coin is that there just hasn’t been a lot of debt at the
state level coming out of Rhode Island, so there could be some
investors who have interest in diversifying.”  The deal generated more than $15 million of bids from
individual investors as of 1 p.m. yesterday, Dara Chadwick, a
spokeswoman for Rhode Island Treasurer Gina Raimondo, said in a
telephone interview.  Yields on Offer  The transaction includes $4.8 million of bonds maturing
August 2014 with a yield of 0.63 percent, or 31 basis points
below an Aug. 12 trade of Rhode Island general obligations sold
in 2010 and due October 2014. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  A tranche of five-year bonds sold yesterday yielded 1.2
percent, or 47 basis points below an Aug. 22 trade of Rhode
Island debt sold in 2007 and maturing in August 2016.  Treasury yields have fallen faster than those on municipal
debt. Tax-exempt yields represented about 100.93 percent of
Treasuries yesterday, compared with an average of 91.75 percent
in 2011, Bloomberg data show. Municipals and Treasuries became
more expensive as investors sold equities after  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. to AA+ and reports of a slower
economic recovery.  Proceeds from Rhode Island’s sale will finance capital
projects for transportation, education and open-space
initiatives as well as to refinance debt, Chadwick said.  Weekly municipal issuance is set for $4.2 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, which is down from last
week’s $6.4 billion of sales.  Light Calendar  The light calendar helped Rhode Island attract individual
buyers and even with Central Falls’s Chapter 9 filing, the state
doesn’t face major risks, said Dan Solender, who manages about
$14 billion as head of municipal bonds at Lord Abbett & Co. in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  “Rhode Island is still well into the AA range so the only
risk would be a minor downgrade, but nothing more significant
than that,” he said.  While Rhode Island pursues its offering at competitive
rates, local Alabama issuers in and around Jefferson County face
higher borrowing costs because they are located in the same
state as the county, which is debating whether to file for
bankruptcy.  In December, statements by  Meredith Whitney , the banking
analyst, about a potential “spate” of defaults began to rattle
the $2.93 trillion muni market.  Along with the headline risk related to Central Falls,
Rhode Island’s Treasury Department has been working with the
Securities and Exchange Commission since early February
regarding the state’s bond documents after the SEC contacted
Raimondo’s department.  Greater Transparency  Offering documents now include additional information about
the state’s pension system, Chadwick said. The Treasury
department also created an investor website that provides
financial documents and the state has begun training programs
for employees regarding bond disclosure practices, Chadwick
said.  Investors probably won’t ask for more yield because of the
SEC’s request, Miller Tabak’s Pietronico said.  “I don’t think that it’s an issue that should affect this
deal,” he said. “As far as tax-free bond investors go, better
disclosure is needed from all issuers on an ongoing basis and I
wouldn’t say Rhode Island is a particular problem at this
point.”  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  COLORADO  SPRINGS, Colorado’s  second-most populous  city with
416,427 residents, will sell $167 million of utility revenue
bonds as soon as today to refinance debt. The sale is rated AA,
Standard & Poor’s third-highest grade. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is
the senior manager of the bond sale. (Added Aug. 24)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  