-- 
Triangle Points to Loonie Decline, Bank America Says: Technical Analysis

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-08-24T17:30:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/triangle-patterns-points-to-loonie-decline-bofa-says-technical-analysis.html
Trading patterns show  Canada ’s
dollar is poised to drop as much as five percent in two weeks
against the greenback after staying “remarkably stable” during
the recent market turmoil, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said.  The Canadian currency may break from its “contracting
triangle” pattern to as low as C$1.0389 versus the U.S. dollar,
from the 98.74-cent closing price yesterday,  MacNeil Curry , head
of foreign exchange technical strategy at Bank of America, wrote
in a note to clients today. Such a move would represent a loss
of about 5 percent.  Canada’s currency has already depreciated 4.6 percent after
reaching a three-year high 94.07 cents on July 26 on concern the
global economy is headed for recession. A “double bottom”
pattern has formed as the currency approached 94 cents twice and
was rebuffed, meaning the previous support level of 97.69 for
the  U.S. dollar  has become a resistance level, with the pair
targeting the C$1.0270 to C$1.0389 range, Curry wrote.  “Triangles tend to be continuation patterns, so in this
case you get a move higher, then you contract for a period of
time, you consolidate, and then you break out to the topside, in
the direction of the previous trend,” Curry, based in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview. “Eventually the pattern should
resolve higher.” He said the timeframe is “maybe two weeks,
potentially a bit shorter.”  Elliott Wave Theory, created by U.S. market analyst Ralph
Elliott in 1938, attempts to predict future price moves by
dividing past trends into sections, or waves, and calculating
changes in value. In a contracting triangle, the first wave is
the longest while the fifth wave is the shortest.  Coiling Spring  Canada’s dollar, often referred to as the loonie because of
the waterfowl on the one-dollar coin, was little changed at
98.81 cents versus the greenback at 1:17 p.m. in Toronto. The
pair is “coiling like a spring” as it trades in an
increasingly constrained band toward 99.06 cents on the topside
and 98.61 cents on the bottom side, the strategist wrote.  Support refers to the bottom boundary of a trading range,
where buy orders may be clustered. Resistance is the lower
boundary, where traders place automatic sell orders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  