-- 
Ringgit Drops on Speculation Fed Will Disappoint; Bonds Climb

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-08-24T08:24:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/ringgit-drops-on-speculation-fed-will-disappoint-bonds-climb.html
Malaysia’s ringgit declined from a
three-week high on speculation the  Federal Reserve  won’t unveil
a third round of stimulus measures to boost the  U.S. economy .  The currency halted a three-day rally as Moody’s Investors
Service cut  Japan ’s credit rating and economists predict reports
this week will show the U.S. economy grew less than estimated in
the second quarter. There is a “high risk” that a “big policy
response” may not be forthcoming when central bankers from
around the world meet in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, this week, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch said in a report yesterday. Malaysian
 government bonds  rose as stocks fell.  “Risk appetite remains very tentative for now as global
growth is at risk of stalling and further monetary stimulus via
potential QE3 in the U.S. may not materialize,” said Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research at Malayan Banking
Bhd. in  Singapore . “Expect Asian currencies to trade with
slight weakness.”  The ringgit fell 0.4 percent to 2.9783 per dollar as of
4:10 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency, which has appreciated 1.3 percent this
quarter, reached a 14-year high of 2.9335 on July 27.  Moody’s cut Japan’s rating by one level to Aa3, or the
fourth-best investment grade, citing weak prospects for growth
that will make it difficult for the government to cut its debt
burden. Japan bought 11 percent of Malaysian goods in the first
half of this year, making it the third-largest export market.  The U.S. economy expanded at an annual rate of 1.1 percent
in the second quarter, compared with the 1.3 percent rate
estimated last month, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before a Commerce Department report on Aug. 26. The business
climate index in  Germany  fell to 108.7 in August, the lowest
since June 2010, the Munich-based Ifo Institute said today.  Malaysia’s three-year government bonds rose, pushing yields
to a one-week low. The yield on the 3.434 percent notes due
August 2014 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
3.18 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  