-- 
Romania May Auction Black Sea Oil, Gas Blocks Permits Next Year

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-08-24T13:06:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/romania-may-auction-black-sea-oil-gas-blocks-permits-next-year.html
Romania  may auction exploration
licenses for six oil and gas blocks in the  Black Sea  as early as
next year after the global crisis kept investors away at
previous auctions, said Alexandru Patruti, the head of Romania’s
 Mineral Resources Agency .  “We have six more blocks to award in the Black Sea, but we
will definitely not organize auctions this year,” Patruti said
in an interview from Bucharest yesterday. “We haven’t receive
any offers for these blocks so far, probably because the
drilling requires large investments and we are in a global
crisis.”  The eastern European country has enough oil and gas
reserves to secure its internal consumption over the next 15
year in a region fueled by Russian resources, according to an
 energy strategy draft  on the Economy Ministry website. The
country, which still has about 159 billion cubic meters of
proven gas reserves and 72 million metric tons of oil after more
than 100 years of exploitation, hasn’t estimated the reserves
from the Black Sea blocks.  Romania awarded exploration licenses for five offshore
blocks last year.  OMV Petrom SA (SNP) , Exxon Mobil Corp., Petro
Ventures Europe BV and OAO Lukoil are among the companies
searching for oil and gas in the Black Sea waters.  The Balkan nation may also have a “significant potential”
for developing shale-gas fields as the country already awarded a
license to  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  to explore three blocks in the
southeastern region of Dobrogea, Patruti said.  “Normally, when a country has conventional oil and gas
reserves, it should certainly have unconventional reserves
also,” Patruti said. “These are yet to be confirmed, but I
assume there is a huge potential.”  Eastern Europe may hold as much as 7.1 trillion cubic
meters of shale gas, according to Energy Information
Administration’s estimates.  Poland , which according to EIA, may
have about 5.2 trillion cubic meters of shale gas, already
granted 86 exploration licenses, while Ukraine, Hungary and
 Bulgaria  are among other countries in the region which decided
to press ahead with shale exploration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  