-- 
RTS Index Futures Fall as Commodities Drop: Russia Overnight

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-08-24T22:18:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/rts-index-futures-fall-as-commodities-drop-russia-overnight.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
fell, indicating stocks may drop in Moscow, as commodities
declined and investors considered what the U.S. Federal Reserve
may do to support the recovery of the world’s largest economy.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September dropped 0.2 percent to 158,900 yesterday after
Moscow’s 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained 1.2 percent to 1,461.62.  Futures contracts on OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil
producer, fell 0.1 percent and those on OAO Lukoil, Russia’s
second-biggest oil producer, rose 0.3 percent. Contracts on OAO
Gazprom, the world’s largest gas producer, retreated 0.1
percent.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and other central
bankers meet on Aug. 26 in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , for an annual
conference. At last year’s meeting, Bernanke signaled that the
Fed would start a second round of asset purchases, known as QE2,
which boosted stock and commodity markets.  “Commodity prices reacted positively last year with QE2,
so Bernanke on Friday is going to be a pretty important event
for Russia,” said Ilya Kravets, research analyst ED Capital in
New York, in a phone interview. “The assumption is that he’ll
have to go all-in on this for it to work.”  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
declined 0.8 percent as gold plunged $104 in New York, capping
the biggest drop since March 2008.  The euro was little changed against the dollar at $1.4408
at 6:10 p.m. in  New York .  Russian Gas Tariffs  Gazprom rose 2.4 percent in  London  as Russia’s Deputy
Economy Minister Stanislav Voskresensky said the country may
raise domestic natural-gas tariffs by 15 percent, a higher rate
than for transportation and oil pipeline monopolies. The company
has said it needs to increase rates to help avoid losses on gas
sales at home, where demand is rising.  “Gazprom and some others spiked on news of the 15 percent
gas tariffs, so you’re seeing fundamental movement that is
supporting Russia,” Kravets added.  The Bank of New York Mellon Russia ADR Index rose 0.4
percent. The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, fell 0.4 percent to $31.45.  The Micex advanced the most in a week yesterday as orders
for U.S. durable goods climbed more than forecast in July. The
better-than-expected report came as a surge in the demand for
aircraft and autos outweighed a decline in business equipment,
including computers and machinery.  The gauge of Russian equities has dropped 13 percent since
the start of the year and currently trades at 5.7 times
analysts’ earnings estimates. That compares with a 22 percent
slide for  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index, which trades at 8.9 times
earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Shanghai Composite Index trades at 11.7 times estimated
earnings, and  India ’s Sensex at a ratio of 13.6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  