-- 
Salgado Says Spain Constitutional Amendment Will Keep Same Budget Rules

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-08-24T08:48:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/salgado-says-spain-constitutional-amendment-will-keep-same-budget-rules.html
Spain’s plan to enshrine budget
discipline in the constitution won’t alter the content of
existing deficit rules, Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said.  The amendment to the constitution, announced yesterday by
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, will include the
“same ideas” as those already in the budget law, Salgado said.
That law calls for balanced budgets in years of “normal
growth,” allowing “small deficits” when growth is under 2
percent, she said in an interview with  Cadena Ser  radio today.  “That same idea is going to be included in the
constitution,” Salgado said. “The reform will allow the
flexibility that when there is a grave crisis or a natural
disaster there can be deficits.”  Zapatero said yesterday he’d secured the backing of the
opposition People’s Party for the amendment, which follows
similar plans by France, Italy and  Germany . Spurred on by German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , Spain’s Socialist government is
raising the status of its budget law after a surge in its
borrowing costs prompted the  European Central Bank  to start
buying its debt.  Spain’s existing budget law didn’t stop the country running
a deficit of 11 percent of gross domestic product in 2009 as it
responded to the recession with one of the largest economic
stimulus programs in  Europe . The government aims to slash that
to 6 percent this year and 3 percent in 2013 as the sovereign-
debt crisis forces it to implement the deepest austerity
measures in at least three decades.  Writing the budget laws into the constitution means they
will be included at the “top level” of  Spain ’s legislation,
Salgado said. The rules will also take into account the public
debt burden, which was 60 percent of GDP last year, Salgado
said.  The amendment will be presented to parliament this week,
Salgado said. Parliament closes at the end of September before a
general election on Nov. 20 that polls indicate the Socialists
will lose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  