-- 
Samsung Asset to Start Global Debt Fund, Betting on Yuan, Rupiah, Yen, Won

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-08-24T01:49:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/samsung-asset-to-start-global-debt-fund-betting-on-yuan-rupiah-yen-won.html
Samsung Asset Management Co., South
 Korea ’s biggest fund manager, plans to start a global fund
targeting debt of  China , Indonesia, Korea and  Japan  this year,
betting on gains in their currencies.  “The outlook for Asian currencies is positive as the
nations’ economic growth and fiscal status are solid,” Park
Sung Jin, who oversees 20 trillion won ($19 billion) of debt as
chief investment officer of Samsung Asset’s fixed-income
division in Seoul, said in an interview yesterday. “Currency
appreciations in Indonesia, Korea, and Japan will continue until
at least the end of next year, with China’s yuan strengthening
for a much longer period.”  Fund managers are increasingly seeking diversification to
protect their wealth as a slowing global economy, the
unprecedented downgrade of the U.S.’s top credit rating and
 Europe ’s debt crisis shake investor confidence. Gains in the
local-currency debt of developing nations sent yields on the
benchmark JPMorgan GBI-EM Global Diversified Index to a nine-
month low, even as bonds of similarly rated U.S. companies fell
this month on concern the economy may stall.  Indonesia’s rupiah and South Korea’s won rose 5.2 percent
and 4 percent this year, respectively, the best performers after
 Singapore ’s dollar among  Asia ’s 10 most-active currencies. The
yuan gained 3.3 percent, reaching a 17-year high of 6.3825 on
Aug. 16, while Japan’s yen has appreciated 5.9 percent, reaching
a postwar record high of 75.95 per dollar on Aug. 19.  Indonesia, Korea  Asia’s emerging-market economies will expand 8.4 percent in
2011, almost quadruple the 2.2 percent growth projected for
developed nations, the  International Monetary Fund  said in June.
Indonesia’s local-currency bonds handed investors a 12.6 percent
return so far this year, the most among Asia’s 10 biggest debt
markets, HSBC indexes show. Korean notes gained 4.7 percent.  “Indonesia has been undervalued by foreign investors, but
the nation has firm levels of domestic consumption and has shown
good economic performance,” Park said. The level of yields on
Korean  government bonds  is still “relatively high” compared
with securities of other developing nations, he added.  Samsung Asset’s new fund will aim for an annual return of 7
percent, investing mainly in Asian debt but also including other
attractive securities, Park said. Samsung’s first dim sum debt
fund, which targets yuan bonds in  Hong Kong , has achieved an
annualized return of 7 percent since it started in January, he
added. The yuan will appreciate by between 4 percent and 5
percent on average annually because of the nation’s economic
growth and policy makers’ efforts to internationalize the
currency, he said.  Korean Yields  Samsung Asset will remain “overweight” in  South Korea ’s
five- and 10-year bonds until at least year-end, as the Bank of
Korea is likely to keep borrowing costs steady for the rest of
the year due to the global economic slowdown, Park said.  The yield on the nation’s five-year benchmark bonds fell 45
basis points in the past year to 3.66 percent, while that on
ten-year debt dropped 65 basis points to 3.89 percent. Rates on
five-year bonds will decline to around 3.5 percent by the end of
this year, with those on 10-year government notes falling near
3.6 percent, Park said.  Samsung’s flagship mutual bond fund, Samsung ABF Korea
Index Securities Investment Trust, is up 4.5 percent this year,
outperforming 9 percent of its peers, according to data tracked
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  