-- 
Samsung Loses Dutch Ruling Over Smartphone Sales in Dispute With Apple

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-08-24T16:58:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/samsung-banned-from-selling-some-smartphones-in-netherlands.html
Samsung Electronics Co. lost a Dutch
court ruling over sales of its Galaxy S, S II and Ace
smartphones in the country in a patent dispute with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   A court in  The Hague ,  Netherlands , said Samsung will have to
halt some sales of the products after Oct. 13. The ruling is
preliminary and “has no bearing whatsoever on proceeding on the
merits of the case,” the court said.  While the Dutch court didn’t extend the ruling to sales of
Samsung’s tablets, a German regional court in Dusseldorf on Aug.
9 granted Apple a sales ban against Samsung’s Galaxy 10.1 tablet
in 26 of the 27 European Union member countries, only to then
scale back its effects a week later over jurisdictional doubts.  The legal battle between Apple and rival smartphone makers
is intensifying as an increasing number of consumers use
smartphones and handsets to surf the Web, play games and
download music and videos. Apple, the world’s top smartphone
seller, has filed patent cases against handset makers using
Google Inc.’s Android operating system, including Samsung
Electronics Co., Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and HTC.  In the Dutch case, Apple accused its rival of breaching
three of its patents including scrolling in the handsets’ photo
gallery and the way a device is unlocked, and several design
rights for the iPad tablet and the iPhone smartphone.  Legal Action  “We will take all possible measures including legal action
to ensure that there is no disruption in the availability of our
Galaxy smart phones to Dutch consumers”, Samsung said in an e-
mailed statement. The company doesn’t expect that the ruling
will affect sales in other European markets. Apple said in an e-
mailed statement that “it’s no coincidence that Samsung’s
latest products look a lot like the iPhone and iPad.”  The Dusseldorf court will today hear oral arguments on
whether to reinstate or squash the Aug. 9 tablet sales ban.
Apple wrote in a brief filed Aug. 4 that the tablet dispute is
worth 2 million euros ($2.9 million), citing a “preliminary
estimate.”  The number doesn’t seem to reflect the economic risks at
stake and may be a tactic to avoid legal costs, according to
 Mario Wegner , a litigator at law firm Wegner  Ullrich Mueller-
Helle & Partner  in Berlin.  “You don’t have to be an expert to see that Samsung faces
much higher losses if it loses the case and Apple would gain
much more if it wins,” said Wegner. “That’s rather self
evident to everybody.”  German Litigation  Parties in German litigation need to tell the court how
much is at stake for them when they file a case. The amount is
used to calculate court fees and also fees lawyers can claim
under statutory rules. The legal bill has to be paid by the
party that loses the case.  Plaintiff and defendant lawyers alike sometimes downplay
the value of the claim at the beginning of a suit only to later
adjust them during the proceedings if they feel they may be able
win the case, said Wegner.  The tribunal for the time followed Apple’s assessment and
set the value of the suit preliminarily at 2 million euros, said
court spokesman Peter Schuetz, adding that the judges will make
the final ruling. The decision is expected to be issued within
three weeks.  Worldwide, tablet computers, led by the iPad, are the
fastest-selling products in the $263 billion PC industry,
according to researcher IDC. The tablet market is poised to jump
almost fivefold over five years to $53 billion by 2015,
according to IDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  