-- 
Kubrick’s ‘2001’ Beat Apple IPad Tablet Design by Decades, Samsung Claims

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-08-24T19:09:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/samsung-points-to-ipad-cameo-in-kubrick-s-2001-film-in-apple-patent-case.html
Samsung Electronics Co., facing
allegations that it stole tablet computer patents from  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , says the design for such devices can be traced back to
Stanley Kubrick’s 1968 film “2001: A Space Odyssey.”  The design claimed in a 2005 patent Apple holds covering
parts of the appearance of the iPad is depicted in the film, in
which two astronauts are using tablet computers, Samsung
attorney Sara Jenkins said in a court filing yesterday in
federal court in  San Jose  that included a clip from the film.  “The tablet disclosed in the clip has an overall
rectangular shape with a dominant display screen, narrow
borders, a predominantly flat front surface, a flat back
surface” and a thin form, Jenkins said in the filing.  Apple sued Samsung this year saying the South Korean
company’s Galaxy line of mobile devices, including its Galaxy
Tab, infringes Apple’s D’889 and other patents. The iPad maker
is seeking a court order blocking Samsung from selling products
that violate its patents. A hearing is scheduled for October.  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the filing.  The D’889 patent covers parts of the iPad’s “unique and
novel ornamental appearance” such as the black face, the matrix
of icons and a rim surrounding a flat screen, Cupertino,
California-based Apple said in court filings. Samsung’s Galaxy
Tab infringes the patent, the company alleges.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 11-
1846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in San Francisco at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  