-- 
Sanofi to Buy Indian Nutraceutical Unit; Terms Not Disclosed

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-24T09:51:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/sanofi-to-acquire-universal-medicare-vitamins-unit-terms-not-disclosed.html
Sanofi agreed to buy a unit of
 India ’s Universal Medicare Ltd. that makes branded health and
nutrition treatments as the French drugmaker tries to increase
sales from non-prescription products.  The boards of both companies have approved the deal, which
is expected to close in the fourth quarter of this year subject
to conditions, Sanofi’s Aventis Pharma Ltd. unit said in a
 statement  on its website today, without specifying the
conditions. The purchase price is about 5 billion rupees ($109
million), Reuters reported, citing two people with direct
knowledge of the matter.  The acquisition gives Sanofi a business that makes more
than  40 products  in a category known as “nutraceuticals,”
including vitamins, antioxidants, mineral supplements and anti-
arthritics. The unit had sales of about 1.1 billion rupees in
the 12 months ended March 31. Paris-based Sanofi is looking to
emerging markets and consumer products to replace revenue it’s
losing as patents expire on some of its best- selling
pharmaceuticals.  “This strategic acquisition will allow Aventis Pharma and
Sanofi Group to reach out to large sections of India’s
population through a broad offering comprising of
pharmaceuticals, vaccines and now neutraceuticals,” Shailesh Ayyangar, Aventis Pharma’s managing director, said in the
statement.  About 750 employees of Mumbai-based Universal Medicare will
join Aventis, according to the statement.  Sanofi in February acquired  China ’s BMP Sunstone Corp., a
maker of children’s cough and cold treatments, for $520.6
million.  -- Editors: Robert Valpuesta, Phil Serafino.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  