-- 
Sax Player JD Allen Channels John Coltrane at Village Vanguard

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-08-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/sax-player-jd-allen-channels-john-coltrane-at-new-york-s-village-vanguard.html
When saxophonist  JD Allen  made his
first pilgrimage to the storied Village Vanguard jazz club in
1993, its tough owner, Lorraine Gordon, kicked him out.  “I didn’t have the money to see the show, so I sat on the
stairs going down to the entrance,” said Allen, 38, by phone.
“And then I saw Lorraine.”  Allen laughs over the incident now: “I said, ‘One day I’m
going to play here,’ and she said, ‘You might, but right now I
want you to get off those stairs.’”  Last night, the sax player’s trio -- Gregg August on bass
and Rudy Royston on drums -- began a six-day stand on the stage
in the legendary pie-shaped room. He has made up with Gordon,
who called him two years ago after she heard one of his CDs and
offered him his first gig as a bandleader at the Vanguard, in
 Manhattan ’s  Greenwich Village .  “It’s so hard to find a good sax player for my tastes,”
Gordon said by phone. “I’m used to listening to Dexter Gordon
and Coltrane, and JD impressed me very much. It’s not about how
much business an artist draws, it’s about how they sound.”  Critics have praised Allen and his trio for dynamic playing
and intellectual rigor. His influences include Coltrane, Coleman
Hawkins and Branford Marsalis. This month,  DownBeat magazine’s
2011 Critics Poll  listed Allen as its rising star in the tenor-
saxophone category.  “Being on the Vanguard’s stage definitely gives me a shot
in the arm,” said Allen. “I really believe that this place is
jazz music’s  Carnegie Hall .”  Two Ballads Demanded  Allen said he’ll play an assortment of songs mostly from
his recordings on  Sunnyside Records , “I Am I Am” (2008),
“Shine!” (2009) and this year’s “Victory!” He also plans to
play one of his favorites, the jazz classic “ Star Dust .”  “Lorraine told me that as long as you play two ballads a
night, you can then play anything else you want,” Allen said.
“You have to be able to play that sensitive stuff. You can’t be
afraid to put on that pink shirt.”  A Detroit native, Allen was raised by his grandparents and
knew by age 9 that he wanted to become a musician. After high
school, he went to  Virginia ’s  Hampton University  on a marching-
band scholarship. He left school when vocalist  Betty Carter 
asked him to be in her band.  The New York jazz scene in the 1990s was flooded with
saxophone players. Allen said he focused on learning his craft
instead of being intimidated by New York’s deep talent pool.  “When Lorraine told me to leave the steps that night, I
said, ‘I’m going to be a jazz musician,’ I didn’t come to New
York to hear ‘No.’”  (The JD Allen Trio performs at the Village Vanguard, 178
Seventh Avenue South in Manhattan, through Sunday at 9 p.m. and
11 p.m. Information: +1-212-255-4037 or
 http://villagevanguard.com ).  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 