-- 
Rudin’s $9 Million ‘Mormon’ Bet Pays Cash, Artistic Dividends

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-08-24T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/scott-rudin-s-9-million-mormon-gamble-returns-cash-creative-dividends.html
With hopeful pilgrims camping out
daily on West 49th Street for standing-room tickets to “The
Book of Mormon,” Broadway’s biggest hit in years is poised to
earn millions for its creators, producers and investors,
according to financial statements obtained by Bloomberg News.  The documents were filed with the  New York  State Attorney
General’s Office by Book of Mormon Broadway LLC between December
2010 and June 2011. Bloomberg News was given copies of the
papers under a  Freedom of Information Law  request.  They underscore the complexity of producing a Broadway show
in which multiple creative and financial talents need to align.
And they highlight how much money stands to be made when those
forces combine to create a runaway hit.  “The Book of Mormon” opened on March 24 and cost about $9.1
million, according to the papers. It has returned about 30
percent of their money to its 74 investors, according to one who
spoke on condition of anonymity because investors are not
authorized to speak to the press.  According to the “Operating Agreement of Book of Mormon
Broadway LLC,” the musical is expected to pay off the remaining
70 percent by October. That would be very fast recoupment for an
industry in which shows can run for years without making money.  ‘Extremely Long’ Run  “This show is going to run an extremely long time,” said
Emanuel Azenberg, a producer who isn’t affiliated with the show,
about freshly minted Mormon elders on a thankless mission to
convert impoverished villagers in remote  Uganda . “While it’s
irreverent, it’s not sacrilegious. By the end of the evening,
all is forgiven.”  Written by Robert Lopez (co-composer of the music and
lyrics for “Avenue Q”) and Matthew Stone and  Trey Parker , the
creators of the  “South Park”  television series, the show won
nine Tony Awards, including best musical. The producers
initially projected recoupment at 33 weeks, based on weekly
sales of $949,000.  “Mormon,” however, has grossed at least $1.2 million a
week since late June, according to the  Broadway League , the
industry trade organization that publishes box office figures
every week.  The lead producers are Hollywood and Broadway veteran Scott Rudin and the three “South Park” principals: Anne Garefino --
who is executive producer of the “South Park” series -- and
Stone and Parker, under the aegis of Important Musicals LLC.  Through a spokesman, Chris Boneau, the producers declined
to comment for this story.  Advertising Costs  The operating agreement lists running expenses of $621,454
for the week ending April 17, the last week for which figures
are available. That excludes royalties but includes wardrobe and
dressers, union benefits and $193,642 in advertising and
promotion, a sum that will fluctuate over the course of the run.  “Mormon” is playing in one of Broadway’s smaller houses.
Tickets are scarce through January 2012. Its average ticket
price last week, $145.59, was the highest on Broadway.  Stunt-heavy “Spider-Man Turn Off the Dark,” which cost
$75 million, has weekly running expenses of about $1 million.
“Mormon” lacks special effects, elaborate costumes and stars.
Salaries for its five principal performers totaled $22,516 for
the week ending April 17 -- a third of what a single celebrity
can command.  Weekly Split  According to the operating agreement, the producers share 7
percent of weekly operating profit -- which is box office
revenue minus running expenses. Once investors are repaid, every
dollar of profit is split 50-50 with the lead producers. (First
the general manager, Stuart Thompson Productions, receives 2.5
percent of net profit after investors are repaid.)  Assume, conservatively, net weekly operating profit of
$500,000. The lead producers would divvy up about $175,000 a
week after the show is in the black.  The filings don’t disclose whether lead producers gave up
any “adjusted net profit” to other producers, a common reward
for raising money. Each of the 74 investors has a minimum stake
of $5,000, according to a July filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Equally complex are the sums paid to the creators of
“Mormon,” several of whom are also producers.  The three authors jointly earn royalties of 15.56 percent
of operating profit, increasing to 17.78 percent after
recoupment-plus-10-percent. Based on $500,000 weekly operating
profit, authors would share as much as $89,000 a week.  Two Directors  For his work as co-director, Parker received a one-time
$55,000 fee. He is paid an additional 3 percent of the weekly
operating profit, or about $15,000 a week. (The state filing
said that lead producers were in the “process of finalizing the
material terms of an agreement” with Parker and others.)  The choreographer and co-director,  Casey Nicholaw , was paid
$100,000 up front and will receive 9 percent of weekly operating
profit once the show doubles investors’ money. That could come
to as much as $45,000 a week. The creative team and producers
earn additional fees from subsidiary rights.  Jujamcyn Theatres , which owns the 1,068-seat Eugene O’Neill
Theatre where “Mormon” is running, takes $22,000 a week plus 6
percent of weekly gross, increasing to 7 percent once investors
are repaid. That comes to as much as $106,000 a week. Utilities
and insurance are extra.  The set, lighting, costume and sound designers each receive
about 1 percent of weekly operating profit.  ‘Gross Gross’  Two years ago, the Broadway League changed the way it
reports weekly box office revenue publicly, excluding  credit
card  and other fees. That “gross gross” typically inflates
public sales by about 10 percent.  The “Mormon” gap has been wider: For the week ending
April 10, for example, the League reported gross gross sales of
$966,075, while the production internally said box office
revenue was $780,740.  Weekly operating profit is calculated from the internal box
office figure. Credit card fees on orders for future
performances largely accounted for the difference, two people
familiar with the production said. The production paid the fees
as orders came in, subtracting from box office revenue.  The producers have sold “The Book of Mormon” as an edgy
but cheerful musical with broad appeal. Recent advertising has
emphasized the show, not the actors. That tack should help
extend its life.  While “Book of Mormon” mocks the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, for producers and investors it’s looking
like manna from heaven.  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 