-- 
SEC Wins $24.6 Million Civil Judgment Against Fugitive Analyst Deep Shah

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-08-24T18:17:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/sec-wins-24-6-million-civil-judgment-against-fugitive-analyst-deep-shah.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission won a judgment against Deep Shah, who has been
declared a fugitive in the  insider trading  case of Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, that includes a civil penalty of
$24.6 million.  Shah, an ex-analyst at Moody’s Investors Service Inc., was
charged in November 2009 by  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara and sued by the SEC for allegedly passing along inside
information about acquisitions involving Hilton Hotels Corp. and
Kronos Inc.  The commission sought a default judgment in June against
Shah and claimed he hasn’t responded to its suit. U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff signed the order Aug. 22 and it was filed
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  The judgment says Shah must pay back $8.2 million in
profits gained or losses avoided as a result of the conduct
alleged in the complaint, along with prejudgment interest of
$1.76 million and the civil penalty.  The SEC is “pleased with the decision,” spokesman  John Nester  said.  Lawyers for the SEC said in court documents filed in March
that the commission had located Shah in  Mumbai , where a bailiff
found Shah’s residence in the Juhu neighborhood of the city and
left an amended complaint on March 22, 2010.  Shah hasn’t responded to the complaint and no attorney has
entered an appearance on his behalf, lawyers for the SEC said in
their request for a default judgment last month.  Shah is accused of tipping  Roomy Khan , a former Intel Corp.
product-marketing engineer, in 2007 to material nonpublic
information about pending takeover bids for Hilton Hotels Corp.
and Kronos Inc. Khan then passed on the tips to Rajaratnam,
prosecutors said.  Khan pleaded guilty more than eight years ago to leaking
stock tips to Galleon and was sentenced to probation. In 2009,
she pleaded guilty in the current investigation, the biggest
crackdown targeting insider trading at  hedge funds , and is
cooperating with the government.  More than two dozen people have been convicted by Bharara’s
office in the Galleon probe, with four of them found guilty at
trial.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Galleon
Management LP, 09-cr-8811, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 