-- 
Self-Employment Needs Role in Jobs Programs: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-24T00:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/self-employment-should-play-a-bigger-role-in-jobs-programs-view.html
Cammie Allie and Ann Costlow are
small-scale entrepreneurs who aren’t trying to start the next
Microsoft. Yet both have battled back from unemployment to
create successful businesses, with the sort of government
support that could help thousands of other jobless people, too.  Allie  manages  apartment buildings in  Portland ,  Oregon ;
Costlow owns four creperies in  Maryland . To get started, each
drew on business coaching and income support from an unusual
state-funded jobless initiative. These  self-employment
assistance  programs provide 26 weeks of income support,
typically about $10,000. Participants try to start enterprises,
rather than being required to look full time for traditional
jobs.  Founding a business isn’t for everyone. Hours are long,
initial earnings puny, and the failure rate high even in boom
times. A weak economy makes everything harder.  For some displaced workers, however, self-employment may be
their best hope. Entrepreneurial aid to the jobless is typically
aimed at older, educated workers who lost good jobs in battered
industries. With the national  unemployment rate  above 9 percent,
such candidates face slim odds of finding appropriate work
through a standard job hunt.  In  Oregon , people opting for self-employment get business
pointers as well as detailed reviews of their startup plans.
Examiners look for clear ideas about pricing, supplies,
customers and competition. Only candidates judged to have at
least a moderate chance of success can proceed.  Oregon’s Successes  Oregon recently surveyed 369 people who have participated
in its program since 2000. Seventy percent had started a
business; nearly half of those were hiring workers. The small
survey’s responses might be skewed toward recipients who
thrived. Even so, Oregon’s successful entrepreneurs each created
an average of 2.63 additional jobs.  In  New Jersey , about 600 jobless people a year try self-
employment. Data on success rates is fragmentary, but state
officials say participants have started businesses in at least
33 fields, including computer services and catering. When such
ventures thrive, founders don’t just earn income -- they keep
hiring, becoming job multipliers.  Self-employment aid closely matches the cost of regular
 unemployment benefits , which can run $400 a person per week.
Britain, France and  Sweden  have operated similar entrepreneurial
assistance programs since the 1980s, with good results. In the
U.S., though, only about a dozen states have followed suit, and
most programs are tiny.  Bureaucracy is partly to blame. Current state and federal
rules don’t allow unemployed workers to pursue self-employment
aid right away; instead they must qualify for regular jobless
benefits first, which takes weeks. States also worry that some
startup dreams might fizzle quickly, wasting taxpayer money.  Living With Risks  Making the entrepreneur’s path risk-free is impossible.
Still, that shouldn’t stymie such aid. Three of the biggest
states -- California, Texas and  Florida  -- are home to 30
percent of America’s unemployed. These states don’t currently
offer entrepreneurial assistance to the jobless; setting up such
programs would be a big help.  Two other changes could help make entrepreneurship a
likelier path back to work. First, states should tell the newly
jobless about the self-employment option right away, rather than
making them wait a month or two before becoming eligible. And
second, minor income from a side business -- capped at a
reasonable level of, say, $750 a month -- shouldn’t be
automatically counted against jobless benefits. In some cases
this year’s hobby can be built into next year’s business.  When 4.7 people are out of work for every job opening,
unemployed Americans deserve better odds of becoming their own
bosses.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 