-- 
Singapore Stocks: Asia Environment, Neptune, Overseas Union

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-08-24T09:58:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/singapore-stocks-asian-environment-overseas-union-enterprise.html
Singapore ’s Straits Times Index
dropped 1.6 percent to 2,719.90 at the close, the lowest since
June 2010. Almost three stocks fell for each that rose in the
index of 30 companies.  The following shares were among the most active in the
market. Stock symbols are in parentheses after the company name.  Palm-oil producers: Crude palm-oil futures for November
delivery declined as much as 1 percent in  Kuala Lumpur  today,
heading for its first drop in three days.  Golden Agri-Resources
Ltd. (GGR)  , the world’s second-biggest palm-oil producer by
sales, sank 3.1 percent to 62.5 Singapore cents.  Wilmar
International Ltd. (WIL)  , the world’s largest palm-oil
processor, decreased 1 percent to S$5.04.  Asia Environment Holdings Ltd. (AENV)  , a provider of
waste-water treatment services, surged 31 percent to 29.5
Singapore cents. The company said Ciena Enterprises Ltd., which
is owned by chief executive officer Wang Hongchun, is offering
30 Singapore cents for the rest of Asia Environment.  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL SP), the shipping company
that gets more than half of its revenues from the “Americas,”
decreased 4.7 percent to S$1.025. A report on durable goods
orders to be released tonight will show U.S. companies probably
ordered less equipment in July as concern grew that the U.S.
recovery was coming to a halt, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Orders probably fell 0.5 percent last month after rising
0.4 percent in June, according the media forecast of 38
economists surveyed.  Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)  , a Singapore-based
hotel operator, jumped 7.9 percent to S$2.31. The company said
its main shareholder, Golden Concord Asia Ltd., will unwind a
financing transaction it entered into in January, reducing its
indirect stake in the company to about 63 percent from 67
percent. This is positive as it removes a share-price
“overhang,” CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. said in a note to
clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 