-- 
Sirius XM Wins Subscriber Class-Action Accord Court Approval

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-08-24T22:25:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/sirius-xm-wins-court-approval-of-subscriber-class-action-lawsuit-accord.html
Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  won court
approval for settlement with subscribers who sued the satellite-
radio broadcaster over claims it broke the law by raising prices
after acquiring its only rival.  U.S. District Judge Harold Baer in Manhattan endorsed the
accord in a filing today over the objections of some subscribers
who had argued at an Aug. 8 hearing that the deal paid them too
little and the lawyers too much.  “I have reviewed the settlement’s substantive terms and
conclude that they demonstrate sufficient fairness, adequacy and
reasonableness,” Baer wrote. “The vast majority of class
members will benefit in the course of their normal subscription
payments.”  Subscriber Carl Blessing of  Florida  sued Sirius XM in 2009,
claiming the company violated federal antitrust law and state
consumer-protection law when it raised some prices and levied a
music royalty fee after Sirius Satellite Radio acquired XM
Satellite Radio in 2008.  The subscribers said New York-based Sirius XM broke
promises it made to win approval of the merger from the U.S.
Federal Communications Commission and  Justice Department . Sirius
XM said the increases were imposed to cover higher costs.  Antitrust Claim  In March, Baer let the federal antitrust claim proceed as a
class action, or group lawsuit, on behalf of Sirius XM
subscribers from July 29, 2008, to July 5, 2011. He denied
class-action status on the state-law claims. The subscriber
group and Sirius XM reached a settlement before trial, and Baer
gave preliminary approval to the agreement in May.  The deal, valued at $180 million, provides that prices for
basic service and Internet access, as well as the music royalty
fee, will remain at current levels through the end of the year.
Subscribers who canceled can reconnect without paying a fee.
Those whose plans expire after Dec. 31 can renew before that
time at current rates. Subscribers will get no cash.  Sirius XM declined to comment on Baer’s decision,
spokeswoman Kelly Sullivan said in an e-mail.  Objectors called the settlement of “dubious value”
because Sirius XM hadn’t ever said it planned to raise prices
this year. They also objected to the $13 million in fees to be
paid to the lawyers representing the class.  ‘Expense Sheets’  “I have reviewed the attorney expense sheets as well as
the attorney time-keeping records, and found nothing to suggest
exorbitant rates nor double billing nor padding of any kind,”
the judge wrote.  The basic monthly charge is $12.99. Sirius XM increased the
rate a subscriber paid to get service on an additional radio to
$8.99 a month from $6.99. The class also decried a $2.99 charge
for  Internet access , which had been free. The music charge,
assessed after new royalty rates with  record companies  were set,
amounted to $1.98 a month.  Sirius had 21 million subscribers as of June 30, 8 percent
more than the previous year. It provides 135 channels of
commercial-free music as well as sports broadcasts and talk
shows featuring  Howard Stern  and  Martha Stewart , which carry
advertisements.  Sirius XM rose 5.5 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $1.75 at 4:30
p.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares
have gained 7 percent this year.  The case is Blessing v. Sirius XM Radio, 09-10035, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  