-- 
Slim’s America Movil Cedes Second Place to Tim in Brazil’s Mobile Market

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-08-24T03:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/slim-s-america-movil-cedes-second-place-to-tim-in-brazil-s-mobile-market.html
Tim Participacoes SA (TCSL4)  topped
billionaire Carlos Slim’s America Movil SAB in Brazil last month
to become the second-largest operator in Latin America’s biggest
wireless market, luring more users as its rivals reorganize.  Tim, the Brazilian unit of  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , had 25.8
percent of mobile-phone subscriptions in July, compared with
25.5 percent for America Movil’s Claro unit, according to data
released yesterday by Brazil’s telecommunications agency, known
as Anatel.  Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA (TLPP3) , a unit of Spain’s
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  known as Vivo, led the market with a 29.5 percent
share.  Tim, based in Rio de Janeiro, is using  promotions  such as
prepaid calls of unlimited duration to fixed lines to persuade
more customers to switch off their home lines in favor of
wireless phones. Tim customers averaged 127 minutes of use a
month last quarter, up 15 percent from the same period last
year.  “The primary thing has been offering low-cost long
distance,” said  Walter Piecyk , an analyst at BTIG LLC in  New
York . “The Infinity Web daily payment rates for Web access on
phones has also been successful.” He advises buying the shares.  Tim gained 30 centavos, or 3.4 percent, to 9.20 reais
yesterday in Sao Paulo trading.  America Movil  rose 20 centavos,
or 1.4 percent, to 14.86 pesos yesterday in Mexico City, where
the company is based.  America Movil and Telefonica are trailing Tim’s expansion
after both made transactions last year to combine fixed-line
networks with their wireless operations.  At the end of July, Tim’s subscriber base had increased 26
percent from a year earlier, compared with 18 percent growth for
America Movil and 15 percent for Vivo.  Brazil’s wireless market grew 17.8 percent in July from a
year earlier to 220.4 million subscribers, according to Anatel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  