-- 
Slovak Rating Outlook Raised to Positive from Stable by S&P on Budget Plan

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-08-24T10:49:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/slovak-rating-outlook-raised-to-positive-from-stable-by-s-p-on-budget-plan.html
Slovakia’s rating outlook was raised
to positive from stable by  Standard & Poor’s  on expectations the
eastern euro-region member will continue to reduce its  budget
deficit .  S&P also affirmed the country’s long-term rating at A+, its
fifth-best grade, according to an e-mailed statement from the
ratings company today.  “The positive outlook reflects the likelihood of an
upgrade if Slovakia’s government reduces its currently high
fiscal deficit, stabilizes government debt as a share of GDP,
and continues to reform the labor market and business
environment,” S&P said.  The administration of Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova , in
power for 13 months, has pledged to cut the budget deficit to
less than 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2013 from about
8 percent in the last two years. While S&P expects the shortfall
to overshoot the 2013 target by as much as 1 percentage point,
it sees state debt stabilizing at less than 45 percent of GDP.  S&P rates Slovakia, which adopted the euro in 2009, higher
than founding members of the single currency such as Ireland and
 Portugal . It rates  Spain  two levels higher at AA.  The government last week began debating the 2012 budget,
which envisages trimming the deficit to 3.8 percent of GDP from
a projected 4.9 percent this year. The spending plan is based on
expectations of 4.4 percent economic growth, an assumption which
may be “too optimistic,” Radicova said yesterday.  Weaker-than-projected growth in the export-driven economy
together with potential political and public opposition to
further austerity measures represent key risks to the
government’s fiscal plan, S&P said. On the other hand, pension
reform and legislation to limit state debt should support
Slovakia’s solvency in the longer term, it added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  