-- 
South Africa Threatens Mines With Bigger Fines on Ownership

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-24T13:05:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/south-africa-plans-to-raise-penalties-for-missing-mining-charter-targets.html
South Africa threatened to increase
fines for mining companies operating in the country such as  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  should they
break rules aimed at increasing black investment.  “We are looking at beefing up the penalties for non-
compliance,” Andre Andreas, director of mineral policy at the
Department of  Mineral Resources , said in parliament today. “The
current provisions that are there don’t serve as a deterrence”
and fines may need to be a percentage of a company’s revenue.  South Africa enacted its Mining Charter in 2004, compelling
operators to sell 26 percent of their local assets to black
South Africans by 2014 as a way to compensate for discrimination
during apartheid rule. A government-commissioned study from mid-
2008 found just 9 percent of the industry was black-owned, while
most other goals under the charter had also been missed.  The country has the biggest reserves of platinum, chrome
ore and manganese, and its total mineral resources may be worth
about $2.5 trillion, according to Citigroup estimates.  South Africa ’s Chamber of Mines, representing mining
companies including BHP, Xstrata and Anglo, said a survey of 33
of its 54 members had shown the industry had a weighted average
black ownership of 28 percent at the end of last year. All
respondents were more than 15 percent black-owned, it said.  Survey Disputed  “There has been progress since” the 2008 study, Frans Barker, a senior chamber executive, told parliament’s mineral
resources panel in  Cape Town . “Companies are hard at work
trying to implement the charter. I don’t think we should change
it mid-stream. It should be given a chance to show results.”  The chamber’s survey also showed 28.6 percent of top
managers and 36.8 percent of middle management were black. The
charter required companies to have 20 percent black management,
and for that figure to be increased to 40 percent by 2014.  “When it comes to broad-based black empowerment and
transformation, the  mining industry  stands second to none,”
Bheki Sibiya, the chamber’s chief executive officer, told the
committee. The 2008 study undertaken “was not thoroughly done.
We were not given space and time to engage on the report.”  About 79 percent of South Africa’s population is black, 9
percent white, 9 percent of mixed race and 2 percent Indian or
of Asian origin, according to the government statistics agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  