-- 
South Sudan Says 14 Soldiers Killed in Militia Attack in Upper Nile State

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-08-24T09:38:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/south-sudan-says-14-soldiers-killed-in-militia-attack-in-upper-nile-state.html
Fourteen South Sudanese soldiers
were killed in attacks by militias in Upper Nile state, close to
the border with  Sudan , the army said.  Fifty-three fighters from the armed groups were killed in
the clashes Aug. 19 and Aug. 20, which marked the biggest attack
on South Sudan’s forces since it seceded from Sudan on July 9,
the army spokesman, Philip Aguer, said today by phone from the
capital, Juba. The attackers targeted army bases in the villages
of Alal and Kaka Moro and the town of Kaka Al Tejareya, all
northwest of Malakal, the state capital, Aguer said.  The attackers were “a mix of Arab elements based in Sudan
and South Sudanese,” led by a Khartoum-based militia leader,
Gordon Kong, and renegade General George Athor, Aguer said. The
Arab fighters are based in the Al Hamra area in Sudan’s Southern
Kordofan state and were backed by the Sudanese army, he said.  This year has been the most violent in what is now South
Sudan since the end of a two-decade civil war between northern
and southern Sudan in 2005, with 2,368 civilians dying in rebel
attacks and ethnic violence as of July 9, compared with 940 last
year, according to the  United Nations .  A spokesman for Sudan’s army, Al-Sawarmi Khaled, didn’t
answer calls to his mobile phone seeking comment on the clashes.  South Sudanese authorities have accused the Sudanese
government of igniting violence in the south to disrupt the
transition of the oil-rich region to an independent nation.
Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir’s government rejects the
accusations.  In another incident, more than 600 people were reported
killed and as many as 985 injured in an Aug. 18 cattle raid by
the Murle ethnic group on villages of the Lou Nuer community in
Uror County in South Sudan’s Jonglei state, the UN peacekeeping
mission in South Sudan said Aug. 22. It was also the first
large-scale ethnic clash since South Sudanese independence, the
UN said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum, Sudan, at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 