-- 
South Africa Inflation Rate Rises to 5.3% in July on Power, Fuel Prices

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-24T08:52:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/south-africa-inflation-rate-rises-to-5-3-in-july-on-power-fuel-prices.html
South African inflation accelerated
to 5.3 percent last month, more than economists expected,
dimming chances the central bank will resume cutting  interest
rates .  The inflation rate increased from 5 percent in June, the
Pretoria-based statistics office said on its  website  today. The
median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
inflation to reach 5.2 percent. Prices rose 0.9 percent in the
month.  The Reserve Bank has kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent this year to help spur
growth in  Africa ’s biggest economy, even as cost pressures
increase. Governor Gill Marcus said yesterday the bank will act
“appropriately” if there’s a sustained slowdown in the global
economy, fueling speculation the Monetary Policy Committee may
lower its key rate again.  “The financial markets have factored in an interest rate
cut by November, but we believe this will largely depend on
whether the growth outlook deteriorates significantly from the
 Reserve Bank ’s current forecast,” Kgotso Radira, an economist
at Investec Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in a note to clients.
“We expect CPI inflation to continue on the upwards trajectory
for the remainder of the year.”  Market Reaction  The yield on the R157 government bond, due 2015, fell 1
basis point to 6.52 percent as of 10:34 a.m. in Johannesburg.
The rand strengthened to 7.2113 against the dollar from 7.2212
before the data was released.  Inflation accelerated last month as electricity and food
costs increased. Power prices increased 16 percent in July from
the previous month, while food costs rose 0.6 percent, the
statistics office said.  Inflation “is currently on an upward trend, mainly as a
result of food and energy price pressures, with few obvious
signs of excess demand pressures,” Marcus said in a speech in
Johannesburg yesterday.  While the bank aims to keep inflation within a range of 3
percent to 6 percent, it’s also mandated to take growth into
account when making interest rate decisions. The economy
probably expanded an annualized 2.1 percent in the second
quarter, less than half the 4.8 percent growth recorded in the
previous three months, according to the median estimate of eight
analysts polled by Bloomberg. The data will be released on Aug.
30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in London at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 