-- 
South Africa Plans to Open Rail Network to Transnet Competitors

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-08-24T15:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/south-africa-plans-to-open-rail-network-to-transnet-competitors.html
South Africa ’s government plans to
allow private companies to operate some rail networks in the
country as state-owned Transnet SOC Ltd. can’t meet rising
demand to move freight.  The Department of Transport’s proposal, which was given
Cabinet approval in 2005, is now being considered by lawmakers,
Clement Manyungwana, acting director-general in the department’s
planning division, said in a telephone interview from Cape Town
today.  A lack of capacity and poor infrastructure on South
 Africa ’s railways has been cited by the government as an
obstacle to faster growth in Africa’s biggest economy. About 87
percent of South African freight is transported on roads rather
than rail, increasing traffic congestion and damaging roads,
Manyungwana told lawmakers in  Cape Town  yesterday, according to
a report Johannesburg-based Business Day.  “Currently Transnet doesn’t have the capacity to meet rail
transport needs, resulting in bottlenecks,” Manyungwana said
today.  If implemented, private rail companies will be allowed to
operate on three lines: one in the eastern coastal province of
KwaZulu Natal; another in Northern Cape province that borders
 Namibia ; and a third that links the corn-growing areas in
central Free State with the north of the country, said
Manyungwana. The lines may be opened to competitors by December,
he said.  Business Day reported the plans today, saying that the
government will remove rail infrastructure assets from Transnet
to be housed in a separate entity. Manyungwana today denied that
Transnet will be split.  Transnet said on June 7 it will call for bidders to operate
35 percent of its rail network on “branch lines” that were
underutilized.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  