-- 
Statoil Makes Third Gullfaks License Discovery This Year

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-08-24T12:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/statoil-makes-third-gullfaks-license-discovery-this-year-1-.html
Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Norway ’s biggest oil
and gas producer, made its third discovery at the Gullfaks
license in the northern part of the North Sea this year.  Wells drilled at Gullfaks South, which Statoil operates,
revealed oil and gas-bearing intervals in the upper part of the
Brent group and a column about 120 meters (390 feet) thick with
“good reservoir quality,” the Stavanger-based company said
today by  e-mail . Preliminary calculations show 3 million to 9.5
million barrels of recoverable oil equivalent, which will be
tied back to existing infrastructure in the Gullfaks area,
Statoil said.  “Infrastructure-led exploration is important and yields
highly commercial finds which can be brought on stream
quickly,” Tom Dreyer, Statoil’s exploration chief for the
northern  North Sea , said in the statement. “Even though the
volumes are modest compared with the large finds made off Norway
earlier, this type of discovery is important for maximizing the
potential on the Norwegian continental shelf, and contributes to
extending the production life of installations.”  Statoil said last week two North Sea finds are probably
part of a single field that could be Norway’s largest discovery
since the 1980s, helping to prolong the nation’s output that has
declined for 10 consecutive years. Output peaked in 2000 and may
drop 6 percent this year to about 1.7 million barrels a day,
according to the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate.  Statoil, which operates 80 percent of Norway’s production,
missed its 2010 target and may produce less this year than last.  The company’s two other discoveries at Gullfaks this year
were Rutil and Opal. Gullfaks South began production in 1998 and
had an average monthly output of about 1.8 million barrels of
oil equivalent in the first six months of the year, according to
 Norwegian Petroleum Directorate  data. Statoil is working on
raising Gullfaks’s recovery rate to 62 percent from 59 percent.  Statoil holds a 70 percent stake in Gullfaks, while Petoro
AS owns 30 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  