-- 
State Farm Among Insurers That May Be in Hurricane Irene Path Along Coast

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-08-24T13:30:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/state-farm-among-insurers-that-may-be-in-irene-s-path-toward-new-england.html
State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co. is among insurers preparing for losses from Irene,
which was upgraded to a major hurricane today.  The  current track  estimates that Irene may cross  North
Carolina ’s Outer Banks this weekend and move up the U.S. East
Coast. Policyholder-owned State Farm is the biggest home insurer
in the country and has leading market share among non-government
carriers in states including North Carolina and  New Jersey .  Catastrophes led by tornadoes erased profit at insurers
including Travelers Cos. and  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  in the second
quarter.  Connecticut  may face almost $700 million in insured
losses from Irene, the most of any U.S. state, as it passes New
Jersey and New York’s Long Island, according to estimates from
Kinetic Analysis Corp., a risk-modeling firm.  “The first half of the year, we saw $17.3 billion in
insured catastrophe losses, the vast majority of that from
tornadoes,”  Robert Hartwig , president of Insurance Information
Institute, a trade group, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “That does make 2011 one of, but not the worst,
first half ever.”  Irene became a Category 3 major storm on the five-step
Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale, as it churned through the
Bahamas with top winds of 115 miles (185 kilometers) per hour,
the National Hurricane Center reported at 8 a.m. East Coast
time. The current track shows that the storm may make landfall
in Eastern Massachusetts Aug. 29.  The last hurricane to strike the U.S. was Ike in 2008, a
Category 2 storm when it went ashore near Galveston,  Texas . The
last major hurricane, one with winds of at least 111 mph, to
make landfall in the U.S. was Hurricane Wilma in 2005.  Preparing for Storm  Kim Conyers, a spokeswoman in North Carolina for State
Farm, said the Bloomington, Illinois-based insurer is tracking
the storm and getting catastrophe response teams ready to handle
claims. Travelers and  Chubb Corp. (CB)  are among the top sellers of
residential coverage in Connecticut, according to 2009 data from
the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.  The  insurance industry  is in a strong financial position
even after catastrophe losses in the first half, Howard Mills,
chief adviser of Deloitte LLP’s insurance-industry group, said
in an interview.  “There could be some very severe losses and some pain out
there and we are seeing people preparing,” said Mills. “No one
foresees Irene being a major problem for the insurance industry
in terms of insured losses.”  Two state-created entities of North Carolina sold $201.8
million of catastrophe bonds in May to protect against hurricane
damage, according to  Munich Re , the world’s largest reinsurer,
which helped manage the deal. Catastrophe bonds pay fixed-income
investors more than benchmark rates for taking the risk they
could lose their principal in the event of a disaster that meets
certain conditions.  Property Owners  The North Carolina Joint Underwriting Association and the
North Carolina Insurance Underwriting Association were created
to provide coverage for property owners who can’t buy policies
through standard insurance markets.  Government-run insurers expanded in recent years in
disaster-prone states including  South Carolina  and North
Carolina, Hartwig said. The Insurance Underwriting Association
reported  183,646 policies  at the end of March, a 53 percent
increase from 2005, according to data compiled by III.  “Much of the risk in the more easterly zones of these
states is held in the state-run residual market plans and
pools,” said Hartwig.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  