-- 
Strauss-Kahn, Insider Trading, Abbott Labs in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-24T11:37:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/strauss-kahn-insider-trading-abbott-temple-inland-in-court-news.html
Former International Monetary Fund
chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s sexual-assault case was thrown
out by a  Manhattan  judge after his accuser was found to have
lied about events surrounding the alleged attack.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus yesterday
granted District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s request to dismiss
the indictment. Obus earlier rejected the accuser’s bid for a
special prosecutor in the case and an appeals court yesterday
refused to reverse that decision.  The dismissal came about three months after Strauss-Kahn,
once a potential French presidential candidate, was pulled off a
flight at John F. Kennedy International Airport on May 14 and
arrested for allegedly attempting to rape a hotel maid.  The experience has been “a nightmare for me and my
family,” Strauss-Kahn, 62, said in a statement after Obus
ruled. “We are obviously gratified that the district attorney
agreed with my lawyers that this case had to be dismissed. We
appreciate his professionalism and that of the people who were
involved in that decision.”  The accuser, Nafissatou Diallo, told police that Strauss-
Kahn attacked her when she went to clean his suite at the
Sofitel in midtown Manhattan. During an investigation, Diallo,
33, admitted to lying about the circumstances of the incident
and other matters. Prosecutors said those lies made it
impossible to pursue the case. Kenneth Thompson, a lawyer for
Diallo, accused Vance yesterday of abandoning his client.  Obus didn’t say when Strauss-Kahn will be able to return to
France, where investigators are probing allegations that he
tried to rape French writer Tristane Banon eight years ago, a
claim he has denied. He will also have to defend a civil suit
Diallo filed in  New York  state court seeking unspecified
damages.  The criminal case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-02526, New
York State Supreme Court (New York County); the civil case is
Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065, New York State Supreme Court
(Bronx County).  For more, click here.  Lawsuit News  Primary Global CEO ‘Co-Conspirator’ in Scheme, U.S. Alleges  Unni Narayanan, the chief executive officer of Primary
Global Research LLC, an expert networking firm, was a “co-
conspirator” in an insider-trading scheme, prosecutors claimed
in court papers.  The government’s allegation was made public yesterday in a
filing by a defense attorney for James Fleishman, a former
Primary Global sales manager facing an Aug. 29 insider-trading
trial in Manhattan federal court. The defense lawyer,  Ethan
Balogh , attached a July 15 letter from prosecutors that listed
the “identity of co-conspirators” as Narayanan, Chief
Operating Officer Phani Saripella and other Primary Global
employees.  The government identified the individuals in response to a
defense request for the names of people allegedly involved in
the insider scheme.  Primary Global, based in Mountain View, California, is at
the center of a nationwide probe of insider trading at hedge
funds, technology companies, banks and consulting firms.  The firm connects investors with employees of public
companies who purportedly provide them with insight into
specific markets.  Winifred Jiau, a consultant for Primary Global, was
convicted of leaking insider information in June.  Neither Narayanan nor Saripella has been criminally charged
with wrongdoing. Dan Charnas, a spokesman for Primary Global,
declined to comment. Reached at his home in California,
Narayanan also declined to comment, as did  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in New York.  Prosecutors say Fleishman, of Santa Clara, California,
helped pass leaks from Primary Global’s consultants to the
firm’s clients.  The defense filing by Balogh also includes an Aug. 15
letter from prosecutors that names four other Primary Global
consultants as co-conspirators who allegedly leaked inside
information about sales numbers, shipment forecasts and profit
margins.  They are employees of  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , AT&T Wireless,
Samsung Semiconductor Inc. and  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  None of the
individuals has been criminally charged.  A call to Geneva-based STMicroelectronics wasn’t answered.
Mark Siegel, an AT&T spokesman, John Lucas, a spokesman for
Samsung Semiconductor, and Karen Kahn, a spokeswoman for
Broadcom, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Fleishman, 11-cr-32, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Abbott Sued by MedImmune Over Respiratory Drug Distribution  MedImmune LLC sued an Abbott Laboratories unit in a dispute
over the distribution of drugs created to combat respiratory
tract infections.  MedImmune, a unit  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , accused Abbott
International LLC of reneging on an agreement to seek European
market approval for distribution of MedImmune’s developmental
drug, Numax, and of trying to parlay a U.S. Food and Drug
Administration request for additional testing of that medicine
into grounds for reducing the price Abbott paid for exclusive
rights to distribute an FDA-approved forerunner, Synagis,
outside the U.S.  In a complaint filed in federal court in Greenbelt,
Maryland, on Aug. 21, MedImmune asked for findings that it is
under no obligation to discontinue development of Numax, and
that the event that would have triggered a reduction in the
price Abbott must pay for distributing Synagis hasn’t happened.  “We disagree with MedImmune’s interpretation of the
contract and are working to resolve the matter, Adelle Infante,
a spokeswoman for  Abbott Park , Illinois-based  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) , said in an e-mailed statement.  AstraZeneca is based in London. Its MedImmune unit is based
in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  The case is MedImmune LLC v. Abbott International LLC
11cv2329, U.S. District Court, District of Maryland (Greenbelt).  Temple-Inland Drops as Guaranty’s Trustee Sues for $1 Billion  Temple-Inland Inc., the cardboard maker fighting a $3.31
billion takeover bid from  International Paper Co. (IP) , fell $3.49,
or 14.06 percent, to $21.33 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, the biggest decline since March
2009.  The lawsuit claims that Temple-Inland, which spun off
 Guaranty Financial Group Inc. (GFGFQ)  in 2007, and the former
subsidary’s directors and officials caused its failure ‘‘by
fraudulently looting” assets exceeding $1 billion. The suit was
filed in federal court in Dallas Aug. 22 by Kenneth L. Tepper,
the liquidation trustee for Guaranty Financial.  “We do not believe that we have any liability related to
the spinoff of Guaranty Financial Group,” Temple-Inland, based
in Austin Texas, said in a regulatory filing yesterday. “The
company believes that the claims made in this lawsuit are
without merit and intends to defend them vigorously.”  The lawsuit claims Guarantee Bank was operated as “a
captive finance arm of Temple-Inland’s manufacturing operation”
and made risky loans to Temple-Inland customers to sell building
products.  The lawsuit also claims that Temple-Inland spun off
Guaranty Financial Group after stripping its assets, to avoid
“a disastrous cross-default on Temple-Inland’s own debt
obligations.” This left Guaranty Financial Group, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. and U.S. taxpayers to “suffer the
enormous losses defendants created,” according to the lawsuit.  The suit comes after International Paper, the world’s
largest paper maker, this month extended its $30.60-a-share
offer to acquire Temple-Inland to Sept. 8. Temple-Inland
rejected the offer, saying on July 18 it “grossly” undervalues
the company.  The lawsuit is Tepper v.  Temple-Inland Inc. (TIN) , 3:11-cv-02088,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  HP Accuses AU Optronics of Display Panel Price Fixing in Lawsuit  Hewlett-Packard Co. has accused  AU Optronics Corp. (AUO)  of
conspiring to fix prices of thin-film transistor liquid crystal
display panels in a complaint filed Aug. 19 in federal court in
 San Francisco . The lawsuit was filed under seal because of the
confidential information about the company’s process for
procuring LCD panels.  The lawsuit relates to a pending case filed by purchasers
of the screens, used in personal computers, televisions and
mobile devices, against LCD makers.  Yawen Hsiao, a spokeswoman for AUO, wasn’t immediately
aware of the complaint when contacted by phone yesterday. She
declined to comment further.  AUO, Taiwan’s second-largest maker of LCDs, and six of its
executives were indicted last year for allegedly conspiring to
fix prices of flat-panel screens sold worldwide, the Justice
Department said in June 2010. The conspiracy ran from 2001 to
2006, the agency said.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and HP were among
the companies directly affected by the alleged scheme, the
agency said.  AUO, based in Hsinchu, Taiwan, said at the time “the facts
of the case do not warrant such charges.”  The case is  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  v.  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) ,
11-4116, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  Trials/Appeals  Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Butler Is Resentenced to Five Years  Former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker  Eric Butler , convicted
by a jury of securities fraud in 2009, won’t have his prison
sentence extended after pleading guilty to seven wire-fraud
counts stemming from the same actions.  Butler, 39, was resentenced to five years in prison
yesterday by U.S. District Judge Jack B. Weinstein in Brooklyn,
New York, and ordered to surrender Sept. 9 at the federal prison
in Fort Dix, New Jersey. In January 2010, the judge imposed the
same penalty for Butler’s jury convictions for securities fraud,
conspiracy to commit securities fraud and conspiracy to commit
wire fraud.  “I regret my actions,” Butler told Weinstein before he
was sentenced.  Butler and his partner, Julian Tzolov, were convicted in
2009 of intentionally misleading clients about securities
purchased on their behalf.  The federal appeals court in Manhattan in June overturned
Butler’s securities-fraud conviction, saying it should have been
tried in federal court in Manhattan rather than in Brooklyn. It
upheld his two conspiracy convictions. Butler then successfully
got the wire-fraud counts moved to Brooklyn and consented to
having the securities-fraud count there as well. He also pleaded
guilty to the securities-fraud count.  The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 