-- 
Switzerland Franc Reverses Gain After U.S. Durable Goods Orders Increased

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-08-24T16:19:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/switzerland-s-franc-extends-its-gains-against-the-dollar-and-the-euro.html
Switzerland ’s franc fell against the
dollar, reversing earlier gains, after U.S. data showed durable-
goods orders rose, calming concern that the world’s largest
economy might be stalling.  The franc also declined against the Swedish krona and the
Norwegian krone. Bookings for U.S. goods meant to last at least
three years rose 4 percent, the most in four months, boosted by
demand for aircraft and autos. The currency has fluctuated
between losses and gains this week as investors weighed whether
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will announce further
monetary stimulus measures this week at a meeting in  Jackson
Hole , Wyoming, on Aug. 26.  “People in the market seem to be scaling back on
pessimism,” said  Adam Cole , the head of currency strategy at
RBC Capital Markets in  London . “The data out of the U.S.
helped. And some people are adjusting positions ahead of the
weekend. No one wants to be on the wrong side of the Fed.”  The franc weakened 0.4 percent to 79.51 centimes per dollar
at 5:05 p.m. in London. It depreciated to 1.1458 per euro after
strengthening to as much as 1.1372 earlier. The franc declined
to 96.54 yen, from 96.76 yesterday.  The spread between yields on 10-year German bunds and
similar-maturity Swiss debt widened to 120 basis points from 113
at the start of the week as investors preferred the debt of the
smaller country, which doesn’t need to contribute to the bailout
of other European nations.  Swiss two-year yields fell three basis points to minus 0.01
percent. A negative yield indicates investors are willing to
sacrifice capital for safety. Five-year yields were little
changed at 0.51 percent.  Swiss  government bonds  have handed investors a 2.9 percent
return so far this month, beating a 2.7 percent gain from German
bonds, according to indexes compiled by the European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  