-- 
Switzerland Agrees to Pay $629 Million to U.K. to End Tax-Evasion Dispute

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-08-24T23:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/switzerland-u-k-agree-to-settlement-in-tax-evasion-dispute.html
Switzerland  and the U.K. reached an
agreement to end a dispute over tax evasion by wealthy Britons
holding offshore accounts with Swiss private banks.  Swiss banks will pay 500 million Swiss francs ($629
million) to the U.K. government to cover the failure by their
clients to disclose undeclared money in the past, the two
countries’ finance ministries said yesterday. The banks will
later be reimbursed from taxes paid by their customers.  “The days when it was easy to stash the profits of tax
evasion in Switzerland are over,” U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said in an e-mailed statement. “We
will be as tough on the richest who evade tax as on those who
cheat on benefits.”  The accord comes after Switzerland agreed in March 2009 to
meet international standards to avoid being blacklisted as a tax
haven by the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development . The settlement may trigger outflows by Britons who
question the value of cross-border accounts as Swiss banking
secrecy crumbles and follows a similar agreement with  Germany 
earlier this month.  The accord “respects the protection of bank clients’
privacy, but also ensures the implementation of legitimate tax
claims,” the Swiss  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed
statement from the capital, Bern.  Withholding Tax  Swiss banks will levy a withholding tax of 48 percent on
investment income and 27 percent on  capital gains  earned by
Britons with offshore accounts, according to the two
governments. Revenue generated will go to the British Treasury,
while client identities remain secret.  The initialed tax agreement should be signed by both
governments in the next few months and is expected to come into
force in 2013, the Treasury said.  The tax on assets from the past ranges from 19 percent to
34 percent, depending on the duration of the client relationship
and the initial and final amount of capital, the Swiss ministry
said, without giving further details. The U.K. expects to raise
more than 5 billion pounds ($8 billion) from the one-off levy.  “A few years ago, nobody would have anticipated that we
would conclude an agreement with Switzerland to tackle  tax
evasion ,” said Dave Hartnett, permanent secretary for tax at
the U.K.  Revenue and Customs  agency, who was in Zurich to
initial the deal. “We will secure significant sums of tax that
some had thought we would never see.”  Fishing Not Allowed  To prevent new, undeclared funds from being deposited in
Switzerland, U.K. authorities can submit requests for
information that must state the name of the client, though not
necessarily the bank’s name, the Finance Ministry said. The
number of requests will be limited to 500 a year and so-called
fishing expeditions aren’t permissible.  “The vast majority of folks are seeking peace of mind and
regularizing their tax affairs,” Heather Taylor, a senior tax
manager at accountancy firm  Grant Thornton  in Birmingham,
central  England , said before the accord was announced.  Switzerland is the world’s biggest center for offshore
wealth with about 1.96 trillion francs of assets last year,
according to  Boston Consulting Group .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  