-- 
Syrian Forces Kill Protesters as Demands for UN Sanctions Gather Momentum

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-08-24T21:24:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/syrian-forces-kills-protesters-as-calls-for-un-sanctions-gather-momentum.html
Syrian security forces killed at
least 15 anti-government protesters since yesterday as the U.S.
and its European allies sought to freeze President Bashar al- Assad’s assets and impose an arms embargo on the country.  At least three protesters were shot dead today in the
central city of Homs, while yesterday’s deaths took place across
the Hama governorate, Homs and the northern province of Idlib,
Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights,
said by phone.  The U.S., Britain and France yesterday circulated a draft
resolution to United Nations Security Council members that would
freeze the foreign assets of Assad, his brother Maher, who
commands a Syrian army division, and 21 other senior government
officials. The president was excluded from the list of 22
officials whose travel from Syria would be barred.  Assad has used tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and
helicopters to crush the most serious threat to his family’s 40-
year rule. The uprisings began in mid-March after revolts ousted
the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  and sparked conflict in  Libya .  There were nationwide protests late yesterday in the
Damascus suburbs of Harasta, Kisweh and Douma and in the town of
Zabadani, near the border with Lebanon, Merhi said today.  Ten protesters were killed Aug. 22 in Hama, Homs, Aleppo
and the southern area of Daraa, where rallies against Assad’s
rule began, according to Merhi and Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria.  Targeted by Proposal  The proposal for UN action also would freeze the assets of
the Syrian General Intelligence Directorate, the Military
Housing Establishment and two entities that are described as
funding Assad’s regime -- Al Mashreq Investment and Bena
Properties. Sale of weaponry to  Syria  and the purchase of arms
by his government would be banned, and all nations would be
urged to inspect cargo going to or from Syria when there is
reason to believe it might contain embargoed goods.  Russia  today expressed a “strongly negative attitude”
toward the draft resolution, Russian Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin 
told reporters after a Security Council meeting.  “We just believe it is the wrong course of action,”
Churkin said. “We think it is only going to exacerbate the
rifts in Syria and encourage further confrontation. We think
that it is important to encourage reforms and give credit to
reforms.”  China’s Deputy Ambassador Wang Min said his government was
studying the text.  ‘Systematic’ Violations  Some members of the largely fragmented Syrian opposition
yesterday said from Istanbul that they had formed a so-called
National Council to coordinate their activities and present a
 united front  against Assad’s rule. One faction, the Antalya
Group, announced it was withdrawing from the talks.  The  UN Human Rights Council  yesterday ordered an
investigation into the crackdown on protesters, including
possible crimes against humanity. The council condemned what it
called “continued grave and systematic human-rights violations
by Syrian authorities, such as arbitrary executions, excessive
use of force and the killing and persecution of protesters and
human-rights defenders.”  Assad told UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on Aug. 18 that
security operations had stopped. A day later, 40 protesters were
killed in Homs, Daraa and a suburb of Damascus, according to
Merhi and Qurabi.  “It’s troubling that he has not kept his word,” Ban told
reporters in  New York  on Aug. 22.  Russia Rejects Demands  In Russia, the foreign-affairs committee chief in the lower
house of parliament warned that efforts by western nations to
force regime change in Syria after intervening to oust Qaddafi
risk triggering the country’s collapse. Russia this week
rejected demands from the U.S. and the EU for Assad to quit.  “I would advise all countries thinking about Syria to keep
in mind the negative example of Libya,” the lawmaker,Konstantin Kosachyov, said in telephone interview in Moscow two
days ago. “The risk of civil war there is even greater than in
Libya, which would lead to the collapse of the country.”  At least 2,400 people have been killed since the protests
started, according to Merhi’s and Qurabi’s organizations. The UN
puts the death toll at more than 2,200. At least 500 members of
the security forces have died, the government has said.  Assad, who succeeded his father as president after his
death in 2000, has blamed the protests on foreign-inspired
plots. In an interview on state television from Damascus on Aug.
21, he rejected U.S. and European demands to step down and
pledged to schedule parliamentary elections by February and
review the constitution. He called the U.S. and European nations
“colonialist” powers that want to violate Syria’s sovereignty.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , in a coordinated move with
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and European Union
foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton , issued a statement on
Aug. 18 saying Assad should leave and let Syrians chart their
own political future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 