-- 
U.K. Stocks Rally on U.S. Goods Orders; RBS, Glencore Advance

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-08-24T16:33:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/u-k-stocks-fluctuate-as-admiral-diageo-serco-decline-wpp-man-advance.html
U.K. stocks climbed for a third day,
led by a rally in banks and basic-resources companies, after
U.S. durable-goods orders data helped eased concern that the
world’s largest economy is slipping into recession.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  jumped 9.4 percent and
Glencore International Plc, the world’s largest listed
commodities trader, surged 6 percent.  WPP Plc (WPP)  advanced 7.4
percent after the world’s biggest advertising company reported
better-than-estimated profit.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  increased 76.43, or 1.5 percent, to
5,205.85 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, after fluctuating
between gains and losses more than 10 times. The gauge slumped
5.3 percent last week after European and U.S. reports trailed
economists’ forecasts, adding to concern the global economy is
at risk. The broader  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  climbed 1.4 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 1.3 percent.  “What we have seen is investors willing to cling to every
ounce of positivity out there to buy stocks for fear of missing
out,” said Giles Watts, head of equities at City Index in
 London . The U.S. data has “boosted near-term sentiment.”  A report today showed orders for U.S. durable goods climbed
more than forecast in July as a surge in demand for aircraft and
autos eclipsed a decrease in business equipment. A separate
release showed U.S. home prices rose 0.9 percent in June from
the prior month, the biggest gain since 2005.  Jackson Hole   Shares have also advanced this week amid speculation the
Federal Reserve may announce further measures to boost the
economy. Central bankers meet this weekend in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming. At last year’s event, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
hinted at a second round of asset purchases, spurring a 28
percent jump in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index through April.  RBS led banks higher, surging 9.4 percent to 21.87 pence.
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  climbed 6.4 percent to 30.11 pence and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  advanced 2.9 percent to 149.6 pence.  Glencore, which is scheduled to report first half results
tomorrow, jumped 6 percent to 389.6 pence. Xstrata Plc, which is
34 percent owned by Glencore, rallied 5.2 percent to 986.5
pence.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  advanced 2.3 percent to 1,932.5 pence as
the world’s largest mining company reported a record second-half
profit of $13.1 billion, beating analyst estimates.  The company’s Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  said
it has capacity on its balance sheet for opportunistic mergers
and acquisitions and may target copper, energy and potash.  WPP Gains  WPP rallied 7.4 percent to 623 pence after reporting first-
half profit of 517.9 million pounds ($853 million) on growth in
Asia and Latin America. That beat the 512.6 million-pound
average analyst estimate.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  surged 10 percent to 216.1 pence, making it
the biggest gainer on the FTSE 100. HSBC Holdings Plc today
raised its recommendation for the hedge-fund manager to
“overweight” from “underweight,” citing a “stellar
performance” from the AHL Diversified Plc computer-driven
investment program since the end of June.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  soared 8.4 percent to 1,026 pence after the
energy producer said first-half net income more than tripled to
$330 million as oil production from Ghana boosted revenue. The
company also doubled its interim dividend to 4 pence a share and
announced plans to invest at least $4 billion, with its
partners, to develop new oil fields off Ghana’s Atlantic coast.  Admiral Sinks  Admiral Group Plc (ADM)  tumbled 12 percent to 1,353 pence, its
biggest drop since 2008. The U.K. car insurer that owns the
Confused.com website posted first-half pretax profit that missed
analyst estimates after it held back more cash to cover claims
from previous years.  Investec Securities reiterated its “sell” recommendation
for the shares, saying they are “too expensive.”  Serco Group Plc (SRP)  fell 4 percent to 511 pence even after
first-half profit increased. The operator of London’s Docklands
Light Railway said the “U.S. federal market faces new risk of
further delays” and the “impact of austerity measures in the
U.K. may also continue.”  “The net impact of Serco’s results today will be to prompt
some lower expectation of full-year organic growth,” David Brockton, an analyst at Banco Espirito Santo SA, wrote in a
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  