-- 
U.K. Consumer Confidence Declines to Three-Month Low as Recovery Falters

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-24T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/u-k-consumer-confidence-declines-to-three-month-low-as-recovery-falters.html
U.K. consumer confidence fell to a
three-month low in July as Britons grew more pessimistic about
the outlook for the economy,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  An index of sentiment declined 2 points to 49 from June,
the lowest reading since April, the Swindon, England-based
customer-owned lender said in an e-mailed report today. A gauge
of consumers’ future expectations for the economy in the next
six months slipped 3 points to 67.  Confidence may drop further after the U.K. had its worst
rioting since the 1980s and concern about the European debt
crisis and a cooling global economic recovery wiped trillions of
dollars off equity markets, Nationwide said. The  Bank of England 
kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low this month as
the faltering recovery outweighed the risk of inflation.  “With the economic recovery still facing strong headwinds,
it is unlikely that we will see any considerable improvement in
confidence in the remainder of 2011,” said  Robert Gardner ,
Nationwide’s chief economist. “With consumers continuing to
expect a fall in  house prices  over the next six months, it is
perhaps unsurprising they are expressing reservations toward
making substantial financial commitments at the present time.”  Job Woes  U.K. inflation is outpacing wage growth, putting pressure
on household incomes at a time when government budget cuts are
fueling concerns about rising unemployment. Britons’ pay growth
was unchanged at 2.5 percent in the three months through July
from the previous quarter, Incomes Data Services said today,
while consumer-price gains were an annual 4.4 percent.  A gauge of whether Britons think it’s a good time to buy
household goods or make major purchases such as a car or a home
fell 1 point to 73 in July, Nationwide said. A measure of their
view of the current economic situation was unchanged at 23.  Today’s report showed that Britons became more pessimistic
about the housing market last month. They expect the value of
their home to drop 0.4 percent in the following six months,
compared with a prediction of a 0.3 percent decline in June.  Nationwide questioned 1,000 people for the survey between
June 27 and July 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  