-- 
U.S. Stocks Snap Three-Day Rally Amid German Selloff, Unemployment Report

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-25T20:22:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/u-s-stock-futures-retreat-after-jobs-resigns-as-apple-s-chief-executive.html
U.S. stocks fell, snapping a three-
day rally, after jobless claims unexpectedly increased and
selling in German futures sparked a rout in global equities.  Financial shares in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index erased
a gain of as much as 4.8 percent.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the
biggest U.S. lender, surged 9.4 percent after saying  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  will invest $5 billion to
bolster the company.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  decreased 0.7 percent after
Steve Jobs resigned as chief executive officer.  The  S&P 500  fell 1.6 percent to 1,159.27 at 4 p.m. in  New
York . The benchmark gauge rallied 4.8 percent during the
previous three days. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  declined
170.89 points, or 1.5 percent, to 11,149.82 today.  “We’re not out of the woods and the market is reflecting
that,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of asset allocation
for ING Investment Management, said in a telephone interview.
His firm oversees $550 billion. “The European situation is
still a mess. Sometimes these markets get hit because they are
the most liquid. If you want to dump risk quickly in Europe,
shorting Germany is probably the best way to do it. The market
bounced over the last few days because we were so oversold, but
the economic fundamentals did not change.”  When U.S. exchanges opened, the S&P 500 advanced as much as
1.1 percent after Berkshire Hathaway agreed to buy Bank of
America cumulative perpetual preferred stock that pays an annual
dividend of 6 percent. At the same time, Nasdaq-100 Index
futures erased losses that had been driven by Jobs’s resignation
as Apple’s chief executive officer.  Declines Intensify  Declines in stocks intensified at about 9:45 a.m. New York
time, as Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 4 percent in 15 minutes. A
report at 8:30 a.m. showed an unexpected increase in American
jobless claims.  Traders sold German equity futures to hedge their
investments before France, Italy and Spain extended curbs on
short selling. The selling of DAX futures lifted volume to a
quarter of the daily average within a 30-minute period. That
dragged down the index, pulling equities in the U.S. and
throughout Europe lower, and drove Treasuries and the dollar
higher. After European markets closed, French, Italian and
Spanish stock-market regulators announced the extension of the
short-selling bans introduced this month.  Nobel-prize winning economist Joseph Stiglitz said the
chances of the  U.S. economy  going back into recession are “very
high,” speaking at a conference today in Lindau,  Germany . The
city of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, said it may miss a $3.3
million bond payment on Sept. 15.  ‘Mishmash’  “It’s such a mishmash,”  Hank Smith , chief investment
officer at Haverford Trust Co. in Radnor, Pennsylvania, said in
a telephone interview. His firm manages about $6.5 billion.
“You have Buffett investing in Bank of America, which is a bet
on the U.S. economy. Still, the employment picture is not a good
one,” he said. “Then, there’s the European debt crisis. If
global growth slows, that could be more of an issue.”  Investors are awaiting a speech by Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, tomorrow for any
indications of whether the central bank will embark on further
stimulus.  “The markets have been very sensitive to every piece of
economic data,”  Keith Wirtz , the Cincinnati-based chief
investment officer at Fifth Third Asset Management, which
oversees $16.7 billion, said in a telephone interview. “You
still got an indication that we have a poor labor market. It
seems that the recent stock performance has been supported by
expectations of QE3. If there’s no indication tomorrow, this
market may retrace.”  Jobless Claims  Stock futures reversed gains as jobless claims climbed by
5,000 to 417,000 in the week ended Aug. 20, Labor Department
figures showed today in Washington. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected a drop in claims to 405,000, according
to the median forecast. Claims were pushed up for a second time
by a labor dispute at  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   Data tomorrow may indicate the world’s biggest economy grew
1.1 percent in the second quarter, down from a previous estimate
of 1.3 percent, according to the median of 80 forecasts in a
separate survey.  Bank of America rose 9.4 percent to $7.65, while financial
stocks in the S&P 500 lost 0.5 percent. Apple fell 0.7 percent
to $373.72, after dropping as much as 3 percent earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  