-- 
Banks in U.S. Face Main Street Squeeze as Sputtering Economy Saps Earnings

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-08-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/u-s-banks-facing-main-street-squeeze-as-economy-saps-earnings.html
Two U.S. Treasury secretaries and
 Federal Reserve  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke provided capital and
cheap loans to banks during the last three years to help fuel an
economic revival. It hasn’t worked out.  While those policies benefited  Wall Street , they failed to
produce a sustained recovery on Main Street, where unemployment
remains more than 9 percent. Now the sputtering  U.S. economy  may
sap bank earnings and Wall Street bonuses.  Profit estimates for companies including  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  have been slashed as much as 30 percent following a report
showing weaker-than-expected growth in first-half gross domestic
product and after the Federal Reserve said it plans to leave
benchmark borrowing costs at historic lows for two years. The
24-member  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  has dropped 21 percent since July 28,
the day before the latest GDP figures were reported, compared
with an 11 percent decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “The political class is fixated on how the banking system
caused the problem in the first place and therefore how it will
have to cure it in the future -- that if you get the banks
working again the economy works,” said Robert B. Albertson,
chief strategist at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York .
“It drives me into silly laughter. It’s the other way around.”  Earnings Decline  Combined first-half earnings at the 15 largest U.S. banks
by assets dropped 17 percent from a year earlier, led by a
decline at four of the six biggest. While the average estimates
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg show they still expect second-
half earnings at the 15 lenders to climb 88 percent from the
same period in 2010, stock prices trading below book value at 12
of those firms indicate investors aren’t so sure.  “I don’t think economic reality has hit estimates yet,”
said Matthew D. McCormick, a portfolio manager at Cincinnati-
based Bahl & Gaynor Inc. who helps manage about $4 billion and
doesn’t own the biggest U.S. bank stocks. “Trading revenues are
abysmal, and you’re looking at net-interest-margin
compression,” he said. “I’ve got to believe that this is going
to be a tough quarter.”  Bank of America, the largest U.S. bank by assets, has
dropped 53 percent in New York Stock Exchange composite trading
this year and closed yesterday at $6.30, or 31 percent of the
bank’s book value per share at the end of June.  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest bank, has fallen 18 percent to $34.78,
compared with a book value per share of $44.77 in June.  “We reiterate our ‘negative’ outlook on the sector due to
poor visibility on new loan volumes, revenue and earnings, as
well as continued Fed zero interest rate policy,” Christopher Whalen, a former Federal Reserve Bank of New York analyst and
co-founder of Institutional Risk Analytics in Torrance,
California, said in an Aug. 19 note to investors.  Fed Rescue  The banking system and the economy might be in worse shape
if it weren’t for the policies of Bernanke, former U.S. Treasury
Secretary Henry M. Paulson and his successor  Timothy F. Geithner . The Fed provided as much as $1.2 trillion in loans to
banks and other companies beginning in August 2007, slashed its
main U.S. interest rate as low as zero in December 2008 and has
engaged in two rounds of purchasing bonds in what’s known as
quantitative easing. In October 2008, Treasury began injecting
equity capital into banks by purchasing preferred stock.  U.S. banks are better prepared to withstand a crisis than
in 2008 because of the capital and liquid assets they’ve
accumulated, according to analysts including  Richard Ramsden  at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in New York.  “Capital levels are at historic highs, funding mixes are
much improved, and leveraged losses have already been largely
written off,” Ramsden and his team wrote in an Aug. 11 note to
investors. “The risk to bank earnings from here therefore
appears to be more about an extended low-rate, low-growth
environment.”  ‘Slower Pace’  U.S. GDP grew at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the second
quarter, less than the 1.8 percent average forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, and 0.4 percent in the
first quarter, the Commerce Department reported July 29.  Eleven days later, the Federal Open Market Committee said
it “now expects a somewhat slower pace of recovery over coming
quarters” and that “downside risks to the economic outlook
have increased.” These conditions “are likely to warrant
exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least
through mid-2013,” the FOMC said on Aug. 9.  ‘Negative Feedback Loop’  The U.S. and  Europe  are “dangerously close to recession,”
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts including Chetan Ahya said in a note to
investors on Aug. 18. “A negative feedback loop between weak
growth and soggy asset markets now appears to be in the making
in Europe and the U.S.”  Feeble economic growth has reduced demand for loans from
consumers and businesses, and low interest rates are compressing
profit banks can reap from credit they make available.  “Interest rates at these levels basically squash your
deposits and funding costs to a floor that it can’t go through
while your yield on assets such as securities and loans get
pushed down even further and so you get a margin squeeze,” said
Sandler O’Neill’s Albertson. “Rates are too low, and the
economy’s too weak.”  Net interest income, the difference between what banks pay
to borrow and charge to lend, accounted for 54 percent of the
combined revenue at Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the four biggest U.S. banks by
assets, in the first half of this year.  ‘Taking Market Share’  “Right now, if there is a bank that’s successful it’s more
that they’ve been taking market share away from their peers,”
said Peter Kovalski, a portfolio manager and bank industry
analyst at Alpine Woods Capital Investors LLC in Purchase, New
York, who manages about $6 billion. “The overall pie hasn’t
increased yet. We need to see some sustained economic growth
before that happens.”  Kovalski said he’s steering clear of the biggest U.S. banks
and instead owns stock in smaller lenders such as Atlanta-based
 SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  and Cleveland-based  KeyCorp (KEY)  that he says
have better growth prospects and trade at lower valuations.  The day after the Fed’s statement, Deutsche Bank AG
analysts, led by Matt O’Connor, said in a report to investors
that the weaker economic outlook and rate environment meant
estimates for banks’ earnings per share may need to be lowered
by as much as 30 percent. Analysts at Goldman Sachs,
International Strategy & Investment Group Inc. and London-based
 Atlantic Equities LLP  followed with their own reductions.  “Meaningful loan growth is likely to remain challenged for
the majority of banks absent any material market share gains,”
Ramsden’s team wrote on Aug. 11. Bank net interest margins “are
unlikely to be able to rise as lower yielding assets become a
larger part of the total book and funding costs reach a floor.”  ‘Revenue Recession’  ISI’s Edward Najarian, in an Aug. 12 note, said he expects
“banks will remain in a revenue recession” and cut his second-
half earnings-per-share forecasts for 10 banks by a median 7
percent. Richard Staite, an analyst at Atlantic Equities in
 London , trimmed his 2012 revenue estimates by as little as 1.3
percent for Citigroup and as much as 3.5 percent for Bank of
America in an Aug. 17 note.  In its quarterly banking profile yesterday, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. said that second-quarter earnings at
7,513 insured institutions posted a year-on-year increase for
the eighth consecutive quarter. The rise stemmed from a drop in
provisions for loan losses; net operating revenue was lower than
a year ago for the second quarter in a row, the FDIC said.  Fixed-Income Trading  Revenue at the biggest banks is unlikely to be boosted by
their Wall Street activities. Fixed-income trading, which fueled
2009 revenue growth at the four largest U.S. banks as well as
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, has been weaker in the last
year. First-half investment-banking and trading revenue declined
to $91 billion at the top 10 global banks from $93 billion a
year earlier, according to an Aug. 16 report from industry
consultant Coalition Ltd.  Banks’ revenue from trading stocks and bonds will probably
be 8 percent to 10 percent lower this year than forecast because
of the dimmer growth outlook and declines in interest rates and
stock markets, estimated ISI’s Najarian.  Trading-desk profitability also has been hurt by
regulators’ demands that lenders hold more capital and by rules
imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act, Ralph Schlosstein, chief
executive officer at New York-based investment bank  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR) , said in an Aug. 11 interview with Bloomberg
television. The changes mean traders can’t earn as much profit
as they used to for each dollar of equity capital, he said.  “Step one is going to be an attempt on the institutions’
part to redraw the line between the employees and the
shareholders to try to bring that return on equity back up,”
Schlosstein said. “It will be done first by headcount
reductions and second, I suspect, it will also have an impact on
compensation in those firms as well.”  Job Cuts  Coalition’s report estimates that the largest Wall Street
firms will cut about 5 percent of their revenue-producing
employees in the second half of the year. The 50 biggest banks,
including HSBC Holdings Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG and Bank of
America, announced almost 60,000 job cuts through the first week
of August, according to company statements and data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, said yesterday that it
will cut about 3,500 jobs, or 5.3 percent of its workforce, to
reduce expenses. Bank of America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  said in a
memo to senior managers on Aug. 19 that the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based bank will eliminate about 3,500 jobs this quarter
in addition to 2,500 cuts made earlier in the year.  “While the markets reflect many economic factors we cannot
control, we must stay focused on what we can control,”
Moynihan, 51, said in the memo.  Shrinking Bonuses  Year-end bonuses for fixed-income traders and salespeople
across Wall Street are likely to fall 20 percent to 30 percent
from last year,  Johnson Associates Inc. , a New York-based
compensation consulting firm, estimated on Aug. 12.  Even though he cut his estimate for JPMorgan’s 2012 revenue
by 2.4 percent, Atlantic Equities’ Staite raised his
recommendation on the stock to “overweight” because he thinks
the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets has an opportunity to win
market share, especially against European banks that may pull
back because of that region’s sovereign debt crisis.  “JPMorgan’s still on the front foot, they grew their
market share during the crisis, and that will continue for the
foreseeable future, or at least for as long as we have
continuing uncertainties in Europe,” Staite said in a telephone
interview. Even in the U.S. “they have a program to open 2,000
new branches, so you’re seeing them expand across all of their
business lines.”  JPMorgan, Citigroup  JPMorgan, unlike rivals Bank of America and Goldman Sachs,
hasn’t announced plans to cut jobs. The average estimate of 21
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is for the New York-based bank to
report record profit of $20.8 billion this year.  JPMorgan is sticking by its European clients and hopes to
benefit from that, Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon, 55, told
analysts on July 14.  “Our current thinking is that we’re going to continue to
do business there and manage those exposures,” he said. “We’re
not trying to drive them down. And I hope that one day some of
these European nations appreciate the fact we’re not cutting and
running.”  Citigroup, the third-biggest bank by assets, will also be
less affected than rivals by the U.S. economy, Staite said.
Citigroup CEO Vikram S. Pandit, 54, has said the New York-based
bank derives more than half its ongoing profit, which excludes
businesses tagged for sale or closure, from emerging markets.  European banks “will maybe rein in some of their growth
ambitions for Asia, and Citigroup, which already has a strong
business in these areas, will hold on to their market share,”
Staite said. “I still see emerging markets as a positive story
for Citigroup.”  ‘Chicken and Egg’  Most bank stock prices have fallen further than even the
gloomier earnings outlooks warrant, said Sandler O’Neill’s
Albertson. They’re also failing to factor in the potential for
market-share gains and the possibility that banks start to make
some of the real estate and consumer loans that had become the
purview of the so-called shadow banking system in recent years.  Still, investors will need to continue to look at the
economy itself for signs that banks’ prospects are really
brightening, Albertson said.  “Lending does not create economic growth,” he said.
“Economic growth creates lending. It’s not a chicken and egg.
You can tell what the lead is. The lead is the growth itself --
the growth in incomes and earnings from individuals and
companies that allow them to take more debt to buy more or
invest more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 