-- 
U.S. Falls Behind in Race Toward Open Government: Susan Crawford

-- B y   S u s a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-08-24T00:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/u-s-falls-behind-in-race-toward-open-government-susan-crawford.html
When  Brazil ’s government buys
anything from fighter jets to a fancy villa, details are
available  online  within 24 hours. Such disclosures are a
powerful way to combat corruption, and are a model for
official openness that could inspire other nations.  Brazil’s online portal started in 2004. Among its
contents: information about Brazilian outlays in advance of
hosting the  2014 World Cup  and the  2016 Olympic Games . The
site includes an online channel for whistleblower
complaints.  Because corruption is a major problem in Brazil,
timely release of spending data, including daily
information about the use of government credit cards, is
designed to help the media and opposition politicians in
Brazil reveal crooked behavior. If a minister buys a
truckload of wine with her government card, or pays off a
cousin, someone will notice.  Enthusiasm for open government is taking hold not just
in Brazil, but in countries such as  Kenya ,  India  and the
U.K.  Kenya  last month became the first sub-Saharan African
country to launch a government-data portal. India is a
beehive of activity; it has initiated ambitious plans for
providing public services with the help of mobile phones in
rural areas and for  electronic citizen engagement  in
government generally.  Last month, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
instructed public agencies to release a flood of
 comparative public data : student achievement in schools by
subject; health outcomes by doctors’ practices; complaints
about National Health Service hospitals; quality of medical
education; and procurement spending for all transactions of
more than 500 pounds ($826).  Rare Consensus  At a time of antagonism and austerity in the U.K., the
importance of  government transparency  is the rare subject
on which there is substantial consensus.  Tim Kelsey, the U.K. government’s senior adviser on
transparency, believes open data can improve quality and
save money in public services. He points out that the
release of comparative heart-surgery data by the Society
for Cardiothoracic Surgery has led to a 50 percent
improvement since 2001 in the overall risk-adjusted death
rate for related procedures.  Open government is often misunderstood. Broadly, it
includes transparency, accountability, citizen engagement
in governance, innovation in the delivery of public
services, and use of technology, among other things. It’s
fair to say that many flavors of open government are
unfamiliar to many politicians.  Having the world watch what you do can be
uncomfortable. Despots loathe openness; their commandeering
ways depend on camouflage. Even in well-run democracies,
career civil servants often heave sighs of despair over
openness, seeing little benefit and knowing how difficult
it can be to put in place.  But there is nothing better than accessible
comparative data about public services to spur improvements
and increased professionalism. More generally, openness
supports richer connections between citizens and the state.
Next month, President  Barack Obama  will address a UN
General Assembly meeting to praise open government and
announce an  Open Government Partnership  led by Brazil and
the U.S. This atypical initiative isn’t focused on ranking
countries against set criteria, but instead broadly
encourages a huge range of innovative practices. A handful
of other countries --  South Africa ,  Norway ,  Mexico , the
 Philippines , and the U.K. -- are joining now. Dozens more
will follow.  Hanging Fire  As the Sept. 20 meeting gets closer, the press and
public will be watching. Co-chair Brazil hasn’t yet passed
a Freedom of Information law that has been hanging fire for
two years. Critics of the U.S.’s track record on opening up
government information are feeling cynical. Transparency
advocates wonder whether the U.S. is focusing on an
international process so as to divert attention from its
domestic failings.  This is a fragile moment for open government around
the world. Though it seems as if age-old challenges of
corruption and public distrust should be addressed with the
help of 21st-century tools, isolated reformers are battling
bureaucracies that have an interest in keeping public
information secret.  Entrenched governments grow fearful, wanting to avoid
rocking the boat and hoping to survive re-election
challenges. Even the muscular transparency of the
relatively new U.K. government may run into obstacles.  Building support for open government is crucial. A
competition to find the world’s most open governments could
provide needed nudges, including for the U.S. Countries
around the globe are racing ahead with open government; the
U.S. should feel fresh urgency to keep moving forward, too.  (Susan Crawford is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at Cardozo School of Law. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article: Susan Crawford at
 susancrawford@gmail.com , or @SCrawford on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
George Anders at   ganders1@bloomberg.net  