-- 
Treasuries Advance on Speculation Factory-Orders Gauge Dropped Last Month

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-24T11:10:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/u-s-30-year-bonds-lead-treasuries-higher-snapping-a-two-day-decline.html
Treasuries gained, with 30-year
bonds snapping a two-day decline, as U.S. equity futures
declined before a government report that economists said will
show a measure of factory orders dropped in July.  The longest maturities, those most sensitive to inflation,
led the advance as evidence increases that the  U.S. economy  is
slowing. The U.S. faces the threat of deflation, said John Brynjolfsson, chief investment officer at Armored Wolf LLC. The
government will auction $35 billion of five-year notes today and
$29 billion of seven-year debt tomorrow. Futures on the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index fell 1 percent today, after the U.S. stock
benchmark tumbled 13 percent in the past month.  “Treasuries are still very much hostage to the fortunes of
equities market and the equities market is not doing so well,”
said  Marc Ostwald , a London-based fixed-income strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. “They’re extremely choppy. Growth is
still very much playing into this scenario.”  Thirty-year bond yields fell four basis points to 3.45
percent as of 6:52 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 3.75 percent security due in August 2041 rose
21/32, or $6.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 105 12/32.  Ten-year yields slid two basis points to 2.13 percent,
approaching the all-time low of 1.97 percent set on Aug. 18.  Further Fed Measures  Yields on most Treasuries were near record lows amid
speculation Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will signal
in an Aug. 26 speech that policy makers are willing to take
further measures to prevent the U.S. returning to recession.  Orders for durable goods excluding transportation equipment
fell 0.5 percent in July, following a 0.4 percent gain in June,
a Bloomberg News survey of economists shows. Overall bookings
for goods meant to last at least three years, a more volatile
measure, rebounded 2 percent from a 1.9 percent decline the
month before, according to a separate survey.  Non-defense capital goods orders excluding aircraft, which
is a proxy for business investment in items such as computers,
engines and communications gear, is forecast to decline 1.6
percent, after gaining 0.4 in June.  “Anything that’s a big surprise will obviously have an
impact,” Ostwald said. “A set of even marginally positive
readings on those core metrics of ex-transport and non-defense
capital goods would probably elicit a very positive reaction
from the equity market and in turn that would see Treasuries
sell off a bit.”  The Treasury sold $35 billion of two-year notes at a record
low yield of 0.22 percent yesterday as investors sought the
shortest, safest tenors as a refuge from market turmoil.  Five-Year Sale  The five-year notes on offer today yielded 0.96 percent in
pre-auction trading, compared with 1.58 percent at the previous
sale on July 27. Investors bid for 2.62 times the securities on
offer last month.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was 1.98
percentage points. The spread narrowed to 1.96 percentage points
on Aug. 18, the least since Oct. 13. It has averaged 2.06
percentage points over the past five years.  Brynjolfsson said he is “worried about deflation,”
speaking yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance
Midday” with  Tom Keene . “There is a huge headwind on growth,”
said Brynjolfsson, who is based in  Aliso Viejo ,  California .  Treasury Bulls  Treasury bulls are in the minority. Most investors predict
yields will rise because the economy is still growing. A
Bloomberg survey of financial companies with more recent
forecasts given heavier weightings projects the 10-year yield
will climb to 2.74 percent by year-end. The pace of economic
expansion will quicken to 2.1 percent in the third quarter from
1.3 percent in the second, a separate survey showed.  “Long-term yields will rise,” said Tsutomu Komiya, who
helps oversee the equivalent of $120.8 billion as an investor in
 Tokyo  at Daiwa Asset Management Co., a unit of  Japan ’s second-
biggest brokerage by market value. “The economic data, while
not increasing remarkably, are gradually improving.”  Komiya pointed to unemployment, which declined to 9.1
percent in July from 9.5 percent a year earlier.  The current rate of inflation, 3.6 percent as measured by
the  consumer price index , means 10-year notes yield negative
1.47 percent after accounting for costs in the economy.  Short-term yields will be anchored by the Fed’s Aug. 9
pledge to keep its target for overnight borrowing between banks
low, Komiya said.  U.S. government securities have surged 3.1 percent this
month, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data, as investors
sought the security of debt while stocks tumbled. The MSCI All
Country World Index of stocks has handed investors a loss of
almost 12 percent since the end of July, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  