-- 
Companies Probably Ordered Fewer U.S. Durable Goods on Recovery Concern

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-08-24T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/u-s-durable-goods-orders-minus-transportation-probably-fell.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
excluding transportation equipment probably fell in July as
concern mounted about a slowing economic recovery, economists
said before a report today.  The projected 0.5 percent drop in the less-volatile measure
of orders would follow a 0.4 percent increase the prior month,
according to the median forecast of 50 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Overall bookings for goods meant to last at
least three years may have climbed 2 percent, boosted by a jump
in aircraft demand.  Some companies like  Dell Inc. (DELL)  have trimmed 2011 sales
projections as confidence in the economy soured, leading
consumers and businesses to pull back on demand. The risk that a
global slowdown will depress manufacturing, a mainstay of growth
since the end of the recession, helps explain why the Federal
Reserve said it is prepared to do more to spur growth.  “Business investment is suffering from weak sentiment and
an uncertain outlook,” said  David Semmens , a U.S. economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in  New York . “The recovery remains
lethargic. The Fed is worried about a more permanent slowdown”
beyond the temporary factors that restrained first-half growth.  The Commerce Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Survey estimates for bookings excluding the volatile
transportation category ranged from a decline of 1.5 percent to
an increase of 1 percent.  Total orders are projected to recover after a 1.9 percent
decrease in June. Estimates range from a 1 percent drop to a 7.5
percent surge.  Transportation Rebound  Today’s report may reflect a rebound in production at
vehicle makers following supply disruptions caused by the
earthquake in  Japan  in March, and a surge in aircraft bookings.
Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) , the world’s largest aerospace company,
said it received 115 orders in July, up from 48 in June.
Industry data may not correlate precisely with the government
statistics on a month-to-month basis.  A dimming outlook for manufacturing now is a concern as
much of the growth in the second quarter came from corporate
investment and trade, while  consumer spending , which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy, stagnated.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index, which
includes companies like Deere & Co., has slumped 22 percent from
the end of June to yesterday, while the broader S&P 500 gauge
has declined 12 percent.  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell, the second-largest personal-
computer maker, reduced sales projections for this year, citing
uncertain demand and slower spending on PCs and consumer
technology.  Weaker Demand  “It’s clear that the demand environment is weaker and a
bit more uncertain,” Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden said
on a conference call Aug. 16. The U.S. consumer business “has
gotten weaker for sure,” and federal contracts are taking
longer to close, while markets like China and  India  are growing,
he said.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  on Aug. 9
pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate  near zero until at
least mid-2013. Growth is “considerably slower” than
anticipated, the FOMC said in a statement. Officials “discussed
the range of policy tools” available and are “prepared to
employ those tools as appropriate.”  Recent data showed the manufacturing slowdown extended into
August. New York-region factories shrank for a third straight
month and manufacturing in the Philadelphia area contracted by
the most since March 2009, when the economy was in recession.  The  Federal Reserve  Bank of Richmond yesterday said its
business activity index dropped to minus 10 in August, the
weakest since June 2009, from minus 1 as orders contracted.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  