-- 
Home Prices in U.S. Decline 5.9% in Second Quarter, FHFA Says

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-24T15:21:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/u-s-home-prices-fell-5-9-in-second-quarter-as-foreclosures-depress-value.html
Home prices  in the U.S. fell 5.9
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the biggest
decline since 2009, as foreclosures added to the inventory of
properties for sale.  Prices dropped 0.6 percent from the prior three months, the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  said today in a report from
Washington. In June, prices retreated 4.3 percent from a year
earlier, while increasing 0.9 percent from the previous month.  Foreclosures are boosting the supply of properties on the
market and undercutting the confidence of homebuyers, sapping
demand even as mortgage rates tumble to the lowest in more than
half a century. The U.S. inventory of homes for sale averaged
3.7 million during the second quarter, the highest since the
third quarter of 2010, data from the National Association of
Realtors show. The mortgages on 6.5 million U.S. homes had late
payments or were in foreclosure in June, according to Lender
Processing Services Inc. in Jacksonville,  Florida .  “Foreclosures water down home prices because banks want to
get rid of properties as fast as they can,” said  Patrick Newport , an economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
Massachusetts. “The key number driving foreclosures is the
 unemployment rate , and we saw that worsen in the second
quarter.”  The unemployment rate in the three months ended June 30
rose to 9.1 percent from 8.9 percent, the first quarterly
increase since 2009, according to the Labor Department.  California, Nevada  Home prices in June fell the most in the region that
includes California, slumping 8 percent from a year earlier, the
FHFA said. They decreased 7.9 percent in the area that includes
Nevada and  Arizona .  The month-over-month gain in prices exceeded analysts’
forecast of 0.2 percent, the median of 16 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The region that includes Wisconsin, Illinois and Ohio
had the biggest increase from May, with a 3.3 percent rise.  Mortgage rates for 30-year fixed loans fell to 4.15 percent
last week, McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac said. The rate
probably will average 4.6 percent this year, lower than 2010’s
4.7 percent, according to  Fannie Mae  in Washington.  Sales of U.S. previously owned homes dropped in July,
reflecting an increase in contract cancellations due to strict
lending rules and low appraisals,  Lawrence Yun , chief economist
of the National Association of Realtors, said Aug. 18. Purchases
decreased 3.5 percent to a 4.67 million annual rate, the weakest
since November.  Today’s FHFA report measures changes in real estate values
using repeat data on individual properties with mortgages backed
by Fannie Mae or  Freddie Mac . It doesn’t include a dollar value
for homes. The U.S. median home price was $171,900 in the second
quarter, according to NAR.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 