-- 
U.S. Asks UN Security Council to Release $1.5 Billion for Libya

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-08-24T21:29:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/u-s-said-to-plan-release-at-un-of-1-5-bln-in-libyan-assets-1-.html
The U.S. asked the  United Nations 
 Security Council  today for permission to release $1.5 billion in
frozen  Libya  assets to help the rebels’ National Transitional
Council deliver aid and basic services to the war-torn nation.  The  Security Council  has scheduled a vote on the proposal
for tomorrow at 3 p.m. in  New York , pending the outcome of an
earlier meeting of the African Union to consider whether to
recognize the NTC. South Africa, a Security Council member,
doesn’t want the full $1.5 billion released before Africa Union
recognition is given.  The money is meant to be disbursed in three $500 million
appropriations, for emergency aid, fuel to provide electricity
and operate desalinization plants and for the health and
education needs of the Libyan people.  South Africa  blocked an initial U.S. request to release the
funds, made to the Security Council committee on Libyan
sanctions on Aug. 8. The initiative was put in resolution form
because, unlike the sanctions committee where unanimity is
needed, South Africa can’t block adoption of the measure.  “Our view is that there could be an implication that when
you release this money to entities aligned to one party to the
conflict you could be recognizing that entity,” South Africa’s
Ambassador Baso Sangqu told reporters. “In this situation in
flux, we have not yet made a determination as to who” should be
recognized as the Libya government.  Sangqu asked that the Security Council vote be taken after
the  African Union  meeting. He said his government might then
approve release of the money by the sanctions committee, which
would mean a vote wouldn’t be necessary.  Accountability  “Freezing is a lot easier than unfreezing,” said George
A. Lopez, a sanctions expert and professor of peace studies at
the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the
University of  Notre Dame  in  South Bend ,  Indiana . “The NTC is
still a nebulous quasi-entity and there will need to be a degree
of accountability. Freeing the assets, sure, but to who?”  The NTC is the rebel leadership group that the U.S. on July
15 recognized as Libya’s “legitimate governing authority.”  The $1.5 billion is a fraction of about $30 billion in
Libyan assets held in the U.S., which has been beyond the reach
of the rebels. A total of about $165 billion has been frozen
worldwide.  Most of the U.S.-frozen $30 billion is tied up in property
interests, including ownership interests in non-publicly traded
companies or real estate.  “Part of the difficulty here is that some of this money,
when you try to trace it back, you’re not exactly sure the chain
of custody,” State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told
reporters today in  Washington . “Some of it goes to the question
of the value of real estate,” which fluctuates, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net 
Flavia Krause-Jackson at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  