-- 
U.S. Deficit Estimated at $1.3 Trillion This Year, CBO Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-08-24T16:56:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/u-s-deficit-estimated-at-1-3-trillion-this-year.html
The  U.S. budget deficit  is projected
to be $1.3 trillion in the year ending Sept. 30, down from $1.4
trillion forecast in April, because of curbs on federal spending
and increased income-tax collections, the  Congressional Budget
Office  said.  The nonpartisan CBO, in its semiannual look at the nation’s
 fiscal health , projected the deficit for the subsequent 12-month
period through Sept. 30, 2012, at $973 billion, rather than the
$1.1 trillion forecast in April.  “The economy remains in a severe slump,” CBO Director
 Douglas Elmendorf  wrote on the agency’s  website . “CBO expects
that the recovery will continue” while the inflation-adjusted
gross domestic product “will stay well below the economy’s
potential” for several years, he said.  The CBO cited cuts in unemployment insurance, less spending
by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , and smaller-than-usual increases
in Medicare as it lowered this year’s projected deficit. In
addition, it said income-tax collections exceeded earlier
projections by $74 billion.  “The report validates the progress that’s been made and
validates the president’s assessment” that more needs to be
done to cut the nation’s long-term deficit,  Josh Earnest , a
White House spokesman, told reporters at a briefing on Martha’s
Vineyard, Massachusetts.  Super Committee  President Barack Obama next month plans to propose ideas to
a so-called super congressional committee on the deficit that
would go beyond the panel’s mandate to cut $1.5 trillion from
the long-term deficit.  The CBO said deficits will continue to shrink as the
economy improves, albeit slowly. It projected an 8.9 percent
 unemployment rate  in the fourth quarter and an 8.5 percent rate
in fourth quarter of 2012, when Obama will face re-election.  The CBO said unemployment will remain above 8 percent until
2014. The office also forecast a consumer price index rise of
1.5 percent from 2013 through 2016.  The inflation-adjusted gross domestic product is projected
to increase by 2.5 percent in the next fiscal year and 2 percent
in fiscal 2013 before increasing to 3.4 percent in 2014 and 5.3
percent in 2015, the CBO said.  “A great deal of the pain of this economic downturn still
lies ahead of us,” Elmendorf told reporters today at a news
conference in  Washington .  Bush Tax Cuts  Elmendorf said cuts in federal spending and the scheduled
expiration of President George W. Bush’s tax cuts will slow the
economy. The challenge to Congress will be to reduce the deficit
in the long term while not hurting the economic recovery now, he
said. For example, extending the Bush tax cuts would add
trillions of dollars to the deficit, the director said.  “Reductions in  government spending  or increases in taxes
will slow economic growth and reduce employment relative to what
would otherwise occur,” Elmendorf said. “It’s possible to
structure deficit reduction in a way that does not have as large
a dampening effect on output and unemployment in the near term
while still achieving  deficit reduction .”  This year’s deficit would be the third straight year of
trillion-dollar shortfalls.  Debt-Limit Increase  Earlier this month, the U.S. avoided default when Congress
voted to raise the debt ceiling. Congressional Republicans
refused to increase the borrowing authority unless it was
accompanied by cuts in federal spending. The measure would make
$1.2 trillion in automatic reductions unless the 12-member
bipartisan congressional committee creates a deficit-cutting
proposal that Congress accepts.  The CBO projected that the measure will reduce projected
deficits by $2.1 trillion between 2012 and 2021.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat and a
member of the committee, said the report “underscores the
need” for the panel to do its work.  “I look forward to working with my colleagues to develop a
plan focused on boosting economic growth now and cutting the
long-term deficit in a balanced way that addresses both the
expenditure and revenue side of the budget equation,”  Van
Hollen  said in a statement.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said in a
statement, “A slight decrease in the projected deficit is
nothing to celebrate, particularly when it is accompanied by the
grim news that CBO expects the national unemployment rate to
continue to exceed 8 percent well past next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at  
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 