-- 
U.S. Is Still Probing News Corp. 9/11 Hacking Claim, Families’ Lawyer Says

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-25T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/u-s-still-probing-news-corp-9-11-hacking-claim-families-lawyer-says.html
The U.S. is still investigating
whether the phones of Sept. 11 victims were hacked by  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA) , relatives of those killed in the terrorist
attacks were told by Attorney General Eric Holder.  Holder met yesterday in Washington with nine family members
at the Justice Department at their request.  Norman Siegel , a New
York lawyer who represents kin of terrorist attacks’ victims,
said that while Holder expressed commitment to the probe, he
wouldn’t say whether there is evidence that News Corp.’s
reporters obtained phone records.  “He said they had sufficient predicate at this point to
open an investigation and categorize it as a preliminary
investigation,” Siegel told reporters after the meeting. “We
didn’t get the specificity we would have liked but did not
realistically expect that.”  Tracy Schmaler , a  Justice Department  spokeswoman, confirmed
the substance of the meeting.  The family members sought the meeting last month after
reading a report in London’s Daily Mirror, Siegel said. The
newspaper said that News Corp. reporters unsuccessfully tried to
have a former New York police officer obtain phone records of
victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.  The 75-minute session yesterday in Washington included five
officials from the Justice Department and three from the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation , including Kevin Perkins, the FBI’s
assistant director overseeing criminal investigations, Siegel
said.  ‘Full Justice’  Holder said he found the allegations of hacking to be
disturbing and that if true there would be “full justice,”
said Jim Riches, whose 29-year-old son Jim, a  New York  City
firefighter, died in the Sept. 11 attacks.  “They’ve assigned a lot of people to the case so it shows
a good faith effort on their part,” Riches said.  News Corp. chief Murdoch told U.K. lawmakers last month
that he has “seen no evidence of these allegations.”  Suzanne Halpin, a spokeswoman for the New York-based
company, said News Corp. stands by Murdoch’s earlier statement.
She declined to comment further.  The FBI and  Manhattan  federal prosecutors have also looked
into allegations that a News Corp. unit, News America Marketing,
hacked the website of Princeton, New Jersey-based Floorgraphics
Inc., according to William Isaacson, a lawyer for Floorgraphics
who was questioned in an initial interview with prosecutors last
month.  New York Post  News Corp.’s New York Post told employees to retain files
related to any attempts at unauthorized access to third-party
data, or illegal payments to government officials made to obtain
information, according to a memorandum reproduced on The Poynter
Institute’s Romenesko website.  News Corp. is facing three police investigations in the
U.K. as well as a Parliamentary probe regarding phone hacking by
reporters at the former  London  tabloid News of the World. The
company shut the News of the World and scrapped its bid for the
rest of British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc after a report that
its journalists deleted voice mails from a murdered schoolgirl’s
phone.  Fourteen people have been arrested, including Rebekah Brooks, a former chief executive officer of News Corp.’s News
International unit, and ex-News of the World editor  Andy Coulson , who was Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s press chief
until January.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Holder told the families yesterday that the hacking claims
were being investigated by the Justice Department and FBI agents
in New York and  Washington , as well as the U.S. Attorney’s
Office in Manhattan.  Newspaper Articles  Siegel said he told his clients to look through newspaper
articles and television broadcasts for any private details about
family members that could only have been obtained through
hacking.  Siegel said that for the probe to be complete,
investigators would need cooperation from family members, who
could furnish cell-phone numbers their relatives used.
Investigators have yet to ask for the numbers, Siegel said. The
victims’ relatives urged Holder to expand the investigation to
include whether computers were hacked for private information.  Investigators told the family members that another way for
the government to look for evidence of hacking would be to go
directly to News Corp. for the information and “get documents
from that universe,” Siegel said.  “We are not here today accusing News Corp. of any
wrongdoing,” Siegel said. “Because of what was apparent and
widespread in the U.K., it’s logical to ask, ‘Did it happen in
the USA.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  