-- 
U.S. Treasuries Favored Over German Bunds Before Jackson Hole by Carmignac

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-08-24T11:27:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/u-s-treasuries-favored-over-german-bunds-before-jackson-hole-by-carmignac.html
Carmignac Gestion has switched to
Treasuries from German debt on a bet that 10-year U.S. yields
have further to fall because the  Federal Reserve  will support
the world’s largest economy as it faces the risk of recession.  Treasury yields “will stay low and have a chance to go
lower from current levels,” said Rose Ouahba, who helps oversee
the equivalent of $72 billion as head of the Paris-based fund’s
fixed-income team. “The U.S. will have very low growth and we
are facing the risk of recession, even though it’s not our
central forecast.  Monetary policy  will stay accommodative.”  Treasuries have handed investors a 3.1 percent return this
month, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show, as investors
seek the relative safety of government debt on signs the  U.S.
economy  is faltering and after the Fed pledged on Aug. 9 to keep
borrowing costs near zero until at least mid-2013.  They’ve been boosted by speculation Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  will signal more steps to spur the economy through debt
purchases when he speaks Aug. 26 in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .
Bernanke used the Kansas City Fed’s annual conference for global
central bankers last year to hint at a second round of so-called
quantitative easing, in which the Fed purchased $600 billion of
Treasuries from November 2010 to June.  Bonds Allocation  Ten-year Treasury yields were 2.14 percent at 12:25 p.m. in
 London . They fell to a record 1.9735 percent on Aug. 18.  Carmignac increased its holdings of Treasuries at the
expense of bunds at the end of July, when the 10-year yield was
around 2.80 percent, Ouahba said. The fund bet that U.S. policy
makers would agree to raise the nation’s debt ceiling and that
this would narrow the yield difference, or spread, between U.S.
and German 10-year securities.  The 10-year Treasury note yield spread over similar-
maturity German bunds has narrowed to four basis points today,
from 26 basis points on July 29.  “We believed that the U.S. would find an agreement by Aug.
2, so it made sense to shift from German exposure to U.S.
exposure,” Ouahba said.  The 25 billion-euro Carmignac Patrimoine fund had 11
percent of its bond allocation in Treasuries by the middle of
August, up from 4.5 percent in mid-July, it said by e-mail. Of
Carmignac’s $72 billion of assets under management, 46 percent
was in fixed-income securities as of June 30, according to the
company’s website.  Slowing Growth  U.S. growth in the second quarter slowed to a pace that has
typically been followed by a contraction within a year,
according to data since World War II used in an April study by
Jeremy Nalewaik, a Fed board staff economist. Gross domestic
product, adjusted for inflation, cooled to a 1.6 percent rate in
the second quarter from a year earlier.  Growth is “considerably slower” than anticipated, the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement on Aug. 9. The
Philadelphia Fed’s general economic index dropped to minus 30.7
this month, the lowest since March 2009, when the economy was in
recession.  Carmignac isn’t fazed by Standard & Poor’s Aug. 5 decision
to cut the U.S. credit rating to AA+ from AAA, Ouahba said.  “The action of S&P was more a political message,” she
said. “We don’t think this is going to be an issue, especially
because the Fed has the option to print money in case of a
supply shock in the U.S. market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at   k.campbell@bloomberg.net . 