-- 
Hu Says China Must Cut Reliance on Land for Growth, Xinhua Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-24T06:43:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/hu-says-china-must-cut-reliance-on-land-for-growth-xinhua-says.html
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  called
on the nation to reduce its dependence on land resources to fuel
growth in the world’s second-biggest economy.  At a meeting of the nation’s top political leadership, Hu
also called for the implementation of a land conservation
strategy, more frugal use of plots for construction and for
developers to stop using arable land for projects, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported late yesterday.  Land has become a source of social unrest in China as
surging property prices have helped make the sale of plots for
construction an important source of revenue for local
governments who sometimes forcefully evict residents to pave the
way for development. The sale of arable land for apartment
blocks and factories has also spurred concerns about  China ’s
ability to grow enough food for its population.  “It’s an economically complicated and politically
sensitive topic,” said Lu Feng, deputy dean of the National
School of Development of the Peking University. “It will take
time for the government to change its policy.”  Urban land in China is owned by the government, which sells
the right to use the plots. Farm land that’s collectively owned
by farmers cannot be used directly for property development. It
needs to be transferred to the state before it can be sold.  Some local authorities rely too heavily on land income to
pay back their loans, the Ministry of Finance said in a report
on the management of local government debt posted on its website
on Aug. 15.  Forced Evictions  A key issue yet to be resolved is allowing farmers to sell
their land-use rights directly rather than transferring them to
local governments at low prices,  Peking University ’s Lu said.  China in January  passed rules  barring local governments
from forcing people out of residential property through measures
such as turning off energy and water supplies. Homeowners must
also be compensated at market rates through cash or other
property.  “Land has always been a very important issue in China as
it is linked to urbanization and income allocation and has also
caused social conflicts,” said Lu.  President Hu also called for the reclamation of rural land
to grow crops to be accelerated, Xinhua said. China has set a
“red line” to guarantee the amount of arable land doesn’t
shrink to less than 1.8 billion mu (120 million hectares) to
ensure grain security, according to the report.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  