-- 
UAW Chief Seeks to Avoid Arbitration Over Ford Grievance

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-08-25T20:06:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/uaw-chief-seeks-to-avoid-arbitration-over-equality-grievance-with-ford.html
United Auto Workers  President  Bob King  said he would prefer to avoid arbitration on a union
complaint that  Ford Motor Co. (F)  salaried employees didn’t
sacrifice as much as hourly workers to help the company survive.  A hearing before an arbitrator is set for Sept. 15, a day
after Ford’s contract covering 41,000 U.S. workers expires. More
than 35,000 Ford union members, who gave up pay increases and
bonuses, signed the grievance last year after the company
reinstated raises, tuition aid and 401(k) matches for white-
collar employees.  “You always try to work out a settlement if you can
without going to arbitration,” King said in an interview
yesterday at the union’s headquarters in Detroit. “If we can’t
work something out, then arbitration is a last option.”  The union’s contracts covering 113,000 workers at  General
Motors Co. (GM) , Ford and Chrysler Group LLC expire Sept. 14. King
has said the UAW will not make concessions, while still keeping
labor costs competitive. King has said workers must be rewarded
for the $7,000 to $30,000 in givebacks they each accepted since
2005 to help the U.S. automakers survive.  Ford union locals will conduct strike-authorization votes
for the automaker’s 41,000 hourly workers through Sept. 2, the
UAW has said. Ford is the only automaker the union can strike
because it agreed to a ban on walkouts in the contract
negotiations with GM and Chrysler as part of their U.S.-led
bailouts and bankruptcies in 2009. Ford didn’t take a bailout or
reorganize in Chapter 11.  ‘Not Thinking Strike’  “We’re not thinking strike at all; it’s not our focus,
it’s not our goal,” King said. “Some of the problems are
complicated, but we’ll find solutions.”  Ford fell 17 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $10.28 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 39 percent this year after rising 68 percent in 2010.  King said he is working well with Ford Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally , GM CEO Dan Akerson and  Sergio Marchionne ,
who runs Chrysler and its majority-owner  Fiat SpA. (F)   “They’re three really good CEOs,” King said. “We have
good relationships with all three of the companies.”  Ford rewarded Mulally in March with $56.6 million in stock
for leading the company’s turnaround. In addition, his 2010
compensation rose 48 percent to $26.5 million. King has called
Mulally’s stock award “morally wrong” and “outrageous,” and
he has said it could be an impediment to getting a contract
ratified at Ford.  “Mulally’s exorbitant and excessive pay has people upset
and feeling they are owed something by the company,” Gary Walkowicz , a bargaining committeeman with UAW Local 600 in
Dearborn,  Michigan , said in a Aug. 23 interview. “It really has
become a big issue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David J. Lynch in  Detroit  at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  