-- 
UBS, Deutsche Bank, Muni Fees, Insider Trading: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-24T11:55:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/ubs-deutsche-bank-mizuho-muni-fees-epa-insider-trading-compliance.html
UBS AG (UBS) , Switzerland’s largest bank,
agreed to pay $1 million to settle allegations by the state of
New Hampshire that it misled investors when selling structured
products backed by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  UBS will pay $700,000 in restitution as well as $300,000 in
fines and costs, the New Hampshire Bureau of Securities
Regulation  said  yesterday on its website. The agency had alleged
in 2009 that the Zurich-based bank’s brokers misled clients who
bought “100% Principal-Protection Notes,” which became almost
worthless when Lehman filed for bankruptcy in September 2008.  UBS has faced regulatory investigations, arbitrations and
lawsuits over the Lehman notes, which allowed investors to earn
money when certain stocks rose without suffering losses when
they fell, as long as the issuer stayed solvent. UBS brokers
didn’t warn some clients in  New Hampshire  as Lehman’s financial
situation worsened, according to Jeff Spill, deputy director of
the Bureau of Securities Regulation.  “When the company realized that the creditworthiness of
Lehman was deteriorating and the Lehman risks were greater, that
information should have been communicated from the top down and
it wasn’t,” Spill said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Karina Byrne , a UBS spokesman, said in an e-mail that the
company decided to settle the case to avoid litigation and that
the “vast majority” of the firm’s sales of the investments
were “conducted properly.”  Compliance Action  New York Removed From Group Working on Foreclosure Deal  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  was removed
from a state group working on a nationwide foreclosure
settlement with U.S. banks because his office “actively worked
to undermine” its efforts, the Iowa official leading the talks
for the states said.  Schneiderman, who doesn’t want a settlement to block state
investigations, was removed from the executive committee of
state officials working on the deal, Iowa Attorney General Tom
Miller said yesterday in a statement.  “ New York  has actively worked to undermine the very same
multistate group that it had spent the previous nine months
working very closely with,” Miller said. For a member of the
executive committee, that “simply doesn’t make sense, is
unprecedented and is unacceptable,” Miller said.  Attorneys general from all 50 states last year announced
their investigation into bank foreclosure practices after
reports that faulty documents were being used to seize homes.
Since then, a group of attorneys general and officials from
federal agencies, including the Justice Department, have been
negotiating a settlement with the five largest mortgage
servicers in the U.S.  Government officials are seeking an agreement that provides
funding for writedowns on mortgage loans for borrowers and sets
standards for how the banks service loans, interact with
borrowers and conduct foreclosures, according to terms proposed
in March.  An executive committee of 13 attorneys general, not
including Schneiderman, and two state banking regulators is
leading negotiations on behalf of all 50 states, said Geoff
Greenwood, Miller’s spokesman. The executive committee has a
smaller committee that negotiates directly with the banks, he
said.  Several attorneys general, including Schneiderman, have
criticized any possible settlement that would protect banks from
state investigations by providing the lenders with broad
releases from liability. Those probes include the bundling of
mortgage loans into securities.  The attorneys general who want to continue their own probes
after an agreement include  Martha Coakley  in Massachusetts,
Delaware’s  Beau Biden  and Catherine Cortez Masto in Nevada.
Delaware is also a member of the executive committee.  The companies involved in the talks are  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and Ally Financial Inc.  “Ongoing investigations by attorneys general cannot be
shut down by efforts to settle quickly and those responsible
must be held accountable,” Schneiderman’s spokesman Danny
Kanner said in an e-mailed statement. “While it is Attorney
General Miller’s prerogative to remove us from the executive
committee, we will continue to be an active voice on these
issues as a part of the 50-state coalition and in other
forums.”  Deutsche Bank May Have to Repay Tax Refund Over Carbon Fraud  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest lender, may have to
cover part of the 250 million euros ($362 million) in taxes that
prosecutors said was lost to the country in a carbon-emissions
certificate trading fraud scheme.  Prosecutors in Frankfurt are trying six managers of trading
companies in what they call an international scheme to evade
value added tax when trading the certificates.  Because Deutsche Bank bought the certificates, the
government may attempt to recover the lost taxes by reclaiming
VAT refunds it granted the lender, said Martin Wulf, a tax
attorney at law firm Streck Mack Schwedhelm in Berlin.
Prosecutors are probing 170 suspects, including seven Deutsche
Bank employees.  “If the tax authorities can get a company like Deutsche
Bank to pick up the tab, they shout ‘hurray,’” said Wulf, who
isn’t involved in the case. “They couldn’t care less about the
little perpetrators who started the whole thing but mostly
either have no money left or brought it out of reach.”  Deutsche Bank expects that its employees will be cleared,
said Christian Streckert, a spokesman for the Frankfurt-based
lender. The bank hired Clifford Chance LLP to review the issue
and the law firm hasn’t yet found any indications of misconduct
by the bank or its employees, he said. The bank still expects
that it can keep VAT deductions made after buying certificates,
he said.  Courts have allowed authorities to seek the return of tax
deductions from the last company that bought goods in a trading
chain, provided it knew or should have known that at some point
tax fraud happened, said Wulf.  Martin Bach, the presiding judge at the Frankfurt trial,
has offered defendants leniency if they confess and said that
sentences may be further reduced if Deutsche Bank has to make up
for the damage.  Joachim Aue, a spokesman for tax authorities in Frankfurt,
where Deutsche Bank is based, declined to comment, citing tax
secrecy rules.  For more, click here.  Ex-Mizuho Banker Faces November Trial in Insider-Trading Case  Thomas Ammann, a former Mizuho International Plc banker
charged with insider trading, faces a November trial along with
two associates, a court in  London  ruled yesterday.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority charged Ammann,
38,with three counts of insider dealing in connection with sales
of  OCE NV (OCE)  shares in 2009 before  Japan ’s Canon Inc. bought the
company.  Canon, known for cameras and photocopiers, agreed to buy
OCE in a 730 million-euro ($1.1 billion) deal in November 2009.
The charges relate to trades made as long as nine months before
the sale, the FSA said earlier this month.  Also charged were Jessica Mang, a 28-year-old London
chiropractor, and Christina Weckwerth, a 42-year-old student in
Germany.  Ammann encouraged Mang and Weckwerth to trade using non-
public information, according to the charges filed by the FSA.
They used accounts at Morgan Stanley and Halifax Share Dealing
Ltd. to make the trades.  Ammann’s lawyer, Shaul Brazil, declined to comment. Mang’s
lawyer, Romana Khan, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call
seeking comment. A lawyer representing Weckwerth at  Addleshaw
Goddard LLP  couldn’t be immediately reached to comment.  Courts  Primary Global CEO ‘Co-Conspirator’ in Scheme, U.S. Alleges  Unni Narayanan, the chief executive officer of Primary
Global Research LLC, an expert networking firm, was a “co-
conspirator” in an insider-trading scheme, prosecutors claimed
in court papers.  The government’s allegation was made public yesterday in a
filing by a defense attorney for James Fleishman, a former
Primary Global sales manager facing an Aug. 29 insider-trading
trial in Manhattan federal court. The defense lawyer, Ethan
Balogh, attached a July 15 letter from prosecutors that listed
the “identity of co-conspirators” as Narayanan, Chief
Operating Officer Phani Saripella and other Primary Global
employees.  The government identified the individuals in response to a
defense request for the names of people allegedly involved in
the insider scheme.  Primary Global, based in Mountain View,  California , is at
the center of a nationwide probe of insider trading at hedge
funds, technology companies, banks and consulting firms.  The firm connects investors with employees of public
companies who purportedly provide them with insight into
specific markets.  Winifred Jiau, a consultant for Primary Global, was
convicted of leaking insider information in June.  Neither Narayanan nor Saripella has been criminally charged
with wrongdoing.  Dan Charnas, a spokesman for Primary Global, declined to
comment. Reached at his home in California, Narayanan also
declined to comment, as did  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in New York.  The case is U.S. v. Fleishman, 11-cr-32, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Compliance Policy  U.S. Municipal Advisers Face Fee Limits in Dodd-Frank Rules  Financial advisers to U.S. state and local governments
would be banned from splitting fees with banks or receiving
“excessive compensation” under rules proposed by the regulator
of the $2.9 trillion municipal bond industry.  The  rules advanced  yesterday by the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board for the first time spell out the codes of
conduct that will apply to financial advisers under the Dodd-
Frank law passed by Congress a year ago. The act gave the board
sway over advisers, which previously operated without oversight.  Financial advisers have come under scrutiny since the 2008
credit crisis, when complex, derivative-laden bond deals they
encouraged public officials to enter hit taxpayers with
unexpected costs. A series of Justice Department criminal cases
have also shed light on how advisers received kickbacks in
return for letting banks overcharge clients on investment deals.  “We are proposing that municipal advisers be required to
put the interests of state and local governments first,”
Lynnette Hotchkiss, the executive director of the board, said in
a statement yesterday.  More than 1,000 firms provide financial advice to public
officials, from little-known regional outfits to Wall Street
banks such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
according to registrations made with the Securities and Exchange
Commission since last year. Others include First Southwest Co.,
Public Financial Management Inc. and Piper Jaffray Cos.  Until passage of Dodd-Frank, firms that operated only as
financial advisers were largely exempt from federal regulations.
The MSRB is working to fill that gap with new strictures on
firms aimed at protecting government officials.  The rules proposed yesterday would require advisers to act
in the best interests of their clients. Among them are bans on
splitting fees with investment banks who also work with their
clients as well as on reaping “excessive compensation.”  The new regulations would also force advisers to disclose
conflicts of interest.  In some cases, advisers were hired on the recommendations
of investment banks whose deals they were brought in to
evaluate, which may have given them an incentive to sign off on
the transaction. The proposed regulations also address that by
requiring advisers to investigate whether their clients would be
better served by different types of financings, unless those
clients explicitly tell them not to do so.  The board’s proposed rules are subject to approval by the
SEC. Last week, the board also proposed regulations that would
prevent financial advisers from using campaign donations to land
work, as bond underwriters are currently enjoined from doing.  EPA Says Electronic Submissions Will Cut Burden on Companies  The Environmental Protection Agency said it will let
companies file reports electronically and provide more pollution
information as part of the Obama administration’s bid to ease
regulatory burdens.  Increasing public disclosure of pollution information will
“level the playing field by helping facilities, governments and
the public know what is being accomplished,” the EPA said in a
report published yesterday by the White House.  The EPA also pledged to improve estimates for the cost of
proposed rules, as a way to determine if the work is biased. The
proposed changes and actions already completed will save as much
as $1.5 billion in the next five years, the agency said in its
report.  A lobbying group for the oil and gas industry contrasted
the steps EPA is taking with a proposal to tighten ozone
standards, which the agency estimates may cost industry as much
as $90 billion.  The ozone rule “makes a mockery of the administration’s
program to eliminate or modify rules that are unnecessarily
costly or burdensome,” Howard Feldman, director of regulatory
and scientific policy at the American Petroleum Institute in
 Washington , said on a conference call yesterday with reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 