-- 
Tullow to Invest $4 Billion in Ghana to Raise Oil Production

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-08-24T16:06:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/tullow-to-invest-4-billion-in-ghana-to-increase-oil-production.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , a U.K. explorer with
the most licenses in  Africa , may invest at least $4 billion with
its partners to develop  oil fields  off  Ghana ’s Atlantic coast.  Tullow, along with  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and Kosmos
Energy Ltd., will begin engineering and design work for the
 Enyenra and Tweneboa  fields in the Deep Water Tano block in
September, Chief Operating Officer Paul McDade said.  The partners, also including Ghana National Petroleum
Corp., will study a plan to produce 75,000 to 125,000 barrels a
day from the fields, with first oil pumped in early 2015.  Tullow’s Jubilee field, the largest in Ghana, is expected
to pump 105,000 barrels a day in October, up from about 85,000
barrels a day currently, the company said in a statement today.  Enyenra and Tweneboa “are of similar scale to Jubilee, a
little bit more complex,” McDade said in a phone interview.
“We are kind of thinking of $4 billion plus. That’s our
territory but it’s quite uncertain at the moment.”  Explorers, including  Eni SpA (ENI)  of  Italy  and  Russia ’s OAO
Lukoil, are searching for oil and gas in Ghanaian waters. The
country has become one of the world’s top 50 oil producers since
crude production began at Jubilee last year.  Tullow, based in  London , will also proceed with development
of Ghana’s  Teak, Mahogany East  and Akasa discoveries in the West
Cape Three Points Block after giving up a so-called acreage
exploration license in the area, Exploration Director Angus McCoss said in an interview. Its projects in Ghana,  Uganda ,
 Namibia  and Mauritania are able to produce more than 200,000
barrels of oil day, according to a  presentation  on its website.  West Cape  “We’ve reached the end of the exploration license,”
McCoss said. “We’ve drilled the big prospects. We do retain
certain rights over the license, which we are pursuing.”
Anadarko, the partner in the West Cape Three Points Block, said
yesterday the Akasa-1 well found a high-quality oil reservoir.  Tullow’s first-half net income more than tripled to $311.3
million as revenue reached $1.1 billion, it said today in the
statement. It doubled an interim dividend to 4 pence a share.  “Overall these should be taken as a solid set of results
by investors, with a small beat to consensus earnings,”  Oswald Clint , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said in an e-
mailed report. Also, there’s the “doubling of the dividend
signaling management’s confidence in continued  cash flow .”  Tullow reduced its full-year production estimate to a range
of 82,000 to 84,000 barrels a day after delays at Jubilee.  The company is in talks with  Ghana National Gas Co . over
selling gas from the field within the country, “but we probably
are still about 18 months plus away from having gas
infrastructure in place,” McDade said.  Delayed Results  Tullow advanced 8.4 percent to 1,026 pence by the 4:30 p.m.
close of London trading, the biggest gain since Oct. 6, 2009.  The explorer delayed announcing drilling results from “the
high-impact” Zaedyus well in  French Guiana  until September from
August. The results from the Montserrado exploration well off
Liberia are also scheduled for September, the company said.  Tullow expects to complete the sale of its interests in
three Ugandan exploration blocks to  Total SA (FP)  and China National
Offshore Oil Corp. for $2.9 billion in September, it said today.
The company agreed to set up the joint venture with Cnooc and
Total in March to develop the Lake Albert Basin oil fields.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  