-- 
Muni Bond Market Emerging as States’ Debt Grows: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-08-24T21:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/muni-bond-market-emerging-as-states-struggle-to-repay-loans-mexico-credit.html
Mexico ’s efforts to bail out cash-
strapped states may jumpstart the municipal  bond market  in  Latin
America ’s second-largest economy.  State-owned  development bank  Banobras plans to help
struggling states issue bonds to refinance debt, pledging to
back as much as 50 percent of the securities. Banobras Chief
Executive Officer Georgina Kessel said in an Aug. 22 interview
that a “few” of the country’s 31 states will need assistance
as loans mature. States’ debt levels have swelled 56 percent
since 2008, driven higher in part by infrastructure spending,
according to  data  compiled by the Finance Ministry.  Mexico’s municipal bond market is almost non-existent
today, compared with the $2.9 trillion market in the U.S., as
most states take out bank loans to finance deficits. In  Brazil ,
states have been barred from issuing bonds since the federal
government restructured their debt in 1999. Initial offerings
under the Banobras plan may yield about 100 basis points more
than government debt, according to Alonso Madero, who helps
manage about $5.5 billion at Corp. Actinver SAB.  “We’re creating favorable conditions so there’s appetite
for this type of paper,” Kessel, a former energy minister, said
in an interview at Banobras headquarters in Mexico City. She
said states want to sell bonds with maturities of up to 25 years
while declining to comment on how much debt could be issued.  Banobras peso-denominated bonds due in 2015 yield 4.99
percent, which is nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point,
more than similar-maturity federal government debt, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Moody’s Investors Service rates
Banobras local debt Baa1, the third-lowest investment-grade
ranking and in line with the federal government.  Initial Sales  Mexican states’ debt climbed to 317 billion pesos ($26
billion) in June, equal to 2.3 percent of gross domestic
product, from 203 billion pesos at the end of 2008. The national
government, by comparison, had a total  debt  of 3.8 trillion
pesos in June, equal to 27 percent of GDP. The states’
obligations, while growing, remain too low for investors to
worry that the Banobras plan will swell the federal government’s
debt, said Gabriel Casillas, chief Mexico economist for JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  “There isn’t a lot of concern about the impact on federal
finances,” Casillas said in a phone interview from Mexico City.  The first bonds may be sold under the Banobras program in a
“matter of weeks,” Carlos Garza, head of state relations at
Mexico’s  Finance Ministry , said in an Aug. 22 interview. The
sales will be open to local investors and foreigners, helping
develop the country’s municipal bond market, he said.  Coahuila Debt  Banobras unveiled the bond guarantee plan on Aug. 18, a day
after a lawmaker from Coahuila said that the state had 33.9
billion pesos of debt, four times more than the figure reported
in May.  Standard & Poor’s cut Coahuila’s national scale debt rating
five levels to BBB- from A+ on Aug. 18. S&P lowered Veracruz to
BBB- from BBB+ in November 2010. S&P has since stopped rating
Veracruz.  State governments took out bank loans to boost spending on
infrastructure projects and to finance growing deficits in the
run-up to elections, said Eduardo Uribe, an S&P analyst in
Mexico City.  “In some cases it had to do with an infrastructure
deficit, but in others they took advantage of that deficit to
start big projects with political implications,” Uribe said in
a telephone interview. “They don’t have sufficient liquidity to
pay for their short-term debt.”  Nuevo Leon , Michoacan  Coahuila and Veracruz are among states facing the “most
acute” debt problems, along with Quintana Roo, Nuevo Leon,
Nayarit and Michoacan, the Finance Ministry’s Garza said. Mexico
chose to help the states arrange financing because a direct
bailout would have sent “the wrong message,” he said.  States have few means to generate revenue, leading many to
take on debt to supplement the funds they receive from the
federal government, Veracruz Governor Javier Duarte told
reporters in Mexico City on Aug. 18. Veracruz plans to issue
bonds under the Banobras program, he said.  “The states have too few sources of income and that makes
us highly dependent” on the national government, Duarte said.
“Debt has become the only way to attend to the needs of your
population.”  Default Swaps  Coahuila is “interested” in the Banobras program and has
met with bank officials to learn more, according to a joint e-
mailed response to questions from state Treasurer Jesus Ochoa
Galindo and Ismael Ramos Flores, head of the local tax agency.  Press officers Sandra Edith Martinez of Nayarit and Miriam
Pinto of  Quintana Roo  didn’t respond to phone calls seeking
comment. Mireya Guzman, state finance secretary of Michoacan,
didn’t respond to a phone call and e-mail message nor did Nuevo
Leon’s secretary general, Javier Trevino.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 11 basis points
to 200 at 5:26 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index.  The peso fell 1.4 percent to 12.4811 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts for December
delivery, known as TIIE, rose eight basis points to 4.81
percent.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose three basis points to 161, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Record-Low Yields  The debt crises in  Europe  and the U.S. as well as concern
about a slowdown in the global economy may crimp investor demand
for securities issued by struggling Mexican states, said Miguel Angel Aguayo, a fixed-income analyst at Grupo Financiero
Banorte-Ixe.  “I’m skeptical, above all because of the current economic
environment, that the public is ready to take that type of
risk,” Aguayo said in a telephone interview from Mexico City.  Still, Alejandro Urbina, who oversees $800 million of
assets at Silva Capital Management in  Chicago , said he’d be
interested in buying the notes because of the yield premium
they’d offer over federal government debt. Yields on Mexican
benchmark peso bonds due 2024 touched a record low 6.04 percent
on Aug. 18.  “I would buy this,” Urbina said in a telephone interview.
“This would work well for me as an investor, giving me a pickup
on the sovereign.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  