-- 
Hurricane Irene Hits Bahamas with 115 mph Winds

-- B y   C o n o r   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-25T12:24:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/hurricane-irene-pounding-bahamas-on-path-near-north-carolina-east-coast.html
Hurricane Irene, the strongest
Atlantic storm to threaten the U.S. since 2005, battered the
Bahamas on a course that’s expected to take it near  North
Carolina  this weekend and  New England  next week.  Hurricane watches are in force for the North Carolina coast
as 115 miles-per-hour (185 kilometers per hour) winds ripped
through the Bahamas, damaging homes, felling trees and
triggering flooding, according to the Bahamas Emergency
Management Agency. The storm is 670 miles south of Cape
Hatteras, North Carolina, the National Hurricane Center in Miami
said at 8 a.m., and is moving northwest at 13 mph on a path that
will take it along the U.S. Northeast coast this weekend.  “I would expect that by Saturday morning it’s going to be
along the borders of North and South Carolina,” said  Jim Dale ,
a Risk Meterologist with High Wycombe, England-based British
Weather Services. “Eventually it will come inland north of  New
York ,” he said.  Irene is expected to strengthen later today, the hurricane
center said, and could become a Category Four hurricane on the
five-step Saffir-Simpson hurricane wind scale, bearing winds of
at least 131 mph.  The center issued a  hurricane watch  for the North Carolina
coast from Surf City north to the Virginia border, meaning
hurricane-force winds are possible in the next 48 hours. The
path could shift 100 miles or more and may change several times,
according to Jack Beven, a senior hurricane specialist at the
center in Miami.  Residents Evacuating  Residents and visitors on North Carolina’s Ocracoke Island
have started evacuating, Jeff Hibbard, deputy director of
 emergency services  for Hyde County said yesterday.  In New York, the most populous U.S. city with 8.2 million
residents, officials were opening the emergency operations
center in  Brooklyn , said Chris Gilbride, spokesman for the
Office of Emergency Management yesterday.  Based on information received from the  National Weather
Service , city officials assume a “strong possibility” the
storm “could impact  New York City  or  Long Island  directly.”  The U.S. Navy moved 64 ships away from Norfolk, Virginia to
keep them from being damaged by the storm,  Associated Press 
reported.  The hurricane center’s latest projection for the storm path
shows it curving northwards and brushing the North Carolina
coast on the weekend, either late Aug. 27 or early Aug. 28,
before continuing north toward New England. Forecast models show
a wide variability in the possible track.  Damage ‘Inevitable’  Residents along the coast north of the Carolinas will
“experience a raging hurricane,” Dale said. “They will see
70-100 miles-per-hour winds and also copious amounts of rain.
Flooding and storm damage from wind is inevitable.”  The NHC warned the Bahamas would experience storm surges of
as much as 11 feet above  sea level  and that up to 12 inches of
rain may fall. “The core of the hurricane will continue to move
over the northwestern Bahamas today, and pass well offshore of
the east coast of central and north Florida tonight and early
Friday,” the NHC said.  “Nassau is experiencing some tropical storm and hurricane
winds,” Gayle Outten-Moncur, operations officer at the Bahamas
National Emergency Management Agency, said in a phone interview
from Nassau, the country’s capital, today.  Monitoring Impact  “We’re continuing to monitor the impact,” Outten-Moncur
said. No injuries have been reported.  The last hurricane to strike the U.S. was  Ike  in 2008, a
Category 2 storm when it went ashore near Galveston,  Texas . The
most recent major hurricane, one with winds of at least 111 mph,
was Wilma in 2005. The last hurricane to strike  Massachusetts 
was Hurricane Bob in 1991.  Irene’s hurricane-strength winds of at least 74 mph extend
70 miles from its core, and tropical-storm-strength winds reach
out 255 miles.  Total losses from Irene may reach $3.1 billion across the
Caribbean and along the U.S. coastline, according to estimates
from Kinetic Analysis Corp.  Further out in the Atlantic, Tropical Depression 10, which
formed in the eastern Atlantic, is likely to be upgraded to a
tropical storm later today, the National Hurricane Center said.
The next tropical storm will be named Jose.  The depression has maximum sustained winds of 35 miles per
hour, close to the threshold of 39 mph for a named tropical
storm. The center of the system is about 435 miles west-
southwest of the southernmost Cape Verde Islands and was moving
west-northwest across open waters at 13 mph at 5 a.m. U.S.
Eastern time, the Miami-based center said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Conor Sullivan in  London  at 
 csullivan39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 