-- 
Irene Aims at U.S. States Suffering Budget Cuts for Emergencies

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h ,   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-08-24T14:56:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/hurricane-irene-to-test-ability-of-u-s-states-to-react-after-budget-cuts.html
Hurricane Irene, which became a
Category 3 storm today, is threatening East Coast states from
North Carolina to  New England  where budget cuts have diminished
funding for responding to emergencies.  Around the U.S., 24 states  reduced  financing for emergency
responses from 2009 to 2010. The trend is likely to continue,
according to the National Emergency Management Association, as
they deal with fiscal 2012 fiscal deficits estimated at $103
billion by the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , a
nonprofit research organization in Washington.  Emergency management agencies “have been impacted by state
budget cuts for the past consecutive three years,” Trina R.
Sheets, executive director of the National Emergency Management
Association, said in an e-mail today from Lexington,  Kentucky .  “Agencies have been forced to cut staff positions,
institute furloughs and hiring freezes despite the fact that
most are already understaffed,” Sheets said. She said the
association anticipates federal budget cuts in fiscal 2012 will
diminish homeland-security funding for states and
municipalities.  Still, state and federal officials can marshal resources
quickly, said Scott D. Pattison, executive director of the
 National Association of State Budget Officers .  Maryland  reduced
its latest emergency-management budget less than 1 percent,
 according  to budget documents. North Carolina, which began
evacuating visitors from Ocracoke Island following forecasts
that the hurricane may make landfall this weekend, also cut
 funding  for its emergency agency less than 1 percent in the
current fiscal year.  Aggressive Response  “Regardless of what’s in the budget for this kind of
incident, I believe, quite frankly, the General Assembly would
very aggressively come and help us do whatever we had to do to
rebuild their lives,” Governor Beverly Perdue told reporters
yesterday in Raleigh.  Perdue, a Democrat, said she won’t know how budget cuts
will affect recovery efforts until after the storm. Hurricane
Floyd caused more than $1 billion in damage in 1999, forcing the
state “to go to  Washington  to beg for money,” she said.  Total losses from Irene may reach $3.1 billion across the
Caribbean and along the U.S. coastline, according to estimates
from Kinetic Analysis Corp., a risk-modeling firm in  Silver
Spring , Maryland.  The U.S. subsidizes states’ emergency-response budgets,
particularly in times of disaster. Of  Florida ’s $765 million
Division of Emergency Management budget for 2008-09, more than
81 percent came from federal and state funds as a result of
declared disasters, according to a division  report . Parts of the
 Florida Panhandle  experienced tornadoes and rip currents when
 Hurricane Gustav  struck in September 2008.  ‘Very Lucky’  Funding for Florida’s Division of Emergency Management fell
almost 40 percent, to $278.8 million, in fiscal 2012 from the
year before, as projects to recover from earlier storms ended,
said William Booher, a spokesman. The state hasn’t been hit by a
major storm since 2005, when Hurricanes Wilma, Katrina, Rita and
Dennis struck. The budget for day-to-day operations hasn’t
fallen, even as Florida closed a $3.8 billion budget gap, he
said.  North Carolina  typically has “rainy day” budget funds to
respond to natural disasters, said Julia Jarema, a spokeswoman
for the state’s Division of Emergency Management.  “Obviously those are not as flush as they once were, but
we will handle it,” Jarema said in a telephone interview from
Raleigh. “We have the people and resources needed to respond.”  Stocked Warehouses  The state has two warehouses stocked with food, tarpaulins,
cots, sandbags, sandbagging machines and other supplies and is
checking inventories in advance of the storm, Jarema said. One
warehouse is in Tarboro in the eastern part of the state and the
other is in Badin east of  Charlotte , she said.  In  New Jersey , where Irene may hit on Sunday, State Police
officials plan to shift officers to coastal areas and activate
the emergency operations center in Ewing, spokesman Brian Polite
said. He declined to say whether budget cuts have hampered the
agency’s ability to respond to natural disasters.  Governor  Chris Christie ’s budget for the fiscal year that
began in July assumed $11.6 million in savings from attrition
within the force. A new trooper class was canceled in the
previous 12 months to contain costs.  “One thing we don’t discuss is budgetary issues and how
they affect our responses to situations,” Polite said in an
interview.  Standard Approach  Officials generally don’t consider costs as they prepare
for a hurricane or respond to a natural disaster, said Meagan
Dorsch, spokeswoman for the  National Conference of State
Legislatures .  “The standard approach for any state is to first assess
the situation following a major disaster, respond to the need,
and make any necessary budgetary changes,” she said by e-mail
from Denver. “This is what we have seen in places like Alabama
and  Missouri  following their devastating tornadoes this
spring.”  The American Red Cross is in “very good shape” to aid
victims of Irene and the 70,000 other incidents --ranging from
house fires to tornado outbreaks -- to which it responds each
year, said spokeswoman Laura Howe. The Washington-based
nonprofit organization and its chapters reported $3.6 billion in
revenue in 2009, according to its federal tax  filing , the most
recent available.  “There’s a whole mechanism that springs into action
immediately when there’s a disaster,” Pattison of the budget
officers’ association said in a telephone interview.  “They’re going to do what they have to do,” he said.
“Nobody’s going to say we can’t staff up or spend money due to
budgets. They may have to cut other places over time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  