-- 
Usiminas Port Bid Seen Quadrupling Its Ore: Freight Markets

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-08-24T14:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/usiminas-port-bid-seen-quadrupling-its-iron-ore-freight-markets.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA (USIM5) , the Brazilian steelmaker aiming to quadruple its iron-ore
production, stands to gain the most from an auction for a $1
billion port terminal to be built in  Rio de Janeiro  state.  The state government will take bids later this year for a
lease on the so-called Area do Meio, an area equal to about 30
soccer fields, from companies that want to ship the ore,
 Brazil ’s top export. Usiminas, as the company is known, has
confirmed it will participate and has the most ambitious plans
to boost ore output of any publicly traded company that doesn’t
have a dedicated iron-ore port built or under construction.  Other bidders may include Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA, the
third-biggest Brazilian steelmaker by output, and MMX Mineracao
& Metalicos SA, the  iron-ore  producer controlled by Brazilian
billionaire  Eike Batista . If Usiminas loses, it may have to rely
on the Sudeste port MMX is building, which would hurt the
outlook for the Belo Horizonte-based company, said Daniella Maia Gomes, an analyst in Rio de Janeiro at brokerage Ativa SA CTV.  “If they don’t get a lasting solution for the long term,
there could be a negative revision from us,” said Gomes, who
has a neutral rating on the company’s preferred shares, the most
commonly traded stock. “This topic is very important for
Usiminas. They have a program to increase production and they
still don’t have an export port.”  Usiminas shares have fallen 42 percent in the past year as
rising raw-material costs, a stronger real and lower prices hurt
profits, leading investors to sell Brazilian steel stocks.
 Gerdau SA (GGBR4) ,  Latin America ’s biggest steelmaker, dropped 43
percent, while the Brazilian benchmark Bovespa index lost 18
percent in the same period.  Rules for Bidding  Cia. Docas do Rio de Janeiro , Rio’s port authority, aims to
announce the bidding rules in September, Docas President Jorge
Luiz de Mello told reporters on Aug. 19. Determining a winner
will take four to six months, he said. The area of 245,400
square meters in the Port of Itaguai will be leased to a private
dry-bulk operator to move 25 million metric tons a year, with
capacity to expand to 44 million.  The lease, for 25 years with an option to renew for 25
more, will go to the highest bidder that also demonstrates the
technical and financial capacity to build and operate the port
terminal, Mello said.  Four or five companies already have expressed interest,
Mello said, adding that the auction is “anxiously awaited” and
he expects it to be “hotly disputed.”  Rising Ore Prices  Companies with mines in the southeastern state of  Minas
Gerais  likely will lead the bidding, Jonathan Brandt, an HSBC
Holdings Plc equity analyst in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. Ore prices on global markets have almost doubled in
the past two years on growing demand from  China , the biggest
consumer of the steel-making ingredient.  The price of ore with 62 percent iron content delivered to
China rose 0.1 percent to $177.9 a metric ton yesterday,
according to the Steel Index.  Brazil, the second-largest exporter after  Australia , will
boost its output to 771.5 million metric tons in 2015 from 372
million in 2010, according to estimates from the Brazilian
Mining Institute, an industry group. Last year, about 84 percent
of Brazil’s ore output was exported for a total of $29 billion,
with China buying 45 percent of the shipments, according to
figures from the institute.  Winning the lease could be a “game changer” for Usiminas
because they need the access the most, Brandt said, adding that
not having a port is “a key hurdle they have to overcome.”  Boost Production  The company, Brazil’s second-largest steel producer by
output, is spending 4.1 billion reais ($2.57 billion) to boost
ore production to 29 million metric tons by 2015, it said in a
 statement  Nov 13. That would more than quadruple the 6.84
million metric tons produced last year.  Usiminas’s mining unit, Mineracao Usiminas, controls four
mines in the Serra Azul region of Minas Gerais. Tokyo-based
Sumitomo Corp. bought 30 percent of the unit for $1.93 billion
last year. Usiminas exported 526,000 metric tons of ore in 2010,
less than 8 percent of its total production, through a terminal
in Itaguai operated by Cia. Siderurgica Nacional next to the
Area do Meio.  “I can guarantee that we are going to be part of this
auction, certainly with partners, because our level of export of
iron ore is going to be above 20 million tons,” Usiminas Chief
Executive Officer Wilson Brumer said on an Aug. 2 conference
call with analysts. He mentioned  ArcelorMittal (MT)  as a possible
partner. The Luxembourg-based steelmaker declined to comment
through an external public relations firm working for it in
Brazil.  ‘Backup Area’  Usiminas also owns a tract of land on the same peninsula as
the Area do Meio that isn’t usable as a port but could serve as
a “backup area,” Brumer said.  The company is boosting ore production at a time when
selling the raw material is more profitable than steelmaking.
Margins for the company’s steel business fell to an average of 6
percent in the first half of the year, compared with 18 percent
a year ago. Profit margins for its mining business were 66
percent in the first half of 2011, company filings show.  The company’s iron-ore project, along with a “good port
solution,” could be worth $5 billion to $6 billion, Raphael Biderman, an equity analyst at Banco Bradesco BBI SA in  Sao
Paulo , said in a note to clients yesterday. “The market cap of
Usiminas is $7.8 billion, so this signifies relevant value
creation for the stock,” he wrote.  Less Lucrative  Without enough export capacity, the company will have to
sell domestically, a limited and less-lucrative market because
some steelmakers already are mining their own ore, said Rafael Weber, an equity analyst at brokerage Geracao Futuro Corretora.  “Iron ore is worth much less if you don’t have a port
these days,” Weber said in a phone interview from  Porto Alegre .  Mello estimates a new harbor will take three to four years
to build, so Usiminas has found a temporary solution. The
company said Feb. 14 it signed a deal with Rio de Janeiro-based
MMX to export iron ore through its Sudeste port for five years,
beginning with 3 million metric tons in 2012 and reaching 12
million by 2015. Mineracao Usiminas can extend the deal for as
many as five more years and will pay $12.63 per metric ton
shipped, MMX  said .  Cut Costs  Access to a dedicated terminal would cut costs. MMX will
have operating expenses at Sudeste of about $2 per loaded iron
ore ton, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a July 26 report.  Sao Paulo-based Cia. Siderurgica Nacional may consider
bidding for the lease once the port authority releases the
rules, Davi Emery Cade, CSN’s ports director, said in an Aug. 3
analyst call. CSN has plans to expand output to 89 million
metric tons, according to the company’s website.  MMX also will evaluate whether to bid once it has seen the
rules, Chief Executive Officer Roger Downey said in an Aug. 10
interview. “We will look at the terms, but naturally we’re
interested,” he said.  Another possible bidder is privately held Ferrous Resources
Ltd., said an official at the  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based
company, who declined to be named, citing corporate policy.  Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, won’t take part in the auction because it is focusing
on expanding existing ports, Eduardo Bartolomeo, the company’s
head of integrated bulk operations, said in an e-mailed
statement on Aug. 18.  The bidding for the Area do Meio “will be a fight, and
that’s positive because it will spur efficiency and more-
appropriate prices,”  Adriano Pires , head of the Rio-based
research group Brazilian Center for Infrastructure, said in a
phone interview. “Apart from unblocking the system and allowing
more exports, it will boost competition among the miners.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio De Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  