-- 
Virginia Quake Leaves Cracked, Twisted Epicenter With a Damaged City Hall

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-08-24T02:52:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/virginia-quake-leaves-cracked-twisted-epicenter-with-a-damaged-city-hall.html
At the  Veterans of Foreign Wars post 
on Mineral Avenue, a brick chimney cracked and twisted on its
rooftop perch. Across the street at Ferrell’s Termite & Pest
Control, a plate-glass window shattered, leaving shards on the
sidewalk and two exposed images of Jesus.  The 5.8-magnitude  earthquake  that damaged the spires of
 Washington ’s National Cathedral and was felt as far north as
Toronto left mostly jarred residents and a few fissures in the
architecture of Mineral,  Virginia , the town nearest the
 epicenter . The community, which has one traffic light, is about
90 miles (144 kilometers) southwest of Washington.  “It sounded like an aircraft crashing into our house,”
said Cathie Stewart, 21, a college student who was at home with
her father when the quake struck at 1:51 p.m.  “It was rumbling so bad, it was like treading water,”
said Tamara Grindheim, 53, who described bookcases falling over
in her home and food rattling in the refrigerator.  Earthquakes of such magnitude are rare on the East Coast,
according to Jack Boatwright, a seismologist with the  U.S.
Geological Survey  in  Menlo Park ,  California . The last one of
similar size occurred in Saguenay,  Quebec , in 1988, he said.  Because the geological survey doesn’t have an extensive
network of sensors in rural Virginia, scientists won’t know the
exact location of the epicenter or the fault line involved for
weeks, Boatwright said in a telephone interview.  More Monitors  The federal agency will be moving more monitors to the area
to study aftershocks, which he didn’t expect to be major.  “Earthquakes of this size really only happen about once
every 30 years,” he said. “We’re still trying to get as much
information as possible.”  For folks in Mineral,  population 430 , once every 30 years
is enough. Dawn Michisk, a 25-year-old clerk, was behind the
counter of the Exxon station when the quake hit. She was hit on
the head by a small sign and was unharmed. A woman buying
Popsicles threw them on the counter and ran outside.  “There was just a lot of shaking,” Michisk said in an
interview. “It was like a funhouse.”  While she was talking to a reporter, fire marshals ordered
Michisk to close the service station as a safety precaution.  Louisa County  Sheriff Ashland Fortune said he received two
dozen reports of structural damage to buildings, including the
roof at Mineral’s single-story brick  City Hall . Two houses
collapsed. One was abandoned and in the other, no one was home.
There were no reports of serious injuries.  Residents temporarily lost electricity when nuclear  power
plants  in the state were taken off line as a precaution.  There was a primary election for a state senate seat that
went on anyway, the sheriff said.  “It’s a miracle it wasn’t worse than it was,” Fortune
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Mineral, Virginia at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  