-- 
Vornado Park Avenue Office Tower Loan Put On Watch List, Morningstar Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-08-24T23:11:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/vornado-park-avenue-office-tower-loan-put-on-watch-list-morningstar-says.html
Debt on  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) ’s 350
Park Ave., a Manhattan office tower the company acquired in
2006, was put under a loan servicer’s watch list this month,
according to a report by Morningstar Inc.  The 538,000-square-foot (50,000-square-meter) tower was put
on the list because its income from rents had fallen to less
than 110 percent of its debt payments, Morningstar Structured
Credit Ratings, formerly known as Realpoint LLC, said today.
Loans are put on a watch list when a servicer has concern about
a borrower’s ability to pay off or refinance the debt.  “The asset is currently generating insufficient net
operating income to cover debt service and Vornado has been
funding the shortfalls to date,” the Horsham, Pennsylvania-
based Morningstar unit said. Income “is not currrently expected
to recover enough through re-leasing to eliminate the shortfall
prior to the maturity of the loan,” the company said.  Wendi Kopsick, a spokeswoman for New York-based Vornado,
said she couldn’t immediately comment.  Vornado, the fifth-biggest U.S. real estate investment
trust by market value, bought the property in December 2006 for
$541.5 million, according to city records. The tower was one of
several in Midtown that were acquired for more than $1,000 a
square foot during the property boom, a price that had never
been exceeded for large office buildings.  New York office values subsequently fell more than 40
percent from a 2008 peak, according to Moody’s Investors
Service, as credit markets froze and the U.S. recession
depressed demand.  The Park Avenue property has a five-year loan of $430
million that matures in January, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The debt was placed on a watch list by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
the master servicer, according to Morningstar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  