-- 
Wall Street Banks Plan $5 Billion in CMBS Sales as Spreads Soar

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-08-24T17:59:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/wall-street-plans-5-billion-in-commercial-mortgage-debt-as-spreads-jump.html
Wall Street  banks are planning to
sell as much as $5 billion of bonds tied to commercial mortgages
as they offload loans agreed to before credit markets stumbled
and amid growing concern that the economy is faltering.  The securities will be offered in September and October,
bringing 2011 sales to about $25 billion, according to Julia Tcherkassova, a commercial-mortgage debt analyst at  Barclays
Capital  in New York.  Investors are pushing back on the debt with relative yields
rising by the most since January 2009 as U.S. unemployment
persists above 9 percent and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
worsens. Erratic moves in the values of the debt may eat into
Wall Street profits and impede commercial-real estate lending.  “It is next to impossible to quote new loans if the deal
execution is so uncertain,” Tcherkassova said.  The extra yield buyers demand to own top-ranked commercial-
mortgage debt rather than Treasuries jumped 69 basis points
since the end of July to 295 basis points, or 2.95 percentage
points, according to a Barclays Plc index. The spread reached
298 basis points on Aug. 9, the widest level since July 2010.  While a rally in Treasuries has pared a rise in  mortgage
rates  for property owners, lenders have to expand spreads to
compensate for the extra costs of selling the bonds,
Tcherkassova said.  Goldman, Citigroup  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  plan to market
a $1.5 billion deal in September that was pulled in July after
 Standard & Poor’s  yanked its ratings, according to a person
familiar with the sale. The offering will not carry grades from
S&P, whose unprecedented move to withdraw the ratings after the
bonds had been placed with investors, rankled the $600 billion
market. The deal may be increased in size, the person said.  Bank of America Corp., Morgan Stanley,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and  JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM) , are
also planning sales next month, according to people familiar
with the offerings, who declined to be identified because the
deals haven’t been announced. The banks have been pooling loans
for the upcoming deals for several months, the people said.  Wall Street banks have pulled back from originating new
loans to package into securities amid recent turmoil leading
some banks to cut issuance estimates for 2011.  Bank of America and JPMorgan had been predicting more than
$40 billion in sales this year.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America reduced its forecast to between $25 billion and
$30 billion this month. JPMorgan, based in New York, last month
pared its estimate to between $30 billion and $35 billion. Sales
have tumbled from a record $234 billion in 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are not revising yet because we still hope to see more
deals in November and December,” Tcherkassova said. Barclays
said in December it forecast $30 billion of sales in 2011.  Spreads on the safest commercial-mortgage bonds have
widened from 178 basis points in April, according to Barclays.
The extra yield soared as high 15 percentage points in November
2008 after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  