-- 
WaMu Creditors, Shareholders Make Arguments on $7 Billion Bankruptcy Plan

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-08-24T23:53:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/wamu-creditors-shareholders-make-final-reorganization-arguments.html
Washington Mutual Inc. creditors and
shareholders made final arguments for and against the company’s
$7 billion reorganization plan, disagreeing over whether hedge
funds committed  insider trading  during the almost three-year
bankruptcy of the defunct  bank holding company .  Shareholders have asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath
to reject the reorganization plan, claiming the insider-trading
allegations taint the proposal and a related settlement worth
billions of dollars.  The actions of the four hedge funds “undermine public
confidence in the bankruptcy system,” shareholder attorney
Parker C. Folse III told Walrath today at a hearing in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  WaMu is allied with the hedge funds,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in support of the plan
and the settlement. Those groups negotiated the settlement,
which splits $4 billion in cash, and billions of dollars more in
tax refunds and resolves lawsuits over who is to blame for
Seattle-based WaMu’s 2008 collapse, the biggest bank failure in
U.S. history.  Shareholders would get nothing under the reorganization
plan. They claim the hedge funds used confidential information
they gained during the negotiations to buy and sell WaMu
securities.  After listening to arguments from lawyers in the case and
several WaMu shareholders for more than nine hours, Walrath
ended the hearing without making a ruling.  “Well, thanks to the parties,” Walrath said. “I’m not
sure it brings me any closer to a decision.”  Trading Restrictions  The  hedge funds  claim the information wasn’t confidential
and deny that their trades were inappropriate. They point to
self-imposed trading restrictions they operated under during
negotiations and say some information was publicly available.  Shareholders, represented by a court-appointed committee
whose legal bills are paid by WaMu, have also asked for
permission to sue the hedge funds.  Last month, Walrath agreed to let various groups make final
presentations after initially saying she would prefer only to
hear from them in writing.  “I don’t want anybody to repeat what’s in their briefs,”
Walrath said today, referring to written submissions. “I am a
long way toward issuing a decision.”  WaMu Bankruptcy  WaMu filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26, 2008, the day after
its banking unit was taken over by regulators and sold to New
York-based JPMorgan Chase for $1.9 billion. WaMu’s Washington
Mutual Bank was the biggest bank to fail in U.S. history, with
more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in deposits.  The hedge funds that hold different sets of WaMu bonds and
convertible securities, shareholders and other creditors have
been fighting over how to divide the cash, tax refunds and new
stock to be issued in the only part of WaMu that will survive
bankruptcy, a small reinsurance company.  The case is In re  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , 08-12229,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  