-- 
Will Ferrell’s FunnyOrDie Joins With Web Firm Klout to Build Ads

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-08-24T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/will-ferrell-s-funnyordie-joins-with-web-firm-klout-to-build-ads.html
Comedian Will Ferrell’s FunnyOrDie
video website, a magnet for improv clips by celebrities, formed
a partnership with Web researcher Klout.com to promote
advertiser-sponsored entertainment.  The partners will combine their strengths to attract
advertisers and audiences, FunnyOrDie Chief Executive Officer
Dick Glover said in an interview. The closely held Los Angeles
company, with cable-TV shows on  HBO  and Comedy Central, brings a
recognizable brand, and Klout has expertise identifying
influential users of social media, he said.  FunnyOrDie, which was started in 2007 by Ferrell and his
writing and producing partner, Adam McKay, is looking to expand,
Glover said. The companies will cooperate on a variety of
projects that may include live comedy shows before an audience
of social-media users who have large followings, chosen though
Klout’s research.  “We won’t make the decision until we have a great event
that is consistent with our brand,” Glover said.  FunnyOrDie, whose backers include director Judd Apatow and
Creative Artists Agency, is looking for ways to use social media
to increase advertising without losing the hip, improvisational
tone that attracts young fans. Skits have included  Charlie Sheen 
as a warlock cook, making fun of his own bizarre persona, and
Marion Cotillard wearing plastic boobs on her forehead.  FunnyOrDie already makes a profit from Web ads, two cable
television shows and videos that help celebrities and companies
promote projects, Glover said.  Sequoia, Tanaya  Klout, based in  San Francisco , ranks social media users by
counting their followers on platforms including Twitter,
Facebook and LinkedIn, and how often their messages are relayed.
The companies are “brainstorming” about potential projects,
Klout co-founder and CEO Joe Fernandez said in an interview.  Investors include  Menlo Park , California-based  Sequoia
Capital ; Woodside, California-based Tanaya Capital and  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO. Equity holders who have contributed services
rather than cash include Gary Sanchez Productions, the film
company founded by Ferrell and McKay, Apatow and CAA.  FunnyOrDie maintains a staff of 69 and has an office in
Northern California.  “We have the same goals,”  Fernandez said. “This
partnership came together so easily because of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  