-- 
WPP First-Half Profit Beats Estimates on Ad Spending in Emerging Markets

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-08-24T16:25:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-24/wpp-profit-beats-estimates-on-spending.html
WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest
advertising company, reported first-half profit that rose more
than analysts estimated on growth in  Asia  and Latin America. The
stock rose the most in more than two years.  Profit, excluding some items such as declining value of
acquired brands and financial instruments, rose to 517.9 million
pounds ($848 million) from 455.3 million pounds a year earlier,
the London-based company said today. That beat the 512.6 million
pounds analysts estimated in a Bloomberg survey.  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Sorrell  has said he will
double spending on acquisitions this year as the company expands
into digital marketing and faster-expanding markets such as
 Brazil  to make up for slower growth in Western markets. WPP owns
advertising businesses including Young & Rubicam,  Ogilvy &
Mather  and Grey Group.  “The one great advantage WPP has in the near term is the
earlier investment and larger share of revenue coming from
emerging markets,” said  Claudio Aspesi , a London-based analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein, who rates the shares “outperform” and
doesn’t own them. “Growth in the next couple of years will have
to come from emerging markets, so the bigger the reliance on
emerging markets, the better.”  WPP climbed 7.4 percent to 623 pence in London trading, the
biggest increase since April 2009. The shares have declined 27
percent this year, giving the company a market value of 7.9
billion pounds.  Emerging Markets  Sales in Asia,  Latin America ,  Africa , the  Middle East  and
Central and Eastern Europe, which together make up almost 30
percent of revenue, grew 11 percent from a year earlier,
excluding the impact of acquisitions and currency fluctuations,
the company said. That compares with 6.1 percent overall growth.  Reported revenue grew to 4.7 billion pounds, in line with
analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Adjusted earnings per
share at 22.8 pence in the first half, up 19.4 percent, were
also in-line with estimates  In July, sales rose 4.3 percent while the gross margin was
up 5.2 percent. In the full year, the operating margin may
improve beyond the 0.7 margin points growth reported in the
first half, the company said.  The industry will get a boost from the U.S. Presidential
elections, the Olympics and the European Football Championship
next year, Sorrell said in an interview today.  “There is an events cycle of sports and politics that, in
theory, should sustain 2012,” Aspesi said. “The year that
always looked tough for the advertising agencies and WPP was
2013.”  Economic Difficulties  At the same time, economic difficulties globally, including
fears of debt problems in countries such as Spain, Greece, Italy
and  France  as well as the U.S. federal deficit, are “storm
clouds everywhere” threatening ad spending, Sorrell said.  “Given recent events, our operating companies will be even
more cautious about hiring additional staff in the balance of
this year,” the company said. “Plans, budgets for 2012 and
forecasts will, therefore, be made on a conservative basis.”  The stock has declined as investors expressed concerns
about weaknesses in the global economy and how that might affect
brands’ plans to spend on advertising, according to Numis Corp.
analyst Lorna Tilbian.  Sorrell said this month that  Standard & Poor’s  decision to
downgrade the U.S.’s long-term debt rating would hurt consumer
and business confidence and affect the advertising industry.  “There does seem to be a dissonance or disconnect between
the macro picture as defined by the stock markets and the macro
picture as defined by individual company results, which have
continued to be generally better than expectations,” the
company said in the statement. “It is true, however, that
markets look to the future, often a year or so in advance, and
are rarely wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  