-- AB InBev Muscles Up to Keep Heineken at Bay With Modelo
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-06-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/ab-inbev-muscles-up-to-keep-heineken-at-bay-with-modelo.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s possible
bid for the rest of  Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC)  heralds an intensified beer
face-off in  Mexico  as an industry once dominated by home-grown
brewers stands to lose its last local ties.  AB InBev may spend $20 billion buying the half of Modelo it
doesn’t already own, a person with knowledge of the matter said,
setting up a head-to-head matchup in Mexico between the world’s
biggest brewer and No. 3  Heineken NV (HEIA) , which acquired Modelo’s
chief domestic rival in a deal valued at $7.7 billion in 2010.  With Corona-brand maker Modelo already leading Heineken in
the world’s sixth-largest beer market, AB InBev has a chance to
boost profit by finding ways to squeeze out costs, and may be
able to grab more sales from Heineken by lowering some prices,
said Rafael Shin, an analyst at BTG Pactual in  New York .  “Any way you see it, we believe it’s going to mean more
aggressive competition for Heineken,” Shin said yesterday in an
interview. “If you’re going to pay a 20 to 30 percent premium,
which is one of our main assumptions here, we believe you’re
going to need to boost margins significantly.”  AB InBev and Mexico City-based Modelo said yesterday that
they were holding talks, without confirming the substance of
those discussions or the $20 billion figure. Leuven, Belgium-
based AB InBev inherited a 50 percent noncontrolling stake in
Modelo in the 2008 acquisition of Anheuser-Busch.  Heineken bought the beer business of  Fomento Economico
Mexicano SAB (FEMSAUBD)  in 2010, jumping into the Mexican market and
strengthening its challenge to Modelo for U.S. import sales.
Together, Modelo and Amsterdam-based Heineken control the top
five U.S. imported brands.  Regional Brands  AB InBev with full control of Modelo probably would try to
pressure Heineken by bolstering sales efforts in northern
Mexico, a stronghold for brands of the former Femsa beer unit,
which was based in Monterrey,  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at
Liberum Capital, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Further sales gains also are possible because Modelo has
done little so far to differentiate a family of beer brands that
includes Modelo Especial, Negro Modelo and Victoria, Zuanic said
in the e-mail. In a research note, he wrote: “A more aggressive
ABI can take share from Heineken-owned Femsa.”  Modelo’s Mexico market share is about 60 percent, according
to Lauren Torres, an HSBC Holdings Plc analyst in New York, and
Heineken has most of the rest through its Cuauhtemoc Moctezuma
unit, with brands such as Dos Equis and Tecate. Modelo and AB
InBev spokeswomen declined to comment yesterday, and a message
left at Heineken’s Amsterdam headquarters after regular business
hours wasn’t returned.  European Takeover  A Modelo sale to AB InBev would seal a European takeover of
an industry with deep Mexico roots. Modelo was founded in 1925,
and its chairman and chief executive officer is Carlos Fernandez Gonzalez, whose uncle married the sister of one of the founders.
Femsa, the company bought by Heineken, traces its lineage to a
brewery founded in 1890 in Monterrey.  Heineken is working to make Sol, one of its Mexican beers,
an “international brand” while conducting “relaunches” for
its Tecate and Carta Blanca lines, Chief Executive Officer Jean Francois Van Boxmeer said on a Feb. 15 conference call.  AB InBev and Modelo already have been outperforming
Heineken in investors’ eyes. Shares of both companies  jumped 41
percent  in the 12 months ended June 22, before the disclosure of
talks between the two. Heineken fell 4.4 percent in the period.  Modelo’s Surge  Modelo surged 19 percent yesterday, the most since its 1994
initial public offering, to 116.87 pesos in Mexico City. AB
InBev rose 2 percent to 56.75 euros in Brussels, Heineken fell
0.5 percent to 38.8 euros in Amsterdam. BTG Pactual’s Shin has a
buy rating on Modelo, while Zuanic of London-based Liberum
Capital recommends buying AB InBev.  Karla Miranda, a Grupo Bursatil Mexicano analyst, said the
sale of a controlling interest of Modelo may not alter its
standing in a country where it boasts a superior market share
and pricing power. Modelo reported a 1.2 percent gain in first-
quarter domestic volumes while boosting prices 7.2 percent.  “I wouldn’t expect much change in the Mexican beer
market,” Miranda said in a telephone interview from Mexico
City. “ABI is a rational competitor. It’s not a competitor that
comes in and cuts prices and destroys value.”  American drinkers’ taste for Mexican beers may be the
biggest lure for AB InBev in taking full control of Modelo. In
the first quarter, 38 percent of Modelo’s  revenue  came from
exports, and  Liberum Capital ’s Zuanic estimated that 80 percent
of the brewer’s export business was with the U.S.  Corona is the top-selling imported brand in the U.S.,
according to SymphonyIRI Group, a Chicago-based market
researcher. Two other  Modelo brands , Corona Light and Modelo
Especial, also ranked in the top five during the 13-week period
ended May 13, as did Heineken’s namesake brand and Dos Equis.  In an April 23 report, Miranda wrote that she saw a
potential stock gain for Modelo because of the prospect of a
takeover. She had the  shares  rated as market underperform.  “A deal would give Modelo’s brands more exposure at the
global level,” Miranda said yesterday. “With ABI’s network,
Modelo would reach a lot more countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Dallas at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  