-- AB InBev Deal for Modelo Said Valued at $20 Billion
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-06-26T19:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/ab-inbev-deal-for-modelo-said-valued-at-20-billion-correct-.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  may spend
about $20 billion buying the half of  Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC)  it doesn’t
already own, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  That’s the enterprise value for the transaction and would
include a premium for the Corona maker as well as a payment to
 Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ)  to buy a stake in a distribution joint
venture, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the matter is private. AB InBev and Modelo confirmed the talks
in statements today.  “This deal would mean the biggest step forward since the
Anheuser-Busch transaction in 2008, creating new growth
opportunities and making one of the best and strongest consumer-
goods companies even stronger,” Marc Leemans, an analyst at
Banque Degroof SA in Brussels, said in a note.  AB InBev, based in Leuven,  Belgium , gained a non-
controlling 50 percent stake in Modelo when InBev NV bought Bud
Lite brewer Anheuser-Busch Cos. in 2008 for $52 billion, the
biggest brewing deal ever. Brewers are among consumer-goods
companies looking to expand outside of  Europe  as high
unemployment and sluggish economies hold back growth.  The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that the
companies were close to a deal.  Constellation Brands  Modelo shares rose 14 percent to 112 pesos at 1:03 p.m.,
after earlier gaining as much as 17 percent, the biggest
intraday advance since Feb. 17, 1994. The company’s market value
climbed to about 362.4 billion pesos ($26 billion). AB InBev
rose 2 percent to 56.75 euros at the close in Brussels.  “These talks might or might not lead to a consummation of
a transaction and any speculation on the terms and conditions is
premature,”  Grupo Modelo , Mexico’s largest brewer, said in a
statement to the Mexican stock exchange. AB InBev, the world’s
largest brewer, confirmed the discussions separately.  The purchase may be announced as soon as this week,
according to the person, who asked not to be identified as the
discussions are confidential. The deal isn’t completed and may
still fall through, the person said.  If AB InBev acquires the Modelo stake, the Mexican company
would have to pay Constellation Brands about $1.7 billion to
gain control of their joint venture to import beer into the
U.S., said analysts at Credit Suisse including Charlie Mills in
 London . The venture expires at the end of 2016 and it states
that Modelo can notify Constellation of its desire to purchase
their stake at any point until the end of 2013, a Credit Suisse
note said. Constellation  shares  rose as much as 14 percent in
 New York  today.  Musical Chairs  An acquisition of the rest of Modelo by AB InBev would mean
“the strong one becomes even stronger,” said Mikihiko Yamato,
deputy head of research for JI Asia in  Tokyo . “It’s like
musical chairs, and the good deals are taken by strong ones
first, and there is not much left for the rest.”  Modelo had sought to prevent Anheuser-Busch from selling
its stake to InBev as part of the 2008 merger that also gave AB
InBev nine of Modelo’s 19 board seats. At the time of the
transaction, Modelo Chief Executive Officer Carlos Fernandez
said that his company was interested in buying back Anheuser-
Busch’s non-controlling stake, which the Budweiser-maker bought
in the 1990s.  In July 2010, Modelo lost an arbitration bid to deny board
seats to some AB InBev directors. Modelo has expanded in the
U.S. and in other countries without using AB InBev’s
distribution network.  ‘Next Big Step’  Modelo’s market value gives it a price-to-earnings ratio of
about 28.7, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with an average of 26.3 for peers in the industry.
Japan’s  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) ’s ratio is almost 121, while  Heineken
NV (HEIA) , which competes with Modelo in Mexico after buying  Fomento
Economico Mexicano SAB (FEMSAUB) ’s brewing unit in 2010, trades at almost
28 times earnings, the data shows.  “Modelo is the next best step AB InBev should make,”
 Gerard Rijk , an analyst at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, wrote
yesterday in an e-mail, saying it allows the company to profit
from cost-cutting.  AB InBev has been formed by a series of takeovers to create
a company with  brands including  Beck’s, Bass, Labatt Blue and
 Stella Artois .  The company has cut debt from the Anheuser-Busch deal and
agreed to buy control of Cerveceria Nacional Dominicana for
$1.24 billion in April, boosting its expansion with the addition
of the Dominican Republic’s biggest beermaker.  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-biggest brewer by volume,
agreed to buy Foster’s Group Ltd. in Australia last year for
about A$10.5 billion ($10.53 billion).  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at  Liberum Capital  in London,
today cut SABMiller to sell from hold on the grounds that
speculation of a bid from AB InBev may fade.  SABMiller dropped as much as 2.2 percent in London trading
and was down 1.7 percent at 2,460.5 pence at 4:25 p.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Dallas at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  