-- Madison Square Garden Co. Buying Ex-Home of L.A. Lakers
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-06-26T20:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/madison-square-garden-co-buying-ex-home-of-l-a-lakers.html
Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) , the
sports and entertainment company that owns the  New York Knicks ,
will acquire the former home of the  Los Angeles  Lakers and Kings
for $23.5 million.  MSG is buying the Forum arena in Inglewood, California,
from Forum Enterprises Inc., a church-owned corporation,
according to a statement today. Acquiring the venue, which
hosted the  National Basketball Association ’s Lakers and the
National Hockey League’s Kings games until 1999, is part of a
company strategy of renovating historic sites, MSG said.  The Forum extends MSG’s real estate and event-planning
reach to the greater Los Angeles area and challenges Anschutz
Entertainment Group, which operates the 19,000-seat Staples
Center and 7,100-seat Nokia Theatre in the city’s downtown, for
concerts and shows.  The purchase price was “in line with investors’ hopes”
and “less than feared,”  David Joyce , a New York-based analyst
at Miller Tabak & Co., said in a note to clients. The purchase
could result in a 7.5 percent annual return on investment, Joyce
estimated.  MSG already owns Madison Square Garden, Radio City  Music
Hall , New York’s Beacon Theatre, the Chicago Theatre and
Boston’s Wang Theater. MSG’s  entertainment division  made up 8.6
percent of the company’s total revenue for quarter ended March
31.  Renovation Spending  MSG renovated Radio City Music Hall in 1999 and the Beacon
Theatre in 2009. The company is also currently modernizing
Madison Square Garden.  The addition of the Forum will allow for cross-promotion of
“Fuse,” MSG’s all-music television network, MSG CEO Hank Ratner said in the statement. The Forum held concerts for bands
including the Rolling Stones, the Jackson 5 and Coldplay during
the 1960s, ’70s, ’80s and ’90s.  The city of Inglewood, California, where the Forum is
located, will give MSG an $18-million commercial rehabilitation
loan as long as MSG spends $50 million on improvements, the Los
Angeles Times  reported . MSG has guaranteed to sell a set amount
of tickets for events in the Forum each year as part of the
deal.  “We are honored to be adding the Forum to our iconic list
of venues, and to call Inglewood our West Coast home,”  James Dolan , executive chairman of New York-based MSG, said in the
statement.  AEG’s president  Tim Leiweke  questioned the security of the
neighborhood surrounding the Forum and dismissed the venue as a
“class B” venue, according to the Times.  Michael Roth , a spokesman for Los Angeles-based AEG,
declined to comment.  MSG shares fell 0.9 percent to $36.76 at the close in New
York. The stock has risen 28 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  