-- Madoff Trustee Can’t Recoup Investments, Defendants Say
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-06-26T17:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/madoff-trustee-can-t-recoup-investments-defendants-say.html
The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s
firm is barred by state and federal laws from taking back money
invested with a brokerage, almost 300 defendants told U.S.
District Judge Jed S. Rakoff in court papers.  Madoff’s customers are entitled to interest, damages and
opportunity costs in addition to their principal, and can keep
deposits made in the two years before the con man’s Ponzi scheme
collapsed, according to the joint brief filed in federal court
in Manhattan. Rakoff has allowed the trustee,  Irving Picard , to
try to claw back fake profits received by investors during the
two-year period.  The defendants range from ABN Amro Bank NV and Nomura
Holdings Inc. affiliates to the trustee liquidating former
Madoff investor  Ezra Merkin ’s hedge funds and accountant Frank
Avellino. In trying to take more than two years of Ponzi profits
from brokerage customers, Picard “improperly reads” the
 bankruptcy code , they said in asking the judge to dismiss the
trustee’s lawsuits.  “The trustee’s proposed method has no doctrinal or legal
support, produces unfair and absurd results, and should be
rejected,” they said in yesterday’s filing.  Greiff Ruling  Rakoff previously told the defendants not to repeat any
arguments he had made and decided in an earlier case dealing
with brokerage customers’ rights, involving investor James
Greiff. Rakoff ruled in that case that a brokerage customer’s
account statements don’t protect against all clawbacks. The
judge also said that Picard can only recoup two years of fake
profits, not the six years he sought.  Rakoff’s takeover of hundreds of Picard lawsuits demanding
billions of dollars has undercut U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland ’s power to reverse some fraudulent transfers and limited
Picard’s ability to collect money to pay investors in Madoff’s
$57 billion Ponzi scheme, the largest in U.S. history. Rakoff
and U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  together knocked out $90
billion of Picard’s claims against banks including JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Picard has filed more than 1,000 lawsuits while charging
$273 million for his firm’s Madoff work. Madoff is serving a
150-year prison sentence.  The Rakoff docket for Picard’s suits is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC
12-mc-0115, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The Greiff case is Picard v. Greiff, 11-cv-03775,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  