-- Aeroflot Gains 1st Day in 6 as Navalny Joins Board: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-06-26T16:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/aeroflot-gains-1st-day-in-6-as-navalny-joins-board-moscow-mover.html
OAO Aeroflot rose for the first day
in six on bets the election of Russian opposition leader and
anti-corruption blogger Alexey Navalny to the state-controlled
airline’s board will improve efficiency.  Aeroflot shares advanced 0.7 percent to 42.44 rubles by the
close in Moscow. The stock has declined 11 percent this quarter.  “Investor sentiment is improving on the Navalny news,”
Peter Westin, chief strategist at Aton Capital in Moscow, said
by phone. “People are clinging onto any positive corporate
governance signs in this environment.”  Navalny, a Moscow-based lawyer and shareholder in Russian
companies including OAO Gazprom and OAO Rosneft, was elected to
Aeroflot’s board yesterday, according to an e-mailed company
statement. Billionaire  Alexander Lebedev , who controls about 15
percent of Aeroflot as an independent director, nominated
Navalny, whose apartment was searched by police amid protests
against President  Vladimir Putin  this month.  “Navalny’s election to the board of directors could
theoretically boost the company’s capitalization,” Lebedev said
today. “We’re trying to create a precedent of a state company
that is managed as well as a private one.”  Minority Shareholders  Russia controls 51 percent of Aeroflot, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Aeroflot’s capitalization is 47.1 billion
rubles ($1.43 billion).  “Aeroflot won’t interfere with Navalny’s political work,”
Anna Veduta, Navalny’s spokeswoman said by phone from Moscow.
“His main activity this entire time has been the fight against
corruption. This is a logical move.”  Navalny doesn’t plan to join any other corporate boards,
according to Veduta.  “Minority shareholders have gained their representative in
the board of directors,” Kirill Bagachenko, who manages about
$3 billion in Russian equities, including Aeroflot shares, at
TKB BNP Paribas Investment Partners in  St. Petersburg , said by
phone on June 25. “This may improve the corporate practice.”  Igor Lojevsky, executive director of Deutsche Bank AG in
Moscow, also joined the board, according to the statement.  “Those who fear Navalny are the ones that have something
to fear,” Aeroflot Chief Executive Officer Vitaly Savelyev said
in February after the nomination. Savelyev was re-appointed to
the board, according to yesterday’s e-mailed company statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  