-- Apollo Group Gains the Most in a Year on Profit Forecast
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-06-26T20:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/apollo-group-gains-the-most-in-eight-months-on-profit-forecast.html
Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , the largest U.S.
for-profit college chain, gained the most in a year after
reporting quarterly earnings and revenue that topped analysts’
estimates and raising its full-year profit forecast.  Profit for the year excluding one-time items will be as
much as $740 million, up from a  prior  projection of as much as
$725 million, the owner of the University of Phoenix said in a
statement yesterday after the close of regular trading.  Apollo, confronting student reluctance to take on debt amid
high unemployment and government investigations of for-profit
colleges’ marketing practices, reined in costs during the
quarter, said  Peter Appert , an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. in
 San Francisco .  “It’s a very challenging environment,” Appert, who has a
neutral rating on the stock, said in a telephone interview.
“The business dynamics facing for-profit education have clearly
changed in the last couple of years.”  Apollo, based in Phoenix, climbed 10 percent at the close
in  New York , the most  since  June 2011. The shares have declined
34 percent this year.  In the three months ended May 31 -- Apollo’s fiscal third
quarter -- net income fell to $134.4 million, or $1.13 a share,
from $212.4 million, or $1.51, a year earlier, Apollo said.
Profit excluding some items was $1.20 a share, exceeding the 97-
cent average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Enrollment Falls  Costs were lower than forecast in the quarter, and the
company bought back shares, Appert said in an e-mail. Apollo
said that marketing expenses dropped $2.2 million to $158.9
million.  As of the end of May, a total of 346,300 students were
enrolled in Apollo degree programs, down 13 percent from a year
earlier. New students signing up for classes decreased 8
percent. In March, the company said new student enrollment could
“break into negative double digits” in the third quarter.  Investors are looking for signs that enrollment is
stabilizing, following a decline that began at the end of 2010,
Appert said.  In the quarter, sales fell 8.5 percent, to $1.13 billion,
compared with the $1.12 billion estimate of analysts. Yesterday,
Apollo reiterated that revenue for the year is expected to be as
much as $4.3 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  