-- Apple, Google, Investment Banks: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-06-26T12:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/apple-google-investment-bankers-teva-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. and Motorola Mobility,
the mobile phone-making unit of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , lost bids for court
orders barring each other from infringing their patents.  U.S. Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner in Chicago denied the
requests for relief in a 38-page court order issued on June 22,
ending a lawsuit started in 2010. A copy of the ruling couldn’t
immediately be obtained from the court and was provided to
Bloomberg News by a Motorola Mobility spokeswoman.  “Neither party is entitled to an injunction,” Posner
wrote. “Neither has shown that damages would not be an adequate
remedy.”  Earlier this month, the judge rejected each company’s
money-damages theories and canceled a jury trial set for June
11. “That was a simple failure of proof,” not that damages are
incalculable, Posner said.  That trial would have been the first between Apple -- whose
iPhones are the world’s most popular line of mobile phone and
Google, whose Android operating system is the world’s most-used
mobile phone platform -- since Google completed its $12.5
billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility last month.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, confirmed Posner’s ruling in a telephone interview
on June 24. She declined to comment on the court’s decision.  “We are pleased that Judge Posner formally dismissed the
case against Motorola Mobility,”  Jennifer Erickson , a
spokeswoman for the Google unit, said in an e-mailed statement.
“As it relates to Apple’s violation of our patents, we will
continue our efforts to defend our own innovation.”  Separately, the U.S. International Trade Commission  said 
yesterday it will review whether Apple, which gets about 75
percent of its revenue from the iPhone, iPad and related
products, infringed four patents held by Google’s Motorola
Mobility unit. A trade judge in April said Apple infringed one
of the patents.  The commission also asked lawyers in the case, and the
public, for comments on how to proceed when infringed patents
cover aspects of technology that are adopted by an entire
industry so electronic devices work across platforms.  “There’s some sort of movement to reduce ‘competition
through litigation,’” said  Will Stofega , a program manager at
researcher IDC in Framingham, Massachusetts. “They really want
to bring this whole issue to a head. Patent litigation is part
of the ordinary due course of business, but this has gone beyond
that.”  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission, a half-dozen members of
Congress and companies including  Intel Corp . and Cisco Systems
Inc. have in recent weeks questioned whether companies that
helped develop standards should be able to get orders from the
ITC to block competitors’ use of the technology.  The ITC will review aspects of all four Motorola Mobility
patents in the case against Apple. Of the 13 questions it posed
to lawyers yesterday, eight are related to handling standard-
essential patents. Should it side with Motorola Mobility, the
agency has the power to order U.S. Customs and Border Protection
to stop iPhones and iPad computers made in Asia from entering
the U.S.  The federal court case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Motorola Mobility
Inc., 11-cv-8540, U.S. District Court for the Northern District
of Illinois (Chicago). The ITC case against Apple is In the
Matter of Wireless Communication Devices, Portable Music and
Data Processing Devices, Computers and Components Thereof,
337-745, and Apple’s case against Motorola Mobility is In the
Matter of Mobile Devices and Related Software, 337-750, both
U.S. International Trade.  For more on the ITC cases, click here.  Patents  Supreme Court Seeks U.S. Views in Drug Testing Patent Royalties  The U.S.  Supreme Court  asked the  Justice Department  to
outline the government’s view on whether drugmakers can be
forced to pay patent royalties for tests they conduct on the
safety or proper dosage of approved medicines.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  has filed an appeal at the Supreme
Court arguing that a royalty exemption given to drugmakers while
they’re seeking regulatory approval for new treatments should
also apply to post-approval testing. The London-based company is
fighting a lawsuit by Classen Immunotherapies Inc., which says
Glaxo is infringing its patents on methods for scheduling
vaccinations to limit patients’ risk of developing other
disorders.  The Supreme Court yesterday held off on deciding whether to
hear Glaxo’s appeal until the federal government files a brief
presenting its analysis of the case.  The dispute is over tests Glaxo conducted to evaluate
whether there was any correlation between its vaccines and
disorders including diabetes. Baltimore-based Classen, whose
founder claims there is a link, obtained patents on evaluating
risks and altering vaccination schedules.  The case is GlaxoSmithKline v. Classen Immunotherapies
Inc., 11-1078.  Investment Banks Seek Business in Patent Deals as M&A Work Slows  Amid the dearth of global mergers and acquisitions, a
handful of investment banks are finding business advising
companies on patent sales.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) ,  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  are
banking on a turf typically dominated by lawyers. While global
mergers and acquisitions volume is down 27 percent so far this
year, patent deals have jumped in the past 12 months to $18.8
billion from $450 million the year before, according to
calculations based on data compiled by Bloomberg. The
competition among Apple Inc., Google Inc.,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  to dominate the wireless market largely accounts
for the rise.  “Patents have historically been a small, private and
illiquid asset. Now you have money piling in from all kinds of
sources,” said Robert Heath, head of corporate development at
 RPX Corp. (RPXC) , a San Francisco-based firm that buys and licenses
patents.  For technology companies patents have become a valuable
asset to wield against competitors and to defend themselves
against  intellectual-property  infringement lawsuits. Activist
investors including  Carl Icahn  and hedge fund Starboard Value LP
have been riding the trend, urging companies such as Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. and AOL Inc. to extract value from their
patents as well.  Until recently, most Wall Street firms stayed on the
sidelines in patent deals because they’ve been “too much of a
niche asset,” said Craig Opperman, partner and intellectual-
property asset specialist at law firm DLA Piper LLP. “Lazard,
Evercore and Barclays are the banks that I come across the
most” in patent deals, said Opperman, based in Palo Alto,
California.  “Banks are contributing to make the patent market more
liquid by attracting more potential buyers,” said David Berten,
founder and partner of Global IP Law Group LLC, a Chicago-based
law firm, which advised Nortel together with Lazard.  For more, click here.  Teva Shares Rise on Ruling that Sandoz, Mylan Infringed Patents  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  rose 4.50 percent
yesterday on the news that a federal court found that its
patents for its multiple sclerosis drug Copaxone were valid.  Teva had sued  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz unit  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  and
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MNTA) ,
saying their attempts to seek permission to sell Copaxone copies
infringed its patents.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in Manhattan on June 22
ruled that drug applications made by Sandoz and Mylan “infringe
all of the asserted claims.”  Eric Altof, a spokesman for Novartis, said in an e-mail
that the company declined to comment.  “Although Mylan is disappointed in the court’s decision,
and while we have not yet had the opportunity to review the
court’s opinion, we fully intend to evaluate our options for an
appeal once the Court’s full opinion becomes available,” Mylan
Chief Executive Officer Heather Bresch said in a statement,
adding that Mylan’s earnings “are not reliant on the launch of
a generic Copaxone.”  Although the order doesn’t name Momenta, Chief Executive
Officer Craig Wheeler said in a statement the company will
appeal the ruling.  “We are disappointed that the court determined that Teva’s
patents were valid and infringed, and we look forward to reading
the full opinion to understand its reasoning,” Wheeler said in
the statement.  The case is Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. v. Sandoz Inc.,
08-cv-07611, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Law Firm Moves  Intellectual Property Group Joins Troutman Sanders in New York  Louis J. DelJuidice, of counsel Hiroyuki Yasuda and patent
agent Nicole R. Sullivan have joined the New York office of
Troutman Sanders LLP. The three previously worked at McDermott
Will & Emery LLP.  DelJuidice focuses his practice on litigation, patent
prosecution and client counseling in the electromechanical,
cellular telephone, computer and medical device areas. Part of
his practice involves managing portfolios for U.S. and Japanese
clients, as well as auditing and performing due diligence on
intellectual property assets in the furtherance of licensing.
“Troutman Sanders provides a great platform to service my
clients in Asia, particularly in Japan, and is committed to the
region,” DelJuidice said.  Yasuda also focuses on patent litigation and prosecution,
particularly in the areas of mechanical, electromechanical and
medical device technologies. Sullivan focuses her work on U.S.
and foreign patent prosecution in the biotechnology,
pharmaceutical, bioengineering and molecular biology fields.  Troutman Sanders has more than 600 lawyers in 15 offices
throughout the U.S. and China.  Deals  Microsoft Agrees to Acquire Yammer for $1.2 Billion in Cash  Microsoft Corp. agreed to buy corporate social-network
operator Yammer Inc. for $1.2 billion in cash to help it woo
businesses with Facebook-like tools that help employees
collaborate in the workplace.  San Francisco-based Yammer will become part of Microsoft’s
Office division and the team will continue to report to current
Yammer Chief Executive Officer David Sacks, the companies said
yesterday in a statement.  Yammer provides features -- similar to those found on
Facebook Inc. -- to more than 200,000 companies such as Ford
Motor Co. and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  The purchase will help Microsoft compete
with corporate-social features like  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) ’s
Chatter product, as well as startups such as  Jive Software Inc. (JIVE) 
and Asana Inc., run by Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, could add Yammer’s
corporate-social networking tools to its Office and SharePoint
software products for businesses. Large information-technology
companies are snapping up nimbler startups, sometimes before
they reach an initial public offering, spending $17.4 billion on
enterprise software acquisitions in 2011, compared with $715.5
million in 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Yammer deal follows other recent enterprise software
purchases centered around social media. Salesforce.com gained
social-marketing tools through its $745 million purchase of
Buddy Media Inc. earlier this month, and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  recently
bought two companies that analyze data on social-media sites.
Those are Vitrue Inc. and Collective Intellect Inc.  Quest Gets $27.50-a-Share Bid, Topping Insight Buyout Offer  Quest Software Inc. (QSFT) , the software maker that agreed to be
bought by a group led by Insight Venture Partners, said it has
received a higher offer of $27.50 a share in cash, the third
buyout increase announced this year.  The bid from an unidentified strategic suitor is superior
to a $25.75-a-share offer Quest accepted from Insight last week,
the Aliso Viejo, California-based software company said
yesterday in a statement.  Dell Inc. (DELL)  had previously offered to
acquire Quest, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Quest said on March 9 it agreed to be acquired by Insight
for $23 a share, and two months later said it received several
other proposals that it anticipated would lead to a superior
offer. Chief Executive Officer Vincent Smith prefers a sale to
Insight over Dell because it would allow him to keep running the
company, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
negotiations are private.  Tracy Benelli, a Quest spokeswoman, and  Jess Blackburn , a
Dell spokesman didn’t immediately return calls for comment.
Blair Flicker, general counsel at Insight Venture Partners,
declined to comment.  Quest’s software helps businesses administer databases and
servers, as well as back up information and recover lost data.
Insight, a New York-based private equity firm, specializes in
software and Internet businesses.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 