-- Arab Spring Spawns New Generation of U.K. Jihadists, MI5 Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-06-26T11:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/arab-spring-spawns-new-generation-of-u-k-jihadists-mi5-says.html
The Arab Spring has spawned a new
generation of British would-be terrorists drawn to the area for
training, said the head of MI5, the U.K.’s domestic intelligence
agency.  In a speech in London late yesterday,  Jonathan Evans  said
the uprisings in Arab states posed an “immediate” threat to
security as al-Qaeda moved in to take advantage of instability
in the region.  “Today, parts of the Arab world have once more become a
permissive environment for al-Qaeda,” Evans said, according to
the text of his speech on  MI5’s Website . “This is the
completion of a cycle -- al-Qaeda first moved to  Afghanistan  in
the 1990s due to pressure in their Arab countries of origin.
They moved on to  Pakistan  after the fall of the Taliban. And now
some are heading home to the Arab world again.”  “And a small number of British would-be jihadis are also
making their way to Arab countries to seek training and
opportunities for militant activity, as they do in Somalia and
Yemen,” he said. “Some will return to the U.K. and pose a
threat here.”  Any suggestions that the threat from al-Qaeda in Pakistan
has “evaporated” since the assassination of  Osama bin Laden 
last year are misguided, he said. “In back rooms and in cars
and on the streets of this country there is no shortage of
individuals talking about wanting to mount terrorist attacks
here.”  ‘Credible’ Plots  Britain has experienced a “credible” terrorist plot about
once a year since the September 2001 attacks on the U.S., he
said, adding that counter-terrorism methods used against
Islamist militants by the security services have improved. “You
could say that we are near to reaching a form of stalemate --
they haven’t stopped trying but we have got better at stopping
them.”  Evans highlighted the prospect of Iran acting as a state-
sponsor of global terrorism, pointing to attacks against Israeli
interests and the attempt to assassinate the Saudi ambassador in
the U.S.  He also raised the specter of a euro-area collapse leading
to the rise of political extremism and said he was working to
prevent attacks from lone-wolf extremists such as Anders Breivik, the Norwegian who killed 77 people on July 22.  He also said boards “should consider the vulnerability of
their own company to these risks as part of their normal
corporate governance -- and they should require their key
advisers and suppliers to do the same.”  “One major  London  listed company with which we have worked
estimates that it incurred revenue losses of some 800 million
pounds as a result of hostile state cyber attack -- not just
through intellectual property loss but also from commercial
disadvantage in contractual negotiations,” he said. “They
will not be the only corporate victim of these problems.”  He said he is confident the London Olympic Games, which
start in a month, will go ahead without disruption. “The games
are not an easy target and the fact that we have disrupted
multiple terrorist plots here and abroad in recent years
demonstrates that the U.K. as a whole is not an easy target for
terrorism,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  