-- Large Says BOE’s New Powers Need Not Overwhelm Policy Makers
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-06-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/large-says-boe-s-new-powers-need-not-overwhelm-policy-makers.html
Former Bank of England Deputy
Governor Andrew Large said the expansion of the bank’s powers to
include financial regulation may be manageable, and keeping them
in a separate institution presents its own problems.  Lawmakers are considering a new bill that will give the
central bank tools to promote financial stability as it absorbs
the Financial Services Authority’s oversight functions. The
breadth of responsibilities led Labour Party lawmaker  Ed Balls 
to say in April that the person who replaces Governor  Mervyn King  after he retires next year “will face a near-impossible
task” to manage it all.  “Systemic policy and supervisory policy do interact,
there’s no question about it,” Large said in an interview in
London yesterday. “Managing the process of how they work
together may be easier than if the activities were in two
separate entities. There’s no panacea.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said this month
he will further expand the bank’s goals by making it a “legal
requirement for the Financial Policy Committee to report, for
every action it takes, how that action is compatible with
economic growth as well as stability.” The panel will present
the results of its latest policy meeting, and its semi-annual
report on Financial Stability, on June 29.  ‘Hijacked Goals’  “There’s little doubt the bank is being given very wide-
ranging powers,” Large said. “As an unelected body in any
democratic process, questions are going to be asked about how
accountability can be assured.”  Speaking at a conference hosted by the  Official Monetary
and Financial Institutions Forum , Large said it was “entirely
sensible” to give the FPC a secondary objective concerning
growth, modeled on the goals for the Monetary Policy Committee.
However, giving the two objectives equal footing may allow
policy to get “hijacked” by those looking to aid expansion.  “That would be a recipe for disaster,” he said. The skill
sets needed for both goals are different, and with a dual
mandate, “things tend to fall between the cracks,” he said.  Large, who became deputy governor in 2002 and left in 2006,
also said that officials in heavily indebted countries need
credible fiscal plans to keep “bond vigilantes” at bay. Still,
some types of spending may be acceptable, such as infrastructure
projects.  “Certain types of infrastructure expenditure, if well
thought through, will be regarded by bond vigilantes as
providing a return on investment and therefore justifiable,” he
said. “To the extent that people are involved in those projects
it can have an impact on confidence, demand and supply.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  