-- Mario Monti and the Limits of Technocracy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-26T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/mario-monti-and-the-limits-of-technocracy.html
When Mario Monti was appointed --
not elected -- prime minister of  Italy  in November, most
Italians saw him as a welcome respite from the flamboyant,
bankrupt leadership of  Silvio Berlusconi . With the economy
 headed for collapse , technocratic leadership and a break from
politics as usual were exactly what they wanted. So they
thought.  Now, opinion polls put Monti’s approval rating at slightly
more than 30 percent, down from more than 70 percent at the
start of his tenure. The country’s media are disenchanted. Monti
has failed to produce the miracle that Italy was hoping for,
offering only painful remedies for years of misgovernment. It
turns out that politics matter, and technocrats aren’t much good
at politics.  Monti, an academic and former top European Union civil
servant, has lived up to his reputation for getting things done.
“ Super Mario ,” as the press called him, quickly appointed a team
of fellow policy professionals, announced long-overdue austerity
measures including tax increases and cuts in pensions, and
proposed significant reform of Italy’s arcane labor laws.  Despite some necessary compromises with unions, the
measures have improved the country’s fiscal outlook. Italy’s
primary budget surplus (excluding debt payments) is on track to
exceed 4 percent of gross domestic product next year, according
to the  International Monetary Fund  -- enough, at reasonable
 interest rates , to stabilize the government’s debt burden.  Overwhelming Debt  Unfortunately, Monti has inherited an accumulated public
debt large enough --  at 120 percent of GDP  -- to overwhelm his
efforts to close the gap between current revenue and outlays.
With investors’ confidence rattled, the cost of rolling over the
debt is becoming prohibitive. If the bond yield -- currently
hovering around 6 percent, up from 4 percent two years ago --
stays high enough for long enough, the country will be
insolvent.  A little help from  Europe  could make a big difference.
Italy’s banks aren’t as troubled as  Spain ’s, so the crisis could
quickly recede if confidence in Italy’s ability to refinance its
public debt could be restored. In recent days, Monti has been
urging EU leaders to back a plan that would allow the European
Stability Mechanism -- the EU’s new bailout facility -- to buy
Spanish and Italian bonds. We have backed this idea, while
cautioning that the plan would have to be given adequate
resources and, ideally,  that the European Central Bank should
stand behind it .  European support, though, won’t ease the political
difficulties that Monti faces. He still needs to maintain fiscal
discipline, eliminate barriers to business and make it easier to
hire and fire workers. As the IMF  stressed in a recent report  on
the Italian economy, Italy’s business environment is still
“difficult,” its labor market still “fragmented.” The IMF
estimates that further reform in product and labor markets would
raise Italy’s medium-term GDP by 6 percent.  There’s only so much a technocratic leadership can achieve.
In a democracy, a sustained effort at institutional and economic
reform -- changes that make powerful interests worse off even as
they advance overall  living standards  -- must be underwritten by
voters. Politicians must put forward the case for painful
measures and win a mandate to make them happen.  In a broken political system, which Italy’s is, the rule of
technocrats can serve a vital temporary purpose. We applaud what
Monti has done. But as Italy’s economic crisis escalates once
again, its leaders can no longer put politics aside. That’s both
understandable and inevitable, if not all that encouraging.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Supreme Court’s Montana
decision ; Clive Crook on U.S.  health care’s overheated politics ;
 Edward Glaeser  on the  troubling history of federal mandates ;
Vali Nasr on what  Pakistan tells us about Egypt ;  Peter Orszag  on
 natural-gas cars and trucks ; Richard J. Carroll on why a
president’s economic performance  depends on his predecessor’s
record ; John C. Dugan and T. Timothy Ryan Jr. on why the Dodd-
Frank law  puts to rest “too big to fail .”  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 