-- Arizona Wins First College Baseball Championship in 26 Years
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-26T04:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/arizona-wins-first-college-baseball-championship-in-26-years.html
The  University of Arizona  captured
its first baseball national title since 1986 with a two-game
sweep of two-time defending champion  South Carolina  in the
College World Series finals.  Arizona  scored  three runs  in the top of the ninth inning
last night in Omaha,  Nebraska , to beat  South Carolina  4-1 and
end the season with 11 straight victories. Brandon Dixon
delivered a run-scoring double for the Wildcats to snap a 1-1
tie and Trent Gilbert followed with a two-run single.  Arizona (48-17), which had defeated the Gamecocks 5-1 two
days ago in the opening game of the best-of-three finals, also
won national titles in 1970 and 1980.  “It’s been an unbelievable journey with this group,”
Arizona coach Andy Lopez said in a televised interview.  Lopez also coached  Pepperdine University  to the 1992
championship and joins Augie Garrido as the second coach to lead
two schools to the National Collegiate Athletic Association
baseball title. Garrido won the College World Series twice at
Cal State-Fullerton and three times while at the  University of
Texas .  Arizona took a 1-0 lead last night in the top of the third
inning, when first baseman Joseph Maggi led off with a double,
moved to third on a sacrifice bunt and scored on a groundout.  South Carolina tied it in the bottom of the seventh inning
as Christian Walker walked, advanced to third on a single by
Adam Matthews and scored on a groundout.  The Wildcats then struck for three runs against South
Carolina’s bullpen in the ninth inning, when Robert Refsnyder
led off with a single and scored the go-ahead run on the double
by Dixon. Gilbert’s two-out single drove in two more runs,
providing a three-run cushion that looked to be needed when the
Gamecocks loaded the bases in the bottom of the inning.  Mathew Troupe then retired Tanner English on a line drive
to second base and Grayson Greiner on a fly ball to close out
the win and set off an infield celebration by the Wildcats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  