-- Martha’s Vineyard Fishermen Drop Suit Against Cape Wind
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-06-26T20:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/martha-s-vineyard-fishermen-drop-lawsuit-against-cape-wind.html
A group of fishermen agreed to
support a wind farm proposed for Nantucket Sound in
 Massachusetts , dropping a federal lawsuit against the project.  The Martha’s Vineyard/Dukes County Fishermen’s Association
reached a settlement with  Cape Wind Associates LLC , Warren Doty,
president of the association, said today on a conference call
with reporters. Terms of the agreement weren’t disclosed. The
fishermen had claimed in the suit the project would threaten
fishing grounds.  The agreement removes a barrier for the 468-megawatt wind
farm that has been in the works for more than a decade. It faces
other hurdles, including additional pending lawsuits, an
approval from the  Federal Aviation Administration  that must be
reviewed and opposition from the Kennedy family, which owns a
compound in the region.  “Instead of being on different ends of the fence, we’re
going to work together to determine which areas are open to
fishing, what areas will be successful for different kinds of
fishing and how to make that fishing safe and available to all
fishermen,” Doty said.  The Massachusetts Fishermen’s Partnership, which says it’s
the state’s largest commercial fishing organization, said in an
e-mailed statement today that it remains opposed to the wind
farm.  Project Financing  Financing for Cape Wind “has begun,”  Mark Rodgers , a Cape
Wind spokesman, said on the call. “We’ll have an announcement
in the future when we’ve completed it.”  He said construction may begin next year, and the project
may be operational by 2015. More than three-quarters of the
power that will be generated already has been sold.  The fishermen’s group and Jonathan Mayhew, a fisherman on
the island, sued the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management and
Secretary of the Interior  Ken Salazar  in June 2010, claiming
that the agency’s decision to approve the wind farm violated
federal laws.  “Development of the Cape Wind Energy Project will cause an
effective closure of prime, historic fishing grounds on
Horseshoe Shoal,” the plaintiffs said in the complaint, filed
in federal court in  Washington .  Mayhew is a fisherman who relies on squid fishing on
Horseshoe Shoal for his livelihood, according to the complaint.
Court papers state that his ancestors came to America on the
Mayflower and have earned a living from the sea since the
colonial era, according to court filings.  The stipulation to dismiss the claims was filed today in
Washington, according to court records.  This case is Public Employees for Environmental
Responsibility v. Bromwich, 10-01067, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  