-- Artnet Shareholders Mull Takeover as CEO Neuendorf Quits
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-06-26T11:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/artnet-shareholders-mull-takeover-as-ceo-quits.html
Two shareholders of  Artnet AG (ART)  said
they are weighing a bid to acquire the art-market-data provider
next month. The company’s founder and chief executive officer
Hans Neuendorf said he opposes a takeover.  Artnet announced yesterday that Neuendorf, 74, will step
down as CEO to make way for his son Jacob Pabst with effect from
July 1. Today the company said in a statement it is closing its
online magazine, a step it expects will increase profit by about
2 million euros ($2.5 million) in 2013.  “Redline is considering an acquisition of Artnet,” said
Sergey Skaterschikov, who is a board member of Luxembourg-based
Redline Capital Management SA, which owns 9.07 percent of
Artnet’s shares, and the founder of  Skate’s  Art Market Research.
“Artnet requires financing. The company is bleeding. If they
need support, we can offer it.”  Artnet, which operates a widely used database of auction
prices, Internet auctions and analytics reports, has zero bank
debt, Neuendorf said in a phone interview. The stock had gained
54 percent this year through yesterday, when it closed at 6.29
euros, valuing the Berlin-based company at 35 million euros.
Shares of Artnet rose as high as 6.45 euros on the news.  Artprice.com, a French rival, has fallen more than 50
percent in the same period in Paris trading.  “I have always said I am not interested in selling my
shares,” said Neuendorf, who owns more than 26 percent of the
company he founded 20 years ago.  Art, Money  “I am against this because we don’t know what they plan
for the company,” he said. “They don’t know art, they know
money. Artnet likes to focus on art and artists. We are not
focused on money alone and we don’t find this sympathetic.”  Redline’s chairman is Russian billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov, who controls Moscow-based investment company
 Sistema JSFC. (AFKS)  Sistema owns majority shares in OAO Mobile
TeleSystems,  Russia ’s largest mobile-phone operator, and the oil
producer and refiner  OAO Bashneft. (BANE)  Sistema also controls about
49 percent of Russian oil producer OAO Russneft.  “Artnet has a good product,” said Ruediger K. Weng, chief
executive officer of Weng Fine Art AG, of Krefeld,  Germany ,
which owns 4.03 percent of Artnet’s shares. “It’s just a poorly
managed company. We put pressure on them. The CEO resigned. This
company needs professional management.”  Weng, who advises Redline on investing in Artnet, also said
that “a new investor like Redline would totally change the
picture for Artnet. They have all the money they need.”  New Products  Artnet’s revenue slipped 2 percent last year to 13.3
million euros, and its operating loss more than doubled to
70,000 euros. Neuendorf said the company has invested more than
5 million euros in new products in recent years.  Weng Fine Art (WFT)  is an art dealership that serves corporate
buyers in  Europe . It trades without a gallery, instead buying
and selling through auction houses and through private deals on
behalf of clients, according to  its website .  Neuendorf’s son and successor Pabst has worked at Artnet
since 2000. Neuendorf will stay on as a consultant. He said
Pabst had convinced him to close down the magazine on the basis
that it was “too much of a burden.” Other shareholders raised
the same complaint, he said.  “My last day is today,” Walter Robinson, the online
magazine’s editor, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“The magazine has been in existence for 16 years. All of a
sudden it came to a screeching halt today.”  ‘Burning’ Money  “With the magazine burning something like a million or so
a year,” Weng said, closing it “is the only option they had.”  Skaterschikov said Skate’s made offers to take over
Artnet’s media segment two years ago, “but they weren’t
interested.” Both he and Weng spoke in telephone interviews.  Artnet’s next shareholders’ meeting is on July 11.
Neuendorf said he’s confident Weng and Skaterschikov would not
be able to purchase enough shares to stage a hostile takeover.  Robert de Rothschild, an acquaintance and long-time
investor, owns 9 percent, he said. Neuendorf’s acquaintances are
also among the many small shareholders who don’t want to sell,
he said.  Both Weng and Skaterschikov said the shareholders aren’t
interested in a hostile takeover if agreement can be reached.  “We are prepared to support Mr. Pabst, subject to his
vision for the company,” Skaterschikov said. “The decision for
Mr. Neuendorf to step down was long overdue. We welcome it but
are interested to learn more about the economic arrangement for
his advisory contract and the CEO package for his son.”  Artnet’s price database is a major resource for art-market
professionals, including dealers, auction houses and art
lenders.  “Artnet is a really important tool for us to value art,”
said Suzanne Gyorgy, global head of art advisory and finance at
Citi Private Bank. “The Citi has been valuing art for
collateral purposes for over 30 years. We used to go back to
auction catalogs and rely on our memory. And with Artnet, it’s
at our fingertips.”  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on dining.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ; or
Catherine Hickley, in Berlin, at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 