-- Euro Drops as Spain, Italy Rates Rise; S&P 500 Fluctuates
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-27T10:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/asia-stocks-fall-on-europe-concern-copper-gains.html
(Corrects to remove South Korea report from last paragraph
in story published yesterday.)  U.S.  stocks  rose, with benchmark
indexes rebounding from two-week lows, as consumer, energy and
financial shares led gains. The euro reversed an earlier drop
versus the dollar triggered by a surge in yields at auctions in
Italy and  Spain . Corn and coffee led commodities higher.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.5 percent to
close at 1,319.99 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The euro was little
changed at $1.2496 after slumping 0.5 percent. The Spanish two-
year note yield added 37 basis points to 5.22 percent and rates
on two-year Italian debt jumped 34 basis points. Corn surged as
dry weather hurts U.S. crops. Oil rose, while remaining below
$80 a barrel for a fourth day. Natural gas climbed 2.7 percent.  Homebuilder shares helped lead gains in the U.S. after a
report showed  house  prices decreased at the slowest pace since
2010, tempering concern about a drop in the Conference Board’s
 consumer confidence  index to a five-month low. Stocks retreated
earlier as investors watched European headlines before a summit
of leaders this week. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  reiterated
her opposition to a shared debt burden in the region.  “The good news is that housing is not a headwind to the
economy,”  Hank Smith , chief investment officer at Haverford
Trust Co. in Radnor,  Pennsylvania , said in a telephone
interview. His firm manages about $6.5 billion. “Yet we cannot
say it’s a tailwind. Data will be choppy and concern about
Europe is still there.”  Homebuilders Rally  The S&P 500 rebounded after  tumbling  1.6 percent yesterday
amid concern European leaders will fail to make progress on
halting the debt crisis at this week’s summit.  An index of U.S.  homebuilders  surged 3.8 percent today as
PulteGroup Inc. and Toll Brothers Inc. rallied more than 5
percent to pace gains in all 11 companies. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values in 20 cities dropped 1.9 percent in
April from 2011, the smallest decline since November 2010, and
increased 0.7 percent from the prior month.   News Corp. (NWSA)  rallied 8.3 percent to a four-year high after
the media company confirmed it’s considering a split into two
units. Apollo Group Inc., the largest U.S. for-profit college
chain, surged 10 percent after boosting its full-year forecast
for operating earnings. Seagate Technology Plc increased 3.7
percent as the world’s largest maker of computer disk drives was
named to replace Progress Energy Inc. in the S&P 500.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  rose 1.1 percent after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analysts upgraded the bank to buy and put it on its
“Americas conviction list” of highly recommended stocks. The
analysts said the stock’s 13 percent drop since disclosing a
trading loss of at least $2 billion last month was “drastic”
when set against the bank’s total profitability.  Earnings Season  Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, is
scheduled to report second-quarter results on July 9 to start
the earnings season for Dow Jones Industrial Average companies.
Profits at  S&P 500  companies fell 1.1 percent in the April-June
period, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
That would mark the first year-over-year decrease since 2009.  The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note rose three
basis points to 1.63 percent. The note’s rate has increased
after tumbling to a record of 1.4387 percent on June 1, the day
the S&P 500 slid to a five-month low when Labor Department data
showed U.S. employers added the fewest jobs in a year. The
stocks index has rebounded 3.3 percent since then, while still
up less than 1 percent in June after two straight monthly
declines.  ‘In Limbo’  “We’re caught in this limbo,” said Brian Jacobsen, who
helps oversee $204 billion as chief portfolio strategist at
Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin .
“People are waiting to see what comes out of the European Union
summit this week.”  More than two shares fell for each that gained in Europe’s
Stoxx 600.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  of Spain dropped 8.7 percent and Italy’s
 Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  slipped 5.3 percent. Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded 28 Spanish banks yesterday.  Byron Wien  is “still an optimist” and doesn’t anticipate
a severe European recession, the vice chairman of Blackstone
Group LP’s advisory service unit said in a “Bloomberg
Surveillance” radio interview with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene .
“I know that every day the evidence piles up against me, but I
still think the European Union is going to survive, the euro is
going to survive, and at least for this year, all the members
will stay.”  Merkel’s Stance  Germany’s Merkel told lawmakers of her ruling coalition she
“doesn’t see” shared debt happening in the euro area,
according to Steffen Seibert, her chief spokesman.  “The chancellor made it clear that even within Germany
after 60 years there isn’t joint liability, and that she doesn’t
see it in Europe either,” Seibert said in a text message today
after Merkel briefed lawmakers in Berlin behind closed doors.  Lawmakers were told that the matter of preferred creditor
status relating to the European Stability Mechanism will be
discussed at the summit, the official said, without saying who
briefed on the matter. Neither Merkel nor Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  took a position on whether seniority should
be changed, the official said. Germany faces pressure to
surrender preferred status on rescue loans to Spain’s banks.  Italy has approved a decree to help banks boost capital
through the sale of bonds to the government, as Monte dei Paschi
prepares to raise at least 1 billion euros using the securities,
said a government official who asked not to be identified
because the matter isn’t public yet.  Spain sold 3.08 billion euros ($3.85 billion) of bills,
with the three-month note yielding 2.362 percent, compared with
0.846 percent at the previous auction.  Demand for Spain’s three-month securities was 2.6 times the
amount sold, compared with 3.95 times in May, while the bid-to-
cover ratio for the six-month bills was 2.82 compared with 4.3.
Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose 24 basis points to 6.87 percent,
widening the yield spread with the benchmark German bund by 19
basis points to 537 basis points, the most in a week.  ‘Very Focused’  “The market is very focused on the spread so is taking
this negatively,” said  Arnaud Scarpaci , a  fund manager  at
Agilis Gestion SA in Paris. “It’s difficult to appreciate that
yield.”  The yield on Germany’s 10-year bund jumped four basis
points to 1.51 percent after the rate slid 12 basis points
yesterday. The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond rose 17 basis
points to 6.18 percent. The government sold 2.99 billion euros
of zero-coupon 2014 notes at a yield of 4.712 percent, up from
4.037 percent at the previous auction.  Commodities Gain  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities was up 0.9 percent even
as half of the 24 materials tracked by the index declined, with
silver, cotton and zinc losing more than 1.5 percent for the
biggest losses.  Corn extended gains after the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said 56 percent of the U.S. crop was rated good to
excellent, down from 63 percent last week. Corn for delivery
after the harvest jumped to the highest in more than nine
months, with December futures touching $6.2375 a bushel.  Temperatures as much as 10 degrees Fahrenheit above normal
and dry weather over the next three days will increase stress on
Midwest crops that have received less than 25 percent of normal
rain since May 1, John Dee, the president of Global Weather
Monitoring, said in a telephone interview. While scattered
showers are expected beginning June 29, the weather will be
mostly dry in the first week of July, damaging corn plants that
will be pollinating, Dee said.  Cattle futures rose amid concern that hot weather in the
U.S. will limit weight gains for animals before they are sent to
meat-packing plants, reducing beef supply. Natural gas surged
7.3 cents to a five-month high of $2.767 per million British
thermal units as forecasts for hot weather signaled increased
demand for the power-plant fuel.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.5 percent, snapping
a three-day decline. Benchmark gauges in Russia, Turkey and
Poland climbed more than 1 percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
lost 0.2 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index slipped 0.4 percent.
The Shanghai Composite Index declined less than 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  