-- Asia Pulp Assures Customers After ‘Misleading’ Greenpeace Claims
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-06-26T22:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/asia-pulp-assures-customers-after-misleading-greenpeace-claims.html
Asia Pulp & Paper Co. is reassuring
customers that it is uses no illegally logged trees in its paper
mills after Greenpeace International accused the company of
destroying the habitat of the endangered Sumatran tiger.  Asia Pulp, a unit of Indonesia’s  Sinar Mas Group , is going
directly to its customers to counter “misleading or simply
untrue,” claims from the environmental group, according to Aida Greenbury, managing director of sustainability for the company.
In a May report, Greenpeace said the company is clearing natural
rain forests to supply its mills, logging in areas considered
among the last refuges for the Sumatran tiger, which is
protected under international conservation programs.  “In general terms, we understand why customers are
concerned about some of the allegations,” Greenbury said in an
e-mail. “That’s why we have a duty to explain to customers the
real facts in this and other cases.”  Asia Pulp has been the target of environmental groups for
more than a decade. In a 2001 report, Friends of the Earth said
the  Indah Kiat Pulp & Paper Corp. (INKP) , an Asia Pulp unit that
operates pulp and paper mills, got 75 percent of its timber from
clearing rain forest.  More than 60 companies have broken supply contracts or
ruled out buying Asia Pulp products, according to Greenpeace.
Greenbury declined to discuss “confidential customer issues.”  Customer Churn  “In terms of the impact on our business, APP continues to
grow and is now one of the largest pulp and paper companies in
the world,” Greenbury said. “A certain degree of customer
churn is normal in any business, and APP is no exception.”  In May, Greenpeace supporters hung a sign on  Yum! Brands
Inc. (YUM) ’s headquarters building in Louisville,  Kentucky ,  accusing 
Yum of buying paper products from Asia Pulp made with  rain
forest  wood for its trademark KFC chicken buckets.  Independent tests on food boxes purchased at stores in
Indonesia, the U.K. and  China  in the past two years found fibers
from tropical hardwood trees, according to a May 23 Greenpeace
report. More than half the material in some KFC chicken buckets
in China came from such wood, said Rolf Skar, forest campaign
director for Greenpeace.  “Whenever you see significant amounts of mixed tropical
hardwoods, that means that rain forest have been chewed up and
torn apart,” Skar said.  The presence of mixed tropical hardwood fibers “says
nothing about whether the product is sustainable or not,” Asia
Pulp said in a May 23 statement. Rain forest  wood fiber  can come
from degraded, logged-over or burned out forest areas, the
company said.  Legal Harvesting  “The mixed hardwood fibers that we are harvesting are
legal and not of high conservation value,” Greenbury said in a
telephone interview.  The company said it’s in compliance with Indonesian
government laws and regulations and that an independent report
confirmed that no protected tree species were entering the
supply chain. The government cleared Asia Pulp of that charge,
the company said.  Sixty percent of the paper purchased by Yum comes from
sustainable forests, “and we won’t stop working on it until
we’ve reached 100 percent,” the company said in a statement
last month after the Greenpeace report was issued. Yum, which
owns and franchises more than 37,000 restaurants worldwide, had
no further comment on the matter, Yum spokesman Christopher
Fuller said yesterday.  Yum Report  Food packaging should have “the least impact on the
environment as possible,” Yum said in a 2010 report.  “From the moment the accusations were published, we
produced a number of updates for customers,” Greenbury said.
“Regarding Greenpeace, it is understandable that customers
would have questions on their allegations.”  Logging forests in  Indonesia  threatens the Sumatran tiger,
one of six subspecies of tiger. It is classified as critically
endangered with about 400 left in the wild, according to WWF’s
website.  Skar said Greenpeace has used other methods such as
satellite images that show how trees from natural forests end up
in Asia Pulp mills.  While Asia Pulp has challenged Greenpeace’s findings,
Greenbury praised the group and others for highlighting areas
that need improvement. Asia Pulp said last month that beginning
June 1, it would suspend clearing natural forests in areas where
it hold government licenses to produce pulpwood to take
“account of critical issues raised in our dialogue” with non-
governmental organizations.  Asia Pulp units have equity stakes in six companies that
hold pulpwood plantation concession licenses in Indonesia. By
2015, Asia Pulp said it will have the capacity to “be wholly
reliant” on raw materials from plantations.  “It’s a long process,” Greenbury said in an interview,
crediting the contributions of non-government organizations.
“It’s a long, learning experience.  We wouldn’t be where we are
right now if the NGO community didn’t let us know where we can
improve ourselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  