-- McConnell Says Student Loans May Be Added to Highway Bill
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-26T20:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/lawmakers-may-add-student-loan-freeze-to-highway-bill-kyl-says.html
The Senate’s top Republican said
lawmakers are considering combining a transportation measure
with a one-year freeze in student loan interest rates.  “Those two could end up together,” Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, told reporters today.
“Both need to be dealt with this week.”  Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , the Senate’s No. 2 Republican,
said earlier today in an interview that a deal on a combination
measure may come as soon as today, although he and other
lawmakers wouldn’t disclose how the $5.9 billion cost of the
one-year rate freeze would be covered.  Unless Congress acts, student loan interest rates will
double to 6.8 percent on July 1. Current funding for highway
programs expires at the end of June.  Republicans and Democrats want to freeze rates for a year.
The question has been how to cover the cost, and Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said today that a
tentative agreement had been reached on that front.  “There’s a general feeling that we’ve worked out a
compromise on that that’s acceptable,” Reid said without
offering details.  Combined Measure  A deal on a combined student loan and highway measure may
hinge on lawmakers reaching agreement on a multiyear highway
bill. Highway programs have been operating on a series of short-
term extensions, and lawmakers have said they would consider
another extension as a last resort to prevent highway programs
from lapsing.  “Until we get everything done, nothing’s done,” Reid told
reporters today following a closed-door caucus lunch, adding
that “over the last 24 hours, a lot of progress has been
made.”  There are three possible budgetary offsets for a highway
and student loan bill, said a Senate Republican aide, who
requested anonymity to discuss the still-forming agreement.  They are higher fees payable to the  Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation , changes to corporate pension funding
requirements to reduce payments and increase taxable income, and
changes to a government subsidy of student loan interest to
borrowers who are still in school.  Previously Discussed  All of those items have been previously discussed by
lawmakers working on the two measures.  Reid said today the odds were “better than 50-50” that
lawmakers would avoid another short-term highway extension. He
told reporters a deal was needed by tomorrow to give lawmakers
enough time to meet their end-of-the-month deadline.  In the House, Minority Whip  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland
Democrat, told reporters that negotiators were “very close to
an understanding on  student loans ” and may vote June 29 on that
proposal and on a highway measure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  