-- Bancroft, Orrick, WilmerHale, Simpson: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-06-26T10:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/bancroft-orrick-wilmerhale-simson-business-of-law.html
The U.S. Supreme Court struck down
much of Arizona’s first-of-its-kind crackdown on illegal
immigrants, ruling that states must defer to the federal
government on immigration policy, an election-year victory for
President  Barack Obama .  The case bore similarities to the fight over Obama’s
health-care law, with the administration clashing with
Republican-controlled states. As with health care, the argument
pitted Solicitor General Donald Verrilli against ex-Solicitor
General  Paul Clement , of Bancroft Pllc, arguing for the states.
The court is set to rule June 28 on the health-care law.  In the Arizona case, the justices, voting 5-3, invalidated
criminal restrictions that would have barred those in the U.S.
illegally from seeking work or being in Arizona without proper
documentation. The court said a requirement that local police
officers check the  immigration  status of people they suspect are
in the country illegally can take effect, while leaving open the
possibility of later challenges.  Yesterday’s decision may undercut similar laws in other
states and may have repercussions for the November presidential
election as Obama and Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  vie for
Hispanic votes. Supporters of the law said the federal
government isn’t doing enough to crack down on an  estimated  11.5
people in the country illegally.  The ruling is “a clear rebuke to Arizona and its attempt
to create its own immigration law,” said Omar Jadwat, an
immigration attorney with the  American Civil Liberties Union .
The ruling means that “states really have very little room to
operate in this area.”  Arizona Governor Jan Brewer, in a statement, called the
ruling a victory for her state while saying the law was likely
to face new legal challenges.  The case is Arizona v. United States, 11-182, U.S. Supreme
Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Merkin, New York Settle Madoff Lawsuit for $410 Million  New York settled a lawsuit for $410 million with J.  Ezra Merkin  over claims that Merkin funds secretly placed client
money with Bernard L. Madoff.  Dechert LLP partner Andrew Levander, an attorney for
Merkin, said in a statement that Merkin “is pleased to have
achieved a resolution that is fair to his investors.”  “With this settlement, Ezra Merkin has made an enormous
personal commitment to addressing his investors’ losses from
Madoff’s unthinkable fraud,” Levander said.  The agreement provides $405 million to compensate investors
and $5 million for the state, according to a statement by the
office of New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. In the
case, filed in 2009 by his predecessor,  Andrew Cuomo , the state
claimed Merkin steered assets to Madoff and concealed Madoff’s
role.  “Many  New Yorkers  entrusted their investments to Mr.
Merkin, who then steered the money to Madoff while receiving
millions of dollars in management and incentive fees,”
Schneiderman said in the statement. “By holding Mr. Merkin
accountable, this settlement will help bring justice for the
people and institutions that lost millions of dollars.”  The state claimed in its complaint that Merkin betrayed
hundreds of investors, including charities, by recklessly
feeding their funds to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme while falsely
claiming he actively managed their money.  Madoff, who pleaded guilty to operating a fraud that
authorities say swindled investors of about $17 billion, is
serving a 150-year prison sentence.  The case is People of the State of New York v. Merkin,
450879-2009, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Deals  Microsoft Agrees to Acquire Yammer for $1.2 Billion in Cash  Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP advised Yammer Inc., on
its acquisition by Microsoft Corp., which agreed to buy the
corporate social-network operator for $1.2 billion in cash.
Perkins Coie LLP represented Microsoft.  The Orrick team included mergers and acquisitions and
corporate partner  Richard Smith , emerging companies group and
corporate partner Daniel Friedland, tax partners Steve Malvey
and Eric Wall; Nancy Chen, a compensation and benefits partner;
Daniel Yost, an intellectual-property partner; Jay Jurata, an
antitrust partner; and Stephen Venuto, an emerging-companies
group and corporate partner.  “We represented Yammer from day one,” Friedland said in
an interview. The opportunity to be a part of a firm’s life
cycle, he added, “is really what I work for and why I love to
do this.”  Perkins Coie partners were Stewart Landefeld, Andrew Moore,
Dick Rohde, Ken Miller, Lisa McGimpsey, Carl Crow, Val Hughes
and Kurt Linsenmayer.  San Francisco-based Yammer will become part of Microsoft’s
Office division, and the team will continue to report to current
Chief Executive Officer David Sacks, the companies said
yesterday in a statement.  Yammer provides features -- similar to those found on
Facebook Inc. -- to more than 200,000 companies such as Ford
Motor Co. and EBay Inc. The purchase will help Microsoft compete
with corporate-social features like Salesforce.com Inc.’s
Chatter product, as well as startups such as  Jive Software Inc. (JIVE) 
and Asana Inc., run by Facebook’s co-founder Dustin Moskovitz.  Yammer was founded in 2008 by Sacks, the former chief
operating officer at PayPal Inc. It has raised more than $140
million in funding from venture firms, including Charles River
Ventures Inc. and Emergence Capital Partners.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, could add Yammer’s
corporate-social networking tools to its Office and SharePoint
software products for businesses.  Trials/Appeals  Supreme Court to Review Phoebe Putney’s Palmyra Purchase  The U.S.  Supreme Court  said it will decide whether states
can block antitrust scrutiny of hospital mergers such as Phoebe
Putney Health System Inc.’s acquisition of Palmyra Park Hospital
in Georgia.  The justices said yesterday they will hear the Federal
Trade Commission’s appeal of an appellate court ruling that the
proposed purchase of HCA Inc.-owned Palmyra, based in Albany,
Georgia, could be carried out over the agency’s objections.  The case pits U.S. Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr.
against another former Solicitor General, Seth P. Waxman, a
partner at Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP. He is
representing Phoebe Putney Health, according to court filings.
HCA and Palmyra are represented by former general counsel of the
Federal Trade Commission, Kevin James Arquit at Simpson Thacher
& Bartlett LLP, the court docket says.  The Atlanta-based 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said
the Georgia Legislature granted antitrust immunity to the deal,
trumping the FTC’s assertion that the acquisition would result
in too few health-care options for Albany residents.  “We are pleased that the Supreme Court will consider the
Phoebe Putney matter in the coming term,” FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  said in an e-mailed statement. “This case is
important to consumers, who benefit from a competitive health
care marketplace. It also may provide crucial guidance on the
boundaries of the state action doctrine.”  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Phoebe Putney
Health System, 11-1160.  For more, click here.  Kerviel Appeal Should Fail, SocGen Lawyers Tells Judges  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  urged a Paris appeals court to uphold a
2010 conviction holding  Jerome Kerviel  responsible for the
bank’s 4.9 billion-euros ($6.2 billion) trading loss.  Jean Veil , a lawyer for the lender, read excerpts from the
verdict yesterday as he urged the appeals court to reject the
former trader’s bid to clear his name. He praised the
“penetrating analysis of the lower-court judges.”  Kerviel, 35, is asking the appeals court to reverse his
conviction after he was sentenced to three years in prison and
ordered to repay the Paris-based bank. He argues that he didn’t
betray the bank’s trust and that his superiors knew he was
exceeding trading limits. Kerviel also claims the lender unwound
his positions as a way to shift attention from an almost 2
billion-euro loss on U.S. subprime mortgages.  In court yesterday, Veil said the bank wants 4.9 billion
euros as damages for its financial losses. He said  Societe
Generale  will not seek damages for the harm to its reputation.  Another bank lawyer, Francois Martineau, said Philippe
Hoube, a witness offered to support the defense claim that the
lender was trying to shift attention from its mortgage losses,
“was witness to nothing.” Martineau said Hoube presented no
evidence to support the argument, which he called “even more
absurd” than a defense claim that the bank knew what Kerviel
was doing.  Societe Generale has acknowledged that it failed to heed
alerts that may have enabled it to uncover Kerviel’s trades
sooner, Martineau said. The bank didn’t fight a 4 million-euro
fine levied by French banking regulators, he said.  “It is true that all of these alerts existed,” Martineau
said. “They weren’t spotted or their significance wasn’t
appreciated.”  Closing arguments will conclude June 28. A decision is
expected later this year.  News  Top Fitzgerald Deputy Named Acting U.S. Attorney in Chicago  U.S. Attorney Patrick J. Fitzgerald in Chicago, who is
stepping down June 29, will be provisionally succeeded by his
top deputy, Gary S. Shapiro.  “ Gary Shapiro  is a prosecutor’s prosecutor,” Fitzgerald
said yesterday in a  Justice Department  statement. Shapiro served
as first assistant U.S. attorney for 14 years and has worked for
the department in Chicago since 1972.  Fitzgerald’s office won convictions of I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby, an ex-White House aide; former Illinois governors  Rod Blagojevich  and George H. Ryan; and Hollinger International Inc.
Chairman  Conrad Black . The prosecutor announced his resignation
last month after almost 11 years in the job.  Fitzgerald, 51, an appointee of Republican President  George W. Bush , took office in September 2001 as U.S. attorney for the
Northern District of Illinois, which comprises 18 counties and 9
million people. President Barack Obama hasn’t named a successor,
who will need  Senate  confirmation.  Lawyers who have also been Chicago’s top federal prosecutor
include Chairman Dan K. Webb of the law firm Winston & Strawn
LLP; former Illinois Governor James R. Thompson, also a Winston
& Strawn partner; and Scott R. Lassar, a partner at Sidley
Austin LLP. Both law firms are based in Chicago.  Shapiro, 65, has been the office’s top deputy since 1998.
He previously was chief of its criminal division, supervising
investigations into corruption, corporate fraud, organized
crime, international terrorism and terrorism financing, the
Justice Department said.  Shapiro oversaw organized-crime prosecutions in Illinois,
Indiana and Wisconsin from 1984 to 1990, according to the
government. The office has a staff of more than 170 prosecutors
and about 230 support personnel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 