-- Paraguay Bond Pulled as Impeachment Follows Overseas Sale
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y ,   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2012-06-26T19:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/banco-continental-paraguay-scraps-bond-sale-after-impeachment.html
Banco Continental  Paraguay  is
canceling its $200 million bond offering after the South
American country’s president was ousted from office, chief
financial officer Eduardo Cespedes said.  Bondholders will be returned their money from the June 20
sale, Cespedes said in a telephone interview from Asuncion,
Paraguay. The banks managing the sale, Citigroup Inc. and Bank
of America Corp., decided to scrap the sale while Banco
Continental was willing to complete it, he said.  “We would have liked to go forward,” Cespedes said.  While pulling an international bond sale is common before
underwriters finish allocating the securities to investors, it’s
unusual for a deal to be scrapped on the day it was scheduled to
settle. The five-year bonds had sunk more than 7 cents since the
offering to 92.26 cents on the dollar as the June 22 impeachment
and removal of President Fernando Lugo undermined investor
confidence in the country.  “I’ve never seen this happen,” said Marco Aurelio de Sa,
a director at Credit Agricole SA in Miami who’s been working in
 emerging markets  since the 1990s. “I can’t recall any situation
like this.”  Zia Ahmed, a spokesman at Bank of America in New York, and
Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup in New
York, both declined to comment.  First Sale  The bonds offered an 8.875 percent interest rate and were
sold at par in Banco Continental’s first-ever overseas offering.
The yield surged to over 11 percent yesterday as the price
plunged in secondary market trading, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Buyers are off the hook,” said Carlos Legaspy, who
manages about $300 million at Precise Securities in  San Diego .
He said he didn’t purchase the securities. The “losers” in the
transaction are investors who were betting on a drop in the
price of the bonds and Banco Continental “because they couldn’t
raise money in the terms that they wanted to,” he said.  Banco Continental, Paraguay’s second-biggest bank, issued
the bonds two days before lawmakers removed Lugo, a 61-year-old
former Roman Catholic bishop, on the grounds that his land
redistribution policies encouraged property seizures and
fomented violence.  The bonds were scheduled to settle today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The bank will look to return to the  bond
market  within 60 days, Cespedes said.  Ratings Review  Standard & Poor’s put Banco Continental’s BB- rating under
review for downgrade today, a day after making the same move on
the government’s ranking, which is also BB-, or three levels
below investment grade.  The move “reflects the rising credit risks resulting from
the possible political and economic ramifications of the abrupt
change in government,” S&P said in a statement.  Opponents of Lugo, who took office in 2008, blamed him for
mounting violence that culminated on June 15, when a shootout
between landless peasants and police left 17 dead, including six
officers. Vice President Federico Franco, an ally turned critic,
was sworn in as president on June 22 as riot police held back
thousands of Lugo supporters gathered outside Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Benson in  New York  at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net 
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net 
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  