-- Bank of America Sued Over Force-Placed Insurance Costs
-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 2012-06-26T20:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/bank-of-america-sued-by-over-force-placed-insurance-costs.html
Bank of America Corp.  was sued in a
 Florida  federal court by homeowners who allege the company
overcharged them for so-called force-placed insurance.  Force-placed insurance, which mortgage companies can
purchase for homeowners when their policies lapse, is a
“financial windfall” for Bank of America, according to a
complaint filed yesterday in  West Palm Beach .  “A substantial portion of the premiums are refunded to
Bank of America or its affiliates and subsidiaries through
various kickbacks, reinsurance and/or unwarranted commissions,”
according to the homeowners, who seek to proceed on behalf of a
U.S. borrowers who were charged for the insurance by Bank of
America or an affiliate.  In April, New York’s Department of Financial Services,
saying it was seeking a basis for “consistently high profits”
at the expense of homeowners and investors, said it was
investigating whether force-placed insurance rates are
excessive. It said that it was requiring information from
insurers including Balboa Insurance Co., which is also a
defendant in the Florida case.  The  New York  regulator said there are “serious concerns”
that premiums for the insurance have been “artificially
inflated.” The inquiry was also looking into relationships
among the insurers, banks, mortgage servicers and insurance
agents and brokers.  Already Insured  Joseph Gallagher, one of the Florida plaintiffs, was
charged $4,491 annually for his force-placed policy even though
he already had insurance, according to the complaint. The force-
placed policy, which only covered wind and hail damage, was
twice as expensive as Gallagher’s regular, comprehensive
insurance policy, according to the complaint.  The premium payments for the force-placed policy were added
to Gallagher’s monthly mortgage payment, which contributed to
his home going into foreclosure, according to the suit.  The Florida plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages.  Rick Simon , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America, said the company hasn’t been served with the
complaint and doesn’t usually comment on pending litigation.
Paula Symons of Sydney-based  QBE Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE) , which
bought Balboa from Bank of America last year, had no immediate
comment.  The case is Gallagher v. Bank of America, 12-cv-8068l, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (West Palm Beach).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Beasley  in Atlanta at 
 dbeasley4@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  