-- Absa Falls Most in a Decade on Bad Debts: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-06-26T15:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/barclays-absa-profit-shrinks-as-much-as-10-on-bad-loans-1-.html
Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , the South African
bank controlled by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , declined the most in more than
10 years after saying first-half earnings before one-time items
fell as much as 10 percent after bad loans increased.  The stock  retreated  8.3 percent, the biggest drop since
January 2002, to 143.50 rand, at the close in Johannesburg,
wiping 9.3 billion rand ($1.1 billion) off the company’s market
value and making it the worst performer on the 162-member
FTSE/JSE All Share Index today. The shares were the second-most
traded by value on the gauge.  Other lenders in South Africa, including  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  and
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , have reported declining impairments on bad
loans this year. Absa’s credit impairments had been falling
since June 2009 as the economy recovered from the global
financial crisis and a recession. While  interest rates  are at
30-year lows, growth in Africa’s largest economy slowed to an
annualized 2.7 percent in the first quarter from 3.2 percent in
the previous three months.  “There’s been a big increase in unsecured lending so the
last thing clients want to see is higher debt,” Jacques Potgieter, head of trading at Tradition Financial Services, said
in a phone interview in Johannesburg today. “People are getting
scared and taking profit. The market has also been overbought.”  Revenue growth in the first five months was “also
subdued” Absa said in a statement today. “While our new
lending volume is improving, this is only expected to become
evident during the second half of 2012,” the company said.  “Credit impairments have increased due to higher cover
required on our mortgage legal book, as property prices and
distressed customers remain under pressure,” Absa said.  Mortgage ‘Pain’  “I think it could be isolated to Absa as they have the
biggest mortgage book and that is where a lot of pain is being
felt,” said Kokkie Kooyman, head of Sanlam Investment
Management Global in  Cape Town . “South African banks are rated
too highly by the market and pricing in too much good news so a
sudden deterioration then hits the share price hard.”  FirstRand, South Africa’s second-largest banking group,
doesn’t expect overall bad debts to “show an increasing trend”
in the second half of its 2012 financial year, Michael Jordaan,
chief executive officer of the group’s  First National Bank  unit,
said in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg.  Absa’s decline helped drag the  FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index (JBNKS) 
down 2.9 percent, the most in nine months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  