-- Best Buy Founder Richard Schulze Said to Consider Buyout
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-06-27T13:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/best-buy-founder-richard-schulze-said-weighing-buyout.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY)  founder Richard Schulze
is exploring taking the world’s largest electronics retailer
private as he considers options that include selling his stake,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Schulze, who has a 20 percent shareholding in the
Richfield, Minnesota-based company, is working with  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  on his plans, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the talks are private.  The 71-year-old said in May that he would step down as
chairman after an internal probe found he failed to tell the
board about allegations that then-Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dunn  was having an inappropriate relationship with a female
employee. Schulze planned to leave after the company’s annual
meeting on June 21. Instead, he resigned immediately on June 7
and said he’d explore options for his stake.  “We’ve been telling investors it’s a long shot that you
can’t count on,” said  Matt Arnold , an analyst at St. Louis-
based Edward Jones & Co. While going private may speed up a
turnaround, raising the billions of dollars for the transaction
will be difficult, Arnold said. He recommends buying Best Buy
shares based on its ability to improve results over the next
three years as a public company.  A buyout of Best Buy would cost at least $30 a share to
convince long-time investors to sell,  Anthony Chukumba , an
analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in New York, said earlier this
month. That would equate to a total value of about $11 billion,
including net debt.  Net Loss  Bruce Hight, a spokesman for Best Buy, declined to comment
yesterday. David Reno, a spokesman for Schulze, declined to
comment.  The  retailer  posted a net loss of $1.23 billion on revenue
of $50.7 billion for the fiscal year that ended in March, its
first annual loss since 1991, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Same-store sales have declined in seven of the last eight
quarters. To trim costs, the company is shutting 50 big-box
locations in the U.S. this year while accelerating the opening
of smaller stores to sell mobile phones.  Best Buy declined 2 percent to $18.99 at 9:43 a.m. in  New
York . The stock gained 4.6 percent yesterday after the Wall
Street Journal reported that Schulze hired bankers to pursue a
possible buyout, citing people familiar with the matter. The
shares had dropped 17 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  