-- Biggest U.S. Banks Curb Loans as Regional Firms Fill Gap
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-06-26T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/biggest-u-s-banks-curb-loans-as-regional-firms-fill-gap.html
The biggest U.S. banks are extending
less credit amid a faltering economic recovery as regional
lenders step in to fill the gap.  Total loans at the four largest U.S. banks --  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  -- fell 4.9 percent to $3.04 trillion in the first
quarter from the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Lending by the 17 smallest of the 24 firms in the
 KBW Bank Index (BKX)  increased 9.8 percent to $1.27 trillion.  The big banks are trimming assets to satisfy stricter
capital rules and regulatory demands to dispose of risky loans,
while regional lenders, most less than one-tenth the size of
JPMorgan, are picking up customers. That could mean lower
earnings and profitability for the largest firms, said  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in New York.  “They’re deliberately shrinking their size, but that has
earnings implications,” Trone said. The removed loans have
“been identified as high-risk, but actually they’re paying off
at par and they’re high interest-rate loans. People think
they’re just running off impaired loans that aren’t paying, and
that’s not true.”  That regional banks have taken up some of the slack is an
encouraging sign to  David Jones , a former economist at the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and president of Denver-based
consulting firm DMJ Advisors LLC.  “It’s the health of the banking system and the banks’
ability and willingness to extend credit that’s at the heart of
any recovery,” Jones said in an interview. “If anything helps
in getting this recovery going, it’ll be those regional banks.”  Shrinking Share  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. lender by assets, and
Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America  reported the
biggest drops. Total loans at New York-based Citigroup fell 10
percent to $648 billion in the two-year period, while those at
Bank of America declined 7.6 percent to $902.3 billion.  At Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, loans decreased 1.9
percent to $766.5 billion. JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank , was
the only one of the big banks to show an increase, of 1 percent.  The four banks held 41 percent of the $7.41 trillion in
loans reported by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. at the end
of the first quarter compared with 43 percent as of the end of
March 2010, when the total was $7.5 trillion.  Dimon, Bernanke  Considered global systemically important financial
institutions, the four firms are facing a surcharge on top of
 capital requirements  adopted last year by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  that will be phased in by 2019. The need to
hold more capital is leading some banks to reduce loans.  Last June, JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
pressed Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at a public
forum about whether regulators have gone too far reining in the
U.S. banking system. He asked if the central bank had studied
the cumulative effect of capital requirements, mortgage
standards and other rules, and whether those will constrain
credit and slow economic growth.  Fed officials last week cut their estimates for 2012 gross
domestic product growth in the U.S. by half a percentage point,
noting that the rate means demand is too weak to achieve full
employment by 2014. Last month, payrolls climbed less than the
most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, and the
 jobless rate  rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent.  ‘Capital Constraints’  “Big money-center banks had some capital constraints --
they actually started paring their loan portfolios,” said
Daniel Cantara, executive vice president of commercial banking
at Buffalo, New York-based  First Niagara Financial Group Inc. (FNFG) ,
the 21st-largest U.S. lender by assets. “We were able to pick
up a lot of customers.”  Bank of America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, has sold more
than $50 billion in assets to boost capital and simplify the
firm since taking over in 2010. The company has scaled back in
credit-card and home lending, businesses that inflicted more
than $50 billion in losses and impairments since the financial
crisis, as it focuses on the most profitable customers and cuts
assets that regulators deem risky.  The bank’s 8 percent decline in outstanding card loans to
$112.6 billion in 2011 was the biggest among the top 10 U.S.
issuers, according to the Nilson Report, an industry newsletter.
The firm went from being the largest U.S. home lender after the
2008 takeover of Countrywide Financial Corp., with almost one-
quarter of the market, to No. 4 with 4.2 percent as of March 31,
according to trade journal Inside Mortgage Finance.  Moynihan said in a Bloomberg Television interview last year
that every percentage point of additional capital required by
regulators reduces potential bank lending by $18 billion.  Tony
Allen , a Bank of America spokesman, declined to comment.  Citigroup Cuts  Citigroup, led by CEO Vikram Pandit, 55, has sold more than
60 businesses and reduced assets by at least $600 billion since
2008. It posted a 10 percent decline in credit-card lending in
North America and reduced loans in Citi Holdings, a division
Pandit created for unwanted assets including toxic mortgages, by
more than half, according to company filings.  “The decrease in Citigroup’s loans is attributable to the
wind-down of non-core assets in Citi Holdings,” Jon Diat, a
Citigroup spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The biggest banks have been paring home-equity and credit-
card loans since 2010. JPMorgan cut total consumer loans, which
includes credit-card, mortgage and auto lending, by 14 percent
to $430.1 billion since the first quarter of that year. Wells
Fargo’s consumer loans, including mortgage and credit cards,
have fallen 7.8 percent to $420.8 billion in the same period.  De-Risking Strategies  “The shrinking of the commercial real estate portfolio and
the residential mortgage portfolio has been a function of de-
risking strategies,” said Charles Peabody, an analyst at
Portales Partners LLC in New York. “Even in credit cards, you
had de-risking strategies going on over the last two years.”  That has created an opportunity for regional banks, which
have increased credit-card and other consumer loans.  “By no stretch of the imagination were these bad
customers,” First Niagara’s Cantara said. “A few large money-
center national, international banks had a lot of the market,
and a relatively small percentage decrease in their portfolio
holdings translated to a lot of dollars for smaller banks like
us to go out there and add.”  U.S. Bancorp, Cincinnati-based  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  and  BB&T
Corp. (BBT)  in Winston-Salem,  North Carolina  have boosted residential
mortgage loans since the first quarter of 2010, according to
bank filings. U.S. Bancorp, the seventh-largest U.S. lender by
assets, had $38.4 billion in mortgage loans at the end of the
first quarter, 45 percent more than in 2010, while Fifth Third’s
portfolio rose 36 percent to $12.5 billion. BB&T’s residential
mortgage loans jumped 39 percent to $21.5 billion.  Kitchen Cabinets  Moving from a big bank to a smaller one wasn’t difficult
for borrowers such as Patrick Foley, who owns six manufacturing
companies that produce items including kitchen cabinets and
decorative knobs. He said he switched to Minneapolis-based U.S.
Bancorp after Bank of America, his lender for 30 years, didn’t
increase a $4 million line of credit for two of his firms,
Continental Hardware Corp. and Continental Home Hardware, both
based in Portland, Oregon.  “They’re very receptive when you’ve hit the wall,” Foley
said of his new bank’s attitude about credit. “They’re creative
about what your needs are, not their needs.”  ‘Keeping It Personal’  Annah Tran , 34, a dentist who runs her own practice in
Fairfax, Virginia, also left Bank of America last year after
borrowing to expand her practice from two full-time employees to
six. She refinanced and consolidated $605,000 of loans with
Buffalo, New York-based  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)   “It wasn’t difficult to get in touch with Bank of America,
but you never knew who you were going to get,” Tran said in a
phone interview. With M&T, “I’m a small business, they’re a
small business. It was like keeping it in the family and keeping
it personal.”  Anne Pace, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, said the
company doesn’t comment about individual customers.  Wells Fargo, JPMorgan and Citigroup have all bolstered
commercial and corporate lending. Wells Fargo’s $345.7 billion
in commercial loans at the end of the first quarter was 16
percent higher than the first quarter of 2010. Citigroup’s
corporate loans jumped 42 percent to $228 billion in that time.  The biggest lenders are focusing on large transactions
because they provide higher returns for the amount of effort,
said Jim Dunlap, director of regional and commercial banking at
Huntington Bancshares Inc. The Columbus, Ohio-based firm boosted
total loans by 10 percent since the end of the first quarter of
2010 to $40.7 billion this year.  Banking Bifurcation  “We’re finding some larger institutions less focused on
that particular work, because to compete they have do it on
price,” Dunlap said in an interview. “It takes the same amount
of effort if it’s a $20 million loan or a $200 million loan.
That’s why you’re seeing the bifurcation now. They need a much
higher return on effort.”  Corporate clients are now more open to switching banks or
adding a regional lender, said Terry Begley, CEO of corporate
banking at Pittsburgh-based  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)   “Corporate America had a crisis too in 2008 -- it wasn’t
purely a banking crisis, it was an economic crisis, and there
was some fear around the liquidity and balance sheets of some of
the bank partners,” Begley said. “If you were a corporate CFO
or treasurer, there was some concern on that, and I think they
spend more time evaluating their banks right now and the
strength of those relationships.”  Regional Consolidation  Regional banks also increased loans through consolidation.
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  CEO Richard Fairbank, 61, who runs
the sixth-largest U.S. bank by deposits, has spent more than $28
billion on acquisitions since 2005. The McLean, Virginia-based
firm’s total loans have jumped 33 percent since the first
quarter of 2010.  Regional and community banks are expanding total loans
because their customers, including small businesses, are
borrowing, said Dennis Logue, a professor of management at
Dartmouth College’s Tuck School of Business and chairman of
Hanover, New Hampshire-based Ledyard Financial Group Inc., which
had $393.3 million in assets as of March 31.  “The community bankers’ clientele are more in need of
loans right now than the big banks’ clientele,” Logue said.
“They don’t have the big cash stashes that the large
corporations have. The large corporations are either sitting on
their money, or they’re not borrowing.”  Book Value  Investors are valuing regional lenders more than the four
biggest banks. The 17 smallest KBW Bank Index lenders had an
average price-to-tangible-book value of 1.5 at the end of the
first quarter, compared with a 1.2 average for JPMorgan, Bank of
America, Wells Fargo and Citigroup, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Bank of America and Citigroup shares are both trading below
tangible book, a measure of what investors are willing to pay
for a firm’s equity after removing intangible items such as
goodwill and brand names that would have little value if the
company went out of business.  “It’s been clear to the bigger banks that public policy is
not looking favorably upon bigness,” said Lawrence White, an
economics professor at New York University’s Stern School of
Business. “If they’re shrinking, that means they’re going to be
doing less stuff, including making fewer loans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  