-- BMO Doubles U.S. Earnings on Wisconsin Bet
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-06-26T20:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/bmo-doubles-u-s-earnings-on-wisconsin-bet-corporate-canada.html
Bank of Montreal  has spent 28 years
trying to make inroads in the U.S. Midwest. The efforts of
 Canada ’s fourth-largest lender are starting to pay off, thanks
to its C$4.1 billion ($3.98 billion) takeover of Marshall &
Ilsley Corp. in  Wisconsin .  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s  purchase  of M&I, the largest acquisition
in the company’s 195-year history, doubled its U.S. deposits and
branches and gave the Canadian lender more branches in  Chicago 
than Toronto. Chief Executive Officer William Downe, who kicked
off presentations on the bank’s U.S. strategy to investors
today, has said M&I will help the bank reach its target of C$1
billion in annual profit from  consumer banking  and wealth
management south of the border.  “Every bank is making their bet on where they want to
grow, and the U.S. is the bet that Bank of Montreal has made,”
 Robert Sedran , a CIBC World Markets analyst, said in a telephone
interview. “The U.S. is a very important component of their
future growth.”  Bank of Montreal has already doubled its U.S. earnings
since completing the M&I takeover in July, and consumer lending
from its Chicago-based BMO Harris Bank accounted for about 12
percent of the bank’s profit for the first half of its fiscal
year ending Oct. 31. That’s up from 7.5 percent in 2010, before
the Wisconsin takeover.  Bank of Montreal will try to persuade shareholders at an
investors day in Chicago that its bet on the U.S. Midwest will
pay off even as U.S. economic growth slows.  Worst Performer  The bank is the second worst-performing  stock  among
Canada’s six-biggest banks over the past 12 months, sliding 7.8
percent. Toronto-Dominion is the best performer, with a 0.5
percent decline. Bank of Montreal rose 30 cents to close at
C$55.02 in Toronto.  “Building up the U.S. business is key in order to
differentiate themselves from the other Canadian banks,” said
 Ian Nakamoto , director of research at MacDougall, MacDougall &
MacTier Inc., which manages about C$4 billion in Toronto. “When
you’re not No. 1 or No. 2 in Canada, in terms of domestic
banking, you have to grow somewhere.”  Bank of Montreal entered the U.S. in 1984 with its C$718
million takeover of Harris Bank and spent a quarter century
building on its Midwest network with 18  deals  valued at about
C$2.7 billion.  In comparison,  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  entered the U.S.
consumer lending market in 2004 and has spent more than $25
billion building a franchise that spans from  Maine  to  Florida .
Canada’s second-largest lender now has more branches in the U.S.
than in Canada, and posted record profit of $358 million from
the unit in the second quarter.  Growth Strategy  BMO Harris Bank CEO Mark Furlong today identified five U.S.
markets -- downtown Chicago, Indianapolis, Minneapolis,  St.
Louis  and Kansas City, Missouri -- where it aims to add new
branches or make small acquisitions.  The bank will maintain its branches in Phoenix, Arizona and
in Florida, and may close or consolidate branches in Milwaukee
and Madison, Wisconsin, and in suburban Chicago, Furlong said in
an investor presentation. The bank said yesterday it will close
24 U.S. branches, primarily due to an overlap in its network.  The bank said in a slideshow  presentation  that it expects
cost savings of “at least” $400 million from its M&I
integration, up from an earlier target of $300 million. Expenses
are down $180 million on an annualized basis, the bank said.  The U.S. gives Bank of Montreal a chance to distinguish
itself from its peers, say analysts and investors including
Bissett Investment Management’s Juliette John.  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY) , the country’s biggest lender, sold its U.S. consumer
bank, while Bank of Nova Scotia has focused on  Latin America  and
 Asia  for its international growth.  ‘Solid Strategies’  “The banks that do have the solid strategies outside of
Canada are a bit better positioned,” said John, who helps
manage C$13.8 billion including Bank of Montreal shares. “TD
has done really well in developing scale in the U.S., their
markets seem to be growing a little bit faster, and Scotia has
growth opportunities outside of  North America , and they’re
showing some decent results as well.”  Bank of Montreal’s investor day could help increase
awareness of its U.S. operations, Nakamoto said.  “Bank of Montreal just doesn’t seem to resonate with
investors,” he said. “There does seem to be a bit of a void on
their image. People view TD very strongly as a retail bank in
the U.S., but Bank of Montreal doesn’t seem to have that same
cachet or image.”  Cheapest Stock  Bank of Montreal is Canada’s cheapest bank stock, trading
at about 9.1 times per-share earnings. In comparison, Royal Bank
and  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  have a per-share ratio of about 11.5,
and Toronto-Dominion has a ratio of 10.9. Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce is 9.3.  “The Canadian market for banking is likely to slow,
personal loan growth is likely to be slower in Canada and they
are maybe not as strong in commercial as they were in the
past,” John said.  BMO Harris Bank will be increasingly looked at as the
“growth engine” for Bank of Montreal, even though Canadian
banking remains the bank’s dominant business, Sedran said.  Bank of Montreal had 672 bank branches in the U.S. as of
April 30, according to financial statements. Almost 80 percent
of deposits are in  Illinois , where Bank of Montreal ranks second
in deposit share, and Wisconsin, where it ranks first, according
to Sedran.  The outlook for Bank of Montreal’s U.S.  consumer lending 
business hinges on its ability to integrate M&I and expand,
followed by the performance of the Midwest and the outlook of
the  U.S. economy  in general, according to Sedran.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  