-- Boeing Says Conner to Replace Albaugh as Commercial Chief
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-06-26T21:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/boeing-says-conner-will-replace-albaugh-as-commercial-jet-chief.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  said  Jim Albaugh ,
president of its commercial-jet unit, is retiring and being
replaced immediately by Ray Conner, the division’s sales chief.  Conner, 57, joined the planemaker in 1977 as a mechanic on
the 727. A new vice president of sales will be named later, and
Albaugh, 62, will continue to report to Chief Executive Officer
Jim McNerney and help with the transition until he leaves Oct. 1
after 37 years of service, Boeing said today.  “You can’t ask for a better leader to succeed Mr. Albaugh
than who they’ve chosen,” said  Howard Rubel , an analyst with
Jefferies & Co. in  New York . Conner has “touched so many parts
of the organization along the way, he’s been part of the change
and he’s been part of the success, and he’s known what’s worked
and what’s failed because he’s seen all sides.”  The move marks the second senior leadership shift this year
at Chicago-based Boeing. Chief Financial Officer  James Bell , 64,
retired in what Robert Stallard, an RBC Capital Markets analyst
in New York, called part of a “generational hand-over” at the
planemaker. McNerney turns 63 in August.  Albaugh decided to leave after achieving his three stated
goals, said John Dern, a Boeing spokesman. Those were: helping
win a $35 billion U.S. Air Force tanker contract; overseeing the
delayed commercial debuts of the 787 Dreamliner and 747-8 jumbo
jet; and securing a labor accord with Boeing’s biggest union.  Sales Leader  Conner replaced  Marlin Dailey  as sales chief last year,
after AMR Corp. American Airlines ended years of ordering only
Boeing jets to buy planes jets from Airbus SAS.  It was Conner’s second stint in that position, sandwiched
around leading Boeing’s growing supply chain. Conner has also
been in charge of the 777 and 747 programs and worked in sales
in  Asia  and the Americas as well as in Boeing’s materiel unit.  Albaugh took over at the commercial unit in 2009, from the
top spot he held at Boeing’s defense unit. He succeeded Scott Carson at Seattle-based Boeing Commercial Airplanes after five
delays on the Dreamliner. McNerney said then that Albaugh was a
“seasoned executive who doesn’t require a lot of hand
holding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  