-- Brazil Rate Futures Yields Fall to Record on Europe Debt Turmoil
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-06-26T21:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/brazil-rate-futures-yields-fall-to-record-on-europe-debt-turmoil.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts fell to a record low on concern growth in
Latin America’s largest economy will stall as European leaders
struggle to contain sovereign-debt turmoil.  The real declined and futures yields dropped after Spain’s
and Italy’s borrowing costs rose at debt auctions today and
Moody’s Investors Service lowered its ratings on 28 Spanish
banks yesterday. The real briefly pared losses after the central
bank announced it would offer 60,000 currency swap contracts
tomorrow. Analysts covering  Brazil  cut their 2012 expansion
outlook for a seventh consecutive week yesterday.  “Investors remain skeptical about a solution to the
European crisis this week,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief
strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA, said by phone from Sao
Paulo. “With the expectation of less global growth, there’s
also a trend of less growth in Brazil.”  Yields on the futures contract due in January fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.65 percent after
earlier touching a record low 7.61 percent. It has tumbled 126
basis points this quarter. The real slid 0.7 percent to 2.0762
per  U.S. dollar .  Brazil’s central bank will offer as many as 60,000 currency
swap contracts at an auction tomorrow from 11:15 a.m. to 11:30
a.m. local time, according to a statement distributed by the
bank. The auction will roll over as much as $2.93 billion worth
of swaps that expire on July 2, according to data on the bank’s
website.  External Environment  “It’s just a rollover of swaps, which doesn’t have the
same impact as a new operation,” Italo Abucater, the head of
 currency trading  at Icap do Brasil DTVM, said by phone from Sao
Paulo. “The external environment is still one of  risk aversion .
There’s not an expectation of improvement abroad.”  Brazil’s currency has lost 12 percent this quarter, the
worst performance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, as the  European debt crisis  sapped demand for
Brazilian assets and compounded government efforts to weaken the
currency and boost exports.  Policy makers bought $7.2 billion in the  spot market  in
April, the most since purchases of $8.4 billion in March 2011.
They reversed the policy in May to stem the real’s decline by
auctioning swaps as Europe’s debt crisis deepened and  China ,
Brazil’s biggest trading partner, showed signs of a slowdown.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini has lowered
Brazil’s target lending rate by four percentage points since
Aug. 31 to 8.5 percent.  Brazilian outstanding bank lending rose 1.7 percent in May
to 2.1 trillion reais ($1 trillion), the central bank said
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  