-- Brazil Default Rate at 30-Month High Raises Doubt on Economy
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-06-26T17:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/brazil-s-loan-default-rate-rises-to-highest-in-30-months-1-.html
Brazil ’s consumer loan default rate
rose to the highest in 30 months, reinforcing concerns that
households struggling with debt could further dent Brazil’s
credit-driven growth model.  The  consumer default  rate in May rose to 8 percent, from a
revised 7.8 percent in April, the central bank said in a report
distributed today in Brasilia. The default rate on company loans
remained unchanged at 4.1 percent.  “This does not bode well for economic recovery,” John Welch, macro strategist at  CIBC World Markets , the investment-
banking branch of  Canada ’s fifth-largest bank, said by telephone
from  Sao Paulo . “Bringing down interest rates and pushing
credit won’t lead people to borrow more, they’ll just refinance
their loans.”  In just over a month, analysts have shaved more than one
percentage point off their 2012 growth estimate for Brazil,
lowering it to 2.18 percent, according to a central bank survey
released yesterday. Economists predict the second-biggest
emerging market after  China  will slow for a second straight year
even as the government has cut interest rates to a record low,
granted tax breaks on industrial and consumer goods and provided
more subsidized credit. The economy grew 2.7 percent last year
after expanding 7.5 percent in 2010.  Auto Sales  Retail sales in April slowed to 6 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 12.5 percent in March. Auto sales plunged
11 percent in April as lenders restricted new credit amid rising
default rates on  car loans . In May vehicle sales bounced back
11.5 percent following tax breaks.  Lower lending rates helped fuel a credit expansion of 1.7
percent from the previous month, compared to a revised 1.3
percent growth in April.  Outstanding credit  rose 18.3 percent in
May from a year earlier to 2.14 trillion reais ($1.03 trillion),
the central bank said.  Credit Expansion  A Bank of International Settlements report published June
24 warned that credit expansion in Brazil and other  emerging
markets  “far outpaced” economic growth in recent years and
that “high debt levels could be a problem.” Rapidly expanding
credit also “raises questions about the sustainability of bank
performance,” the BIS said in the report published on its
website.  The BIS report painted an incomplete picture of Brazil’s
credit situation, Tulio Maciel, head of the bank’s economic
research department, told reporters in Brasilia today. The
central bank sees default rates falling toward the end of this
year as lower  interest rates , rising wages, and low unemployment
bolster household income, Maciel said. “There’s no risk with
credit growth in Brazil,” he added.  The percentage of overdue loans will fall when a crop of
bad quality car loans granted in 2010 mature, Maciel said.
Stimulus measures granted in May to fuel vehicle sales will not
erode  credit quality  because banks have become more selective
since last year. “There’s been a learning process,” Maciel
said.  The average interest rate charged on consumer loans fell to
38.8 percent from 41.8 percent in May, the central bank said.
The average rate on company loans declined to 25 percent from
26.3 percent. Those rates fell further for June 1-14 to 37.6
percent for personal loans and 23.8 percent for corporate loans,
Maciel said.  Since August, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has
reduced the overnight rate by 400 basis points. Policy makers
will cut the benchmark Selic rate to 8 percent at their July
meeting, according to the central bank survey. Traders are
wagering that policy makers will cut the rate to at least 7.75
percent by August, according to Bloomberg estimates based on
interest rate futures contracts.  Brazil’s consumer  confidence index  fell for the second
straight month in June from a record high in April, according to
the Getulio Vargas Foundation.  The yield on the interest-rate futures contract maturing in
January 2014, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 7.9 percent at 2:44
p.m. local time. The real weakened 0.5 percent to 2.0731 per
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  