-- U.K. Posts Larger-Than-Forecast Deficit as Slump Hits Taxes
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-06-26T08:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/britain-posts-larger-than-forecast-deficit-as-slump-hits-taxes.html
Britain had a larger  budget deficit 
than economists forecast in May as the recession depressed tax
receipts and  government spending  surged.  The shortfall, which excludes government support for banks,
was 17.9 billion pounds ($28 billion) compared with 15.2 billion
pounds a year earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said
in  London  today.  Economists forecast  a deficit of 14.8 billion
pounds, according to the median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Spending jumped 7.9 percent and revenue rose 1.6
percent. Income-tax receipts fell 7.3 percent.  The figures may provide ammunition to the opposition  Labour
Party , which says the government is making the recession worse
by trying to cut the deficit too quickly. With the euro-region
debt crisis intensifying, the data cast doubt on whether the
government can achieve its goal of cutting the deficit to 120
billion pounds in the current fiscal year.  “The deficit is going to be higher purely on the basis
that the economy is going to be weaker,” said  George Buckley ,
chief U.K. economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “It’s not
impossible that we get deficit that is 7.5 billion pounds higher
and that growth is flat for the whole year.”  The pound stayed stronger against the dollar after the
report and was trading at $1.5618 as of 9:40 a.m. in London, up
0.3 percent on the day.  Deficit Pledge  Prime Minister David Cameronand Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  have staked their reputations on all
but eliminating the  budget deficit , currently 8.4 percent of
gross domestic product, by 2017.  In the first two months of the fiscal year, the shortfall
widened to 28.4 billion pounds from 24.5 billion pounds in the
year-earlier period. The figures exclude the 28 billion-pound
transfer of Royal Mail pension fund assets in April. Revenue
rose 2.1 percent and spending climbed 3.7 percent.  The Treasury said in a statement the government is
committed to dealing with the deficit and that it is too early
to draw conclusions about borrowing in the fiscal year as a
whole.  The deficit in the fiscal year that ended in March was
revised up to 127.6 billion pounds from a previously estimated
124.4 billion pounds. Net debt climbed to 1.01 trillion pounds
in May, or 65 percent of GDP.  A cash measure showed the public finances in surplus by 4.4
billion pounds in May. A deficit of 4 billion pounds was
forecast.  Opposition Attack  The Conservatives and their Liberal Democrat coalition
partners made erasing the structural deficit their key policy
objective after borrowing swelled to 11.3 percent of GDP in the
aftermath of the financial crisis and recession.  Labour says the cuts, not the euro-region crisis, are to
blame for pushing the economy back into recession as the
government freezes public-sector wages, axes tens of thousands
of jobs and squeezes billions of pounds from welfare spending.  The return to recession has undermined support for the
government, with Osborne’s personal rating this month slipping
below that of his Labour counterpart  Ed Balls  for the first time
as pessimism over the U.K. economy grew.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net  