-- Business Costs Quadruple on Patent-Owner Claims: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-06-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/business-costs-quadruple-on-patent-owner-claims-bgov-barometer.html
Business costs have risen more than
fourfold since 2005 over royalty demands filed by patent owners
seeking quick profits, a study by Boston University School of
Law researchers shows.  The BGOV Barometer shows companies face $29 billion in
expenses from 5,842 infringement claims filed in 2011 by so-
called non-practicing entities, patent owners using their rights
to collect license fees instead of producing products. That’s up
from 1,401 claims and $6.6 billion in costs in 2005, according
to the study published today.  Companies with $1 billion or less in annual revenue were
named in 59 percent of the claims filed last year. While large
companies end up paying more in settlement and legal costs, the
smaller companies’ expenses eat up a larger share of their
revenue, according to the study by  James Bessen , a lecturer of
law at BU, and  Michael Meurer , an economist and law professor at
the university.  “I was surprised at the magnitude and how much of it is
really hitting small companies,” said Bessen. “It’s having a
bigger effect on innovation than we had thought.”  Bessen and Meurer said the study illustrates systemic
problems in the U.S. patent system. They said recent court
rulings and legislation that scaled back some  patent rights  only
go so far in curbing what they consider a costly nuisance for
businesses.  Hedge Funds  The study reviewed lawsuits or royalty demands filed by
non-practicing entities, sometimes referred to as “patent
trolls.” They include  hedge funds  that buy patents, some
university licensing programs and individual inventors, as well
as operating companies that assert patents in areas in which
they don’t make products.  The study is based on the results of a survey conducted by
 RPX Corp., (RPXC)  a San Francisco-based firm that buys patents for a
syndicate whose members include  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO)  so they can’t be used in litigation against the companies.  In most instances, the study said, the NPEs make demands to
large numbers of companies and settle for smaller amounts rather
than targeting an individual company in hopes of a big payoff.
The targeted companies often aren’t even aware of the patents
before being notified they might be using the invention.  “These are owners that are simply licensing freedom from
suit rather than licensing technology” for use in a product,
Bessen said. “To handle $100 million litigation, you have to
have a rare set of skills and make some big investments.”  Technology Companies  San Francisco-based RPX, which developed a lawsuit
database, submitted questions to companies that it works with.
That limited results to mostly technology companies, which are
sued more than firms in other industries.  The survey asked companies how much they spent in legal
costs and to settle the infringement claims. It didn’t take into
account any delays in production or diversion of resources. It
costs on average $1.75 million for a small or medium-sized
company to cover legal and settlement costs, and $8.79 million
for companies with more than $1 billion in annual revenue,
Bessen said.  The researchers were critical of some companies that say
they help inventors get compensation for work that’s being used
by big firms. At most, about 21 percent of the money goes to the
inventors, Bessen said.  Meurer said more should be done to curb software and
business method patents in particular, and to let more patents
lapse into the public domain if they’re not being used in
products, because much of the NPE litigation involves patents at
the end of their 20-year lifespan.  “The cost of keeping and obtaining patents should be
increased significantly,” Meurer said. “We have too many
patents. It’s creating a pollution problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Susan Decker in
Washington at   sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Bernard Kohn
at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  