-- California Foie Gras Fans Seek to Beat Curb as Ban Begins
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-06-26T04:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/california-foie-gras-fans-seek-to-duck-curb-as-ban-begins.html
Foie-gras lovers from  Los Angeles  to
San Francisco are flocking to restaurants this week to savor the
delicacy before a state ban takes effect July 1. The taste may
not be their last.  Producing or selling the engorged livers of force-fed ducks
and geese will be prohibited under the law. Some of those
responsible for enforcing it, however, have little interest in
pursuing chefs who, say, offer it free, perhaps in conjunction
with pricey pieces of toast.  “This is not a crime that would be investigated by the
LAPD or likely any other municipal police department,” Officer
Karen Rayner, a spokeswoman for the  Los Angeles Police
Department , said in an e-mail.  The law pits  California  chefs and foie gras makers against
animal-rights advocates who see cruelty in fattening the birds
by overfeeding them through a tube to produce the fatty liver.
Suppliers say the process doesn’t hurt the animals, whose
digestive tracts aren’t comparable to humans.  Chefs who defy the ban are subject to a $1,000 citation
under legislation passed in 2004. Implementation was delayed to
give the food industry time to adjust.  “I’m not aware of any plans for us to enforce it,”
Sergeant Michael Andraychak, a  San Francisco  Police Department
spokesman, said in an interview.  Kathleen Brown, deputy director of the San Francisco
Department of Animal Care and Control, which is responsible for
animal welfare, said her agency won’t issue citations to chefs
who give away foie gras as a sample or a bonus to a dish, or who
prepare the meat brought in by customers who buy it outside
California.  ‘Not Citing’  “If it’s given away, we’re not citing under this law,”
Brown said in a telephone interview. “We may get complaints
about that and we may conduct an investigation as to where the
foie gras came from. If we found out it came from outside
California, then we wouldn’t cite.”  Ludo Lefebvre, the French-born chef and owner of LudoBites,
a pop-up, or temporary, restaurant in Los Angeles, said he
planned to continue serving foie gras after July 1, as a free
item on a chef’s menu.  “If I don’t charge for it, it’s not a crime,” Lefebvre
said in a telephone interview. “And so I’m going to do it.”  Animal-rights advocates said they’ll go after cooks who
continue serving the food.  “We’re going to come down like a hammer on any chef or
restaurant that wants to continue serving this very cruel
product,” Bryan Pease, co-founder of the Animal Protection and
Rescue League in  San Diego , said in a telephone interview.
“We’re going to make life very difficult for them.”  Free Side  Serving the liver as a free side to a dish would still be
an illegal sale because patrons understand they will receive
foie gras with their order, Pease said.  “If we find somebody still serving that product, the
gloves are going to come off and we’ll use every legal means
available to shut that place down, including lawsuits, protests
and boycotts,” Pease said. “There’s just no reason to allow
restaurants to do business in California that flout the law and
torture animals for a table treat.”  Laurel Pine, owner of Mirepoix USA, an online foie gras
retailer, said she moved her business to Reno,  Nevada , from
California in October to avoid closing shop and to capitalize on
the shifting market. Reno is close to the California border,
near  Lake Tahoe .  Border Sales  “I am setting up a retail location where my customers can
come and buy foie gras and bring it back to California if they
choose to do so,” Pine said in a telephone interview. “The law
is not against possessing it. It’s against producing it or
selling it in California.”  She said her best-selling product is a foie gras in the
form of individually wrapped slices that have a two-year shelf
life if frozen.  “I think people are loading up their freezer,” Pine said.  After the ban takes effect, customers can also have their
foie gras purchased in Nevada and taken by courier to a
California restaurant for a chef to prepare for them, she said.  “It’s a legal way that, if people want to continue to
enjoy the product, they can,” Pine said.  Marcus Henley, operations manager at Ferndale,  New York- 
based Hudson Valley Foie Gras, which sells $2 million of the
liver to California annually, said it’s been selling out.  “We will be happy to sell foie gras to Nevada or any other
state,” he said in an e-mail. “I have heard about the courier
issue. If California citizens organize that, it will be
wonderful.”  ‘Foie-kage Fee’  Mark Pastore, owner of Incanto, a San Francisco restaurant,
said he’s open to charging a “foie-kage fee,” akin to corkage,
to prepare the meat purchased in another state.  “Any law like this is bound to be full of loopholes,”
Pastore said in a telephone interview. “There’s always going to
be ways around something, which is part of the reason that
passing laws like this is futile.”  Chef Roland Passot, owner of Michelin-rated San Francisco
restaurant La Folie, said he’d cook foie gras brought in by a
customer.  “We know that prohibition never works and it never will,”
Passot said in a telephone interview. “The state has a $16
billion deficit. Here we’re going to create a foie gras police
so we can look for chefs who are serving foie gras? This is
laughable.”  The French-born Passot said his patrons were ordering foie
gras at three times the usual rate. He’s serving a six-course
foie gras dinner every night this week for $175 per person.  Closing Business  At Sonoma Foie Gras, based in Farmington, California, owner
Guillermo Gonzalez said he plans to close his business this
month.  “The effect of the ban is the closing of a successful
family business that for over 25 years has provided the highest
quality duck products with utmost respect to animal husbandry
practices,” Gonzalez said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “For the time being, we are going to reflect and consider
our next steps,” Gonzalez said. “If foie gras falls, it will
set a dangerous precedent for animal agriculture and beyond. It
will show that a powerful minority has the ability to impose its
beliefs on us all.”  The California law had postponed enforcement of the ban for
almost eight years to allow producers to find an alternative to
force-feeding.  Chicago , the first city to outlaw foie gras in
2006, lifted its ban in 2008 at the behest of then-Mayor Richard
Daley.  Chefs this year lobbied the California Legislature to
repeal the ban.  Senator Lois Wolk, a Davis Democrat, said she’d be open to
sponsoring legislation to change the foie gras law.  “I have told the chefs and producers of foie gras that if
a proposal came forward to amend the California law, not repeal
it, but amend it to create an acceptable humane standard for the
production of this agricultural product, I would consider
carrying the legislation next year,” Wolk said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in  New York  at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 