-- California Gasoline Gains for Fifth Day on Exxon Boiler Upset
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-06-26T23:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/california-gasoline-gains-for-fifth-day-on-exxon-boiler-upset.html
California-blend gasoline gained for
a fifth day after a boiler breakdown at  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s
Torrance refinery was said to shut process units and a sulfur
unit at  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s Los Angeles plant was said to lose power.  A feedwater pump failure caused a boiler upset at the
150,000-barrel-a-day Torrance refinery in  Southern California ,
cutting off steam to units, three people familiar with the
situation said earlier today. Exxon, based in Irving,  Texas , was
trying to start the units forced shut, said the people who asked
not to be named because the information isn’t public.  Gesuina Paras, an Exxon spokeswoman in Torrance, said in an
e-mail that a breakdown in one of the units at the refinery
caused the plant to flare gases at about 3:41 a.m. local time.
The incident was expected to have “minimal impact to
production,” she said.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in  Los Angeles  jumped
5 cents to 18.5 cents a gallon above futures traded on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the highest premium for the fuel since May 29.  Phillips 66’s 139,000-barrel-a-day Los Angeles refinery
restored service to a sulfur recovery unit that lost power
earlier today, a person with direct knowledge of the plant’s
operations said. The electrical failure was isolated, only
affecting the sulfur plant, the person said.  San Francisco Carbob strengthened 5.5 cents to trade even
with Los Angeles at 18.5 cents a gallon above futures, its
highest premium since May 31.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles was
unchanged at a premium of 4.38 cents a gallon against Nymex
heating oil futures.  San Francisco  CARB diesel slipped 0.88 cent
to 3.25 cents a gallon above futures.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
 Portland ,  Oregon , widened 1 cent to a 6-cent-a-gallon discount
versus gasoline futures. Low-sulfur diesel in Portland fell 1
cent to 14 cents a gallon over heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  