-- Most Canadian Stocks Decline as Gold Shares Tumble
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-06-26T21:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/canadian-stocks-drop-as-financial-commodity-shares-slump.html
Most Canadian  stocks  retreated as
the fourth decline in five days by raw-material companies amid
concern about the  European debt crisis  overshadowed gains by
financial shares.  Gold companies in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index
 plunged  2.4 percent, extending their loss since June 18 to 8
percent.  SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ)  tumbled 25.9 percent, the most
since 2008.  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  and  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) 
helped lead the industry’s rally, climbing at least 1.9 percent.  In the  S&P/TSX (SPTSX) , 132 companies declined and 108 advanced.
The index advanced 4.03 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to
11,334.42 after losing as much as 0.7 percent earlier. The index
has fallen 1.6 percent in June, heading for a fourth straight
monthly decline.  “The focus continues to be the macroeconomic and that
remains with  Europe ,” Jeffrey Bradacs, whose team at Manulife
Asset Management manages C$1.7 billion, said in a phone
interview. “The issues in Europe continue to weigh on the
markets and that continues to weigh on risk-based names and
commodity-based names.”  Concern over the European debt crisis intensified today as
Spanish and Italian bonds fell and the euro weakened as
borrowing costs increased at debt sales. Canadian stocks fell
yesterday, sending the benchmark index to the lowest level since
May 18, on concern European leaders may fail to calm the debt
crisis during a summit this week. German Chancellor  Angela
Merkel  reiterated her opposition to a shared debt burden in the
region.  Corn Rises  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. , the largest fertilizer
producer, gained 3.1 percent to C$43.53 as corn climbed to the
highest level in more than nine months on speculation that hot,
dry weather during the next two weeks will reduce yields in the
U.S., the world’s largest grower.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest producer, fell 4
percent to C$37.83 as gold declined for the first time in three
sessions.  SouthGobi fell 26 percent to C$4. The company cut output as
prices and customer purchases declined and the company awaits a
regulatory notification on a plan by Aluminum Corp. of China
Ltd. to acquire the Mongolian coal producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in  New York  at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  