-- KPN Voting Rights Held by Capital Research & Management Drop
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2012-06-26T15:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/capital-research-management-holds-fewer-voting-rights-in-kpn.html
Capital Research & Management Co.
said its voting rights in Dutch phone company  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  fell
on the same day that  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , Mexican billionaire
 Carlos Slim ’s wireless carrier, reported an increased stake.  Capital Research & Management, a U.S. investment manager
that advises Capital Group Companies Inc.’s American Funds,
reported its voting rights were 6.79 percent on June 21, down
from 15.11 percent on  Jan. 1 .  America Movil  made a 2.6 billion-
euro ($3.3 billion) offer for as much as 27.7 percent in KPN as
it seeks to expand in  Europe . The offer expires June 27.  “It appears logical that Capital Group funds sold KPN
shares to America Movil,” Jos Versteeg, an Amsterdam-based
analyst at Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers NV, said by telephone.
“Capital Research & Management probably also saw that the stock
won’t have a lot of upside potential in the coming period as
Slim usually pursues investments, even if they may hurt dividend
payments,” said Versteeg, who has a hold recommendation on KPN.  America Movil, based in Mexico City, disclosed a 21 percent
stake in KPN, the former phone monopoly in the Netherlands, on
June 21, up from 8.7 percent previously. Los Angeles-based
Capital Research & Management held 97.15 million  voting rights 
in The Hague-based KPN as of June 21, according to a  filing  on
Dutch financial-markets regulator AFM’s website.  KPN shares rose 3.7 percent to 7.5 euros at the close of
trading in Amsterdam, making it the biggest gainer on the
25-company benchmark AEX Index and valuing the company at 10.7
billion euros.  KPN said June 20 that it ended talks on a combination of
its German business with a competitor, a deal the company had
sought to convince shareholders would provide greater value than
Slim’s offer of 8 euros a share. The Dutch phone company will
start the sale of its Belgian mobile-phone division next month.  “We’ve taken notice of” the filing, Maryse Ducheine, a
KPN spokeswoman, said by telephone today, declining to comment
further. Robin Turner, a spokesman for Capital Group Cos. in
 London , and a representative for America Movil declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martijn van der Starre at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  