-- Chemicals Flash U.S. Economic Slump Warning: Chart of the Day
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-06-26T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/chemicals-flash-u-s-economic-slump-warning-chart-of-the-day.html
Slowing production of chemicals from
caustic soda to polyvinyl chloride is signaling a drop in U.S.
industrial output and greater risk that the economy may slip
back into a recession, American Chemistry Council data show.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the Chemical Activity Barometer
trailing behind the Federal Reserve’s Industrial Production
index by the most since March 2009, when the U.S. was still in
the longest and deepest recession since the Great Depression.
The gauge tracks chemical production and prices, hours worked at
producers, manufacturing output, building permits, and share
prices for companies including  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and DuPont Co.  Falling chemical demand historically precedes drops in
industrial output and broader economic slowdowns by about three
to eight months, according to ACC Chief Economist Kevin Swift,
who created the index. About 96 percent of manufactured goods
are derived in part from materials produced by the $760 billion
U.S. chemical industry.  “We’re early on in the supply chain,” Swift said. “The
outlook for the economy is slowing during the next six to nine
months and will be sub-par.”  The Washington-based group’s barometer has slumped 2.5
percent in three months, falling to a 2012 low of 88 in June
from a one-year high of 90.3 in March. Three-month declines of 3
percent or more have preceded all but one recession since the
beginning of the index’s data in 1947, according to Swift.  Caustic soda is used in pulp, paper and soap. Polyvinyl
chloride is used in plastic pipe, vinyl siding and window
frames. The chemicals gauge also tracks production of chlorine,
soda ash, titanium dioxide, and plastic resins such as
polyethylene and polypropylene. It incorporates industry
inventories, the number of U.S. building permits issued and the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s index of new orders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  