-- China Sees Momentum for Trade Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-26T05:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/china-says-june-trade-improving-in-sign-slowdown-stabilizing-1-.html
China ’s commerce ministry said that
the nation’s trade growth is improving, adding to a rebound in
lending in signaling that a slowdown in the world’s second-
biggest economy may stabilize.  China can achieve a 10 percent gain in exports and imports
this year if the world economy doesn’t worsen further, spokesman
Shen Danyang said at a briefing in Beijing today. Trade growth
had “sound momentum” in June, Shen said.  Global trade confidence is so far weathering  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis, according to a survey of exporters,
importers and traders released today by HSBC Holdings Plc. In
China, an interest-rate cut in June, a jump in new loans in May
and declines in the  yuan  against the dollar highlight government
efforts to aid manufacturers and reverse the economic slide.  “The economy will continue to face strong headwinds from
the softness in both external and domestic demand,” said Andrew Polk, an economist in Beijing for the New York-based Conference
Board, a research organization.  The yuan traded at 6.3650 per dollar as of 12:07 p.m. in
 Shanghai , down about 1 percent this year.  A leading index for  China’s economy  rose in May, the
Conference Board said in a statement today, citing increases in
lending and real-estate measures.  Other data released today showed Chinese spending to build
factories and buy assets overseas slowed in May. The commerce
ministry said nonfinancial outbound direct investment in the
first five months of 2012 rose 40.2 percent to $28.5 billion.
That’s down from the January-April increase of 72.8 percent.  Spending in the U.S. was up 45.9 percent in January-May
from a year earlier, while it rose 23.9 percent for the European
Union and 22.5 percent for  Russia , the ministry said.  In the HSBC survey, some 71 percent of exporters, importers
and traders indicated that they expect trade volumes to be
unchanged or increase in the next six months. The bank cited a
survey of 5,800 enterprises in 20 countries from April 10 to
June 1.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  