-- China Scraps Trial of Local Government Bonds, Studies Risks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-26T08:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/china-scraps-trial-of-local-government-bonds-studies-risks-1-.html
China  has shelved plans to allow
local governments to sell bonds directly following a trial
program last November, a week after increasing scrutiny of
default risks at regional investment companies.  A draft revision to the budget law that would have allowed
the authorities to sell bonds within an approved quota was
removed in the second reading of the bill by the legislature,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported. The central government
will continue to sell bonds on their behalf, it said.  “The central government now is quite concerned about the
debt at the local-government level,” said Ivan Chung, an
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in  Hong Kong . “They worry
that if they give the green light now, probably the local
governments have less incentive to deal with their debt
problems, because they understand they are allowed to
refinance.”  A 1994 ban on regions issuing notes directly led to the
creation of more than 10,000 local-government financing
vehicles, which increased borrowing as part of stimulus spending
designed to cushion the economy during the global financial
crisis. As of the end of 2010 they had debts of 10.7 trillion
yuan ($1.7 trillion), 27 percent of China’s gross domestic
product, according to a June 2011 official audit.  This year, the vehicles have sold 330 billion yuan of
corporate bonds, according to data from Beijing-based China
International Capital Corp., compared to 350 billion  yuan  for
the whole of last year. In 2009, they sold 425 billion yuan, the
data show.  Risk Monitoring  China’s National Development and Reform Commission, the
nation’s economic planning agency, told regional authorities to
set up risk monitoring and forecasting mechanisms for debt
maturing in 2012 and 2013, two people with direct knowledge of
the matter said last week, who asked not to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak to media. The orders
were issued because the risk of defaults is increasing as the
 bond market  expands, they said.  Local governments can still issue bonds under the new
budget law if the central government gives them approval,
Moody’s Chung said, which keeps to door open for a revival of
future issuance. The  finance ministry  will sell 21 billion yuan
of five-year bonds on behalf of local governments on June 29,
according to a statement on the Chinese bond clearing website.
The bonds will be sold on behalf of Qingdao, Guangxi, Hainan,
Chongqing, Shaanxi, Xinjiang and Gansu.  ‘Backtracking’  “The central government is backtracking as it is worried
that it will aggravate the debt problem,” said Rees Kam, a
strategist at SJS Markets Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The banking
system already has a potential problem of local-government debt
turning sour. They don’t want to worsen the situation because,
at the end of the day, the central government needs to pay the
bill.”  China’s local governments have often used land for
collateral for loans and bond sales by their financing vehicles
that in some cases have received top AAA credit ratings. China’s
home values fell in a record 54 of 70 cities tracked by the
government in May, according to data released on June 18 by the
statistics bureau.  “Local-government issuance is not the solution to the
broader problem,” said  Stephen Green , head of Greater China
research at Standard Chartered Plc in Hong Kong. “We need
transparent government budgets and proper supervision of local-
 government spending .”  Trial Program  China started a trial program last November to allow local
governments to sell bonds directly for the first time in an
attempt to start a municipal bond market and increase
transparency. The cities of Shanghai and Shenzhen, as well as
the provinces of Zhejiang and Guangdong, were the first to sell
debt.  The trial bond program enabled cities to cut borrowing
costs. The southern city of Shenzhen sold three-year bonds
priced to yield 3.03 percent in November, compared to the yield
of 3.11 percent on three-year Treasuries on the same date,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This year, no further
cities or provinces have sold bonds directly.  Legislators were worried about the spreading of European
deficit woes during the first reading of the bill in December,
the financial magazine Caixin reported on its website today,
without saying where it got the information.  “The recent  European debt crisis  has had a deep
impression,” Moody’s Chung said. “The central government is
concerned that the local governments will continue to increase
their debt and it could become a problem.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  