-- Christie Locked in Budget Fight With Democrats on Tax Cut
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-06-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/christie-locked-in-budget-fight-with-democrats-on-tax-cut.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
and legislative Democrats got set for a budget showdown with
less than a week before fiscal 2013 begins, as the Republican
said their $31.7 billion plan holds “tax relief hostage.”  The Assembly passed the measure 48-31 in a party-line vote
yesterday that drew no support from Republicans, following
similar action in the Senate. Passage sends the spending plan to
Christie, 49, who has objected to conditions put on tax relief
for residential property owners.  The Democrats’ plan replaces the governor’s proposed 10
percent income-tax cut with a credit for property levies that
would be delayed until midway through the fiscal year, to see if
revenue growth meets Christie’s targets. The spending outline he
proposed in February projected a 7.3 percent revenue gain for
2013, the most since before the last recession.  “We all want property-tax relief, but we will be
responsible and patient in implementing it,” Senator  Paul Sarlo , a Wood-Ridge Democrat who is chairman of the Budget
Committee, said during floor debate on the measure yesterday in
Trenton. New Jersey residents pay an average of $7,759 a year in
property levies, the highest amount of any U.S. state.  Christie chided “Corzine Democrats,” a reference to
former Governor  Jon Corzine , who he defeated in 2009. In the
eight years before Christie took office, he said the state
raised taxes and fees 115 times, or an increase every 25 days.
In a statement released yesterday, he didn’t say whether he
plans to veto the budget or some parts of it.  ‘Corzine Democrats’  “After two years without raising taxes, the only way to
feed the Corzine Democrats’ obsession is to hold tax relief
hostage,” Christie said, moments after the measure won final
passage. “Tax relief for our hardworking families is long
overdue and that is exactly what I will continue fighting for.”  Christie, who faces re-election in 2013, last week called
the Democrats’ budget bill “a loud, resounding no to tax
relief.” In a June 22 town-hall meeting in Readington, he said
that the party’s lawmakers are “going to get one all long, hot
summer until they cut your taxes.”  Assemblyman Declan O’Scanlon, a Little Silver Republican
who serves as his party’s budget officer, said he anticipates
Christie will veto $100 million in “phantom spending cuts”
added by Democrats.  Relief Needed  “The folks on the other side of the aisle just have not
gotten the message from the people of  New Jersey  that they need
tax relief,” he said yesterday in an interview following the
votes. “It’s going to be a good budget once the governor gets
done with it.”  The budget unveiled by Christie in February is the largest
in  five years . His proposed spending increase was the biggest in
the nation, according to the  National Governor’s Association .  State Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff has since said that
revenue through June 2013 may be $700 million less than
projected by Christie, while the Legislature’s chief budget
analyst has said the gap may be twice as much.  The Democrats’ plan spends $62 million less than
Christie’s, Sarlo said. It sets aside $183 million for property-
tax credits until lawmakers are confident the state has enough
revenue to fund the payments, he said.  His colleague on the Budget Committee, Senator Jennifer Beck, a Red Bank Republican, called the lack of a  tax cut  “a
kick in the shins to our citizens” before she voted no.  Revenue Needed  “We’re not rooting for failure,” said Assemblyman Gary Schaer, a Passaic Democrat who is second-in-command of the
budget panel. “We want to see that the revenue is coming in
before we spend it.”  Bills to cut or raise taxes must be introduced separately
from the budget. Assembly Democrats passed a measure that would
boost income levies on those earning more than $1 million a
year, to help pay for the tax credits. Christie has twice vetoed
such increases and has said he’ll do so again.  The governor last year trimmed almost $1 billion in
spending items added to the budget by Democrats in the week
before the start of fiscal 2012.  Under the state constitution, Christie and lawmakers must
put a balanced budget in place by July 1 or the state runs out
of money and the government starts to shut down. Christie now
has the ability to veto the spending plan outright, remove some
provisions through line-item vetoes or to sign it into law.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  