-- Christie Supports N.J. Bill to Increase Solar Requirement
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-26T18:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/christie-may-sign-n-j-bill-to-increase-solar-requirement.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
whose administration has called solar power an economic
“albatross,” is expected to sign legislation that would
increase the amount of solar energy state utilities must buy.  The New Jersey State Assembly approved a bill yesterday
that requires utilities to obtain 2.05 percent of their power
from solar projects in 2014, up from less than half of 1 percent
of the state’s power now. The vote was 68-4, with five
abstentions, approving the same bill that passed in the state
Senate on May 31.  The state became the biggest U.S. solar market by megawatts
installed in the first quarter, surpassing  California , and the
legislation may extend that lead. New Jersey solar plants earn
renewable-energy credits that utilities buy, and surging
installation growth led to an oversupply that threatened to
stall new development, said Representative Upendra Chivukula,
who wrote the bill.  “This will absorb the excess credits, bring up the price
and attract new investment,” Chivukula, the Democrat chairman
of the Assembly’s telecommunications and utilities committee,
said in an interview after it was passed late yesterday. “It’s
about saving the jobs we’ve created in this industry.”  Christie’s Support  Christie, a Republican, voiced support for the legislation
at a June 13 town hall meeting in Galloway, New Jersey. “If
this bill passes, I’ll sign it,” he said. “It’s going to help
the market significantly and help the expansion of the solar
industry in the state.”  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, wouldn’t say
today whether the governor would sign the bill.  Under the state’s current renewable-energy  standard ,
utilities must obtain 20.4 percent of all their power from
renewable sources by mid-2021, with 2,518 gigawatt-hours of that
coming from solar.  The legislation would change the solar requirement to a
percentage from the flat figure, accelerating the amount
utilities must get in the near-term. That will also increase the
number of solar renewable-energy credits they must buy.  Prices for the credits fell to less than $100 a megawatt-
hour this quarter from more than $500 a year ago because the
amount of credits available is more than double what utilities
need to meet the current requirement, according to Flett
Exchange LLC, an environmental broker.  Impossible Financing  “At $100 per megawatt-hour it’s almost impossible to
finance a project,” said Gaurav Naik, a principal at developer
GeoGenix LLC in Old Bridge,  New Jersey . “This should stabilize
the market in a sustainable way.”  The state’s solar requirement will increase to 4.1 percent
by 2028. The penalty for failing to meet the increasing
percentage will be $339 for each megawatt-hour short of the goal
in 2014, declining annually to $239 a megawatt-hour in 2028.  New Jersey developers added 174 megawatts of photovoltaic
panels in the first quarter, surpassing California as the
largest solar state with 34 percent of all U.S. installations,
according to the Solar Energy Industries Association.  New Jersey’s draft 2011 Energy Master Plan referred to an
incentive program for solar energy as a “ financial albatross .”
The phrase was removed in the final version, which cut the
state’s renewable-energy goal to 22.5 percent of all power
sources from 30 percent by 2021.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  