-- CME Group Fights Commodity Traders Over Rule Change
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-26T17:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/cme-group-fights-commodity-traders-in-court-over-rule-change-1-.html
CME Group Inc. (CME)  attorneys told a U.S.
judge that a lawsuit by  Chicago  Board of Trade traders and
brokers seeking to preserve open-outcry price settlement belongs
in a federal court, not a state court.  Twenty-four agricultural traders and brokers filed a state
court lawsuit on June 22 seeking an order blocking the world’s
biggest futures market from changing their traditional method of
price settlement to a blended method incorporating electronic
trading activity. The new procedures went into effect yesterday.  The traders filed their suit in an Illinois state court in
Chicago, seeking an injunction. CME Group attorneys had the case
moved to federal court in Chicago, saying the case involved the
U.S. Commodities Exchange Act provisions and that the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission should be added as a party.  “There’s clear preemption” of state court jurisdiction,
CME Group attorney  Jerrold Salzman  told U.S. District Judge John Darrah at a hearing today.  More than 90 percent of agricultural futures contract
trading is already done electronically, Salzman said, adding
that the traders weren’t entitled to an injunction.  The traders say in their complaint that the new procedures
are reducing the volume of orders they process and threatening
their livelihood.  Complicated Issues  CME Group, parent company of the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, acquired the Chicago Board of Trade in 2007. The new
open-outcry rule changes don’t apply to CME livestock futures
traders.  Darrah said the jurisdictional issues were complicated and
that his decision will take “some time.”  The parties are due back in court on Aug. 14. Darrah said
he may issue a ruling before then.  “Obviously, we want to be heard as soon as possible,”
 George Sang , an attorney for the traders, said after court.  R. David Gary, a spokesman for the CFTC, did not
immediately reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment.  The case is McKerr v. The Board of Trade of the City of
Chicago Inc., 12-cv-5008, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  