-- Cocoa Rises on Ivory Coast Crop Concerns; Sugar, Coffee Advance
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-06-26T19:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/cocoa-rises-on-speculation-ivory-coast-rains-will-cause-disease.html
Cocoa climbed the most in two weeks
on speculation that wet weather will increase the risk of crop
disease in  Ivory Coast , the world’s top producer. Sugar and
coffee also advanced.  Most areas of Ivory Coast will get at least 75 millimeters
(3 inches) of  rain  through July 3, and some northern regions may
have as much as 150 millimeters, according to the U.S. National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.  “The heavy rains are making people nervous about
supplies,” because too much precipitation may lead to poor bean
quality or  black pod , a fungal disease, Sterling Smith, a
commodity analyst at Citigroup Inc.’s institutional client group
in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  On ICE Futures U.S. in  New York , cocoa for September
delivery jumped 2.2 percent to settle at $2,149 a metric ton at
12:17 p.m., the biggest gain for a most-active contract since
June 12.  An outbreak of the leaf-eating canker worm in west Nigeria,
the fourth-biggest producer, is also supporting prices, Smith
said. Ghana is the second-biggest grower, followed by  Indonesia .  Raw-sugar futures for October delivery rose 1.5 percent to
20.23 cents a pound in New York, the biggest gain in a week.  Output in  Brazil ’s Center South, the world’s largest
producing region, tumbled 32 percent in the first half of this
month after rain hindered harvesting, Unica, an industry group,
said today.  Arabica-coffee futures for September delivery jumped 4.4
percent to $1.6575 a pound on ICE. Earlier, the price reached
$1.6635, the highest since May 30. The commodity has dropped 27
percent in 2012. Brazil is the top producer.  “There is concern the rains will affect up to 15 percent
of the coffee quality in parts of  Minas Gerais , Parana,  Sao
Paulo  and the Cerrado region,” Luiz Eduardo de Paula, the
president of H. Commcor, a broker in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview. “This market had been oversold.”  In London futures trading, cocoa, refined sugar and robusta
coffee advanced on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  