-- College Football Approves Four-Team Playoff to Replace BCS
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/college-football-gets-four-team-playoff-to-replace-bcs-system.html
College football’s top division will
implement a playoff system in two seasons to replace the Bowl
Championship Series format.  A four-team, three-game playoff that incorporates the major
bowls and may be worth $500 million annually in television
revenue was approved yesterday in  Washington  by the 12-member
BCS Presidential Oversight Committee. The proposal was put
forward by the commissioners of the 11 conferences at the
sport’s top level -- the Football Bowl Subdivision -- and
University of  Notre Dame  Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick.  The playoff, which has been in demand for years by many
fans, some lawmakers and even President  Barack Obama , will start
with the 2014-15 season. College football’s national champion
since 1998 has been crowned by the BCS, which uses a formula
that incorporates rankings and computer polls to decide the two
schools that play for the title.  “What we’ve done is preserved the regular season and
enhanced it with this four-team playoff,” said Southeastern
Conference Commissioner Mike Slive, whose league has produced
the past six national champions.  Under the playoff format, which was approved under a 12-
year deal, the two national semifinal games would rotate among
six major bowls, a group that probably includes the four current
BCS games: the Fiesta, Orange, Rose and Sugar bowls. The games
would be played on New Year’s Day or New Year’s Eve.  The national championship game would be played on a Monday
night, at least six days after the semifinals, and the neutral
site would be up for bid the same way the  National Football
League  rotates its  Super Bowl  among bidding cities.  Selection Committee  A selection committee will determine the playoff
participants, with weight placed on record, strength of schedule,
head-to-head results and whether a team is a conference champion.  The composition of the selection committee, the name of the
new system and how revenue from the playoffs will be distributed
hasn’t been disclosed.  Atlantic Coast Conference Commissioner John Swofford called
the new format a milestone for the sport.  “It gives four teams rather than two the opportunity to
play for a national championship and I think it’s good for
college football,” Swofford said at the news conference.
“Where we arrived is a consensus built on compromise.”  The BCS has been a source of controversy over the years and
Big Ten Commissioner Jim Delany said the more the system was
tweaked, the less confidence it inspired.  “We understood it was under a lot of criticism,” Delany
told reporters. “So as we moved forward to identify a new model,
we had a couple of really important issues: We wanted this to
continue to support the regular season and we wanted it to be
inside the bowl system. We also think the method for selecting
teams is more rational, has fewer conflicts and will be more
transparent.”  TV Rights  Negotiations on the next BCS television contract are set to
begin later this year. The current deal, under which  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN and ABC pay $155 million annually for the title game
and rights to the four BCS bowls, expires after the 2013-14
season.  The next contract may have a price tag that ranges from
$400 million to $500 million annually, said Bob Boland of  New
York  University’s Tisch School of Sports Management.  “Because we keep hearing that number repeatedly, that’s
probably what’s being asked for,” Boland said in a telephone
interview. “This could be exclusive television viewing.”  Last season’s BCS title game, a rematch between SEC rivals
Louisiana State and the  University of Alabama , drew the lowest
television ratings of the BCS era.  Significant Competition  Former CBS Sports President  Neal Pilson  said the networks
have been asking for a playoff for a long time and said he
expects there will be significant competition for the rights,
though he doubts the rights fee will reach a half-billion
dollars a year.  “What you have here is an important television property
and sponsorships would probably drive the total values up rather
than down, but if you’re talking about a rights fee of $500
million per year, I don’t think that’s the right number,”
Pilson said in a telephone interview.  The new playoff system will probably also be lucrative for
sports books in  Las Vegas .  “Any time you have a championship game, I don’t care if
it’s a Super Bowl, the NCAA final or a college football BCS
championship game, we’ve had terrific action on those games,”
Johnny Avello, director of race and sports operations at the
Wynn Las Vegas, said in a telephone interview. “Now we’re
increasing that to three. I think those two playoff games are
going to be huge.”  Crowning Champion  College football’s top level, formerly Division I-A, has
been searching for a way to help crown its national champion for
the past two decades. The Bowl Coalition was formed in 1992 as
the SEC, Atlantic Coast Conference,  Big East , Big 8, Southwest
Conference and Notre Dame joined with six bowl games.  The system faced controversy because the Big Ten and
Pacific 10 weren’t included, both conference having contractual
ties to the  Rose Bowl . The Bowl Coalition was changed to the
Bowl Alliance in 1995, when it was restructured to three games,
yet the Big Ten and Pac-10 still weren’t a part of the system.  The BCS was formed in 1998 and incorporated the Rose Bowl
into the rotation of games and as part of the system that
matched the No. 1 and No. 2 teams in a bowl to determine the
national champion. The BCS used a formula of rankings and polls
for its standings to decide the two highest-ranked teams.  While the Bowl Championship Series went through its own
changes over the years, it still faced controversy. Voters in
the Associated Press poll declined to be involved in the BCS
formula in 2006, when the Harris Poll was included.  Antitrust Questions  Utah Senator  Orrin Hatch  in 2009 asked Obama for a probe of
the BCS, saying the postseason selections process violated
antitrust law. Obama had said at the time he favored a playoff
series, as undefeated teams such as the University of Utah,
 Boise State University  and  Texas Christian University  recently
weren’t able to qualify to play for the BCS title.  Even with the changes, deserving schools may still miss a
chance to play for the championship.  Delany said there are bound to be those who still want
college football’s top level to adopt a playoff that involves
eight or 16 teams. The Football Championship Subdivision,
formerly Division I-AA, has a 20-team playoff, while there are
24 schools in the Division II postseason and 32 in the Division
III championship.  “There will always be people who want more, but sometimes
less is more,” Delany said. “We thought two worked for a while.
I’m sure this is going to work for at least 12 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  