-- Colombian Currency Falls to Three-Week Low as Europe Saps Demand
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-06-26T18:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/colombian-currency-falls-to-three-week-low-as-europe-saps-demand.html
Colombia ’s currency declined to a
three-week low as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is getting worse
sapped demand for higher-yielding, emerging-market assets.  The peso closed little changed at 1,802.77 per dollar after
touching 1,809.9, the weakest level since June 5. The currency
has fallen 0.8 percent this quarter.  “Investors have been seeking refuge in U.S. Treasuries,”
dropping Latin American currencies including the peso, William Florez, an analyst at  Helm Bank SA (PFBHELMB) ’s brokerage unit in Bogota,
said in a phone interview. “Markets are trading laterally,
waiting for what may come out of the meeting in Europe.”  The peso’s decline against the dollar before the European
Union’s June 28-29 summit pared this year’s rally to 7.5
percent, still the best performance among all of the world’s
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told German lawmakers in Berlin
today that she expects there to be no shared liability for debt
in her lifetime, an official at the meeting said. Moody’s
Investors Service cut the ratings of 28 Spanish banks yesterday,
citing the country’s sovereign debt and rising losses on real
estate loans.  Declines in the price of oil, Colombia’s biggest export,
contributed to today’s drop in the local currency, said Daniel Lozano, an analyst at Serfinco SA, a brokerage, in Bogota.  ‘Key Variable’  “Oil is the key variable that connects us to the global
market,” Lozano said in a phone interview. “It has an
important impact on exports, foreign direct investment and
fiscal numbers.”  Crude oil for August delivery traded below $80 for a fourth
day today in  New York .  Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  scheduled a meeting
today with members of the central bank’s board, according to a
statement on the presidency’s website. The meeting comes before
Banco de la Republica’s policy meeting June 29.  Policy makers will leave the  overnight lending rate 
unchanged at 5.25 percent, according to all 27 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Colombia has been less successful than other countries in
the region at curbing currency gains and should take “more
aggressive” action, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry told
lawmakers June 12. More central bank intervention in  currency
markets  is compatible with low and stable inflation, he said.
The peso has dropped 1.5 percent since his remarks.  Banco de la Republica has said it will buy a minimum of $20
million daily in the  spot market  until at least Nov. 2, while
the government is keeping abroad dividends from state-run oil
company  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  to avoid strengthening the peso.  Central bankers probably won’t announce additional currency
measures at this week’s meeting after recent declines in the
peso, according to Lozano.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 6.98 percent, according to the central bank. The price fell
0.058 centavo to 124.087 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  