-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Declines to a Five-Month Low
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-06-26T20:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-dropped-to-a-five-month-low-in-june.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
dropped in June for a fourth consecutive month as mounting
concern over jobs and incomes dimmed the outlook for spending.  The Conference Board’s sentiment  index  fell to 62, a five-
month low, from a revised 64.4 in May, figures from the New
York-based private research group showed today. Another report
showed  home prices  were stabilizing.  The slide in confidence raises the risk that the slowdown
in hiring revealed by last month’s jobs report will cause
households to retrench, restraining the spending that accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy. The weak labor market is
overshadowing the benefit of the lowest gasoline prices in five
months, one reason why companies like  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are keeping
an eye on attitudes.  “The employment situation continues to weigh on consumer
minds,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva, a U.S. economist at BNP
Paribas in  New York , who correctly forecast the confidence
index. “Usually consumers react to falling gasoline prices by
increasing their spending, but this time around it looks like
they’re a little bit cautious.”  Stocks climbed as optimism about the housing data helped
overcome concern over the drop in confidence and the  European
debt crisis . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent to
1,319.99 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Elsewhere, Britain had a larger budget shortfall than
economists forecast in May as the recession hit taxes and pushed
up welfare spending.  Survey Results  The median forecast of 69 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected the U.S. confidence index would fall to 63.
Estimates ranged from 58 to 66.8. The measure averaged 53.7
during the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009.  An improvement in residential real estate may help limit
the decline in sentiment. Home prices in 20 cities fell at a
slower pace in the 12 months ended in April, showing the
industry that precipitated the last recession is stabilizing,
other data showed. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values
dropped 1.9 percent from a year earlier, the smallest decrease
since November 2010, the group reported in New York.  Home prices adjusted for seasonal variations climbed 0.7
percent in April, matching the prior month’s gain, which was
revised up from a previously reported 0.1 percent increase. It
was the best back-to-back performance since mid-2009.  “Housing has picked up,” said  Ryan Wang , an economist at
HSBC Securities USA Inc. in New York, who correctly forecast the
monthly jump in prices. “Sales have improved and the inventory
of homes for sale has been falling, which has brought a bit more
balance into the market and fed into a bit of stabilization.”  Expectations Dim  The Conference Board’s confidence gauge reflected growing
concern about the short-term outlook. The  gauge of expectations 
for the next six months fell to 72.3, the lowest level since
November, from 77.3 a month earlier. The measure of  present
conditions  climbed to 46.6 from 44.9 in May.  That mimics the results of the latest Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index issued last week, which showed the fewest
Americans in five months said the economy was improving in June.
The Thomson Reuters/University of  Michigan ’s preliminary
sentiment measure fell this month to the lowest level this year.  “We’ve seen  consumer confidence  come off its highs,”  Mark
Fields , president of the Americas for Ford, told reporters today
in Dearborn, Michigan. “We’ll continue to monitor the
marketplace and take decisive action no matter where the economy
goes.” Fields said Ford is having “solid” June sales even as
the economy shows mixed signals.  Falling Sales  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , owner of the Red Lobster,  Olive
Garden  and LongHorn Steakhouse restaurant chains, last week
reported fourth-quarter revenue that trailed analysts’ estimates
because of an unexpected drop in sales at its older
establishments. The company said things took a turn for the
worse last month.  “We saw the consumer get a lot more cautious in May,”
Clarence Otis, chairman and chief executive officer at Darden,
said on a June 22 conference call with analysts. “And that was
not just at Red Lobster, but across the restaurant industry and
really, as we look out at the data that we get, generally across
the overall consumer environment beyond restaurants.”  The share of respondents in the Conference Board’s survey
that expected more jobs to become available in the next six
months declined to 14.1, the lowest this year, from 15.4 the
previous month. The proportion projecting an increase in incomes
dropped to 14.8 percent from 15.7 percent.  Spending Restraint  “If this trend continues, spending may be restrained in
the short term,”  Lynn Franco , director of economic indicators
at the Conference Board, said in a statement.  Buying plans were mixed in June, with the share of
households planning to buy autos unchanged from a month earlier,
while fewer Americans said they intended to purchase major
appliances. More consumers indicated they planned to buy a house
in the next six months as lower  mortgage rates  make properties
more affordable.  Employment growth and wage gains have been cooling.
Payrolls climbed by 69,000 in May, the smallest increase in a
year, Labor Department figures showed June 1. Average hourly
earnings increased 1.7 percent in the 12 months ended in May,
the smallest increase since December 2010.  The  jobless rate  last month rose to 8.2 percent from
April’s 8.1 percent. It has held above 8 percent for 40
consecutive months, the longest stretch of such elevated levels
in the post-World War II era.  To help combat weaker economic growth, Federal Reserve
officials last week said they’ll expand Operation Twist, a
program to replace short-term bonds with longer-term debt, by
$267 billion through the end of 2012.  Fed’s Outlook  Policy makers also cut their expectations for growth in
2012 to a range of 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent, down from an
April prediction of 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent. The forecasts
have been lowered in five of the six economic projections since
January 2011, when most central bankers predicted the economy
would grow 3.5 percent to 4.4 percent in 2012.  One of the bright spots for the consumer has been falling
gasoline prices. The price of a  gallon of gas  has declined 54
cents since reaching a high of $3.94 in April, according to AAA,
the nation’s biggest auto group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  