-- Corn Futures Jump as U.S. Harvest Faces Damage: Chart of the Day
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-06-26T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/corn-futures-jump-as-u-s-harvest-faces-damage-chart-of-the-day.html
The price spread between U.S. corn
futures for July and December deliveries has plunged to a 20-
month low, as traders bet the biggest annual planting in 75
years will be crimped by drought in Iowa and  Illinois .  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks the discount between Chicago
corn for delivery in December, when U.S. supply typically peaks,
and the contract for July, before the harvest. That gap has
narrowed to about 32.75 cents per bushel, or 57 percent less
than the average in the past year and least since October 2010,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The lower panel shows the
historical per-bushel prices of July and December contracts.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  revised its quality
rating on June 25, saying that 56 percent of the U.S. corn crop
is in good to excellent condition, down from 72 percent three
weeks earlier. The nation was projected to provide 40 percent of
the global harvest in 2012-2013, about twice the amount of No. 2
 China , according to the USDA, based on its estimate that the
most acres were sowed in America since 1937.  “If we don’t receive a good widespread soaking rain across
some of the key areas in the Midwest, it’s going to be pretty
dim,”  Wayne Gordon , a New York-based executive director at UBS
AG, said in an interview after visiting the region. He correctly
predicted in April that soybeans have yet to peak.  The narrowing of the contract prices has occurred as
’’abnormally dry’’ or worse conditions affected 71 percent of
the Midwest, the largest U.S. growing region, according to the
University of  Nebraska  at Lincoln. Morgan Stanley said in a
report June 25 that “the market has been slow to reflect the
crop’s poor condition.” The  United Nations  has  said  that a
record U.S. harvest is needed to rebuild global grain stockpiles
drained by deficits in the past two years.  Harvest losses would squeeze profits of companies including
Archer Daniels Midland Co., the world’s largest corn processor
and leading ethanol producer, and  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the
biggest pork processor, whose cost of raising hogs rose 18
percent in fiscal year 2012 because of higher prices for feed
ingredients, the company said in a filing last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  