-- Court Ruling Fuels Fear Among Hispanics in Arizona
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-06-26T17:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/court-ruling-fuels-fear-among-hispanics-in-arizona.html
Erika Ovalle joined several dozen
activists in the Phoenix heat outside the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement office to protest the U.S. Supreme Court
decision they say opens the door to racial profiling in  Arizona .  “People are living in fear,” said Ovalle, 32, a U.S.
citizen who volunteers with Puente Movement, an immigrant-rights
group in a state that has become the epicenter of the nationwide
battle over illegal migration. “It is criminalizing brown
skin.”  As police prepare to begin enforcing the sole provision of
Arizona’s first-of-its-kind immigration law to withstand the
high court’s scrutiny, supporters and opponents agreed on one
thing: The statute will face more legal challenges, especially
if concerns over profiling or prolonged detentions materialize.  The justices in  Washington  struck down three provisions of
the Arizona law that created state-level immigration crimes, in
a ruling that reaffirmed the federal government’s exclusive role
in setting policy. They left intact the most contentious
provision -- known as “show me your papers” -- that requires
local police to check the immigration status of anyone they
suspect is in the country illegally during stops, arrests or
detentions. The justices said the implementation had to respect
constitutional protections.  Constitutional Challenge  The close scrutiny of how the law is enforced will likely
shape how police in Arizona, and in four other states that have
similar provisions in their laws, proceed.  “Officers will have to do it very, very carefully,” said
Steven Schwinn, an associate professor at the John Marshall Law
School in  Chicago . “If they start racially discriminating or
 holding people  longer than they should be, then that kind of
enforcement would be subject to a constitutional challenge.”  The ruling gives President  Barack Obama ’s administration
most of what it sought when it sued to block the Arizona law.
Supporters of the law said the federal government isn’t doing
enough to crack down on what officials have estimated are the
11.5 million people in the country illegally. The decision may
undercut parts of similar laws in the other states and will have
repercussions for the November presidential election as Obama
and Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  vie for Hispanic votes.  Arizona, where officials say the 370-mile border with
 Mexico  is the crossing point for half the nation’s illegal
aliens, became the first state to enact such a law, in 2010.
Since then,  Alabama ,  South Carolina ,  Georgia ,  Utah  and  Indiana 
have passed their own measures aimed at illegal immigration. All
are facing court fights.  Brewer ‘Vindicated’  Arizona Governor Jan Brewer declared that the court ruling
“vindicated” her state’s efforts to fight illegal immigration,
even as she said additional legal challenges were likely.  “The eyes of the world will be upon us,” she said at a
press conference. Earlier this month, Brewer, a Republican,
ordered police agencies to review a training DVD in preparation
for the ruling. Police, she said, “have been trained so that
they can enforce this law efficiently, effectively and in
harmony with the Constitution.”  Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who has become the face
of local immigration enforcement and drawn nationwide scrutiny
for staging what he calls “crime-suppression” sweeps in Latino
communities, said after the ruling that he’ll do nothing
different.  Civil rights groups said they were already building cases.
Anthony Romero, executive director of the  American Civil
Liberties Union , said the group and its allies have amassed an
$8.7 million war chest to fight state immigration enforcement.  ACLU Ready  “If it takes millions of dollars to restore this nation of
immigrants, so be it,” he said at a press conference with other
groups in Washington. The ACLU has joined in several other suits
challenging the laws in Arizona and other states, most of which
were put on hold pending the high court ruling. “We will bring
these lawsuits wherever and whenever they come.”  In the 5-3 ruling, the court said states can help the
federal government enforce its immigration laws yet suggested
they can’t enact their own penalties for immigration-related
violations.  The remaining provision of the Arizona law envisions police
officers performing status checks by contacting U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, the federal agency that maintains a
database of immigration records.  Congress “has encouraged the sharing of information about
possible immigration violations,” Justice  Anthony Kennedy  wrote
for the majority.  Raising Issues  Kennedy suggested that the upheld provision would be
invalid if it caused police to hold people longer than they
otherwise would.  “Detaining individuals solely to verify their immigration
status would raise constitutional concerns,” he wrote in the
opinion, in which he was joined by Chief Justice  John Roberts 
and Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg,  Stephen Breyer  and  Sonia Sotomayor .  Kennedy left the door open for other lawsuits, saying the
ruling “does not foreclose other pre-emption and constitutional
challenges to the law as interpreted and applied after it goes
into effect.”  What is left, if implemented in the narrow way the court
seemed to lay out in its opinion, almost mirrors existing
federal policy, said Adam Cox, a professor at  New York 
University School of law.  ‘Near-Complete Victory’  “This is a near-complete victory for the federal
government, and I don’t think the majority opinion confers
additional authority on the states to implement immigration
laws,” Cox said. He said the U.S. Department of  Homeland
Security  already requires the immigration status of those
arrested to be checked -- and much effort beyond that in
implementing the approved part of the law could lead the court
to strike down the measure in the future.  While the Arizona law had been blocked by a lower court, a
similar provision had been allowed to go forward in Alabama.  Mary Bauer, legal director for the Southern Poverty Law
Center in Montgomery, which challenged Alabama’s law, said she
expects further challenges based on civil-rights violations for
detainees.  Her office has already seen evidence that immigrants are
being detained longer than necessary and that the enforcement is
being done in a racially discriminatory way, she said. The
center has heard from individuals who were detained even after
ICE verified their legal status, Bauer said.  “It was like the sheriffs didn’t want to believe it,” she
said.  Limited Response  In Arizona, although ICE will verify the immigration status
of people stopped by police, it doesn’t have a big enough staff
to respond in person to every call, two senior administration
officials told reporters on a conference call, officials said.  The agency will focus its efforts on people who are
priorities for deportation, such as national security threats,
convicted criminals or recent border crossers, said the
officials, who described the department’s policy on the
condition that they not be named.  That means people stopped by Arizona police and who don’t
fall into the priority categories won’t be deported -- a point
that Arizona’s lawyer,  Paul Clement , made during oral arguments
to the court. Federal immigration officials are needed to
interview, detain and remove illegal immigrants.  Maricopa County’s Arpaio, who learned about the court’s
ruling while waiting to appear on ABC News, said he was
disappointed that the part of the Arizona law that would have
allowed local police to detain illegal immigrants on state law
violations was struck down.  “The question is when we stop someone and don’t have a
charge against them but they are here illegally, what do I do
with that person?” asked Arpaio, whose county is the largest in
Arizona. He said he’s concerned the federal government will let
most illegal immigrants he arrests go free.  “What do I do with the person? Do I dump them on the
streets and say ‘Welcome to the  United States of America ?’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
smerelman@bloomberg. 