-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Unchanged After Housing, Confidence Data
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-06-26T21:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/credit-swaps-in-u-s-unchanged-ahead-of-confidence-homes-data.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk was little changed after reports showed  home prices 
fell at the slowest pace in more than a year and  consumer
confidence  declined ahead of a European Union summit.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, slipped 0.4
basis point to a mid-price of 119.1 basis points at 4:23 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumer confidence dropped for a fourth straight month in
June to 62, down from a revised 64.4 in May, data from the
Conference Board showed. Investors are bracing for a summit of
EU leaders,  Adrian Miller , director of global markets strategy
at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said. The meeting, which
starts in Brussels on June 28, will be the 19th since the debt
crisis broke out in early 2010.  The market is “fairly comfortable from the standpoint of
portfolio insurance going into the EU leaders’ summit,” he
wrote in an e-mail. While the credit derivative indexes will
move on headlines or data, “in general investors are positioned
as needed.”  Moody’s announced downgrades of 28 Spanish banks yesterday,
including  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA (BBVA) , the nation’s largest lenders. The ratings cut follows a
reduction of the sovereign’s credit ranking by three steps on
June 13 to Baa3 from A3. Euro-area leaders are set to debate
additional stimulus measures, including further integration of
the currency bloc through joint debt sales, at the two-day
summit.  Property Values  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
dropped 1.9 percent in April compared with the year-earlier
period, the smallest decline since November 2010. Economists had
forecast a 2.5 percent drop, according to the median of 28
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The swaps gauge typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  