-- Oil Advances With Equities as Brent’s Premium Widens
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-06-26T20:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/crude-fluctuates-on-european-debt-crisis-u-s-home-prices.html
Oil advanced with U.S. equities on a
report that housing prices fell less than expected and
speculation that inventories declined last week.  Brent crude ’s
premium to New York futures widened the most in four months.  Crude reversed losses in late trading as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index gained, led by homebuilders. The S&P/Case-
Shiller  index  of property values in 20 cities fell 1.9 percent
in April from a year earlier, the smallest drop since November
2010. Oil stockpiles may have fallen 1.3 million barrels last
week, the median estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This is an equity-driven market,” said Rich Ilczyszyn,
chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in  Chicago .
“Oil is underpinned by outside market influences. And since the
market has come down so fast, the risk is to the upside.”  Oil for August delivery increased 15 cents, or 0.2 percent,
to settle at $79.36 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices have fallen 23 percent this quarter, the
biggest drop since the final three months of 2008.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  said oil inventories grew 507,000 barrels last week to
385.7 million. The August contract gained 19 cents, or 0.2
percent, to $79.40 a barrel in electronic trading. The contract
was at $79.42 before the report was released at 4:30 p.m.  Brent crude for August settlement rose $2.01, or 2.2
percent, to $93.02 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. Brent’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
widened for the third straight day, rising to $13.66 from
yesterday’s $11.80. The increase of $1.86 was the largest since
Feb. 6.  S&P Rises  The  S&P 500  advanced 0.5 percent, erasing an earlier
decline of 0.3 percent. The drop in the housing  index  was
smaller than the 2.5 percent decline forecast by economists
surveyed by Bloomberg and followed a 2.6 percent decrease in the
year ended March.  “The Case-Shiller index is raising some optimism in the
housing market,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts .  U.S. oil inventories may have dropped 1.3 million barrels
last week, the median estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The Energy Department releases the inventory report
at 10:30 a.m. in  Washington . Inventories were 387.3 million
barrels as of June 15, the highest level since 1990.  Brent’s premium to WTI widened the most since Feb. 6 as the
European benchmark surged on concern that supply from  Iran  will
be disrupted. Iranian Deputy Oil Minister Ahmad Ghalebani said
exports may “gradually” decline by as much as 30 percent after
sanctions start next week amid field maintenance work.  Iran Plans  Iran is planning workovers and maintenance on  oil fields 
just as the European Union sanctions begin, Ghalebani, who is
also head of National Iranian Oil Co., told reporters at an
energy conference in Moscow.  An EU embargo aimed at derailing Iran’s nuclear enrichment
program will come into effect July 1 after talks with the
Persian Gulf state failed to reach a breakthrough.  “As we come closer to the July deadline, the Iran risk is
increasing,” Ilczyszyn said. “We are well stocked in WTI, and
the Middle East risk is better reflected on the Brent
contracts.”  Oil declined earlier on concern the  European debt crisis  is
worsening and as data showed U.S.  consumer confidence  declined
to a five-month low.  European proposals to reshape the crisis-struck euro area
ran into immediate criticism from  Germany  for putting too much
emphasis on debt sharing and too little on controlling national
budgets.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told lawmakers of her ruling
coalition she “doesn’t see” shared debt happening in the euro
area, according to Steffen Seibert, her chief spokesman.  Market ‘Uncertainty’  “There is a lot of uncertainty in the market not just on
the economic side but also on the fundamental side,” said Jacob Correll, a Louisville, Kentucky-based analyst at Summit Energy
Inc., which manages more than $20 billion in companies’ annual
energy spending. “Nothing that’s been done so far in Europe is
really giving the market a lot of confidence.”  The consumer confidence index fell to 62 this month from a
revised 64.4 in the prior month, the Conference Board reported.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted a reading of 63.  Oil demand in the U.S., the world’s biggest user, will
decline for a second year in 2012, according to Energy
Department estimates.  “We are getting a lot of supplies and economic sentiment
is getting worse,” Correll said. “The market is concerned that
things could get worse in Europe.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 423,700
contracts as of 4:34 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 425,191
contracts yesterday, 24 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.42 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  