-- Democrats Cancel Speedway Event at Charlotte Convention
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-06-26T12:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/democrats-may-drop-speedway-event-at-charlotte-convention.html
Democrats canceled a political
convention kick-off event at the  Charlotte  Motor Speedway and
will move the activities to Charlotte’s main business district,
the convention’s host committee announced.  “While we regret having to move CarolinaFest away from our
great partners at the Charlotte Motor Speedway and the City of
Concord, we are thrilled with the opportunity that comes with
hosting this event in Uptown Charlotte,” said Dan Murrey, the
executive director of the Charlotte in 2012 Convention Host
Committee.  The move comes as party planners are grappling with a
fundraising deficit of roughly $27 million, according to two
people familiar with the matter who requested anonymity to
discuss internal party politics. With a party ban on direct
contributions from corporations, the host committee has raised
less than $10 million, well short of its $36.6 million goal,
said one of the people.  Murrey said that logistics, not costs, were behind the
decision to cancel the Speedway event.  “In order to facilitate public caucus meetings -- and to
maximize accessibility, transportation, and proximity of all
guests -- we have decided that moving CarolinaFest 2012 to
Uptown Charlotte is the best way to achieve that goal,” Murrey
said in a statement that the host committee released this
morning, after Bloomberg reported last night that it may call
off the Speedway festival.  Shortened Convention  In January, Steve Kerrigan, chief executive officer of the
convention committee, said that Democrats were shortening their
convention from four days to three “to make room for a day to
organize and celebrate the Carolinas,  Virginia  and the South and
kick off the convention at Charlotte Motor Speedway on Labor
Day,” Sept. 3.  Kerrigan also announced that Obama would accept his party’s
nomination at the almost 74,000-seat Bank of America Stadium,
home of the Carolina Panthers professional football team. The
outdoor finale would echo Obama’s convention speech at Invesco
Field in Denver four years ago.  While the Democrats will receive a $50 million grant from
the Department of  Homeland Security  to defray police costs for
the Sept. 4-6 convention, security for the Speedway festival may
not have been eligible because the event isn’t part of the
official convention proceedings.  Republicans will also receive a $50 million grant for their
four-day convention in Tampa, Florida, August 27-30.  Public Funding  Last week, the  U.S. Senate  voted 95-4 for a measure that
would end public funding for both parties’ national nominating
conventions, adopting an amendment from Oklahoma Republican  Tom Coburn .  Coburn has argued that it’s hypocritical for lawmakers to
spend public money on their party conventions after criticizing
the  General Services Administration  for spending $823,000 on a
2010 conference near Las Vegas.  The nominating conventions are funded through a combination
of public and private money. Congress has appropriated $100
million for security at the conventions, with an additional $36
million going to the two parties for other convention expenses.  Republicans have not placed any restrictions on where they
raise money and have secured corporate contributions from such
companies as  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  to
meet their $55 million target.  Corporate Contributions  Four years ago, corporate entities accounted for more than
$33 million of the amount Democrats raised for the Denver
convention, according to campaign finance reports. While
Democrats have placed restrictions on how the Charlotte host
committee, headed by Mayor Anthony Foxx and  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) 
CEO James E. Rogers, can raise money, with a ban on direct 
corporate donations and a $100,000 limit on individual 
contributions, corporations are allowed to give unlimited 
in-kind contributions, such as telephone and technology services 
or gift cards.  At the same time, Democrats in Charlotte have registered a
second committee, New American City Inc., with the  Federal
Election Commission  that does accept corporate contributions.  In April, representatives of the major U.S. unions,
including the AFL-CIO, the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters and the  United Auto Workers , were given a tour of the
convention sites in Charlotte as Democratic officials prepared
to ask them to help cover their funding shortfall.  Labor organizations have been reluctant to contribute to
the convention because Charlotte lacks unionized hotels and is
in a state where compulsory union membership or the payment of
dues is prohibited as an employment condition.  North Carolina  is one of about a dozen states that
Democratic and Republican strategists say are likely to
determine the outcome of the presidential election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  