-- Dental Abuse of U.S. Poor Dodges Ejection from Medicaid
-- B y   S y d n e y   P .   F r e e d b e r g
-- 2012-06-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/dental-abuse-of-u-s-poor-dodges-ejection-from-medicaid.html
The company behind a chain of dental
clinics that mistreated pediatric patients was caught breaking
health-care rules so often that U.S. regulators threatened to
expel it from Medicaid in March, according to newly released
documents and interviews with federal officials.  The authorities backed off after the company, Church Street
Health Management LLC, said eliminating its government funding
might cause clinics to close and disrupt care to thousands of
poor children. Nashville-based Church Street manages 63 dental
centers under the Small Smiles, Wild Smiles and other “Smiles”
brands in 21 states.  Now the troubled, closely held firm has emerged with a new
name and new owners from a bankruptcy reorganization prompted by
disputes with regulators. It still has to resolve an audit
report from April that found children who visited a  Maryland 
Small Smiles clinic allegedly were restrained improperly during
dental treatments and subjected to medically unnecessary root
canals on baby teeth, according to government officials familiar
with the confidential review.  The Church Street case shows how federal efforts to protect
poor children and crack down on fraud can be ineffective.
 Spending on Medicaid , the federal-state health program for the
poor and disabled, is projected to more than double to $622
billion a year over the next decade. Some members of Congress
and advocates of health care for the poor say that may make it
even more difficult to rein in abuse.  Private Equity  “Individuals or entities that repeatedly fail to provide
quality care should not be allowed to participate in Medicaid or
other programs simply because they represent access points for
services,” said James Crall, a professor of public health and
community dentistry at the  University of California ,  Los
Angeles . “Sometimes, some care is not better than no care.”  Church Street is one of at least 25 dental management-
services companies that have been bought or backed by private-
equity firms in the past decade. At least three of them
including Church Street have been probed by U.S. Senate
investigators and state authorities over allegations they
overbilled Medicaid for abusive practices. Medicaid spending on
dentistry rose 63 percent to $7.4 billion between 2007 and 2010.  In the past 2 1/2 years, the  Department of Health  and Human
Services’ Office of Inspector General has imposed sanctions on
Church Street after “repeated and flagrant” violations of a
2010 compliance agreement not to charge taxpayers for
substandard or excessive care, the newly released documents
show.  ‘New Vision’  The accord grew out of a federal probe going all the way
back to 2007. U.S. officials say they declined to kick Church
Street out because some clinics and dentists provided poor kids
access to good care and because the company promised to make
improvements.  Church Street, renamed CSHM LLC, has a “ new vision ” and
is committed to “improving the quality of care,” the new
company’s chief executive officer,  David Wilson , said Sunday in
an interview. He declined to discuss “events that happened on
the watch of the prior company.” The reorganized firm is
“very, very focused” on ensuring that “we don’t see a
situation like what happened in the past.”  “It’s a culture change -- that’s what this company
needs,” said Wilson, who said he has previously done “several
rehabs” of troubled health-care companies. “The culture going
forward is about the patient and patient outcomes. Period.”  Garrison Investment Group, a New York-based firm
specializing in distressed debt, which acquired the firm, didn’t
respond to e-mails or phone calls seeking comment.  Bankruptcy Filing  Church Street filed for  bankruptcy protection  Feb. 20,
citing the cost of defending itself against investigations and
lawsuits. Debt included $17 million due the  Justice Department 
and states under its 2010 settlement.  Last year, dental clinics affiliated with Church Street had
more than 1 million patient visits. The company reported $161
million in revenue, more than 90 percent of it from Medicaid and
the State Children’s Health Insurance Program, known as SCHIP.  Shortly after the bankruptcy filing in February, Martin
McGahan, Church Street’s chief restructuring officer, called the
company “a pioneer” in supporting dental centers that fill a
void for low-income children, who suffer more dental decay than
those in higher income brackets.  “The company has developed a successful business model
that enables the dental centers to focus on providing high-
quality dental care to Medicaid and SCHIP children, without
having to worry about administrative and other factors that
ordinarily deter dentists from treating these children,”
McGahan said in an affidavit.  Business Model  That business model has come under scrutiny by two U.S.
senators and authorities and courts in at least six states over
allegations that some dental management firms charge Medicaid
for unnecessary procedures and get around laws that say only
licensed dentists can practice dentistry.  In September 2006, the company -- then known as Forba
Holdings -- was acquired by a group of investors including the
private equity firms Arcapita Inc.,  Carlyle Group (CG)  and  American
Capital  at a valuation of $435 million. They are “no longer
owners,” said Don Meyer, a CSHM spokesman.  Church Street said it became aware in 2007 that the Justice
Department had opened a nationwide probe into Small Smiles
clinics. An ABC affiliate in  Washington , followed by other media
outlets, reported that some children visiting the clinics were
subjected to unnecessary procedures, including root canals on
baby teeth (known as pulpotomies), and were restrained using
devices called “papoose boards.” The company disputed the
allegations at the time.  Systemic Problems  In 2009, Church Street sued its previous owners, a Colorado
family including several dentists, in U.S. court. The firm, then
also known as “new” Forba, accused the sellers of failing to
disclose systemic problems, including a “culture within the
Small Smiles Centers that emphasized production over quality
care, in clear contravention of the applicable laws and accepted
standards of dental care.”  The  private equity  group’s purchase price -- 10 times
pretax income -- induced the sellers to exert “intense”
pressure on clinic operators to increase volume by treating more
Medicaid and SCHIP kids, inflating revenue, Church Street
alleged in the lawsuit. After moving to dismiss the complaint
arguing that the buyers knew “every detail,” the previous
owners agreed to pay $7 million to resolve the case, according
to an audit filed in the bankruptcy proceeding.  Church Street settled with the Justice Department in
January 2010. Without acknowledging wrongdoing, the company
agreed to pay $24 million plus interest to the Justice
Department and 22 states and the  District of Columbia . The
settlement covered September 2006 to January 2010, a period when
the management company was under private-equity ownership.  Malpractice Suits  At the time, Assistant U.S. Attorney General  Tony West  said
the settlement sent a clear message to those who sought to put
“corporate profits ahead of patient safety.” Church Street
said it settled to put the investigations behind it. The deal
triggered a round of malpractice lawsuits from parents claiming
their children were abused.  As part of the accord, the company signed a five-year
corporate integrity agreement with the HHS Office of Inspector
General. It struck a separate deal with the Medicaid inspector
general of  New York  State. Church Street promised to hire
external reviewers to monitor care and reimbursement claims and
to develop policies ensuring good care.  On May 5, 2010, Church Street’s compliance officer
certified that new policies had “been developed, are being
implemented and have been distributed.”  ‘False Statements’  That wasn’t true, according to Gregory Demske, chief
counsel to the HHS inspector general. In a letter to the company
dated May 13, 2011, Demske detailed “false statements” about
patient care policies allegedly made by the compliance officer
and by Church Street’s chief dentist.  Citing alleged false statements and four other alleged
“breaches” of the corporate integrity agreement, the inspector
general’s office levied $230,000 in fines, Demske wrote to then-
chief compliance officer Lorri Steiner. The government could
have sought more than 10 times that amount but demanded less
because its goal was to promote compliance, Demske said in an
interview. The “stipulated penalty” was still the largest
imposed by the office, he said.  Church Street “invested significant resources in its
compliance program,” said McGahan, the restructuring officer,
in his affidavit to the  bankruptcy court  this year. Church
Street acknowledged deficiencies, paid the fine and agreed to
make improvements.  ‘Alarming Findings’  That wasn’t the end of abusive practices, according to a
10-page letter to Church Street’s Steiner from Demske, the
inspector general’s counsel, obtained under the U.S. Freedom of
Information Act. On Sept. 22, 2011, Church Street’s independent
monitor issued an audit report with what the company
acknowledged were “alarming findings” at a  Small Smiles  clinic
in Manassas,  Virginia , the letter said.  Details of the findings were redacted from the copy
obtained by Bloomberg. Two lawyers familiar with the uncensored
letter said the clinic allegedly billed for services that
weren’t rendered, inappropriately restrained children during
dental treatments, failed to provide enough anesthesia for
proper pain control and performed unnecessary procedures or too
many procedures during a single visit. The lawyers asked not to
be identified because they weren’t authorized to discuss the
contents.  A review of 244 root canal procedures performed at the
Manassas center found that 104, or more than 40 percent, were
medically unnecessary, according to the lawyers familiar with
the matter.  HHS Threat  Church Street vowed improvements. In March, 17 days after
Church Street’s bankruptcy filing, the HHS inspector general’s
office  issued  a “notice of material breach and intent to
exclude” Church Street from participating in federal health-
care programs.  “Given the severity of quality-of-care concerns identified
by the monitor at Manassas center, the OIG finds CSHM’s conduct
to be a flagrant violation” of the corporate integrity
agreement, Demske wrote to the company on March 8.  According to Demske, Church Street executives told the
inspector general’s office that if the government carried out
the threat, some of their affiliated clinics could shut down
quickly, and care would be disrupted.  Patient Access  “Any time you’re thinking about an exclusion,” Demske
said in an interview, “the foremost question in your mind is
what is in the best interest of the federal program and the
beneficiaries?” Although inspectors “found a lot of issues
about care that do not meet pediatric standards” and put
“patients at risk,” he said that at many Small Smiles clinics,
“care has improved and dentists are doing a pretty good job.”  The company was given 30 days to “cure” the breaches, and
Demske’s staff negotiated a deal in which Church Street agreed
to transfer the Manassas center to “an unrelated third party.”
The company agreed to more site reviews.  Five weeks later, federal monitors issued a site report on
Church Street’s Oxon Hill dental center in Maryland that also
turned up “alarming findings,” according to a  letter  Demske
wrote to the company on May 15. That letter didn’t provide
details, but two officials familiar with the report said it
found allegedly improper use of restraints, overuse of root
canals and tooth extractions and inadequate monitoring of
patients during treatments requiring anesthesia.  New York  In New York, Church Street left the state, and its
affiliated clinics in Syracuse and Rochester were closed after
tough anti-fraud efforts, including a review of claims before
they were paid, made it difficult for the company to operate,
according to Wanda Fischer, a spokeswoman for the New York
Office of Medicaid Inspector General. Church Street paid New
York the total amount due under its settlement agreement, $2.3
million, she said.  Charles Miller , a spokesman for the Justice Department,
said Church Street still owes the federal government $10.8
million. The U.S. agreed to waive expedited payments. The next
payment, $369,000, is due June 30.  Wilson, the new CEO, said he met with U.S. inspectors last
week and “their objectives and the new company’s management
objective are aligned.” He said site visits to two clinics in
 South Carolina  went “very well.”  If federal inspectors discover the reorganized company
isn’t doing what it promised, it could still be kicked out of
Medicaid, Demske said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sydney P. Freedberg in Miami at 
 sfreedberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  