-- LDK Solar Falls After Loss on Polysilicon Production Cost
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-06-26T20:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/ldk-solar-falls-after-loss-on-polysilicon-production-cost.html
LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-
largest maker of solar wafers, fell after high polysilicon
production costs and falling prices contributed to a first-
quarter loss that exceeded expectations.  LDK Solar’s American depositary receipts, each worth one
ordinary share, fell 5.9 percent to $1.90 at the close in New
York, the most since June 22.  The company reported a net loss of $185.2 million, or $1.46
an ADR, compared with net income of $135.4 million, or 95 cents,
a year earlier, Xinyu, China-based based LDK said today in a
statement. Analysts had expected a loss of $1.14 an ADR, the
average of three estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Almost half of that loss came from an inventory writedown
and “a provision for firm purchase commitment” of $91.1
million in the quarter, the “result of the relatively high
production cost for polysilicon” and falling prices for solar
panels, wafers and polysilicon, according to the statement.  LDK said it can make polysilicon, the main raw ingredient
in solar cells, for about $41 a kilogram. The current spot  price 
is $22.63, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s one of the highest costs in the industry, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance estimated in an May research note. Hemlock
Semiconductor Corp., the largest U.S. provider, had variable
production costs of about $25 a kilogram and GCL Poly Energy
Holdings Ltd.,  China ’s biggest polysilicon company, had costs of
less than $20.  “Industrywide overcapacity continued and drove price
declines across the entire solar supply chain, which
significantly reduced our revenue and negatively impacted our
margins,” Peng Xiaofeng, LDK Solar’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  LDK put aside $5.7 million in the quarter as a provision
for the tariff announced May 17 by the U.S. Department of
Commerce on imported Chinese solar cell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  