-- Draghi May Enter Twilight Zone Where Fed Fears to Tread
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-06-27T11:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/draghi-may-enter-twilight-zone-where-bernanke-fears-to-tread.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  is contemplating taking interest rates into a
twilight zone shunned by the  Federal Reserve .  While cutting ECB rates may boost confidence, stimulate
lending and foster growth, it could also involve reducing the
bank’s deposit rate to zero or even lower. Once an obstacle for
policy makers because it risks hurting the money markets they’re
trying to revive, cutting the deposit rate from 0.25 percent is
no longer a taboo, two euro-area central bank officials said on
June 15.  “The European recession is worsening, the ECB has to do
more,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at  Barclays
Capital  in  London , who forecasts rates will be cut at the ECB’s
next policy meeting on July 5. “A negative deposit rate is
something they need to consider but taking it to zero as a first
step is more likely.”  Should Draghi elect to cut the deposit rate to zero or
lower, he’ll be entering territory few policy makers have dared
to venture. Sweden’s Riksbank in July 2009 became the world’s
first central bank to charge financial institutions for the
money they deposited with it overnight. The Fed rejected cutting
its deposit rate from 0.25 percent last year. With  Europe ’s debt
crisis damping inflation pressures and curbing growth, the ECB
may feel the benefits outweigh the negatives.  ‘Psychological Effect’  “A rate cut could have an important psychological effect
in the current environment,” said Christoph Kind, head of  asset
allocation  at Frankfurt Trust, which manages about $20 billion.
“Negative interest rates aren’t an irrational concept. I’m not
sure, though, whether in the case of the ECB it will have the
desired effect.”  The ECB uses three interest rates to steer borrowing costs
in financial markets. The  main refinancing rate  determines how
much banks pay for ECB loans, while the deposit and marginal
rates provide a floor and ceiling for the interest banks charge
each other overnight.  If the deposit rate was cut to zero or lower, it would
discourage banks from parking excess liquidity with the ECB
overnight, potentially prompting them to lend the cash instead.
Almost 800 billion euros ($1 trillion) is being deposited with
the ECB each day.  On the other hand, a deposit rate cut could hurt banks’
profitability by lowering money-market rates, potentially
hampering credit supply to companies and households and reducing
banks’ incentive to lend to other financial institutions.  Money Markets  “It won’t help the prospect of a functioning money market
because banks won’t be compensated for the risk they’re
taking,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. It would
make more sense to lower the benchmark rate, thus reducing the
interest banks pay on ECB loans, and keep the deposit rate where
it is, Green said.  The ECB has lent banks more than 1 trillion euros in three-
year loans, with the interest determined by the average of the
benchmark rate over that period. Societe Generale SA estimates
that cutting the key rate by 50 basis points would save banks 5
billion euros a year.  The deposit rate traditionally moves in tandem with the
benchmark, which policy makers kept at a record low of 1 percent
on June 6. Draghi said “a few” officials called for a cut,
fueling speculation the bank could act next month.  ECB Liquidity  The deposit rate has served as the de facto benchmark,
steering overnight market borrowing costs, since the ECB started
to provide banks with unlimited liquidity after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. That policy removed the
need for banks to borrow from each other to meet their  reserve
requirements , pushing down interest rates. The euro overnight
index average, or Eonia, stood at 0.33 percent yesterday.  “If you want to ease monetary policy, you won’t get it
from cutting the main refinancing rate,” said  Nick Kounis , head
of macro research at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “Reducing
it alone wouldn’t translate into lower market rates. Slashing
the deposit rate makes more sense.”  The ECB isn’t the only central bank in Europe considering
cutting interest rates below zero. Denmark’s central bank
signaled last month that it is willing to let rates go negative
to fight an appreciation of the krone, and the Swiss government
has said it’s also assessing emergency measures such as negative
rates to weaken the franc if Europe’s debt crisis escalates.  ‘Costly Disruptions’  Other institutions have opted against such a move. The Fed
started paying interest on deposits to help keep the federal
funds rate near its target in October 2008 and has reimbursed
banks with 0.25 percent on required and excess reserve balances
since December that year.  Some Fed policy makers last August argued that reducing the
rate could be helpful in easing financial conditions. While they
discussed doing so in September, many expressed concern that
such a move “risked costly disruptions to money markets and to
the intermediation of credit,” the Fed said in minutes
published on Oct. 12.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  introduced a Complementary Deposit
Facility in October 2008 to provide financial institutions with
liquidity and stabilize markets, and has kept the interest it
pays for the funds at 0.1 percent since then. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa told reporters on May 23 there would be “large
demerits” to reducing the deposit rate because it could lead to
a decline in money-market trading.  Encourage Lending  While the  Bank of England  cut its deposit rate to zero in
March 2009, financial institutions that have a reserve account
at the central bank don’t have an incentive to use the facility
as all reserves are remunerated at the benchmark rate of 0.5
percent.  “If the ECB cut the deposit rate, it would take an
important profit opportunity away from banks,” said Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets Europe in
London. By doing so, the ECB would also be “encouraging banks
to lend to the real economy” even though “there’s hardly any
demand for credit,” he said. Blattner predicts the ECB will cut
its benchmark and leave the deposit rate at 0.25 percent.  ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure said on Feb. 19
that market interest rates of zero or lower “can result in a
credit contraction.”  That’s because banks, trying to preserve their deposit
bases by paying customers a reasonable  interest rate , may reduce
lending to companies and households because the return is too
low and invest in higher-yielding assets instead.  Twin Benefits  The ECB has been examining the possible impact on markets
of a deposit rate cut, helping to ease policy makers’ concerns,
according to a euro-area official who asked not to be named
because the deliberations are not public.  Callow said lowering the deposit rate would encourage banks
in fiscally-sound countries like  Germany , which are flush with
excess cash, to lend to troubled banks on the euro-area
periphery, which are dependent on ECB funding.  That would have the twin benefits of reducing banks’
addiction to ECB funding and shrinking excess liquidity in the
system.  “A deposit rate at zero will be of particular support to
banks in southern Europe because it could help encourage some
flow of credit,” said Callow. “A negative deposit rate can be
damaging for money markets.”  Negative rates would destroy the business model for money-
market funds, which would face the prospect of paying to invest,
said Societe Generale economist  Klaus Baader .  ‘Twilight Zone’  European money-market funds totaled 1.1 trillion euros at
the end of March, according data from Fitch Ratings Co.  “But the ECB doesn’t set policy to keep alive certain
parts of the financial sector,” he said. “Policy makers want
to show that they haven’t exhausted their options yet.”  Another consequence of an ECB deposit rate cut may be that
some banks take advantage of a clause in the three-year loans
allowing them to pay the money back after a year, which would
reduce excess liquidity in the system.  That could be the basis for a compromise between the ECB
and the Bundesbank, whose President Jens Weidmann has repeatedly
warned of the risks related to too-generous liquidity provision,
said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Group in Brussels.  “Reducing excess liquidity with a rate cut should sound
rather interesting for the Bundesbank,” he said. “Maybe that’s
the twilight zone where Draghi and Weidmann will meet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  