-- Dunsire Joins Takeda Board as Its First Female Director
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-06-26T06:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/dunsire-joins-takeda-board-as-its-first-female-director.html
Deborah Dunsire, named Woman of the
Year by the Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association in 2009, was
elected to the board of  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , making her
the second female director of a top-10 Japanese company.  Shareholders of Takeda, Asia’s largest drugmaker, approved
Dunsire’s nomination at their annual meeting in Osaka today,
Takeda spokesman Mitsuo Oguri said. Dunsire, 50, heads the
company’s cancer drug unit Millennium Pharmaceuticals in
Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Dunsire becomes the third non-Japanese resident and first
woman to join Takeda’s nine-member board. Of the 10 largest
Topix members by index weight, only  Fanuc Corp. (6954)  has a female
director, Mineko Yamazaki, who joined the board of the world’s
biggest maker of computer controls for  machine tools  in June
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The overwhelmingly majority of Japanese corporations tend
to be one pattern, fairly conservative and fairly slow moving
style on corporate governance management,” said Veronica Taylor
who specializes in commercial law, society in Asia and
governance at  Australian National University  in Canberra.  Takeda chose someone who is distinguished to bring
different viewpoints to the boardroom table and “that’s a very
positive move,” Taylor said.  Dunsire, a Zimbabwe-born doctor, joined Takeda in 2008,
when the Japanese drugmaker agreed to buy Millennium for $8.9
billion. Before Millennium, she headed  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s North
American oncology unit, where she oversaw the release of the
leukemia treatment Gleevec.  In other board changes, Masato Iwasaki, Takeda’s head of
Japanese sales, was elected to the board, and Shigenori Ohkawa,
former chief scientific officer, stepped down.  English Meetings  Dunsire is the third non-resident of  Japan  to become a
Takeda director after Tadataka Yamada, former chairman of
research and development at  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , and Frank Morich, former head of  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s health-care unit, were
appointed last year. The company conducts its board meetings in
English.  Dunsire’s “success will depend on how that boardroom
culture evolves and the appetite for disagreement and creative
thinking for moving beyond the comfortable existing practices,”
Taylor said.  There’s a limit to the influence external directors can
realistically be expected to have because the fundamental of
Japanese  corporate governance  hasn’t changed much yet, Taylor
said.  Takeda, which traces its origins to a medicine wholesale
business opened in Osaka in 1781, had only Japanese board
members until 2009.  Takeda declined 0.6 percent to 3,475 yen at the close in
Tokyo trading. The stock has gained 2.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  