-- The Unhealthy Politics of Health Care
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-06-26T22:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/health-care-debate-shows-deeper-political-sickness.html
Respectable opinion takes it for
granted that you can’t have too much politics. The model citizen
of a healthy democratic nation is above all “engaged” --
informed, with strongly held views that he or she advances at
every opportunity. Less politics means a passive, apathetic
electorate. More politics must be good.  The U.S., if you ask me, casts doubt on this truism.  Here is a country divided. The  split  is not just between
Democrats and Republicans, between center-left and hard right.
The  United States  is also divided between a political class and
an apolitical class. On one side, opinion shapers, policy makers
and party disciples, engaged to the fullest; on the other, the
bored and disenchanted, who’ve looked at the deeply committed
and given up on Washington and all its works. Here’s the point,
though: The sickness in U.S. democracy lies less with the
disengaged, whose boredom is forgivable, than with the model
citizens who are all politics all the time.  As a practical matter, the disconnect is aggravated because
American politics goes beyond Congress and the White House. The
civil service is also thoroughly  politicized . Political
appointees go several layers down across every agency of the
executive. Even U.S. courts are politicized. This week, the
highest court in the land -- four conservatives, four liberals
and a swing vote -- will pronounce on the design of the
country’s health-care system.  Political Technocrats  Compared with that of other advanced nations, U.S. civil
society has a relatively shallow layer of nonaligned
technocrats. Its think tanks, its economists, its scientists,
its  Supreme Court  justices, almost everybody in the news media,
almost everybody with an opinion about anything, take sides. Any
member of the political class with a firm view on campaign
finance will probably have one on  public borrowing , stem-cell
research, incarceration,  climate change , states’ rights, you
name it -- and strangely enough all these views will probably
conform to one of just two available conceptions.  Tell me whether the individual health insurance mandate is
permissible under the  Commerce Clause , and I’ll tell you what
you think about fiscal stimulus.  Total engagement, you could call it -- and the result is
total paralysis.  Of course, engagement didn’t have to mean faction, a
distinction that the country’s Founding Fathers understood very
well. But faction, sorting by party, is what we’ve got, and how.
That’s what political engagement means in the U.S. It’s
permeated every fiber of government, and it’s making the country
ungovernable.  Granted, this pessimistic line of analysis has to contend
with the standing of the U.S. as the richest and most powerful
country in the world. Maybe there’s something to be said for all
politics, all the time? Actually, there is: That kind of
government, together with a constitution that disperses power,
either achieves dull centrist compromise or fights itself to a
standstill -- and in ordinary times, government limited by
factional dispute and institutional friction works pretty well.  Moreover, since the Civil War, American patriotism has
always united the country at moments of real peril. When this
country aligns its efforts and resolves to do something, watch
out. The weakness of the system is in facing issues that are
less dramatic, slower-acting and more complicated -- but
nonetheless capable of undermining the country’s success and
threatening its long-term prosperity. Health care, for instance.  Crippling Burden  The U.S. health-care system is a disaster. It fails in
basic respects and at the same time is a crippling burden on the
economy. A system costing nearly a fifth of the country’s entire
output -- vastly more than any other advanced economy spends --
can’t even guarantee coverage for all its citizens. The Obama
administration was absolutely right to confront this issue, and
to make universal coverage the principal goal of the reform.  In my view, the Affordable Care Act takes big steps in the
right direction. I hope the  Supreme Court  upholds the law. But
whatever the court decides, the reform is far from the whole
answer. Incentives in the proposed new system are still grossly
misaligned. The measures to control costs are too timid.  In this case, you can’t say a more centrist approach would
have worked better. Obama’s reform is centrist to a fault. Its
most controversial element -- the mandate requiring people to
buy insurance -- is a Republican idea. The complexity of the
plan, which is its chief weakness, arises from the
administration’s goal of leaving existing insurance arrangements
mostly in place. The president’s pledge not to raise  taxes  was
also intended to reassure. In effect, Obama promised historic
reform without perceptible change. If voters found that
prospectus hard to believe, you can’t blame them.  The problem wasn’t too little centrism, it was too much
politics -- in the following sense. Reforming health care self-
evidently involves intensely political choices, but the issues
aren’t exclusively political. Getting to grips with such a
complex issue also demands a widely accepted body of analysis.
Never in control, but somewhere in the picture, must be the
trusted nonaligned expert.  In this respect, the popularity of Daniel Patrick Moynihan’s saw that “Everyone is entitled to his own opinions,
but not to his own facts” is all too revealing. There’s more to
knowledge than facts, and more to wisdom than opinions. Those
two categories don’t exhaust the intellectual space. Getting to
grips with a policy question -- especially one as complex as
health care -- requires not just facts and opinions, but also a
body of agreed knowledge, of findings and understandings, to
serve as a basis for discussion of choices. It requires
disinterested analysis.  In the U.S., I’m wondering, does any such thing still
exist?  Ultimately, fixing the health-care system will require a
supporting consensus among the public. Without that, even if
Obama’s reform isn’t repealed outright, it risks being strangled
by a hostile Congress. If the reform were popular in the
country, it would have bipartisan support in  Washington , and the
Supreme Court wouldn’t even be thinking about overturning it.
Persuading the apolitical is vital, but it won’t be easy as long
as every expert is a partisan, every guide to policy an
activist, every judge a politician and every pundit a team
player.  Memo to the American political class: For democracy’s sake,
let’s have a bit more thinking and a bit less engagement.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Supreme Court’s Montana
decision  and the  limits of Italy’s technocracy ;  Edward Glaeser 
on the  troubling history of federal mandates ; Vali Nasr on what
 Pakistan tells us about Egypt ;  Peter Orszag  on  natural-gas cars
and trucks ; Richard J. Carroll on why a president’s economic
performance  depends on his predecessor’s record ; John C. Dugan
and T. Timothy Ryan Jr. on why the Dodd-Frank law  puts to rest
“too big to fail .”  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 