-- Heat Wave Wilts Corn as Supplies Diminish Most Since 1996
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-06-27T21:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/heat-wave-wilts-corn-as-supply-drops-most-since-96-commodities.html
Corn supplies in the U.S., the
world’s biggest exporter, are declining at the fastest pace
since 1996 just as a Midwest heat wave damages the world’s
largest harvest for a third consecutive year.  Stockpiles were probably 3.168 billion bushels (80.47
million metric tons) on June 1, 47 percent less than on March 1,
the average of 22 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.
The worst Midwest drought in more than a decade is wilting a
harvest that the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  says will be the
biggest ever. The agency updates its inventory estimate June 29
and its production forecast two weeks later.  Futures surged 25 percent since reaching a 20-month low
June 15, and Morgan Stanley expects prices to advance an
additional 11 percent to $7 a bushel in two months if the
drought persists. The rally is boosting global food costs that
the United Nations estimates dropped 14 percent from a record in
February 2011 and widening losses for ethanol producers
including Decatur, Illinois-based Archer Daniels Midland Co.  “We have a potential disaster developing for the U.S. corn
supply,” said  Peter Meyer , the senior director for agricultural
commodities at PIRA Energy Group in  New York  who cut his corn-
crop forecast after surveying fields in  Illinois ,  Indiana  and
Ohio last week. “This year may be the worst yet.”  Top Commodities  Corn rallied 14 percent this month to $6.33 a bushel today
on the Chicago Board of Trade, trailing only wheat and natural
gas among 24 commodities in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index, which fell 3.2 percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index
of equities rose 1.9 percent, and the dollar fell 0.6 percent
against a basket of six currencies. Treasuries lost 0.2 percent,
a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The USDA forecast June 12 that pre-harvest  stockpiles  at
the end of August would plunge to a 16-year low of 21.62 million
tons. That’s a 50 percent decline in two years, the most since
1990. Standard Chartered Plc forecast yesterday a third-quarter
average of $7 a bushel, a record for the period. The cost of an
option conferring the right to buy at $7 by the end of November
rose fourfold since mid-June, CBOT data show.  While the USDA’s prediction on June 12 was for a 20 percent
jump in U.S. output this year to a record 14.79 billion bushels,
the harvest is about two months away and dry weather across the
main growing region comes as plants begin to pollinate. That’s
the most vulnerable period in the growing cycle, so the next two
weeks are crucial,  Dennis Gartman , the author of the Suffolk,
Virginia-based Gartman Letter, wrote yesterday. Meyer expects
the crop to total 13.5 billion bushels.  Third Quarter  About 71 percent of the Midwest had abnormally dry soil to
extreme drought on June 19, the worst in more than a decade and
up from 1 percent a year earlier, according to the University of
Nebraska at Lincoln. Crop  conditions  on June 24 were the worst
for that time of year since 1988, with 56 percent rated good or
excellent, down from 77 percent on May 18, USDA data show. The
 National Weather Service  said June 21 that unusually warm, dry
conditions would probably continue into next month.  Slower growth and rising Brazilian supply may contain the
rally, Rabobank International analysts led by Sydney-based Luke Chandler said in a June 21 report. The bank cut its third-
quarter forecast to $6.10, from $6.20 a month earlier. Corn
demand rose 1.3 percent in 2009 as economies contended with
recession, from a 6.6 percent expansion in 2008, USDA data show.  A 21 percent jump in Brazilian production will reduce
demand for higher-priced U.S. supplies, Rabobank said. Purchases
by U.S. ethanol refiners may also weaken after retail gasoline
prices tumbled 14 percent to $3.397 a gallon from a 10-month
high on April 4, the analysts said.  Hedge Funds  Losses from ethanol refining increased from about 13 cents
to 15 cents a gallon at the start of May to the “high 20s,”
Patricia Woertz, ADM’s chief executive officer, told investors
at a Deutsche Bank AG conference in Paris on June 19. The
company shut a plant because of poor returns, she said.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators are still less
bullish than over most of the past two years, holding a combined
net-long position of 70,715 futures and options in the week
ended June 19, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
show. That compares with a two-year average of 257,000
contracts.  “The number of bushels being subtracted daily from the
U.S. crop is running over any worries about a decline in
demand,” said Marty Foreman, an economist at Doane Agricultural
Services Co., a farm and food-company researcher based in  St.
Louis . “Until we see significant and widespread rain in the
Midwest, no one knows how far yields can fall this year.”  Commodity Research  Global demand for corn has expanded for 16 straight years
and will reach a record 865.5 million tons in the 12 months
ending Oct. 1, 2012, USDA data show. World inventories on Oct.
1, 2011, were equal to about 15 percent of consumption, the
lowest ratio since 1974. U.S. yields failed to keep up, slowing
to annual gains of 1.8 percent since 1996, from 4.3 percent in
the four decades to 1970, according to government data.  The Midwest drought probably will spur the USDA to cut its
estimate for 2012 corn yields next month,  Hussein Allidina , the
New York-based head of commodity research at Morgan Stanley,
wrote in a June 19 report.  Lower yields will boost demand for fertilizers, and
investors should buy  Potash (POT)  Corp. of Saskatchewan and  CF
Industries (CF)  Holdings Inc., Charles Neivert, a managing director
at Dahlman Rose & Co. LLC in New York, wrote in a report June
25. Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash is the world’s biggest
fertilizer producer. Deerfield, Illinois-based  CF Industries  is
the top maker of nitrogen fertilizer in  North America .  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the largest U.S. hog producer, said
costs to raise an animal rose $10 to $64 per 100 pounds of pork
in the year ended April 29, Chief Financial Officer Robert W. Manly told analysts on a conference call June 14.  Chicago Board  Stockpile forecasts by analysts and traders missed the
USDA’s figures by 215 million bushels on average in the past two
years, twice as much as in the previous five years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures moved by the maximum allowed
on the CBOT after seven of the past eight reports, with an
average swing of 5.9 percent. Inventories are getting harder to
predict as growers build more silos on their land rather than
using commercial grain elevators.  Cash  prices  for corn in central Illinois, the second-
biggest producing state after  Iowa , rose or fell an average of
6.6 percent the day of the past five quarterly reports,
government data show. That compares with an average of 2.7
percent in the previous 17 years.  “Yield growth has slowed at a time when global demand is
exploding,” said  Steve Nicholson , the chief economist for
International Food Products Corp., a distributor and adviser on
food ingredients in Fenton,  Missouri . “A third year of U.S.
crop problems is something the world cannot stand this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  