-- Egypt Court Overturns Military’s Power to Arrest Civilians
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2012-06-26T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/egypt-court-overturns-military-s-power-to-arrest-civilians.html
An Egyptian court suspended the
military’s right to arrest civilians, in a win for the Muslim
Brotherhood in its power struggle with the ruling generals ahead
of an end-June handover of power to the new Islamist president.  The power of arrest, granted in a decree by the justice
minister, outraged the Brotherhood and activists who saw it as
de facto declaration of martial law. Hours after polls closed on
June 17, the ruling generals handed themselves broader powers at
the expense of the presidency.  “We are happy about this ruling,” Gamal Eid, director of
the Arabic Network for  Human Rights , said by telephone. “It
limits the militarization of Egypt after military personnel were
given wider powers to infringe on the freedom of citizens.”  The hearing was one of several challenges before the
administrative court that could benefit the Brotherhood. Even
so, the court postponed until July 9 a hearing on the order to
disband the Islamist-dominated parliament. A ruling overturning
that decision could have provided support for Mohamed Mursi as
he settled into an office.  The disputes have added to the general uncertainty as Mursi
works to unite a divided nation with pledges to appoint deputies
and advisers from broad swathes of society. In particular, he
faces the challenge of keeping the support of secular and youth
activist groups, many of whom endorsed his campaign mainly to
block his rival Ahmed Shafik, who served as prime minister under
deposed President  Hosni Mubarak .  Opposition Role  “It’s preferable for me that I don’t become a part” of
the presidential office,  Ahmed Maher , one of the co-founders of
the April 6 youth movement that played a key role in last year’s
uprising against Mubarak, said by phone. “My role in the
opposition is more important than my potential role in the
government.”  The legal challenge against the right to dissolve
parliament, filed by lawmakers including parliamentary speaker
Saad el-Katatni, was adjourned to give the government time to
respond, said Mohamed Hassan, the head of the court’s technical
office. Mursi’s supporters wanted him to take the oath of office
before the assembly instead of the constitutional court that had
ruled to disband the legislature.  His political adviser, Ahmed Deif, said Mursi had yet to
decide where the swearing-in would be held. Deif said by phone
that Mursi was looking at the legal measures that could prompt a
reversal of the decision to dissolve parliament.  Constitution Committee  Adding to the uncertainty that has dogged  Egypt ’s
transition to democracy, the Supreme Administrative Court also
adjourned until Sept. 4 a suit seeking to disband the committee
charged with drafting the country’s constitution. The measure,
if successful, would mark the second time the panel has been
scrapped.  Mursi is taking the helm of a nation divided by the
political crisis over the past 16 months, coupled with the
faltering economy. He has called for unity and pledged to
appoint deputies and advisers from across Egyptian society.  The 60-year-old U.S.-trained engineer has been eyeing
several prominent secularists and revolutionary activists, such
as Nobel laureate Mohamed ElBaradei, for top spots in the
government or as deputies and advisers, according to officials
within the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party.  He is also looking to make a clean break from his
predecessor’s past, pledging to be a president for “all
Egyptians” and adopting humbler attitudes.  A presidential official said today that Mursi called on all
institutions and individuals not to take out advertisements in
the media congratulating him on his victory, the state-run
Middle East  News Agency  reported. Companies and groups often
paid tens of thousands of pounds for full or half-page ads in
newspapers saluting Mubarak on special occasions.  Limits on Power  Mursi also asked that his picture not be hung up in
government institutions or offices and ministries, the
unidentified official was cited as saying by MENA. Mubarak’s
picture was a fixture in government offices across the country,
as were billboards showing him wearing his aviator sunglasses.  Even as he sought to strike a more amenable image than that
of his predecessor, the limits on the new president’s powers may
affect his ability to win over figures such as Abdel-Moneim Aboul-Fotouh, a politician popular with activists and
secularists whose own presidential bid failed.  Mursi has inherited the presidency without “knowing his
mandate,” Aboul-Fotouh said yesterday in a press conference. He
told reporters that he wouldn’t accept any offer to join the
presidency.  Presidential Team  Among the other names floated for senior positions is Hazem
el-Beblawi, who served for a while as deputy prime minister and
finance minister after Mubarak’s ouster, the state-run Al-Ahram
reported today, citing unidentified officials. The presidential
team, headed by Mursi, would group roughly 12 people, including
five deputies, as well as advisers and aides, the newspaper
reported.  Al-Ahram newspaper said that under the new government, the
Freedom and Justice Party would get about 30 percent of the
ministerial portfolios. Discussions were ongoing about three key
ministries -- the defense, interior and justice -- the
newspaper said, citing unidentified officials.  -- With assistance from Mariam Fam in Cairo. Editors: Digby Lidstone,  Francis Harris .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor
responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  