-- Election Year Boost Wanes for Stocks in July: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-06-26T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/election-year-boost-wanes-for-stocks-in-july-technical-analysis.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) ,
down 7.4 percent since reaching a four-year high in April on
weakening economic data, is about to lose another pillar of
support: the election year  calendar .  America’s benchmark gauge for equities has climbed an
average of 0.1 percent in third quarters before a presidential
vote in election cycles since 1945, the worst return of the year
and down from an average increase of 2.2 percent between April
and June, according to S&P. U.S. shares have returned 5.7
percent in election years since World War II, the second-worst
performance during four-year executive branch terms.  Stocks have retreated following a rally in the first
quarter, dragged down after reports on U.S. manufacturing and
employment trailed economist forecasts and concern grew that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will spur a global recession. The  S&P 500 
dropped 8.9 percent in the July-September quarter of 2008 as the
financial crisis intensified. It has rebounded 1.9 percent on
average in quarters after elections, S&P’s data show.  “This lack of direction is understandable, in our opinion,
as investors are bombarded by the hype from the conventions,
speeches and political advertisements, as they await the outcome
of the upcoming election,”  Sam Stovall , S&P’s chief equity
strategist, wrote in a note yesterday. “Once the election is
over, however, so is the uncertainty.”  While the index posts an average gain during the third
quarter of election years, it’s just as likely to rise as fall,
according to S&P’s data. The index’s lowest point during years
of presidential votes have come in the first half 71 percent of
the time, the data shows. The most consistent gains come in the
final quarter, when the gauge has climbed 81 percent of the
time.  Only twice out of the 17 election years since 1944 did the
index bottom in the fourth quarter, in 2000 and 2008, when the
market suffered the bursting of Internet and housing bubbles,
respectively. President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, is seeking a
second term against Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  on Nov. 6.  This year’s low in the S&P 500 was made on the first day of
trading at 1,277.06. The index then climbed 11 percent to a
four-year high of 1,419.04 on April 2 before slumping as much as
9.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  