-- Elizabeth Banks, Chris Pine, Zosia Mamet, Och: NYC Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-06-26T14:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/elizabeth-banks-chris-pine-zosia-mamet-och-nyc-scene.html
The 4-1/2-foot-deep pool on the roof
of  Manhattan ’s Hotel Americano stayed free of swimmers last
night as Cinema Society, DreamWorks Studios and Allure magazine
hosted a party for the film “People Like Us.”  “It’s chilly,” said Elizabeth Banks, dressed in a
glittering, shoulder-baring, body-clinging Elie Saab number, the
kind it’s a crime to cover up just to stay warm. She’s a star of
the film and on the cover of Allure this month.  Banks held court with Allure editor Linda Wells on the
lower patio while co-star  Chris Pine  posed for photographs
against the backdrop of the Empire State Building.  Producer, director and writer Alex Kurtzman greeted friends
coming off the elevator. They offered congratulations on two
movies: “People Like Us,” which opens on June 29, and “The
Amazing Spider-Man 2,” the sequel he’s deep into writing. The
movie it will follow opens July 3.  Kurtzman co-wrote and directed “People Like Us,” which is
based on his own life. It’s about a young man finding the sister
he never knew in order to fulfill his late father’s wishes to
give her an inheritance.  “Families are complicated,” Kurtzman said. “And that’s
OK. Even broken families can be mended.”  Banks said Kurtzman made the film family-style. “He could
have kept tight control, but he invited everyone to come to the
party,” she said.  Zosia Mamet, currently in New York filming the second
season of the HBO series “Girls,” stood in front of the bar
where Grey Goose Cherry Noir cocktails were served.  “I miss my horse. He’s in  Los Angeles ,” the daughter of
playwright David Mamet said.  ‘Born to Rise’  Jonathan Gray ,  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  senior managing
director, was at the IAC Building last night to fete Deborah Kenny, the founder and chief executive officer of Harlem Village
Academies, on her new book “Born to Rise: A Story of Children
and Teachers Reaching Their Highest Potential.”  “The idea of kids who live a mile north from my kids and
have little educational opportunity feels wrong,” Gray said at
the party hosted by  Barry Diller  and Diane von Furstenberg, with
 Donna Karan ,  Calvin Klein  and  Katie Couric  in attendance.  Help goes beyond financial. Gray’s wife, Mindy Gray, is a
Homework Helper. Jane Och, the wife of Daniel Och, who runs Och-
Ziff Capital Management Group LLC, teaches bridge to students.  Tis the season for charter-school books. On June 14, the
night of his run in the JPMorgan Chase & Co. Corporate Challenge
in Central Park,  Daniel Loeb , founder and CEO of Third Point
LLC, co-hosted a party for Eva Moskowitz, founder of Success
Academy Charter Schools, and Arin Lavinia, its director of
literacy. They have written “Mission Possible: How the Secrets
of the Success Academies Can Work in Any School.”  David Levinson , a real-estate developer, and Simone
Levinson, vice chairwoman of the board of the nonprofit
 Turnaround for Children , opened their home for the event.  Michael Karsch, principal of Karsch Capital Management LP,
attended both book fetes.  Lifeline Calls  “Who would have thought you’d end up in a show that is
even gayer?” Eric McCormack told Debra Messing of her
television gig on NBC’s “Smash,” a series about the making of
a Broadway musical.  The “Will and Grace” former co-stars were on stage at
Pier 60 last night for Trevor Live, a benefit for the Trevor
Project, which runs crisis and suicide-prevention helplines for
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning youth.  LGBTQ Pronounced  Trevor Project’s Lifeline handled 35,000 phone calls last
year; the organization also offers online chats. Next up is
text-messaging counseling, said Abbe Land, Trevor Project’s CEO
and executive director.  Bobby Cannavale, cast in Woody Allen’s next film, had a
quibble with the acronym LGBTQ. “Leh-ge-bee-ta-cue?” the actor
pronounced quickly. “It’s too hard to say.”  Comedian Judy Gold, a lesbian, talked of another kind of
communications problem: explaining the birds and the bees to her
straight sons, 10 and 16.  “It was fantastic!” Gold said. “Imagine explaining
heterosexual sex to your sons with a complete lack of
enthusiasm.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on dining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  