-- Encana Expands in Michigan Shale Chesapeake Is Abandoning
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-06-27T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/encana-expands-in-michigan-shale-chesapeake-is-abandoning.html
Encana Corp. (ECA) , which is probing
allegations it colluded to rig land auctions in Michigan, has
been expanding in the state’s burgeoning shale-exploration
region after one-time rival  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  decided to
quit the area.  Encana paid about $185 an acre for the rights to drill oil
and natural-gas wells on 2,156 acres (873 hectares) at an
auction last month by the Michigan Department of Natural
Resources, 88 percent less than the average paid two years ago
in the area. The Calgary-based company said on June 25 that it
began an internal review of e-mails from 2010 between Encana and
Chesapeake executives concerning bidding strategies for Michigan
drilling rights.  Chesapeake, which last week replaced more than half its
directors and stripped Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon 
of the chairman’s role amid a probe of his personal financial
transactions, didn’t participate in last month’s lease sale,
state records showed. Instead, the Oklahoma City-based company
is focusing on oilfields in Texas,  Ohio  and Oklahoma that show
more promise, said Tim Rezvan, an New York-based analyst at
Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc.  “It was the combination of disappointing well results and
falling commodity prices that made the whole play uneconomic
from Chesapeake’s standpoint,”  James Sullivan , an analyst at
Alembic Global Advisors in  New York , said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “Somebody else may look at it as a place
where they can get in at a low enough price to make a return on
it.”  Drilling Rights  Encana,  Canada ’s largest gas producer, and U.S. competitors
such as Chesapeake and  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  began amassing
drilling rights four years ago in a geologic formation known as
the Collingwood Shale that lies beneath more than a dozen
counties in northern Michigan.  Chesapeake, which was responsible for major U.S. onshore
discoveries such as the Haynesville Shale in  Louisiana  and the
Utica Shale in Ohio, spent $400 million to create a presence in
Michigan before deciding to leave.  The Collingwood Shale is part of the Michigan Basin that
stretches beneath five states and parts of Canada. The U.S.
section of the basin contains an estimated 1.2 billion barrels
of crude and 11 trillion cubic feet of gas, according to the
 U.S. Geological Survey .  Plunging Fees  The fees that energy explorers have paid to win drilling
rights in the Collingwood Shale plunged 97 percent in the past
two years amid a combination of high well costs, poorer-than-
expected production and tumbling gas prices, Rezvan said. The
average per-acre bonus paid at the May 8 Michigan auction was
$45, state records showed. That compared to $1,500 an acre at
the May 2010 sale, according to  Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG) 
in Calgary.  “The shale in northern Michigan was a concept that just
didn’t play out,” Rezvan said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  Jay Averill, an Encana spokesman, declined to comment for
this story. Jeff Wojahn, president of Encana’s U.S. division,
said during a June 21 conference call that the company has had
“positive drilling results” in Michigan and plans to drill
five to seven new wells there this year.  E-Mail Probe  Chesapeake, the largest U.S. gas producer until  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  surpassed it with the 2010 acquisition of XTO Energy, has
put its 450,000 acres of Michigan leases up for sale as part of
a plan to avoid a cash crunch by raising almost $14 billion by
the end of 2013 with asset sales.  Chesapeake is accepting bids until July 13 and plans to
close the sale by Aug. 31, according to a listing for the
properties on the website of energy-asset broker Meagher Energy
Advisors. The richest part of Chesapeake’s holdings lie 5,000
feet (1,500 meters) to 10,000 feet underground and contain oil
and natural gas liquids such as butane, according to the
listing.  The e-mails that prompted Encana’s review included an
exchange between McClendon and a company vice president
referring to a call with Encana to discuss oil and gas leases
being auctioned off in northern  Michigan  in 2010. Reuters
reported the e-mail exchanges on June 25 without saying where it
obtained them.  Encana “immediately initiated” an investigation of the
allegations, David O’Brien, chairman of the company’s board of
directors, said in a June 25 statement. “Encana therefore will
not provide any further information at this time,” he said.  The e-mails include discussions between the companies about
divvying up Michigan counties for an October 2010 auction of
state-held land leases with Encana bidding on some and
Chesapeake on others, according to the Reuters report, which
paraphrased those e-mails.  Chesapeake denied any collusion with Encana over bidding
for Michigan leases.  New Chairman  Chesapeake installed former ConocoPhillips Chairman Archie Dunham to lead the board last week after shareholders  Carl Icahn 
and Southeastern Asset Management Inc. forced McClendon out of
the chairman’s role he occupied since co-founding the company in
1989.  The company’s shares have plunged 24 percent this year as
the impact of falling gas prices was compounded by revelations
that the CEO used personal stakes in company-owned wells to
borrow from financiers that did business with Chesapeake. The
 Internal Revenue Service  and U.S. Securities & Exchange
Commission are conducting probes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  