-- Lennar Said to Discuss $1 Billion Loan From Chinese Bank
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-26T20:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/lennar-said-to-discuss-1-billion-loan-from-china-development.html
Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, has signed a memorandum of understanding
for a $1 billion loan from China Development Bank Corp. to fund
projects in San Francisco, said four people with direct
knowledge of the matter.  The loan being discussed would be extended in the next five
years on the condition  China Railway Construction Corp. (1186)  is
awarded a contract of at least $1.5 billion to build roads and
bridges for a project at the neighboring  Hunters Point shipyard 
and Candlestick Point and another on Treasure Island, said three
of the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks
are private. The terms of the agreement, which may be signed by
November, are subject to change, the three people said.  The loan will help fund a $13 billion plan to redevelop the
two locations, which were previously U.S. Navy sites, the people
said. Sales at Hunters Point, in the southeast corner of  San
Francisco , are set to begin by late 2012 with homes starting at
$525,000, according to FivePoint Communities Inc., which
oversees the projects and in which Lennar is an investor. More
than 8,000 homes may eventually be developed on Treasure Island,
built on landfill in  San Francisco Bay  for a 1939 exposition,
and adjoining Yerba Buena Island.  Marshall Ames, a spokesman for Lennar, declined to comment.
Emile Haddad, FivePoint’s chief executive officer, and Kofi Bonner, head of Lennar’s San Francisco developments, didn’t
respond to phone messages seeking comment. Michael Tymoff,
Treasure Island project director for the city of San Francisco,
declined to comment and referred questions to Lennar.  Due Diligence  China Development Bank, based in Beijing, has completed its
due diligence on the loan, three of the people said.  China Railway Construction has also signed a memorandum of
understanding with Miami-based Lennar on the projects and
recruited  China National Technical Import and Export Corp.  to
provide technical assistance, the people said. A final contract
for the construction work may be signed by November, they said.  Extending financing in exchange for contract agreements
isn’t unusual or unique to Chinese lenders,  Mark Goldman , a real
estate professor at  San Diego State University , said in a
telephone interview. U.S. companies such as  General Electric Co. (GE) 
and  Boeing Co. (BA)  have developed sophisticated financial operations
to sell products, he said.  “Most banks in America don’t have a relationship with a
contractor,” Goldman said. “Having said that, quid pro quos
are common in all financing.”  Bay Bridge  A Chinese construction company fabricated the signature
tower and span of the $6.4 billion seismic retrofit for the San
Francisco  Bay Bridge , which links Oakland and San Francisco by
running through Yerba Buena Island.  Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy
Industries Co. (900947)  won a $250 million contract for the 2,047-foot
(624-meter) span in 2006.  “There’s industry in the U.S., but they couldn’t do it in
the time frame we needed,” Bart Ney, a spokesman for the
California Department of Transportation, said in a telephone
interview. The bridge construction is slated for completion by
early September 2013.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier that Lennar was in
talks with  China Development Bank  for a loan of about $1.7
billion for the projects in San Francisco.  Calls to the office of Feng Qihua, spokeswoman for China
Development Bank in Beijing, and the China Railway Construction
press department weren’t answered today.  Lennar, which tomorrow reports earnings for the quarter
ended May 31, rose 3.1 percent to $27.39 today in  New York 
trading.  ‘Sorely Needed’  An agreement to finance the construction is unlikely to
have an immediate financial impact on Lennar because it will
take years for most of the projects to come to market, said
Megan McGrath, a homebuilding analyst with MKM Partners LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “I think it’s probably a sign of the times that credit is
pretty tight, especially for real estate,” McGrath said in a
telephone interview. “At the end of the day, it will help a
project get off the ground and create jobs and housing, which
are sorely needed in the San Francisco area.”  She has a neutral rating on Lennar, meaning she expects no
significant change in its share price in the coming 12 months.  Home prices  in San Francisco rose 3.4 percent in April from
March and have gained 9.9 percent in the past three years, the
biggest increase among the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property
values in 20 cities, according to a report released today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  