-- Lenny Dykstra to Enter Plea in Bankruptcy Fraud Case
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-06-27T11:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/lenny-dykstra-to-enter-plea-in-bankruptcy-fraud-case.html
Lenny Dykstra , the ex-New York Mets
outfielder accused of looting his $18 million mansion of
valuables after he filed for bankruptcy, has reached a plea
agreement with prosecutors.  A sealed plea agreement was filed yesterday in federal
court in Los Angeles. The court docket didn’t show a date for a
change of plea hearing.  Dykstra, 49, is already serving a three-year term for grand
theft auto and a concurrent 270-day sentence for lewd conduct
and assault. He was scheduled to go on trial next month on the
bankruptcy fraud charges. Prosecutors accused him of taking
$400,000 worth of fixtures, including chandeliers, mirrors and a
stove, from his mansion in 2009 and secretly selling them.  Thom Mrozek, a spokesman for the U.S. attorney’s office in
Los Angeles, declined to comment on the plea agreement.
Christopher Dybwad, a federal public defender representing
Dykstra, didn’t immediately return a call to his office
yesterday seeking comment.  Dykstra, known as “Nails,” joined the Mets in 1985 and
helped the team win the  World Series  the following year. He
played for the  Philadelphia Phillies  from 1989 to 1996.  Barry Bonds   The outfielder finished second to Barry Bonds in National
League Most Valuable Player Award voting in 1993, when the
Phillies reached the World Series to face the  Toronto Blue Jays .
Dykstra had a career batting average of .285, with 81 home runs
and 404 runs batted in, according to baseball-reference.com.  In April, federal prosecutors added new charges accusing
Dykstra of embezzling baseball equipment “purported to be World
Series-related.” The gloves, balls, bats, batting gloves,
helmet and shoes that Dykstra was accused of selling illegally
were part of his bankrupt estate, according to the indictment.  Dykstra faced as long as 95 years in prison if he had been
convicted of all bankruptcy fraud, obstruction of justice and
money laundering charges brought against him.  The case is U.S. v. Dykstra, 11-00415, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 