-- EPA Greenhouse-Gas Rules Upheld by U.S. Appeals Court
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-26T22:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/epa-greenhouse-gas-rules-upheld-by-u-s-appeals-court.html
The U.S.  Environmental Protection
Agency  was “unambiguously correct” in moving to set limits on
industrial and automotive emissions of  greenhouse gases 
including carbon dioxide, a federal appeals court said.  A three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 Washington  ruled today that the EPA properly concluded that
greenhouse gases are pollutants that endanger human health and
that opponents don’t have the legal right to challenge rules
determining when states and industries must comply with
regulations curtailing emissions of them.  “Today’s ruling is a setback for businesses facing
damaging regulations from the EPA,”  Jay Timmons , president of
the  National Association of Manufacturers , said in a statement.
“The EPA’s decision to move forward with these regulations is
one of the most costly, complex and burdensome regulations
facing manufacturers. These regulations will harm their ability
to hire, invest and grow.”  Companies such as Massey Energy Co., business groups
including the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  and states led by  Texas 
and Virginia sought to stop the agency through more than 60
lawsuits. Some argued that the EPA relied on biased data from
outside scientists. Automakers intervened in the lawsuit in
support of the new standards. Through the  Alliance of Automobile
Manufacturers , the carmakers supported a national program,
saying they wanted to avoid conflicting standards from state and
federal regulators.  Supreme Court  Opponents said they’re considering whether to ask the full
appeals court to hear the case or to petition the U.S. Supreme
Court, according to Shannon Goessling,  executive director  and
chief legal counsel at the Southeastern Legal Foundation, an
Atlanta-based organization that sued the EPA on behalf of
companies and lawmakers.  “This case is equaled only to the Obamacare case in terms
of its effect on the citizens, the industries and the economy in
the U.S.,” Goessling said in a phone interview.  In today’s ruling, the judges said the EPA had
“substantial record evidence” that greenhouse gases probably
caused the climate to warm over the past several decades.  “In the end, petitioners are asking us to re-weigh the
scientific evidence before EPA and reach our own conclusion,”
the panel wrote in its 82-page opinion. “This is not our
role.”  Endangerment Finding  In 2007, the U.S.  Supreme Court  ruled that the EPA had
authority to regulate greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide
and methane under the Clean Air Act if the agency declared them
a public danger. The EPA issued an endangerment finding in
December 2009, clearing the way for regulation of emissions from
 power plants , factories and other sources linked to global
 climate change .  Throughout today’s ruling, the judges refer to the Supreme
Court decision in rejecting the challengers’ arguments that the
EPA rules, which have been in effect since January 2011, are
unlawful.  EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson  called the ruling “a strong
validation” of the agency’s approach in responding to the
Supreme Court decision.  “I am pleased that the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C.
Circuit found that EPA followed both the science and the law in
taking common-sense, reasonable actions to address the very real
threat of climate change by limiting greenhouse gas pollution
from the largest sources,” Jackson said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Huge Victory’  “This is a huge victory for our children’s future,”  David Doniger , senior attorney for the Climate and Clean Air Program
at the  Natural Resources Defense Council , said in a statement.
“These rulings clear the way for EPA to keep moving forward
under the Clean Air Act to limit carbon pollution from motor
vehicles, new power plants and other big industrial sources.”  The lawsuits were consolidated, with arguments divided into
three parts and held over two days in February. The parties
argued over the agency finding that greenhouse gases are
pollutants that endanger human health. The judges also heard
arguments against a 2010 rule on motor-vehicle emissions that
opponents said improperly sets standards for stationary sources,
such as  steel mills  and power plants.  The court considered challenges to the EPA’s tailoring
rule, which limits the businesses covered by carbon regulation
and phases in controls. The agency plans to phase in industrial
polluters covered by the carbon rules through 2016.  The EPA argued in court filings that the tailoring rule is
acceptable under the  Clean Air Act  and necessary to keep states
from being overrun with permit requests.  Carbon Permits  The regulations require only the biggest emitters, such as
power plants and oil refiners, to obtain state carbon permits
before building or upgrading facilities. State officials will
determine pollution controls case by case.  Virginia and Texas said the endangerment finding should be
rejected because the EPA refused to reconsider its decision
after learning that some of the data it relied on may have been
“manipulated,” referring to findings by the United Nations
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.  “This decision doesn’t change the fact that people aren’t
building new plants in the U.S.,” said Jeffrey Holmstead, a
lawyer at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in Washington who wasn’t
involved in the case.  Holmstead, who was an EPA official during the George W. Bush administration, said Congress will ultimately step in. How
soon that happens will depend on the November elections, he
said.  The ruling “delivers a devastating blow” to the economy
and consumers said Representative  Fred Upton , chairman of the
House Energy and Commerce Committee.  Red Tape  “After enduring 40 consecutive months of higher than 8
percent unemployment, we cannot afford the EPA’s continued
expansion of red tape that is slowing economic growth and
threatening to entangle millions of small businesses,” the
Michigan Republican said in a statement.  “EPA’s rules will impose billions of dollars in compliance
and delay costs and represent an unprecedented expansion of EPA
authority that has the potential to affect virtually every
sector of the economy and touch every household,” Upton said.  The lead case is Coalition for Responsible Regulation Inc.
v. Environmental Protection Agency, 09-1322, U.S. Court of
Appeals,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  