-- EQT Midstream Raises $262.5 Million in IPO, Pricing at Top End
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-06-26T21:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/eqt-midstream-raises-262-5-million-in-ipo-pricing-at-top-end.html
EQT Midstream Partners LP (EQM) , operator
of natural-gas pipelines in the Marcellus Shale region, raised
$262.5 million in a U.S. initial public offering, pricing the
units at the top end of the proposed range.  EQT Midstream, being taken public by parent  EQT Corp. (EQT) , sold
12.5 million common units at $21 each, according to a statement
today. The Pittsburgh-based company earlier offered them for $19
to $21.  EQT Midstream’s IPO is the first in the U.S. in more than a
month, after Facebook Inc. raised $16 billion in a May 17
offering. The drought has helped put global IPOs on pace to
raise the smallest yearly amount since 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  At the IPO price, EQT Midstream’s annual dividend of $1.40
a share would pay investors about 6.7 percent. That compares
with the 6.1 percent 12-month  yield  of  Williams Partners LP (WPZ)  and
the 6.3 percent annual  payout  to  MarkWest Energy Partners LP (MWE) 
investors, Bloomberg data show.  EQT Corp. accounted for 65 percent of total gas
transmission and gathering volumes at EQT Midstream in the three
months through March 31, according to a regulatory filing. EQT
Midstream’s growth will partly depend on its ability to win
additional contracts with other gas producers, the filing shows.  EQT Midstream will operate in the Marcellus Shale region in
Pennsylvania and  West Virginia , where EQT Corp. is one of the
biggest gas producers, according to the filing. Dry gas
production in the Northeast will almost double by 2035 compared
with 2009, primarily because of resources in the Marcellus
Shale, the filing shows, citing the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  Net IPO proceeds to EQT Midstream, estimated at about $230
million, will be used to pay a cash distribution to the parent,
cover some  capital spending  planned in the next two years, and
replenish working cash.  EQT Midstream, scheduled to begin trading tomorrow, will
list on the  New York  Stock Exchange under the symbol EQM.
Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc led the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  