-- ETFs Passive No More in Challenge to $7.8 Trillion Market
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-06-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/etfs-passive-no-more-in-challenge-to-7-8-trillion-market.html
Exchange-traded funds are posing a
new threat to the $7.8 trillion market for active mutual funds
by challenging the notion ETFs are only good for tracking
benchmarks.  The $552 million  First Trust Health Care AlphaDex Fund (FXH) ,
offered by Wheaton, Illinois-based First Trust Portfolios LP,
follows an index that selects and weights U.S. health-care
stocks based on a proprietary mix of financial measures such as
sales growth and return on assets. Since its creation in 2007,
the ETF has beaten the  S&P 500  Health Care Index -- 52 stocks
chosen to broadly represent the industry -- by almost 6
percentage points a year, and the actively managed Fidelity
Select Health Care Portfolio by 3 percentage points annually.  “This isn’t an ETF that’s trying to track a benchmark,”
 Todd Rosenbluth , an analyst at research firm S&P Capital IQ in
 New York , said in an interview. “Its aim is to beat it.”  The AlphaDex fund is one of 155 ETFs, collectively holding
about $12 billion, that are blurring the line between active and
passive investing and threatening to further erode the market
share of traditional stock and bond mutual funds. Unlike their
passive peers, which use broad indexes to match a benchmark’s
return, their goal is to capture outperformance, or alpha. While
their assets are still a tiny slice of the fund industry, the
payoff for such ETFs is potentially enormous: The pool of money
chasing market-beating returns is almost four times larger than
the $2.1 trillion held by investors in passive products.  Pimco ETF  Asset managers for years have pondered how to effectively
combine the security-selection element of actively managed
mutual funds with the tradability, tax advantages and other
efficiencies of ETFs. Most have been dissuaded by the product’s
necessity to reveal its holdings daily, which allows dealers to
create new shares by delivering large baskets of a fund’s
underlying securities to the ETF.  Active managers, especially those focused on equities, say
that transparency would make it too easy for others to front-run
their movements or simply copy them without paying to be in
their fund. Some firms, including BlackRock Inc., the world’s
biggest ETF provider, have asked permission from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to introduce active ETFs that
don’t reveal holdings daily. The agency hasn’t approved any such
plans.  Pacific Investment Management Co. runs the fastest-growing
actively managed ETF, managed by  Bill Gross . The $1.5 billion
 Pimco Total Return Exchange-Traded Fund (BOND)  mimics the strategy of
Gross’s Total Return mutual fund, the world’s largest, and
doesn’t track an index. Gross buys fixed-income securities,
where it’s more difficult for others to copy or trade ahead of a
manager’s moves by monitoring holdings.  Hybrid Style  Funds like AlphaDex, which have an active element built
into their rules-based indexes, reduce the risk of being copied
because the proprietary nature of their models makes their asset
selection difficult to predict. They’re also cheaper than funds
that employ an active manager, making copying their stock
selection impractical. The average expense ratio of First
Trust’s AlphaDex series is 0.75 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the 1.41 percent
charged by the average actively managed U.S. mutual fund,
according to data compiled by research firm Morningstar Inc.  “It ends up being a hybrid between active and passive,”
Ryan Issakainen, ETF strategist at First Trust, said in a
telephone interview. “The ETF itself is still a passive
instrument insofar as it follows an index, but the index is much
more active than a traditional market-cap-weighted set of
companies.”  ‘Relative Strength’  The AlphaDex Health Care ETF is the largest of its kind in
the U.S. seeking to beat a benchmark.  Other funds include the
$547 million  PowerShares DWA Technical Leaders Portfolio (PDP)  and the
$382 million United States Commodity Index Fund.  The PowerShares DWA fund, which invests in U.S.-listed
companies, uses an index that selects them based on “relative
strength,” a proprietary screening methodology developed by
Richmond, Virginia-based Dorsey, Wright & Associates Inc. The
fund has advanced at an annual rate of 2 percent since its
inception in March 2007, compared with the 1.2 percent gain for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index over the same period, and the
3.8 percent increase in the Russell 3000 Growth Index.  The United States Commodity Index Fund tracks an index
programmed to select from 27 eligible futures contracts based on
“observable price signals.” It has returned 11 percent since
its inception in August 2010, compared with a 0.5 percent
decline for the S&P GSCI Total Return Index. The fund, which
tracks its index using derivatives, is offered by Alameda,
California-based United States Commodity Funds. The index is
provided and maintained by SummerHaven Investment Management LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Fundamental Indexing  The idea that better indexes could be built on measures of
strength such as  cash flow  isn’t new. Robert Arnott, the founder
of Research Affiliates LLC, in 2005 debuted “fundamental
indexing,” which shuns picking components of an index based on
market capitalization.  Research Affiliates has licensed the use of its proprietary
indexes to companies including Atlanta-based  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , which
is the second-biggest provider of alpha-seeking ETFs. Invesco
has about $3.5 billion within its PowerShares ETF series. First
Trust is the biggest, with about $4.2 billion in ETFs that seek
to beat traditional market benchmarks, according to data
compiled by Morningstar.  Eroding Share  Their offerings may further erode the market share of
active mutual funds, sold by traditional money managers such as
 Fidelity Investments , Capital Group Cos. and Franklin Resources
Inc. The companies tout the ability of their managers to beat
benchmarks mostly through individual security selection.  “Historically, active managers held a unique appeal to
prospective investors,” said Steven Bloom, who helped develop
the first ETF in the 1980s and is now an assistant professor of
economics at the U.S. Military Academy at  West Point , New York.
“Now, ETFs are infringing on that territory by holding out the
prospect of alpha.”  ETFs have benefited from the growing popularity of index-
based investing, pioneered for retail clients by Vanguard Group
Inc. Indexing proponents like Vanguard founder  John Bogle , argue
that active management will underperform markets, so investors
are better off using cheaper, traditional index funds.  Trailing Benchmarks  Of 172 U.S. diversified domestic stock funds with $50
million or more in assets, a track record of at least 20 years
and the S&P 500 as their primary benchmark, 10 beat the index in
the two decades ended Dec. 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The data doesn’t include funds that didn’t survive
the full 20-year period.  ETFs and index mutual funds together attracted $173 billion
in 2011 while actively managed mutual funds lost $31 billion to
withdrawals, according to data compiled by the  Investment
Company Institute . Active funds’ proportion of mutual fund and
ETF assets has declined to 79 percent from 86 percent since the
end of 2006.  First Trust’s original 16 alpha-seeking ETFs, opened in
2007, attracted little interest until they established a three-
year track record, a crucial milestone for many financial
advisers, Issakainen said. They have since grown more than 10-
fold. Another 23 First Trust funds, opened in the past 13
months, hold an additional $231 million.  Tax Advantages  “It’s coming quite often from the traditional actively
managed open-end mutual fund,” Issakainen said of client
deposits.  The ETF structure provides investors certain advantages
over mutual funds. For those eager to trade, shares can be
bought and sold throughout the day. For those who wish to buy
and hold, unlike with mutual funds, they don’t share in the
costs created by other investors who trade more frequently. ETFs
also bring tax efficiencies that mutual funds can’t achieve.  While some providers may find limited success, alpha-
seeking ETFs probably won’t do better at attracting assets than
other rules-based investing strategies, Luke Montgomery, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in an
interview.  Among traditional U.S. mutual funds, rules-based offerings,
including quantitative strategies, hold $30 billion, according
to data compiled by research firm Morningstar. Rules-based money
managers remove human judgment by relying strictly on pre-set
formulas, often mathematically based, to select securities.  No Oxymoron  “How good is rules-based investing at generating alpha,
and do people really view it as active?” Montgomery said. “And
there is still the educational hurdle of convincing investors
that active ETFs aren’t an oxymoron.”  Moreover, as with active mutual funds, an ETF’s ability to
beat an index doesn’t guarantee it. First Trust’s ETF that
invests in  consumer discretionary  stocks has returned 3.4
percent this year through June 22, compared to a 12 percent
return for its corresponding  S&P index  through the same period.  Still, as long as the SEC shows no willingness to approve
less transparent active ETFs, alpha-seeking index funds may
continue to gain ground, said Mark Abssy, senior index and ETF
manager for  International Securities Exchange , a U.S. options
exchange.  “If I want to create an ETF with an active strategy that I
think will outperform the market and take it to the SEC, the
review process may take a very long time,” Abssy said. “But if
I create a rules-based index to capture that strategy, there is
already an existing framework for regulatory acceptance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  