-- EU Carbon Steady After Trading Surge at End of Session
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-06-26T16:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/eu-carbon-climbs-as-natural-gas-german-power-increases.html
European Union carbon permits were
unchanged near a three-month high after trading volumes surged
in the final 10 minutes of the session on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London .  The benchmark emissions contract closed at 8.06 euros
($10.07) a metric ton. They earlier today dropped as much as 1.6
percent and rose as much as 2.2 percent.  Allowances jumped yesterday to their highest in more than
three months in intraday trading as regulators in Brussels
considered temporarily withholding supply sold in auctions in
the three years starting next year. Carbon has risen 27 percent
this month.  It has the potential to “spike or shoot higher quickly,”
said Brett Genus, a technical analyst with OTC Europe LLP in
London. The Relative Strength Index, a technical indicator that
is near its strongest since the three months through March last
year when permits were above 14 euros a ton, shows that while
the market may be overbought, it still has the potential to
surge, Genus said today by phone.  The RSI shows how rapidly prices advanced or dropped during
a specified time period.  Carbon for December next year was unchanged at 8.53 euros a
ton on ICE, after earlier reaching 8.73 euros, the highest since
March 16. There were 1.2 million tons traded in the last 10
minutes, compared with 16.9 million tons for the whole 10-hour
session.  “The potential for the withholding of allowances to
fundamentally tighten the vintage 2013 contract has likely
provided the recent strength in the price,” Eric Bickel, an
analyst at Summit Energy Services in Louisville,  Kentucky , said
today by e-mail. “RSI could reinforce that direction somewhat
from a technical perspective.”  German power for 2013 moved 0.6 percent higher to 48.80
euros a megawatt-hour, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg. U.K. gas for the six months through September next
year rose 0.3 percent.  United Nations Certified Emission Reduction credits for
December gained 3 cents to 3.99 euros a ton on ICE. The
contract’s volume traded jumped 26 percent to 6.8 million tons,
the most since Nov. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  