-- EU Can Sue Elevator Companies It Fined, Court Aide Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-26T09:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/eu-regulator-should-be-able-to-sue-for-damages-court-aide-says.html
The European Union’s antitrust
regulator should be able to file a damages lawsuit against
elevator makers it fined for illegal price-fixing, an EU court
aide said.  The European Commission is suing Otis Elevator Co. and
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , the world’s two largest elevator makers, and
smaller rivals Kone and Schindler, for 7.1 million euros ($8.8
million) damages in the Belgian courts because it said it
purchased elevators and escalators for EU buildings at increased
prices. The lawsuit is based on the EU’s own antitrust ruling
that found the companies colluded to raise prices.  Advocate General Pedro Cruz Villalon, the legal adviser to
the EU’s highest court, said the EU courts should handle any
challenge to the regulator’s decision to fine the companies and
national courts should “declare and quantify” damage suffered
by the regulator as a customer, according to a court statement.  “The charter of fundamental rights does not prevent the
commission, when it has found there to be a cartel, from
claiming compensation before the national courts for loss
sustained by the EU in its capacity as a customer,” the court
said in a statement.  The commission’s buildings -- including the Berlaymont, its
headquarters in Brussels with 45 elevators and 12 escalators,
and the European Union court buildings in  Luxembourg  -- had
equipment installed at “bloated” prices because of the
companies’ illegal price-fixing, the commission said in 2007.  Fines Challenged  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission
in Brussels, declined to comment on today’s legal opinion. Otis,
ThyssenKrupp, Schindler and Kone didn’t immediately respond to
e-mails seeking comment.  Dusseldorf-based ThyssenKrupp,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker
and the world’s largest maker of elevators, was fined 479.7
million euros. The commission fined Otis 224.9 million euros,
Schindler 143.7 million euros and Kone 142 million euros in
2007. The four elevator makers are separately challenging the EU
fines at the EU’s General Court.  While the advocate general’s opinion isn’t binding, it is
followed by the  European Court  of Justice in the majority of
cases. The EU court was asked to rule on points of law by the
Brussels commercial court hearing the damages lawsuit. Final
decisions on the case will be taken by the Brussels court.  The case is  T-199/11  Otis and Others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 