-- EU Roadmap to Fiscal, Bank Union Runs Into German Rebuff
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-06-26T10:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/eu-roadmap-to-fiscal-bank-union-runs-into-instant-german-rebuff.html
European proposals  to reshape the
crisis-struck euro area ran into immediate criticism from
 Germany  for putting too much emphasis on debt sharing and too
little on controlling national budgets.  The 10-year road map, released today by four officials led
by European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy , centered on
common banking supervision and deposit insurance and a
“criteria-based and phased” move toward joint debt issuance.
It also suggests that the EU could impose upper limits on annual
budgets and debt levels of nations that use the euro.  “Parts of it read like a wish list,” German Deputy
Foreign Minister Michael Link told reporters in Luxembourg. The
proposals lean “toward various models for mutualizing debt.
What comes up short is improved controls,” he said.  Germany’s instant opposition lessened the chances that a
June 28-29 summit -- the 19th since the debt crisis broke out in
early 2010 -- will point the way out of the turmoil that
threatens to splinter the euro currency.  Van Rompuy collaborated on the proposals with European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  and Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who manages meetings of euro finance ministers.  Banking Supervision  Banking supervision in the euro area could be entrusted to
the ECB, under a provision in the EU’s treaty that allows member
nations to give the central bank more oversight of all financial
institutions except insurance companies. The report envisions an
EU-wide deposit-insurance program, to “strengthen credibility”
of existing national backstops, as well as financial sector-
funded scheme for winding down banks.  Broad deposit guarantees would require a “solid financial
backstop,” the report said. Within the euro area, the 500-
billion-euro ($625 billion) European Stability Mechanism could
stand behind deposit insurance guarantees and the resolution
fund for shutting failing banks.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said the discussion
about introducing a banking union in the euro area can’t take
place without it being part of the debate on fiscal union. He
said the currency bloc’s politicians need more serious
discussion of sharing sovereignty.  “It makes little sense to single out the banking sector
when talking about mutualization of debt, without taking the
rest into account,” Weidmann, who also sits on the ECB’s
Governing Council, said in Hamburg yesterday. “It’s important
that a banking union doesn’t lead to euro bonds by the back
door.”  Joint Borrowing  Van Rompuy ’s report stopped short of proposing a binding
calendar for a switch to joint borrowing, saying that any debt-
sharing system would have to go along with tighter management of
national budgets.  “Steps toward the introduction of joint and several
sovereign liabilities could be considered as long as a robust
framework for budgetary discipline and competitiveness is in
place to avoid moral hazard and foster responsibility and
compliance,” according to the document.  Shared bills and common pay-down efforts are among the
options for moving toward joint borrowing, the report said.
Options include “the pooling of some short-term funding
instruments on a limited and conditional basis, or the gradual
roll-over into a redemption fund,” the report said.  More centralized decision making would require nations to
seek approval before issuing government debt beyond agreed-upon
limits. Countries that violate fiscal rules could be required to
make changes, the report said.  Van Rompuy said this week’s summit needs to give the go-
ahead to forge detailed proposals by December. An interim report
could be presented in October as the EU works on a “specific
and time-bound road map” toward a “genuine” economic and
monetary union.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  