-- EU’s Debt-Crisis Missteps Echoed by Patent Fight Before Summit
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-06-26T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/eu-s-debt-crisis-missteps-echoed-by-patent-fight-before-summit.html
Back in 2000, European Union leaders
promised to create a common patent system by the end of 2001 --
a deadline pushed back so often that a summit starting tomorrow
is poised to set another one.  Deadlines are such an iffy business in Europe -- it took
the EU almost 30 years to define  chocolate  -- that the bloc is
shying away from fixing the calendar for the critical project of
turning the crisis-struck euro area into what its leaders call a
“genuine” economic union.  Moves toward a fiscal and banking union will play out
“over the next decade,” proposals for the Brussels summit say
-- enough time for markets to push one or more debt-laden
countries out of a 17-nation currency zone once deemed
permanent.  “We are confident there will be a compromise: whether it
will be sufficient is another thing,” said Anton Brender, chief
economist at Dexia Asset Management in Paris, which manages
about 80 billion euros ($100 billion). “It has to be sufficient
enough for  Europe  to manage through to the next summit and if
not, there could be an explosion in markets.”  European Commission President Jose Barroso yesterday called
the petty nationalism of the  patent debate  “a typical case
where member states cannot agree for I do not know how many
years.” A similar dynamic is at work on the eve of the 19th
summit to tackle the debt crisis, which has spread from  Greece  -
- equal to 2.3 percent of the euro economy -- to put the
currency’s survival in its current form in question.  Merkel’s Focus  More than ever in the two-plus years of crisis containment,
the future-of-Europe question revolves around  Germany , with
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  under pressure to provide financial
guarantees for weaker economies.  Speaking to lawmakers in her Christian Democratic bloc in
Berlin yesterday, Merkel criticized the euro-overhaul proposals
for putting too much emphasis on shared liability and not enough
on control of wayward budgets, according to a party official who
was in the room. The 57-year-old leader told them she expects no
shared liability for debt in her lifetime, the official said.  More immediate issues -- designing an emergency credit line
of 100 billion euros for banks  Spain , bargaining with Cyprus
over a loan package of around 10 billion euros, addressing the
new Greek government’s plea for relaxed aid terms -- are the
domain of finance ministers, who next scheduled to meet on July
9.  ‘Developing a Vision’  The summit will grapple with “developing a vision for the
economic and monetary union to ensure stability and sustained
prosperity,” according to a brainstorming paper released
yesterday by four officials led by EU President  Herman Van Rompuy .  Van Rompuy  co-wrote the blueprint with Barroso, European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  and Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who manages meetings of euro
finance ministers.  “We have no reason to reject this debate, but it’s not the
core of the subject,” Bernard Cazeneuve, French European
affairs minister, told Le Monde yesterday. “The crisis response
is needed now. This will make possible the necessary
institutional evolution.”  A 10-year road map would echo the path to the euro sketched
by the Maastricht Treaty negotiations of 1991, with one
exception: that summit set 1999 as the date certain for starting
the currency, while talks over fixing it are open-ended.  ‘Federal Europe’  “We need to organize a more federal Europe,”  Didier Reynders , who was  Belgium ’s finance minister for 12 years before
becoming foreign minister, said yesterday. “It will be maybe
medium term, I don’t know, except if we have a huge crisis in
the coming months.”  Yesterday’s report offered hard-hit southern countries the
prospect of debt sharing as long as they submit to German
demands for more central control of national budgets in a
“criteria-based and phased” move toward joint borrowing.  German officials questioned the report even before it
became public. Deputy Foreign Minister Michael Link likened it
to a “wish list” that would bind Germany into a common debt-
management system without enforcing budgetary discipline.  Euro bonds or shared responsibility for the banking system
are “exactly what we don’t want,”  Rainer Bruederle , floor
leader of the Free Democrats, the junior partner in Merkel’s
coalition, said in Berlin.  Bank Supervision  Banking supervision  in the euro area could be entrusted to
the ECB, the report said. It mooted a  deposit-insurance  program
involving all 27 EU nations to “strengthen credibility” of
national backstops, as well as using a bank tax to finance a
system for shutting down failed banks.  The Van Rompuy-led group proposed expanding the role of the
500 billion-euro  European Stability Mechanism , set to go into
operation next month, to cover deposit insurance and the bank-
resolution fund.  One of the report’s faultlines lies in a call for a
“stronger democratic basis” for euro management while seeking
tighter central control over national budgets and banks.  The summit will be “very difficult,” Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  told lawmakers in  Rome  yesterday. “I am
ready to stay beyond the expected end of the meeting and to work
until Sunday night, if needed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  