-- Most European Stocks Drop on Spain Debt, U.S. Confidence
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-06-26T16:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/european-stock-futures-little-changed-asian-shares-drop.html
Most  European stocks  declined as
demand fell at a Spanish debt auction, U.S.  consumer confidence 
sank to a five-month low and Germany criticized European Union
proposals to address the financial crisis for putting too much
emphasis on debt sharing.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  tumbled the most in three years
after cutting its sales forecast.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
slid 2.3 percent as Citigroup Inc. downgraded the world’s
biggest maker of  luxury vehicles .  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC)  gained
5.5 percent after earnings beat analysts’ estimates.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 0.1 percent to 242.6 at the
close of trading, as two shares declined for each that
increased. The measure fluctuated between gains and losses at
least 20 times today. The gauge has fallen 2.8 percent over the
past four days as EU leaders prepared to begin a two-day summit
in Brussels on June 28, the 19th meeting since the euro-region
debt crisis broke out in early 2010.  “Stocks have ended in a soft manner today with clients
holding back from taking on risk ahead of the EU summit later
this week,” Ishaq Siddiqi, a market strategist at ETX Capital
in London, wrote in note. “Worries that leaders are set to
disappoint continue to grow, as Germany refrains from its stance
on euro bonds.”  Merkel Unhappy  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told members of her
Christian Democratic bloc that she is unhappy with proposals
drawn up by European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  for the
EU summit, a party official who was present at the meeting said.
The plan has the wrong balance between shared liability and
sharing control, Merkel told lawmakers, according to the
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
meeting was held in private.  The Stoxx 600 has  fallen 2.8 percent from its 2012 high  on
March 16, bringing the drop in the first six months of the year
to 0.8 percent, amid concern that Greece will be forced to leave
the euro.  National benchmark indexes retreated in 13 of the 18
western European markets today. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  slipped 0.1
percent and France’s CAC 40 slid 0.3 percent. Germany’s DAX
Index advanced 0.1 percent.  Demand declined and yields rose at an auction of Spanish
debt.  Spain  sold three-month bills at an average 2.362 percent,
compared with 0.846 percent at the last auction on May 22, and
six-month bills at an average rate of 3.237 percent, compared
with 1.737 percent last month. Demand for the three-month
securities was 2.6 times the amount sold, compared with 3.95
times in May, while the bid-to-cover ratio for the six-month
bills was 2.82 compared with 4.3.  ‘Cautious’ Investors  “The market is very focused on the spread so is taking
this negatively,” said  Arnaud Scarpaci , a  fund manager  at
Agilis Gestion SA in Paris, referring to the Spanish sale.
“It’s difficult to appreciate that yield so investors are
cautious.” Agilis Gestion oversees about $84 million.  Confidence among U.S. consumers sank to a five-month low in
June as Americans became less sanguine about the outlook for the
labor market and incomes. The  Conference Board’s index  dropped
to 62 from a revised 64.4 in the prior month, figures from the
New York-based private research group showed today. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
reading of 63.  Infineon, Europe’s second-largest semiconductor maker,
tumbled 12 percent to 5.35 euros, its biggest drop since March
2009. The company lowered its third-quarter sales forecast to a
“slight decline” from the previous quarter. The company
previously forecast revenue would be little changed.  Aixtron, BMW  Aixtron SE, a maker of equipment for the semiconductor
industry, slipped 2.8 percent to 10.58 euros as UBS AG reduced
its share-price estimate by 14 percent to 12 euros.  BMW lost 2.3 percent to 53.70 euros as Citigroup cut its
recommendation on the shares to neutral from buy, citing more
challenging automobile markets. A gauge of automakers had the
second-biggest decline of the 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx
600.  Daimler AG (DAI)  lost 1.4 percent to 33.40 euros and  Fiat SpA (F) 
fell 2.9 percent to 3.63 euros.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  led declines in Spanish banks, falling 8.7
percent to 87.6 euro cents.  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  dropped 7.1
percent to 1.72 euros while  Banco de Sabadell SA (SAB)  slid 5.3
percent to 1.50 euros.  Moody’s Investors Service cut the ratings of 28 Spanish
lenders because of the country’s sovereign debt and souring real
estate loans.  Stagecoach, Shire  Stagecoach, the operator of Britain’s busiest commuter-
train service, advanced 5.5 percent to 263.5 pence. The company
reported earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates, increased
its final dividend and said the outlook for its bus and rail
operations is positive.  Shire Plc (SHP)  advanced 3.2 percent to 1,798 pence as analysts
advised buying the U.K. drugmaker after yesterday’s 11 percent
plunge.  Societe Generale  SA and Berenberg Bank each upgraded
their recommendations on the drugmaker to buy from hold after
the shares sank the most in more than nine years yesterday as
U.S. drug regulators unexpectedly approved a copycat version of
Shire’s second-biggest selling drug.  Yara International ASA (YAR)  rallied 5.8 percent to 249.40
kroner. The world’s largest publicly traded nitrogen-fertilizer
maker advanced on speculation that dry weather in the U.S. will
boost demand for crop nutrients.  Harvest “expectations are being reduced for this year” as
production of corn and other crops is hindered by “very dry
weather and high temperatures” in the U.S., boosting fertilizer
demand, Patrick Lambert, an analyst at Societe Generale, said by
phone from Paris.  Adecco SA (ADEN)  advanced 3 percent to 38.40 Swiss francs after
saying it plans to buy back shares worth as much as 400 million
euros ($500 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  