-- Euro Approaches 2-Week Low on Concern Summit Falls Short
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-27T21:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/euro-remains-lower-against-yen-before-merkel-hollande-meeting.html
The euro approached the lowest level
against the dollar in more than two weeks after German
Chancellor Angela Merkel dimmed expectations European leaders
will solve the region’s debt crisis when they meet tomorrow.  The 17-nation currency pared its advance versus the yen
after Italian borrowing costs increased at a bill sale. Merkel
responded to a Spanish plea by saying joint euro-area bonds are
the “wrong way” to achieve integration, while Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  called for stronger fiscal discipline.
Brazil’s real fell against most of its major counterparts even
as the government renewed efforts to stimulate growth.  “We’re not seeing investors take many big positions on the
major pairs ahead of the European Union summit,”  Omer Esiner ,
chief market analyst in  Washington  at currency brokerage
Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “When expectations are low, you never want to go
into an event like this with a major position.”  The euro declined 0.2 percent to $1.2468 at 5 p.m.  New York 
time, after falling to $1.2442 yesterday, the weakest level
since June 8. The euro rose 0.1 percent to 99.40 yen after
depreciating as much as 0.2 percent.  Japan ’s currency weakened
0.3 percent to 79.72 per dollar.  The euro has dropped 3.8 percent against the greenback this
year, with the yen depreciating 3.5 percent.  Real, Pound  Brazil ’s real reversed earlier losses that came after the
country’s reduced its development bank’s long-term interest rate
to a record 5.5 percent and stepped up government purchases of
buses and tractors. Since August, central bank President
Alexandre Tombini has reduced the target lending rate by 4
percentage points to a record low 8.5 percent.  The currency increased less than 0.1 percent to 2.0754 per
dollar.  The British pound weakened after the  number of loans 
granted to buy homes dropped 5.8 percent last month to 30,238,
the least since April 2011, supporting the case for the central
bank to resume an expansion of stimulus measures.  Bank of
England  Governor  Mervyn King  told lawmakers yesterday he voted
for more so-called quantitative easing this month because of a
deteriorating global economic outlook.  Sterling fell 0.5 percent to $1.5568.  “The market is probably repositioning ahead of the
central-bank meetings next week,”  Greg Anderson , a currency
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in a telephone
interview, referring to Bank of England and European Central
Bank meetings on July 5. “Markets are quietly going in and
looking back at trades that were very popular and profitable
from earlier in the year, which is short euro and sterling.” A
short is a bet an asset will decline in value.  Peso Strengthens  U.S. durable goods orders rose 1.1 percent in May, the
first increase in three months, easing concern that growth is
faltering in the chief destination for the Latin American
country’s exports. The median forecast of 76 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News called for a 0.5 percent gain.  Mexico ’s peso, which rose against all of its major
counterparts, appreciated 1.5 percent to 13.5627 per dollar,
paring its decline this quarter to 5.5 percent.  The peso breached a key initial support level at last
week’s high of 13.63, which is just above retracement levels of
13.55 and 13.57,  Niall O’Connor , a technical analyst in New York
at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a report today. If the peso
reaches those levels versus the dollar, it should continue to
appreciate to 13.30 to 13.35, according to O’Connor.  Speaking three hours after Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano
Rajoy  made a plea for a two-day summit of European leaders in
Brussels to use all available tools to help  Spain  service its
debt, Merkel said euro bonds, euro bills and debt redemption
funds are unconstitutional in  Germany  and economically “wrong
and counterproductive.”  ‘Slightly Dragging’  Schaeuble said Germany’s “unnaturally” low bond yields
are a sign of market concern rather than German strength. “It’s
more an expression of anxiety than stability,” Schaeuble told
reporters today in Berlin. The minister said he doesn’t want
such low borrowing costs to continue.  Trading patterns suggest a flattening of the yield curve
for Spanish sovereign debt to levels last seen in November would
push the euro to less than $1.2288,  Tom Fitzpatrick , chief
technical analyst at Citigroup in New York, wrote today in a
note to clients.  Italy sold 9 billion euros ($11 billion) of 185-day bills
at an average yield of 2.957 percent, up from 2.104 percent on
May 29. The nation is scheduled to sell as much as 5.5 billion
euros of five- and 10-year securities tomorrow. The 10-year bond
 yield  fell six basis points today to 6.12 percent.  ‘Fleeting Impact’  “There may be a little bit of a fleeting impact” for
Italian bonds from the sale, said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
 London . “The market recognizes that these are difficult
conditions to raise funds.”  The euro may find support against the yen at the June 8 low
of 98.54, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on
technical indicators. Support refers to an area where buy orders
may be clustered.  The yen has climbed 8.6 percent in the past three months,
the biggest gain among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
was the second-best performer with a 4 percent advance, while
the euro lost 3.4 percent, the biggest drop.  The  New Zealand  dollar was set for the first quarterly
decline since September. The nation had a  trade deficit  of
NZ$805 million ($636 million) in the 12 months ended May 31, the
most since November 2009,  Statistics New Zealand  said.  The so-called kiwi rose 0.1 percent to 79.17 U.S. cents
after declining as much as 0.4 percent. The currency has fallen
3.4 percent since the end of March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  