-- Ex-RBC, BofA Prop Traders to Start Mortgage Hedge Fund
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r
-- 2012-06-26T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/ex-rbc-bofa-prop-traders-to-start-mortgage-hedge-fund.html
Former Royal Bank of  Canada  and Bank
of America Corp. proprietary traders plan to start a mortgage
hedge fund at New York-based Tandem Global Management LP next
month, joining at least half-a-dozen money managers wagering
that home-loan bonds will rise in value.  Stuart Lippman, 40, chief investment officer of the Tandem
Mortgage Opportunity Fund, was formerly a managing director and
senior portfolio manager in the non-agency mortgage credit
business of Royal Bank of Canada’s proprietary trading group,
according to a presentation dated May 25 that was obtained by
Bloomberg News. David Liu, 43, chief strategist and portfolio
manager at the new fund, managed portfolios in the global
proprietary trading group at Bank of America.  The fund would focus primarily on U.S. non-agency
residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-
backed securities and asset-backed securities, Lippman said in a
telephone interview. He and Liu plan to start the fund at the
end of July with $100 million and raise as much as $500 million
in 12 to 18 months.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Hayman Capital Management LP,
Cerberus Capital Management LP and Canyon Partners LLC are among
firms that have started or are seeking money for pools to invest
in U.S. residential mortgages without government backing.
Declining prices of such bonds in 2011 lured funds to invest in
the market, which paid off this year as values soared after
European regulators sought to stem the sovereign-debt crisis and
the  Federal Reserve  was able to sell $19.2 billion of the notes,
underscoring demand.  ‘Excellent Opportunity’  The $1.1 trillion market for bonds tied to U.S. residential
mortgages that lack guarantees from government-supported  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac  or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae gained 10.5 percent
in the first five months of 2012 after losing 6.9 percent last
year, according to Amherst Securities Group LP.  “We view the opportunity set for smaller-sized managers in
the space as extremely interesting at the moment,” Lippman
said. “Since the end of the first quarter the market has
experienced some retracement and dislocation providing entrants
with an excellent opportunity set across asset types.”  Before RBC, Lippman worked at UBS AG in the investment
bank, where he built the secondary trading desk in both asset-
backed securities and subprime mortgages, Tandem said in the
presentation. Before that, he was a senior portfolio manager at
Alliance Capital Management LP. Liu was head of mortgage credit
research at UBS prior to his role at Bank of America. Before
that, he was vice president of asset-backed securities research
at Deutsche Bank AG.  Lippman and Liu are currently fundraising for the fund.
Lippman declined to say how much in assets Tandem has firmwide.
Tandem was founded in 2008 by  Kevin Murphy , Joe Petri and James Tammaro. The firm also has an  emerging markets  fund run by
Ruggero de’ Rossi, partner and chief investment officer, it said
in the presentation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Nathaniel Baker in New York at 
 nbaker14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  