-- MF Global, Polly Peck’s Nadir, Sean Quinn Contempt: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-06-26T14:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/mf-global-polly-peck-s-nadir-sean-quinn-contempt-bankruptcy.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  Chapter 11
trustee,  Louis Freeh , was given the right by a London judge to
participate in all U.K. court proceedings involving the failed
brokerage.  Judge David Richards signed off on the application at a
hearing today. Freeh has filed a London lawsuit against the
administrators of the company’s U.K. unit seeking about $400
million from internal  repurchase agreements  used to move money
around the company.  Legal disputes between multiple trustees winding up MF
Global’s British and American entities have tied up about $1.1
billion of clients’ and creditors’ money, which can’t be
returned until courts decide who controls the assets. MF Global
filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31 after
getting margin calls for its bets on European debt.  A separate $700 million case between U.K. administrators
KPMG LLP and the trustee of the MF Global U.S. brokerage unit
over disputed assets is set to go ahead in  London  in April.  Ex-Polly Peck CEO Nadir Says Fled U.K. Charges a ‘Broken Man’  Asil Nadir, the former Polly Peck International Plc chief
executive accused of fraud, said he fled Britain in 1993 as a
“broken man” with no hope of receiving a fair trial.  Nadir, accused by the U.K.’s  Serious Fraud Office  of
stealing 150 million pounds ($234 million) from the company,
returned to London from Turkish-controlled  Northern Cyprus  in
August 2010 to face the fraud charges after a U.K. judge agreed
to grant him bail if he did so.  Testifying today for the first time, more than five months
after his trial began, Nadir denied stealing from the company he
built and said that lawsuits against him by the company’s
administrators left him bankrupt.  “By the time I left the  United Kingdom , I was a totally
broken man, my health was in tatters, my hope of a fair trial
was in tatters,” Nadir, 71, said.  Prosecutors allege that between 1987 and 1990 Nadir and his
associates withdrew money from the now-defunct electronics and
food-packaging firm’s U.K. accounts, funneling it to Swiss and
Bahamian companies. When London-based Polly Peck collapsed in
1990, its administrators found more than 700 million pounds owed
to creditors was unrecoverable from units of the company, which
Nadir built up during the 1980s by expanding into electronics
and hotels and acquiring the Del Monte fruit brand.  Former Irish Richest Man Sean Quinn Found in Contempt of Court  Bankrupt Irish businessman  Sean Quinn , once the country’s
richest man, may face “punitive and coercive” sanctions after
being found in contempt of court by an Irish judge.  Quinn, his son Sean and nephew Peter Darragh Quinn
continued to place assets outside the reach of nationalized
Irish Bank Resolution Corp., formerly Anglo Irish Bank Corp.,
after the court ordered them to stop last year, Judge Elizabeth
Dunne said today. Both sides will return to court on June 29
after considering the ruling.  “It will be very difficult to persuade me that there would
not be a punitive element as well as a coercive element” to
remedies to the contempt,” she said. “Sean Quinn was a witness
who was evasive and uncooperative.”  Quinn told reporters that he wasn’t dishonest, declining to
answer any more questions. The former cement-to-insurance tycoon
was declared bankrupt in January, two months after a court ruled
Quinn owed IBRC 2.16 billion euros. Quinn was worth about $6
billion in 2008, Forbes magazine said.  In April of last year,  Anglo Irish  seized control of the
equity interest in Quinn Group (ROI) Ltd. Boston-based Liberty
Mutual Group Inc. and Anglo Irish also took over Quinn Insurance
Ltd. as Quinn was ousted from the debt-laden empire built up
from the sand quarrying operation he set up on his father’s farm
in 1973.  BTA Bank Directors Chosen by Creditors Will Be Paid in Advance  BTA Bank, the Kazakh lender that plans to restructure its
debt for the second time in as many years, will pay directors
assigned by creditors in advance.  Remuneration for the first six months will be paid before
the work has been completed, as recommended by BTA’s steering
committee, according to the minutes of a meeting of the state-
run lender’s shareholders posted today on the Kazakh stock
exchange  website . Shareholders voted unanimously for the measure
June 21 in Almaty, the minutes show.  Sergey Babayan and Jacek Brzezinski were selected as
directors representing the interests of creditors on BTA’s board
after two previous representatives resigned following BTA’s
failure to make a January interest payment on its July 2018
bonds. Sovereign wealth fund Samruk-Kazyna took over BTA in
February 2009, two months before the nation’s largest lender at
the time defaulted on $12 billion of debt.  BTA’s net loss for the year jumped to 1.308 trillion tenge
($8.8 billion) as of June 1, the central bank’s financial
oversight committee said in a monthly report on its website.  Velvet Sky Airline in South Africa Liquidated, SAPA Reports  Velvet Sky, a low-cost South African airline, was
liquidated by the Pietermaritzburg High Court on June 24, the
South African Press Association reported, citing court
proceedings.  The airline owes almost 100 million rand ($11 million) to
creditors including BP Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd., the
Johannesburg-based agency reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  