-- Faes Farma Sees Risks as Spanish Pharmacies Go Out of Business
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-06-26T07:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/faes-farma-sees-risks-as-spanish-pharmacies-go-out-of-business.html
Faes Farma SA (FAE) , the Spanish maker of
allergy treatment bilastine, said payment delays by regional
governments are forcing pharmacies out of business, threatening
the company’s earnings.  Pharmacies have started asking Faes for billing extensions
after traditionally being “excellent payers,” General Manager
Gonzalo Lopez said in an interview. The Vizcaya-based drugmaker
gets almost all its revenue from pharmacies rather than
hospitals, which has left it less affected by previous
government hospital drug debts than other companies including
 Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and  Zeltia SA (ZEL) , Lopez said.  Not all pharmacies were included in the pool of health-care
suppliers to be repaid from a 35 billion-euro ($44 billion) fund
the Spanish government set up for its regions and town halls,
said Kaushal Shah, a London-based analyst for Business Monitor
International. As much as 30 percent of Spanish medicine
spending is through pharmacies, leaving drugmakers at
“significant risk,” Shah said in an interview.  “Pharmacies are having a tough time,” Lopez said in the
interview last week. “We have more closures of pharmacies than
ever. This is a strong symptom showing something new is
happening. As government delays payments, more pharmacists are
going to face problems because margins in the sector are
narrower.”  Regional Spending  Spanish pharmacies are paid by health-care funds run by
 Spain ’s 17 regional governments. The governments ran up 6.4
billion euros in unpaid drug bills for public hospitals through
the end of 2011, according to drug industry association
Farmaindustria. The bills for the hospitals fall under a
different part of the budget and will be covered by the
government repayment fund.  Pharmacies and drug companies in Spain face declining
profitability as the government moves to cut health-care costs
to trim the budget deficit.  Spain’s tax-funded health-care system plans to cut spending
by 7 billion euros by using more generics, reducing purchase
prices and centralizing buying, Health Minister Ana Mato said in
April. Patients will be charged a greater share of the cost of
medicines depending on their income.  Those measures, along with about 2 billion euros of debt
owed by the regions, are putting at risk the viability of many
of the 22,000 pharmacies in Spain as well as many jobs, Fernando
Redondo, head of the pharmacists’ lobby group Fefe, said in an
interview yesterday.  At Risk  Operating profit at an average pharmacy has dropped by
about 30 percent, and 10 percent of pharmacies could consider
going out of business, Redondo said. Those pharmacies operating
24 hours a day will probably disappear as the situation is
“unsustainable,” he said.  “There are pharmacies that have no profit at all and have
to put their own savings at risk to keep the business running,”
Redondo said. “Some may not even be able to foot the
electricity bills if the situation persists.”  Spanish pharmacists have “financial and profitability
problems,” Lopez said. “If things don’t improve at least on
the financial side, many will go out of business, that’s
clear.”  Faes Farma’s first-quarter  profit  declined 24 percent to
6.2 million euros as sales dropped 18 percent because of the
“very tough measures approved by the administration to contain
the  budget deficit ,” the company said in May.  The current landscape for public spending on
pharmaceuticals will continue “for the next couple years,”
Lopez said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  