-- Fairfax Slumps After Rinehart Says May Quit Stake: Sydney
-- B y   E d w a r d   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-06-26T07:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/fairfax-slumps-after-rinehart-says-may-quit-stake-sydney.html
Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) , Australia’s
second-largest newspaper publisher, fell to a record low in
Sydney trading after its biggest shareholder  Gina Rinehart  said
she may sell her stake if she isn’t offered seats on the board.  The stock  slumped  3.5 percent to 55 Australian cents at the
close of trading, its lowest close since the company was listed
in 1992, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index declined 0.4 percent.  Rinehart, who owns 19 percent of Fairfax through her
closely held Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd., is seeking
directorships without any conditions, such as agreeing to sign
the company’s so called  Charter of Editorial Independence . The
mining magnate, Asia’s richest woman with an $18.5 billion
fortune according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , is
pushing the company to address a slumping share price, declining
newspaper circulation and record losses.  “HPPL had hoped that Mrs Rinehart may be viewed by the
board as a successful business person and a necessary ‘white
knight,’” Hancock Prospecting said in a  letter  posted on the
website of the Australian Broadcasting Corp. “Unless director
positions are offered without unsuitable conditions, Mrs
Rinehart is unable to assist Fairfax at this time. HPPL may
hence sell its interest, and may consider repurchasing at some
other time.”  Fairfax announced last week it’s cutting 22 percent of its
workforce in a bid to halt sliding revenue and earnings.  News Corp. (NWSA) , the media company controlled by  Rupert Murdoch ,
is Australia’s largest newspaper publisher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  