-- Federal Mandates Are Almost Always a Bad Idea
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-06-26T22:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/federal-mandates-are-almost-always-a-bad-idea.html
Three questions are bundled together
in the great debate over the health-insurance mandate.  Does the U.S. Constitution give the federal government the
power to require individuals to buy health insurance? Should the
government force them to buy this coverage? Should it have the
power to make people buy such services?  The second and third questions are distinct, because even
if some individual policy, such as  mandating health insurance ,
seems reasonable, similar policies could be quite harmful, and
society would be better off if all such policies were off-limits
to the federal government.  I am no lawyer and have no opinion on the first, legal
question. As a microeconomist, I accept that there are cases
where mandating health-insurance coverage is reasonable policy.
But as a  student  of the history of federal market regulation, I
wish that the government had generally exercised less control
over markets, which leaves me hoping that the Supreme Court, in
its imminent decision on the individual mandate, curtails
federal power.  The second question falls squarely within the domain of
microeconomics, which provides two arguments that support some
mandate. The first is that people without health insurance
impose costs on others through their use of emergency rooms or
other free medical facilities. Economists call these third-party
costs “ externalities ,” and there is a broad consensus that these
costs, such as those for pollution or congestion, can justify
public intervention.  Reasonable Tax  The most standard response to the emergency-room
externality would be a tax, not a mandate, roughly equal to the
expected costs that uninsured people impose on others through
their use of emergency rooms. The American College of Emergency
Physicians puts the  total cost  of emergency rooms at about $50
billion annually. The uninsured are responsible for 17 percent
of these visits, at a  cost  of about $8.5 billion, if their trips
are neither unusually cheap nor expensive. With about  50 million 
uninsured Americans, the average uninsured person imposed $170
annually in emergency-room costs, and that would be a reasonable
tax to charge people who don’t otherwise have health insurance.  There are other reasons for mandating health-care coverage.
Under the new health-care law, insurance providers can’t charge
higher-risk patients significantly higher rates and they can’t
deny insurance based on pre-existing conditions. These
limitations create the possibility of a “lemons market
breakdown,” where healthier people flee the market, leaving only
sicker people to get insured. This leads to higher premiums and
the continuing exodus of the healthy from the market.  Fifteen years ago, my colleague and co-author David Cutler,
who was an adviser to  Barack Obama  in the 2008 campaign,  wrote 
an article illustrating just how easily this breakdown can
occur.  There is also a more paternalistic argument for mandating
health insurance. If people are prone to procrastinate, or
undervalue their health, then mandating insurance is a means of
forcing them to take better care of their future welfare. I am
sufficiently libertarian to believe that society generally works
best when people take responsibility for their own future, but
given the importance of health care, a little paternalism is
hardly a grave sin.  For these reasons, I am quite comfortable with the health-
insurance mandate in my state of Massachusetts. We haven’t yet
faced the financial consequences of the law, but both the
 Massachusetts   House  and  Senate  have passed bills to control
costs, and I am cautiously optimistic. States are forced to have
some fiscal discipline, because they have to balance their
budgets.  Controlling Behavior  Although I am open to having state governments require more
health coverage, I fear a federal government with too much power
to control individual behavior. The track record of federal
interventions in managing markets suggests a strong case for
limiting that power.  The question of bestowing appropriate power on the federal
government depends not on the health-care issue alone, but on
whether you think -- on the whole -- that the U.S. government
does good things when it heavily regulates behavior. The 1942
case that is often cited as a precedent for health care,  Wickard
v. Filburn , provides the perfect example of why I fear this
control.  The Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 established wheat
quotas for farmers to drive up prices in the Great Depression.
 Roscoe Filburn  was an Ohio farmer who had been allotted 11.1
acres of wheat. When he grew 239 more bushels than his quota
allowed, the government wanted to fine him 49 cents a bushel.
The government won the case. The  Supreme Court  noted, correctly,
that even if Filburn was going to feed his wheat to his own
animals, his extra crop would still affect the national price
for the commodity.  But even if the court was legally right to let the law
stand, wheat quotas are terrible policy that transforms a
competitive market into a cartel. Economists have often
supported trust-busting to eliminate the monopoly power that
raises prices and harms consumers. In the case of wheat quotas,
the government went in exactly the opposite direction, making
sure that ordinary Americans paid more for bread to favor the
powerful farmers’ voting bloc.  The history of federal intervention in agricultural markets
is a succession of politically motivated errors. Sometimes,
quotas have led to mountains of wasted wheat and unnecessarily
high prices. In other cases, tax dollars have been used to
subsidize commodities, such as corn syrup, that have created
health hazards.  Wickard v. Filburn  should not be a precedent for federal
control of health markets. It should be a cautionary tale of the
perils of such powers. It is not the only one. The Interstate
Commerce Commission provides a classic case of regulatory
“capture,” where regulators  served  the interests of companies
more than consumers.  States’ Responsibility  There are many reasons to leave control over markets, such
as health care, to state governments. States have tougher budget
constraints, which discipline spending. States can adapt to
local tastes, so Massachusetts can have more intervention than
 Texas . If people don’t like a state’s rules, they can always
move elsewhere. Local experiments provide the evidence that can
lead to real progress.  I’m not against all health-care mandates, but the history
of federal overreach is worrisome, and I’d be happier if the
Supreme Court decides that the law limits this ability to manage
markets.  (Edward Glaeser, an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Supreme Court’s Montana
decision  and the  limits of Italy’s technocracy ; Clive Crook on
U.S.  health care’s overheated politics ; Vali Nasr on what
 Pakistan tells us about Egypt ;  Peter Orszag  on  natural-gas cars
and trucks ; Richard J. Carroll on why a president’s economic
performance  depends on his predecessor’s record ; John C. Dugan
and T. Timothy Ryan Jr. on why the Dodd-Frank law  puts to rest
“too big to fail .”  To contact the writer of this article:
 Edward Glaeser  at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 