-- For-Profit Colleges May Lose Tax Money Under New Rules
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r   a n d   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-06-26T14:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/for-profit-colleges-may-lose-tax-money-under-new-rules.html
For-profit colleges training
security guards, medical assistants and law enforcement officers
risk losing federal money because they leave students with debts
they struggle to repay, the U.S. Education Department said.  More than 190, or 5 percent, of the career-training
programs failed to meet new loan-repayment regulations, the
government said.  Career Education Corp. (CECO)  and  Corinthian Colleges
Inc. (COCO)  ranked among the worst schools on the agency’s list.  The Obama administration is seeking to protect taxpayers
from loan defaults and stop students from taking on debt for
degrees that don’t pay off with higher incomes. The industry
lobbied against the proposed rules and said yesterday that it
will reduce access for working adults and military veterans.  “Career colleges have a responsibility to prepare people
for jobs at a price they can afford,” Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  said in a statement. “Schools that cannot meet these
very reasonable standards are on notice: invest in your
students’ success, or taxpayers can no longer invest in you.”  More than 90 percent of programs training security guards
and medical assistants could become ineligible for funding. So
could more than 80 percent of criminal justice programs.  Career Education, based in Schaumburg,  Illinois , rose 0.9
percent to $6 at 10:22 a.m. in  New York . Corinthian, based in
 Santa Ana ,  California , fell 5.4 percent to $2.63. A Bloomberg
 index  of 13 for-profit education companies gained 3.2 percent.  Federal Deadline  The Education Department regulations give colleges until
2015 to improve their outcomes before they lose federal funding.
Responding to the industry, the administration had delayed its
implementation and eased the regulations. About 16 percent of
programs could have lost eligibility under a previous proposal,
which gave colleges less time to comply.  Steve Gunderson, president of the Association of Private
Sector Colleges and Universities, called the data underlying the
new regulations “a faulty metric that does not accurately
reflect the services provided by career colleges and
universities.” In July 2011, the organization filed a lawsuit
to block it.  Congress and state attorneys general are investigating the
marketing and job-placement claims of for-profit colleges, which
can receive as much as 90 percent of their revenue from federal
grants and loans that students use to pay tuition and have
higher student-loan default rates than traditional schools. For-
profit colleges got almost $32 billion in U.S. student aid in
the 2009-2010 school year.  Three Tests  Under the rules, known as “gainful employment,” programs
would remain eligible for federal aid if they meet at least one
of three tests in a given year: at least 35 percent of former
students are repaying their loan balance; yearly educational-
debt payments of typical graduates account for a maximum of 12
percent of their total income; and those payments account for no
more than 30 percent of their discretionary income.  Programs would have to fail all three tests in the same
year for three out of four years before losing aid eligibility.
More than 190 programs at 93 colleges failed all three measures.  Among the publicly traded corporations with the most
programs failing all three tests: Corinthian’s Everest, Bryman
and Heald chains; Career Education’s Sanford-Brown, Le Cordon
Bleu, American InterContinental University and International
Academy of Design & Technology; and  Education Management Corp. (EDMC) ’s
Art Institutes, Brown Mackie and South University.  Washington Post Co. (WPO) ’s Kaplan unit had three programs, one
in medical assistance and two in criminal justice.  Apollo Group
Inc. (APOL) , owner of the University of Phoenix, the largest for-profit
chain, had one: a teacher’s assistant program in Tempe,  Arizona .  Cutting Programs  Of 45 Corinthian programs violating the new standards, the
company has moved to eliminate 13 and will address compliance
issues at 11 others, said Kent Jenkins, a company spokesman. The
rest will be able to comply using an alternative standard, he
said.  The Education Department information has errors that may
result in “misleading conclusions,” Education Management said
yesterday in a  filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Less than half of 1 percent of Kaplan students are enrolled
in programs that failed to pass the government test, Mark Harrad, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Career Education officials are analyzing the department’s
information, said Mark Spencer, a company spokesman. Rick
Castellano, a spokesman for Phoenix-based Apollo Group, didn’t
return a phone call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  