-- Former Irish Richest Man Quinn Found in Contempt of Court
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-06-26T11:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/former-irish-richest-man-quinn-found-in-contempt-of-court.html
Bankrupt Irish businessman  Sean Quinn , once the country’s richest man, may face “punitive and
coercive” sanctions after being found in contempt of court by
an Irish judge.  Quinn, his son Sean and nephew Peter Darragh Quinn
continued to place assets outside the reach of nationalized
Irish Bank Resolution Corp., formerly Anglo Irish Bank Corp.,
after the court ordered them to stop last year, Judge Elizabeth
Dunne said today. Both sides will return to court on June 29
after considering the ruling.  “It will be very difficult to persuade me that there would
not be a punitive element as well as a coercive element” to
remedies to the contempt, she said. “Sean Quinn was a witness
who was evasive and uncooperative.”  Quinn told reporters outside the court complex that he
wasn’t dishonest, declining to answer any more questions. The
former cement-to-insurance tycoon was declared bankrupt in
January, two months after a court ruled Quinn owed IBRC 2.16
billion euros. Quinn was worth about $6 billion in 2008, Forbes
magazine said.  “The proven planned, covert and illicit actions taken by
the Quinns and connected parties have resulted in millions of
euros being lost or put at risk,” said  Mike Aynsley , chief
executive officer at IBRC, which said the case revolved around
about 500 million euros of real estate.  Ousted  Quinn Group said in April 2010 that the 2.8 billion euros
owned by the Quinn family are “due primarily to equity losses
of circa 3 billion euros,” with the debt secured on family’s
international property portfolio and shareholding in the group.
Quinn’s losses largely stem from his investment in Anglo Irish
through financial derivatives called contracts for difference.  The Quinns “engaged in a complex, complicated and, no
doubt, costly, series of steps designed to put the assets beyond
the reach of Anglo, in a blatant, dishonest and deceitful
manner,” the judge said. “The behavior of the respondents
outlined in evidence before me is as far removed from the
concept of honor and respectability as it is possible to me.”  In April of last year,  Anglo Irish  seized control of the
equity interest in Quinn Group (ROI) Ltd., with interests
spanning from making glass bottles to radiators. Boston-based
Liberty Mutual Group Inc. and Anglo Irish also took over Quinn
Insurance Ltd. as Quinn was ousted from the debt-laden empire
built up from the sand quarrying operation he set up on his
father’s farm in 1973.  The state nationalized Anglo Irish in January 2009 and the
lender has since received 29.3 billion euros of taxpayer
bailouts, after a real-estate bubble burst in 2008. The bank
merged with fellow lender Irish Nationwide Building Society last
year and was renamed as IBRC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  