-- France’s EDF Buys Into Falkland Oil Wells Amid Dispute
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-06-26T16:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/france-s-edf-buys-into-falkland-oil-wells-amid-dispute.html
A unit of France’s state-controlled
power company bought a stake in exploration wells planned by
 Falkland Oil & Gas Ltd. (FOGL) , undeterred by Argentina’s claim to
sovereignty over the South Atlantic islands.  Edison International (EIX)  SpA , a unit of EDF, will receive a 25
percent interest in Falkland Oil’s northern licenses and a 12.5
percent interest in southern licenses off the archipelago that
 Margaret Thatcher  went to war to keep British in 1982. Edison
will pay drilling costs of about $50 million and make a separate
cash payment of $40 million, Falkland Oil said today in a
statement.  Edison, the Italian utility acquired by EDF last month, is
the first French-owned company to invest in exploration off the
islands. British Prime Minister  David Cameron  reiterated this
month there would be no negotiation over the territory’s future
after Argentina protested the deployment of a warship to the
region.  “The rhetoric hasn’t affected our plans so far,” Falkland
Oil Chief Executive Officer Tim Bushell said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a tricky year because of the anniversary of
the war but we hope it calms down from here.”  The shares climbed 1.1 percent in London. The stock has
gained 71 percent this year.  Before agreeing to sell the stake to Edison, the company
held talks with companies based in  North America , Europe, the
U.K. and Asia, Bushell said.  The European Union last month censured Argentina for the
seizure of oil producer  YPF SA (YPFD)  from Spain’s Repsol SA and
challenged Argentina’s import restrictions at the World Trade
Organization. The 27-nation EU is Argentina’s second-biggest
export market and its top foreign investor.  Fully Funded  Falkland Oil raised 48.5 million pounds ($76 million) in
January and is fully funded for the two wells it plans this year
targeting more than 4 billion barrels of reserves. The deal with
Edison frees up about $100 million for future investments,
Bushell said.  An EDF spokeswoman couldn’t be reached for immediate
comment.  Falkland Oil said it expects to receive the Leiv Eiriksson
rig in July, a month later than planned, after  Borders &
Southern Petroleum Plc (BOR)  completes its Stebbing well. Bushell said
results from the first well in the Loligo prospect are expected
in September.  Borders & Southern in April announced a discovery of gas
condensate in its Darwin prospect, close to Falkland Oil’s
fields. If gas is discovered at Loligo rather than oil, it could
contain as much as 30 trillion cubic feet, enough to justify
building a plant to liquefy the fuel for shipping, Bushell said.  Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH) , the only company to have made a
commercial discovery in the Falklands so far, is seeking $2
billion from a larger oil company to develop the Sea Lion field
on the northern side of the islands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  