-- Genting Said to Seek Approval to Raise Echo Stake Above 10%
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-06-26T04:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/genting-said-to-seek-approval-to-raise-echo-stake-above-10-1-.html
Companies linked to  Genting Bhd. (GENT)  and
its Chairman Lim Kok Thay sought approval for boosting a stake
in  Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP)  above 10 percent, said a person
with knowledge of the matter.  Genting made the application to the Independent Liquor &
Gaming Authority in New South Wales state, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because no announcement has been
made. A filing was also lodged with the Office of Liquor and
Gaming Regulation in Queensland state, the person said.  The move by Kuala Lumpur-based Genting signals its
intention to match billionaire  James Packer ’s bid for greater
control of Echo, which also operates three casinos in Queensland
state. Packer’s  Crown Ltd. (CWN) , the owner of casinos in Melbourne
and Perth, has a 10 percent stake in Echo and applied to raise
the holding in February.  Shares in Echo rose 0.7 percent to A$4.22 at 1:49 p.m. in
Sydney trading today, taking this year’s gain to 23 percent. The
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index dropped 0.6 percent today.  Genting
Singapore Plc (GENS)  and  Genting Hong Kong Ltd. (GENHK)  hold a combined 9.9
percent of Echo, operator or Sydney’s only casino, after buying
shares in the market last week.  Genting Bhd. controls Genting Singapore, Asia’s second-
biggest gambling company by market value, which runs one of only
two casinos in the city-state. Genting  Hong Kong  operates cruise
ships and part owns a casino in the  Philippines . The company is
57 percent owned by the family of Lim Kok Thay, according to
 data compiled by  Bloomberg.  Star Casino  Scott Tucker, a spokesman for the New South Wales
government, said he couldn’t immediately comment on Genting’s
application, as did Susan Grantham, a spokeswoman for the Office
of Liquor and Gaming Regulation in Queensland.  Echo, which operates the Star casino in Sydney, this month
outlined plans to raise A$454 million ($455 million) selling new
shares at a discount to reduce debt and expand its high-roller
program.  The company, vying with Crown for a greater share of high-
stakes gamblers, said June 15 that earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization will be A$270 million to
A$315 million in the year through June 30 amid “difficult”
conditions. That was as much as 29 percent below analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg at the time.  Echo’s former Chairman John Story stepped down June 8 after
Crown called a shareholder meeting to vote on his removal and
ran advertisements in local newspapers criticizing the company’s
“underperformance” under his leadership.  ‘Fiasco’  Packer said Story needed to take responsibility for the
“fiasco” at Echo’s Star casino in Sydney, after managing
director Sid Vaikunta left the company Feb. 2 following an
investigation of sexual harassment claims.  Perpetual Ltd. (PPT) , an Australian  fund manager , in November
sought regulatory approval to raise its stake above 10 percent,
head of equities Matt Williams said in May. It has since cut its
holding in Echo to 4.2 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  