-- George R. Hearst Jr., Newspaper Baron’s Grandson, Dies
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-06-26T16:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/george-r-hearst-jr-newspaper-baron-s-grandson-dies-at-84-1-.html
George Randolph Hearst Jr., chairman
of Hearst Corp. and the eldest grandson of newspaper and
magazine publishing tycoon William Randolph Hearst, died
yesterday of complications following a stroke. He was 84.  He died at Stanford University Medical Center in  Palo Alto ,
 California , according to a statement from the company.  His career at the family business began in 1948 and
included jobs on the staff of the  San Francisco  Examiner, as
publisher of the Los Angeles Examiner, Los Angeles Evening
Herald-Express and Los Angeles Herald-Examiner and manager of
Hearst Corp.’s real-estate holdings.  He also was president of the Hearst Foundation and a
director of the William Randolph Hearst Foundation.  Many individuals in the Hearst family remain as employees
of the New York City-based company and as members of the
governing board, spokeswoman Lisa Bagley said today. They
include his two sons, George III, publisher of the Albany Times
Union, and Stephen, vice president and general manager of
Hearst’s San Francisco-based Western Properties.  Hearst publishes 15 daily U.S. newspapers and magazines
including Car and Driver, Cosmopolitan and Esquire, and it runs
29 television stations and two  radio stations , according to its
website. The corporation is owned by The Hearst Family Trust,
established in the will of William Randolph Hearst, who died in
1951.  Family Tree  The company traces its  beginning  to 1887, when William
Randolph Hearst took over the San Francisco Daily Examiner. His
father, George Hearst, a miner and California politician, bought
the newspaper seven years earlier.  George Randolph Hearst Jr. was born on July 13, 1927, in
San Francisco to George R. Hearst Sr., the eldest son of William
Randolph Hearst, and the former Blanche Wilbur. George Sr. was
vice president at the Hearst Corp.  Hearst enlisted in the Naval Air Corps in World War II and
served in the Army during the  Korean War , including service as a
combat helicopter pilot, according to the company statement.  Survivors include his twin sister, Phoebe Hearst Cooke; his
wife, Susan, and her daughter,  Jessica Gonzalves; his three
children, George, Stephen and Erin Hearst Knudsen; and a cousin,
Patricia Hearst Shaw, who was kidnapped by the Symbionese
Liberation Army in 1974. His oldest child, Mary “Bunny” Hearst
Ives, died in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ; Charles W. Stevens
at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  