-- German GfK Consumer Confidence to Gain in July on Wages
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-06-26T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/german-gfk-consumer-confidence-to-gain-in-july-on-wages.html
German  consumer confidence  will gain
for the first time in five months in July as rising wages
outweigh growing concerns that the sovereign debt crisis is
damping economic growth,  GfK SE (GFK)  said.  The Nuremberg-based market research company today forecast
that its consumer-sentiment index, based on a survey of about
2,000 people, will increase to 5.8 next month from 5.7 in June.
Economists predicted a decline to 5.6, according to the median
of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Governments and households across  Europe  are cutting
spending, curbing demand for German goods and hurting growth.
German business confidence dropped to a two-year low in June. At
the same time, unemployment in Europe’s largest economy is at a
two-decade low and workers are winning bigger pay increases,
boosting disposable income.  “Evidently there is growing concern that  Germany  could be
drawn further into the downward spiral” created by the debt
crisis, GfK said in a statement. “However, Germans regard the
international threat as a risk to the economy in general rather
than to their personal situation.”  While a gauge of economic optimism slumped to 3 in June
from 19.6 in May, an index of income expectations rose to 40.1
from 32, GfK said. A measure of consumers’ willingness to spend
increased to 32.7 from 32.  The Bundesbank this month raised its 2012 growth forecast
for Germany to 1 percent from 0.6 percent, citing domestic
consumption driven by low unemployment.  Still,  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer, in May stuck
to a forecast that profit won’t increase this year amid concern
that the economy will struggle to grow and consumers will limit
spending. Metro shares are down about 18 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  