-- Germany Pressed to Scrap Senior Status on Spain Rescue Loans
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-06-26T09:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/germany-pressed-to-scrap-senior-status-on-spain-bank-rescue-aid.html
Germany  faces pressure to surrender
preferred status on rescue loans to Spain’s banks in a standoff
that echoes Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s rejection of debt sharing
to fight  Europe ’s deepening financial crisis.  Along with Finland and the Netherlands, Germany wants
official loans of as much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion) to
Spain to be repaid first in the event of a default, putting
bondholders at a disadvantage, said two European officials.  Finance ministers from the three AAA rated countries stood
their ground last week, said the officials who asked not to be
named because the talks were private. The decision next goes to
Merkel and fellow government leaders who have been forced to
renounce previous attempts to put taxpayers ahead of investors
in structuring bailouts.  “This is one of the focal points for market anxiety about
the Spanish bailout,” said Nicholas Spiro, head of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy in  London . The move to assert seniority
“undermines the credibility of the bailout. This is partly what
is fueling ‘bailout creep’ in  Spain  -- the fact that the price
Spain is paying for this new bailout, due to its flawed
structure at present, is a price that is too high.”  The threat of a subordinated status was one reason why
Spanish bonds tumbled after the bailout offer was made on June
9. Ten-year  Spanish yields  have risen 49 basis points to 6.71
percent since then. They rose as high as 7.29 percent last week.  Spanish Bid  Spain made a formal bid for the aid yesterday, ushering in
talks over details -- the size, potential breakup of individual
banks, and the remaking of Spain’s supervisory system -- that
will culminate when finance ministers next meet on July 9.  One issue has gone above the ministers pay’ grade: the
question of which creditors are first in line in the event of a
default. It is on the agenda for the June 28-29 European Union
summit, which will also try to lay out the building blocks of a
post-crisis economy.  “All eyes will be on Germany,” Merkel said in Berlin
yesterday.  European proposals today to reshape the crisis-struck euro
area ran into immediate criticism from Germany for putting too
much emphasis on debt sharing and too little on controlling
national budgets.  Seniority Reversals  In their on-the-job training in  crisis management , European
leaders have had to twice reverse investor-unfriendly moves,
conceding they were self-inflicting mistakes that roiled
markets. The first was the Merkel-led push starting in October
2010 to make bond writedowns part of the toolkit of the
permanent bailout fund.  That drive pushed up Ireland’s borrowing costs, forcing it
to fall back on official credits a month later. It culminated
with a second Greek aid package that foresaw bondholder losses
of 50 percent, and a political declaration that the treatment of
 Greece  was a one-off.  The second flip-flop involved lending by the permanent
fund, the European Stability Mechanism, originally intended to
enjoy seniority over other creditors. Finance ministers last
year ditched that status on any loans to Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal , the three countries then drawing on official aid.  “Very good news,” said Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  at the time. By ceding the first claim on getting repaid,
creditor governments made it easier eventually to lure private
investors to buy Irish bonds, the reasoning went.  Fund Flexibility  Euro leaders went on to rewrite the statutes of the
permanent fund, in an effort to make future bailouts more
appealing to investors. New language recalled that European
leaders had voiced a preference for senior status on loans to
debtor governments, while giving them room to wriggle out of it.  The handling of Spain -- the euro area’s fourth-largest
economy, bigger than Greece, Ireland and Portugal combined --
will test that flexibility. Finance chiefs last week eyed the
permanent fund as the main vehicle for Spanish aid, agreeing to
start with the temporary fund only if the ESM isn’t ready.  Official creditors could defuse the issue by granting loans
over longer maturities than Spanish bonds, Spanish Deputy
Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said.  “The longer the maturity and the grace period, and the
lower the  interest rate , the lower the risk of it being
considered senior,” Jimenez Latorre said in Santander, Spain,
yesterday. The issue will be resolved “satisfactorily,” he
said.  Temporary Fund  From the bondholders’ perspective, the 440 billion-euro
temporary fund known as the  European Financial Stability
Facility  is a better deal. Its lending doesn’t outrank private
investors on the scale of creditors.  For governments, the EFSF is unwieldy. It operates on a
system of guarantees that add to each country’s debt. The
permanent 500 billion-euro ESM, due to be declared operational
on July 9, is structured more as an investment fund, with
capital contributions not counting toward the national debt.  Since Spain still has to conduct a “bottom-up” test of
its banks and give them time to seek financing from the market,
the first disbursement of aid probably won’t be needed until the
end of the year, an official involved in the talks said.  By then, the ESM will be up and running, making the senior
status an option. Dropping it would produce complications with
 Finland , which in the absence of the priority repayment
guarantee would want Spain to offer collateral instead, an
official said. Finland also extracted collateral as part of the
second Greek bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  