-- Glass-Steagall Return Would Boost Banks, FDIC’s Hoenig Says
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2012-06-26T21:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/glass-steagall-revival-would-bolster-banks-fdic-s-hoenig-says.html
A revival of the  Glass-Steagall Act ,
the Depression-era law that separated commercial and investment
banking, is “absolutely necessary” to protect the U.S.
financial system, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp board member
 Thomas Hoenig  said in a Bloomberg Radio interview.  Using Dodd-Frank Act powers to break up banks one-by-one is
the wrong approach to removing the threat that risky trading
could spark a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis, Hoenig said
today on “The Hays Advantage” with Kathleen Hays.  “It’s picking winners and losers based on what they
present to you, and I think it is fraught with problems,” said
Hoenig, who retired as president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Kansas City  before joining the FDIC in April.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in response to
the worst financial crisis since the 1930s, gives regulators
power to force banks to simplify their business if so-called
living wills can’t show how they could be unwound in the event
of a collapse. Hoenig, 65, said the government should go
further, reinstituting the separation that ended when Glass-
Steagall was repealed in 1999.  Taking that step would remove government safety nets from
the banks’ riskiest investment behavior and “reinvigorate” the
U.S. investment banking industry, Hoenig said. Breaking out
investment operations in a more total way than Dodd-Frank’s so-
called Volcker Rule ban on proprietary trading, will “create a
more innovative environment,” he said.  Structural Issue  “If we don’t make these changes, I think we’re destined to
repeat the mistakes of the past,” Hoenig said. “When you mix
commercial banking and high-risk broker-dealer activities, you
increase the risk overall and as a result you invite new
problems.”  Continuing consolidation of the biggest banks is “a long-
term structural issue for banking in the  United States ” as
companies get so big that the government can’t afford to let
them fail, Hoenig said. Congress “is going to have to” look at
the idea restoring something like Glass-Steagall in order to
avert another catastrophe, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
 Kathleen Hays  in  New York  at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 