-- Glencore, Xstrata Said to Weigh Changes to Deal Payments
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-06-26T16:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/glencore-xstrata-said-to-weigh-changes-to-deal-payments-1-.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and
 Xstrata (XTA)  Plc, seeking to complete a merger next quarter, are
considering changing proposed retention payments for Xstrata
executives that have drawn the ire of investors, according to
people with knowledge of the situation.  Changes may include tying the 172.8 million pounds ($270
million) in planned payments to Xstrata Chief Executive Officer
 Mick Davis  and 72 other executives more closely to the future
performance of the combined company, the people said, asking not
to be identified as the talks are private.  The July 12 investor votes on the merger itself and the
payments are unlikely to be de-linked because Zug, Switzerland-
based Xstrata’s board regards ensuring the loyalty of its top
executives as essential to the combination, the people said.  At stake is a 17 billion-pound deal that combines Xstrata’s
mines with Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore’s commodities
trading operation to create the world’s fourth-biggest mining
company. The payments, which must be approved at Xstrata’s
shareholder vote for the deal to proceed, have been criticized
as excessive by investors including  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  and
Fidelity Worldwide Investment and last week attracted a so-
called red-top rating, the most serious corporate governance
warning from the  Association of British Insurers .  ‘Shareholder Spring’  “We would welcome changes to the terms,” Jane Coffey,
head of equities at Royal London Asset Management Ltd., said by
phone today. While reducing the amount to be paid would be
helpful, “the sticking point is paying money with no strings
attached to delivering any good performance,” she said.  Investors have this year registered a series of protest
votes over executive compensation in the U.S. and U.K. in what
has been dubbed a “shareholder Spring.”  Stock holders have rejected pay packages for executives
including  Martin Sorrell , chief executive officer of advertising
firm  WPP Plc (WPP) , and Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit, criticizing
payouts they say are insufficiently linked to performance.
Xstrata’s own directors’ remuneration report was opposed by 36.5
percent of its shareholders at its May 1 annual general meeting.  Glencore yesterday fell to the lowest relative to Xstrata
shares since the offer, signalling a heightened risk of the bid
failing. It slid to a low of 2.58 times that of Xstrata, a 7.9
percent discount to February’s agreed bid at a ratio of 2.8.  Coffey, whose firm has a 0.4 percent stake in Xstrata, said
she doesn’t expect the bid ratio to be increased “because the
shares are trading at a discount to the current ratio.”  Davis, Glasenberg  Xstrata fell 1 percent to 785.8 pence today in London as
Glencore dropped 1.8 percent to 302.7 pence. A spokesman for
Glencore declined to comment on potential changes to executive
compensation plans, as did a spokeswoman for Xstrata.  Xstrata’s Davis, 54, who would lead the combined company,
stands to get 28.8 million pounds in cash and stock bonuses over
three years should the takeover proceed. Glencore CEO Ivan Glasenberg, 55, who would be Davis’s deputy, said June 7 he had
no choice other than to accept Xstrata’s payment plan.  Xstrata Chairman  John Bond  has been sounding out investors
on their views of the deal in recent weeks.  “The success of the merger depends on Xstrata management
transitioning into the new group to manage assets generating
more than 80 percent of the combined earnings,” the company
said June 21. “Retaining a stable management team with a track
record of value delivery is in the interests of Xstrata
shareholders.”  ‘Specific Problems’  The ABI, whose members represent about 17 percent of the
U.K. stock market, said it was concerned retention payments were
being offered without any link to performance. The London-based
association highlights issues without directly advising
investors how to proceed.  “Following our discussions of this deal with investors in
recent months, we believe that the committed ‘no’ vote might be
higher than the levels indicated publicly,”  Andrew Keen , a
London-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc, wrote in a June 22
note. The payments created “specific problems” and should be
separated from the merger vote, or the bid ratio revisited.  The payments can be passed with 50 percent of votes cast,
while the merger plan requires 75 percent. Without a change to
the offer terms, a negative vote looks likely, Keen said.  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded commodities
supplier, is barred by the U.K.’s takeover code from voting its
34 percent stake in Xstrata. That means Xstrata investors with a
joint 31.75 percent stake would be able to block the payment
plan and holders with 16.5 percent could vote down the merger.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in  London  at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  