-- Google Said to Unveil Tablet at I/O, Taking Aim at IPad
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k ,   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-06-27T16:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/google-said-to-unveil-tablet-at-i-o-taking-aim-at-ipad.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  plans to unveil a $199
tablet co-branded with  Taiwan ’s Asustek Computer Inc. at its
developers conference this week, taking direct aim at  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The 7-inch tablet running Android mobile software will be
shown at the  Google I/O  conference, starting today in San
Francisco, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the plans are private. The device will also showcase new
features of Android, according to one person, who said the
latest version of the software is named Jellybean.  Google is scouting out new ways to fuel sales of tablets, a
market that may almost double this year to 118.9 million units,
according to Gartner Inc. Though Android has grabbed more than
half of the smartphone market, tablets with the software have
won less than half the iPad’s share, and will face new pressure
from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which unveiled its own tablet last week.  “The tablet market is a major challenge for Google at this
point,” said  Clayton Moran , a  Delray Beach , Florida-based
analyst at Benchmark Co. “They need to have a competitive
product with the iPad.”  David Chang , chief financial officer of Taipei-based
Asustek, declined to comment, as did Shari Yoder Doherty, a
spokeswoman for Google.  Google shares gained less than 1 percent to $564.68 at
yesterday’s close in  New York . The stock has fallen 13 percent
this year.  Google Brand  Android tablets are already available from companies such
as Samsung Electronics Co., HTC Corp. and Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc., which Google  acquired  last month for $12.5
billion. Still, Google is aiming to capitalize on its own brand
name. It also seeks to woo consumers with a slimmer device that
features the latest software yet carries a lower price than the
larger iPad, the newest versions of which start at $499.  An  image  of what is probably the Google tablet-style device
could be accessed on the Google Play website today. The image
was earlier reported by blogs, including TechCrunch.  “When you look at the tablet market, you have iPad -- and
others,” said Rhoda Alexander, an analyst at industry
researcher IHS iSuppli. “Everybody is trying to figure out how
to compete against the iPad. And I just see it as just one more
experiment going down that road.”  This would also be the first tablet to get Google’s Nexus
designation. Google has worked with manufacturers such as
Samsung in the past for Nexus smartphones to highlight the best
features of Android software. The processor in the new tablet
will be provided by  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , one of the people familiar
with the matter said.  Microsoft’s Surface  Gartner  expects the iPad to remain the global tablet leader
through at least 2016, even as it loses some market share. The
iPad will account for an  estimated  46 percent of shipments in
2016, down from a projected 61 percent this year. Android may
have 37 percent by 2016, a gain from 32 percent.  Microsoft, which had zero percent of the tablet market last
year, is expected to nab 12 percent by 2016. That number may
increase, because the Gartner report was issued before Microsoft
unveiled its Windows-based Surface tablet, which is likely to be
released by the end of the year.  Sales of Android-based tablets have been held back by a
lack of developers for the platform. Apple’s App Store has more
than 650,000 downloadable applications that include games, news
and travel tools for the iPhone and iPad. Though Google Play has
more than 500,000 for Android devices, Apple’s success with the
iPad has given it a greater lead in apps designed specifically
for tablets, said  Carolina Milanesi , an analyst at Gartner.  “At the moment, we don’t see the ecosystem being strong
enough to compete,” Milanesi said. “There’s just not enough
apps that give you a rich experience on the tablet as you have
at the moment with Apple.”  ‘Development Priorities’  HootSuite Media Inc. , whose programs help users manage
activity on Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. social networks, has
had an application on the iPad since 2010, the year it debuted,
said Chief Executive Officer Ryan Holmes. HootSuite plans to
release an application for Android tablets, he said.  “We haven’t had strong enough demand yet to prioritize on
development of that,” he said. “For our development
priorities, it’s all demand-based.”  Creating applications for Android can take more time
because the software runs on many different devices, unlike
Apple’s platform, which works only on its own phones and
tablets, Holmes said.  Indeed, just three of the 20 most popular Android devices
held individual market share of greater than 6 percent last
month, according to research from  Flurry , a provider of app-
analytics software that tracks use of more than 100 million
devices globally. Only one phone, the Samsung Galaxy S II,
commands a double-digit market share among Android products.  Motorola Questions  While the co-branded  Asus (2357)  tablet could help Google with
developers, there’s still the question of what the company will
do with Motorola Mobility. Though Google has insisted that it
will continue to treat all partners fairly, the company can now
use the device maker to experiment and test what a tablet could
do with Android, Benchmark’s Moran said.  “The stock market investors have realized that Motorola is
a key part of their mobile strategy,” he said.  Google’s collaboration with Asus on the tablet was reported
earlier by DigiTimes and by the Android and Me blog.  In addition to touting Android at the I/O event this week,
Google will use the conference to show off other products and
services. They include its  social network , Google+, which was
rolled out last year, along with the Chrome Web browser. The
event, running at Moscone Center through June 29, is expected to
draw thousands of developers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  