-- Groupon Challenged by Startups in Doling Loyalty Cards
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-06-26T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/groupon-challenged-by-startups-in-doling-loyalty-cards.html
New York City baker Eileen Avezzano
says she has a better way than  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) ’s online deals to
entice customers to buy her cheesecakes again: She doles out
loyalty cards that reward buyers for return visits.  The cards, designed by  Cartera Commerce Inc. , are digital
instead of physical, and are linked to credit cards consumers
already use. They let merchants provide a discount, or a reward
such as airline miles, every time consumers buy. A shopper may
swipe a card, and a retailer will automatically deduct some
money off the bill.  Businesses like Avezzano’s can use the programs to collect
data on when customers shop, how often they return and how much
they spend -- way beyond the scope of old-fashioned paper punch
cards. That can make them even more valuable than coupons from
Groupon and LivingSocial. About 900 million transactions will be
conducted with cards connected to merchant  loyalty programs  in
2015, generating $1.7 billion in revenue for the providers, Aite
Group LLC estimates. That’s up from $300 million in 2011.  “I see them going head-to-head,” said Peter Krasilovsky,
a vice president at researcher BIA/Kelsey. “It’s an evolution
of the deals space. The goal is to go beyond new customer
acquisitions and become part of the integrated business of
merchants.”  The digital loyalty program market began exploding around
2010, when startups and venture capitalists starting thinking
about how to bring loyalty punch cards into the digital age,
Krasilovsky said in an interview. Makers of loyalty-card
software have attracted more than $155 million in  venture
capital , he said.  Gaining Attention  Cartera  raised  $12.2 million this month in a round of
funding led by Venture Capital Fund of  New England . Along with
Cartera, startups such as Plink LLC, CardSpring and Mirth Inc.
are gaining attention in the world of merchant deals.  “We think it’s a massive opportunity,” said Jeffrey Bussgang, a general partner at Cartera investor Flybridge
Capital Partners. “Card-linked marketing benefits card issuers
and consumers equally.”  These loyalty programs, which reward buyers on top of any
airline miles or points their credit cards already offer, are
often cheaper than coupon providers, too. LivingSocial and
Groupon, the biggest provider of daily discounts, typically take
a 30 percent cut of a transaction, versus 5 percent to 15
percent when a loyalty-linked card is used. The competition adds
to concerns facing Groupon, whose shares have  tumbled  51 percent
since its initial public offering in November.  Virtual Cash  Some loyalty programs let consumers get rewards of their
choice such as cash back, discounts or virtual currency for
games like  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ’s FarmVille.  American Express Co. (AXP) ’s  Zynga
Serve Rewards card  allows fans to amass the currency when they
shop and use it for the online game.  Virtual currencies are seen as a way to attract people in
their 20s, said Ron Shevlin, a senior analyst at Aite.  “Zynga has a large portion of players who are highly
engaged in their games,” said David Messenger, executive vice
president of online and mobile for American Express. “We can
connect that online engagement with offline behavior.”  Plink, a Denver, Colorado-based startup, has designed a
loyalty program that lets users earn  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s virtual
currency by dining at more than 25,000 restaurants such as
Burger King Corp. and Outback Steakhouse.  CardSpring  allows
clients to build their own Web-based and mobile applications for
cards that can deliver coupons, digital receipts and loyalty
programs.  Frustrated Merchants  Mirth , whose program is currently in trials in New York,
rewards frequent customers with a 3 percent discount on
purchases whenever they swipe their cards at participating
restaurants.  “A lot of merchants have voiced their frustration with
deep discounts and deals,” Jeremy Galen, Mirth’s chief
executive officer, said in an interview. “With us, you don’t
have to lower your price.”  On June 19, online-payments startup Square Inc. also
introduced a  loyalty program , letting small businesses offer
rewards to customers who swipe credit cards through its handheld
readers.  Increased competition may further damp analysts’
expectations for Groupon. The Chicago-based company in March
reported a “material weakness” in its financial controls and
said fourth-quarter results were worse than previously stated
because of higher refunds to merchants.  Repeat Business  A survey earlier this year by Susquehanna Financial Group
and daily-deal aggregator Yipit showed that about half of
businesses that had offered an online deal-of-the-day weren’t
planning to do so again in the following six months. Merchants
were concerned about a low rate of repeat business from new
customers gained through such offers, the survey found.  “We continue to question whether Groupon can sustain its
high growth and begin to generate sizable profits while scaling
back marketing costs,” Edward Woo, an analyst at Ascendiant
Capital Markets LLC, wrote in a May 15 note.  As a result, Groupon’s IPO has been among the worst market
debuts for a Web company since the dot-com crash. Closely held
LivingSocial, whose backers include Amazon.com Inc., Lightspeed
Venture Partners and AOL Inc. founder  Steve Case , doesn’t
disclose sales or earnings figures.  Both LivingSocial and Groupon have started their own
loyalty programs. LivingSocial  introduced  its first co-branded
credit card with JPMorgan Chase & Co. in May. Cardholders can
earn points that can be converted into DealBucks and used toward
LivingSocial deals.  Rewards Program  Groupon’s Rewards program, which gives consumers points for
shopping at participating companies with a registered credit
card, was rolled out  nationwide  at the end of the first quarter.  “We are signing up hundreds of merchants every week, and
have hundreds of thousands of customers on this platform,” said
Jay Hoffman, vice president and general manager of the Rewards
program. “The adoption has been incredible.”  Still, some business owners view rival loyalty programs as
a better investment than daily deals.  “With Groupon, it’s a one-time offer -- it doesn’t last,”
 New York  baker Avezzano said. Customer numbers at Eileen’s
Special Cheesecake have jumped 18 percent since the shop started
using Cartera’s loyalty technology a year ago, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  