-- Groupon China Venture to Merge With Tencent-Backed FTuan
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-06-27T13:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/groupon-china-venture-to-merge-with-tencent-backed-ftuan.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the biggest daily
coupon website, is combining its Gaopeng online-commerce venture
in China with FTuan, a company backed by local partner  Tencent
Holdings Ltd. (700)   Gaopeng, in which Chicago-based Groupon owns a minority
stake, will continue to offer its own brand alongside FTuan
after the merger, according to a statement from Groupon and
Tencent yesterday. The transaction with FTuan, which provides
consumers low-priced deals for dining and purchases, is part of
Groupon’s strategy to “strengthen” its investment in China,
Groupon said. Terms weren’t disclosed.  Groupon is deepening its partnership with Tencent, China’s
biggest Internet company, as they compete against hundreds of
similar group buying sites offering discount deals for online
shoppers. Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Chairman Jack Ma’s Yunfeng
Capital is also among investors in Gaopeng, which had struggled
to adapt to the Chinese market since starting last year,
according to Alex Wang at research company iResearch.  “Gaopeng was a newcomer to the Chinese market,” Wang, a
Beijing-based analyst, said by phone. “Gaopeng and FTuan will
benefit from savings in product sourcing and operations.”  Tencent rose 3.2 percent to HK$225.60 in Hong Kong trading
today, the  biggest contributor  by index points to the 1 percent
climb in the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  Groupon gained
3.6 percent to $10.25 in  New York  yesterday, the  third-best
performing  stock in the  Nasdaq Internet Index. (QNET)   FTuan Views  FTuan, based in Beijing, had an average of 566,000 daily
page views last month, making it the ninth most-popular group-
buying site in China, according to iResearch. Gaopeng ranked
10th with 486,000 views, according to the researcher.  “It takes time to cultivate the market in China,” said
George Zhang, who represents Gaopeng at the Bite Communications
public relations agency in Beijing. “It’s too early” to assess
the performance of Gaopeng’s business, said Zhang, who couldn’t
immediately provide user numbers.  China’s group-buying industry is “consolidating” as the
number of operators declined to fewer than 1,000, from more than
3,000 last year, iResearch’s Wang said. Meituan.com is the
industry leader with almost 4 million average daily page views,
Wang said.  Groupon faced setbacks in  China  last year, when it fired
workers for poor performance, a person with knowledge of the
matter said at the time. Former and current employees of Gaopeng
said the joint venture closed more than 10 offices in the
country, and a lawyer representing former Gaopeng employees
estimated that about 400 people were fired, according to the
Wall Street Journal.  Industry Sales  China’s online group-buying market generated estimated
revenue of 4.3 billion  yuan  ($676 million) last year, more than
doubling from 1.5 billion yuan in 2010, according to iResearch.  FTuan attracted about $30 million of investment from
Tencent in March 2011. It raised a further $60 million in
September 2011 from several investors including Tencent,
according to FTuan.  Tencent said last month it plans to invest $1 billion in e-
commerce operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  