-- Microsoft’s Fight Nears End With European Antitrust Ruling
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-26T06:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/microsoft-s-decade-long-fight-nears-end-with-eu-antitrust-ruling.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s decade-long
struggle against a European Union antitrust probe that led to
more than 1.68 billion euros ($2.1 billion) in fines will enter
its final phase tomorrow when an EU court rules on the company’s
challenge.  The world’s largest software company asked the EU General
Court to void an 899 million-euro fine imposed after Microsoft
failed to comply with a 2004 antitrust order to provide rivals
with data to help them work with the company’s operating-system
software. The fine was on top of Microsoft’s earlier penalties
of 497 million euros and 280.5 million euros and surpassed only
by a 1.06 billion-euro levy against  Intel Corp .  “The two fines for Microsoft and Intel certainly sent a
message,” said Ted Henneberry, a lawyer at Bingham McCutchen
LLP in  Washington  who has previously worked for Microsoft on
matters not related to the EU case. “This thing is history now.
Today companies realize that you’re better served trying to work
things out with the” European Commission.  Microsoft’s Windows software powered 95 percent of
personal-computers in 2004, when EU regulators fined the company
a record 497 million euros and ordered it to offer a version of
the software without a music and video player. Now, amid a
global slump in PC sales, Microsoft is preparing to manufacture
its first tablet to challenge Apple’s Inc.’s iPad.  Microsoft is the only company in more than 50 years of EU
competition policy penalized for failing to comply with an
order. The Redmond, Washington-based company agreed to a
settlement in 2009 in a bid to repair the company’s relationship
with the European Commission. Microsoft is now on the other side
of the fence, filing complaints against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and what is
now its Motorola Mobility unit.  ‘Other Foot’  Brad Smith , Microsoft’s general counsel, last year wrote of
the  irony  of complaining to EU regulators about Google after
“more than a decade wearing the shoe on the other foot with the
European Commission.” Microsoft alleged that Google’s “pattern
of actions” entrenches the search engine operator’s control
over online search and related advertising.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , was told by the
EU last month it could avoid an antitrust complaint over
allegations that it discriminates against rivals if it offered
to settle a probe by early July.  Regarding Microsoft chances of success tomorrow in its
case, Robin Koch, a spokesman for the software maker in
Brussels, and Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the commission,
declined to comment ahead of the ruling. Microsoft may make one
final appeal of the ruling to the EU’s highest court, the
 European Court  of Justice.  License Guidance  Microsoft argued at a hearing last year that regulators
should have given it more guidance to avoid the fine. Under the
initial decision, Microsoft was ordered to provide data to
competitors to allow servers to connect to computers using the
 Windows operating system . It was also required to limit to a
“reasonable” amount the royalties it charged.  The fine was a so-called  periodic penalty  calculated
because Microsoft was in breach of the EU order for 488 days,
regulators said in 2008. The EU assessed Microsoft’s proposals
for 306 days of that period, the company told judges at the
hearing.  Microsoft also questioned EU reports prepared by a trustee
responsible for monitoring the company’s compliance with the
2004 decision. Although Microsoft lost a 2007 appeal of the
initial fine, the court ruled regulators were wrong to force the
company to give powers to the independent trustee who had access
to its documents, premises and software source code.  Bright Line  “The big issue is whether it was reasonable for the
commission to fine an enormous amount of money for non-
compliance with what was not a bright-line issue,” said Becket
McGrath, a lawyer at Edwards Wildman Palmer UK LLP in  London .
“The issue of whether or not there was compliance is a very
technical one” and depends on the price Microsoft charged for
the interoperability information and what it had to disclose.  The tribunal “might give guidance” on whether Microsoft’s
proposed royalty rates for the interoperability information were
excessive, said  Thomas Vinje , a lawyer at Clifford Chance LLP
who represented  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL) , which opposed Microsoft in the case.  Fair and reasonable licensing terms, or FRAND, form “the
core” of three investigations regulators opened this year into
whether  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and Google’s Motorola Mobility
used their control of standard technology patents to block
competitors’ devices, the EU’s antitrust chief  Joaquin Almunia 
 said  this month. He said there was a need “to clarify what are
the implications of FRAND and how FRAND negotiations should be
conducted.”  Microsoft filed a  complaint  with EU regulators earlier this
year, alleging that Motorola Mobility was “attempting to block
sales” of Windows computers and the Xbox game console by
overcharging for key technology patents. Motorola Mobility,
which Google bought last month, offered to settle the dispute.
Google also complained to the EU that Microsoft and Nokia Oyj
unfairly colluded to use patents to block rivals.  “The court could opine on what constitutes fair,
reasonable and non-discriminatory licensing terms in this case,
and some in the antitrust community rightly or wrongly would be
likely to interpret any such decision as a precedent for other
pending FRAND cases,” Vinje said.  The case is T-167/08, Microsoft v. European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 Awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  