-- AB InBev’s Modelo Talks Push Brewers to Endgame: Retail
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-06-26T19:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/inbev-s-modelo-bid-pushes-brewers-to-endgame-retail.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s push to
acquire full ownership of Grupo Modelo SAB is moving the beer
industry into the final stages of a decade-long consolidation.  AB InBev (IF) , the world’s largest brewer, said yesterday it was
in talks with Modelo, the Mexican company of which it owns 50
percent. AB InBev could pay $20 billion for the outstanding
stake, according to a person familiar with the matter, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.  The world’s top five brewers already control almost half of
the global beer market, leaving remaining players such as  Molson
Coors Brewing Co. (TAP)  to scratch out smaller deals in  emerging
markets  or defend themselves against a takeover. The second-
largest global beermaker, SABMiller Plc, snapped up Foster’s
Group Inc. last year.  “You’re running out of market-leading brewers in emerging
markets to buy,” according to  Melissa Earlam , an analyst at  UBS
AG (UBSN)  in London.  Amid falling beer consumption in western Europe and a surge
in the popularity of so-called craft beers in the U.S., the
world’s biggest beermakers have spent most of the past decade
expanding into emerging markets and consolidating in developed
ones to accelerate sales growth or squeeze out costs.  AB InBev, based in Leuven,  Belgium , has led the spree,
spending more than $70 billion to snap up dozens of brewers. It
was formed in the $52 billion 2008 takeover of Budweiser maker
Anheuser Busch Cos. by InBev NV, the biggest of the decade. AB
InBev controls 18 percent of the global beer market, while
SABMiller has 9.8 percent. It said yesterday it was in talks
with Modelo,  Mexico ’s biggest brewer and the maker of Corona, on
a “possible transaction to expand its current relationship.”  More Deals  “ SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and AB InBev have led global consolidation,
have the flexibility to continue to lead it, and I expect you’ll
see more deals in the brewing world,” said Terry Huffine,
 executive director  at DC Advisory, who has worked on
acquisitions including SABMiller’s 732 million-pound ($1.14
billion) purchase of Poland’s Kompania Piwowarska.  The world’s five largest beer makers account for 48 percent
of global beer sales, according to Euromonitor International. AB
InBev already controls almost half of the U.S. beer market and
may have to sell off assets if the purchase of the Modelo stake
is completed in order to meet antitrust requirements.  “ABI could face regulatory opposition to a transaction as
its volume share would go from approximately 48 percent to
approximately 56 percent,” Mark Swartzberg, an analyst with
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a note. “ABI could respond by
selling some brands,” including Natural Light and Busch.  Targeting Asia  Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) , the world’s fourth-biggest brewer with a 5.6
percent market share, has said it’s looking to buy assets in
Asia. It will invest $670 million in a brewery in  China , the
world’s biggest beer market, through 2025, it said June 12.  Heineken, the world’s third-largest brewer with 8.8 percent
of the market, also has said it’s interested in emerging-market
assets. The brewer bid for Cerveceria Nacional Dominicana, the
Dominican Republic’s biggest beermaker, Reuters reported March
27, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the matter. AB
InBev ended up agreeing in April to buy CND for $1.24 billion.  While cash-rich brewers seek assets, recent deals haven’t
just targeted fast-growing emerging markets with their access to
a burgeoning middle class. SABMiller bought Foster’s to expand
in the mature market of  Australia .  Molson Coors  agreed to buy
StarBev LP for 2.65 billion euros ($3.3 billion) in April,
moving into Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria.  Controlling Families  Any assets on the market may not come cheap, though, Earlam
said, and controlling families who lack any urgency to do deals
could drive up prices, as  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503)  found when it paid
$3.6 billion for  Schincariol Participacoes e Representacoes ,
Brazil’s second-biggest beermaker, a deal done in two tranches
because of family schisms.  “The question is the willingness of family or minority
shareholders to sell,” Huffine at DC Advisory said. “M&A is
now more a function of availability than cash flow or desire.”  Modelo, based in Mexico City, also confirmed yesterday it
was in talks about a possible transaction with AB InBev, which
may or may not lead to a deal.  With Modelo already leading Heineken in Mexico, the world’s
sixth-largest beer market, AB InBev also has a shot at boosting
profit by finding ways to squeeze out costs, and may be able to
grab more sales from Heineken by lowering some prices, said
Rafael Shin, an analyst at BTG Pactual in New York.  Buying the rest of Modelo also would allow AB InBev to gain
full control of Corona, the best-selling imported beer into the
U.S., according to analysts at  Bank Degroof. (ATL5623)   Modelo Soars  A purchase could “jump-start growth in the U.S. with a
growing Latino market,” Degroof analyst Marc Leemans wrote in a
note yesterday.  North America  and Latin America North together
accounted for more than 80 percent of their earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, he wrote. A deal
would mean the region is “even more important.”  Modelo fell 4 percent to 112.20 pesos at 2:34 p.m. in
Mexico City. AB InBev rose 1.9 percent to 57.83 euros in
Brussels at the close.  AB InBev’s purchase of the Modelo stake may be announced as
soon as this week, according to the person, who asked not to be
identified as the discussions are confidential. The deal isn’t
completed and may still fall through, the person said.  Punctured Speculation  If AB InBev takes control of Modelo, the Mexican company
would have to pay  Constellation Brands (STZ)  about $1.7 billion to
gain control of their joint venture to import beer into the
U.S., said analysts at  Credit Suisse (CSGN) , including Charlie Mills in
London. The venture expires at the end of 2016, and it states
that Modelo can notify Constellation of its desire to purchase
their stake at any point until the end of 2013, a Credit Suisse
note said.  A purchase of the Modelo stake by AB InBev may mean any
deal to buy SABMiller is at best delayed. SABMiller’s shares
fell as much as 2.2 percent yesterday on the news that AB InBev
might be in talks with Modelo.  “A deal to buy Modelo would surely puncture short-term
speculation” about an SABMiller acquisition, said  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  