-- India Seeks Afghanistan Investments, Ambassador Rao Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-06-26T21:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/india-seeks-afghanistan-investments-ambassador-rao-says.html
India  seeks to expand its economic
presence in Afghanistan as the international coalition fighting
the Taliban withdraws combat forces through 2014, India’s
ambassador to the U.S. said yesterday.  “Our intention is to invest and endure, and that’s the
approach we are taking,” Ambassador Nirupama Rao said at a
Bloomberg Government breakfast yesterday in Washington. “We
already have committed about $2 billion of investment in
Afghanistan and we are prepared to do more.”  India is hosting an investment summit on Afghanistan in New
Delhi tomorrow that will draw government bodies and companies
from around the world, including 12 companies from the U.S., Rao
said. It’s part of a global effort to help develop Afghanistan’s
economy and improve its economic and military security, she
said.  The U.S. also is encouraging a greater role for India in
Afghanistan. At a meeting last week between Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  and India’s Foreign Minister S.M. Krishna, the
two countries agreed to hold three-way talks with Afghanistan.  India has become a vital element of long-term U.S.
commercial and global strategy, with Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  calling the South Asian nation a “linchpin” in the
Pentagon’s strategy of rebalancing its forces toward the Asia-
Pacific region.  Iran Oil  President  Barack Obama ’s administration on June 12 exempted
India from financial sanctions for continuing to import oil from
 Iran .  The waiver was granted because “we have been reducing our
oil imports from Iran over the last two to three years and the
percentages have gone down,” Rao said. India’s sources of oil
imports have diversified to include Saudi Arabia,  Iraq , other
 Persian Gulf states , and  Venezuela , she said. “As you see this
diminishing of imports from Iran, the total numbers have visibly
indicated we are sourcing less from Iran.”  The U.S. is assisting India in diversifying its energy
sources and tapping shale-gas reserves, said Rao who became
India’s ambassador to the U.S. in September. She was previously
her nation’s foreign secretary after serving at Indian missions
in countries including Russia, China and Sri Lanka.  Investment Grade  India is part of a group of nations with emerging-market
economies that include Brazil, Russia, China and  South Africa ,
or BRICS. India is facing slowing growth, a record  trade  deficit
and a budget gap that has exceeded targets.  It may become the first of the BRICS nations to lose its
investment-grade  credit rating ,  Standard & Poor’s  said this
month, citing slowing growth and political roadblocks to
economic policy making.  “I wouldn’t say that the engine is stalling,” Rao said.
“It will pick up speed again. The government is very aware of
the various factors that have contributed to a certain
deceleration in the growth rate of the gross domestic product
and of the economy.”  India’s GDP rose 5.3 percent in the three months ended
March from a year earlier, compared with 6.1 percent in the
previous quarter, according to the  Central Statistical Office .  “There have been some supply-side bottlenecks within the
country,” she said. “There’s been some inflationary trends and
the fact that in Europe things are not looking that good has
affected our trade, our exports.” she said.  “The fundamentals of the Indian economy are very, very
strong,” she said.  With U.S. presidential campaign under way, India is eager
to see that the U.S. remain open to attracting talent from
around the world, Rao said.  “We would not like to see any rising trends in
protectionism, because this is a country whose strength and
vitality is built on immigration,” she said.  Indian companies have invested about $27 billion in the
U.S. in the last few years, she said. Indian companies also have
a presence in about 43 states in the U.S., creating about
203,000 direct and indirect jobs, Rao said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  