-- India’s Growth Marred by ‘Governance Issue’, Kotak’s Prasad Says
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-06-26T09:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/india-s-growth-marred-by-governance-issue-kotak-s-prasad-says.html
Sanjeev Prasad, senior executive
director and co-head of Kotak Institutional Equities, comments
on the outlook of Indian markets. He spoke in an interview to
Bloomberg UTV today.  The benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index fell 0.2 percent to
16,843.05 at 2:55 p.m., swinging between gains, losses at least
12 times. The 30-stock measure is valued at 13.2 times estimated
earnings. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index trades at 9.9 times.  On the rupee:  “Rupee depreciation should impart lot of competitiveness
to manufacturing and exports but can India do the right things
for growth to improve and exports to increase? We have the right
policies and reasonable regulations. The important thing is to
simply implement them. We just need to get down to the basics of
running the country well.”  The rupee lost 0.2 percent to 57.11 per dollar today. The
currency has slumped 10.9 percent this quarter, more than twice
the 4.1 percent drop in  Malaysia ’s ringgit, the second-biggest
loser among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies.  On foreign investors:  “Foreign investors believe in the long-term demographics
and like the culture of entrepreneurship here. The frustrating
part is the governance issue and all discussions boil down to
that. Some long-term investors, who have been  India  bulls for
the last 15 to 20 years, are raising this question. The market
hasn’t gone anywhere the past five years, and in dollar terms,
it has actually gone down. That has raised question marks.”  Offshore funds cut holdings of local bonds by $1.2 billion
from a record $31.5 billion reached on Feb. 29 and pulled out
$273 million from equities in May, a second month of net sales,
data from the regulator show.  On earnings outlook:  “The numbers have been trending down in general. When we
started the fourth-quarter  earnings  season we were looking at 12
percent to 13 percent growth for the next two years. For 2013,
we have come down to below 10 percent for the Sensex.  ‘‘I still think there’s a lot of earnings risks out there,
particularly for the banking sector, and the metals and mining
space, where commodity prices have corrected significantly and
are not reflecting in the numbers. There will be some upside as
the rupee has declined. That will offset some of the decline in
global commodity prices.’’  On equity  valuations (SENSEX) :  ‘‘Valuations are not very cheap unfortunately. The broad
market trades at about 13.5 times estimated earnings for 2013.
That is more expensive than other BRIC nations. Both Brazil and
 China  are below 10 times. It’s a wait and watch for us.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  