-- Minera IRL Falls Most This Year on Protest Prospect
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-06-26T20:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/minera-irl-falls-most-this-year-on-protest-prospect.html
Minera IRL Ltd. (MIRL) , a U.K. gold
producer with a mine in  Peru , dropped the most this year after a
newspaper reported that protests may resume where the company is
developing its  Ollaechea  gold project.  IRL plunged 10 percent to 70 cents at the close of trading
in  Lima , the biggest decline since Dec. 14. The stock has
slumped 39 percent this quarter.  “Any noise about mining will hit this project,” said
Carlos Rojas, a trader at Andino Asset Management SAC. “IRL’s
Corihuarmi mine only has another five years of production left,
so the company’s counting on the Ollaechea deposit.”  Walter Aduviri, who headed demonstrations that forced the
government to suspend  Bear Creek Mining Corp. (BCM) ’s Santa Ana silver
project in the southern Andean Puno region last year, may resume
protests, La Republica reported yesterday. IRL’s $170 million
Ollaechea deposit is located in the same area.  Community protests in Peru have suspended projects operated
by  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  and  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) , undermining a
government drive to attract $50 billion of mining investments in
the next decade.  IRL, which is also developing the $60 million Don Nicolas
gold project in Argentina, may face difficulties after the
government of President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
restricted access to imported mining equipment, Rojas said.  Coeur, Idaho-based  Coeur d’Alene Mines Corp.  said yesterday
it will reduce activity at its Martha gold and silver mine in
southern Argentina because of rising operational costs.  IRL isn’t aware of any specific factors causing the stock’s
decline, President Diego Benavides said today in a telephone
interview.  The company plans to have financing in place within six
months to develop mines in Argentina and Peru, Benavides said in
a May 15 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  