-- International Paper Braces for Rising Russian Costs on WTO Entry
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-06-26T14:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/international-paper-braces-for-rising-russian-costs-on-wto-entry.html
International Paper Co. (IP) , the world’s
largest pulp and paper maker, expects costs to rise in  Russia  as
the country’s imminent entry into the  World Trade Organization 
drives up competition.  Russia’s membership, which requires it to cut export duties
on timber and curb import taxes on paper products, will push up
wood costs at International Paper’s Svetogorsk mill near the
Finnish border, said country head Franz Marx. “We’re working on
forestry concessions with the Russian government to alleviate
the short-term impact,” he said.  Russia, the largest economy outside the WTO, has until July
23 to ratify the protocol for its entry after being invited to
join the organization in December. The nation’s membership, set
to boost economic output by improving  market access  and luring
foreign investment, may also raise costs for manufacturers amid
increasing competition.  International Paper has four pulp and paper mills in
Russia, including one that it owns directly and three held
through a 50-50 venture with local partner  Ilim Holding .  “We feel comfortable with a 50-50 joint venture,” Marx
said in an interview in  St. Petersburg . “Our Russian partners
bring to the table their experience in running a business
locally, while we bring global markets access and expertise in
big projects.”  Mill Upgrades  International Paper will provide half the $1.3 billion
investment that’s earmarked for the Ilim venture’s mill upgrades
in Siberia and northern Russia in 2011 to 2012. The Ilim venture
is set to become Russia’s first producer of coated paper, used
in magazines and catalogs, according to the company.  International Paper produces paper and board for packaging,
news and photo printing, and office supply. While demand for
office paper is falling 2 percent to 3 percent a year in
developed markets following a shift to electronic documents,
consumption is growing in the  emerging markets  including Russia,
where it’s the largest paper producer, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  