-- IRS Says Offshore Tax Disclosures Have Yielded $5 Billion
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-26T21:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/irs-says-offshore-tax-disclosures-have-yielded-5-billion.html
The U.S. has collected more than $5
billion resulting from taxpayers’ disclosures of offshore
accounts, the  Internal Revenue Service  said today.  The IRS also announced new procedures to help some U.S.
taxpayers living abroad catch up on their requirements to file
returns. That includes people who recently learned that they are
subject to the U.S. tax code.  “We’re going to crack down on people who are willfully
hiding assets overseas and not meeting their obligations,”  IRS 
Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  said in a telephone interview
today. “And if there are people who are caught up in this who
we can help get back in the system in a seamless way, then we’re
going to do that.”  Taxpayers with relatively simple returns who owe $1,500 or
less for each of the past few years will be eligible for the
program, which starts Sept. 1.  The IRS announcement recognizes anger building among U.S.
taxpayers around the world because of the government’s
enforcement efforts, said Charles Bruce, tax counsel of  American
Citizens Abroad , an advocacy group.  ‘Lance the Boil’  “They need to lance the boil a bit and let off some of the
bad feelings, so they’re doing something,” said Bruce, who said
the changes don’t go far enough. “This program, the way it
exists and the way it’s slightly amended, is too scary. They’ve
scared away people from getting into compliance and this is
going to continue to scare people.”  Non-resident taxpayers disclosing their information to the
IRS will be required to file three years of past tax returns and
other paperwork showing their account holdings for six years.  The U.S., unlike most other countries, requires its
citizens to pay U.S. taxes on the income they earn around the
world. They can receive tax credits for payments to other
governments.  The IRS news release said some taxpayers have recently
become aware of their obligations. That can happen to people who
didn’t realize that they became U.S. citizens because they were
born in the country.  Such situations are common, said Bruce, mentioning a client
who is a physicist in  Switzerland  and hadn’t been filing the
right paperwork based on her understanding of past conversations
with an embassy official.  H&R Block  “It’s not in their minds, nor is there an  H&R Block (HRB)  around
the corner telling them they have to do this,” said Bruce, who
practices in  Washington  and in Lausanne, Switzerland.  Since 2009, the IRS has run a series of programs
encouraging U.S. taxpayers to declare their foreign accounts.
Participants paid back taxes and penalties and, in many cases,
avoided prosecution.  Taxpayers have made almost 35,000 disclosures since the
voluntary programs began in 2009, Shulman said. As of January,
the IRS had reported receiving $4.4 billion.  Shulman said he thinks the IRS efforts over the past few
years have made it harder for U.S. citizens to find accountants,
lawyers and advisers to help them hide money outside of the
country. The broader goal, he said, is to change the risk
calculus for the next generation of taxpayers.  “I think we’ve put a huge dent in this,” he said.
“There’s still money out there.”  Criminal Cases  Simultaneously, the IRS and the  Justice Department  have
been pursuing criminal cases against U.S. taxpayers with
undeclared assets around the world. In many cases, the U.S. has
used data on promoters, advisers and bankers that it gleaned
from voluntary disclosures.  “We get an incredible amount of information,” Shulman
said.  Also, in 2010, Congress passed a law requiring non-U.S.
financial institutions to provide information to the IRS about
their U.S. accountholders. Major provisions of that law will
take effect in 2013, and some banks and wealth-management firms
around the world have said they are turning away business from
U.S. customers.  The IRS also that the voluntary disclosure program will no
longer be open to to taxpayers who challenge foreign governments
over the disclosure of their information and don’t tell the  U.S.
Department of Justice  as required.  That has been happening in Switzerland, said Barbara Kaplan, an attorney at Greenberg Traurig LLP in  New York .  To discourage taxpayers from waiting as late as possible to
come forward, Shulman said the IRS may close off the voluntary
disclosure option for individual taxpayers after it takes action
relating to their financial institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  