-- Issa Challenges Obama Privilege Claim in Gun Operation
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-06-26T14:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/issa-challenges-obama-privilege-claim-in-gun-operation.html
A U.S. House committee chairman
challenged President  Barack Obama ’s decision to assert executive
privilege over documents related to a federal gun operation.  Documents demanded by lawmakers were produced “between and
among” U.S.  Justice Department  personnel and aren’t subject to
an executive privilege claim, said California Republican  Darrell Issa , chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, in a letter to Obama yesterday.  Executive privilege
only covers communications to and from the president and his
senior advisers, he said.  The U.S. House is preparing to vote on June 28 on holding
Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress over the
gun documents in a law enforcement operation called Fast and
Furious, according to a Republican leadership aide who asked to
speak on condition of anonymity.  Issa has been investigating the operation, which allowed
illegal gun purchases in the U.S. an an effort to link the
weapons to Mexican drug cartels. The U.S. lost track of firearms
and they turned up at crime scenes in  Mexico . Holder has said
that when he learned about the operation, he halted use of the
tactics and asked the Justice Department’s inspector general to
investigate.  Executive privilege is a principle that says the executive
branch can’t be required by Congress to disclose confidential
communications when they would harm the operations of the White
House.  Internal Discussions  The House panel is seeking documents describing internal
Justice Department discussions about a February 2011 letter to
lawmakers that Holder later said mistakenly contained incorrect
information.  The Justice Department says it already has provided more
than 7,600 pages of documents in the case.  The president’s executive privilege assertion is consistent
with executive branch precedent spanning three decades, said
 Eric Schultz , a White House spokesman.  “The courts have routinely considered deliberative process
privilege claims and affirmed the right of the executive branch
to invoke the privilege even when White House documents are not
involved,” Schultz said.  Either Obama and his senior advisers were involved in Fast
and Furious or “you are asserting a presidential power that you
know to be unjustified solely for the purpose of further
obstructing a congressional investigation,” Issa said.  “I remain hopeful that the attorney general will produce
the specified documents so that we can work towards resolving
this matter short of a contempt citation,” Issa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  