-- Italy Allows Paschi to Raise Funds in Bond Sale to State
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i ,   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-06-26T16:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/italy-allows-paschi-to-raise-funds-in-bond-sale-to-state-1-.html
Italy  approved a decree to help
banks boost capital through the sale of bonds to the government,
allowing  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  to raise as much as
2 billion euros ($2.5 billion) using the securities.  The Cabinet approved the measure “so Italy can respect the
commitment made with the European Union to reinforce the banking
industry,” the government said in a statement today. The
decision was made after Monte Paschi informed the  Bank of Italy 
it wasn’t able to meet the 9 percent core Tier 1 capital
requirement of the European Banking Authority, according to the
statement.  The legislation is similar to the decree approved in 2009
that allowed lenders to issue so-called Tremonti bonds, which
were named after then-Treasury Minister  Giulio Tremonti .  Monte Paschi, Italy’s third-largest bank, is among domestic
lenders that must raise capital as part of  Europe ’s plan to end
the sovereign-debt crisis. The Siena-based bank has a capital
shortfall of 3.3 billion euros, according to the EBA, and also
must repay 1.9 billion euros of state aid provided in 2009.
Those bonds will be switched into new securities, bringing the
total amount that can be sold by the bank to 3.9 billion euros.  “The government measure is clearly being done to help
Monte Paschi,” said Angelo Drusiani, who manages about 3
billion euros at Banca Albertini Syz & C. in Milan. “I don’t
think other banks need to apply for these securities to raise
capital.”  Capital Shortfall  Monte Paschi’s board meets today to approve a plan that
includes capital measures to comply with the EBA’s targets. The
lender has already covered more than 2 billion euros of its
capital shortfall through the conversion of hybrid bonds and the
implementation of new internal risk models, Chief Executive
Officer Fabrizio Viola said last month.  The bank has a residual capital shortfall between 1.3
billion euros and 1.7 billion euros, the government said.
Through the sale of bonds to the government it will be able to
have a 9 percent core Tier 1 ratio.  Monte Paschi was one of four lenders that got state aid
under the previous law.  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  received 1.45 billion
euros,  Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl  obtained 500 million euros
and Banca Piccolo Credito Valtellinese Scarl got 200 million
euros.  Monte Paschi fell 5.3 percent to 19.07 cents in Milan
trading today, giving the bank a market value of 2.4 billion
euros. The stock has dropped 24 percent this year, compared with
a 5 percent decline of the  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index .  Monte Paschi’s  first-quarter profit  dropped 61 percent to
54.5 million euros after setting aside more money for bad loans,
it said May 15. Loan-loss provisions in the quarter rose 58
percent to 434 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for t
Chiara Vasarri at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net  