-- James Taylor, Brad Cooper Lead Summer Berkshires Exodus
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-06-26T18:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/james-taylor-brad-cooper-lead-summer-berkshires-exodus.html
The Ted Shawn Theatre at  Jacob’s
Pillow Dance Festival  in Becket,  Massachusetts , looks like a
barn, with large sliding doors at the back of the stage. They
tend to part for marvels.  They were open five years ago, when I saw Alvin Ailey
perform an excerpt from “Revelations.” Dancers in flowing
white costumes raised their arms toward the tall trees.  At this year’s June gala, marking the Pillow’s 80th
anniversary as the signal place where modern dance goes for
summer re-creation,  American Ballet Theatre  and  Bolshoi Ballet 
star David Hallberg danced against that same leafy backdrop.  Bare chested, with his blonde hair glowing in warm pink
sunlight, Hallberg twisted and turned in a black ruffled skirt.
The Spanish choreographer Nacho Duato had given him a flamenco
challenge.  “I’ve never danced in a big skirt like that, and I’ve
never danced in a place that was inside and outside,” Hallberg
said later that night. “It’s very freeing. That’s why I come to
the Pillow, to go beyond my everyday experiences.”  For artists as much as for audiences, the Berkshires in
western Massachusetts offer opportunities to stretch. Something
about the arcadian setting of forest, mountains and lakes
invites the abundance of visual and performing artists and
patrons looking for high culture in informal settings.  Tanglewood 75  That’s the feeling in Becket, where Hallberg returns August
1-5, as well as in nearby Lenox, home of the  Boston Symphony
Orchestra ’s summer headquarters, Tanglewood. Musicians from
 James Taylor  to Yo-Yo Ma preside over concerts in the shed and
Ozawa Hall throughout the 75th season, which begins July 6 with
a Beethoven program conducted by Christoph von Dohnanyi.  On stage, the  Berkshire Theatre Group  is presenting
revivals of “A Chorus Line” and “A Class Act” (the
biomusical about “Chorus Line” lyricist Ed Kleban). The
 Barrington Stage Company  has a play about the life of Dr. Ruth Westheimer.  “We’ve got  Bradley Cooper !” Matt Harris, a partner and
founder of early stage venture capital firm Village Ventures
said, promoting the  Williamstown Theatre Festival  he chairs:
Cooper, the actor from “The Hangover,” will star in the
festival’s production of “The Elephant Man” from July 25 to
August 5.  Meet Artists  Chances are he and other actors will be spotted getting a
coffee at Tunnel on Spring Street, or running lines on one of
the lawns at  Williams College . Part of the fun of culture staged
in country towns is getting close to the artists.  Sometimes that allows for a conversation that puts things
in perspective. Waiting for the Wagyu steak at the Jacob’s
Pillow gala dinner, dancer and choreographer Jomar Mesquita
talked about how the growth in the Brazilian economy has
strained the finances of his dance company, Mimulus.  The rent on the company’s studios in the Prado section of
the city of  Belo Horizonte  has increased to $2,000 a month from
$800 a month in the past two years, even as government funding
decreased.  “The country is more interested in soccer than dance,”
Mesquita said, referring to the push to build facilities for the
 World Cup  in 2014. Those construction projects have ripped up
roads and reduced parking around Mimulus’s studios. As a result,
enrollment is down at the company’s school.  Pillow Debut  Like many international dance companies, Mimulus had its
U.S. debut at Jacob’s Pillow. It is a refuge for them, as well
as for the weary financier who works a few-hours-drive away.  “The Berkshires is full of interesting people and you
essentially never talk about business,” said Hans Morris,
managing director at General Atlantic LLC.  You never know where you’ll find a titan of finance. In a
gallery at  MASS MoCA , in North Adams, rests a log with the name
“ Steven A. Cohen ” carved into it, referring to the hedge fund
manager and art collector.  And then there is the use of logs at the  Dream Away Lodge ,
in Becket. On a recent Saturday night the group sitting around
the bonfire was serenaded by a banjo player.  Jacob’s Pillow is at 358 George Carter Rd., Becket.
Information: +1-413-243-9919,  http://www.jacobspillow.org .  Tanglewood is at 297 West St., Lenox. Information: +1-413-
637-1600;  http://www.tanglewood.org   “A Chorus Line” is at the Colonial Theatre, 111 South
St., Pittsfield. “A Class Act” begins July 10 at the Unicorn
Theatre, 6 East St., Stockbridge. Information on both shows: +1-
413-298-5576;  http://www.berkshiretheatregroup.org .  Barrington Stage Company is at 30 Union St., Pittsfield.
Information: +1-413-236-8888;  http://www.barringtonstageco.org .  The Williamstown Theatre Festival is at 1000 Main St.,
Williamstown. Information: +1-413-597-3400;
 http://www.wtfestival.org .  Other Muse highlights include Jeffrey Burke on  books  and
 Richard Vines  on restaurants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  