-- Noda Victory on Japan Sales Tax Law Risks Party Majority
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-06-27T04:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/japan-lower-house-passes-sales-tax-bill-as-noda-faces-dpj-split.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s biggest step yet toward winning a  sales tax  increase
aimed at reining in the nation’s public debt came at the cost of
alienating one-fifth of his party’s lower house lawmakers.  While the chamber yesterday approved legislation to double
the 5 percent levy by October 2015, 57 lawmakers in the ruling
 Democratic Party  of  Japan  voted no, and former DPJ leader  Ichiro Ozawa  signaled he may leave. If he takes more than 50 followers
with him, it could endanger the party’s majority.  Noda, who called the rebellion “unfortunate,” now must
hold together a deal with the opposition  Liberal Democratic
Party  to win passage for the bill in the upper house. With the
Diet session extended until Sept. 8, weeks of wrangling may be
in store for a country that has seen six leaders since 2006.  “Noda got the bill passed, which is what he wanted, but it
came at a very high price,” said  Koichi Nakano , a political
science professor at  Sophia University  in Tokyo. “Now he has to
decide whether to play hardball and expel the rebels, which
could imperil the bill, or try to be more conciliatory and buy
some time.”  Under the bill, the  consumption tax  will rise to 8 percent
in April 2014 and to 10 percent in October 2015. The measure
passed by a vote of 363-96. The DPJ has 289 members in the 480-
seat chamber.  Stocks swung between gains and losses today after the vote,
with the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  up 0.3 percent at 1:21 p.m. in
Tokyo. Japan’s benchmark 10-year yield was 0.805 percent, having
reached a nine-year low of 0.79 percent on June 4. The yen was
trading at 79.48 to the dollar, having strengthened more than 5
percent since mid-March.  ‘First Step’  “We have taken a big first step toward reform, both for
the sake of present-day Japanese and for future generations,”
Noda told reporters yesterday in  Tokyo . Those who voted no will
be dealt with “strictly, according to party rules,” he said.  DPJ Secretary-General Azuma Koshiishi said he would deal
with the situation “calmly.”  Ozawa and his backers argued the bill breaches the platform
on which the party took power in 2009 after the LDP’s half-
century of rule, and may discourage consumers from spending and
fail in its aim of boosting  tax revenue .  Ozawa told reporters that he will make “a final effort”
to work within the DPJ. While he was the engineer of the party’s
2009 victory, since then he has denounced the party’s cutbacks
on child-rearing subsidies and last year supported a no-
confidence motion against Noda’s predecessor,  Naoto Kan .  ‘Every Effort’  “I believe we are very close to a general election, so we
can’t waste time,” he said at a press conference. “I will make
every effort, but in any case I will have to decide what to do
in the near future.”  Passage in the upper house is likely thanks to backing by
the LDP and New Komeito party. Noda has vowed to stake his
political career on boosting the levy to rein in ballooning debt
and soaring welfare costs.  His defiance of Ozawa and this month’s decision to take the
publicly unpopular step of restarting two atomic reactors shut
down after last year’s nuclear disaster may boost his leadership
credentials, analysts including Jun Okumura said.  “As a prime minister you want to get things done and Noda
is getting things done,” said Okumura, a senior adviser for the
Eurasia Group consulting firm in Tokyo and a former trade
ministry official. “He’s done a pretty good job of setting
priorities and sticking to them. The next question is will Ozawa
stay in the party or bolt, but many in the DPJ will be happy to
see him leave.”  Credit Rating  The  International Monetary Fund  and the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development have both urged Japan to be
more aggressive in tackling a debt that the OECD predicts will
reach 223 percent of gross domestic product next year.  Fitch Ratings  cut the country’s sovereign-credit rating in
May, citing a “leisurely” approach to shoring up its finances.
 Andrew Colquhoun , Hong Kong-based head of Fitch’s Asia Pacific
sovereign ratings, said the tax bill remains subject to
political risk and the outlook on Japan’s credit rating remains
negative.  Raising the sales tax should be a “top priority” and
reducing the public debt burden is “essential,” the OECD said
last month in a report. Delays in restoring the fiscal health of
the world’s third-largest economy could risk a run-up in
government borrowing costs, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  