-- Japan Stocks Decline of Euro Summit, Consumption Tax Vote
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-06-26T06:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/japan-stocks-decline-of-euro-summit-consumption-tax-vote.html
Japanese  stocks  fell a third day on
concern European leaders will fail to come up with a solution to
the debt crisis at a summit this week and before Japan’s
lawmakers today voted on a consumption tax increase. The bill
passed the lower house of parliament after close of market.  Makita (6986)  Corp., a power-tool maker that gets almost half its
sales in Europe, lost 2.1 percent.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  slid 1.5
percent after a Chinese official said the government has no
imminent plans to subsidize car purchases.  Nippon Electric Glass (5214) 
Co. sank 7.8 percent after saying it won’t earn any profit in
the first quarter.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.8 percent to 8,663.99 at
the 3 p.m. close in  Tokyo . The broader Topix lost 0.9 percent to
738.89, with about two shares dropping for each that gained.
Stocks also fell on a Sankei newspaper report that former
 Democratic Party  of Japan leader Ichiro Ozawa may establish a
new party to oppose doubling the 5 percent sales tax.  “Raising the tax will cool domestic demand, forcing the
economy to depend more on overseas sales,” said  Kiyoshi
Ishigane , a Tokyo-based strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $70 billion. “Germany is
resisting euro-area debt sharing, adding to uncertainty in
Europe and making investors more inclined to sell shares.”  The legislation now moves to the opposition-controlled
upper house, where passage is likely thanks to backing by the
main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  and New Komeito party.
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  is struggling to overcome
resistance within the DPJ and has vowed to stake his political
career on boosting the levy to rein in record debt and soaring
welfare costs in a country with the world’s oldest population.  Hardened Resistance  Stocks fell after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  hardened her
resistance to euro-area debt sharing, setting  Germany  on a
collision course with its partners at the summit starting on
June 28. In other signs the crisis is worsening, Cyprus said it
will seek a lifeline from the euro area’s firewall funds.  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday downgraded 28 Spanish
banks, citing the country’s sovereign debt and rising losses on
real estate loans. The New York-based rating company also cut
ratings of 16 Spanish lenders on May 17.  Makita declined 2.1 percent to 2,720 yen. Nippon Sheet
Glass Co., which gets almost 40 percent of its sales in Europe,
sank 4.5 percent to 85 yen.  “There’s increasing concern that the EU summit won’t work
out concrete measures to overcome the debt crisis,” said
Fumiyuki Nakanishi, a strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend
Securities Co. “There has been no change in Germany’s
resistance to euro-zone debt sharing  The  Topix (MXAP)  has fallen 15 percent from its peak on March 27
on concern the debt crisis is spreading and as growth in the U.S.
and China slows. Stocks on the gauge are valued at 0.87 times
book value, with a number below one meaning a company can be
bought for less than the value of its assets.  Carmakers Drop  Carmakers declined after a Chinese official said the
government has no imminent plans to introduce more stimulus
policies to help revive vehicle demand in the world’s biggest
auto market. Honda slipped 1.5 percent to 2,620 yen. Toyota
Motor Corp., Asia’s biggest carmaker, slid 1.1 percent to 3,045
yen.  Nippon Electric Glass tumbled 7.8 percent to 448 yen, the
most on the Nikkei 225, after cutting its net-income projection
to breakeven in the quarter ending June 30 on a drop in the
value of investment securities. The glassmaker had earlier
forecast a profit of 500 million yen to 3.5 billion yen ($6.3
million to $44 million).  Among advancing stocks,  Takashimaya Co. (8233)  gained the most in
the Nikkei 225, rising 2.6 percent to 590 yen after posting a 69
percent surge in first-quarter operating profit to 5.88 billion
yen on rising revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  