-- Jive CEO Says Microsoft-Yammer Deal Has Clients Defecting
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-06-26T20:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/jive-ceo-says-microsoft-yammer-deal-has-clients-defecting.html
Jive Software Inc. (JIVE)  Chief Executive
Officer Tony Zingale said the number of calls he’s received from
concerned Yammer Inc. customers has picked up in the two weeks
since reports surfaced that  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. would buy his rival.  Like Yammer, Jive provides social-networking software for
businesses, helping employees communicate with one another and
collaborate on projects. Jive is older, bigger and still
independent, while Yammer is now plagued by Microsoft’s struggle
to build social products, Zingale said.  Microsoft said yesterday that it’s buying Yammer for $1.2
billion, 12 days after Bloomberg News and other outlets reported
that an agreement was in the works. Zingale said the pace of
inquiries from Yammer clients has increased as details of the
Microsoft deal have been publicized. He’s now considering ways
to capitalize on that interest by possibly offering incentives
for Yammer users to make the switch.  “Clearly if the momentum in these kinds of calls pick up,
we’ll structure something formally and offer it publicly to
Yammer customers,” Zingale said. “Not everybody is a huge
Microsoft fan.”  Jive rose 6 percent to $20.93 at the close in  New York ,
valuing the  Palo Alto , California-based company at $1.29
billion, just above what Microsoft is paying for Yammer. Jive
has jumped 74 percent since the 11-year-old company sold shares
to the public in December.  Joining Office  Yammer, based in San Francisco, will join Microsoft’s
Office division, with its corporate micro-blogging tools being
added to the SharePoint, Office 365 and Skype products. The
Office division will report to Yammer CEO David Sacks, who
founded the startup in 2008.  “We are not surprised that competitors are taking note of
the deal because it offers greater choice and flexibility,”
said Rich Adolph, a Microsoft spokesman. “Initial feedback from
our customers has been enthusiastic.”  Yammer’s more than 200,000 customers include  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , EBay Inc. and LG Electronics Inc. The bulk of its clients
use a free product, with 19 percent paying for the premium
version, according to a May 14 report from BMO Capital Markets,
comparing Jive and Yammer. Jive said in May that first-quarter
revenue climbed 58 percent to $25.3 million, which is more than
Yammer’s annual sales, BMO estimates.  “Jive and Yammer are at very different points in their
evolution,” Karl Keirstead, a BMO analyst, wrote in the report.  Still, Zingale acknowledges that the acquisition may cause
some prospective Jive customers to hold off until they see how
Microsoft integrates Yammer. While Jive’s product works with
SharePoint, there may be some people “hoping that Yammer-
SharePoint might deliver something down the road,” he said.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington ,  rose  less than 1
percent to $30.02. The stock has gained 24 percent in the past
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  