-- John Lewis Says Online Growth Means Retailers Need Fewer Stores
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-06-26T12:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/john-lewis-says-online-growth-means-retailers-need-fewer-stores.html
John Lewis  Partnership Plc said the
growth of online retailing means U.K. retailers need no more
than 70 stores to gain nationwide coverage amid a tough economy.  John Lewis, which owns 36 department stores and gets about
a quarter of sales online, will have “many less” outlets than
it had envisaged five or six years ago, Andy Street, managing
director of the chain, said in a speech at the British Retail
Consortium Symposium in London.  “We believe that national coverage for an online retailer
in 2020 is no more than about 60 or 70 shops,” he said. “The
days for needing 200 to cover the U.K. are clearly history.”  Dixons Retail Plc, (DXNS)  the U.K.’s largest electronics retailer,
said last week that it planned to reduce U.K. store numbers to
about 400 from 557, including only about 40 in city centers, as
it integrates its store-based and Internet businesses. Companies
including  Home Retail Group Plc’s (HOME)  Argos chain are also reducing
store numbers, while ramping up their online presence.  “It’s all about clicks and bricks together,” Street said.
Online sales at John Lewis are growing at an annual pace of
about 40 percent, the executive said.  John Lewis plans to develop three formats, including a new
chain of smaller department stores, the first of which is due to
open in Exeter, southwest  England , Street said. The retailer
will also add home-furnishing outlets, where shoppers can
collect orders placed online for items not necessarily sold in
the store. It will open fewer of its full-line department
stores, or “regional flagships,” Street said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  