-- King Is Pessimistic on Euro Crisis as Global Economy Teeters
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-26T12:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/king-pessimistic-on-euro-area-crisis-as-global-economy-teeters.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said his vote for more stimulus this month reflected his worries
about a deteriorating global economic outlook at a time when
he’s pessimistic that Europe’s debt crisis can be resolved.  “What’s concerned me in the last several months, and why I
voted for easing in policy, is the worsening in the position in
 Asia  and other  emerging markets ,” King told lawmakers in London
today. Another reason is that “my colleagues in the U.S. are
more concerned than they were at the beginning of the year about
what’s happening in the American economy. It’s not a comfortable
position,” he said.  King was defeated at this month’s policy meeting in a push
to expand the bank’s  bond-purchase program  by 50 billion pounds
($78 billion) to 375 billion pounds, with a majority on the
panel preferring no change. In the last six weeks, investor
concern grew that a Greek election result may lead to its
expulsion from the euro, while  Spain  asked for a bailout.  “I’m very struck by how much has changed” since the bank
published forecasts on May 16, King said. “I am pessimistic,
and I am particularly concerned because for two years now we’ve
seen the situation in the euro area get worse, the problems have
been pushed down the road.”  Global Economy  European leaders will this week hold their 19th summit to
address the region’s sovereign debt crisis since it started in
early 2010. Four officials led by European Union President
Herman Van Rompuy today released a road map to a fiscal and
banking union that ran into immediate criticism from  Germany  for
placing too little emphasis on controlling national budgets.  The turmoil in  Europe  has been compounded by signs of
slowing growth in the U.S. and in Asia. Federal Reserve policy
makers last week cut their growth forecasts for the world’s
largest economy. Chinese manufacturing may have shrunk for an
eighth month in June, according to a June 21 report.  King, who retires in a year, said the Bank of England can
respond by adding to its gilt purchases and that there is “no
immediate limit or restraint on that.” HSBC Holdings Plc and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are among banks forecasting an
expansion of the Bank of England’s bond program next month.  Credit Boost  The central bank’s chief economist,  Spencer Dale , said he’d
favor measures to increase credit. King announced a program with
the U.K. Treasury earlier this month to boost lending. He said
today there must be discussions with the European Commission on
the plan before publishing details.  “Were the economy to require additional stimulus, I would
like to explore the possibility that some of that support be
provided by measures designed to improve the flow of bank
credit,” Dale said in his annual report, published today. This
“has the potential to bolster the supply side of the economy as
well as demand.”  Policy maker  David Miles , who voted with King to expand QE
this month, said he would favor that over cutting the benchmark
 interest rate  as the latter’s possible impact was “ambiguous.”  “It wasn’t clear that it would do what we wanted it to,”
he said. “In contrast, quantitative easing, the direction that
would push the economy in is less ambiguous. I remain of the
view that buying more assets would ease conditions.”  King told the cross-party panel of lawmakers that the world
economy still has some way to go before it is through the global
financial crisis that began in 2007.  “If you asked any of us in the bank, I don’t think any of
us would have thought we would still be right in the thick of it
five years later,” he said. “I don’t think we’re yet halfway
through it.”  King also said that no country can expect to escape the
crisis by itself and that it will take a “great deal of
international cooperation.”  “It’s very striking our colleagues in the U.S. spend so
much time worrying about developments in the euro area,” he
said. “They realize that given the interconnectedness, both
through trade but also through banking, that no one country,
even one as important as the U.S., can make itself immune from
trouble if there is a real difficultly in Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  