-- KKR Raises $4 Billion for Deals in Infrastructure, Energy
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-06-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/kkr-raises-4-billion-for-deals-in-infrastructure-energy.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm
run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , has gathered about $4
billion to invest in infrastructure and energy deals as the firm
looks beyond corporate takeovers.  KKR completed raising about $1 billion for infrastructure
investments and $1.25 billion for natural resources, the New
York-based firm said today in a statement. That’s combined with
$1.3 billion in separate accounts for infrastructure, and $350
million for natural resources contributed by affiliates of KKR.  The firm and competitors  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Carlyle
Group (CG)  are raising money for investments outside of traditional
leveraged buyouts as those deals remain elusive. LBOs dried up
when the 2008 financial crisis froze credit markets, and
private-equity firms have since moved to diversify by adding
businesses that produce steadier income streams.  “These funds, which target attractive opportunities
outside of the private-equity arena, benefit from our global
footprint, extensive and deep resources and strong track record
of investing in this space,” Marc Lipschultz, global head of
the firm’s energy and infrastructure business, said in the
statement.  KKR already has bought $950 million of oil and gas
properties, including some in  Texas  and  Louisiana  sold by
companies seeking to fund their own investments in areas such as
shale exploration.  Announced private-equity deals this year have dropped 37
percent from the same period in 2011 to about $153.3 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Energy Roots  Created in 1976 by Kravis, Roberts and Jerome Kohlberg, KKR
has roots in energy deals dating back more than two decades.
Kravis and Roberts, who are cousins, had family in the natural-
resources industry and grew up in Oklahoma and Texas,
respectively.  KKR also has participated in some of the largest LBOs ever,
including the 2007 takeover, with TPG Capital, of power producer
TXU Corp., the biggest such deal. KKR has written the value of
TXU, now called Energy Future Holdings, down to about 5 cents on
the dollar, as of its most recent earnings report. Energy Future
has reported five consecutive  quarterly losses  as wholesale
electricity prices dropped along with natural  gas prices ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  KKR has countered Energy Future’s declines with bets on
natural gas and other energy investments. The firm last year
bought Samson Investment Co., which owns interests in more than
10,000 oil and gas wells. At $7.2 billion, the Samson deal was
the biggest buyout in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Alternative Power  Last year, KKR and Hilcorp Energy Co. agreed to sell oil
and gas leases in southern Texas to  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  for $3.5
billion. The deal almost tripled the value of KKR’s $400 million
investment in a year.  In infrastructure, KKR is seeking to seize on public and
private assets in need of repair as well as alternative-energy
efforts. That fund has invested in a French wind-power business
and Saba Infraestructuras, a car park operator. Before the fund
was formed, KKR bought a 23 percent stake in Colonial Pipeline
Co., a deal completed in October 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  