-- Kvitova Wins at Wimbledon as Williams, Nadal Earn Victories
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-06-26T20:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/kvitova-starts-wimbledon-defense-with-win-over-amanmuradova.html
Petra Kvitova overcame her nerves to
start the defense of her Wimbledon tennis title with a win
against Akgul Amanmuradova.  Four-time champion Serena Williams won to advance to the
second round, and second seed  Victoria Azarenka  beat American
Irina Falconi. French Open title holder Rafael Nadal pushed
through a slow start to defeat Brazil’s Thomaz Bellucci, while
fourth-seeded  Andy Murray  eased past Russia’s Nikolay Davydenko.  Fourth-seeded Kvitova of the  Czech Republic  won 6-4, 6-4
against Amanmuradova, who is ranked 96th in the world and is
from Uzbekistan, on Centre Court at the All England Club in
southwest  London .  “In the beginning, I was so nervous,” Kvitova said in a
televised interview. “It was my first match on the grass here.
I had many mistakes, but then I tried to play my game and go
forward.”  Watched by her parents from the royal box, Kvitova trailed
4-1 before turning things around against Amanmuradova, who’s
never won at Wimbledon in five attempts. Kvitova, one of 11
Grand Slam champions in the women’s draw, clenched her fist as
she took the first set.  The left-hander, the only player in the women’s top 10 yet
to reach a final this season, broke serve in the opening game of
the second set. Kvitova wasted a match point at 5-3 and then had
to wait through a 28-minute rain suspension before finishing off
the match.  It was the first of two times today that rain forced play
to stop. An evening downpour caused the second disruption, and
play could not resume because of darkness.  Williams Wins  Playing on Court 2, Williams was never in trouble against
Barbora Zahlavova Strycova, who has not beaten a top-10 player
in 21 matches. The American, who won the last of her 13 major
singles championships at Wimbledon in 2010, beat the Czech 6-2,
6-4, producing 24 winners.  Yesterday, Serena’s sister and five-time champion  Venus Williams  was knocked out in the first round by Russia’s Elena Vesnina, her earliest loss on the London grass since 1997.
 Serena Williams  is now 47-1 in Grand Slam opening rounds. Her
only defeat in the first round of a major came last month at
 Roland Garros  in Paris, when she lost to France’s Virginie Razzano.  Nadal lost the first four games of his match against fellow
left-hander Bellucci before capturing the first set in a
tiebreaker and going on to win 7-6 (7-0), 6-2, 6-3 on Centre
Court.  “I was a little bit unlucky at the start of the match,”
Nadal said in a televised interview. “He had a few good serves,
and after that I had more mistakes than usual.”  The 26-year-old Spaniard, a two-time Wimbledon champion,
made 27 unforced errors, compared with 16 for Bellucci.  Murray, the No. 4 seed from Britain, defeated Davydenko
6-1, 6-1, 6-4 as he began his annual bid to become the first
British man since  Fred Perry  in 1936 to win on the London grass
courts.  ‘Good Start’  “The first two sets were very good,” Murray said in a
televised interview. “I got off to a great start, and then
relaxed.”  Azarenka, the Australian Open champion, defeated the 22-
year-old Falconi 6-1, 6-4. The American is now 0-6 against
players in the top 10.  The Belarussian, 22, reached the semifinal last year, where
she lost to Kvitova. Azarenka trails  Maria Sharapova  in the
women’s rankings, and has a chance to regain the top spot should
she reach the quarterfinals and other results go her way.  American Men  Americans  Mardy Fish  and  Brian Baker  advanced to the second
round. Fish is playing in his first tournament since a May 23
heart procedure.  France’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga beat 2002 champion  Lleyton Hewitt  of Australia 6-3, 6-4, 6-4. Tsonga reached the semifinals
last year by becoming the first player to come back from two
sets down to defeat  Roger Federer .  Losses by Hewitt,  Bernard Tomic  and Matt Ebden mean there
are no Australian men in the second round of Wimbledon for the
first time since 1938.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  