-- Natural-Gas Cars Can Drive Us Toward a Better Economy
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-06-26T22:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/natural-gas-cars-can-drive-us-toward-a-better-economy.html
Armenia  is not generally known as a
world leader, but it holds at least one record: Seventy-five
percent of its cars and trucks run on natural gas.  In the U.S., in contrast, the share is well under 0.1
percent -- even though natural-gas prices have plummeted here
over the past few years. Given the problems associated with U.S.
dependence on oil, more use of natural gas for transportation
could carry big benefits.  One of the most important of these would be macroeconomic.
Switching to natural-gas vehicles would reduce our vulnerability
to oil-price shocks, as Christopher Knittel, a professor of
energy economics at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ,
argues in a  new paper  for the Hamilton Project. That benefit
alone could amount to between $850 (for sedans) and $18,500 (for
heavy-duty trucks) for each vehicle converted.  More natural-gas cars and trucks could also, if managed
well, reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and other pollutants (more
on that below). The bottom line is that the U.S. would be much
better off with a wider choice of transportation fuels.  Converting to natural-gas vehicles requires several changes
but, as Floyd Norris of the  New York  Times has recently  pointed
out , the most elemental involves filling stations. There are
fewer than 2,000 natural-gas  stations  across the country -- a
fraction of the 120,000 that offer gasoline. This makes people
and companies reluctant to shift to the new vehicles. At the
same time, the dearth of natural-gas vehicles on the road makes
fuel companies reluctant to build the stations they need.  Ready Legislation  A measure recently considered in Congress, the New
Alternative Transportation to Give Americans Solutions Act, is
aimed at this chicken-and-egg problem. It would, among other
things, provide a 50 percent tax credit, up to a maximum of
$100,000, for installing natural-gas filling stations and also
encourage people and companies to buy more natural-gas vehicles.  The Natgas Act is a rare piece of legislation these days --
it would not only address an important problem but do so
sensibly, with bipartisan backing. (It is languishing in
Congress partly because other industries that benefit from low
natural-gas prices oppose it; they don’t want transportation
competing for the resource.) Still, given the potential benefits
for  energy policy  and the economy, the Natgas Act should be even
more ambitious.  To provide a forceful incentive to create the needed
filling stations, the federal government could provide an 80
percent tax credit, up to a maximum of $250,000, for additions
to existing stations and $2 million for new stand-alone
facilities, for the first 20,000 natural-gas stations built over
the next three years. This would be the Natgas Act on steroids.  It would make sense for many of the new facilities to be
along national highways, to service long-haul trucks. (United
Parcel Service Inc. is already trying to provide fueling for
natural-gas trucks in the Los Angeles-Las Vegas corridor.)  Assuming that half of the eligible 20,000 stations were
add-ons to existing facilities and half were new ones, the
maximum cost to the government over the next three years would
be $22.5 billion, or about $7 billion a year. Twenty percent
cost sharing for station builders would be high enough to force
them to optimize locations and not build stations that have
little or no economic value, yet still low enough to encourage
construction.  In exchange for that $7 billion a year or less, we would
get a network of stations sufficient to make natural-gas
vehicles a feasible alternative, while also putting more people
back to work. It would be an economic stimulus today that would
build a macroeconomic hedge for tomorrow.  More Strategies  If that seems too ambitious -- we often seem to be living
in an era of meekness in public policy -- Knittel has other good
suggestions. He would, for one, encourage home fueling by
requiring natural-gas distribution companies to sell to
individual customers for their cars at low rates. And he would
allow those companies to include in their regulated rate bases
the cost of building new filling stations.  What about the environmental benefits of switching to
natural-gas vehicles? Such cars and trucks emit perhaps 25
percent less  greenhouse gases  than petroleum vehicles do. That
comparison, however, has to do only with the vehicles’ operation
-- and not how the fuel is obtained in the first place.  As  Fred Krupp  of the Environmental Defense Fund has
underscored, methane leakage from gas production may be large
enough that its net impact on the climate is negative for many
years. Methane, the principal component of natural gas, is an
extraordinarily powerful greenhouse gas. It dissipates faster
than carbon dioxide, however, so the climate effects depend on
the time horizon.  A recent  article  in the Proceedings of the  National Academy
of Sciences  concluded that, given current leakage rates of
methane in the production of natural gas, vehicles that run on
the fuel “are not a viable mitigation strategy for  climate
change .” It estimated that converting from gasoline to natural-
gas vehicles would adversely affect the climate for at least 80
years, and switching from heavy-duty diesel vehicles would
exacerbate greenhouse-gas effects for 300 years.  Methane leakage would have to be reduced to 1 percent to
1.6 percent to make natural-gas conversions beneficial for the
climate over the next few decades, the same study found.
Estimates of current leakage are debated, but they are very
likely much larger than the break-even rates. The Environmental
Protection Agency recently announced regulations that will
indirectly lead to lower methane emissions from shale gas
production. It is worth exploring more efficient approaches
(potentially even a permit-trading system) to reduce methane
leakage as natural gas is produced and transported.  With a bold incentive for more natural-gas filling
stations, we could put more people to work today and might one
day even catch up to Armenia on natural-gas vehicles. And with
more effort to plug methane leaks, we could be confident about
helping the climate along the way.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Supreme Court’s Montana
decision  and the  limits of Italy’s technocracy ; Clive Crook on
U.S.  health care’s overheated politics ;  Edward Glaeser  on the
 troubling history of federal mandates ; Vali Nasr on what
 Pakistan tells us about Egypt ; Richard J. Carroll on why a
president’s economic performance  depends on his predecessor’s
record ; John C. Dugan and T. Timothy Ryan Jr. on why the Dodd-
Frank law  puts to rest “too big to fail .”  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  