-- NBC Agrees to 10-Year Extension to Show Cycling’s Tour de France
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-06-26T16:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/nbc-agrees-to-10-year-extension-to-show-cycling-s-tour-de-france.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Sports Group
signed a new 10-year agreement for coverage of the Tour de
France race and will air live stages of cycling’s premier event
on its NBC network for the first time, beginning next weekend.  The agreement with the Amaury Sport Organisation, the
race’s owner, begins with the 2014 race and runs through 2023.
It includes all U.S. television, digital and mobile rights.
Financial terms of the agreement weren’t disclosed by NBC.
France Television pays 24 million euros ($30 million) a year to
show the Tour de France and other sports events managed by
Amaury Sport Organisation, according to a statement by the
French public broadcaster.  In addition to cable coverage on NBC Sports Network, two
complete live stages of the race will air on U.S. network
television for the first time, beginning this year. On July 7
and July 8, the race’s 7th and 8th stages will be carried from 8
a.m. New York time to noon on NBC,  Jon Miller , president of
programming for NBC Sports and NBC Sports Network, said in a
telephone interview.  “We’ve noticed a continuing interest in cycling in the
U.S. and the ratings for this event have been strong,” Miller
said. “Our sponsors like it. We’re finding a real strong
audience for this race and this sport.”  Broadcast advertising for the race is 85 percent sold out,
Adam Freifeld, a spokesman for NBC Sports Group said in a
telephone interview. Advertisers include  Anheuser-Busch InBev (BUD) 
NV,  Radio Shack Corp. (RSH) ,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ,  General Motor Co. (GM) ’s
Cadillac brand, and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , Freifeld said.  All Stages  All 21 stages of the race, which will be held this year
from June 30 through July 22, will be carried live on the NBC
Sports Network. The race’s final stage on July 22 will be shown
during a condensed two-hour special on NBC after airing in its
entirety on NBC Sports Network in the morning, Miller said.  As part of the agreement, NBC Sports Group will continue
coverage of Amaury Sport Organisation’s other events, including
the Paris Marathon, and cycling events such as Paris-Nice,
Criterium du Dauphine and Paris-Roubaix.  “We are very happy to see the  Tour de France  exposure
growing in the United States,” Yann le Moenner, managing
director of Paris-based Amaury Sport, which runs the Tour, said
in an statement. Amaury Sport’s other events “will benefit from
a large exposure” on NBC Sports Group platforms, Moenner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  