-- News Corp. Rising 32% With News-Entertainment Breakup: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-06-27T20:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/news-corp-rising-32-with-news-entertainment-breakup-real-m-a.html
By taking the entertainment out of
the news,  Rupert Murdoch  can boost returns for News Corp.
shareholders by at least 32 percent.  News Corp., run by the 81-year-old Murdoch, said it is
considering splitting the $53 billion media company. Murdoch is
overseeing talks on whether to separate the Fox cable networks,
television and movie businesses from publishing, which contains
the Wall Street Journal and HarperCollins, people familiar with
the situation said. After rising 8.3 percent on the news, News
Corp. is still valued at an almost 10 percent  discount  to media
stocks versus earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While phone-hacking revelations at its U.K. newspapers
thwarted Murdoch’s plan to take over  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc (BSY)  and regulators are considering whether  News Corp. (NWSA) 
should be allowed to keep its investment in Britain’s biggest
pay-TV operator, the company is worth $70 billion to $77 billion
by valuing its businesses separately, according to Gabelli & Co.
and BMO Capital Markets. The entertainment units could command
as much as News Corp.’s current market value, Gabelli said.  “News Corp. is cheap,” Brett Harriss, an analyst for
Gabelli in Rye, New York, said in a telephone interview. Gabelli
is a unit of Gamco Investors Inc., which oversees about $37
billion and held News Corp. stock as of March 31. A breakup
could increase “value by separating out the ‘old, bad’ business
from what’s seen as the good businesses.”  Today, News Corp. rose to the highest price since October
2007, adding 2.5 percent to $22.31 a share.  Tabloid Scandal  Dan Berger, a spokesman for New York-based News Corp.,
declined to comment beyond the company’s statement on June 26.  In it, News Corp. said it is considering separating itself
into two publicly traded companies, without saying how it would
be divided. The talks to separate News Corp. are at a late
stage, according to one of the people familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be identified because a decision isn’t final.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey  said in February that
executives discussed a breakup following the U.K. scandal where
tabloid journalists hacked into the phones of politicians and
celebrities for exclusive stories.  Police probes led to more than 50 arrests, including former
News of the World editors Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson , once
the communications chief of U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron .
News Corp. closed the Sunday tabloid in July last year and later
replaced it with a Sunday edition of the weekly Sun tabloid.  ‘Material Influence’  The potential split of the company also comes as U.K.
regulator Ofcom considers whether News Corp. should be allowed
to keep its  39 percent  stake in BSkyB, which was led by
Murdoch’s son James for almost a decade.  Ofcom, which has said News Corp.’s holding gives it
“material influence” over BSkyB, is probing whether News Corp.
and its directors are fit to hold a broadcasting license.  A U.K. committee, after investigating whether News Corp.
misled Parliament in the phone-hacking scandal, said last month
that Murdoch is “not a fit person to exercise the stewardship
of a major international company.”  Reports of a possible breakup pushed News Corp. to its
 biggest gain  in almost a year yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Even with the gain, News Corp. is valued at 14.9
times earnings, versus 16.4 times for the  Bloomberg World Media
Index. (BWMEDA)  Since the scandal broke last year, News Corp. has traded
at a discount of as much as 25 percent to its media rivals.  One reason that News Corp. doesn’t command a higher
valuation is because growth at its publishing unit has lagged
behind the rest of the company, according to Marci Ryvicker, a
New York-based analyst for Wells Fargo & Co.  Newspaper Sales  Revenue from the publishing division, which includes
businesses from newspapers to advertising, rose less than 1
percent in the past three years. Sales from News Corp.’s
television, movies and satellite businesses combined climbed 10
percent in that span, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The publishing unit also generated 13 percent of the
company’s $5.5 billion of  operating income  in the past year,
even after accounting for a quarter of News Corp.’s $34.3
billion of revenue, the data show.  “There’s more value in core News Corp. without the
publishing assets,” Ryvicker said. “Newspapers in general have
been in a secular decline. If you put all these secular issues
and litigation in another vehicle, you get a much higher growth
company. That’s where we see a lot of the upside.”  By applying market valuations to each of News Corp.’s
units, the company is worth about $70 billion, according to a
sum-of-the-parts analysis by Gabelli’s Harriss.  Entertainment Value  News Corp.’s cable network business, which Harriss values
at 9 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization this fiscal year, would be worth about $32 billion.  The company’s film, TV and satellite units together would
sell for $21 billion, and News Corp. also has almost $16 billion
in investments, based on his projections.  Excluding News Corp.’s estimated  net debt  this fiscal year
and the value of the investments, the company’s entertainment
businesses -- without the newspaper unit -- would still exceed
$52 billion, the data show. On a per-share basis, Harriss says
all the media conglomerate’s pieces would add up to $29, about a
third more than its price of $21.76 yesterday.  Jeffrey Logsdon, an analyst at BMO Capital in  Los Angeles ,
is even more bullish, and says the value of News Corp.’s
businesses may exceed $32 a share.  “It’s worth much more” than the company’s current price,
he said. “Somebody’s punishing these guys if they’re taking the
multiple down because of them owning the publishing business.”  Viacom Model  Murdoch can look to Sumner Redstone’s decision to split
 Viacom (VIAB)  Inc. into two companies -- CBS Corp. and a new Viacom
Inc. -- more than six years ago.  Since the end of 2005, CBS, which owns radio and TV
networks, rose 31 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Viacom, which controls  MTV ,  Comedy Central , Nickelodeon and the
Paramount film studio, climbed 12 percent. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index, the benchmark gauge of American common equity, gained
5.7 percent over the same span.  “If they can isolate the publishing assets and the
liabilities associated with the phone-hacking investigation,
theoretically it should result in a revaluation of the remaining
media assets,” Jaison Blair, a New York-based analyst at Telsey
Advisory Group, said in a telephone interview. For investors,
“this is one step in the opportunistic chain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 