-- News Corp. Split Said to Lessen Media Plurality Concerns
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-06-26T16:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/news-corp-split-said-to-lessen-media-plurality-concerns.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s potential breakup into
two divisions may lessen concerns by U.K. regulator Ofcom about
the company’s control of the British media market, according to
a person familiar with the matter.  News Corp., whose Sun, Times and Sunday Times newspapers
account for a third of the U.K. market by circulation, said
today it’s considering splitting into two publicly held units.
The New York-based company has been under investor pressure to
carve out its media business from entertainment holdings.  A separation, depending on how it’s structured, could be a
way to address concerns over media plurality, said the person,
asking not to be identified as no decision has been made. News
Corp. last year dropped a 7.8 billion-pound ($12 billion) bid to
buy the outstanding 61 percent of  British Sky Broadcasting Group (BSY) 
Plc after legislators objected to the deal following phone-
hacking and bribery scandals at News Corp.’s tabloids.  At the time of the BSkyB bid,  Ofcom  was asked to advise
lawmakers on plurality issues. A current investigation by the
watchdog into whether News Corp. should keep its 39 percent
stake in BSkyB, the largest U.K. pay-TV operator, probably
wouldn’t be affected by a News Corp. split, the person said.  Rupert Murdoch , chairman and chief executive officer of
News Corp., is overseeing internal discussions on whether to
break up the company, said two people with knowledge of the
matter, who asked not to be identified because a decision isn’t
final. In a statement today, News Corp. didn’t specify how the
company would be divided.  Not Fit  A U.K. committee, after probing whether News Corp. misled
Parliament in the scandal, where journalists hacked into the
phones of politicians and celebrities for exclusive stories,
concluded last month that Murdoch, 81, is “not a fit person to
exercise the stewardship of a major international company.” The
vote among lawmakers wasn’t unanimous and the report split
lawmakers along party lines.  Ofcom has the power to force News Corp. to sell or cut its
stake in BSkyB, with a market value of 4.4 billion pounds. The
regulator, which has said News Corp. has “material influence”
over BSkyB, is probing whether News Corp. and its directors are
fit to hold a broadcasting license. Ofcom, which monitors
control over broadcasters, would still take News Corp.’s holding
into account in any separate company, the person said.  Opportunity  Ofcom last week said the U.K. government shouldn’t prevent
news organizations from gaining high levels of market share,
saying that a review of media plurality every four to five years
would be sufficient. An official at the regulator declined to
comment today.  In the long term, a split may still help News Corp.
distance itself from the hacking scandal and could even lead to
a new bid for all of BSkyB, depending on the structure of a
separation, said  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in London.  “It may, over time, result in an opportunity to detach
News Corp. from the problems in the newspapers,” said Aspesi.
“It will be easier in the context of two separate companies.”  BSkyB rose 2.7 percent to close at 674 pence in London
trading. The stock has declined 8 percent this year. News Corp.
jumped as much as 8.3 percent in  New York .  News Corp. had planned to use the BSkyB acquisition to
consolidate its European television holdings, combining BSkyB
with pay-TV operations in Italy and  Germany , Deputy Chief
Operating Officer James Murdoch told an inquiry into media
ethics in London in April.  “This merger was about the creation of a pan-European
digital television platform,” he said at the time.  ‘Lightning Rod’  James Murdoch , Rupert Murdoch’s youngest son, stepped down
from the chairmanship of BSkyB in April because of “my role as
chairman could become a lightning rod for BSkyB,” he said in a
letter to board members at the time. James Murdoch helped build
BSkyB into one of News Corp.’s most profitable businesses.  Will Smith , an analyst at Jefferies in London, said News
Corp.’s considerations to split the company look like a
concession to regulators.  “They’re saying if you guys take a softer view on us
holding this pay-TV business, we will divest or spin out the
assets that have been the cause for concern. In effect, you’re
giving the regulator a win,” he said. “If you frame it in the
regulatory mind set, it’s almost a concession.”  The watchdog, which started gathering evidence in April,
has said it won’t be swayed by statements from lawmakers. News
Corp. will have to wait before attempting a new bid for BSkyB,
said Niri Shan, head of media practice at law firm Taylor
Wessing LLP.  “BSkyB is still political dynamite,” he said. “They have
to play the long game. Anything they do now won’t help in the
short term, but hiving off the newspaper and publishing
operations or selling them would put them into a better
position.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  