-- News Corp. Lobbyist Used Threat Over BSkyB Deal, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-06-26T15:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/news-corp-lobbyist-used-threat-over-bskyb-deal-lawmaker-says.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s top lobbyist in Europe
threatened a U.K. politician with negative newspaper coverage of
his party if the company’s  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
takeover bid was blocked, the lawmaker told a media inquiry.  Fred Michel, who handled News Corp.’s policy and public
affairs in Europe, implied the Sun tabloid would write negative
stories about Liberal Democrats if Business Secretary  Vince Cable , who belongs to the party, didn’t approve the 7.8 billion-
pound ($12.2 billion) deal, Member of Parliament Norman Lamb
said in a statement to the inquiry in London.  Michel “specifically mentioned the Sun and indicated that
it had given the Liberal Democrats reasonable coverage since the
general election” in May 2010, Lamb said. “He then implied
that if the decision surrounding the bid did not fall in their
favor, it would be a pity if things were to change and they were
no longer able to report in such a positive way.”  New York-based News Corp. said today it’s considering
splitting into two publicly held companies to divide its
publishing units from its entertainment holdings. The move comes
nearly a year after the phone-hacking scandal at News Corp.’s
News of the World tabloid scuttled the BSkyB bid and prompted
Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  to shutter the 168-year-old title.  Lamb was an adviser at the time to Deputy Prime Minister
 Nick Clegg , a Liberal Democrat and the junior member of the
coalition led by Prime Minister  David Cameron , a Conservative.
Cameron called for the inquiry in response to public anger over
the hacking scandal.  Miranda Higham, a spokeswoman for News Corp. in London,
declined to comment on the lawmaker’s statement.  Before Cable could make a decision on the BSkyB bid,
Cameron stripped him of responsibility for reviewing the deal
after undercover journalists recorded him saying he had
“declared war” on Murdoch.  The decision was given to Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt, a
Conservative who later faced calls to step down after evidence
at the inquiry revealed improper communications about BSkyB
between his office and Michel. Hunt’s top aide resigned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  