-- NHL Union Says Labor Negotiation With Owners May Begin This Week
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-26T17:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/nhl-union-says-labor-negotiation-with-owners-may-begin-this-week.html
National Hockey League players union
leader Donald Fehr said negotiations on a new labor agreement
could begin this week and extend beyond the Sept. 15 expiration
of the current accord.  The league’s current collective bargaining agreement was
reached after the entire 2004-05 season was wiped out when team
owners shut down the league. Fehr said yesterday at the union’s
executive board meetings in  Chicago  that players were prepared
to start talks.  “They’re going to start very quickly after the end of our
meeting on Wednesday,” Fehr, the executive director of the NHL
Players’ Association told reporters.  NHL spokesman John Dellapina did not respond to an e-mail
seeking comment. Commissioner Gary Bettman has said multiple
times that the league is prepared to negotiate once the players
indicate they are ready.  League revenue, buoyed by a 10-year, $2 billion television
contract with Comcast Corp.’s NBC, swelled to an estimated $3.2
billion this season from $2.2 billion in 2006, according to the
NHL. The league has not said how much of this year’s record
revenue is profit.  Fehr, a former executive director of the  Major League
Baseball Players Association , cited multiple times in baseball’s
labor talks when games continued during negotiations. He said
hockey players do not believe a work stoppage is inevitable.  “There’s nothing magical about September 15,” he said.
“The law is that if you don’t have a new agreement, as long as
both sides are willing to keep negotiating, we continue to play
under the terms of the old one until we reach one.”  Players’ Share  Negotiations are likely to center on the players’ share of
overall revenue, currently at 57 percent. Unions in the  National
Basketball Association  and  National Football League  both
accepted a player share decrease to around 50 percent during
negotiations of new labor accords in the past two years.  A similar decline to 50 percent from 57 percent would cost
the players more than $224 million a year, based on this year’s
$3.2 billion in league revenue.  “We have not made a proposal,” Fehr said. “We haven’t
heard an owners proposal.”  About 50 players turned out to the three-day meetings,
where an official negotiating committee will be announced.
 Phoenix Coyotes  forward  Shane Doan  said the turnout showed the
role players would take in the talks.  “It’s great to see so many players engaged and active in
our association with the important negotiations ahead,” Doan
said. “The game seems to be doing really well, with the NHL
bringing in record revenues for seven straight seasons, so we
believe a fair deal can be reached to keep the momentum of our
sport moving forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  