-- No $10 Million Check Needed for Argentine Vineyards
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 2012-06-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/no-10-million-check-needed-for-argentine-vineyards.html
At the southern end of  Argentina ’s
Uco Valley in the foothills of the Andes, Jose Manuel Ortega Gil-Fournier is helping make investors’ dreams of producing wine
from their own vineyards come true.  An investment banker at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  before leaving the world of finance in 2006, Ortega
is  selling 140 hectares  of land planted with malbec and other
varietals for $150,000 per hectare.  More importantly, he promises to do all the work in caring
for them. Ortega is counting on the allure of vines that
produced his 93-point Alfa Crux Blend (2003) and 94-point O.
Fournier Syrah (2002) to distinguish him from other sellers of
personal lots in Mendoza province, the hub of the country’s wine
industry.  “The Uco Valley is producing not just the best wines in
Argentina but some of the best in the world,” said Daniel Pita,
a hedge fund lawyer from  Sao Paulo  who bought into the Ortega
project without ever having visited Mendoza. “If you look at
other regions that are famous for good wine, like Bordeaux and
Napa, you can’t even think about investing there.”  Argentina’s personal vineyard market is expanding after
pioneers at  Vines of Mendoza  started marketing parcels to
international investors in 2006. They have since sold 106 plots
that produce 240 unique wines.  Ortega’s program is the first by an established Argentine
winery to admit “partners,” as he refers to clients who buy
property surrounding his namesake bodega 90 minutes south of
Mendoza city, the provincial capital.  Colonial History  “We’re inviting 85 investors, wine lovers, to share the
experience of being a winery owner without having to write a $10
million check,” Ortega, 44, said in an interview at his
restaurant, Urban, which looks out toward the snowcapped Andes.
“We’re socializing the pleasures of owning a vineyard and
making wine.”  While Mendoza’s wine industry dates back to the Spanish
colonial period, the parched, rock-strewn Uco Valley, 1,000
meters (3,280 feet) above  sea level , was little developed a
decade ago. Since then, it has attracted the world’s top
vintners.  Not far from Ortega’s O. Fournier winery, French oenologist
Michel Rolland joined winemakers Benjamin de Rothschild and
Laurent Dassault in creating Clos de los Siete, a group of seven
bodegas whose Monteviejo and Lindaflor blends are standouts.  Argentine Risks  Putting money into Argentina, whether you’re talking land,
companies or bonds, may seem risky given its history of
defaults, devaluations and confiscations.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  surprised
investors in April when she seized YPF SA, the country’s biggest
oil company, from  Spain ’s  Repsol YPF SA. (REP)  In December, Congress
passed a law blocking foreigners from owning large swaths of
rural land.  “It is of concern but I don’t really believe that the
nationalization trend is going to be widespread,” said Tom
Biery, a co-founder of Houston-based oil and gas producer Quail
Creek Companies, who’s looking forward to serving his own Uco
Valley wine at parties in a few years. “And while our
investment isn’t insignificant, it isn’t huge either.”  Ortega had planned to start his private vineyard project in
2008 but delayed it when the U.S. real estate collapse and the
fall of  Lehman Brothers  helped spark a global economic slowdown.  “We put it on hold for a while and late last year decided
that the  U.S. economy  was getting better,  Asia  was getting
better and  Brazil  was booming,” he said. “We thought those
would be three major markets to point toward.”  Bottle Design  As well as the land, purchasers get their vines planted and
maintained for three years. They can also work with Ortega’s
staff to design bottle labels, blend their own wines and ship
them abroad. Ortega estimates annual maintenance costs after the
first three years will average about $4,000, which can be offset
by selling grapes to the winery or marketing the wines.  About 10 vineyard owners will be able to build residences
on their plots, which could be rented out to a luxury hotel
Ortega plans to break ground on later this year.  Once you’ve taken your seat at Urban, the sale is an easy
one. The towering glass-walled restaurant leaves you looking
past vines heavy with plump malbec clusters to the jagged peaks
of the Andes.  Urban’s cuisine is overseen by Ortega’s wife, Nadia, whose
 eponymous restaurant  near Mendoza city was voted Argentina’s
best last year by the country’s National Culinary Academy.  Lunch Menu  At Urban, my wife and I settle into a four-course lunch
with wine pairings. Our repast begins with a cream of parmesan
and chardonnay-caramelized onions, transitions to a pork loin
over a mash of potato and orange with soy sauce and ends with an
olive oil sorbet. With accompanying wines, the total is 260
pesos ($58) each, a quarter of the cost of the tasting menu at
 Napa Valley ’s Auberge du Soleil.  Michael Evans , co-founder of Vines of Mendoza, says the
combination of high-quality wines and affordability is the hook
that keeps drawing investors to the country and the concept of
private vineyards. “The more people come down and see that they
can make wine in Argentina and be exposed to the magic of this
place, the better for all of us,” Evans said.  Muse highlights include  book  reviews and a look at Olympic
 dining .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Faries in Miami at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  