-- No Need for Tax-Exempt Debt as Colleges Avoid IRS: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-06-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/no-need-for-tax-exempt-debt-as-colleges-avoid-irs-muni-credit.html
So much for  tax exemption .  More than a decade after nonprofits fought to end a cap on
their sale of tax-free bonds, institutions from  Columbia
University  to the  University of Notre Dame  are finding they can
get a better deal by selling taxable securities after all.  While they pay more in interest, an increasing number of
schools are finding it’s worth it to avoid the  Internal Revenue
Service , which limits what can be done with facilities financed
through tax-exempt borrowing. The IRS has been stepping up
enforcement at the same time many institutions want more
flexibility to make money from research and other ventures as
they face reduced government support.  “The regulations for tax exempts have become much more
onerous and rates are right on top of each other,” said John
Sejdinaj, vice president for finance at  Notre Dame  in South
Bend,  Indiana , which sold $100 million in taxable bonds last
month. “We just give ourselves maximum flexibility.”  There have been more than a dozen deals this year, totaling
about $3 billion, with more on the way as Bowdoin College in
Brunswick,  Maine , and the University of North Carolina prepare
offerings, data compiled by Bloomberg show. For all of 2011,
there were at least a half-dozen totaling about $2 billion,
including $750 million of 100-year bonds from the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology .  Federal Deficit  The borrowing decisions may have political ramifications.
With the federal government facing a $1.2 trillion deficit and
the exemption of municipal securities costing the  U.S. Treasury 
about $30 billion a year, lawmakers may see an opening to try to
limit the amount of tax-free bonds nonprofits can sell. That is
what legislators did in 1986, capping the amount at $150 million
for colleges and hospitals, a restriction that was later lifted.  “It could come back to bite them,” said Alan Schankel,
head of fixed-income research and strategy at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC, an investment bank in Philadelphia. “After the
election when Congress looks at  tax reform , one of the arguments
they’re going to use is: Look at all these university bonds that
are issued with no subsidy.”  The issuance surge has come as Treasuries led a U.S. fixed-
income rally amid Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, pushing
municipal and corporate yields close to historic lows.  Narrowing Difference  The extra yield on taxable securities over tax-exempts has
narrowed, said Eric Wild, a managing director in the public
finance group in  New York  at Morgan Stanley, an underwriter of
some of the deals.  The yield on top-rated, 30-year munis touched a record low
of 3.47 percent this month, according to a Bloomberg  index 
starting in 1991. The  interest rate  for corporate debt rated AA
and maturing in more than 10 years fell to 3.79 percent, the
lowest since 1973, a Barclays Plc  index  shows.  The  difference  between the two indexes slimmed to 0.3
percentage point this month from 1.09 points in January, and is
less than a quarter of its average since 1993.  Dartmouth College this month borrowed $150 million for 30
years at 3.76 percent, less than a half percentage point more
than it would have paid in the municipal market.  “There’s such a demand for this asset class because they
continue to perform so well,” said John Augustine, an
investment banker in New York at Barclays, another of the
leading underwriters. “As universities think more and more
about their balance sheets and the long-term horizon, taxable
debt gives them real flexibility.”  Credit Crisis  Clifford Gannett, director of tax-exempt bonds at the IRS
in  Washington , didn’t respond to calls and e-mails.  The venture into the corporate market began amid the credit
crisis in 2008 when 15 of the wealthiest institutions, led by
 Harvard University , borrowed a combined $7.2 billion to bolster
their cash holdings as their endowments declined. Because the
financings weren’t tied to any specific educational or research
projects, the deals had to be done in the taxable market.  The following year Congress created Build America Bonds as
part of the stimulus act, which further whetted the appetite of
money managers as states and cities sold $188 billion of taxable
municipal debt. While the program, which ended on Dec. 31, 2010,
was closed to nonprofits, public institutions such as the
 University of Virginia  sold the federally subsidized debt.  100 Years  The latest wave began last year with MIT’s 100-year bond.
At least seven colleges have joined companies and sovereigns
such as  Mexico  in selling the long-maturity debt, including  Ohio
State University  and the  California Institute of Technology . As
schools considered so-called century bonds, some found taxable
rates were also attractive for more conventional 30-year deals,
according to Wild at Morgan Stanley.  “It’s not worth the headache, not to mention I can then
use those buildings anyway I want to use them,” William G.
Laird, chief financial officer at Loyola University of Chicago,
said regarding IRS financing restrictions. The school sold a
combined $157 million of the debt last month.  The IRS has increased audits and started requiring
nonprofits to detail their tax-free financings as part of annual
filings to the federal agency, further raising risk of
inspection, said Richard Chirls, head of Orrick Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP’s public-finance tax group in New York.  Borrowers can either pay a tax or face penalties if they
use their tax-exempt financed facilities for anything outside
their educational missions, he said.  Following are pending sales:  SEATTLE MUNICIPAL LIGHT & POWER REVENUE plans to issue
about $298 million in tax-exempt revenue bonds and $52 million
in taxable revenue debt in a competitive sale as soon as today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds will be used
to refund debt. (Added June 26)  NEW YORK STATE THRUWAY AUTHORITY plans to issue $1.1
billion in tax-exempt revenue bonds as soon as today, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds will be used to fund
capital projects.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its outlook on the
agency’s debt this month to negative from stable, with an A+
rating, fifth-highest. (Updated June 26)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  