-- No Second-Half Rally for China Stocks, Fund Manager Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-27T07:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/no-second-half-rally-for-china-s-stocks-top-fund-manager-says.html
China’s economy  will probably stay
in the “doldrums” in coming months, preventing a second-half
rally for the nation’s equities, according to the country’s
best-performing fund manager.  The government will do just enough to prevent the world’s
second-biggest economy from slowing further instead of taking
more aggressive measures to boost growth, Yu Guang of Invesco
Great Wall  Fund Management  Co. in Shenzhen, said in an e-mailed
interview on June 21. Property, auto and household-appliance
stocks may  outperform  even as the overall market stalls, said
Yu, whose Core Competitiveness Fund has returned 25 percent this
year, ranking it first among 714 China-based mutual funds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg as of June 25.  China ’s economy grew 8.1 percent in the first quarter, the
slowest pace in almost three years, as slowing global growth
dragged on the nation’s exports. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
has fallen 6.5 percent in June, poised to be  Asia ’s worst-
performing benchmark index for the month, as a manufacturing
slump and concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is curbing exports
overshadowed the first cut in  interest rates  since 2008. The
tumble in stocks pared the  Shanghai gauge ’s gain in 2012 to 0.8
percent.  “Stocks will be range-bound in the second half of the
year,” Yu said, declining to give equity-index forecasts or
name any stock picks. “China’s economy will remain in the
doldrums for a while, in line with the trend of the global
economy. It’s difficult to see either a big decline or a big
rally.”  Contrasting Views  Yu’s outlook for stocks is in contrast with other top-
performing Chinese money managers and strategists. Wang Qi, a
 fund manager  at Beijing-based Yinhua Fund Management Co., said
in a May 25 interview that stocks will rally in the second half
on the government’s pro-growth policies. Beijing Gao Hua
Securities Co., the most accurate brokerage based on Bloomberg
Rankings, forecast the Shanghai index will rise to 2,750 by
year-end. The gauge fell for a sixth day, losing 0.2 percent to
2,216.93 at today’s close.  The Shanghai Composite, which tumbled a combined 33 percent
in 2010 and 2011, trades for 9.69 times estimated profit, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC) , which includes
India, Russia and  Brazil , is valued at 8.36 times profit.  China’s Premier Wen Jiabao announced on March 5 an economic
growth target of 7.5 percent for this year, down from an 8
percent goal in place since 2005. The 2012 objective is still
more than double the 3.5 percent pace projected for the global
economy by the  International Monetary Fund .  Slowing Growth  While the government will further lower borrowing costs and
lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios this year, as well as boost
infrastructure spending, the measures will be gradual and
limited, Yu said. China has reduced banks’ reserve ratios three
times since November to spur lending to cash-strapped small
companies. The central bank cut its one-year lending and deposit
rates by a quarter percentage point on June 8.  “The rate cut is simply the start and the government is
expected to take additional measures such as fiscal policies to
counter a slowdown in the economy,” said Yu. “But these
measures will be limited.”  China’s  economy  has been decelerating since 2010 as rising
consumer and property prices prompted the government to raise
borrowing costs, increase down payment ratios for home buyers
and restrict the number of house purchases. Concern that  Greece 
may exit the euro has prolonged Europe’s debt crisis and hurt
the outlook for China’s exports to its biggest trading partner.  Not Quick Enough  Growth may be below 7 percent in the second quarter if this
month’s data doesn’t improve, the People’s Daily reported on
June 13. Manufacturing may shrink for an eighth month in June,
matching the streak during the global financial crisis, a
preliminary reading of a purchasing managers’ index from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed on June 21.  China hasn’t been quick enough in responding to the
slowdown in the economy, Qu Hongbin, a Hong Kong-based chief
China economist for HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview on June 21. The government’s policy
response has been late, with June data expected to show
“deterioration in most growth-sensitive indicators,”  Jason Todd , Hong Kong-based global head of equity strategy at Religare
Capital, wrote in a report yesterday.  China won’t introduce large-scale economic stimulus similar
to the 4 trillion ($629 billion) package announced during the
global financial crisis in November 2008,  Fan Jianping , chief
economist at the government-run State Information Center, said
at a conference on June 7. The economy is still dealing with the
negative effects from that stimulus, he said. Inflation jumped
to a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July 2011 before easing
to 3 percent last month.  Top Holdings  Invesco Great Wall Fund Management, a venture with  Invesco
Ltd. (IVZ) , a New York-listed  asset management company , had 38.9
billion  yuan  in assets at the end of the first quarter,
according to Shanghai-based fund tracker Howbuy. Yu, who joined
Invesco Great Wall Fund in 2005, has also worked as an analyst
for Century Securities Co. and as a manager in the risk
management department at BOC International Ltd.  Yu’s top three holdings at the end of the first quarter
were  Gree Electric Appliances Inc. (000651) , China’s largest maker of
home air-conditioners, Industrial Bank Co. and Shenzhen Hongtao
Decoration Co., according to his fund’s quarterly report. Gree
has gained 19 percent this year, while Industrial Bank rose 1.8
percent and Hongtao jumped 52 percent.  A gauge of property stocks in the Shanghai Composite, the
 best performer  of five industry groups this year with a 21
percent advance, may extend its rally in the second half on
policy-easing measures, Yu said.  Automakers and household appliance stocks will gain on
“low valuations and stable earnings growth,” Yu said. A  gauge 
of consumer discretionary companies in the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  that
includes Gree trades at 11.4 times estimated earnings, compared
with its five-year average of 21.6 times, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  