-- Novatek Expects Government to Reject ‘Shocking’ Gas Tax Plan
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-06-26T10:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/novatek-expects-government-to-reject-shocking-gas-tax-plan.html
OAO Novatek said it expects the
Russian government to reject “shocking” calls from the  finance
ministry  to quadruple the mineral extraction tax on natural gas,
which would undermine investment.  “I am sure such decisions won’t be made,” Novatek Chief
Executive Officer and billionaire shareholder Leonid Mikhelson
told reporters in  St. Petersburg  on June 22. “For independents,
the increase will still be sharper than for OAO Gazprom, but not
so much as the ministry announced in May.”  The Finance Ministry in May proposed to accelerate tax
increases, boosting independent producers’ tax rate to bring it
by 2015 near to the rate for OAO Gazprom, the country’s biggest
gas producer and sole exporter, Deputy Finance Minister  Sergei Shatalov  said at the time. Novatek isn’t currently in talks with
the government on gaining export rights, Mikhelson said.  Novatek,  Russia ’s second-largest gas producer, is seeking a
tax formula that would take into account increases in regulated
prices and transportation tariffs, inflation, and profitability
of export and domestic markets, Mikhelson said.  Russia is gradually increasing domestic prices to make
sales at home as profitable as exports.  Increases in the mineral extraction gas tax for
independents should be synchronized with this move, he said. The
rates for Gazprom and other producers should become equal after
domestic supplies become as profitable as exports, he said.  The government plans to make decisions by the end of
September on the  tax rate  for 2013 and prepare a formula before
the end of the first quarter to become effective from Jan. 1,
2014, Mikhelson said.  Under the finance ministry’s original proposals, which
Mikhelson said were “shocking,” Novatek would have had to
revise its investment plans, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  