-- NYC Said to Plan Staten Island Ferris Wheel to Rival London Eye
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-06-26T17:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/nyc-said-to-plan-staten-island-ferris-wheel-to-rival-london-eye.html
The north shore of  New York  City’s
Staten Island near its ferry connection with Lower  Manhattan  may
become the home of a Ferris wheel bigger than the London Eye,
according to a person familiar with the potential deal.  A bid from New York’s Plaza Capital Group Management LLC to
build the attraction leads four other proposals to develop the
area in the southernmost borough, said a person briefed on the
matter who wasn’t authorized to speak about it. The other four
bids, which proposed mixes of office and commercial space, are
far behind the wheel idea, the person said. The news was
reported earlier by the Staten Island Advance.  The  New York City  Economic Development Corp. last year
asked developers for ideas on developing two parcels on  Staten
Island ’s St. George waterfront, which has missed out on the
“huge opportunity” of New York City’s 8 million residents,
according to the agency. The ferry connecting the island to
Manhattan, 25 minutes across the bay, is the city’s third-most-
popular tourist attraction and 70,000 daily commuters pass
through the terminal.  “It’s the greatest thing that has been proposed for Staten
Island, especially on the waterfront,” James Molinaro, the
borough president, said in a telephone interview. “This could
landmark us. We have 2 million tourists a year on the ferry, so
we have a built-in audience to use it, and it’s a different
audience every day. Once you can attract them off that boat, you
got them here.”  Sprinting Tortoise  Meir Laufer, the chief executive officer of Plaza, didn’t
immediately return a telephone call and e-mail seeking comment.  At a proposed height of 600 feet, the Ferris wheel would be
bigger than the  EDF Energy London Eye , on the South bank of the
Thames in  England ’s capital.  The Eye is the world’s tallest cantilevered observation
wheel at nearly 443 feet (135 meters) high, according to its
website, and provides “unrivalled views” of the city to 10,000
visitors a day. The wheel’s capsules travel at 0.6 miles per
hour, or “twice as fast as a tortoise sprinting,” the website
says.  The New York City Council would need to approve any
project. The tracts, which were once rail yards, are adjacent to
the ferry terminal and on either side of a minor league baseball
field. They are currently used as parking lots.  “The sites occupy a prominent waterfront location near a
major transportation hub and a commercial, cultural and civic
center” with “assets that have yet to be fully utilized,”
according to the economic development agency’s request.  No Done Deal  Because the sites are in the North Shore Empire Zone,
would-be developers can benefit from various discretionary tax
credits and incentives intended to attract and expand
businesses, the so-called request for expressions of interest
said.  “We received several compelling responses to the RFEI and
are in active negotiations with multiple respondents,” said
Benjamin Branham, an EDC spokesman. “It’s our policy to not
comment on specific proposals during an open RFEI when
negotiations are ongoing. If there was actually a deal, then
sure. But the fact is that there isn’t.”  Julie Wood , a spokeswoman for Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ,
confirmed that the city has heard from several companies
interested in developing the land. The mayor is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 Edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  