-- Lockheed Joins EADS Urging Panetta to Seek Help on Cuts
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-06-27T15:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/lockheed-joins-eads-urging-panetta-to-seek-help-on-cuts.html
Chief executive officers of defense
contractors led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and EADS  North America 
went to the Pentagon to urge U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta ’s help in averting automatic budget cuts.  Lockheed Chairman and CEO Robert Stevens and his EADS
counterpart  Sean O’Keefe  met with Panetta and his top aides
yesterday. Executives from other contractors including  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD)  also met with the Pentagon chief, according to a
defense official and an industry executive who asked not to be
identified discussing the private sessions.  Defense companies are lobbying Congress and President
 Barack Obama ’s administration to avoid automatic cuts to federal
spending, known as sequestration. Pentagon spending will be
reduced by more than $500 billion over a decade beginning in
January unless an accord is reached on an alternative.  Leaders in both chambers of Congress are discussing whether
to propose a catch-all bill that would delay the automatic cuts
and fund the government through March or later, according to a
House aide and industry officials, who asked not to be
identified discussing the deliberations.  Panetta has called sequestration a “doomsday formula”
that would cut across all Pentagon programs and would be “truly
devastating to our national security.” The Obama administration
has proposed $487 billion in cuts from previously planned
spending over 10 years. Panetta has said Congress has the
responsibility to find a solution.  Worker Notices  Panetta discussed the consequences of sequestration when he
met yesterday “with executives from a number of defense
companies,” Department of Defense spokesman  George Little  told
reporters today.  “We are not planning for sequestration,” Little said.
“The companies themselves, not at DOD’s behest, may decide to
take action in the coming months.”  Stevens and O’Keefe said their companies were concerned
about planning for sequestration’s effects, according to the
defense and industry officials. They discussed the prospect of
sending hundreds of thousands of defense workers letters that
they may lose their jobs under requirements of state and federal
WARN acts requiring advance notice before jobs are cut.  They also asked about how to charge for overhead costs on
Pentagon contracts already in effect when sequestration starts.  The defense contractors declined to comment on what they
described as meetings with customers, according to Jennifer Whitlow, a spokeswoman for Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed,
Guy Hicks, a spokesman for EADS North America based in Herndon,
Virginia, and Rob Doolittle, a spokesman for  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based General Dynamics  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  