-- OECD Says Developing Countries to Boost Farm Productivity
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-06-26T13:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/oecd-says-farm-productivity-should-rise-in-developing-countries.html
Increasing yields on farms in
 developing countries  may help meet rising global demand for food
in the next 10 years, according to Wayne Jones of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Closing the “productivity gap” between farms in
developing and developed countries by 20 percent in the next
decade would increase world grain output by about 5 percent,
Jones, the OECD’s division head for agri-food and trade markets,
said today at an agriculture conference in London. Rising output
would spur a 5 percent to 20 percent drop in prices, he said.  “Both for developing countries and developed countries,
productivity growth is continuing,” Jones said. “Developing
countries are catching up. They have the largest productivity
gap, so it’s easier to close those productivity gaps than it is
to invent new technology.”  The world will need to increase food and feed production by
60 percent by 2050 to meet rising demand, as populations grow,
more people move away from rural areas and into cities, and
consumers eat more meat in their diets, Jones said. The amount
of land in agricultural production is likely to increase by
about 5 percent in that period, he said.  Environmental regulations, water availability, access to
credit and rising input costs may inhibit the world’s ability to
increase productivity, he said. Biotechnology, including the use
of genetically modified crops, “is not a silver bullet,” to
increase production, he said.  “The attitudes toward not only GMO specifically but
biotechnology in a broader sense are changing,” he said.
“Concerns are declining over time. Many of the concerns were
legitimate because they were based on a lack of information. It
makes sense to me that you need to understand something before
you accept something, and I think the industry is working on
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  