-- Hoenig Says Dimon Should Resign From New York Fed Board
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2012-06-26T22:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/hoenig-opposes-conflict-appearance-among-fed-regionals.html
Thomas Hoenig , former president of
the  Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City , said  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  should resign from the
board of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York because of an
appearance of conflicting interests.  “Directors, when they appear to have a conflict, that’s
when they should step down,” Hoenig said today in an interview
in Washington, referring to directors at the Fed’s 12 regional
banks. They should resign “for the perception of the integrity
of the institution,” he said on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays
Advantage” with Kathleen Hays.  Directors at the 12  regional Fed  banks are under scrutiny
after a $2 billion trading loss at JPMorgan revived concern that
its regulator, the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , is too cozy
with  Wall Street .  Hoenig, a board member of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., retired from the Kansas City Fed last October after 20
years as its president. He was succeeded by Esther George, who
had served as first vice president of the bank.  George said last month that directors at the Fed’s regional
banks who don’t meet the central bank’s standards for
impartiality should step down. She defended the presence of
bankers on the boards.  “Bankers should serve,” George said in a statement.
“There are high standards that apply to Reserve Bank directors,
and when an individual no longer meets these standards, the
director resigns voluntarily to allow someone who does meet the
criteria to serve.”  Sanders Bill  Senator  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont independent, last month
introduced legislation to ban employees of bank holding
companies or other firms regulated by the Fed from serving on
regional boards, calling the arrangement a “conflict of
interest that must be eliminated.”  Dimon has served since 2007 as a director of the New York
Fed, which oversees Wall Street banks including JPMorgan, the
largest U.S. lender. Bankers occupy three of nine seats on
regional Fed bank boards and give advice on regional economic
conditions. They have no role in bank supervision or regulation.  Dimon, in testimony this month at a House Financial
Services Committee hearing about JPMorgan’s $2 billion trading
loss, said regional Fed banks benefit from industry leaders’
input. The board is “more of an informational, advisory
group,” he said. “Whatever the lawmakers write would be fine
with me.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Kathleen Hays  in New York at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  