-- Hollande Reality Makes French Debt Less Attractive
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-06-26T14:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/hollande-reality-makes-french-debt-less-attractive-euro-credit.html
During his first two weeks in
office, President  Francois Hollande  saw French borrowing costs
go in one direction, and that was down. Not anymore.  The yield on the French benchmark 10-year bond advanced to
2.63 percent at 4:00 p.m. in Paris, up from a euro-era  low  of
2.071 percent on June 1. It was as high as 2.902 percent on May
15, when Hollande took office. The rate is at risk of rising
further with French banks vulnerable to the region’s debt-ridden
nations as economic growth stalls.  Investors already demand more than 6 percent to buy 10-year
Spanish securities and almost as much for similar Italian debt.
While Hollande has sought to reassure investors in France’s 1.35
trillion-euro ($1.7 trillion) sovereign  debt market  by
repeatedly pledging to cut France’s budget deficit, the
financial turmoil to the south makes his task more difficult.  “France has been out of the spotlight, but once the sheer
misery of  Spain  and Italy is figured in, the next target will be
France,” said  Bill Blain , a Newedge Group Ltd. strategist in
 London . “I’m seeing a very small number of international
institutional players buying French debt. People are very
nervous.”  French  government bonds  handed investors a loss of 1.7
percent this month as of June 22, according to indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. That compares with a first-quarter return of 2.4
percent and an advance of 3.9 percent in May.  Widening Spread  The premium investors demand to hold French 10-year debt
rather than comparable German securities was 109 basis points
today, after dropping below 100 on June 22.  Hollande’s pledge to shrink the budget gap had put France,
which was stripped of its AAA rating by  Standard & Poor’s  in
January, closer to  Europe ’s creditworthy north than to the
struggling south. Yet with no sign of an enduring resolution to
the region’s crisis, attention is turning back to French risks.  French banks, including  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , Societe Generale SA
and Credit Agricole SA, held $541 billion of private and public
debt in  Greece , Ireland, Italy,  Portugal  and Spain at the end of
2011, the most by foreign lenders, Bank for International
Settlements figures show.  Also, France had zero growth in the first quarter, and
joblessness is rising, making deficit-cutting goals harder to
achieve. That may hurt holders of the country’s bonds, notably
the long-term notes known as OATs.  Economic Slowdown  “If deficit numbers and/or GDP and unemployment in France
are ugly in the next few months, nothing will save the OATs,”
said Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $163 million at Glendevon
King Asset Management in London.  Growth is suffering in  France  as companies see order books
shrink and confidence wane. The Bank of France’s index for
sentiment among factory executives has stagnated all year,
suggesting gross domestic product may contract this quarter for
the first time since Europe’s second-largest economy exited
recession in 2009.  As Hollande turns his attention to tackling the deficit
after months of campaigning -- first for the presidency and then
for legislative elections that gave his Socialist Party control
of the National Assembly on June 17 -- investors are seeing just
how difficult his task will be.  Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault called ministers in
yesterday for a “budget seminar,” setting out the strictures
for reducing the deficit to 4.5 percent of GDP this year and to
3 percent next year from 5.2 percent last year.  ‘Government’s Headache’  For 2012, that means finding between 7 billion and 10
billion euros of savings.  Le Parisien daily flagged the meeting with the front-page
headline “The government’s headache,” though Hollande and his
ministers refuse to call what they’re seeking “austerity.”  “There’ll be tax increases, there’ll be spending cuts, but
I reject any talk of austerity,” Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said yesterday on I-tele. On France Info radio today
he said, “We don’t want austerity; it’s what touches the middle
class, hurts spending.”  The lack of growth makes the government’s deficit targets
harder to reach by diminishing tax receipts and driving up costs
for  unemployment benefits . Jobless claims rose to 2.89 million
in April, the highest since September 1999.  The Labor Ministry probably will show another increase for
May when it reports the figures later today, according to three
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Conflicting Views  Investors such as  John Stopford  of Investec Asset
Management say they will buy French debt given how constrained
Hollande will be in his options.  “We are comfortable with French paper, and we will buy
into its weakness,” said Stopford, Investec’s head of fixed
income in London. “We have some caution over what Hollande is
doing, but his room to maneuver is limited.”  Then there’s Humayun Shahryar, chief executive officer of
Auvest Capital Management Ltd. in Nicosia, Cyprus, with about
$100 million under management.  “France is going to be a big domino in the euro zone,” he
said. “At the moment markets are more focused on Spain and
Italy, but that could change very fast. It could even be that
the markets ignore  Italy  and go straight to France.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  