-- One President’s Economic Legacy Is His Successor’s Burden
-- B y   R i c h a r d   J .   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-06-26T22:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/one-president-s-economic-legacy-is-his-successor-s-burden.html
As President  Barack Obama  has
learned, the economic conditions left by a previous
administration can be a heavy burden on a president’s record.  As I argue in my book, “The President as Economist: Scoring
Economic Performance from Harry Truman to Barack Obama,” about
half of any president’s economic performance depends on how much
he improved or damaged the economy he inherited (as shown by the
trends in economic indicators). The other half depends on how
many good economic years the president racked up while
in office (based on the averages of the same indicators).  The book analyzes the inheritance factor for each president
since 1946, allowing us to view Obama’s performance in the
context of his peers. President Harry S. Truman, for example,
handled well the enormous challenges of transitioning from
wartime to peacetime, including the withdrawal of the enormous
stimulus of war expenditures. U.S.  government spending  plunged
from 41.9 percent of  gross domestic product  in 1945 to only 24.8
percent in 1946. As a result, GDP fell by 10.9 percent in 1946;
it rebounded strongly in the early 1950s.  Mild Recessions  After Truman, President  Dwight D. Eisenhower  achieved a
high ranking -- fourth out of the 12 presidents -- because many
of the economic indicators were sustained at better-than-average
levels on his watch. He had the second-lowest average inflation
rate, at 1.4 percent; the highest average growth (10.5 percent)
in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average ; a positive  trade balance ;
and a reduction in the national debt of 16.2 percentage points
(for second place). But because he followed Truman, the best
performer by far, Eisenhower couldn’t improve on the trend.
Several mild recessions during Eisenhower’s administration (in
1954, 1958 and 1960) also marred his record.  Even if President Gerald R. Ford didn’t do well
politically, his economic performance was quite positive,
ranking him fifth overall. That may be due mostly to lucky
timing: His record includes the period when the economy was
emerging from the 1974-75 recession. Ford’s two-year record,
1976 and 1977, shows rapidly improving growth rates of 5.4 and
4.6 percent, handing President  Jimmy Carter  a strong economy.
The U.S. continued to grow at 5.6 percent and 3.1 percent in
1978 and 1979 before falling into stagflation by 1980.  In 1981, the year  Ronald Reagan  became president, the
economy was in rough shape with inflation averaging 10.3
percent,  unemployment  at 7.6 percent and the Dow Jones
Industrial Average at only 875 points.  The weak economy presented an opportunity for Reagan to put
in place his tax-cut and deregulatory philosophy. With the help
of the  Federal Reserve ’s monetary policy, Reagan achieved a
turnaround. But because he didn’t inherit a strong economy, his
averages on inflation and unemployment weren’t stellar.  For example, Reagan’s average inflation rate was 4 percent,
which puts him in eighth place out of the 12 presidents, though
his reduction in inflation, 5.5 percentage points, ranks first.
Reagan’s average  unemployment rate  was 7.2 percent, well above
the 1946-2011 average of 5.7 percent, making him 10th out of 12
presidents. His reduction of the unemployment rate, 2.3
percentage points, also ranks first, though it dropped
below 7 percent only by the sixth year of his presidency.  In the transition from Clinton to President  George W. Bush ,
the economy slowed down. A mild recession occurred shortly after
Bush took office, with growth in 2001 averaging only 1.1
percent. In scoring his performance, however, the younger Bush
(Bush 43) isn’t blamed for that recession because, as the book
explains, each president’s indicators are lagged by one year to
allow for the effects of the previous administration.  Bubble Timing  The bursting of the dot-com bubble may have played an
important role in the slow growth of 2001 and 2002, but to be
fair, the technology sector’s crash wasn’t the fault of Bush 43.
The one-year lag gives the recession to Clinton. On the other
hand, Clinton bequeathed to Bush 43 a huge fiscal gift: The debt
as a percentage of GDP steadily fell from 1996 through the
recession year of 2001, to 56.4 percent from 67.1 percent.
That’s an improvement of 10.7 percentage points.  Comparisons have been made between the economy Reagan
inherited and the one Obama inherited, with some claiming Reagan
was dealt the worse hand. True, Reagan had to cope with high
inflation and high  interest rates  and Obama didn’t, but other
than those two indicators, the economy Obama took on was
significantly worse.  For example, Reagan inherited a national debt at the end of
Carter’s last budget (1981) of only 32.5 percent of GDP. Obama
inherited a national debt of 85.2 percent of GDP in 2009,
including debt owed by the  U.S. Treasury  to the Social Security
trust fund and other intergovernmental obligations. With the
economy still spiraling down, debt was rapidly climbing. Obama
had far less maneuvering room than Reagan did to jump-start the
economy. In addition, Bush 43 left Obama with 9.3 percent
unemployment, while Carter left Reagan a 7.6 percent jobless
rate. Bush handed Obama an economy in steep decline, with GDP
decreasing 3.5 percent. Reagan came to office with GDP growing
2.5 percent, a 6 percentage point difference in growth rates.  Looking at Obama’s performance in the context of his
inheritance, his record is respectable. Obama’s score is 79
points higher than that of Bush 43, greater than the difference
in scores between second and sixth place in the presidential
rankings, and comparable to the margin between Reagan and
Carter.  Under Obama, the  federal budget  as a share of GDP shrank by
1.1 percentage points, compared with Bush 43’s increase of 7
percentage points. Obama so far has the lowest  tax revenue  as a
share of GDP, at 15.3 percent, and the largest reduction in real
interest rates of 3.5 percentage points. He also has better
stock-market growth -- 5.5 percent against 1.9 percent for Bush
-- and a reduction in the unemployment rate of 1.2 percentage
points versus the second largest increase under Bush of 4.5
percentage points.  When Obama reminds voters how much his predecessor’s tax-
cut and deregulation policies harmed the economy, and supporters
of  Mitt Romney , the likely Republican nominee, respond that
Obama is “dwelling on the past,” it’s important to remember that
a president’s legacy is, indeed, his successor’s burden.  (Richard J. Carroll is an economist at the  World Bank . This
article, the second of three, is based on his new book, “The
President as Economist: Scoring Economic Performance From  Harry
Truman  to Barack Obama,” published in June by Praeger. Read  Part
1.  The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights:  the editors on the  Supreme Court’s Montana
decision  and the  limits of Italy’s technocracy ; Clive Crook on
U.S.  health care’s overheated politics ;  Edward Glaeser  on the
 troubling history of federal mandates ; Vali Nasr on what
 Pakistan tells us about Egypt ;  Peter Orszag  on  natural-gas cars
and trucks ; John C. Dugan and T. Timothy Ryan Jr. on why the
Dodd-Frank law  puts to rest “too big to fail .”  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Carroll at  richjcarroll@comcast.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 