-- Hong Kong Exchanges Signs 543 Million Pound LME Acquisition Loan
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-06-26T09:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/hong-kong-exchanges-signs-543-million-pound-lme-acquisition-loan.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) 
signed a 543 million pound ($848 million) loan which it will use
to help finance its bid for the London Metal Exchange.  The facility, which matures in June 2013, pays a margin
over the London interbank offered rate of 65 basis points for
the first 180 days, rising to 85 basis points thereafter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC
Holdings Plc and UBS AG provided the debt and Deutsche Bank
acted as the facility agent, the data show.  Hong Kong Exchanges’ $2.2 billion bid for the LME values
the world’s largest trading venue for industrial metals at 181
times earnings, making it the most expensive bourse acquisition
exceeding $1 billion on record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The deal is seen as a way for the LME to expand into
 China , the world’s largest buyer of metals.  Scott Sapp, a spokesman for the  Hong Kong  bourse, declined
to comment on the financing.  The offer of 107.6 pounds a share, or 180 times LME’s 2011
net income, requires approvals from LME shareholders and the
U.K. Financial Services Authority. It doesn’t need shareholder
consent in Hong Kong.  Hong Kong Exchanges said in a statement earlier this month
that it will finance the acquisition from “existing cash
resources and new bank facilities.”  “Short- and long-term loan facilities, totaling at least
1.1 billion pounds, sufficient to meet that part of the
consideration that will not be financed through existing cash
resources,” have been obtained from a group of banks including
China Development Bank Corp., Deutsche Bank, HSBC and UBS, the
company said in the statement.  The company said in the statement it expects to refinance
part or all of the credit facilities at a later date via a
combination of equity and bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  