-- Onyx at High Seen Poised to Reap 40% More in Any Takeover
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2012-06-26T21:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/onyx-at-high-seen-poised-to-reap-40-more-in-takeover-real-m-a.html
Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX) , which
surged to a record last week, is poised to hand shareholders 40
percent more after a regulatory panel’s support for a cancer
treatment heightened its allure as a takeover target.  U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisers said on June 20
that the benefits of Onyx’s medicine carfilzomib outweigh its
risks, boosting optimism that the blood-cancer drug will gain
approval as soon as next month and prompting the stock’s  biggest
gain  in more than five years. Helped by sales from the new
treatment,  analysts  now estimate Onyx’s revenue will more than
double by 2014, four times the median growth rate of
biotechnology companies with a market value greater than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With sales of carfilzomib projected to reach as much as $2
billion a year, Deutsche Bank AG said the South  San Francisco ,
California-based company could attract Bayer AG, which already
markets a cancer treatment with Onyx, and other pharmaceutical
companies facing competition from generics as drug patents
expire.  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , which is pursuing
acquisitions, and  Celgene Corp. (CELG)  may also be interested,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. Onyx could command $6 billion
in a takeover, about 40 percent more than the company’s current
market value, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. said.  The FDA panel’s support “definitely does make Onyx a lot
more attractive” as a takeover target, Navdeep Singh, a New
York-based analyst at Deutsche Bank, said in a telephone
interview. “The market’s indicating that. This drug is really
attractive. It’s a good tack-on to a sales force that is already
selling to the same doctors.”  Cancer Drugs  Danielle Bertrand, a spokeswoman for Onyx, said the company
doesn’t comment on market speculation when asked about the
possibility of a takeover.  Onyx,  founded  in 1992, is a biopharmaceutical company
focused on developing cancer treatments. The company’s only
approved product at present is Nexavar, a kidney-and-liver-
cancer drug it markets in collaboration with Bayer. Globally,
Nexavar sales reached $1 billion last year, with Onyx recording
$287 million in revenue from the medicine, according to a
filing. Onyx, the sole developer of carfilzomib for treating the
deadly blood cancer multiple myeloma, is also working with Bayer
on a colorectal-cancer therapy called regorafenib.  The company was exploring options including a potential
sale process last year, two people familiar with the situation
said in November.  Stock Surge  Onyx last week  soared  43 percent, the most since February
2007, after the FDA panel voted unanimously to recommend
carfilzomib for approval. The stock reached an intraday high of
$67.29 on June 22 and closed at $65.19 yesterday. Before the
vote, Onyx had gained 1.4 percent this year.  Today, Onyx gained 3 percent to $67.12, the third-biggest
gain among 97 stocks in the Russell 1000 Health Care Index.  If approved by the FDA, which is scheduled to make a
decision as soon as July 27, carfilzomib’s annual sales could
reach  $684 million  in 2016, according to the average of six
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg as today. That would
exceed Onyx’s entire  revenue  last year of $447 million. About
50,000 people in the U.S. are living with multiple myeloma and
20,000 new cases are diagnosed each year.  Carfilzomib is “a pretty unique asset” that increases
Onyx’s allure as takeover target,  Sven Borho , general partner of
New York-based Orbimed Advisors LLC, which owns 1.65 million
Onyx shares, said in a phone interview. “All of the big
companies, all of the big pharmas, all of the emerging companies
like the big Japanese companies trying to get into this market,
everybody wants to be in the oncology space.”  Growth Rate  Analysts project Onyx’s total revenue will increase more
than 108 percent between 2012 and 2014, according to forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a median estimated
growth rate of 24 percent among global biotechnology companies
with a market capitalization greater than $1 billion, and an
average projected growth rate of 45 percent for the group, the
data show.  Stephen Willey, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus in  New York ,
said Onyx could be worth $6 billion to an acquirer, more than 40
percent higher than its current market value of $4.2 billion,
based on the sales multiples paid by acquirers in recent
oncology deals.  Deutsche Bank’s Singh late yesterday boosted estimates for
peak annual sales of carfilzomib to at least $2 billion from
$1.5 billion. The drug increases Onyx’s allure as a takeover
target for pharmaceutical companies such as Bayer that have an
established sales force in oncology and face the loss of patent
protection on some of their own medicines, he said.  Heightened Need  Bayer is among large pharmaceutical companies whose patents
will expire on a combined 104 key medicines by the end of 2016,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It kind of heightens the necessity to acquire smaller
companies to plug those patent expirations,” said Singh. He
said Onyx could fetch as much as $90 a share in a takeover given
approval for carfilzomib, up from an earlier estimate last week
of as much as $76 a share.  Rosemarie Yancosek, a spokeswoman for Leverkusen, Germany-
based Bayer, declined to comment when asked if the company was
interested in pursuing Onyx.  While Bayer would be a logical buyer given its relationship
with Onyx, Singh said the biotechnology company increased its
appeal to other potential acquirers as well when it amended its
collaboration agreement for Nexavar last year.  The amended agreement maintains Onyx’s profit-sharing, co-
development and co-promotion of the drug with Bayer in the event
that Onyx is bought.  Celgene may be a potential bidder for Onyx because it could
use the same sales force that markets its current multiple-
myeloma drug to sell carfilzomib as well, said Ling Wang, a New
York-based analyst with Summer Street Research Partners.  Cost Efficiencies  “It’s easy to see the leverage, the synergy they could
achieve by marketing three potential backbone therapies for
multiple myeloma,” Wang said in a phone interview.  Greg Geissman, a spokesman for Summit, New Jersey-based
Celgene, declined to comment when asked whether the company was
interested in Onyx.  Takeda also could make sense as a buyer because it needs
growth opportunities and also has experience with blood-cancer
drugs, said  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based special
situations and merger arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon.
Takeda,  Asia ’s biggest drugmaker, is losing patent protection on
its best-selling diabetes treatment Actos. The  Osaka , Japan-
based company in September bought Swiss drugmaker Nycomed for
9.6 billion euros ($12 billion).  ‘Pretty Aggressive’  Takeda has been “pretty aggressive not only in
acquisitions but because in  Japan  they have a zero cost of
capital and need to grow,” Shah said in a phone interview.
“They know that if this is for real and from the FDA this is
positive, they don’t mind paying up for it.”  The  Bank of Japan  kept its benchmark  interest rate  between
zero and 0.1 percent this month as it grapples with an economy
that has contracted in three of the past four years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Elissa Johnsen, a spokeswoman for Takeda, declined to
comment on whether the company was seeking to pursue Onyx.  While last week’s FDA vote was positive for Onyx, the
agency isn’t obligated to follow the panel’s recommendation, and
pharmaceutical companies may not want to bid on Onyx before the
regulator makes its decision, Stifel’s Willey said.  Marketing Plans  If the FDA doesn’t approve the drug next month, it may not
be on the market until 2014 after further studies are conducted.
Before the positive panel recommendation, Robert W. Baird & Co.
analyst Chris Raymond said in a note to clients he didn’t
expected carfilzomib to be approved until then.  Even if it is approved next month, Onyx may decide to stay
independent and sell carfilzomib itself rather than accept a
takeover offer. Chief Executive Officer Tony Coles said during a
conference call last week that the company is prepared to market
the drug if it’s cleared for sale next month.  “We have done everything necessary to this point to be
ready for launch, short of hiring the sales force,” Coles said.
“It is certainly our intent to be prepared for a launch very
shortly after the approval and to do that as quickly as we
possibly can, with an appropriate number of sales reps and all
of the management infrastructure and marketing planning.”  Onyx Appeal  Potential acquirers that projected the company was likely
to win approval for carfilzomib could have saved at least $1
billion by bidding before last week’s run-up in the  stock .  Still, some drugmakers may be willing to pay a premium for
Onyx now that the FDA panel’s vote made approval of carfilzomib
more likely, Tullett Prebon’s Shah said.  Orbimed’s Borho said Onyx has appeal that goes beyond
carfilzomib. The company is seeking to expand Nexavar for use in
treating other cancers, while its experimental treatment
regorafenib has promise.  “It’s not just a one-product company,” Borho said.
“There are not many other companies out there like it. For
investment bankers, if they pitch to their clients about a
possible target, for sure Onyx is on every single one of their
lists.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 