-- Too Big to Fail? Then Get a Living Will
-- B y   J o h n   C .   D u g a n   a n d   T .   T i m o t h y   R y a n   J r .
-- 2012-06-26T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/too-big-to-fail-then-get-a-living-will.html
Jamie Dimon ’s congressional
testimony on trading losses has again stirred debate on the
notion of “too-big-to-fail” banks.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s losses were buffered by a strong
 balance sheet  and sufficient capital levels to avoid putting the
bank at risk. Nevertheless, opponents of the Dodd-Frank
financial reform’s resolution process have used this to
resurrect their belief that the law has not ended “too big to
fail,” but instead codified it into law. As former bank
regulators who both sat on the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
board, we disagree.  The FDIC recently  proposed  a way under Dodd-Frank of
reorganizing a large financial institution that would avoid runs
by short-term depositors and creditors and prevent messy
defaults on swaps and other derivatives. More important, the
FDIC’s proposal would also avoid taxpayer losses, which Dodd-
Frank flatly prohibits. Instead, losses would be borne by
shareholders and long-term creditors of the failed holding
company. Long-term creditors would swap their debt for equity to
recapitalize the company.  The process would be functionally identical to a Chapter 11
reorganization under the  Bankruptcy Code , with two critical
exceptions: It could be done much faster, and, if necessary, the
Treasury Department could provide temporary loans (backed by
collateral) to the reorganized company until market funding
returns.  Living Wills  The FDIC proposal is certainly not perfect, and there are
many practical issues that need to be worked through. That is
exactly what the FDIC is doing, in consultation with regulators
from other countries. It is also what financial institutions are
doing through the new  living-will process , in which they must
present plans for reorganizing or liquidating themselves in an
orderly way in the event of failure.  We believe that, unlike the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the
FDIC’s proposal is a credible bankruptcy mechanism for resolving
large institutions without causing financial panic. Putting a
large banking organization through the normal bankruptcy
process, especially during periods of financial stress, can lead
to disaster. Banks are like melting ice cubes; the normal
bankruptcy process is slow and deliberate. The combination is
lethal.  A bank’s franchise value can rapidly melt away before the
bankruptcy process is over, leaving depositors and other
creditors with far less than the face amount of their claims.
The fear of such an outcome can cause runs by short-term
depositors and creditors, which can spread to healthier
institutions. Such uncontrolled panic can destabilize the system
and result in enormous long-term damage to the wider economy.  That is why U.S. banks have always been excluded from the
Bankruptcy Code, even before  deposit insurance  was developed.
Instead, they have been reorganized or liquidated under special
resolution laws administered by their regulators or the FDIC.  One of the gaps exposed during the 2008 financial crisis
was the lack of a special resolution law for other financial
institutions, such as holding companies of banks, broker-dealers
or insurance companies. When one of these financial institutions
failed, the regulators had to choose between allowing the
institution to be put through the normal bankruptcy process and
risking a collapse of the financial system, or bailing it out
with taxpayer money. It is not surprising that, except in the
case of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., they chose bailout as the
lesser of two evils.  Orderly Liquidation  The so-called orderly liquidation authority in Dodd-Frank
closed this gap by creating a special bankruptcy law for non-
bank financial institutions modeled on the bank resolution law.
The FDIC’s proposal would use the new law to produce a
streamlined version of a managed reorganization under Chapter 11
of the Bankruptcy Code. This would be achieved by placing the
parent holding company into receivership and simultaneously
transferring all of its assets, including subsidiaries, to a
bridge holding company.  Importantly, the holding company would absorb all losses
incurred at its subsidiary bank, broker-dealer or other units by
injecting capital to offset the losses. That is, the holding
company’s shareholders and long-term creditors would bear these
losses, not the depositors or creditors of the subsidiaries.
Once this process is understood by the market, depositors and
other short-term creditors of the newly healthy subsidiaries
would have no incentive to run. This approach would also help to
avoid the foreign impediments to resolving a bank with global
operations.  The FDIC’s proposed solution is a credible alternative to
the unacceptable choice between a panic-accelerating liquidation
or reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code and a taxpayer-
funded bailout. To be sure, certain details remain to be worked
out. But it appears to have all of the essential characteristics
to solve the too-big-to-fail problem. The U.S. Bankruptcy Code
does not.  (John C. Dugan is a partner at Covington & Burling LLP and
a former U.S. comptroller of the currency. T. Timothy Ryan Jr.
is president and chief executive officer of the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association and former director
of the Office of Thrift Supervision. The opinions expressed are
their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Supreme Court ’s Montana
decision and the  limits of Italy’s technocracy ; Clive Crook on
U.S.  health care’s overheated politics ;  Edward Glaeser  on the
 troubling history of federal mandates ; Vali Nasr on what
 Pakistan tells us about Egypt ;  Peter Orszag  on  natural-gas cars
and trucks ; Richard J. Carroll on why a president’s economic
performance  depends on his predecessor’s record .  To contact the writers of this article:
John C. Dugan at  jdugan@cov.com  and T. Timothy Ryan Jr. at
 tim.ryan@sifma.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 