-- Tossed-Out $20 Tenants Turn Millionaires in Mumbai
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-06-26T00:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/tossed-out-20-tenants-turn-millionaires-in-mumbai.html
Thousands of rent-controlled tenants
in Mumbai paying $20 a month, and often less, are being turned
into millionaires by developers tearing down crumbling colonial
mansions to build luxury towers for the rich.  South Mumbai, including a stretch of prime land hugging the
 Arabian Sea , has about 500 dilapidated stone structures dating
back to the early 1900s with a potential redeveloped value of
about $40 billion, according to Pujit Agarwal, managing director
at  Orbit Corp. (ORB) , a Mumbai-based developer that derives about 80
percent of its revenue from redeveloping old buildings.  “For generations, most tenants were living a hand-to-mouth
existence, barely making two ends meet,” said Agarwal, whose
firm is one of around 75 vying to oust Mumbai’s rent-controlled
residents. “Now, with redevelopment, these tenants have become
multimillionaires overnight as capital values of the properties
they occupied soared.”  Home  prices  in Mumbai have climbed to a record 10,833
rupees ($200) per square foot, doubling in three years,
according to Liases Foras Real Estate Rating & Research Pvt, a
research company based in the city.  Sticking it out for the money comes at a price. Mea
Kadwani, 78, survived a roof crashing in on his head when part
of the three-story building in the upscale Nepeansea Road area,
where he has lived since he was a toddler, collapsed. He wasn’t
hurt beyond needing a tetanus shot, he said. Still, he and his
wife pocketed $2.5 million after three years of negotiations and
decades of paying rent that remained below $20 and peaked at $23
a month in a neighborhood where rents typically top $2,000.  Highest Compensation  “Unlike in the U.S., where people change houses an average
eight times, here we are very emotionally attached to our
homes,” the bespectacled, white-mustachioed Kadwani said while
sipping tea in his relocated residence a few blocks from an
Aston-Martin dealership. “Very often, we won’t change residence
for three generations or more.”  Only 37 percent of Americans have lived in their homes for
more than 10 years, with a median duration of 5.9 years,
according to U.S. Census Bureau  data .  Kadwani received among the highest compensation given by
Orbit to nine tenants in Mukund Mansion, built in 1923, which it
plans to turn into a garage to accommodate cars for residents of
its adjoining 29-story  Villa Orb Annex  tower currently under
construction. Villa Orb’s 7,700-square-foot (715-square-meter),
five-bedroom units are selling for about $12 million, Agarwal
said, netting the developer around four times the value of the
investment after paying 1 billion rupees to the landlords, 750
million rupees to the tenants, and paying for development.  While half of Mumbai’s 18 million residents live in slums,
they don’t get comparable payouts when developers come in. Under
a government plan, they are instead able to obtain free housing.
Developers must provide slum dwellers at least 269 square feet
on plots on which they erect buildings.  Nightmare Tenants  The nine-decade-old mansion is one of many such structures
in disrepair, as landlords can’t afford to maintain them on the
rock-bottom rents they receive and often shell out more than
what they collect on property taxes and repairs. Unable to evict
tenants because of Mumbai’s rent-control laws, they are left to
watch as market prices soar and their asset values sink -- and
sometimes their tenants profit from the spread on subletting to
others.  “It’s been a nightmare dealing with tenants,” said Kiran
Bhammer, a 59-year-old diamond jewelry designer who with his
family collected rents at Mukund Mansion ranging from $10 to $25
from nine tenants for decades after their parents bought it in
1963. “I’ve had cases where a tenant would illegally sublet the
apartment, and the person would refuse to leave until I took him
to court to evict him.”  Bodily Harm  Bhammer recalls threats of bodily harm when he’s tried to
get those subletting to move out.  “Despite all the problems we faced and the threats we
received, I couldn’t leave an asset like that,” Bhammer said.
“I even suggested to my wife and kids to move to another
apartment until this was resolved, but they refused and decided
to stick it out with me.”  Kadwani, the tenant, sympathizes with his rent collector
and doesn’t blame him for letting the roof fall in.  “The landlord was in a pitiable condition,” he said. “We
didn’t expect him to do much for the building given the rents we
were paying him.”  The Bombay Rent Control Act of 1947 was introduced to
provide relief to the city’s migrants after the partition of
colonial  India . Rents were set at 1940 levels to prevent owners
from charging excessive rates during a time of distress.  In  Mumbai , the measures have been amended and the act
rechristened the Maharashtra Rent Control Bill, which allows for
a 5 percent annual rent increase. The controls have proved so
politically popular that they’ve been extended several times,
Orbit’s Agarwal said.  N.Y. Lawsuit  The sagas of rent-control are familiar in  New York  City,
where a post-World War I housing shortage prompted temporary
rules that were later upheld and extended after World War II,
through the 1960s and into the present day.  A lawsuit by landlord James Harmon against the city was
rejected in April by the U.S. Supreme Court, which refused to
hear the challenge and left intact rules capping prices on
almost a million units in a city where rents averaged $3,418 in
March. Harmon, who lives in his brownstone home on  Manhattan ’s
Upper West Side along with six tenants, said half of his renters
pay $1,000 a month for one-bedroom apartments.  Seinfeld, Friends  Rent control is so legendary that American TV sitcoms and
serials have featured it. On “ Law & Order ,” it appeared as an
occasional motive for murder. On “Friends,” Monica inherited
her grandmother’s rent-controlled apartment, allowing her and a
roommate to pursue low-paying careers without being beholden to
Manhattan’s high rents. In a “Seinfeld” episode, a rent-
controlled apartment in Jerry’s building became available for
$400 a month after his 94-year-old neighbor died, and Jerry’s
friend Elaine was told to bribe the superintendent to get it.  The success of Mumbai’s redevelopment model is spurring
others to follow. A religious  trust  is attempting the city’s
largest redevelopment project in the 16.5-acre Bhendi Bazaar
area. Among the most dense and congested in the city, the
locality will be rebuilt by the trust, which plans to move
20,000 residents living in crammed shanties to 350-square-foot
units in new towers, according to the trust’s website. The
project, estimated to cost at least 15 billion rupees, aims to
turn 250 old buildings into multi-story towers over five years.  Cashing Out  The residents of Mukund Mansion were given a choice of
either an apartment in the new tower or compensation to move.
About 70 percent of tenants usually cash out instead of opting
for a redeveloped apartment, Agarwal said.  Kadwani, who had lived in 2,600 square feet, could have
bought two such sized units with the money he got had he opted
to move 15 kilometers (9 miles) north to the upscale
neighborhood of Bandra. Instead he bought an apartment of about
the same size on the first floor of a seven-story building in
South Mumbai’s Peddar Road area, about five minutes’ drive from
his former home.  “I refused an apartment in the redeveloped building, as
the idea of staying in these tall towers didn’t appeal to me,”
Kadwani said, instead opting for a quiet by-lane with a view of
sunlit trees from his living room. “We wanted a similar-sized
apartment in the same area as my grandchildren go to schools
here, and we have been living here for so many years.”  All tenants haven’t had an easy ride. Mitul Bhatia, a 33-
year-old recruitment consultant, and his parents were forced to
vacate their 972-square-foot, three-bedroom apartment in South
Mumbai after the landlord turned off the water and electricity.
Blocked drainpipes caused leaks and a short circuit in the
building, he said, adding that they stuck it out until he fell
ill with malaria in 2009.  Harassing Tenants  “Whatever he could do to harass us, he did,” Bhatia said.
“We would have to climb three floors every day to fill eight to
10 buckets of water since there was no electricity to pump water
into the flats.”  With an 81-year-old father, a 72-year-old mother and a
battle to recover his health, Bhatia said he accepted an offer
for a fifth of the market price and had to move to the suburbs.  “We got very little in the end, way below market rate,”
he said. “Prices to buy were too high in the same area, and
what we got from the landlord was too little. I feel bad, but my
parents feel worse because they had stayed there for decades.”  Some tenants in Bhatia’s building who remained through
water and power outages received higher compensation. One of
them, who asked not to be identified because he signed a
confidentiality clause with the landlord, says he fought in
court with the landlord for four years before getting a
settlement. The tenant, who had paid a monthly rent of 150
rupees for a 1,600-square-foot unit, received 60 million rupees
this month and bought a house nearby.  Faster Development  Mumbai has 19,642 old buildings that need to be
redeveloped, Orbit estimates. The city amended development rules
earlier this year, defining earlier gray areas that had held up
construction and making it easier to negotiate with landlords,
Agarwal said.  The new rules allow homeowners to expand their apartments
by enclosing spaces such as balconies, flowerbeds and terraces.
The definition crystallized the square footage that can be
redeveloped, removing earlier discretionary powers that allowed
competing developers bidding for the same plot to get different
rights based on their construction plans.  That’s helped speed up the changing of Mumbai’s skyline.  “We tried to sell our tenancy rights several times, but
the landlord refused to transfer the property to the new
tenant,” said Kadwani. “In hindsight, it was a blessing that
he didn’t agree, or we would have sold out for a fraction of
what we got in the end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  