-- Emerging Stocks Rise From Three-Week Low on American Home Prices
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-06-26T21:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/most-emerging-stocks-fall-on-growth-concerns-phone-shares-gain.html
Emerging-market stocks rose from a
three-week low after residential real estate prices in the U.S.
fell less than expected, overshadowing concern about Europe’s
debt crisis and a EU summit starting June 28.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.3 percent to 906.85
by the close in New York, snapping a three-day drop and rising
from the lowest level since June 6 yesterday. Telecommunication
companies led the advance as OAO  Rostelecom (RTKM) , Russia’s dominant
fixed-line phone company, surged 1.9 percent to lift Russia’s
Micex Index from a three-week low.  Oi SA (OIBR4)  rose in  Sao Paulo  while
Cia Hering tumbled.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of  property values  in 20 U.S.
cities dropped 1.9 percent in April from the same month in 2011,
the smallest decline since November 2010. The median forecast
was for a 2.5 percent drop. European Union leaders will hold a
two-day summit to find a solution to the debt crisis. Brent oil
in London advanced for a third day.  “The Case-Shiller numbers are supporting the positive
market trend for today and fit in with the general picture that
the U.S. is doing better,” Daniel Lenz, the  emerging markets 
chief strategist at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt , said by phone
today. “Markets like when things are a little better than
expected. There is also some hope ahead of the summit, though we
don’t expect a huge breakthrough.”  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  most-traded ETF tracking  developing-nation shares,
rose 0.9 percent to $37.41.  Consumer Data  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, dropped 1.6 percent to 29.22.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has slumped 13 percent this
quarter on concern Europe’s debt crisis is escalating. The gauge
trades at 9.9 times estimated earnings, compared with an 11.8
multiple for the MSCI World Index of developed nations,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. dropped for a fourth
straight month, to 62 from a revised 64.4 in the prior month,
figures from the Conference Board, a New York-based private
research group, showed today. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a reading of 63.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained 1 percent in Moscow, with Rostelecom
gaining the most in a week, while the Bovespa added 0.1 percent,
paring earlier losses.  Oi SA, Brazil’s telecommunications regulator, added 5.3
percent in Sao Paulo. Clothing retailer Cia Hering tumbled 7.7
percent, the most since Sept. 22, and was the biggest decliner
on the index.  Poland, Hungary  PGE SA (PGE)  climbed 2.1 percent in Warsaw after Bank of America
Corp. upgraded the shares to neutral from underperform. The
WIG20 Index rose 2 percent to snap a four-day decline.  Hungary’s BUX Index gained 0.6 percent after German
 consumer confidence  topped forecasts.  A measure of telecommunication service operators in the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.9 percent, the best
performer of 10 industry groups today.  “We are still in a critical period with lingering concern
over China’s economic slowdown and Europe’s debt problem,” said
Saharat Chudsuwan, chief investment officer at Bangkok-based
Tisco Asset Management Co., which manages about $4.7 billion.
“It’s a global theme for equity investors to switch to less
risky stocks such as telecommunication and health-care
companies.”  Telecommunication  China Telecom Corp. (728) , the country’s biggest fixed-line
carrier, climbed 1.5 percent in  Hong Kong , advancing for the
first time in six days as some investors favored companies with
domestic revenue. SK Telecom Co., South Korea’s largest mobile-
phone operator, added 1.7 percent.  South Africa’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  advanced 0.1
percent, snapping three days of declines.  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , the South African bank controlled by
Barclays Plc, dropped 8.3 percent, the most since 2002, after
the lender said first-half earnings before one-time items
declined as much as 10 percent as bad loans increased.  Vietnam’s VN Index slid 1.2 percent while Taiwan’s  Taiex
Index (TWSE)  dropped 0.4 percent. The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP) 
gained 0.5 percent. Economic expansion this quarter may be
robust due to services and agriculture sectors, Economic
Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan told reporters in Manila
today.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped three basis point, or 0.03
percentage point, to 388, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  