-- Hoteliers Expand in Saudi Arabia as Mecca Goes Upscale
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-06-27T11:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/hoteliers-expand-in-saudi-arabia-as-mecca-goes-upscale.html
The pilgrimage starts with a private
jet to an exclusive airport in  Saudi Arabia , where passengers
are treated to a buffet while travel-company employees process
their immigration documents. The visitors are then taken in air-
conditioned cars and buses to the InterContinental Hotel
overlooking the Grand Mosque in Mecca.  “We try to make it a little more comfortable for our
clients, that’s all,” said Abdulrahman Mohammad Al-Shaya, a
sales executive for Kuwait-based Al Marwa. The company offers
wealthy pilgrims a seven-day package for the Hajj, the Islamic
pilgrimage every able-bodied Muslim is obliged to make, for
about 5,500 Kuwaiti dinars ($19,800).  Rising wealth in Islamic countries from the Persian Gulf to
 Indonesia  is boosting demand for a higher standard of
accommodation as about 3 million pilgrims prepare to descend on
Mecca for the annual Hajj in October. That’s contributing to a
surge of hotel investment in Saudi Arabia by companies including
 InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ,  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  and
 Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)   Hilton Worldwide Inc., owned by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , plans
to more than double the number of hotels it operates in the
country to 14, including six in Mecca. It currently runs six in
Saudi Arabia. U.K.-based InterContinental will increase its room
numbers by about 50 percent to 7,300 in the next three to five
years. Hyatt, whose only Saudi hotel opened in 2009, expects to
have eight more in five years.  Starwood Expands  Starwood, the  Stamford , Connecticut-based owner of the
luxury St. Regis and W brands, has plans to manage five more
hotels, adding about 1,300 rooms. It currently has 10 hotels
with about 3,000 rooms.  The boom in Saudi Arabia will increase the number of
branded hotel beds available by 58 percent in the next few
years, research company STR Global estimates. While
international companies can operate hotels in Saudi Arabia, they
are not allowed to own property in the country.  “The  tourism industry  in Saudi is rapidly expanding and
our development plans reflect the growing demand for high-
quality hotels in that market,” said Christophe Landais,  Middle
East  managing director for Paris-based  Accor SA. (AC)  “The kingdom
constitutes a strategic base for us.”  Accor, Europe’s largest hotel operator, will open a 1,315-
room Pullman hotel in Mecca and another property in the south of
the kingdom, Landais said. The Paris-based company plans to
increase its properties in Saudi Arabia to 17 by 2015 from 12
today.  Clock Tower  The Abraj Al-Bait Towers, a hotel complex across from
Mecca’s Grand Mosque, transformed the ancient city’s skyline
when it was completed in 2010. The 601-meter (1,972-foot) clock
tower at its center houses an 858-room  Fairmont Hotel . Swissotel
plans to open a 1,562-room hotel in the complex this year,
according to the company’s website. Both hotel operators are
part of Colony Capital LLC’s FRHI Holdings Ltd.  Local companies are tapping the growing market as well.
Saudi Hotels and Resorts Co. has 10 hotels across the kingdom
and plans to add four in Mecca, Jeddah and Medina within a year.
Makarim Group, which manages the hotels, isn’t worried about
competition from foreign operators, marketing director Majdi
Saqer said by e-mail. “There will always be demand for local-
flavor five-star hotels,” he said.  Average daily rates in Mecca hotels rose 15 percent to
631.79 riyals ($168) in the first three months of 2012 while
falling 2.7 percent in  Riyadh . Revenue per available room in
Mecca jumped 43 percent to 403 riyals in the first quarter
compared with a 10 percent drop to 638 riyals in Riyadh,
according to STR Global.  State Investment  Rising wealth in parts of the 1.57 billion-strong Muslim
world isn’t the only force driving hotel growth in Saudi Arabia.
A $500 billion Saudi government spending program on homes and
infrastructure is lifting demand for short-term accommodation
from foreign consultants, engineers and other professionals who
stay in cities such as Riyadh and Damam, according to real
estate broker  Jones Lang  LaSalle Inc.  Resort-style tourism of the type offered in neighboring
United Arab Emirates is shunned by Saudi Arabia, a conservative
kingdom that strictly enforces Islamic laws such as a
segregation of men and women and a ban on alcohol.  About 53,000 branded hotel rooms are currently available
across the kingdom, about the same as the city of Dubai,
according to  STR Global . Those mostly provide five-star rooms
with a few in the four-star bracket. About 19,000 are in Mecca
and another 13,000 in Medina.  Furnished Apartments  Most pilgrims stay in furnished apartments, mainly supplied
by individuals and small businesses, said Chiheb Ben Mahmoud,
head of hotel advisory for the Middle East and  Africa  at Jones
Lang LaSalle. That’s also the most common type of accommodation
for professionals in cities like Riyadh and Jeddah and holiday
travelers in the south of the country.  “The practice of camping and unauthorized accommodation
does exist,” he said. “Every year, the Saudi authorities crack
down on it while trying to be sensitive because of the religious
motive for the trips.”  Religious visits including the Hajj and Umrah pilgrimages
and trips to Medina, the resting place of the Prophet Mohammed,
still dominate Saudi Arabia’s tourism industry. Last year, the
country hosted 10.6 million pilgrims and religious visitors out
of 15.4 million foreign arrivals overall, according to  Business
Monitor International . BMI estimates arrivals will increase by
an average 6 percent annually until 2016.  Record Hajj  The Saudi Ministry of  Hajj  says it expects a record number
of pilgrims this year. In 2011, 2.5 million passed through
Jeddah’s airport on 10,650 flights.  “There is some kind of a catch-up in terms of capacity
building,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , the Jeddah-based chief economist at
 National Commercial Bank , said by phone on June 14. “There has
been a long period when there was very little addition.”  Rising visitor numbers only tell part of the story. The
government’s drive to improve health and safety standards in
Mecca and Medina during the Hajj is triggering demand for hotels
by discouraging the centuries-old practice of accommodating
pilgrims in people’s homes, said Jones Lang’s Ben Mahmoud.  “Branded hotels, regional or global, currently form the
backbone of inventory in Mecca,” Ben Mahmoud said. “The trend
will continue as stricter guidelines for health and safety are
implemented and because a higher standard of comfort is being
demanded by pilgrims.”  Muslim Wealth  The market for a better class of accommodation is being
fuelled by economic growth in Muslim-majority countries.
Turkey’s economy expanded 8.5 percent last year, the third-most
among Group of 20 nations after  China  and  Argentina . Indonesia,
the world’s most populous Muslim nation, grew by 6.5 percent,
the most since the Asian financial crisis that ended in 1998.  “While most of the high-quality hotel supply has been
five-star and four-star, Accor is seeing the emergence of real
demand for other products like the economy three-star segment,”
Landais said. “For the moment, that’s only fulfilled by local
and unbranded hotel supply that lacks high quality standards
most of the time.”  International hoteliers are also seeing opportunities in
smaller cities such as Jizan, Yanbu, Khobar, Jubail and Hofuf,
he said.  Mecca was a destination for religious devotion for
centuries before the Prophet Mohammed’s birth in the 6th
century. The Hajj is one of the five pillars of Islam and every
able bodied Muslim in the world is obliged to make the journey
at least once in their lives, performing rituals like circling
the cube-shaped Kaaba and sprinting between the hills of Al Safa
and Al Marwa seven times. Pilgrims must spend a day on Mount
Arafat and sleep a night at Muzdalafa along with millions of
others.  ‘Unique Market’  “I wish I could have more hotels in Mecca,” said Jan Smits, InterContinental’s chief executive officer for  Asia ,
Middle East and Africa. “In four months, you make 70 percent of
your income. It’s a really strong market and it’s one of the
most unique in the world.” The company has been in the country
since the 1970s and operates one the hotels closest to the Grand
Mosque.  Staffing tends to be the biggest challenge for hotel
companies expanding in Saudi Arabia, according to  Moustafa Said ,
a lawyer for Clyde & Co. who advises operators and owners in the
kingdom. Securing visas for hotel workers can be a long and
laborious process and government quotas for hiring Saudi
nationals are hard to meet because many see the work as menial,
he said. Non-Muslims are barred from entering Mecca and Medina.  “There are obviously very qualified general managers and
staff who are Muslim, but the fact that you are limited to a
single religion makes things more difficult,” said Said, who is
based in  Abu Dhabi .  Pricing Cap  The  Saudi Commission for Tourism & Antiquities , which
regulates the industry, has also introduced unpopular rules such
as pricing caps that may damp investment by limiting return,
according to Said.  The obstacles aren’t deterring hotel operators so far as
slowing economic growth stifles expansion in other countries.
Saudi Arabia, holder of the world’s second-largest  oil reserves ,
has the capacity to spend to expand its economy even after crude
prices slid this year.  “The economic fundamentals look pretty good,” National
Commercial Bank’s Kotilaine said. “There are good growth
prospects and economic resilience. Although it may seem like a
more challenging market from the prospective of a new entrant, I
think it’s a more receptive market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 