-- Low-Fat Diet After Weight Loss May Raise Risk of Gain
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-06-26T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/low-fat-diet-after-weight-loss-may-raise-risk-of-gain.html
Eating a low-fat diet after losing
weight may cause the pounds to return, according to research
that recommends a low-glycemic diet, one that doesn’t cause
spikes in blood sugar, for weight maintenance and total health.  A diet rich in vegetables, fruits and minimally processed
grains that raise blood sugars slowly allowed the body to burn
about 150 calories more a day than eating a diet low in fats,
said David Ludwig, senior author of today’s study in the  Journal
of the American Medical Association . While a diet low in
carbohydrates burned 325 calories more a day than the low-fat
menu, it raised the risk of heart disease, the study found.  When people lose weight, their metabolism slows and allows
the pounds to return, Ludwig said. Only one in six adults who
are overweight or obese will maintain at least 10 percent of
their  weight loss  for one year, the authors wrote. Today’s
findings show that eating a low-glycemic  diet  -- food that
doesn’t cause blood sugar to surge and crash between meals -- is
best for health and long-term weight maintenance, he said.  “All calories are not alike,” said Ludwig, director of
the New Balance Foundation Obesity Prevention Center at
Children’s Hospital Boston and a professor at  Harvard Medical
School , in a June 22 telephone interview. “Rather than trying
to eliminate fat or carbohydrates choose the middle ground that
lets you eat the widest variety of foods as long as the focus
remains on the quality of the nutrients.”  Obesity Statistics  Two-thirds of U.S. adults are overweight and one-third are
obese, according to the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. The obesity rate may rise to 42 percent
of the  U.S. population  by 2030, the CDC said in a May 7 report.  The researchers in the study included 21 overweight and
obese adults from ages 18 to 40 who achieved 10 percent to 15
percent weight loss. They were then put on three diets for four
weeks each -  low fat ,  low glycemic  and  low carbohydrate .  They found that those on the low-glycemic diet burned
calories the equivalent of an hour of light exercise compared
with those eating foods low in fat, while those on a low-
carbohydrate diet burned calories equal to an hour of moderate
exercise without actually engaging in physical activity, Ludwig
said.  The study’s primary findings showed that about 40 more
calories a day were burned while the body was at rest on the
low-glycemic diet than on the low-fat diet. On the low-
carbohydrate diet, about 70 calories more a day were burned
while at rest than the low-fat diet.  Side Effects  The low-fat diet had the worst effect on insulin, so-called
“good” cholesterol, or HDL, and triglycerides, Ludwig said.
The low-carbohydrate diet had the worst effect on chronic
inflammation and hormonal stress, which are  heart disease  risk
factors, he said.  A low-glycemic diet, like the  South Beach Diet  and the Zone
Diet, can help control hunger longer because the body absorbs
sugar from the carbohydrates slower. Foods such as pears,
apples, steel-cut oats and some pastas are considered low
glycemic. Popcorn, watermelon and potatoes are deemed high
glycemic, as they cause the body to store fat and can lead to
overeating.  “Most people can lose weight for a few weeks or even a few
months, but most people regain the weight after a year and then
some,” Ludwig said. “For weight loss and heart disease
prevention, avoid diets that severely restrict any major
nutrient either fat or carbohydrate. Instead focus on reducing
the highly processed carbohydrates that cause surges and crashes
in blood sugar like white bread, white rice, prepared  breakfast
cereals , those low-fat snack foods and concentrated sugars.”  Future studies will look at how to personalize diets and
determine how people react to different diets, he said.  Obesity is defined as having a body mass index of more than
30. A 6-foot tall adult man weighing 221 pounds (100 kilograms)
or more is considered obese, as is an adult woman standing 5
feet, 6 inches tall weighing 186 pounds or more, according to
the U.S. National Institutes of Health.  Today’s study was sponsored by the NIH and the New Balance
Foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  