-- How Wall Street Lobbyists Created the ‘Socialist’ Smear
-- B y   C h a r l e s   G e i s s t
-- 2012-06-26T18:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/how-wall-street-lobbyists-created-the-socialist-smear.html
American history is full of
fractious political battles similar to those of the past decade.
At the heart of most usually lies an organized special-interest
group opposed to the White House and its policies.  Perhaps the most famous of them was the short-lived
American Liberty League.  The league was officially founded in 1934, a year and a
half into President  Franklin Delano Roosevelt ’s first term. Its
predecessor organization, the Association Against the
Prohibition Amendment, had successfully lobbied for repeal of
Prohibition in 1933. Its personnel moved to the new league,
ensuring a quick startup for its activities. On the surface, the
two organizations appeared to have little in common, but it
became clear that both were sophisticated lobby groups for
business and  Wall Street .  The AAPA wanted to end Prohibition as a maneuver to reduce
income taxes on the wealthiest Americans. It reasoned that if
spirits were legalized again, then the excise tax on liquor
sales could reduce the liabilities on the wealthy.  ‘Wall Street Model’  Members of the American Liberty League certainly were in
that group. Among its noteworthy contributors were members of
the DuPont family; Alfred Sloan of General Motors; Al Smith, a
former governor of  New York  and Democratic presidential hopeful
in 1932; a score of Wall Street figures; and two former chairmen
of the  Democratic National Committee , John Raskob and Jouett
Shouse.  Former President  Herbert Hoover  refused to join, claiming
that he had “no more confidence in the Wall Street model of
human liberty, which this group so well represents, than I have
in the Pennsylvania Avenue model upon which the country now
rides.”  Despite the mix of Republicans and Democrats in the league,
its members were very conservative and adamantly opposed to
FDR’s policies, which they considered too radical. The enactment
of banking and securities laws in the summer of 1933 infuriated
many of them. In their view, the country was headed toward
socialism and organized activity was needed to stop it.  The National Industrial Recovery Act became the focal point
for this opposition to the New Deal. The American Liberty League
mounted a public-relations effort to discredit the law, claiming
that it created undue government meddling in business. The
National Recovery Administration, the agency charged with
carrying out the law, sought to eliminate ruinous competition in
business by urging companies to form cooperative trade groups.
It drew up codes dictating fair labor practices, among other
things.  Major Victory  In 1935, the  Supreme Court  ruled the act unconstitutional,
stating that the executive branch was usurping the powers of the
legislature. The league claimed a major victory -- but it proved
to be its only one.  The American Liberty League was out of touch with the
country in the 1930s. In the 1936 election, it stood behind Alf
Landon, the Republican candidate, only to watch him lose the
Electoral College by 523 votes to 8. The group’s reputation for
throwing lavish black-tie dinners at expensive venues and then
bashing the administration in fiery speeches had little public
appeal when unemployment exceeded 20 percent.  One of those speeches sealed the fate of the league as an
ineffective organization. Before the 1936 election, at one of
its famous dinners in  Washington , Al Smith was the speaker. In
an impassioned address, he equated the New Deal with communism,
roaring that “There can be only one capital, Washington or
Moscow. There can be only clear, pure fresh air of free America,
or the foul breath of communistic  Russia .”  Landon lost the election by 11 million votes and the
American Liberty League quickly faded from view. But it had set
an enduring political precedent, especially for times of
economic hardship: Reformers were communists or socialists,
while Wall Street and business represented the real America.  In 1936, voters didn’t make the connection. Later, they
often would.  (Charles Geisst is the author of two forthcoming books,
“Wall Street: A History,” in an updated edition, and “Beggar-
Thy-Neighbor: A History of Usury and Debt.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:  Charles Geisst  at
 cgeisst@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 