-- Lloyds Traders Suspended Amid Libor Probe Said to Return to Work
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-06-26T09:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/lloyds-traders-suspended-amid-libor-probe-said-to-return-to-work.html
Two  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  traders
who were suspended in a probe of potential manipulation of the
London interbank offered rate returned to work this week, two
people briefed on the matter said.  The people declined to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to discuss the matter. Foreign-exchange derivatives
trader Alexandre Dube and interest-rate derivatives trader John Argent both declined to comment when contacted at their offices
in London today.  The two were sent home in about March, two people familiar
with the matter told Bloomberg News in May. “We don’t comment
on individual employees,” said Ian Kitts, a spokesman for
Lloyds.  Lloyds, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, is one of at
least 12 firms that have fired or suspended traders following
internal probes into suspected manipulation of Libor, a
benchmark rate for about $350 trillion of contracts from
mortgages to swaps. Regulators from  Canada  to  Singapore  and the
U.K. are investigating whether traders colluded to try and rig
the rate and lenders lied about their true cost of borrowing.  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted daily on
behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London. The
lenders are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from one
another for 15 different periods, from overnight to one year, in
currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After
a predetermined number of quotes are excluded, those remaining
are averaged and published for each currency by the BBA before
noon.  Lloyds said in March it had been named in private lawsuits
in the U.S. relating to how various banks set Libor, and was
also cooperating with government agencies in their
investigations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  