-- HP Tells Judge Oracle Was Under Contract to Support Chip
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-06-26T23:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/hp-tells-judge-oracle-was-under-contract-to-support-chip-1-.html
Oracle Corp. last year reneged on
its contractual obligation to develop software for  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ)  servers, a lawyer for Hewlett-Packard told a
 California  judge at the end of a trial.  Attorney Jeff Thomas told Judge James P. Kleinberg in  San
Jose  that Hewlett-Packard’s interpretation of the contract is
“completely in line with” the language of the final agreement
the companies reached over Mark Hurd’s transition from chief
executive officer of Hewlett-Packard to co-president of Oracle.
Oracle co-President Safra Catz’s testimony that she told a
Hewlett-Packard vice president that Oracle refused to make such
a commitment is inconsistent with e-mail evidence in the case,
Thomas said.  “For years, Oracle led HP to believe it would continue to
make the products available,” Thomas told the court. “When
that relationship seemed to be in doubt or danger” because of
Hurd’s departure, “HP asked Oracle to put those assurances in a
binding contract,” and Oracle agreed, he said.  Hewlett-Packard, based in  Palo Alto , California, seeks a
court order requiring Oracle to continue developing software for
its servers that run on  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s Itanium chips and about
$500 million in damages, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  Without such an order, Hewlett-Packard estimates it should
be awarded more than $4 billion in damages, based on an
extrapolation to 2020 that accounts for projected losses, said
the person, who didn’t want to be identified because the court
document containing the damages request is confidential.  Closing Arguments  Lawyers made closing arguments today in the conclusion of
the first phase of the trial, which started June 4. Kleinberg
must determine whether Oracle is contractually obligated to
continue developing software for Hewlett-Packard’s Itanium-based
servers. If so, a jury will determine in a second phase whether
Oracle broke the contract and what, if any, damages should be
awarded.  Oracle, based in  Redwood City , California, denies Hewlett-
Packard’s claims, arguing that the two sentences at issue in the
agreement don’t require Oracle to forfeit what software it can
develop and what price it can charge.  Dan Wall, a lawyer representing Oracle, told the court that
Hewlett-Packard’s lawsuit is an “assault” on the normal
business practices of two sophisticated companies.  ‘Single Word’  The agreement at issue doesn’t contain “a single word
about future software,” and Hewlett-Packard failed to show
evidence of any Oracle employees saying “we will continue to
port our future software” to the HP platform, Wall said.  “Oracle and HP don’t have any such forward-porting
agreement,” Wall said. “HP never made any serious effort to
get one,” and has resorted to litigation, a “skillful use of
e-emails and other documents to make it appear there was a
porting agreement that manifestly does not exist.”  Thomas cited a Sept. 12, 2010, e-mail presented at trial
from Oracle General Counsel Dorian Daley to lawyers drafting
Hurd’s settlement agreement, which refers to a conversation
between Catz and  Ann Livermore , who was then a Hewlett-Packard
vice president.  “Ms. Catz and Ms. Livermore did not discuss anything more
than an agreement to continue to work together as the companies
have -- with Oracle porting products to HP’s platform and HP
supporting the ported products and the parties engaging in joint
marketing opportunities -- for the mutual benefit of
customers,” Daley wrote in the e-mail.  Phone Conversation  Thomas said the e-mail contradicts Catz’s testimony that in
a phone conversation with Livermore about the Hurd agreement,
Catz emphatically rejected Hewlett-Packard’s request that Oracle
commit to continue developing its software for servers running
on the Itanium chip.  Catz’s testimony “obviously leads one to doubt what was
said in that Catz-Livermore conversation,” Thomas told the
court.  The testimony of Livermore and Catz that Thomas relied on
doesn’t amount to a “material conflict,” Wall said.  “Whatever the conflict is, neither one of them is claiming
that the two of them talked about it and agreed to port”
Oracle’s software to Hewlett-Packard’s platforms, Wall said.  Kleinberg asked the lawyers to file additional documents
supporting their cases by July 16, and said he’ll rule on the
first phase afterward. He didn’t give a specific date for his
ruling.  The case is Hewlett-Packard Co. v.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , 11-
cv-203163, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County (San
Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  