-- Gay Troops Get ‘Surreal’ Chance to Celebrate at Pentagon
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-06-27T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/pentagon-celbrates-gay-pride-month-without-rainbow-flags.html
Army Nurse Corps Captain Angela
Shrader sat with her arm around her female partner of 20 years
in a Pentagon auditorium and marveled at the occasion.  “In my lifetime, I never thought this would happen,” said
Shrader, 47. who has served in the military for 13 years. “To
be able to come dressed in my uniform with my partner and be
open, I can’t tell you how excited and proud I am.”  She was among more than 350 gay and lesbian service members
and their supporters who overflowed the auditorium yesterday as
the Pentagon celebrated “Gay Pride Month” for the first time.  After decades of culture wars and legal challenges, the
Pentagon ended in September its 18-year “don’t ask, don’t
tell” policy that had barred gay service members from revealing
their sexual orientation.  Repeal of the policy, approved by Congress in December
2010, made it possible for the Defense Department to honor
“openly gay service members who defend our country with honor
and integrity,” as President  Barack Obama  put it in a
videotaped message played at the event.  Obama is seeking gay and lesbian votes in his re-election
campaign, citing repeal of “don’t ask, don’t tell” as well as
his more recent support for gay marriage.  The change in Pentagon policy took effect last year after
Obama and military leaders certified the Defense Department was
prepared.  ‘Settled Issue’  The Republican chairman of the House Armed Services
Committee said last week that letting gays serve openly is now a
settled issue and that he won’t try to reimpose the “don’t ask,
don’t tell” policy.  “That’s not something that I would personally bring up,”
Representative Howard “Buck” McKeon of California said at a
June 21 defense writers’ breakfast.  The Gay Pride ceremony at the Pentagon drew some critics.  “The military cannot make political correctness a higher
priority without making combat effectiveness a lower one,” said
Peter Sprigg, a senior fellow for policy studies at the Family
Research Council, a public-policy research group in Washington.
“This event proves that we are already moving down that
slippery slope.”  An estimated 66,000 gay and lesbian troops are on active
duty, according to the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network,
which provides legal assistance to gay military personnel.
Before the repeal, more than 14,000 had been discharged for
being gay since 1993, when “don’t ask, don’t tell” was
adopted.  ‘So Fast’  “It’s a little bit surreal that the change could come so
fast and that the department could be taking such positive
steps,” said Army National Guard Lieutenant Colonel Todd
Burton, who returned home to Arlington,  Virginia , from a six-
month deployment to  Afghanistan  less than two weeks ago.  Burton, 44, joined the military in 1985 right out of high
school.  “To finally be able to be open and honest and recognized
by the department for my service is just an incredibly
fulfilling experience,” he said.  June is known as Gay Pride Month, when gay, lesbian,
bisexual and transgender people and their supporters hold
parades and street festivals in major cities across the country.  While other federal agencies have held Gay Pride events for
their employees for years, the Pentagon never acknowledged gay
employees within its ranks because of the “don’t ask, don’t
tell” policy that was adopted as a compromise by President  Bill
Clinton  in 1993.  National Anthem  The military celebrated this year on its own terms.
There were none of the rainbow flags, colorful costumes or
festive music that accompany festivals in cities such as  New
York  or Washington.  Like many other military events, the ceremony began with
the presentation of colors and the national anthem. Gay military
and civilian defense employees spoke about the sense of fear
they faced for years.  “The problem with the ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’ policy is
that it asked us to lie when no one even realized we had to
lie,” said Marine Captain Matthew Phelps, who enlisted at the
age of 25 and did a tour in  Iraq . “By virtue of the fact that I
wasn’t allowed to say anything, I was actually growing more
distant from my unit.”  ‘Been There’  The ceremony made clear that “gay and lesbian service
members are in the ranks and they have always been there,” said
Zeke Stokes, a spokesman for the Servicemembers Legal Defense
Network. “We can’t forget that just a year ago these service
members could have been fired just for being who they are.”  Since coming out to his colleagues in September, when the
ban was lifted, “I have had nothing but positive responses,”
said Burton, the Army National Guard lieutenant colonel. “It’s
just not an issue.”  Jeh Johnson, the Pentagon’s general counsel, told the
audience at the Pentagon that there have been “almost no issues
of negative effects” on the military since the “don’t ask, don’t
tell” policy was scrapped.  “This is the first time in history such an event has
occurred at the Pentagon,” Johnson said. “For those service
members who are gay and lesbian, we lifted a real and personal
burden from their shoulders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  