-- Petrobras Looks Past Lula for Next Big Find: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-06-26T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/petrobras-looks-past-lula-for-next-big-find-corporate-brazil.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the world’s
biggest deepwater oil producer, is looking past its largest
discoveries to avoid a fate similar to  Mexico , where output has
plummeted 25 percent since 2004.  Petrobras, as Brazil’s state-controlled  oil company  is
known, is shifting exploration efforts away from the ultra-
deepwater deposits where it made the Americas’ biggest
discoveries since 1976 after missing output targets in the past
eight years. About 69 percent of the company’s exploration
budget is going to areas outside the so-called pre-salt region
to guarantee it can bring new fields online in the coming years.  “We have large pre-salt potential, but we understand we
need to open -- and we have expectations to do so -- new
horizons along the Brazilian coastline,” Jose Formigli, the
head of exploration and production, told analysts at a
conference in Rio de Janeiro yesterday.  Petrobras is learning a lesson from Mexico, whose Cantarell
field lifted the nation’s output to a record 3.4 million barrels
a day in 2004 before falling as the country failed to invest in
new fields. Mexico is just now starting to explore deep waters
of the  Gulf of Mexico  after Cantarell’s output slid 74 percent
since 2006. The field’s production fell to the lowest in at
least 22 years in April.  The press office of  Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-
owned oil company, declined to comment for this story.  Target Cut  The company, based in Rio de Janeiro, cut its production
goal in a business plan published June 14 to 5.7 million barrels
a day by 2020, from a previous target of 6.4 million barrels.  Petrobras is spending $236.5 billion through 2016, with a
majority on exploration and production at offshore fields.  About 80 percent of Brazil’s oil comes from the Campos
Basin, where Petrobras has been producing since 1977. Output at
Roncador, which was Brazil’s biggest-producing field until
January, declined 8 percent in the past 12 months through April,
underscoring the need to replace aging deposits with new fields.  The  Santos Basin , which holds Brazil’s biggest pre-salt
fields including Lula, the largest discovery in the Americas
since Cantarell, only produced 6 percent of Brazil’s oil in
April as Petrobras works to develop the discoveries that lie
miles beneath the floor of the Atlantic Ocean.  “A company the size of Petrobras can’t just depend on
these two basins, Campos and Santos, for future growth,” Ivan
Cima, the head of  Latin America  upstream research at energy
research and consulting firm Wood Mackenzie, said in a telephone
interview from Houston.  Share Drop  Petrobras shares plunged 17 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 5.2 percent drop for Brazil’s
benchmark Bovespa index, as it struggles to acquire the drilling
equipment and platforms to meet production goals. The MSCI World
Energy Sector Index lost 11 percent in the same period.  The company forecast yesterday that it will only start
having positive  cash flow , excluding dividends, in 2016 as the
government holds back fuel price increases in an effort to
contain inflation. Petrobras tumbled 9 percent, the most since
November 2008, to 17.80 reais yesterday after securing fuel
price rises that were below some analysts’ estimates.  Petrobras is looking to replicate discoveries made by
 Tullow Oil Plc. (TLW)  in  French Guiana  and  Ghana , where the geology is
similar to basins in northeastern Brazil. Petrobras plans to
resume drilling at its first well in the Foz de Amazonas basin
near the border with French Guiana after suspending drilling
early this year because of bad weather, Formigli said.  “That would be a good indication of what’s to come in
Brazil,” T.J. Conway, a research and advisory manager at New
York-based Energy Intelligence Group, said in a telephone
interview from  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  