-- Philippines Reports Budget Deficit in May as Spending Rises
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2012-06-26T07:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/philippines-reports-budget-deficit-in-may-as-spending-rises-1-.html
The  Philippines  reported a budget
deficit in May, reversing a surplus the previous month, as the
government stepped up spending on roads and schools.  The  shortfall  was 19.9 billion pesos ($469 million), the
government said in an e-mailed statement in  Manila  today,
compared with a surplus of 31 billion pesos for April. Revenue
rose 9.4 percent from a year earlier, while spending climbed
16.7 percent.  President  Benigno Aquino  plans to increase state spending
to a record this year as he seeks to shield the economy from
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and a growth slowdown in  China .
His effort has been bolstered by recent credit-rating upgrades,
with Moody’s Investors Service lifting its outlook to positive
in May, citing improving debt levels.  “The outlook for the external environment looks cloudy in
the second half,” Eugene Leow, an economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore , said before the report. Still, the
Philippines “has a very strong fiscal position,” giving the
government leeway to ramp up more stimulus if needed, he said.  The peso rose 0.3 percent to 42.52 per dollar, while the
benchmark Philippine Stock Exchange Index gained 0.5 percent.  “The wide fiscal space will now give us an advantage to
finance infrastructure projects and social programs that shall,
in the long term, curb poverty and promote equality,” Finance
Secretary Cesar Purisima said in a statement today.  Budget Secretary Butch Abad said today he will present a
2.006 trillion-peso budget proposal for 2013 to Aquino on June
29. The budget deficit next year will likely be 241 billion
pesos, or 2 percent of gross domestic product, Abad said,
compared with a target of 279.1 billion pesos, or 2.6 percent of
GDP this year.  The Philippines’ $200 billion economy expanded 6.4 percent
last quarter, the fastest after China and  Sri Lanka  in a basket
of 17 Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg. Aquino aims
at growth of as much as 8 percent annually to boost incomes and
reduce poverty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  