-- Public Pensions, ESMA Report, Gen Re-AIG: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-26T12:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/public-pensions-esma-report-gen-re-aig-compliance.html
State and local pensions struggling
after years of underfunding and weak investment returns may look
even worse under new rules that will limit accounting techniques
that hide the extent of liabilities.  The  Governmental Accounting Standards Board , which
establishes requirements for state and local government
financial reporting, will alter how liabilities are calculated
and how assets are reported without affecting how much is
actually owed to retirees. Under the new guidelines, set to be
adopted yesterday, pensions in Illinois,  New Jersey , Indiana and
Kentucky may have less than 30 percent of assets needed for
promised benefits, according to the Boston College Center for
Retirement Research.  States and cities rattled by the  Wall Street  credit crisis
four years ago have been under pressure to put more money into
their retirement funds and claw back benefits amid investor
speculation that pension shortfalls might lead to insolvency.  The magnitude of the shortfalls ranges from $900 billion to
more than $4 trillion, depending on the assumptions used to
account for benefits that aren’t due for decades.  Long-term promises of defined pension benefits will be
categorized as a liability on financial statements for the first
time, according to the board. The changes also alter accounting
for future benefits and projections of investment returns.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Clearinghouses Should Bear Losses on Member Default, ESMA Says  Derivative clearinghouses should use their own capital to
cover losses when members can’t meet their obligations to
prevent “a default waterfall,” Europe’s top markets regulator
said.  About 50 percent of central counterparties’ capital should
be earmarked to cover losses before non-defaulting members need
to step in to prevent a collapse, the  European Securities and
Markets Authority  said in a report. The regulator also proposed
measures such as tougher collateral requirements and increased
trade reporting.  The proposals are part of an overhaul of rules governing
derivatives contracts in Europe that are scheduled to be
implemented by the end of the year. Global regulators have
sought tougher rules for over-the-counter derivatives since the
collapse in 2008 of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the rescue
of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , two of the largest traders
of credit-default swaps.  Libor Guardians Said to Resist Changes to Broken Benchmark Rate  The U.K. bankers and regulators charged with reviewing
Libor in the wake of regulatory probes are resisting calls to
overhaul the rate because structural changes risk invalidating
trillions of dollars of contracts.  The group, established by the  British Bankers’ Association 
in March after probes into allegations that traders rigged the
London interbank offered rate, may propose a code of conduct for
banks and impose greater scrutiny of Libor’s  correlation  with
other financial data over time, according to three people with
knowledge of the discussions who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private. It won’t propose structural
changes such as basing the rate on actual trades or taking away
oversight of the benchmark from the BBA, the people said.  Libor is determined by a  daily poll  of banks. Because
banks’ submissions aren’t based on real trades, academics and
lawyers say they are open to manipulation by traders. At least a
dozen firms are being probed by regulators worldwide for
colluding to rig the rate, the benchmark for $350 trillion of
securities.  Some on the committee are arguing that the mechanism for
setting Libor remains sound and any cases of wrongdoing were
isolated, one of the people said. There is broad agreement that
any changes to the rate be incremental, the people said.  For more, click here.  Basel Group Publishes Rules on Banks’ Disclosure of Capital  Global financial regulators released rules on the
information banks should publish about their capital levels so
that investors aren’t misled.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which brings
together supervisors from 27 nations including the U.S., the
U.K. and China, published the rules today on its  website .  Compliance Action  BMO Stops Selling Reverse Convertibles Tied to Single Stocks  Bank of Montreal  has stopped selling reverse convertibles
tied to single stocks, its most popular product in the U.S., as
sales of the instruments fall to the least in two years amid
regulators’ warnings of their risks.  BMO has sold about $250 million of the single-stock
securities in the U.S. since its first offering in September of
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its issuance of
all types of reverse convertibles fell to $52.3 million in the
first five months of 2012, down 40 percent compared with the
year-earlier period.  “We are shifting our emphasis to index based reverse
convertibles,” Alexis Brown, a spokeswoman for the Toronto-
based bank, said in an e-mail, while declining to explain why
the decision was made. “We are still in the reverse
convertibles marketplace.”  U.S. sales of reverse convertibles, high-yielding bank
bonds that convert into stock if a company’s share price
plummets, declined to $204.6 million last month, their lowest
level since at least the beginning of 2010, continuing a
downward trend after a Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
warning in July. The industry-backed regulator released an
 investor alert  advising buyers to be wary of advertising
suggesting the products are “safe and suitable for investors
seeking high yields.”  Sales fell last month even as higher volatility allowed
issuers to offer higher-yielding notes.  Former SMBC Nikko Banker Arrested in Probe of Insider Trading  A former  SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  executive was arrested
June 24 on suspicion that the person was involved in  insider
trading  with three other people.  Japan’s  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission  and
Yokohama city prosecutors are investigating former SMBC Nikko
executive Hiroyoshi Yoshioka, 50, and the other individuals, the
financial watchdog said in a statement.  Japanese regulators are cracking down on insider trading
after recent disclosures of leaked information eroded confidence
in the nation’s capital markets. Nomura Holdings Inc., the
country’s largest brokerage, this month acknowledged its
employees’ role in providing confidential data ahead of share
sales that the investment bank managed in 2010.  “We are very sorry and we take very seriously that our
former executive was arrested,” SMBC Nikko President Eiji
Watanabe told reporters June 24. “This should never happen.”  Yoshioka denied that he was involved in insider
transactions while he was employed at SMBC Nikko, Watanabe said
at the media briefing in Tokyo.  A former executive at the SMBC Nikko brokerage was
detained, the banking unit of  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. (8316)  said in a separate statement June 24, without naming the
individual. The banker was working for SMBC Nikko at the time of
the offense, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. said in the statement
on its website, without elaborating.  For more, click here.  Japan to Ease Trading Restrictions for Off-Exchange Platforms  Japan’s  Financial Services Agency  plans to ease limits on
alternative trading platforms by eliminating the so-called five
percent rule for transactions on SBI Japannext and Chi-X Japan
Ltd.  The current regulation requires investors to make a
takeover bid when they buy more than five percent of a company
through off-exchange transactions with more than 10
shareholders. No such rule exists for shares bought on Japan’s
conventional bourses. The changes for off-exchange venues that
display prices will probably be implemented by October, the
securities regulator said today in a statement.  The FSA said it was making the change to encourage
competition as the Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. and Osaka
Securities Exchange Co., the country’s two biggest bourses, plan
to merge. Growth of alternative trading platforms in Japan has
lagged Europe and the U.S., and the five percent rule is one
reason why, according to analysts including Jessica Morrison at
Deutsche Bank AG.  Dark pools, or trading venues that don’t display prices,
will not be exempted from the five percent rule, according to
the regulator. The Nikkei newspaper reported the FSA plan
earlier today.  The regulator’s plan to ease restrictions on so-called lit
venues follows a decision by the Japan Securities Dealers
Association in April to allow new venues to keep trading when
activity on the country’s main bourse is disrupted.  Courts  Comcast Gets U.S. High Court Hearing on Consumer Antitrust Suit  The U.S. Supreme Court will consider whether customers can
pursue an $875 million consumer lawsuit alleging that  Comcast
Corp., (CMCSA)  the nation’s largest cable television operator,
monopolized the Philadelphia market.  The justices yesterday agreed to review a federal appeals
court ruling that said the case could proceed as a class action
on behalf of as many as 2 million area customers.  A federal judge in April cleared the suit to go to trial on
some claims, including allegations that Comcast swapped
territories and subscribers with its competitors to ensure it
could control the Philadelphia market and charge higher prices.
Comcast has denied the allegations.  The case is Comcast v. Behrend, 11-864.  Gen Re, AIG Defendants May Get Fraud Cases Dismissed Under Deals  Four former General Reinsurance Corp. executives and one at
American International Group Inc. would win dismissal of
accounting fraud charges under proposed deferred-prosecution
agreements with the government.  The  Justice Department  June 22 filed in court five
agreements with the executives, who were convicted in 2008 of
fraud for helping to deceive AIG investors through a sham
transaction in 2000 and 2001.  They were sentenced to prison terms of as much as four
years. An appeals court overturned the convictions and ordered a
new trial in Hartford, Connecticut.  U.S. District Judge Vanessa Bryant must approve the
agreements covering former General Re Chief Executive Officer
Ronald Ferguson, ex-Chief Financial Officer Elizabeth Monrad,
ex-Senior Vice President Christopher Garand, ex-Assistant
General Counsel Robert Graham, and former AIG Vice President
Christian Milton. Prosecutors agreed to drop the case in a year
if the executives abide by the accords and follow the law.  Each executive would acknowledge that “aspects” of the
transaction were fraudulent and acknowledge that they should
have tried to stop it from going forward, according to their
agreements filed in federal court in Hartford. They would also
pay fines ranging from $100,000 to $250,000.  Thomas Carson, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney David B. Fein
in Connecticut, declined to comment on the agreements. The case
was handled by the federal prosecutors in Connecticut and the
Eastern District of Virginia and at the Justice Department in
Washington.  Lawyers for the five executives didn’t return phone calls
or e-mails seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Ferguson, 3:06-cr-00137, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (Hartford).  For more, click here.  San Marino Bank Loses Bid to Appeal 2011 Barclays CDO Ruling  A San Marino bank can’t appeal the 2011 U.K. ruling that
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  didn’t mislead Cassa di Risparmio della Repubblica
di San Marino SpA when it sold it collateralized debt
obligations in 2000.  A judge in the 2011 case dismissed the claim brought by the
bank, which alleged the way the British lender rated the notes
at the heart of a 92 million-euro ($115 million) lawsuit was “a
scam.”  Barclays had denied the allegations it sold the San Marino
bank structured notes that misrepresented the risks.  Dario Loiacono, a lawyer for the San Marino bank, declined
to comment on the ruling. A call and e-mail to Barclays didn’t
receive an immediate response.  Barclays and lenders in the region previously clashed over
CDO transactions.  The case is Cassa di Risparmio della Repubblica di San
Marino SpA v. Barclays Bank Plc, 08-757, High Court of Justice,
Queen’s Bench Division.  Utah Man Sued by SEC Over $100 Million Real Estate Ponzi Scheme  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission accused a Utah
man of defrauding investors of $100 million by promising
outsized returns in a real estate-based Ponzi scheme.  Wayne L. Palmer and his firm, National Note of Utah LC,
told investors they would reap annual returns of 12 percent
through his plan to buy mortgage notes and real estate assets,
the SEC said in a complaint filed in U.S. District Court in Utah
yesterday. National Note used most of the money it took in from
new investors to pay its earlier clients, according to the
complaint.  The agency said in a statement it obtained a temporary
restraining order and asset freeze.  A phone call to Randall Mackey, an attorney for Palmer,
wasn’t immediately returned.  Interviews  MIT’s Johnson Isn’t ‘Optimistic’ Dimon Will Resign From NY Fed  Former International Monetary Fund chief economist  Simon
Johnson  met with Federal Reserve staff members yesterday and
said he doesn’t believe the central bank will heed his call to
remove  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
from the  New York  Fed board of directors.  “I have not felt optimistic about either Jamie Dimon
resigning or” about the Fed revising its policies for its
boards of directors, Johnson, a professor at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, said yesterday in a call with
reporters. The meeting had “nothing that changed my lack of
optimism.”  Johnson met with the Fed’s general counsel,  Scott Alvarez ,
and Board Secretary Jennifer Johnson yesterday after circulating
a petition on the website change.org calling for  Dimon’s removal 
from the New York Fed’s board. The petition has gained more than
37,000 online supporters, he said.  The directors at the 12 regional Fed banks are under
scrutiny following a $2 billion trading loss at JPMorgan that
revived concern that its regulator, the New York Fed, is too
cozy with Wall Street. Dimon is one of three bankers sitting on
the board of the New York Fed.  Dimon ‘Incredibly Frustrated’ by Dodd-Frank, Brown Says  Thomas Brown , chief executive officer at Second Curve
Capital LLC and a Bloomberg contributing editor, talked about
his meeting last week with JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive
Officer Jamie Dimon.  He spoke with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Liechtenstein to Focus on Asset Management, Asia, Regulator Says  Liechtenstein banks should focus on asset management and
attracting inflows from wealthy Asian clients to rebuild their
business, according to Mario Gassner, the head of the Alpine
country’s financial regulator.  Liechtenstein’s wealth-management assets have dropped
almost a fifth to 166 billion Swiss francs ($173 billion) since
Germany used data stolen from the principality’s biggest bank,
LGT Group, in 2008 to prosecute tax evaders. The country of
36,000 people agreed in March 2009 to meet international
standards to avoid being blacklisted as a tax haven by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  The principality’s tax authority last month wrote to
customers of  Liechtensteinische Landesbank AG (LLB)  that the U.S. had
sent an information request covering accounts that contained at
least $500,000 at any time since the beginning of 2004.  Comings and Goings  Turkey Hires Former Islamic Banker as Chief Regulator  Turkey appointed Mukim Oztekin, formerly of Islamic banks
 Albaraka Turk Katilim Bankasi AS (ALBRK)  and  Asya Katilim Bankasi AS (ASYAB) ,
chief of the country’s banking regulator.  The decision to hire Oztekin for five years was published
in the Ankara-based Official Gazette June 22. He last worked as
a board member of the Savings and Deposits Insurance Fund, which
manages the assets of failed banks, according to state-run
Anatolia news agency. He also worked at  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi
AS (GARAN) , the country’s biggest bank by market value.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government, rooted in
an Islamic movement banned from politics in 1997, and other
institutions have broken with Turkey’s staunchly secular
traditions by seeking to appoint Islamic bankers to key
positions in the state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  