-- Pulse Expects Profit This Year After Selling WSJ Subscriptions
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-06-26T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/pulse-expects-profit-this-year-after-selling-wsj-subscriptions.html
Alphonso Labs Inc. , maker of the
Pulse news-reader app for smartphones and tablets, expects to
reach profitability this year after a strategy shift aimed at
generating sales from subscriptions to newspapers.  Starting today, users who download Pulse’s app from  Apple (AAPL) 
Inc.’s  App Store  will be able to buy monthly subscriptions to
news stories from the Wall Street Journal, which is owned by
News Corp., Alphonso Labs  Chief Executive Officer  Akshay Kothari
said in an interview. The company will offer paid subscriptions
to other content later this year, he said.  Publishers and news-reader apps like Pulse seek to benefit
from rising demand for magazines and newspapers in a digital
format -- rather than on paper. Until now, Pulse’s owners relied
on advertising sales, and the Journal subscriptions mark a first
foray into content paid for by users, Kothari said.  “What we have tried to do with these publishers is align
ourselves with their goals,” said Kothari, 25, who co-founded
Alphonso Labs as a project for  Stanford University . “Some want
to increase page views, some want to increase the number of paid
subscriptions.”  While readers can download periodicals directly from a
publisher, the Pulse app is designed to make it easier for users
to peruse an array of publications. In the case of the Journal,
Pulse is also letting customers buy sections or select groups of
stories -- rather than the full newspaper.  Pulse will charge monthly subscriptions of 99 cents for a
handful of stories chosen by Journal editors, or $3.99 for
technology or politics coverage. The fees are shared among
Pulse, News Corp., and Apple, which takes a 30 percent cut on
all subscriptions sold within iPhone and iPad apps.  Revenue from the partnership will probably make Alphonso
Labs profitable this year for the first time, Kothari said. The
23-person startup moved this month from  Palo Alto ,  California 
into a new headquarters in San Francisco’s SoMa district.  Pulse now has 15 million users and is one of the few
default apps installed on  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire. Pulse
has partnerships with more than 350 publishers, including
Bloomberg Businessweek, which like Bloomberg News is owned by
Bloomberg LP. The existing deals give users access to free or
ad-supported content. Pulse was first offered on Apple’s iPad in
2010 and got an onstage mention from Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs 
during a conference that year.  Pulse executives have been experimenting with so-called
branded-content advertising, stories and videos that get slotted
into the same flow as news content. One example is a two and
1/2-minute video promoting Toyota Motor Corp.’s Lexus line of
cars.  Pulse competes with a growing field of news aggregation
apps, including products from Google Inc. and smaller startups
such as Flipboard Inc. and Zite Inc. Flipboard announced a
partnership this week that gives the  New York  Times Co.’s
subscribers access to a magazine-like version of its articles on
tablets and smartphones.  Flipboard plans to support content in its app through
advertising and has no plans to collect revenue from
subscriptions, Chief Executive Officer Mike McCue said in an
interview.  “We do not think that splitting revenue three ways makes
much sense for the publisher,” said McCue, who co-founded
Flipboard in 2010. “We believe the advertising revenue is going
to be our focus.”  The Pulse partnership could help the Journal reach new
readers who prefer to browse content on mobile devices and may
have been unwilling to pay more than $25 a month for a full
subscription to the paper, said Alisa Bowen,  head of product  at
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Dow Jones & Co.  “There’s a perception that people who use these
aggregators of different content don’t value premium sources,
that all media brands are created equally,” Bowen said. “What
we’re trying to prove with Pulse is that even in this broader
environment, premium sources still matter.”  The companies would not reveal what portion of the
subscription fees each would get after Apple took its cut.  Executives at the newspaper began talking with Pulse about
app subscriptions about six months ago, Kothari said. The
companies decided to offer low-cost versions of its
subscriptions after seeing the success of game makers like Zynga
Inc. in selling virtual goods within iPhone apps.  Apple began offering subscription billing within App Store
programs last year. The company briefly said that publishers
offering their own subscriptions must also sell them through
Apple’s iTunes-based applications store, before reversing the
controversial policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  