-- Qatar Holding Seeks Higher Xstrata Price From Glencore
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-06-27T10:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/qatar-holding-seeks-higher-xstrata-price-from-glencore.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s 16
billion pound ($25 billion) offer for the rest of Xstrata Plc is
in doubt after the target’s second-largest shareholder demanded
the bid be increased by 16 percent.  Qatar Holding LLC, which built an 11 percent stake in Zug,
Switzerland-based Xstrata since February at a cost of about $4.3
billion, wants the agreed offer raised to 3.25 Glencore shares
for each of Xstrata’s, compared with the current offer of 2.8
times, according to a statement yesterday.  The move from Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund pressures
Glencore to sweeten the bid or walk away as it takes those
dissatisfied with the terms to about 14 percent of Xstrata
shareholders. That’s close to the 16.48 percent threshold that
has the power to block the offer because U.K. takeover rules
prevent Glencore from voting its shares in Xstrata.  “We now see an increase in the terms of the deal as a real
possibility,” Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts Jason Fairclough and Daniel Lian said today in a note to clients.
“This could be a bit too close to call and we think that
Glencore will have to consider Qatar’s comments carefully.”  Xstrata declined 2 percent to 770.2 pence at 10:39 a.m. in
 London  trading. Glencore fell 4 percent to 290.65 pence.  “The shareholders obviously have sufficient size that
Glencore and Xstrata will take notice,” said  Tim Schroeders , a
Melbourne-based  fund manager  at Pengana Capital Ltd., which
oversees about $1.1 billion of assets. “If you are going to
create an attractive entity for investors globally to invest in
post-merger, there’s a fair bit of work to do in the next couple
of weeks.”  Shareholder Votes  Xstrata shareholders are scheduled to vote July 12 on the
merger and proposed retention payments of as much as 172.8
million pounds to keep 73 Xstrata executives at the company. A
decision going against either proposal would block the deal,
which would create the world’s fourth-largest mining company.  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  and  Schroders Plc (SDR) , which hold about 2.9
percent of Xstrata between them, have already said they would
vote against the merger if Glencore didn’t boost its all-stock
agreement.  Xstrata (XTA)  has proposed changes to the retention payments,
Glencore said in a statement today to the London Stock Exchange.
Glencore is considering the proposal and will make an
announcement “when appropriate,” it said.  Changes may include tying them more closely to the future
performance of the combined company, people with knowledge of
the situation have said, asking not to be identified because the
talks are private.  Red Top  The payments prompted a so-called red-top rating, the most
serious corporate governance warning, from the  Association of
British Insurers , whose members represent about 17 percent of
the U.K. stock market.  Xstrata stock may drop by about 20 percent should
shareholders vote against the takeover as lower commodity prices
and increasing political risk for its operations in Argentina
and  Peru  have worsened the investment case for the company,
 Christopher LaFemina , an equity analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd., said in an e-mail received yesterday.  Xstrata closed at 785.8 pence yesterday in London, compared
with 1,230.5 pence on Feb. 2 when news of the offer broke.
Glencore closed at 302.7 pence in London, down 34 percent from
Feb. 2.  The Bloomberg Base Metals Spot Price Commodity Index, which
measures the price of the six main metals traded in London, has
fallen 16 percent since the deal was agreed amid concerns that
growth in  China  and  Europe  will slow further.  “A bump, probably from 2.8 to 3.0 Glencore shares per
Xstrata share, may be necessary to win over Qatar Holding and
other Xstrata shareholders,” Jefferies said in the e-mail.  Salvage Deal  Glencore will probably raise the bid, said  Sachin Shah , a
 Jersey City , New Jersey-based special situations and merger
arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon Plc.  “If they want to salvage the deal, then the number has to
start with a 3,” Shah said of the share-exchange ratio in a
telephone interview yesterday. The companies also will revise
the multimillion-pound retention payments to Xstrata executives
that have drawn shareholder ire, he said.  Claire Divver , a spokeswoman for Xstrata, declined to
comment. Charles Watenphul, a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-
based Glencore, declined to comment on the Qatar statement.  “An exchange ratio of 3.25 new Glencore shares for every
one existing Xstrata share would provide a more appropriate
distribution of benefits of the merger whilst properly
recognizing the intrinsic stand-alone value of Xstrata,”   Qatar 
Holding said in the statement.  Blocking Vote  Qatar Holding  held 311 million shares  in Xstrata, with
derivatives and options taking its total stake to 10.98 percent,
a June 14 filing shows. It had 66.6 million shares on Feb. 2,
the day Glencore said it was considering an offer for Xstrata.
Qatar is being advised by Lazard, according to its statement.  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded commodities
supplier, is barred by the U.K.’s takeover code from voting its
33.65 percent stake in Xstrata. That means Xstrata investors
with a joint 31.75 percent stake would be able to block the
payment plan and holders with 16.48 percent could vote down the
merger.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  