-- Qatar Shares Fall to 8-Month Low as Oil Drop Dims Growth Outlook
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-06-26T12:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/qatar-shares-fall-to-8-month-low-as-oil-drop-dims-growth-outlook.html
Qatar’s shares fell to the lowest in
more than eight months as concern grew that oil prices below $80
a barrel may slow economic growth in the Persian Gulf and
regional political tensions mounted.  Industries Qatar QSC (IQCD) , the Middle East’s second-biggest
petrochemicals company, decreased for a fourth day. Qatar
Telecom QSC, the country’s biggest company by revenue, retreated
1.1 percent. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  fell 0.4 percent to 8,194.65, the
lowest since Oct. 5, at the close in Doha. The measure is down
6.7 percent so far this year. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of
Gulf Cooperation Council stocks rose 0.2 percent after declining
for five days.  Crude oil fell amid concern a meeting of European leaders
this week will fail to halt a debt crisis that threatens to slow
the economy and curb fuel demand. Oil for August delivery
declined as much as 0.6 percent to $78.71 a barrel in New York.
Prices have dropped 23 percent this quarter, the biggest retreat
since the final three months of 2008. Gulf Arab oil exporters,
including the United Arab Emirates and  Saudi Arabia (SABIC) , supply
about a fifth of the world’s oil.  “Oil prices are near the year’s bottom with mostly bearish
sentiment, which could put pressure on the government spending
programs and hinder already-fragile economic growth,” said
Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities.
“Worry over the euro sovereign debt crisis is the main driver
behind investors risk-averse sentiment.”  Oil Price Drop  Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural
gas, plans to spend $130 billion on infrastructure by 2019 as it
prepares to host the soccer World Cup in 2022, according to
forecasts by the country’s development planning office released
yesterday.  The agency raised its outlook for economic growth this year
while warning that the estimate is vulnerable to a drop in
energy prices. Gross domestic product will expand 6.2 percent
and will slow to 4.5 percent in 2013, it said.  Persian Gulf shares have also been affected as tensions
escalated between Turkey and Syria. Turkey is ready to attack
any Syrian military forces that approach its border and are
deemed a threat after the shooting down of a Turkish warplane by
Syria last week, Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said. The
North Atlantic Treaty Organization is meeting on the incident
today in Brussels.  “Regionally, there is also some fear that the Turkish-
Syrian air incident could translate itself into a full
confrontation,” Farhat said.  Industries Qatar fell 0.6 percent to 128.3 riyals, the
lowest since Jan. 29. Qatar Telecom retreated the most since
June 14 to 107.8 riyals. The company after the market close
offered to buy the shares it doesn’t already own in  National
Mobile Telecommunications Co. (NMTC) , according to a statement issued
by Kuwait’s Capital Markets Authority.  Elsewhere in the region, Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  and Dubai’s  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  slipped 0.1 percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI) 
decreased 0.2 percent, while Kuwait’s  measure  rose 0.6 percent.
Bahrain’s  gauge  gained 0.4 percent and  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul
All Share Index (SASEIDX)  advanced 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  