-- Qatar Telecom Offers to Buy $1.9 Billion Wataniya Stake
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-06-26T11:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/qatar-telecom-offers-to-buy-1-9-billion-wataniya-stake.html
Qatar Telecom (QTEL)  QSC offered to buy a
stake valued at about $1.9 billion in Kuwait’s National Mobile
Telecommunications Co. as it steps up acquisitions amid
competition at home.  Qatar Telecom offered to buy the shares it doesn’t already
own in National Mobile, also known as  Wataniya Telecom , the
 Capital Markets Authority  said in a statement to the Kuwait
Stock Exchange. The shares of  Wataniya Telecom (NMTC)  will remain
suspended until the regulator takes a decision on the request,
it said, without providing further details.  Qatar Telecom, the nation’s biggest phone company, owns a
52.5 percent stake in Wataniya Telecom, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Based on Wataniya Telecom’s closing share
price yesterday, the stake Qatar Telecom is seeking to acquire
is valued at 526.7 million dinars ($1.9 billion), according to
Bloomberg calculations.  Qatar Telecom, which owns stakes in phone companies from
Tunisia to Indonesia, is seeking to expand outside its home
market where it faces competition from Vodafone Qatar. The Doha-
based company last month reached agreements to double its
holding in Asiacell, a mobile operator in Iraq, for $1.47
billion. It teamed up with Princesse Holding of Tunisia in 2010
to buy Orascom Telecom Holding SAE’s 50 percent stake in Telecom
Tunisie for $1.2 billion.  Wealth Fund Stake  Wataniya Telecom encompasses Qatar Telecom Group’s
businesses in Kuwait, Tunisia, Algeria,  Saudi Arabia , the
Maldives and Palestine, according to Qatar Telecom’s first-
quarter financial statement. The  Kuwait Investment Authority ,
the country’s sovereign wealth fund, is the second-biggest
shareholder in the Kuwaiti phone company with a stake of 23.5
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wataniya Telecom shares, which closed at 2,200 fils
yesterday, were suspended from trading today. The stock has
gained 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  