-- QPR’s $1.3 Million Barton Fine Blocked by Union: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-26T07:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/qpr-s-1-3-million-barton-fine-blocked-by-union-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Barton’s Fine  Queens Park Rangers wanted to fine Joey Barton 840,000
pounds ($1.3 million) for his behavior in the match at
Manchester City on the final day of the season before the
players’ union intervened, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Barton was sent off the field for elbowing City’s  Carlos
Tevez , then kneed  Sergio Aguero  from behind and clashed with
 Vincent Kompany  as he left the field.  Barton was yesterday stripped of the club’s captaincy and
fined 420,000 pounds, or six weeks’ wages, the newspaper said.
Barton, 29, also accepted that he’ll be fired for future
misconduct, the Mirror added.  Meireles Move  Chelsea midfielder  Raul Meireles  is an 8 million-pound
target for Italian club Napoli, the  Mirror reported .  Meireles, 29, has backed up winning the  Champions League  by
helping Portugal reach the Euro 2012 semifinals and Napoli
President Aurelio De Laurentiis has made inquiries to his agents
to try and make the move happen, the Mirror said.  Staying Put  Chelsea has been told by Atletico Madrid that striker
Radamel Falcao isn’t for sale at any price, the  Sun reported .  “Falcao will remain here and any talk of an exit is
misplaced,” the Sun cited Jose Luis Caminero, the Spanish
club’s sporting director, as saying.  Dzeko Doubt  Edin Dzeko’s proposed move from Manchester City to  Bayern
Munich  is in doubt after the German club made a bid for
Wolfsburg striker Mario Mandzukic, the  Daily Mail reported .  Dzeko was Bayern’s top target until Mandzukic scored three
goals for Croatia at Euro 2012, the newspaper said. Mandzukic,
who is valued at 7 million pounds, is also wanted by Everton,
the Mail added.  Keeping Kolarov  City manager  Roberto Mancini  said he doesn’t want to
offload Aleksandar Kolarov from his Premier League-title winning
squad amid interest from Inter Milan and Juventus, the  Daily
Express reported .  “Kolarov is a great left-back,” the newspaper cited
Mancini as saying. “I want to keep him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  