-- Rajaratnam Cooperator Smith Granted Two Years’ Probation
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/rajaratnam-cooperator-smith-granted-two-years-probation.html
Adam Smith, a former Galleon Group
LLC portfolio manager described by prosecutors as a “key”
cooperating witness against  Raj Rajaratnam , was sentenced to two
years’ probation and agreed to forfeit $105,300.  “I am deeply sorry for the mistakes I’ve made and I’m
incredibly humbled and ashamed,” Smith said when he was
sentenced yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court. “I apologize to
those who I have caused pain and harm, to my wife, my friends
and my family. I love my wife, my sons, my family and my
friends.”  The sentence was imposed by U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff, who also ordered Smith to pay a $15,000 fine.  “I hope this won’t be taken too cynically, but why is it
that defendants always remember how much they love their
families after they’ve committed the crimes that place that
relationship in jeopardy?” Rakoff said.  In another case that is part of a five-year U.S. crackdown
on  insider trading  at  hedge funds , Tai Nguyen, 49, president of
Insider Research LLC, pleaded guilty yesterday in the same
courthouse to conspiracy to commit securities and wire fraud.  At a hearing before U.S. District Judge Naomi Reice
Buchwald, Nguyen admitted that from 2006 to 2009 he was part of
a scheme to trade on material nonpublic information on  Abaxis
Inc. (ABAX)  a Union City, California-based medical products company. He
also agreed to forfeit $3.9 million he earned in the scheme.  Passed Information  Nguyen, of  Oregon  City, Oregon, told the judge he passed
the information to Samir Barai, founder of Barai Capital
Management LP, and Noah Freeman, a former fund manager who at
the time worked at Sonar Capital Management LLC. Both men have
pleaded guilty.  “I agreed with others to violate and defraud the U.S. and
took material nonpublic information from an insider and provide
it to Sam Barai and Noah Freeman,” Nguyen said. “I know my
conduct was illegal.”  Buchwald said Nguyen faces a term of 46 to 57 months in
prison when he is sentenced on Nov. 8. She allowed him to remain
free on a $500,000 bond.  Joe Dorame, a spokesman for Abaxis, didn’t return a voice-
mail message seeking comment about Nguyen’s guilty plea.  Related Lawsuit  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed a related
lawsuit against Nguyen, saying he traded in advance of quarterly
earnings reports on Abaxis -- including revenue, gross profit
margins and earnings per share -- that he obtained from his
brother, which allowed him to reap $147,000 in illicit profits.  Nguyen also was accused of passing the information to hedge
fund clients of Insider Research, a California-based equity
research firm, which the SEC said used the tips to make $7.2
million in illegal profits. The fund managers paid Nguyen more
than $15,000 a month in consulting fees, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office said.  The SEC has sued 23 people stemming from its investigation
of expert networking firms, which connect investors with
employees of public companies and purportedly provide them with
insight into specific markets.  More than 70 people have been criminally charged with
insider trading by Bharara’s office since Rajaratnam, the co-
founder of Galleon Group, was arrested in October 2009,
prosecutors said. At least 64 people have either pleaded guilty
or been convicted at trial, Bharara’s office said. Rajaratnam is
serving an 11-year prison term after a jury convicted him last
year.  ‘Substantial Assistance’  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky , who prosecuted
Rajaratnam, cited Smith’s “substantial” assistance to the
government in prosecuting the hedge fund manager.  Smith, who testified at Rajaratnam’s trial, provided the
government with critical information about how the fund manager
concealed his insider-trading schemes by fabricating e-mails as
false justification for trading in a particular stock, the
prosecutor said.  Smith, who has a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in
business administration from  Harvard University , told jurors at
Rajaratnam’s trial that he started working for Galleon as an
analyst in about 2002 after leaving  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  He was
promoted to portfolio manager and began trading on illegal
inside information at Galleon as early as 2004, he testified.  Guilty Plea  Smith, who pleaded guilty in January 2011 to conspiracy and
securities fraud, had faced as long as 20 years in prison,
prosecutors said.  He was also prepared to testify for the government at the
insider-trading trial of former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
director  Rajat Gupta , Brodsky said. Gupta was convicted by a
jury on June 15.  Gupta’s lawyers claimed there were other leakers at Goldman
Sachs who provided tips to Galleon Group.  Smith would have told Gupta’s jurors that  David Loeb ,
Goldman Sachs’s head of Asia equity sales in  New York , “at no
time” provided or discussed inside information about the bank
with him, the government said.  Defense lawyers assailed Loeb at the Gupta trial, alleging
he passed information to Rajaratnam about  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   Gupta’s lawyers sought to play for Gupta’s jury two phone
calls secretly recorded by the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation
between Rajaratnam and Loeb, as well as e-mails.  Trial Ruling  Rakoff, who presided over Gupta’s trial, rejected the
defense request to present the Loeb evidence, ruling that the
phone calls and e-mails were inadmissible hearsay.  Brodsky said Smith was the highest-ranking Galleon employee
to plead guilty and had provided the government with
Rajaratnam’s trading codes, as well as describing the conduct of
other Galleon employees, he said.  Smith has continued to assist prosecutors, Brodsky said,
and has provided “important assistance in connection with
several ongoing government investigations into illegal insider
trading,” including an unidentified analyst working in  Taiwan .  The case is U.S. v.  Adam Smith , 11-cr-00079, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 