-- Rand Gains as Bonds Rally After South Africa Sells Longest Debt
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-06-26T11:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/rand-gains-as-bonds-rally-after-south-africa-sells-longest-debt.html
The rand gained for the first time
in four days and bonds rallied after  South Africa  sold the
longest-maturity debt on record, bolstering confidence investor
demand for local debt will continue to support the currency.  South  Africa ’s currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 8.4622
per dollar as of 12:48 p.m. in Johannesburg, paring its retreat
this quarter to 9.3 percent. Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent
bonds due 2021 fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
to 7.36 percent after rising as much as six basis points in
earlier trading.  Investors bid for more than three times the amount on
auction as the National Treasury sold 500 million rand ($59
million) of 8.75 percent notes due 2048, the longest-maturity
fixed-interest debt from an emerging-market nation in  Europe  or
Africa for the past five years. The Treasury also sold 1.6
billion rand of securities maturing 2023 and 2031.  “It is encouraging,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of strategic
research at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in Johannesburg, said by phone.
“Full credit to the minister of finance for taking funds at
what is a relatively low rate considering the period.”  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  is reducing short-term
refinancing pressure by selling long-term bonds and exchanging
two-year debt for notes with longer maturities. The Treasury is
selling inflation-linked bonds maturing 2038 on Friday and also
planning to introduce inflation-linkers due 2051 this year, it
said in the budget review in February.  Bond Auction  The 2048 bonds were auctioned at an average yield of 8.83
percent, or 35 basis points more than notes maturing in 2031,
according to Reserve Bank data on Bloomberg.  Foreign investors have been net buyers of 43.6 billion rand
of South African bonds this year, JSE Ltd.  data  shows. The
inflows have helped support the rand even as concern Europe’s
debt crisis is worsening damped demand for riskier assets, said
 John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, analysts at Rand Merchant Bank
in Johannesburg.  The rand’s gain today follows a 3.3 percent slump in the
previous three sessions, touching a three-week low of 8.5261 per
dollar, as mounting concern that Europe’s debt crisis is
threatening global growth prompted investors to sell riskier,
emerging-market assets. The decline, the worst among more than
20 emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg, may be
overdone, a technical indicator shows.  “The rand is oversold relative to its compatriot high-
yielding currencies,” Cairns and Solomons wrote in emailed
comments today. “Another real factor stands out: foreigners
have been aggressively buying up our local bonds.”  Oversold  The stochastic oscillator for the dollar versus the rand
was at 72 today, above the 70 threshold that signals the South
African currency had depreciated too fast and is poised for a
rebound. A stochastic oscillator is a technical momentum
indicator that compares a security’s closing price with its
 price range  over a given period.  The rand is likely to trade in a narrow range as the
 African National Congress  today started a four-day policy
conference. The ruling party may endorse plans to raise mining
taxes and increase state control over the economy as President
Jacob Zuma shores up grassroots support ahead of a party
election.  “Players in the market will be a little nervous and will
probably stay that way until the end of the week,” Cruickshanks
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  