-- Treasuries Pare Loss as Haven Appeal Bolsters Demand at Auction
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-06-26T17:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/treasuries-pare-loss-as-haven-appeal-bolsters-demand-at-auction.html
Treasuries pared losses as the
refuge appeal of  U.S. government debt  bolstered demand at
today’s auction of $35 billion in two-year notes.  The securities  yielded  0.313 percent, compared with the
average forecast of 0.314 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
nine of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers. The bid-to-
cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with
the amount of securities offered, was 3.62, versus an average of
3.71 for the past 10 offerings.  “The story is the same, as European fears are still
driving price action,” said Justin Lederer, an interest rate
strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, which as a
primary dealer is obliged to bid in Treasury sales. “We are
still near low yields levels as  Europe  is still forefront on
everyone’s mind, and nothing is going to change that any time
soon unless something in Europe changes.  The yield on the current  two-year note  rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 0.31 percent, at 1:16 p.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It added
two basis points earlier. Ten-year yields advanced two basis
points to 1.62 percent after earlier rising five basis points.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 31.7 percent of the notes sold today,
compared with an average of 34 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct Bidders  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 7.9 percent,
versus an average of 11.8 percent for the past 10 auctions.  The Treasury is selling $99 billion in notes and bonds this
week. It will auction $35 billion in five-year debt tomorrow and
$29 billion in seven-year securities on June 28.  Two-year notes yielded 3.00 percent at the last offering of
the maturity on May 22. The record auction low was 0.222 percent
in August.  Treasuries pared losses earlier as concern European leaders
are failing to make progress toward resolving the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis renewed the refuge appeal of U.S.
government debt.  Yields dropped from the highs on the day after Reuters
reported that German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  rejected shared
liability for debt, citing people at a meeting of the nation’s
coalition parties.  “The constant debate in Europe is keeping us near these low
yield levels as we are still in the middle of a banking and
sovereign-debt crisis,” said Tom Tucci, managing director and
head of Treasury trading in New York at CIBC World Markets Corp.  This week’s note sales, combined with the June 21 auction
of $7 billion in 30-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, will raise $49.9 billion of new cash, as maturing
securities held by the public total $56.1 billion.  Two-year notes have returned 0.03 percent this year,
compared with a 1.92 percent gain for Treasuries overall,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The two-year
securities returned 1.46 percent in 2011, while Treasuries
overall gained 9.79 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  