-- Treasuries Fall Auction Looms, Home-Price Decline Slows
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-06-26T16:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/treasuries-pare-losses-in-new-york-amid-european-debt-concern.html
Treasuries fluctuated before today’s
auction of $35 billion of two-year notes amid speculation
whether European leaders are making progress toward resolving
the region’s financial crisis.  Yields dropped from the highs on the day after Reuters
reported that German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  rejected shared
liability for debt, citing people at a meeting of the nation’s
coalition parties. The $35 billion auction is the first of three
note sales this week totaling $99 billion.  “The constant debate in  Europe  is keeping us near these
low yield levels as we are still in the middle of a banking and
sovereign-debt crisis,” said Tom Tucci, managing director and
head of Treasury trading in New York at CIBC World Markets Corp.  The 10-year yield rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.63 percent at 12:39 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It climbed five basis
points earlier. Thirty-year bond yields were up two basis points
to 2.69 percent after advancing as much as four basis points.  Two-year note yields were little changed at 0.31 percent,
versus the record low of 0.1431 percent set in September.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
dropped 1.9 percent in April from the same month in 2011, the
smallest decline since November 2010, after falling 2.6 percent
in the year ended March, the group said today in  New York . The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists
projected a 2.5 percent drop.  Confidence Drops  Treasuries trimmed declines after confidence among U.S.
consumers declined in June to a five-month low. The Conference
Board’s index dropped for a fourth straight month, to 62 from a
revised 64.4 in the prior month, figures from the New York-based
private research group showed. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a reading of 63.  The two-year notes being sold today yielded 0.313 percent
in pre-auction trading. They reached a record sale low of 0.222
percent at the August offering.  Today’s auction faces an extra hurdle from the  Federal
Reserve , which is selling short-term debt from its holdings to
buy longer maturities. The Fed announced last week that it plans
to extend the program, known as Operation Twist, through year-
end to spur the economy.  “The market is mindful of the supply and what the Fed will
do with Operation Twist,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
 London . “There’s a lot of supply coming through and that
remains a hindrance and is weighing on the market. The Treasury
isn’t going to slow down on its funding needs.”  Fed Purchase  The Fed will buy as much as $5.5 billion of Treasuries
today due from August 2020 to May 2022 as part of Operation
Twist. It sold $8.37 billion of U.S. securities yesterday due
from March to October 2014.  Investor appetite for the safest securities helped increase
bidding at the previous two-year auction on May 22, which drew a
yield of 0.30 percent. The bid to cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was
Money managers submitted 3.95, the highest since the November
sale of the maturity.  The U.S. will auction $35 billion of five-year notes
tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year debt on June 28.  Spain  sold 3.08 billion euros ($3.85 billion) of bills,
with the three-month note yielding 2.362 percent, compared with
0.846 percent at the previous auction. Italy sold 2.99 billion
euros of zero-coupon 2014 notes at a yield of 4.71 percent, up
from 4.04 percent at the previous offering.  European Summit  Treasuries rallied yesterday as investors sought a refuge
on speculation European leaders will fail to stem the euro
bloc’s debt crisis at a two-day  summit  starting June 28. Moody’s
Investors Service cut the credit ratings of 28 Spanish banks
yesterday including  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA.  U.S. government securities have returned 1.9 percent this
year as of yesterday, after gaining 9.8 percent in 2011,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, as Europe’s
debt crisis boosted safety demand.  Fed officials led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week
extended Operation Twist by $267 billion through year-end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  