-- Treasuries Snap Gain as U.S. to Begin Note Auctions
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-06-26T11:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/treasuries-snap-gain-as-u-s-to-begin-note-auctions.html
Treasuries fell, snapping a gain
from yesterday, on concern  benchmark yields  that have dropped
more than half a percentage point in the past three months will
damp demand as the U.S. sells $99 billion of notes this week.  The $35 billion two-year auction today faces an extra
hurdle from the  Federal Reserve , which is selling short-term
debt from its holdings to buy longer maturities. The Fed
announced last week that it plans to extend the program, known
as Operation Twist, through year-end to spur the economy.
JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest U.S. bank, favors investment-
grade corporate bonds.  “The market is mindful of the supply and what the Fed will
do with Operation Twist,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
 London . “There’s a lot of supply coming through and that
remains a hindrance and is weighing on the market. The Treasury
isn’t going to slow down on its funding needs.”  The 10-year  yield  climbed four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.64 percent at 7:01 a.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note
due in May 2022 fell 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000 face amount, to
101. The yield, which declined seven basis points yesterday, has
dropped 55 basis points in the past three months.  Two-year yields were little changed at 0.30 percent, versus
the record low of 0.1431 percent set in September.  The government plans to auction $35 billion of five-year
notes tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year debt on June 28.  Debt Sale  Investor appetite for the safest securities helped increase
bidding at the previous two-year auction on May 22. Money
managers submitted  orders to buy  3.95 times the amount of
available debt, the most since November at the monthly auctions.  “Yields will rise,” said Kei Katayama, who buys  U.S.
government debt  in  Tokyo  at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which
manages the equivalent of $62.2 billion. “The two-year auction
may have difficulties because of Operation Twist. The  U.S.
economy  is not very strong, but I expect steady growth.”  Katayama said he is favoring shorter maturities, those that
will fall the least in price if yields rise, even after long-
term bonds beat the rest of the market this year.  U.S. 10-year yields will increase to 2.15 percent by year-
end and 2.52 percent by the middle of 2013, according to
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Europe Crisis  Treasuries rallied yesterday as investors sought a refuge
on speculation European leaders will fail to stem the euro
bloc’s debt crisis at a two-day  summit  starting June 28. Moody’s
Investors Service cut the credit ratings of 28 Spanish banks
yesterday including  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA. (BBVA)   Treasuries have returned 1.9 percent this year as of
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes,
as  Europe ’s debt crisis boosted safety demand. Thirty-year bonds
surged 5.8 percent.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks gained 1.9
percent with dividends reinvested, while the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Total Return Index of metals, fuels and agricultural
products fell 12 percent. U.S. corporate bonds returned 5
percent, the Bank of America figures show.  Corporate bonds are a haven as growth slows,  Jan Loeys , the
chief market strategist at JPMorgan Chase, said yesterday.  “High-grade credit overall is the best place to be,” he
said on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with  Stephanie Ruhle  and  Adam Johnson . “Get out of equities.”  Consumer Confidence  Today’s decline in Treasuries was tempered before a U.S.
report that economists said will show  consumer confidence  fell
to a five-month low, underpinning demand for the safest assets.  The Conference Board’s  index  dropped to 63 in June from
64.9 in May, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey. That would be the lowest outcome since January.  Fed officials led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week
extended Operation Twist by $267 billion through the end of
2012. The central bank plans to buy as much as $5.5 billion of
Treasuries due from August 2020 to May 2022 today, according to
the Fed Bank of  New York ’s  website .  The Fed also repeated its pledge to keep its target for
overnight bank lending at almost zero through at least late
2014. The two-year  yield , which tends to track the Fed’s
benchmark because of its shorter maturity, has held to a range
of 0.2 percent to 0.41 percent this year.  Policy makers lowered their estimate for 2012 growth to a
range of 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent, from 2.4 percent to 2.9
percent in April.  “We’d like to buy more bonds” in the U.S., said Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $75.2 billion in
Tokyo as chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management
Co. “The economic situation is getting worse.”  The  two-year yield  may extend gains if it holds above its
100-day moving average, currently at 0.292 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  A break above that level may see the yield climb first
toward 0.3105 percent, the high from June 20 and 21, and then to
the March 27 low at 0.3152 percent, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  