-- Renewables Make German Power Market Design Defunct, Utility Says
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2012-06-26T10:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/renewables-make-german-power-market-design-defunct-utility-says.html
Electricity generation from
renewable energy in  Germany  is reducing power prices and has
left the country with a market whose design no longer works,
according to Stadtwerke Leipzig GmbH.  Renewable generation, such as  wind  and  solar , receives
support from the German government in the form of a feed-in-
tariff, or FIT. Because there are no costs associated with the
wind and sunshine, renewables have a generating margin of zero,
as well as legally mandated priority access to the grid. As a
result, fossil fuel-fired plants are generating for fewer hours
and selling their power at cheaper prices, making them less
profitable.  “As long as renewables have zero margin costs, the market
design we have doesn’t work,” Jens Teresniak, team manager for
business development and market analysis at Stadtwerke Leipzig,
said in an interview in Leipzig on June 21. “Capacity markets
could be a solution.”  So-called capacity markets allow utilities to fix prices
for guaranteed backup power supply in advance, boosting margins
for gas and coal electricity plants as renewables output rises.
German policy makers are considering how to ensure there are
enough round-the-clock plants to keep the lights on when nuclear
reactors are phased out and renewables output falls short.  Merit Order  Increasing supply of renewable energy is one of the main
reasons electricity prices in Germany have declined, Teresniak
said. Average day-ahead electricity prices in Germany fell 18
percent to 43.49 euros ($54.36) a megawatt-hour in the first
five months of this year compared to last year, according to
data from European Energy Exchange AG compiled by Bloomberg.
Germany saw peak solar production in May and this summer will
probably see some negative prices during weekends when there is
low demand, he added.  “Renewables have shifted the merit order and now it’s like
we have two different markets, one for renewables with 20 years’
guaranteed FIT, and one competitive for conventional  power
plants ,” said Thorsten Korner, head of energy trading at
Stadtwerke Leipzig. “We have to think about integrating
renewables and how we will organize 80 percent renewables on the
grid by 2050.”  Swiss bank  UBS AG (UBSN)  said that the average load factor of hard
coal and gas plants will decline by 5 percentage points within
the next three years to 33 percent in 2015, including 13.8
gigawatts of expected plant closures.  “Renewables keep growing rapidly in Germany while
operating hours and spreads for coal and gas stations decline
further,” Patrick Hummel, a senior analyst at UBS in Zurich,
said in a research note in April.  Utilities including  EON AG (EOAN)  and  RWE AG (RWE)  have held back from
building new gas-fired plants, citing concern that the
investments won’t be profitable. RWE said on May 10 that
capacity markets aren’t needed in Germany in the near-term and
more investment in power grids would better ensure security of
supply.  Stadtwerke Leipzig buys and sells German power, gas and
European Union emissions permits and traded 55 terawatt-hours of
German power in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  