-- Rice Harvest in India Seen at Record as State Prices Increased
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-06-26T01:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/rice-harvest-in-india-seen-at-record-as-state-prices-increased.html
Rice production in  India , the
second-largest grower, is set to climb to a record after local
prices were raised, potentially allowing the nation to sustain
exports for a second year and swelling a global cereal glut.  The monsoon-sown  harvest  may gain 10 percent in the year
beginning July 1 from 90.8 million metric tons a year earlier,
said Tarsem Saini, president of the Federation of All India Rice
Millers Association. An end to a three-year ban on exports last
year and a forecast for normal rain will spur farmers to
increase planting, he said. The monsoon crop, sown from this
month, accounts for about 80 percent of annual output.  Futures have slumped 41 percent from a record in 2008 after
farmers around the world increased plantings. Global output will
climb to 466.5 million tons this year from 463.98 million tons
in 2012, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said June 12. The
global  cereal  harvest will reach a record 2.42 billion tons in
2012, exceeding consumption estimated at 2.38 billion tons, the
 United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization said June 13.  “If anybody is bullish on rice in the medium term, it will
be a risky bet,” said R.S. Seshadri, director at Tilda Riceland
Pvt., a New Delhi-based exporter. “When there is excess stocks
and bumper harvests, the stocks will come like a tsunami into
the open market.”  Stockpiles in India and Thailand, the biggest exporter, may
almost equal the world trade in rice of about 30 million tons
this year and cap any gain in prices, Seshadri said. Prices of  5
percent white rice  in  Thailand  may drop as much as 15 percent to
$520 a ton by the end of July, according to Mamadou Ciss, who is
the president of Alliance Commodities SA in Geneva and has
traded the grain for more than a quarter century.  Thai Stockpiles  Thailand’s Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra started a
state purchase program in October, buying the grain above market
rates, aiming to boost farmer incomes. The country will have
accumulated more than 12 million tons of reserves by the end of
this season, the USDA estimates.  “One way or the other, the stocks lying with the
government in Thailand will have to reach the people who want to
consume,” Tilda’s Seshadri said.  Rough rice for September delivery declined 0.3 percent to
$14.89 per 100 pounds on the Chicago Board of Trade at 7:57 a.m.
in  Singapore . Futures are 0.2 percent higher this year.  India raised the minimum  price of paddy  16 percent to a
record 1,250 rupees per 100 kilograms (220 pounds) for the 2012-
2013 season, Home Minister P. Chidambaram said June 14. The
government buys rice and wheat from farmers at set prices to
assure growers’ incomes, while selling the grains at subsidized
rates to the poor. The system protects farmers from having to
sell their crop into a market when prices are below the
government-set rates.  ‘Assured Buying’  “There is no other alternative to a crop which has an
assured buying system at a fixed rate,” Saini said in a phone
interview. Rice yields in India have been rising every year with
the use of fertilizers and pesticides, and a forecast for a
normal monsoon will boost the area, he said.  The normal area under monsoon-sown rice, also called the
kharif crop, is about 40 million hectares (98.8 million acres),
according to the farm ministry. Farmers planted 40.5 million
hectares in 2011-2012, ministry data showed. The crop was sown
in 1.87 million hectares as of June 22, according to the
ministry.  Rainfall will be 96 percent of a 50-year average in the
June-to-September monsoon season, the  India Meteorological
Department  said June 22. That’s less than the 99 percent
predicted in April. The bureau defines normal precipitation as
96 percent to 104 percent of the average rainfall received
between 1951 and 2000.  Monsoon’s Progress  The  monsoon  had a slow start this year after reaching the
southern state of Kerala four days later than the usual date of
June 1, raising concerns that sowing of the summer crops such a
rice, cotton, corn and oilseeds may be delayed.  The surge in  exports  since the ban on so-called non-basmati
rice was scrapped will encourage farmers to produce more, Saini
said. Traders shipped 4.91 million tons since the curbs were
lifted on Sept. 9, according to the food ministry.  India may export as much as 7 million tons of rice next
year as a decline in the rupee against the dollar makes supplies
from  South Asia  cheaper, Seshadri said.  “At 56 rupees per dollar, India can compete with any
country,” Seshadri said. “The rupee equation matters most.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  