-- Romania May Refrain From Lowering Rates as Leu Hits Record Low
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-06-26T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/romania-may-refrain-from-lowering-rates-as-leu-hits-record-low.html
Romania ’s central bank will probably
refrain from cutting its benchmark  interest rate  after the
sovereign-debt crisis and rising political unease helped push
the leu to a record low.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei will keep its monetary
policy rate unchanged at 5.25 percent today, according to 18 out
of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One forecast a cut by a
quarter point. A decision will be announced after 11 a.m. in
Bucharest.  “We expect the National Bank of Romania to maintain a
dovish bias,” Christian Lawrence, a London-based currency
strategist at Rabobank International, wrote in a note to clients
before the rate announcement. “We do not think the bank will
cut rates again in the near term.”  Central and eastern European central banks, including
Hungarian and Romanian policy makers, are holding off from
cutting rates to bolster recession-hit economies as the
inflation outlook points to rising prices later in the year.  Hungary left its main rate at the highest in the European
Union at 7 percent amid the fastest inflation in the 27-member
bloc. Poland kept interest rates on hold on June 6. In the  Czech
Republic , where inflation has been above the central bank’s
target for eight months, policy makers will lower borrowing
costs to 0.5 percent from 0.75 percent tomorrow, according to 20
of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Political Fight  Political bickering between Romanian Prime Minister Victor Ponta and President Traian Basescu and the European sovereign-
debt crisis triggered a sell-off in the leu, which fell to an
all-time low against the euro this month. It traded at 4.4563
per euro at 6:05 p.m. in Bucharest yesterday.  The turmoil may prompt policy makers to continue to shield
the currency from further depreciation by keeping rates
unchanged in a country which has changed governments twice this
year.  The central bank left the rate alone on May 2 following a
government collapse after cutting borrowing costs 1 percentage
point to spur the economy in the previous meeting.  Inflation, which slowed to a two-decade low last month and
helped policy makers lower the main rate, will probably quicken
from May because of a statistical base effect, though the rate
won’t exceed the 4 percent upper limit of a target range for
this year, according to the central bank. It forecasts inflation
of 3.2 percent at the end of 2012 before slowing to 3 percent
next year.  Widening Deficit  Two days after Ponta’s Cabinet took office, the
 International Monetary Fund  and the EU agreed to let the country
widen its  budget deficit  to allow a public-sector wage increase
to partly compensate for a 25 percent cut in 2010. Another wage
increase is expected in January next year to fully restore wages
to pre-austerity levels.  The budget-deficit target stands at 2.2 percent of economic
output compared with an initial 1.9 percent goal, the IMF and
the government said on May 9.  “The National Bank will keep the key rate unchanged
because the external environment has not yet settled down and
pressures on the foreign-exchange rate persist,” Banca
Comerciala Romana SA analyst Florin Sinca wrote in a report to
clients before the rate decision.  The new government’s looser fiscal-policy stance suggests
that the Romanian central bank will remain on the “cautious
side” with its monetary policy, BCR economists wrote in a
separate note.  “Political tensions are now brewing between President
Basescu and Prime Minister Ponta,” according to the BCR note.
“For the time being, we see the central bank keeping the key
rate on hold for the remainder of 2012 and even afterwards, and
will continue to keep a close eye on both external and local
developments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  