-- Romania Lawmakers Ease Referendum Rules on President Impeachment
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-06-26T12:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/romania-lawmakers-ease-referendum-rules-on-president-impeachment.html
Romania ’s Parliament approved a
section in the law governing referendums to make it easier to
impeach the president as the nation’s two top politicians bicker
over policy.  Lawmakers in the Chamber of Deputies, in which Prime
Minister Victor Ponta’s coalition government holds a majority,
voted 187 to 56 to lower the number of referendum votes needed
to validate the impeachment. More than half of voters taking
part in the referendum would be needed, instead of a majority of
all eligible voters in the country. President Traian Basescu
needs to sign the change into law for it to become effective.  Romania, which has changed governments twice this year, is
facing increased political turmoil ahead of general elections.
Ponta and Basescu have argued over who should represent the
country at the next meeting of European Union heads. Ponta also
accused Basescu of instigating accusations the premier
plagiarized his doctoral thesis.  Ponta’s political ally and head of the  Liberal Party ,  Crin Antonescu , said his party may seek to suspend Basescu.  The Parliament also approved on June 19 another law easing
the impeachment procedure by dropping the need for a notice from
the  Constitutional Court  before the suspension procedure can go
ahead and seek the citizens’ vote in a referendum.  Former Prime Minister Adrian Nastase, Ponta’s mentor,
allegedly attempted to commit suicide the night before he was
expected to go to prison for the country’s first conviction of a
top-ranking politician.  Medical Records  General Prosecutor Laura Kovesi was quoted by  Mediafax 
today as saying prosecutors are investigating the medical
records of Nastase’s suicide attempt.  The Bucharest-based newswire also quoted anti-corruption
prosecutors as saying that they are investigating a doctor and
three police officers involved in Nastase’s case, on allegations
that they hampered the jailing procedures of the former premier.  Ponta and other members of his  Social Democratic Party  have
repeatedly said that Nastase’s sentence was politically
motivated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net 
NI ROM
NI BALKANS
NI EEU
NI GOV
NI COS
NI STK
NI EU
NI EM
NI EUROPE
NI EMC
NI POL
NI IMF
NI LAW 