-- Romney Decision on VP Could Come This Week, Aide Says
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/romney-says-adverse-health-ruling-would-show-obama-wasted-term.html
Mitt Romney is prepared to select
his vice presidential running mate as soon as this week,
weighing whether to accelerate his timetable as he pushes to
deflect attacks on his business record and wealth.  The presumed Republican nominee is ready to choose the No.
2 on his ticket “anytime,” longtime adviser  Eric Fehrnstrom 
said yesterday, adding that no decision had been made.  As speculation intensified over the choice, Romney stepped
up efforts to refocus the campaign on President  Barack Obama ,
accusing him of ignoring the plight of middle-income Americans
while rewarding campaign donors with federal dollars that led to
the outsourcing of U.S. jobs.  “This is a time when it’s good to be a friend of the Obama
campaign, because you might be able to get some money for your
business,” Romney said in Jackson,  Mississippi , at an evening
event that raised $1.7 million for his campaign. “But it’s not
so good to be middle class in America.”  As Romney twice during the day branded Obama the
“outsourcer in chief,” the president returned the charge,
accusing the former Massachusetts governor of advocating
policies that would create more jobs overseas than in the U.S.  Campaigning in a part of southwestern  Ohio  traditionally
dominated by Republicans, Obama hit Romney on taxes and his
background as head of the private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC.  Outsourcing Attack  “We don’t need a president who wants to ship more jobs
overseas,” Obama told about 1,200 supporters at a campaign
forum yesterday at the Cincinnati  Music Hall .  Obama is spending four days this week campaigning and
raising money as he faces what national polls show is a close
race. Ohio, with 18 electoral votes, has been a bellwether in
modern presidential politics, voting for the winner in every
election since 1964. Also, no Republican has won the presidency
without winning the state.  Obama focused on differences between him and Romney on  tax
policy , including how corporations are taxed on earnings outside
the U.S. Citing an analysis released yesterday by economist
Kimberly Clausing in the publication Tax Notes, Obama said
Romney’s call for a so-called territorial system of taxes for
multinational corporations would create 800,000 jobs.  “There’s only one problem,” Obama said. “The jobs
wouldn’t be in America. They’d be in other countries.”  Romney Appearances  Romney is to appear at a rally outside Pittsburgh today and
is scheduled to campaign at a town hall event tomorrow in
 Bowling Green , Ohio, as he seeks to refocus the race from the
Bain-related attacks to economic hardships voters have
experienced during Obama’s term.  Fehrnstrom discussed the vice presidential decision as
Romney held a fundraiser luncheon in  Baton Rouge ,  Louisiana ,
telling reporters that “no decision’s been made.” Asked
whether an announcement could come as soon as this week, he said
it could.  “It could happen anytime between now and the convention,
but it will only happen after a decision has been made, and no
decision has been made,” Fehrnstrom added in a follow-up e-
mail.  An announcement this week -- more than five weeks before
the  Republican National Convention  starts Aug. 27 in Tampa,
 Florida  -- would defy the recent tradition in which presumptive
nominees have announced their vice presidential picks just days
before the party gatherings.  The  New York  Times reported yesterday in a  story  about
former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty ’s running-mate prospects
that unnamed friends believe Romney had reached a decision. The
story also named Senator Rob Portman of Ohio as a top contender.  Jindal Meeting  Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal , another prospective
running mate, attended yesterday’s fundraiser in Baton Rouge and
met briefly with Romney before the event.  Obama and his surrogates have spent the last several days
questioning Romney’s veracity after Securities and Exchange
Commission records surfaced that listed the Republican as the
chief executive officer of Bain in 2002, placing him at the
company three years after he said he had quit and during a
period when the firm made some deals involving companies that
fired workers or outsourced jobs overseas.  Creating Doubts  Obama campaign aides say the tactic is working, sowing
doubts about Romney’s central argument for his candidacy -- his
business experience. Strategists in both parties say the debate
over outsourcing could sway voters in politically competitive
states, particularly manufacturing-heavy battlegrounds including
Ohio and  Pennsylvania .  “People have started to question  Mitt Romney ’s business
credentials, which he’s been leading with as the reason, the
number one qualification for his presidency,”  Jen Psaki , a
spokeswoman for Obama’s campaign, told reporters traveling today
with the president.  Romney, in his bid to turn the issue against Obama, told
contributors at the Baton Rouge gathering that the president
“is taking your tax dollars and putting it in businesses owned
by contributors to his campaign, and that is smelly at best --
it stinks.”  He cited some $500 million in federal loan guarantees that
went to the electric sports car maker Fisker Automotive, a
company financed in part by a venture capital firm in which
former Vice President  Al Gore  is a partner. Fisker contracted
with a manufacturer in  Finland  to produce its first vehicle.  “The president not only took our money and put it with his
friends; he also took our money and outsourced the jobs,”
Romney told about 40 donors lunching on shrimp salad and beef
tenderloin at an event at the City Club of Baton Rouge that
raised $2 million.  Tax Returns  Romney, who has reported his net worth at as much as $250
million, is resisting calls from Democrats -- echoed in recent
days by some Republicans anxious to end a potentially damaging
storyline for him -- that he reveal more about his income taxes.
Romney has released his 2010 tax return and said he will provide
his 2011 return when it’s ready.  “We think it’s sufficient,” Fehrnstrom said yesterday.  Romney, who often says he won’t apologize for his success,
told contributors at his Mississippi event that he wants to help
the less affluent.  “I know that people in this room are probably doing
relatively well, relative to folks across this country, but not
everyone in America is doing so well right now,” Romney told
more than 300 donors at the River Hills Club in Jackson. “The
waiters and waitresses that come in and out of this room and
offer us refreshments -- they’re not having a good year. The
people of the middle class of America are really struggling.”  He said it was unfair to brand Republicans “the party of
the rich.”  “It’s an awful moniker, because that’s just not true,”
Romney said. “We’re the party of people who want to get rich,
and we’re also the party of people who want to care to help
people from getting poor. We want to help the poor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Jackson, Mississippi at  
1890 or  Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 