-- Tropical Storm Debby Edges East Toward Florida Gulf Coast
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-06-26T11:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/tropical-storm-debby-edges-eastward-toward-florida-s-gulf.html
Tropical Storm Debby edged eastward
with drenching rains and winds of 45 miles (72 kilometers) per
hour toward landfall on the Gulf coast of northern  Florida .  Debby is 85 miles west of Cedar Key, Florida, moving east
at 3 mph, the National Hurricane Center in Miami said in an
 advisory at 8 a.m.  local time. Meteorologists say the storm will
move over northern Florida in a day or two before weakening to a
depression and re-emerging later this week in the Atlantic.  Forecasters initially said system might pass through the
Gulf’s energy-production area, home to 6.5 percent of U.S.
natural gas output, 29 percent of oil production and 40 percent
of refinery capacity. Meteorologists then revised predictions
for landfall in Florida, the largest orange grower after Brazil.  “The key here with Debby is the heavy rain,” said Eric
Leister, a meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
Pennsylvania. Little change in storm strength is expected until
Debby makes landfall, the NHC said.  While tropical storm-force winds extended as much as 240
miles from the center over parts of the Florida Gulf Coast, the
 current projected track  shows heavy rain, a storm surge and
rising tides will flood Gulf coastal areas, the NHC said.  Production Halted  Companies including ConocoPhillips and  BP Plc (BP/)  had halted 35
percent of gas output and 44 percent of oil production in the
Gulf of Mexico, according to the U.S. Bureau of Safety and
Environmental Enforcement.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Hess Corp.,  Enterprise Products
Partners (EPD) ,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , BHP Billiton Ltd.,  W&T
Offshore (WTI) ,  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Apache Corp. (APA)  and BP said they began returning
workers to Gulf platforms yesterday.  While growers said orange groves in Florida escaped major
damage from Debby, the storm is expected to produce 4 to 8
inches (10 to 20 centimeters) of additional rain over northern
Florida in the next couple of days. Some isolated areas may
receive as much as 25 inches, the NHC said.  National Hurricane Center tracks for Debby have varied
significantly. The center predicted June 24 that the storm would
move west toward Texas, then forecast a Louisiana landfall. The
track changed again to show a Florida landfall.  The variance in the forecast tracks is caused by
differences in computer models, said  Dennis Feltgen , an NHC
spokesman in Miami.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  