-- Rothschild’s David Resnick Said to Join Third Avenue
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-06-26T16:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/rothschild-s-david-resnick-said-to-join-third-avenue.html
David Resnick, chairman of global
financing advisory at Rothschild  North America  Inc., is leaving
the investment bank to become president at Third Avenue
Management LLC, said four people familiar with the matter.  Resnick had been with Rothschild for more than 12 years and
advised on high-profile bankruptcies such as  American Airlines ,
auto supplier Delphi Corp. and advised  Access Industries  on the
bankruptcy at chemical company LyondellBasell.  His move was announced internally at Rothschild and Third
Avenue yesterday, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the information is private.  Resnick, 52, will start at Third Avenue in September, said
two of the people. He will report to David Barse, the chief
executive at Third Avenue, the people said, and help manage the
firm while expanding its alternative-investment business. Third
Avenue has about $13 billion in assets under management and is
majority-owned by Beverly, Massachusetts-based  Affiliated
Managers Group Inc. (AMG) , which holds stakes in more than two dozen
investment firms.  Barse wasn’t immediately reachable to comment. A
spokeswoman at Third Avenue didn’t return a call seeking
comment.  Separately, Rothschild is making other changes in senior
management at its North America operations. James Lawrence, the
CEO of Rothschild’s North American unit, is transitioning into
the role of chairman for North America with fewer day-to-day
duties, said two of the people. Lawrence will continue to be co-
head of the global investment bank.  Rothschild managing director Steve Ledoux will be head of
North American global financial advisory, which includes mergers
& acquisitions and restructuring, said the people. Ledoux had
been a co-head of the restructuring practice, which often
represents large companies in distress or bankruptcies.  Lawrence and Ledoux’s new roles were announced internally
several weeks ago, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  