-- Rusal Said to Face Replacing Chairman After Five Months
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-06-26T22:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/rusal-said-to-face-replacing-chairman-cheung-after-five-months.html
United Co. Rusal (486)  may have to replace
Chairman  Barry Cheung  in August, five months after he took over
the post at the world’s largest aluminum producer, according to
four people with knowledge of the situation.  Cheung, head of the Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange, may quit
the Rusal job to devote more time to his roles in the Chinese
city, two of the people said, asking not to be identified
because the information isn’t public. Cheung is also chairman of
the city’s  Urban Renewal Authority  and headed Leung Chun-ying’s
successful campaign for election as Hong Kong chief executive.  Shareholder Victor Vekselberg quit as board chairman in
March during a dispute with billionaire Chief Executive Officer
 Oleg Deripaska  to have Rusal sell its 25 percent of Russia’s
biggest mining company, OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel , allowing the
aluminum producer to cut debt and pay dividends. Cheung was put
forward to succeed him by Deripaska’s En+ Group holding company.  Matthias Warnig, a former East German Stasi agent who has
known Russian President  Vladimir Putin  since at least 1991, may
be invited to head the board, two of the people said. Warnig
joined Rusal’s board last month on a nomination from En+ Group.
He is managing director of the OAO Gazprom-led Nord Stream AG
gas pipeline to  Germany , was elected board chairman of oil
pipeline operator OAO Transneft last year and is a director on
state-run OAO Rosneft’s board.  ‘Hasty’ Decision  Cheung said he won’t comment on “rumor and gossip.” Vera Kurochkina, Rusal’s spokeswoman, declined to comment on
speculation. Warnig couldn’t be reached for comment.  Vekselberg’s Sual Partners, through which he and fellow
billionaire Len Blavatnik control about 15.8 percent of Rusal,
voted against Cheung’s appointment, calling the decision “hasty
and not optimal” in a statement.  En+ Group bought a 10 percent stake in the Hong Kong
Mercantile Exchange in 2010.  “Rusal’s chairman position is more of a prestigious post,
than one which influences the company’s day-to-day management,”
Kirill Chuyko, an analyst at UBS AG in Moscow, said by phone.
Minority investors don’t care who takes this post while the
major shareholders may consider it an important issue during
their dispute, Chuyko said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  