-- Russia Must Drop Assad Before Talks, U.S. Official Says
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-06-26T23:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/russia-must-drop-assad-before-talks-u-s-official-says.html
A meeting of world powers to discuss
ending the conflict in Syria won’t happen unless Russia first
agrees that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad must be replaced, a
U.S. State Department official said.  United Nations Special Envoy  Kofi Annan  is seeking to
convene a June 30 gathering in Geneva to persuade major powers
and neighboring states to support a political transition to end
the Syrian conflict, which has claimed more than 10,000 lives,
according to human rights groups.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  spoke with Annan from
her plane en route to Helsinki for the start of a three-nation
tour that includes Russia, and it was unclear if the meeting on
Syria would take place, a U.S. diplomat told reporters traveling
with Clinton on condition of anonymity because of the
sensitivity of the issue.  Annan wants to include foreign ministers from the five
permanent members of the UN Security Council -- China, France,
Russia, the U.K., and the U.S. -- plus representatives of the
European Union, the  Arab League  and regional states including
 Turkey , Qatar,  Iraq ,  Saudi Arabia  and  Iran , according to a June
25 letter Annan wrote to Clinton. Syria wouldn’t be represented.  Annan proposed the conference in Geneva after a monitoring
mission he led was suspended in the face of continued warfare.
That has put at risk the future of the mission, which is up for
renewal July 20.  The team of about 300 observers won’t be able to resume
their work because conditions have become too dangerous, UN
peacekeeping chief Herve Ladsous told the Security Council
yesterday, according to a UN diplomat present at a closed-door
briefing.  Including Syria  The move to include Iran in the proposed conference is
complicating efforts to end the crisis. Russia said such an
international conference would be deficient without Iran, and
foreign ministers should lead it.  “The ministerial level is the minimum necessary to try to
reverse the current situation,” Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , who’s indicated that he would attend, told reporters
yesterday in Jordan.  The U.S. doesn’t “think that Iran has a place at the
table” because it is “aiding and abetting the Assad regime on
the ground in the murdering of its own people,” State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday at a press
briefing in  Washington .  Russia’s Move  The Obama administration regards the Russian move to
include Iran as an attempt to protect longtime ally and arms
client Assad without being blamed for blocking Annan’s effort to
negotiate an end to the crisis, said two U.S. officials who
asked not to be identified to discuss the administration’s
internal deliberations.  Clinton has no interest in attending a Geneva conference
that includes Iran and she believes is unlikely to add to the
pressure on Assad to surrender power, the officials said.  “We want to make sure that if we do this, it’s not going
to be an empty meeting; that it’s going to actually produce
results for the Syrian people,” Nuland said at the press
briefing yesterday.  Clinton and Lavrov will “continue the discussion” on
Syria when they meet June 29 in  St. Petersburg , Russia, Nuland
said.  The danger that the crisis could escalate rose yesterday in
the aftermath of the June 22 downing of a Turkish warplane by
Syrian forces.  Syria’s Version  Russia sides with Syria’s version of events: The plane
violated Syria’s airspace, and Syria didn’t know its identity.
Intercepted radio communication among Syrian authorities
“clearly demonstrates” that Syria was “fully aware of the
circumstances and the fact that the aircraft belonged to
Turkey,” according to a June 24 letter Turkey submitted to the
UN Security Council.  The incident has drawn Turkey deeper into a 16-month
conflict that risks spilling into the rest of the  Middle East .
Turkey, which shares its longest border with Syria, said it’s
ready to open fire on any Syrian forces that approach its
territory and are deemed a threat.  “As dictators fighting for survival often do, Assad may
have overplayed his hand,” said  George Lopez , a former United
Nations sanctions investigator who’s now at the Kroc Institute
for International Peace Studies at the University of  Notre Dame 
in  Indiana . “Turkey’s response that it has changed its military
rules of engagement along the border means it has become a more
sensitive flash point.”  ‘Clear Danger’  The downing of the F-4 Phantom jet shows Assad poses a
“clear and present danger” to Turkey, as well as to the Syrian
people, Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told
lawmakers from his party in Ankara yesterday. “Any military
element that approaches the Turkish border from Syria in a way
that may pose a risk or danger will be viewed as a threat and
treated as a military target.”  Erdogan’s more bellicose tone comes after Syrian security
forces have carried out frequent operations against opposition
forces near the border area. Turkey shares a border of more than
800 kilometers (500 miles) with Syria.  President  Barack Obama  and top American military officials
remain opposed to U.S. military intervention in Syria, according
to the two U.S. officials. Both said the calculus could change.  The rising tensions on the Syrian-Turkish border or
increased human-rights abuses by the Syrian military and allied
militias could prompt a move to create a secure enclave inside
Syria for opponents of the regime, the officials said.  Such a move would require establishing a no-fly zone above
and around the enclave, and that in turn would require a broader
campaign to destroy or neutralize Syria’s air defenses, which
one of the officials said are more formidable than the ones NATO
faced in  Libya .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  