-- Russia Billionaires Fund $1 Million ‘Jewish Nobel’ in Israel
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-06-26T19:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/russian-billionaires-fund-1-million-jewish-nobel-with-israel.html
Mikhail Fridman , a billionaire
shareholder in Russia’s  Alfa Group , helped create a $1 million
“Jewish Nobel Prize” to be awarded annually with the Israeli
government.  The Genesis prize will be awarded for global achievements 
in various professional fields, the sciences or the arts to 
highlight the contribution of Jews to world history, according 
to a statement e-mailed by Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s office today.  “The prize symbolizes Jews’ great contribution in human
development and will be a source of pride for young Jews around
the world,” Netanyahu said in the statement.  Genesis Philanthropy Group, co-founded by Fridman, will
finance the award, which the prime minister will present at a
ceremony each year around the Passover holiday, according to the
statement. Jewish Agency Chairman Natan Sharansky will head the
selection committee.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  met with Netanyahu in
Jerusalem yesterday and with Palestinian Authority President
Mahmoud Abbas in the West Bank city of Bethlehem today. Russia,
a member of the so-called Quartet of world powers trying to
advance Israeli-Palestinian peace talks, is seeking to host
negotiators in Moscow. More than 1 million Russian speakers live
in Israel, or about 15 percent of the population, after waves of
emigration from the former  Soviet Union .  Three Years  “The Genesis Prize has nothing to do with political ties
between Russia and Israel,” Genesis CEO and co-founder  Stan
Polovets  said by e-mail. “It’s only appropriate that the prize
to recognize outstanding Jewish achievement is awarded by the
head of state of Israel.” The group has initiatives around the
world, in North America, Germany as well as Russia and Ukraine.  Genesis worked for more than three years with Netanyahu,
his office and Sharansky to design the prize, Polovets said. The
endowment will ensure the prize is awarded in perpetuity, he
said, without elaborating on the amount.  Fridman has built up his wealth through Alfa Group’s
holdings in oil, finance, telecommunications and retail. Alfa is
part of the AAR group,  BP Plc (BP/) ’s partner in TNK-BP, Russia’s
third-largest oil producer. Fridman submitted his resignation as
TNK-BP chief executive officer last month, later saying the
50-50 partnership no longer served the shareholders’ interests.  Genesis was established in 2007 by Fridman, Alfa Bank
Chairman Petr Aven and TNK-BP Executive Director  German Khan , as
well as Polovets, who is also CEO of AAR, and Alex Knaster, a
board member at both Alfa Bank and TNK-BP, according to its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  