-- Samuelsson Memoir Traces Rise From Ethiopia to Obama
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-06-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/samuelsson-memoir-traces-rise-from-ethiopia-to-obama.html
When chef-trainee  Marcus Samuelsson 
was looking to move on from a position in France, he wrote
letters to  David Letterman  and  Oprah Winfrey , suggesting they
branch out into restaurants.  Fortunately, he also wrote to Hakan Swahn, founder of the
Manhattan restaurant Aquavit and the only one who wrote back.  In his just-published memoir, “Yes, Chef” ( Random House ),
Samuelsson recounts his rapid rise. Orphaned at an early age in
Ethiopia, he was adopted by a young Swedish couple and began
learning his trade from his grandmother, a professional cook.  The “Top Chef Masters” winner was only 24 when he was
taken on at the Swedish restaurant Aquavit. He quickly became
executive chef and earned a three-star review from the  New York 
Times. He was the youngest chef to achieve that rating from the
paper.  He left the restaurant after a dispute with his business
partners over his TV earnings, and for a while he was broke.  The memoir’s narrative ends at New York’s Red Rooster in
Harlem, which he opened in 2010 to present his international
twist on soul food and change the face of dining in the area.  We spoke over lunch at a table outside the restaurant on a
blazing hot day while Samuelsson ate the special, ramen noodles.  Cole: The book’s first sentence says, “I have never seen a
picture of my mother.” Was it painful to recall those years?  Samuelsson: I felt torn as a child, but I realized that I
got out of Ethiopia. I was saved.  Cole: How were you able to connect to Harlem and African-
American culture as an Ethiopian and a person raised in Sweden?  Miles Davis  Samuelsson: African-Americans have no idea how important
they are to other people of color around the world. If you look
at any type of minority movement, it was pegged to African-
Americans. There was  Miles Davis  and Marvin Gaye and  Aretha Franklin  and  Condoleezza Rice  and then  Colin Powell  and
eventually  Barack Obama . They were images seen throughout the
world.  Cole: Are you still bitter about being forced to leave
Aquavit?  Samuelsson: There is no bitterness. I feel extremely
appreciative. But I believe you create your own chances.  My (biological) father is a tribal leader in Ethiopia. He’s
80-plus years old in a country where the average age of men is
42. When I see him, I see where that sense of push-through comes
from.  Being Perfect  Cole: You had a daughter with a woman in  Austria  while you
were working there as a young chef.  Samuelsson: I was a child then, but I had adult people help
me deal with it as an adult. I was completely embarrassed. I
didn’t want to be that black man that left his child behind, and
I wanted to hold myself up to a standard that I wouldn’t fail in
any way. I had to be perfect.  Cole: What was the biggest game changer for your career?  Samuelsson: Having the honor to cook for the Obamas was
definitely the highlight of my career, but also to serve the
community of Harlem through Red Rooster.  Harlem was excluded from the conversation about dining. My
biggest job is to interrupt the conversation and offer what fine
dining can look like. As a black person, I have to engage in a
different way than  Thomas Keller  or  Daniel Boulud .  Cole: For the Obamas’ first state dinner, you made a
vegetarian cornbread with chutney, potato and eggplant salad,
and green curry prawns. Why that menu?  Samuelsson: The guest of honor, the prime minister of
 India , was a vegetarian. I looked at the White House as a home.
Once you have the narrative of a home, it’s easier to figure out
what the meal should be.  (Patrick Cole is a reporter for Muse, the arts and culture
team of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on dining.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 