-- SEC Money-Fund Rule Said to Include Capital Or Floating Shares
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/sec-money-market-rule-said-to-include-capital-floating-shares.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission was presented with a 337-page staff proposal to
require the $2.5 trillion money-market fund industry to float
share prices or hold more capital and curb redemptions,
according to a person familiar with the proposal.  The proposal may put the SEC on course for a clash among
commissioners and with the industry. The plan won’t advance if
the three commissioners who have already raised concerns about
its impact on money funds hold firm. If SEC Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  wins enough support to release the proposal for public
comment, the agency will face renewed opposition from the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce and  Federated Investors Inc. (FII)  Chief Executive
 Christopher Donahue , who has threatened to sue if a rule is
ultimately adopted.  SEC staff delivered the measure to the five commissioners
on June 25, two people said. It tracks with provisions Schapiro
outlined in testimony last week before the Senate Banking
Committee and includes multiple questions for the public, the
people said.  The two Republican commissioners, Troy Parades and Daniel Gallagher, are opposed to additional regulation for money-market
funds and  Luis Aguilar , a Democrat, has expressed concern about
the impact on the industry of changes in money-market fund
rules.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on the
proposal.  Schapiro’s Campaign  Since November, Schapiro has spoken of the need for money
funds to float their share price, which would be more realistic
than the current fixed $1 share price. State, municipal and
corporate treasurers, which often rely on investments that carry
a stable-value, have joined the industry in criticizing the
measure.  Money funds would have the option under the proposal of
keeping their stable share price. If they chose that path they
would have to raise capital and prevent customers from
withdrawing all their money at once.  Washington business groups including the  Investment Company
Institute  and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have led the fight
against the changes sought by Schapiro. They have argued that
requiring net asset values to float or preventing full
redemptions could make the funds less valuable to investors.  The Chamber of Commerce has been especially vocal,
blanketing a Washington subway station adjoining SEC
headquarters with advertisements questioning the need for a
regulatory overhaul and releasing a study last week suggesting
that even proposing changes could roil markets. The chamber said
the study concluded that the rules would lead commercial paper
users to seek financing from banks, where rates are almost 14
times higher.  Lawsuit Threatened  Donahue, head of Pittsburgh-based Federated Investors Inc.,
the third-biggest U.S. money-fund provider, said Jan. 27 that
his firm would sue the SEC if it went forward with a proposed
rule. Donahue and John McGonigle, Federated’s chief legal
officer, met with Aguilar on June 22 to discuss the money fund
proposal, according to an agency  memo .  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  and Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  have sided with Schapiro in her
bid to rewrite money-fund rules. She told the Senate Banking
Committee last week that even with rules the SEC adopted in 2010
to improve liquidity standards at money funds, she is concerned
that the industry remains vulnerable to runs.  “Every morning when I pick up the newspaper and read about
an earthquake in  Japan  or problems in European financial
institutions, the first question I ask our staff is, ‘What is
money market fund exposure to these incidents and to these
institutions?’” she told the Senate panel.  2008 Collapse  Money-market funds were once considered among the safest
investments available. Financial regulators grew more concerned
after the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve
Primary Fund contributed to a freeze in global financial
markets. The run calmed after the Treasury Department
temporarily guaranteed money-fund shareholders against losses
and the Fed began buying fund assets at face value to help them
meet redemptions.  SEC members could meet as soon as next month to vote on
sending the proposal for public comment. The agency would have
to hold another vote before completing the rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  