-- Falcone Said to Face Lawsuit From Regulators Over Loan
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-06-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/sec-said-to-authorize-lawsuit-against-harbinger-s-falcone.html
Philip Falcone , the billionaire
hedge-fund manager whose largest investment went bankrupt after
being blocked by regulators, now faces a showdown in court with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Falcone, the 49-year-old founder of Harbinger Capital
Partners LLC, may be sued by the regulator as soon as this week
over claims he improperly borrowed client money to pay his
taxes, according to two people familiar with the matter. He may
also face claims that he gave preferential treatment to  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , an investor in his fund, and manipulated
markets when trading bonds of MAAX Holdings Inc., said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the matter isn’t
public.  “Any allegations by the SEC of improprieties by Mr.
Falcone or Harbinger are neither supported by the facts or the
law,” said Matthew Dontzin, an attorney for Falcone. “Should a
lawsuit be brought, it will be contested vigorously.”  The SEC action is the second blow in less than two months
for Falcone, a former Harvard hockey center who built a $26
billion hedge fund by 2008 with a successful bet against
subprime mortgages. Having suffered $23 billion in losses and
withdrawals from the peak, Falcone is now fighting to keep
control of his empire. LightSquared Inc., Harbinger Capital’s
biggest investment, filed for bankruptcy in May.  Goldman Treatment  The SEC voted to authorize enforcement staff to sue, the
people said, after Falcone in 2009 took out a $113 million loan
from his Special Situations fund to pay personal taxes. The loan
was disclosed in the fund’s annual financial statement the
following March. At the time he borrowed the money, clients were
barred from pulling money from the fund. Falcone subsequently
repaid the loan with interest.  That same year, with client capital locked up, Harbinger
allowed Goldman Sachs, which at the end of 2008 had $1 billion
invested in two Harbinger funds, to redeem some money from the
firm, said one of the people with knowledge of the SEC’s plan.  In April 2011, Harbinger told clients that the government
was looking into whether it had engaged in market manipulation
in its trading of the debt securities of an undisclosed company
from 2006 to 2008. The company whose debt Harbinger traded was
MAAX Holdings, a Canadian maker of bathroom fixtures, said the
person.  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC in  Washington ,
declined to comment.  Tough Spot  “He’s in a very tough spot,” said Ronen Schwartzman,
founder of Ten Capital Advisors LLC, a New York-based firm that
advises clients on investing in hedge funds. “It's going to be
difficult for him to raise money from investors ever again.”  Falcone grew up in Chisholm,  Minnesota , the youngest of
nine children. His mother worked in a shirt factory, and his
father never made more than $14,000 a year as a superintendent
at a local utility. He headed east to  Harvard University  in
1980, and after graduation joined a professional hockey team in
Malmo,  Sweden , where he played until he was sidelined by a leg
injury. He ended up on  Wall Street  in the mid-1980s, trading
high-yield debt at Kidder, Peabody & Co. in  New York .  In 2001, Harbert Management Corp., a Birmingham, Alabama-
based money-management company, was looking for someone to start
a fund to trade distressed debt and came across a PowerPoint
presentation from Falcone. Harbert hired him to start what
became Harbinger, giving him $25 million to get the fund going.  27-Room Mansion  In 2006, he put on the trade that would make his name.
Falcone bought credit-default swaps, contracts that rose in
value as the price of interest-paying securities constructed
from individual home mortgages lost value. When the housing
market collapsed in 2007 and defaults soared, Falcone got rich.  With the proceeds of that wager he spent $49 million on a
27-room mansion near Central Park in  Manhattan  once owned by
Penthouse publisher Bob Guccione. He and his wife Lisa became
benefactors of New York’s High Line elevated park and the  New
York City Ballet . Lisa, who was raised in Spanish Harlem by a
single mother on welfare, became a film producer and was often
photographed in society pages in designer outfits.  After the successful housing wager, Falcone tied his
fortune as hedge-fund manager, and about $3 billion of investor
assets, to LightSquared, which accounted for about 40 percent of
the firm’s main fund as of April. Most hedge-fund managers have
shunned illiquid holdings since the 2008 financial crisis, when
they were forced to block client redemptions to avoid a fire
sale, and investors have complained about the level of
concentration in Falcone’s funds.  Buffett’s Example  LightSquared filed for bankruptcy after the Federal
Communications Commission said it would withdraw preliminary
approval to build out a nationwide high-speed wireless network
because it interfered with GPS devices. Last week, an affiliate
of the company filed court papers seeking to borrow as much as
$30 million to keep operating while under court protection from
bankruptcy.  In an interview in April, Falcone made it clear he wasn’t
giving up. He said he was considering a legal fight against the
government, which had previously granted him permission to start
building out the network.  He also said he was seeking to move away from hedge funds
and building a public holding company, much like  Warren
Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway, that would be better suited for
long-term investments.  To help secure more permanent capital for investments,
Falcone’s funds in 2009 bought Zapata Corp., a onetime oil
driller, and turned it into Harbinger Group, a holding company
that can raise capital for long-term investments. Falcone plans
to use Harbinger Group to finance investments in six industries,
including consumer products, financial products and natural
resources, according to a 2010 regulatory filing.  ‘Highly Uncommon’  Harbinger Group last year agreed to buy Old Mutual U.S.
Life Holdings Inc., a provider of fixed-annuity and life
insurance, for $350 million. Harbinger Group also owns a
majority stake in  Spectrum Brands Holdings Inc. (SPB) , a Madison,
Wisconsin-based maker of pet food and batteries.  The company said in May 2011 that it was raising $280
million from a group led by  Fortress Investment Group LLC. (FIG) 
Harbinger Group has a market capitalization of $971 million.  Falcone stopped investor withdrawals from his hedge fund
for a second time in December, after the fund told investors it
had received a Wells Notice from the SEC, an indication that the
regulator was contemplating a lawsuit.  Falcone previously said he received an opinion letter from
outside counsel over the $113 million loan.  “It’s highly uncommon for a manager or sponsor of the fund
to borrow money from the fund,” said Ron Geffner, a partner at
Sadis & Goldberg LLP in New York that represents hedge funds. It
“is wrought with conflicts of interest.”  Falcone has said in the past that allegations of
preferential treatment of some clients were “completely and
utterly untrue.” Harbinger’s offering documents allow it to
give certain investors different terms than other clients,
according to a person who has seen the documents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  