-- Security Leaks Require U.S. Congressional Probe, Republicans Say
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-06-26T16:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/security-leaks-require-u-s-congressional-probe-republicans-say.html
Congress should conduct its own
probe into unauthorized disclosures of classified information,
according to Senate Republicans who said they believe the leaks
came from officials in the Obama White House.  Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , a Republican on the Senate
Armed Services Committee, joined other lawmakers who said such a
probe is needed. He said plans by the  Justice Department  to
examine selected leaks won’t be independent.  “If we’re not going to get the kind of answers the
American people deserve out of the attorney general and out of
this administration, I think it falls to Congress to conduct its
own independent investigation,” Cornyn, who also heads the
 National Republican Senatorial Committee , told reporters today
in a news conference at the Capitol.  Republicans say the White House has engaged in intelligence
leaks to bolster President Barack Obama’s national-security
credentials ahead of the November election.  Among recent unauthorized disclosures were that the U.S.
and Israel created the Stuxnet computer virus that damaged
Iran’s nuclear centrifuges, that President  Barack Obama 
personally approves targets for drone attacks, and that a plot
by al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula to bomb a U.S.-bound
airliner was foiled because intelligence officials had
infiltrated the terrorist group.  Obama has denied that White House officials leaked
classified information, calling the notion that they would do so
“offensive.” Attorney General Eric Holder has named two U.S.
attorneys to investigate the leaks.  Polygraph Tests  Yesterday, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper
said polygraph tests used by U.S. intelligence agencies must
include a question about unauthorized disclosures of classified
information. Clapper also said the intelligence community’s
inspector general will lead an independent investigation of
certain unauthorized disclosures if the Justice Department
decides not to prosecute.  Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the top Republican on the
Senate Armed Services Committee, joined Cornyn in calling for a
congressional investigation. While Clapper’s polygraph tests are
helpful, they don’t go far enough in determining what occurred,
McCain said.  “It’s laudable he’s taken that step, but the fact is we
need to find out what happened and who did it,” he said.  Senator  Saxby Chambliss  of Georgia, the top Republican on
the Senate intelligence panel, said lawmakers in both parties
are trying to add language to a pending intelligence
reauthorization bill that “discourages people from committing
leaks in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  