-- Serbia’s Sole Steel Mill to Shut Down for Three Months
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-06-26T14:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/serbia-s-sole-steel-mill-to-shut-down-in-july-for-three-months.html
  Zelezara Smederevo d.o.o.,   Serbia ’s
sole steel plant, will be shut in the first week of July for at
least three months as officials of the unprofitable company and
the government consider how to rescue it.  The decision was made due to a need “to change the system
of financing,” Zelezara’s management said in an e-mail today,
adding that it is difficult to anticipate when the plant can
obtain sufficient raw materials for a “continuous work of the
furnaces.”  The management expects the situation to improve toward the
end of September, they said. By that time, Zelezara should know
if it finds a strategic partner or a long-term buyer of its
products. Yesterday, Economy Minister Nebojsa Ciric said the
government “won’t let production come to a standstill,” even
though the Smederevo-based plant is still posting a loss “month
after month.”  The government, which has twice extended the deadline in a
tender for the sale of Zelezara, giving potential investors
until Sept. 10 to make an offer, is looking for a partner who
would acquire a stake, prop up sales and provide raw materials
at lower cost, Ciric said.  Ciric’s comments yesterday were in response to June 25
media reports that the government plans to switch off the last
of the two furnaces at Zelezara on July 5. Former owner  U.S.
Steel Corp. (X)  halted one of the two furnaces last year before
selling the plant back to Serbia in January for $1.  Production Capacity  The plant, which makes hot- and cold-rolled steel products,
has a capacity to produce 2.2 million tons a year, according to
the company’s website.  Current output is about 60,000 tons a month and the
government spent at least 30 million euros ($37.5 million) over
the first four months to maintain production, Mileta Gujanicic,
union leader at Zelezara, said in a phone interview. The unions
are against a shutdown because “there are more than 6,000
businesses in the country that depend on Zelezara. Shutting the
plant would have terrible impact on the economy.”  The government has offered to pay employees 60 percent of
their wages while the furnace is idled, which would cost less
than covering production losses, “but workers want to work, we
will organize protests against closure if need be,” Gujanicic
said.  Zelezara’s operating loss widened to 12.53 billion dinars
($136.6 million) in 2011 from 11.04 billion dinars in 2010. Its
accumulated losses exceeded its capital by 34.8 billion dinars,
according to financial reports submitted to the Serbian Business
Registers Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net  or
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  