-- Shafiq Heads to Saudi Arabia Amid Corruption Allegations
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-06-26T13:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/shafiq-heads-to-saudi-arabia-amid-corruption-allegations.html
Ahmed Shafik, who unsuccessfully
challenged Mohamed Mursi for  Egypt ’s presidency, traveled to
 Saudi Arabia  to perform a religious rite, his campaign adviser
said, in a move that came shortly after corruption allegations
were referred to an investigating judge.  Shafik, who served as  Hosni Mubarak ’s last prime minister,
had been cast by the Mursi and the Muslim Brotherhood as a
candidate aiming at reviving the former president’s government.
He lost to the Brotherhood’s candidate after a race that
polarized Egyptians.  The career air force officer and former civil aviation
minister under Mubarak was among several officials, including
the ousted president, named in lawsuits alleging land usurpation
that benefited an air force pilots’ association, according to a
faxed statement from the prosecutor-general’s office. Youssef Wali, a former agriculture minister, was also named in the
claims referred to the judge, the prosecutor said.  Shafik flew to  Abu Dhabi  early today with several family
members, his campaign spokesman, Ahmed Sarhan, said by phone. He
was then heading to Saudi Arabia to perform the Lesser
Pilgrimage before returning to Egypt to start a new political
party, Sarhan said, adding that he flew out on  Etihad Airways .  Mursi, who is working to form a government before the
scheduled handover of power by the ruling military council, has
said he wants to bring to justice those who committed crimes
under Mubarak’s government. While his call resonated among the
youth groups that participated in last year’s uprising, Mursi
has also said Egypt needs unity and that he isn’t looking to
settle old scores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  