-- Shark Oil for HIV Shot Takes Cue From Hemingway’s Old Man
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-06-27T11:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/shark-oil-for-aids-takes-cue-from-hemingway-s-old-man-health.html
The aging fisherman in Ernest Hemingway’s novel “The Old Man and the Sea” swilled shark
liver oil to ward off colds and flu. Now  Novartis AG (NOVN)  is betting
it can help protect against AIDS.  Novartis is teaming up with  Sanofi (SAN) , adding a boosting agent
to the French drugmaker’s earlier attempt at making an AIDS
vaccine. That first effort lost its punch over time. The new
combination represents the most advanced attempt to develop an
effective shot against the deadly pathogen. Human tests are
scheduled to start next year or early in 2014.  HIV infection, which causes AIDS, was once a death
sentence. Today the disease can be blunted with drugs but only a
vaccine can deliver a knock-out blow. If the Novartis-Sanofi
project pays off, it will be the world’s first effective vaccine
against AIDS, which has killed 30 million people over 30 years.  “It’s got a good chance of success,” said  Nelson Michael ,
director of the U.S. Military HIV Research Program, which is
also participating in the project. “We’re going to need a
vaccine to wipe this thing off the planet.”  Developing a vaccine against AIDS, which infects a new
person every 12 seconds, is one of the biggest challenges facing
the medical research community. The subject will be discussed at
an AIDS conference in  Washington  next month and serve as the
focus of another gathering in  Boston  in September.  HIV has proved a wily foe, constantly mutating to defeat
virus-fighting drugs. Because vaccines work by training the
immune system to recognize a pathogen, researchers have
struggled against an ever-changing target.  Staying Power  Previous attempts by Sanofi, VaxGen Inc. and Merck & Co.
with single vaccines have all ended in failure. Now Sanofi and
Novartis are seeking to defeat HIV with a two-pronged approach
to marshal the body’s defenses against the virus.  There are a handful of experimental shots currently being
tested to protect against HIV. The one that combines Sanofi’s
ALVAC with the Novartis shark liver oil booster known as MF59 is
the furthest along, said Nina Russell, deputy director of HIV at
the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , which is providing funding.  “The next generation products, even if all goes well, are
significantly behind,” she said in a telephone interview.
“This certainly affords us the opportunity, if we can get to a
sufficient level of efficacy, to have a significant impact on
the epidemic.”  Gene Smuggling  Sanofi’s ALVAC stunned researchers in 2009 when, used with
another vaccine from VaxGen in a test of 16,000 volunteers in
Thailand, it reduced HIV infections by 31 percent over three
years. Its efficacy reached 60 percent after the first year,
then waned. Novartis is hoping its booster, already used to
stimulate immunity in its Fluad seasonal influenza vaccine, will
give ALVAC more staying power.  “We need to make sure that we maintain the immunity
longer, and I think MF59 is going to do that,” said Rino Rappuoli, who heads vaccine research at  Basel , Switzerland-based
Novartis.  ALVAC uses a canary pox virus that’s been disabled so it
doesn’t sicken humans to smuggle three HIV genes into the body.
That fools the immune system into thinking it’s under attack
from HIV, prompting it to pump out defensive T-cells that are
then primed to ward off the virus in case of a genuine attack.  The Thai study results prompted Paris-based Sanofi to seek
a partner “with industrial muscle” to continue investigating
ALVAC’s potential after VaxGen had given its rights to a non-
profit organization, said Jim Tartaglia, vice president of
research and development for new vaccines at the company.  “Novartis quickly came to mind,” Tartaglia, who is also
one of the inventors of ALVAC, said in a telephone interview
from Swiftwater,  Pennsylvania .  Rivals Work Together  Novartis and Sanofi, which compete in selling vaccines
against flu and meningococcal disease, are trying to improve on
the results of the Thai test in groups at high risk of
infection.  One clinical trial will test the product in gay and
bisexual men in Thailand, and the other in heterosexuals in
 South Africa , which has more people with HIV than any other
nation. The results probably won’t be available until 2019, said
 Elizabeth Adams , the chief medical officer at the U.S.  National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases’  AIDS division.  Adams co-chairs the group planning the tests, which
includes her agency, the Gates Foundation, the U.S. military,
the Seattle-based HIV Vaccine Trials Network, Sanofi and
Novartis in a coalition dubbed the Pox-Protein Public Private
Partnership, or P5. The NIAID and Gates are funding the project.  ‘Good for the Eyes’  While participants in the Thai trial received six shots
over six months, those in the South African study will get as
many as eight injections over a year in an effort to make the
protection more durable, according to Adams.  Novartis acquired the MF59 booster from Chiron Corp., which
it bought for $5.3 billion in 2006. Chiron developed the milky
liquid based on  squalene , a chemical produced by the human liver
and extracted for commercial use from shark liver oil, with an
HIV vaccine in mind in the 1990s, before research setbacks in
the field caused it to shift the product to flu, according to
Rappuoli.  People on the coasts of Norway and  Sweden  have used shark
liver oil for centuries to help heal wounds and treat
respiratory and digestive illnesses,  according  to the  American
Cancer Society . In Hemingway’s book, which describes the
struggle of a fisherman with a giant marlin, the protagonist
drinks a cup of the oil each day because it’s “very good
against all colds and grippes” and is “good for the eyes.”  Arsenal of Weapons  Novartis uses the squalene extracted from shark livers to
make MF59, Rappuoli said. He’s quick to add that about 95
percent of the compound harvested from the fish is used for
cosmetics. Scientists are working on ways to derive the compound
from olive oil, he said.  In the vaccine, MF59 will be injected with an HIV protein
known as gp120 that HIV uses to gain entry to cells. That will
prompt the immune system to pump out antibodies. The combination
is being developed in the company’s labs and will be ready at
the end of next year, when trials with ALVAC are scheduled to
begin, according to Rappuoli.  The vaccine is being designed against the strain that
predominates in southern  Africa , the region with the highest
prevalence of infections. It may not work as well against those
that circulate in the U.S. and  Europe , says Sanofi’s Tartaglia.  Though a shot may not be approved until 2022, according to
NIAID’s Adams, an expanding arsenal of weapons including
testing, condoms, anti-AIDS drugs, male circumcision and
education are helping to drive down infections and deaths. Those
tools will continue to be important even with a vaccine, the
U.S. military’s Michael said.  “To kill this dragon is going to take more than one
knight,” says Michael, who as director of the military’s HIV
research program ran the decisive ALVAC test in  Thailand . “A
vaccine isn’t a panacea. But in the absence of one, the epidemic
will soldier on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  