-- Siemens Predicts ‘Rocky Road’ to 2012 Goals as Demand Falls
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-06-26T13:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/siemens-predicts-rocky-road-to-2012-goals-as-demand-falls-3-.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  Chief Financial Officer
Joe Kaeser indicated it will be more difficult to meet financial
targets set for 2012 as demand tapers off at some industrial
automation units and Chinese growth fails to pick up.  “Unfortunately, what we have been seeing in the last eight
weeks was that short-cycle businesses are being considerably
weaker than we have been originally thinking,” Kaeser said
today in an interview in Washington. “It’s going to be quite a
rocky road to meet the targets for 2012.”  Kaeser said  China  will remain weak this year, depressing
sales to one of the biggest customers of Siemens’s high-speed
trains, factory gear and turbines. Chinese growth has slowed,
prompting the central bank to cut borrowing costs for the first
time since 2008 this month and risking an open flank for German
exporters that are the backbone of  Europe ’s largest economy.  Siemens fell as much as 1.94 euros, or 3 percent, to 62.13
euros after Kaeser’s comments, the most in 25 days, and traded
at 62.59 euros as of 2:35 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has lost
15 percent this year, valuing Siemens at 57.2 billion euros.  Siemens cut its full-year profit goal in April, citing
costs to build out windmill parks. Siemens now predicts net
income from continuing operations of 5.2 billion euros ($6.48
billion) to 5.4 billion euros in the year through September,
down from a 6 billion-euro target.  Bottom Shelf  “It makes sense -- leading indicators in Europe are
trending down and there’s no recovery in China,” said Gael de Bray, a Paris-based analyst at  Societe Generale (GLE)  who recommends
buying Siemens shares. “They are implicitly saying they will
aim for the lower end of the target.”  Kaeser said today the Munich-based engineering company,
Europe’s biggest, wants to “caution the market” and doesn’t
plan to change its outlook. His comments follow a revised
outlook this month by  SKF AB (SKFB) , the world’s largest maker of ball
bearings and a barometer for industrial demand, which said
demand in China has failed to improve.  Siemens has pushed back its predictions that economic
growth will resume in China in the latter half of 2012, due in
part to the country’s tightening of its monetary controls.  “We expect a very weak China for the remainder of fiscal
2012 and a resumption of growth in order to make good on their
five-year plan in 2013,” the CFO said.  Down the Drain  Kaeser predicted that a rescue package for  Greece  will “go
away down the drain” because the country lacks competitiveness
or “orderly governance.” Siemens is largely unaffected by the
economic decline in southern Europe, where the company gets only
6 percent of revenue, though Siemens does have contingency plans
to react to a breakup of the single currency, he said.  “As far as Siemens is concerned, one should not over-
estimate a local exposure of a globally active company,” he
said. Siemens could re-allocate its resources “within weeks”
should a break-up of the single currency occur.  The CFO, a Siemens veteran of three decades, said Europe
continues to be a “basket case” and Siemens is watching
developments in China.  Kaeser also said that Siemens still plans an initial public
offering for its Osram lighting subsidiary, after putting off
the plan last year because of adverse market conditions. If
market conditions don’t warrant the offering, Siemens would
consider a “dividend in-kind spinoff” in the first half of
2013, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net , Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  