-- Singer’s Hedge Fund Fights Mexico Elite in Legal Showdown
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-06-26T12:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/singer-s-hedge-fund-fights-mexico-elite-in-u-s-legal-showdown.html
On a scorching April morning in
Monterrey,  Mexico , Enrique Garcia, Vitro SAB’s local plant
manager, crosses under a mural that commemorates the 100th
anniversary of the company’s first glass factory. He points to
brick structures from the original plant.  Then, with visitors in tow, Garcia heads toward a steel and
tin building where machines the size of minivans churn out 3
million bottles a day for Avon Products Inc., Coca-Cola Co. and
Francis Ford Coppola Winery. Vitro is Mexico’s biggest
glassmaker and among the nation’s top employers, with 17,000
workers.  “Almost every family in Monterrey has had someone who has
worked at Vitro,” Garcia shouts above the hammering of presses
and the whoosh of molten glass being fired into bottle-shaped
molds, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its August issue.  The whir of activity gives no indication that Vitro has
been fighting its way through Mexican and U.S. courts -- or that
it’s waging a bare-knuckle brawl with a number of hedge funds,
including  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Management Corp.  Silver-haired investor Singer, whose  New York  hedge fund
had more than $20 billion in assets as of June, swooped in in
2010, more than a year after Vitro’s February 2009 default on
$1.2 billion of bonds.  Sued for Full Payment  Singer, who’s adept at profiting from the debt of
floundering companies such as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
snapped up Vitro’s bonds at a discount. Then he sued to be paid
in full, countering Vitro’s proposed debt restructuring that
offered outside creditors about half of their original
investment.  In lawsuit after lawsuit in Mexico and the U.S., Elliott
and other hedge funds have challenged Vitro’s bankruptcy and
sought to seize the glassmaker’s American assets and revenue
from customers that include Ford Motor Co.  “Paul Singer’s not afraid to do the work on situations
that frankly scare a lot of people off,” says Kenneth Buckfire,
chief executive officer and managing director of Miller Buckfire
& Co., a New York-based investment bank that has restructured
bankrupt companies.  Singer, a Republican power broker who has given $1 million
to Republican presumptive presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s
super PAC, might have prevailed but for Vitro CEO Hugo Lara.  ‘A Legacy’  “We started this process with a conviction that we had a
business, a legacy and jobs that we were ready to defend,” Lara
says. Urged on by Vitro Chairman Adrian Sada, the company
founder’s great-grandson, Vitro has gone toe-to-toe with Singer.  In May, a Mexican appeals court ordered Elliott and other
funds to pay Vitro’s legal expenses on some lawsuits that courts
have dismissed.  Vitro’s reorganization was approved by a court in Mexico
earlier this year over objections by bondholders who have
appealed. Because Vitro has units in the U.S., it asked a Dallas
court to enforce its Mexican restructuring under U.S.  Bankruptcy
Code  Chapter 15 -- which applies to cross-border issues -- in an
effort to stop litigation by debt holders, such as Singer.  On June 13, Judge Harlin “Cooter” Hale denied Vitro’s
request, saying the Mexican plan was defective because it didn’t
sufficiently protect interests of U.S. creditors.  The judge also found that there was evidence of possible
suspect voting in company reorganization proceedings because
Vitro used insiders to swamp outside creditors. Two days later,
the judge reaffirmed that Vitro shouldn’t move assets or divert
business to other entities in a bid to frustrate  bondholders .  ‘We Are Confident’  The wrangling showed no signs of dissipating as Vitro
appealed Hale’s decision.  “We are confident in the legal basis for our arguments,”
says Andrew LeBlanc, a U.S. lawyer for Vitro.  Sada, 67, a graduate of the Wharton School at the
 University of Pennsylvania , says he’s determined to maintain his
family’s grip.  “We have a very high percentage of stockholders,” says
Sada, who looks dapper in his midnight-blue pinstriped suit in
spite of the heat. The Sadas and relatives in the Garza family
trace their business roots to a brewery started in 1890.  The Garzas control Alfa SAB, which owns Alpek SAB, Mexico’s
largest petrochemical company, and Fomento Economico Mexicano
SAB, which owns Oxxo, Latin America’s biggest convenience store
chain. Singer declined to comment for this story.  International Brawl  As the Singer-Vitro battle sprawls across two countries,
it’s pitting one of the world’s most successful hedge fund
managers against one of Mexico’s elite industrial families. At
its heart is a reorganization strategy that Vitro adopted to
turn its subsidiaries into its major creditors, enabling them to
outvote American bondholders like Singer.  The case is testing the extent to which Mexico’s bankruptcy
law applies in the U.S. -- an outcome that may shape future
deals.  If Vitro ultimately prevails, Americans might be less
willing to invest without added guarantees because Mexican
companies might employ Vitro’s tactics, says Robert Rauch, a
partner at Gramercy Advisors LLC, a $2.8 billion hedge fund in
Greenwich,  Connecticut .  Mexican corporate bond prices have lagged behind those in
Brazil and  Argentina , partly on such concerns, Rauch says.  “This is a game changer,” he says.  Rauch says Mexico’s equivalent of a bankruptcy code, known
as the Ley de Concursos Mercantiles, doesn’t address
intercompany claims -- in this case, the internal loans between
units that enabled Vitro to restructure.  ‘All the Flaws’  “Vitro decided to use all the flaws in the law very
aggressively against the creditors,” he says.  In a U.S. Chapter 11 bankruptcy, a company can’t create
intercompany claims to outvote third-party creditors, says
Cameron Kinvig, a lawyer at Hunton & Williams LLP in Dallas.  “Bondholders come first,” he says. “Intercompany claims
are bottom of the ladder.”  Arturo Porzecanski, a professor of international finance at
American University in  Washington , says the Vitro case is the
first time a U.S. judge is being asked to clear a Mexican plan
that wouldn’t be approved under the U.S. system.  “What Vitro has done is to drive a truck through this
loophole,” he says.  Lara says Vitro’s restructuring is consistent with Mexican
law and deserves to be enforced in the U.S. The glassmaker used
local laws to defend itself after defaulting on its debt. And
Vitro’s board hired an outside  law firm  to examine the plan,
says Alejandro Sanchez Mujica, Vitro’s general counsel.  ‘Within the Law’  “We obtained legal opinion from two experts in stock
market laws, corporate law and Concurso Mercantil to be sure we
were within the law,” he says.  U.S. lawmakers say Vitro’s approach may cool crossborder
investment, hurting both countries.  “By upending established international legal norms, this
chill will also harm Mexico’s economy by severely reducing
access to U.S. and international markets,” Patrick Meehan, a
Republican representative from Pennsylvania, and  Jared Polis , a
Democrat from Colorado, wrote to Mexican envoy Arturo Sarukhan
on Oct. 18, 2011.  Allan Brilliant, a lawyer for Vitro’s creditors, is more
direct.  “Vitro created the debt in bad faith to take advantage of
what they see as a loophole in the Mexican bankruptcy law,” he
says.  Isn’t Afraid  For decades, Singer has reigned as a master of waging --and
winning -- protracted legal battles. He isn’t afraid of taking
on corporations or governments to collect on defaulted debt.
During the past 35 years, his fund has returned an average of 14
percent a year, according to his annual letter to investors.  The government of  Peru  in 2000 agreed to pay him $58
million, a 400 percent profit, on the debt of two Peruvian banks
he’d purchased four years earlier.  Singer has battled Argentina for a decade after buying more
than $600 million of that country’s debt, some for as little as
15 cents on the dollar. In 2005, then-President  Nestor Kirchner 
offered to swap the defaulted bonds for new ones worth about 30
cents on the dollar. About three-quarters of bondholders
accepted.  Elliott’s NML Capital unit went to court for full payment
and has since won five judgments totaling $1.6 billion. Six
other lawsuits are pending. On June 25, the U.S. Supreme Court
rejected an appeal by NML to seize $105 million of Argentina’s
central bank deposits held in New York.  Elliott’s lawyers are preparing to argue in July that the
Second  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York should require
Argentina to settle in full.  ‘A Lot of Work’  “It takes a lot of work to play this game, and very few
people have the commitment,” says Anna Gelpern, a professor at
American University’s Washington College of Law.  Singer has also had outright flops. In 2009, Elliott lost
$101.1 million buying phony promissory notes from  Marc Dreier ,
the New York lawyer who pleaded guilty to defrauding hedge funds
out of $400 million.  In fighting the Sada family, Singer is also squaring off
against David Martinez, a 55-year-old Monterrey native who
himself is a hedge fund mogul dealing in distressed debt.
Martinez, founder of New York-based Fintech Advisory Inc., came
onboard in the fall of 2009.  Martinez provided $75 million in financing and helped Vitro
move its most profitable units beyond the reach of creditors.
This isn’t the first time the two hedge fund bosses have crossed
swords. Martinez has helped Argentina, Brazil and Ecuador
restructure their debt.  Legal Maneuvers  In 2005, he filed a friend of the court brief on behalf of
Argentina, opposing one of Singer’s attempts to win payment.  At Fintech’s behest, Vitro devised the plan that shuffled
the holding company’s  assets  so that the glassmaker eventually
ended up owing $1.9 billion to its own subsidiaries. The
maneuver was kept hidden from creditors for 10 months, according
to public documents and court papers. Martinez declined to
comment.  The court challenges have taken their toll on Vitro
executives.  “It’s tough to manage the business under this situation,”
says Lara, jabbing the air with his Montblanc pen. Adrian Sada
says he’s drained but optimistic.  “The past three years have been the toughest,” he says,
sitting in a conference room across the street from conveyor
belts laden with Coke bottles. He says he has never feared he
would lose the company his great-grandfather, Francisco Sada,
started with Isaac Garza as an offshoot of Cuauhtemoc brewery.
The families established the glass factory in 1909 to provide a
steady supply of bottles.  Grew Rich  The Sadas grew rich and powerful as Monterrey, capital of
the northeastern state of Nuevo Leon, emerged as Mexico’s
industrial heartland. Adrian Sada became Vitro chairman in 1991,
says company spokesman Roberto Riva Palacio. He paid almost $1
billion for Tampa, Florida-based Anchor Glass Container Corp.
and Latchford Glass Co. in Huntington Park, California.  The timing was disastrous, coming as soft-drink makers
switched to plastic. Vitro sold Anchor for $392.5 million in
1997, less than half of what it had paid. The company shed a
home appliance unit and cut costs to convince investors to buy
$1.2 billion of bonds in 2007.  A year later, Vitro’s sales plunged amid the global
 economic slowdown . Derivatives that bet on rising natural gas
costs backfired as prices fell, forcing the company to shell out
$85 million for margin calls. In February 2009, Vitro missed a
$44.8 million interest payment on the $1.2 billion of bonds and
couldn’t repay $255 million in derivatives losses.  Helped Restructure  Martinez stepped in. Fintech’s founder sat on Alfa’s board
alongside Adrian Sada and had helped restructure family-
controlled chemical company  Cydsa SAB (CYDSASAA)  in 2004. In December 2009,
Fintech gave Vitro $75 million to buy the land on which company
factories sit and lease it back to Vitro.  Martinez urged a complete reorganization, sparking 43
transactions in which Vitro acquired the stock of subsidiaries
and exchanged debt for capital so that Vitro SAB eventually
wound up owing $1.9 billion to its units. Martinez profited by
gaining an option for a 24 percent Vitro stake in return for the
land.  By the fall of 2010, Vitro had failed to settle with
bondholders. It filed for  bankruptcy protection  in Mexico that
December, which was finally accepted in April 2011. It also made
a U.S. Chapter 15 filing,  to have its reorganization recognized
across the border.  Intercompany Loans  In the process, Vitro used $1.9 billion in intercompany
loans to vote down opposition from third-party creditors. Many
of the original bondholders couldn’t stomach further
machinations and sold out.  “The creditors didn’t want to go through Mexican courts,”
says Brian Cullen, a managing director at  Duff & Phelps Corp. (DUF) 
who advised bondholders. “Instead, Vitro got hedge funds that
welcome litigation when they believe they’ve been wronged.”  Singer’s Elliott and New York-based Aurelius Capital
Management LP piled in. The two, along with other hedge funds,
including New York-based Davidson Kempner Capital Management LLC
and Lord Abbett & Co. in Jersey City,  New Jersey , have filed
more than 300 legal challenges in Mexico alone.  In April 2011, Judge Sandra Lopez in Monterrey appointed
Javier Navarro-Velasco, a partner in the local offices of Baker
& McKenzie LLP, to bring the two sides together. The hedge funds
weren’t interested in negotiating, Navarro-Velasco says. They
wanted $1.1 billion in new bonds, a 10 percent cash payment and
61 percent of Vitro shares.  ‘It Wasn’t Serious’  “It was ridiculous,” he says. “It wasn’t serious. They
didn’t want to negotiate.”  At the end of October 2011, Navarro-Velasco unveiled terms
that offered creditors 45 to 55 cents on the dollar. In February
2012, a court in Monterrey approved Vitro’s reorganization.
Elliott and other creditors filed a more-than-600-page appeal,
which is pending.  “We offered to negotiate with Elliott and Aurelius, show
them our books, to have a rational discussion,” legal chief
Sanchez Mujica says. “They only wanted to continue trading and
continue litigating.”  To emphasize his point, Sanchez Mujica unpacks his iPad to
read a quote from an interview that Singer gave to Bloomberg
Markets in 2008.  “Our primary goal is to find bankruptcy situations where
our ability to control or influence the process is the driver of
value,” Singer said at the time. “That’s our favorite.”  After triumphing over governments and winning payouts from
 Lehman Brothers  and Enron Corp., the master of distressed debt
is on his way to adding the tenacious Mexican glassmaker to his
list of wins.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Neumann at 
 jneumann2@bloomberg.net  