-- Singapore Pastor Arrested for Funds for Wife’s Pop Career
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-06-26T16:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/singapore-arrests-pastor-for-accounts-linked-to-pop-singer-wife.html
Singapore  police arrested Kong Hee,
the founder of a church in the Asian city whose pop singer wife
Ho Yeow Sun has performed with artists like Wyclef Jean, for
allegedly falsifying accounts.  Kong, the senior pastor and president of the City Harvest
Church’s management board, was arrested with four others,
including the vice president and finance manager, the police
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “Financial irregularities of at least S$23 million ($18
million) from the charity’s funds have been discovered,” the
Commissioner of Charities said in a separate  statement  on its
website yesterday. “These funds were used with the purported
intention to finance Ho Yeow Sun’s secular music career to
connect with people,” according to the statement.  Singapore’s white-collar crime agency the Commercial
Affairs Department and the charities’ commissioner in May 2010
started investigating the church, which was attended by 23,236
followers as of December 2010, according to its  website . Kong
will be charged in court today, the police statement said.  “There is no case that is being brought against the church,”
Executive Pastor Aries Zulkarnain said in a  statement  on  City
Harvest ’s website. “The church management board continues to
provide guidance on the running of the church,” adding that
weekend services will continue as usual.  The charities regulator suspended Kong, his wife, who also
goes by the name Sun Ho, and six others from executive roles or
employment at the church, according to the commissioner’s
statement, which lists Ho as an agent and executive member of
City Harvest. The church, registered as a charity since 1993,
had earnings of about S$72 million for the year ended Oct. 31,
2009, according to the regulator of charities.  Avoid Speculation  Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean said in a statement
that the church is free to continue with its services as the
charges are against the five individuals.  “We should let the law take its course and avoid
speculation or making pre-judgments that may unnecessarily stir
up emotions,” Teo said in the  statement .  Kong withdrew from City Harvest’s payroll in November 2005
and started his own business, according to a statement on the
church’s website.  In April 2010, City Harvest proposed in a  notice  to its
members to spend S$310 million for a stake in the downtown
Suntec convention center, as well as rents and renovation costs
related to the use of that space for its services.  The church said in the statement it bought a “substantial
minority stake” in the convention center and the return on the
investment will cover its annual rents. The property is partly
owned by  Suntec REIT. (SUN)   Kidney Charity  The arrests come five years after the National Kidney
Foundation’s former chief executive officer TT Durai was
 sentenced  to three months in jail for knowingly intending to
deceive the charity with an invoice containing a false statement.
The case led to  changes  in the regulation of charities and a new
board of directors was appointed after an audit of the kidney
foundation found several shortcomings.  In 2008, Ren Ci Hospital & Medicare Centre was investigated
by the Health Ministry and the white collar criminal agency on
discrepancies in the charity’s finances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  