-- Singapore Homes Most Affordable as Rents Climb: Mortgages
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-06-26T19:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/singapore-homes-most-affordable-as-rents-climb-mortgages.html
Shivram Anantharaman paid a monthly
rent of S$2,650 ($2,069) until March. Now, he’s paying S$40 less
every month after buying a three-bedroom condominium in
 Singapore ’s East Coast region.  “The clincher in Singapore is that monthly installments
toward repayment of your loan are lower than what you would pay
in rent,” said Anantharaman, a private banker at ICICI Bank
Ltd., who took out a S$1.04 million mortgage for his S$1.3
million property late last year. “It’s one of the few countries
in the world where that is possible,” because of the low
 interest rates , he said.  Homebuyers like Anantharaman are taking advantage of
 mortgage rates  at an all-time low in the Southeast Asian island-
state, even as  prices  are almost at a record high and the
government introduced measures to cool the property market. Home
affordability in Singapore has risen to the highest in a decade
because of historically low interest rates and flexible payment
options available to buyers, according to Jefferies Group Inc.  Average mortgage rates are about 70 basis points above the
Singapore Interbank Offered Rate, or Sibor, according to Maybank
Kim Eng Holdings Ltd. The three-month Sibor is at an all-time
low at just under 0.4 percent, compared with a peak 3.56 percent
in 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Asia’s Lowest  Anantharaman, 29, pays 55 basis points over Sibor on a 40-
year mortgage, effectively giving him a home-loan rate of less
than 1 percent. By contrast, mortgage rates in  India , his home
country, are about 11 percent, according to Rajan Tandon, the
Singapore-based head of Housing Development Finance Corp., the
largest home-loan provider in India.  Mortgage rates in Singapore are the lowest in  Asia ,
followed by  Hong Kong , said  Sanjay Jain , an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Hong Kong. His analysis does not include
 Japan .  Hong Kong’s average mortgage rate is about 2.15 percent,
while  China ’s is 7.43 percent, according to Barclays Plc.
Indonesian rates range from 8 percent to 10 percent while in
 South Korea  they are about 5 percent, according to the bank.
Hong Kong banks raised interest rates last year from the lowest
since 2004 to counter a drain on liquidity as deposits were
moved out of Hong Kong dollars into  yuan . Similar to Singapore,
Hong Kong mortgage rates are set according to the Hong Kong
Interbank Offered Rate or the prime rate.  In  New York , the $1.1 million median price of a condominium
makes renting a better option, with the median monthly rent of
$3,100. The average rate for New York 30-year fixed jumbo
mortgage is 4.24 percent this week, according to Bankrate.com.
Using those numbers, the monthly payment for a mortgage would be
more than $4,500.  Higher Levy  Demand for homes in Singapore has prompted the government
to introduce five rounds of measures since 2009 to rein in
property prices. The latest, in December, imposed additional
taxes on private residential property purchases by foreigners
and existing homeowners to curb excessive investment that may
stoke risks in the banking system and economy.  Foreigners and corporate entities have to pay an extra 10
percent stamp duty under the rules introduced on Dec. 8. The
extra levy is 3 percent for permanent residents purchasing a
second home, as well as for citizens’ third residences.  “The property market continues to be buoyant,” said Linda
Sim, Singapore-based senior vice president of secured lending at
DBS Group Holdings Ltd., Southeast Asia’s largest bank.
“Foreign buying is currently on the lukewarm side, but it’s
replaced by local buyers, with the bulk of those purchases for
own occupation.”  Affordability Measure  A measure of home affordability in Singapore is below 35
percent, based on mortgage payments and median  household income ,
according to the May report by Jefferies. The lower the value,
the higher the affordability, according to the report.  The monthly mortgage repayment for a private condominium in
Singapore in the first quarter was 36.7 percent of a two-income
household’s average earnings per month, the lowest since 2005,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The calculations are
based on the average price of a 100-square-meter (1,076-square-
feet) condominium, the mortgage set at the average Sibor rate
and a 30-year repayment period.  Variable-rate and Sibor-pegged packages are more popular
among home-loan borrowers than fixed-rate packages because they
expect interest rates to remain low, said Phang Lah Hwa, the
head of consumer secured lending at  Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. (OCBC) , Southeast Asia’s second-largest bank. The Singapore-based
bank offers fixed, variable and Sibor-pegged home loans.  Inflation Hedge  The low interest rates are luring buyers to real estate as
“a hedge against inflation,” said Wilson Liew, Singapore-based
analyst at Maybank Kim Eng, a unit of Malayan Banking Bhd.,
Malaysia’s largest lender. Property accounted for 60 percent of
total household wealth in the island-state in 2010, up from 56
percent in 2005, according to government data.  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  does not control the
monetary system via interest rates. Instead, it manages the
Singapore dollar exchange rate against a trade-weighted basket
of currencies of the island’s major trading partners and
competitors.  Most floating-rate mortgages are priced at a margin above
the three-month Sibor or the three-month swap offered rate, said
Liew at Maybank. The swap rate tracks U.S. interest rates and
foreign-exchange movements quite closely, he said. The swap rate
will remain between 0.4 percent and 0.6 percent for the next six
months, Maybank forecasts.  Mortgage Loans  Housing loans  in Singapore account for almost a third of
the lending market, higher than in other countries in the
region, said Wee Siang Ng, a banking analyst at BNP Paribas
Securities Singapore Pte. In  Indonesia , they made up 9 percent
of total outstanding lending as of the end of March, and 20
percent in  Thailand  as of April.  “The importance of housing loans to the banking system is
very high,” said Ng. “The immense competition for them among
banks ensures that they are offered at low spreads above the
Sibor.”  Still, concerns over  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and
China’s economic slowdown are denting demand as the supply of
homes grows, said Maybank’s Liew. Sales this year have mainly
been driven by so-called shoebox developments, raising
expectations the government may step in with more cooling
measures, he said. Shoebox apartments in Singapore are smaller
than 550 square feet.  “The longer the euro-zone crisis and China growth concerns
prevail, the more likely it is that buying confidence may begin
to wane in fear of greater repercussions on the Singapore
economy, and hence job stability,” Liew said. “Demand may dry
up overnight if there is a crisis of confidence.”  Sales Fall  Singapore’s May private home sales fell 32 percent from a
month ago to the lowest this year. Private home sales fell to
1,702 units last month from this year’s peak of 2,496 units in
April, according to data from the  Urban Redevelopment Authority .  “Developers’ sales had been very robust as buyers
continued to flock to the  property market  amid persistently low
interest rates and availability of small units in the suburban
areas,” OCBC’s Phang said. “We saw a 30 percent increase in
home loans take-up in the first four months this year compared
to the same period in 2011.”  Financing Options  Wider financing options are also helping lure buyers.
Permanent residents and citizens can use part of the payments
that have accumulated or get paid every month into Singapore’s
Central Provident Fund, the national  pension , to make down
payments on property purchases and to service the monthly
mortgage installments, according to the fund.  Demand is driven by buyers who want to use the homes to
live in, rather than speculative trading in the property market,
said DBS’s Sim. About 25 percent of the mortgages taken out this
year were for investments or speculation, down from 35 percent a
year ago, she said, citing property usage details given by
customers when a loan application is made.  Prem Bhagat, 36, a human resources manager at  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO) , said he wants to buy a home in Singapore to reduce the
S$3,200 he currently pays every month in rent for his east
Singapore condominium. When he buys, he intends to restrict his
monthly payments to S$2,800 to S$3,000, he said.  “The current interest rates are way too low, the CPF takes
care of a large portion of the monthly payments, and there’s not
too much of a risk of property prices coming down in Singapore
over the longer term,” said Bhagat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  