-- Singapore Woos Millionaires With Murakami, Leibovitz
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-06-26T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/singapore-woos-millionaires-with-murakami-leibovitz.html
 What’s the connection between
racing car driver  Lewis Hamilton , Michelin-starred chef  Joel Robuchon  and  New York  gallery owner Sundaram Tagore? The answer
is Singapore.  The city-state’s relentless quest to attract money and
millionaires, which includes the world’s first nighttime Formula
One race, $10 billion on two casino resorts and a private gold
vault, has now drawn some international galleries to an enclave
that once housed British soldiers.  Gillman Barracks  will commence business in September with
the simultaneous openings of 13 art spaces including  Sundaram
Tagore Gallery ,  Takashi Murakami ’s Kaikai Kiki Gallery and
 ShanghArt  of  Shanghai .  The project is a joint effort by Economic Development
Board, the National Arts Council and the landlord,  JTC Corp. , a
state-linked infrastructure developer. Sundaram Tagore, gallery
founder, says the government’s role is a mixed blessing.  “The plus is you have top officials’ support,” Tagore
says. “you get the right curators and the ability to make
things happen very quickly. On the downside you are not entirely
autonomous in terms of marketing and that’s very important.”  Asian Millionaires  The potential in the region is growing fast. A June report
by  Capgemini SA (CAP)  and RBC Wealth Management said Asia-Pacific
millionaires outnumbered those in  North America  for the first
time. Singapore has 91,200 U.S. dollar millionaires, more than
regional rival Hong Kong, with 83,600. It also has the most
number per capita -- almost one in six-- of any country in the
study.  Gillman Barracks is a far cry from Beijing’s 798 Art
District or New York’s Chelsea, areas that evolved when artists
and galleries seeking cheap rents and lots of space moved in.  The former British compound consists of 14 separate
buildings. Most will be used as gallery space -- there will be
about 20 galleries eventually -- and others will house the
Centre for Contemporary Arts Singapore and international artist
residences opening next year.  The first 13 galleries were selected from among about 30
applicants by a government-appointed committee.  “The deliberate way we have gone about developing is quite
unique,” says Eugene Tan, program director of the Lifestyle
Programme Office of the Singapore  Economic Development Board .
“Others have grown organically, but that has also been their
weakness.”  Government Support  Government support was a big selling point for Cesar
Villalon, whose Manila-based gallery  The Drawing Room  is opening
a 200 square meter space at Gillman. “With the EDB on top of it
we felt the place would be promoted properly,” Villalon says.  Previous efforts by Singapore to create a cluster of
galleries have met with limited success. The refurbished Police
Station on Hill St., which became the Ministry of Information,
Communications and the Arts, only had space for a handful of
commercial galleries on the ground floor.  An attempt to create a cluster of galleries in a warehouse
complex next to the container port suffered from a dearth of
business.  “The site was not ideal,” says Tan.  Eighteen months ago Singapore launched the government-
backed  Art Stage Singapore , the city’s response to the  Hong Kong 
International Art Fair, which is entirely private. That followed
the opening in 2010 of Swiss-backed Singapore Freeport Pte also
built a tax-free maximum-security vault for art, gold and
valuables at Changi International airport.  Experimental Space  Gillman Barracks is a 15-minute drive from the city center,
which ShanghArt owner Lorenz Helbling sees as a plus.  “Hong Kong is too much of a shopping center,” Helbling
says by telephone. “The barracks is away from the city and has
an arts center too. There’s more space for experimentation.”  Gillman’s lower rents are a major factor too. Tagore said
his new 4,400 square-foot space in Gillman Barracks will cost
about the same to rent as his 2400 square-foot gallery in Hong
Kong’s trendy Soho district.  He’s bringing photographers  Annie Leibovitz ,  Edward
Burtynsky  and Sebastiao Salgado to Singapore;  Japan ’s Ota Fine
Arts will exhibit Yayoi Kusuma. ShanghArt will sell works by
Chinese photographer Yang Fudong, and  Indonesia ’s Equator Art
Projects of Jakarta, Agus Suwage, whose works fetch as much as
$300,000.  Content will be monitored. The Ministry of Information,
Communications and the Arts will ensure that galleries are aware
of “certain sensitivities in Singapore such as race and
religion and take care not to tread on them,” says Tan.  Superior Infrastructure  Singapore has also used the casinos by  Las Vegas Sands
Corp. (LVS)  and  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS)  -- with theme park and
restaurants by Robuchon, Wolfgang Puck and other international
chefs -- to help boost tourist numbers last year to a record
13.2 million, more than double the island’s population.  With the  Singapore Art Museum  well established and the new
 National Art Gallery  set to open in 2015, the city boasts a
better arts infrastructure, says David Elliott, a curator and
former director of the  Biennale of Sydney .  However Hong Kong is closing the gap. Its M+ museum,
opening in 2017, on June 13 a $170 million donation of
contemporary Chinese art from Swiss collector Uli Sigg that will
anchor the museum’s permanent collection.  “Now it’s going to put pressure on  Singapore  to decide
exactly what its center of activities and collecting should
be,” Elliott says.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 