-- Sinopec, BP to Expand Bunker Deliveries to Eight Chinese Ports
-- B y   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2012-06-26T05:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/sinopec-bp-to-expand-bunker-deliveries-to-eight-chinese-ports.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  and
 BP Plc (BP/)  will supply shipping fuel to customers in eight more
Chinese ports under s joint-delivery contract signed last year.  BP and Sinopec, as China Petroleum is known, will
distribute shipping, or bunker fuel, to the ports of Ningbo,
Zhoushan,  Shanghai , Lianyungang in the east, Xiamen, Shenzhen,
Yantian in the south and Tianjin in the north, according to an
e-mail to BP clients obtained by Bloomberg News. Zhou Yiqing,
vice-manager of the bunker department at the fuel-oil unit of
Sinopec, confirmed the cities.  The plan is part of an agreement the two oil majors signed
in August to work more closely in the global bunkering business.
The companies have completed several deliveries to ships in
eastern  China ’s Qingdao since April, said Zhou in an interview
on June 22.  Under the agreement, BP opened its global bunkering network
to Sinopec clients, while Sinopec’s China network will be
available to BP customers, Zhou said Dec. 27. The London-based
company will start bunker deliveries in more Chinese ports after
they acknowledge the barges meet the safety and environment
standards, said Zhou.  Under the contract, BP brings their shipping customers and
manages the whole bunkering process, while Sinopec provides the
fuel cargoes, according to Zhou.  Sinopec’s fuel-oil sales group and BP’s Singapore unit have
signed a supply agreement to support each other’s strategy to
develop global bunkering opportunities, the London-based company
said in an e-mail without comment on the expansion plans.  The Chinese company has supplied bunker fuel to vessels in
Panama and Fujairah in the  United Arab Emirates  last year
through BP’s distribution network, according to a Feb. 2
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  