-- NetEase Leads Gain From 3-Week Low on Trade: Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-06-26T20:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/smi-jumps-as-adrs-rise-from-3-week-low-on-trade-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  traded in New York
climbed from a three-week low after the nation’s Commerce
Ministry said trade growth is improving this month, boosting the
outlook for equities the world’s second-largest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in New York gained 1.2 percent to 89
yesterday.  NetEase Inc. (NTES)  advanced the most in three weeks while
 Huaneng Power International Inc. (902)  rose to the highest level since
2009.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (SMI)  jumped
after JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its recommendation on the
shares.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  sank to a two-week low after reporting a
first-quarter loss that was worse than estimated.  Trade growth had “sound momentum” in June, and can gain
10 percent this year if the world economy doesn’t deteriorate,
Shen Danyang, a spokeswoman at the Commerce Ministry, said at a
briefing in Beijing yesterday. Separately, the Conference Board
said the leading index for  China’s economy  rose in May. The
central bank cut  interest rates  on June 7 for the first time
since 2008 following three reductions to the reserve requirement
ratio for banks since November.  “You’re going to see more monetary as well as fiscal
easing,” Joseph Tanious, who helps oversee $394 billion as a
market strategist at JPMorgan Funds in New York, said in a phone
interview. “There’s reason to be cautiously optimistic that
growth will pick up in the back half of this year, which should
translate into higher stock prices.”  ‘Growth-Supportive’ Policy  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 1.1 percent, the most in
a week, to $32.19. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of mainland
stocks was little changed at 2,222.07 with most companies on the
gauge rising. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares
added 0.5 percent to 1,319.99 after hitting a two-week low on
June 25.  NetEase, operator of China’s second-largest online games
website, climbed 5.7 percent to $59.70, the most since June 6.
Huaneng Power, China’s largest electricity producer, advanced
2.1 percent to $29, the highest since Sept. 18, 2009.  Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd. , the largest maker of the lightweight metal
in China also known as Chalco, rallied 2.4 percent to $10.34.  “If policy does turn more growth-supportive, which we
think it is doing, then that will enable  China  to continue to
grow at a reasonable right and at a better rate than what’s
currently discounted in the market,” Timothy Moe, a Hong Kong-
based strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said yesterday.  LDK’s Loss  Semiconductor Manufacturing, a Shanghai-based circuit-chip
maker, added 4 percent to $1.56. JPMorgan yesterday  raised  the
company’s stock rating to neutral from underweight.  LDK Solar tumbled 5.9 percent to $1.90 as the world’s
second-largest maker of wafers said yesterday that its net loss
for the first quarter was $185.2 million, or $1.46 for each ADR,
more than the average estimate of $1.14 by three analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. The loss was due in part to the “relatively
high production cost of polysilicon,” it said in a statement
yesterday.  The company, based in Xinyu of China’s Jiangxi province,
makes polysilicon, the main raw ingredient in solar cells, for
about $41 a kilogram.  “LDK borrowed aggressively to expand into polysilicon even
though European governments, even before the crisis, said they
planned to cut back on subsidies,” Jim Kelleher, an analyst at
Argus Research in  New York , said in a phone interview. “This
company is strategically flawed. If they were operating in a
market economy they’d be out of business.”  LDK forecast second-quarter sales to be between $220
million and $270 million, compared with a  estimate  of $329
million by two analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The company also
cut its 2012 sales estimates to as little as $1.5 billion, from
its top forecast of $2.7 billion provided April 30.  LDK shares have lost 55 percent this year after dropping 59
percent in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  