-- Sons of Partition Seek Pakistan Peace Dividend: Corporate India
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-06-26T18:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/sons-of-partition-tragedy-seek-india-pakistan-peace-dividend.html
H.P. Nanda fled his burned-out home
in newly independent  Pakistan  with $1,500 in his pocket, driving
his Chevrolet past torched villages strewn with dead bodies,
across the days-old frontier into  India . More than 60 years
later, the company he built is planning to return.  Escorts Ltd. (ESC) , which sells farm and construction equipment
in 40 countries and is now run by Nanda’s son, aims to exploit
the biggest drive yet to bolster trade ties between India and
Pakistan. The Nandas are exploring selling their machinery in
their father’s former homeland as Pakistan prepares to lift
punitive trade restrictions on its historic enemy by year-end.  “No country can progress by fighting with its neighbors,”
Rajan Nanda, H.P.’s eldest son, said at the company’s  New Delhi 
headquarters. “We are incredibly keen to export to Pakistan,
but we haven’t been able to because of political tensions.”  Reviving commerce across the 2,065-mile (3,323-kilometer)
border would lift the world’s lowest intra-regional share of
trade, a legacy of the two nations having gone to war three
times in six decades. Potential beneficiaries range from
Pakistani cement makers with excess capacity to Indian steel
producers that could target displacing competitors from  Brazil 
to Australia, according to  Standard Chartered  Bank Plc.  “They are trying to put in place enough of a momentum
that, if something bad were to happen, they can sustain the
process,” Kalpana Kochhar, chief South  Asia  economist for the
 World Bank , who sees commerce nearly tripling in three to four
years, said in a telephone interview from Washington. “The
impact is going to be much larger in the case of Pakistan,”
boosting annual economic growth by as much as 0.5 percentage
point, she said.  Muslim Customers  Some of India’s and Pakistan’s wealthiest businessmen,
including Nanda, 69,  Lakshmi Mittal  and Mian Mohammad Mansha,
see opportunities across a border guarded by hundreds of
thousands of troops. Since peace talks resumed last year, the
two governments have approved commerce in 4,000 previously
banned items and opened new trade routes.  Mansha, who is chairman of Nishat Group, a financial,
textile and cement-making empire, said his company has applied
to the  State Bank of Pakistan  for permission to open branches in
India.  “We can do syndications and joint loans with Indian
banks,” Mansha, who was six months old when his family fled
India after partition, said in a phone interview from Lahore
June 20. “India has a huge Muslim population which might also
find that it’s much easier to get Shariah-complaint services
from us.”  Trade Opening  Pakistan agreed in November to grant India most-favored
nation status, under which its exports wouldn’t be discriminated
against. India, which gave Pakistan the designation in 1996, in
April pledged to allow investment from its neighbor for the
first time. Pakistan plans by the end of this year to remove
1,200 items on a remaining banned list.  The economic rapprochement is developing even as the two
governments are stymied by domestic political strains. Pakistan
on June 22 chose a new prime minister after  Yousuf Raza Gilani 
was ousted by the judiciary for failing to pursue corruption
charges against President Asif Ali Zardari. In India, Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s liberalizing agenda has been crippled
by opposition from within his own coalition, contributing to a
sell-off in the rupee and the slowest growth in nine years.  Violence Threat  Renewed violence could still extinguish the warming in
ties. India scrapped dialogue with Pakistan in 2008 after an
attack on Mumbai by 10 Pakistani militants of the Lashkar-e-
Taiba group left 166 people dead and shattered five years of
peace-building.  Talks last month over relaxing rules on business visas were
dominated by wrangling over probes into the Mumbai attack and a
2007 bombing of a cross-border train in which 68 people, mainly
Pakistanis, died. India charged five Hindu activists with the
crime after initially blaming local Muslim extremists.  Watchtowers and soldiers with automatic rifles positioned
in Indian wheat fields are a reminder of the threat of
hostilities along the border. An Indian soldier was killed June
11 in an exchange of fire with Pakistani troops in Kashmir, said
an Indian defense official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because he isn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly.  Even so, a consensus between Pakistan’s civilian and
military chiefs on the need for trade to help revive a stumbling
economy has encouraged business leaders on the subcontinent,
said Rasul Bakhsh Rais, a professor of politics at the Lahore
University of Management Sciences. India is engaging with its
neighbor after earlier saying ties would only improve once
Pakistan reined in militant groups operating from its territory.  Executive Response  Executives are responding. More than 600 Pakistani
businessmen in April promoted products, including fashion
textiles, jewelry, designer furniture and  leather goods , at a
trade fair in New Delhi. Last month, 45 Indian businessmen
traveled to Lahore to meet fellow entrepreneurs.  As the U.S. plans its exit by 2014 from an 11-year war with
the Taliban in  Afghanistan , it also has an interest in India-
Pakistan rapprochement. U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  used
a speech in New Delhi on June 6 to urge the two countries to
overcome their differences in a bid to improve security in the
region as American troops leave.  For two nations with a fifth of humanity, or 1.4 billion
people, and which share mutually understandable languages, trade
between India and Pakistan is relatively tiny. It was $2.7
billion last year -- less than 1 percent of their combined
commerce with other nations.  World’s Lowest  That left south Asia with the lowest inter-regional trade
in the world, at 1.5 percent of the region’s economic output,
according to Standard Chartered. The ratio is 7 percent in East
Asia and  Latin America , the bank said in a June 7 note.  Elsewhere in the region, the end of Sri Lanka’s civil war
has yielded a peace dividend, with economic growth exceeding 8
percent in 2010 and 2011, compared with an average 5 percent the
previous decade. Indian neighbor Myanmar’s transition from
dictatorship prompted the  International Monetary Fund  to dub it
potentially “the next economic frontier” of Asia.  Indian companies producing cheaper and higher-quality steel
are likely to benefit from higher exports to Pakistan, which now
gets the metal at a higher cost from countries such as Brazil.
In return, Pakistan’s cement makers with a surplus of capacity
should gain by exporting to India where there’s a shortage.  Tragic Start  Cheaper imports from India may also help to reduce
inflation in Pakistan, currently the fastest in Asia. Consumer
prices climbed 12.3 percent in country in May from a year
before.  The history of India and Pakistan was forged in blood. As
Britain emerged economically ravaged from World War II and amid
a growing rift between Hindu and Muslim leaders, it rushed
through separation of its largest colony in a few months in
1947.  In the Punjab region, which was split between the new
countries, roads were choked with bullock carts and migrant
families as they attempted to flee violence that left an
estimated 1 million people dead and another 10 million uprooted.  Now, hundreds of trucks roll across the countries’ border
in Punjab daily. Under a sweltering sun, hundreds of men in
orange turbans and faded blue uniforms used metal hooks last
month to unload white sacks of dried fruit, cement, marble and
other goods emblazoned with green “Made in Pakistan” signs.  ‘Great Opportunity’  Jawed Salim Qureshi, chairman of the Lahore-based  Four
Brothers Group , began importing pesticides from India in the
1990s, through Indian agents based in Dubai. Sales of Indian-
made chemicals and seeds now account for 10 percent of the
company’s $76 million in turnover in Pakistan, Qureshi said in
an interview last month. His company also grows vegetables on
5,000 acres (2,000 hectares) in Punjab.  “We can easily grow this trade manifold if all barriers
and disparities are removed,” said Qureshi, whose father
migrated to Pakistan at the time of partition and settled in
Rawalpindi.  “There’s also a great opportunity for Pakistani farmers,”
he said. “When we can compete in a market of over a billion
people, we will definitely improve our quality and bring down
the cost of production.”  India’s Prime Minister Singh accompanied Mittal, chief
executive officer of  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest
steelmaker, at the opening of a $4 billion refinery in Punjab in
April in a joint venture with  Hindustan Petroleum Corp. Ltd. (HPCL)   The plant, 100 kilometers (62 miles) from the border with
Pakistan, is well positioned to export if talks to lift
restrictions on trade in fuels are successful, S. Roy Choudhury,
its director, said at the ceremony.  Gas Pipeline  Greater trade may also smooth the building of a $7.6
billion gas pipeline from  Turkmenistan  to India, according to
 Standard Chartered. (STAN)  The gas will help meet demand in both
energy-starved India and Pakistan.  Anticipating a pickup in commerce, the Indian government in
April completed a $30 million checkpoint at Wagah, the busiest
border crossing between the two countries. Four new warehouses,
each two soccer fields in length, have been built there, the
number of customs staff doubled and a new four-lane highway now
runs to the nearby city of Amritsar.  “The past is the past, we can’t be prisoners to history
anymore,” said Rahul Bajaj, 73, the billionaire chairman of
Bajaj Autos Ltd., whose daughter escaped unharmed when his
apartment was hit by six bullets fired by the Mumbai gunmen.  Bajaj, who traveled with the Indian business delegation to
Lahore last month, said that if Pakistan removes the company’s
motorbikes from its remaining list of banned items, he will
consider building a production plant across the border.  “Both countries have realized that 60 years of disputes
and differences have reached no conclusions,” said Escort’s
Nanda. “It’s time we lift up the shutters.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  