-- Sony Revival Under Hirai Seen Trailing Tsuga’s Panasonic: Tech
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-06-27T08:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/sony-revival-under-hirai-seen-trailing-tsuga-s-panasonic-tech.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Chief Executive Officer
 Kazuo Hirai  and Panasonic Corp.’s incoming President Kazuhiro Tsuga face the same challenge: reviving their companies after
record losses.  The new leaders of  Japan ’s two largest electronics makers
are both in their 50s, attended U.S. schools, and have been
credited with reforming divisions of their companies. Both also
face problems that won’t be easy to solve. Shares of Sony and
Panasonic fell to their lowest in three decades on May 12 after
the companies forecast earnings that missed projections.  Investors and analysts rate Tsuga’s chance of success as
better than Hirai’s. While Tsuga, 55, is expected to speed up a
shift toward solar panels and energy-saving appliances, Hirai’s
strategy is less clear, said Yuuki Sakurai, chief executive
officer at Fukoku Capital Management Inc.  “I see a higher chance of revival for  Panasonic (6752)  than
Sony,” said Sakurai, who oversees the Tokyo-based firm with
$7.3 billion in assets under management. “Sony still hasn’t
been able to show us the path for revival.”  By contrast, Osaka-based Panasonic, which is expanding in
renewable-energy appliances after  acquiring  solar-panel maker
Sanyo Electric Co., “may do something drastic under the new
president to turn itself around,” Sakurai said.  Shares Slump  Hirai, 51, who faced shareholders at the annual meeting
today, has presided over a 36 percent plunge in Sony’s shares
since becoming CEO on April 1. Panasonic  declined  19 percent in
the same period, while the broader Topix index fell 13 percent.  Nine of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg recommend buying
Panasonic shares, while two of 20 rate Sony a buy. Nineteen
analysts look at both electronics makers.  George Boyd , a spokesman for Sony, and Yuko Hosaka, a
spokeswoman for Panasonic, declined to comment on analysts’
views on their stocks or their executives.  Sony predicts  net income  of 30 billion yen ($377 million)
this fiscal year, compared with a record  457 billion-yen loss  in
the year ended March 31. Its main TV operation is projected to
be unprofitable after losing about 700 billion yen over the past
eight years amid falling prices, a stronger yen and competition
from  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   Sony fell 0.9 percent to 1,092 yen at the close in  Tokyo 
trading, trimming its  market capitalization  to 1.1 trillion yen,
less than a 10th of its March 2000 peak.  PlayStation Unit  Hirai, who made Sony’s PlayStation game  business  profitable
as head of the unit, pledged in April to revive the main
electronics operation by focusing on three areas: game players;
digital imaging products such as Cyber-shot cameras and image
sensors; and mobile devices, including tablet computers and
smartphones.  Sony  bought out  partner Ericsson AB’s stake in their
mobile-phone partnership last year.  “The only way to gain  shareholders ’ trust is to deliver
results, one by one,” Hirai said at Sony’s annual meeting,
where 9,303 shareholders gathered. “We’re determined to follow
through with our strategies by making decisions swiftly and
uniting Sony group together under one management.”  Hirai, a liberal arts major from Tokyo’s International
Christian University who joined Sony’s music venture after
graduating in 1984, promised to revive earnings by streamlining
TV operations, selling a chemical unit and cutting 10,000 jobs.  Replacing Stringer  The executive, who spent part of his childhood in the U.S.
and speaks fluent English, took over April 1 from Welsh-born
 Howard Stringer . Stringer ended his operational role today and
became chairman of Sony’s board after overseeing four straight
years of losses, the company’s worst streak on record.  “I’m still skeptical,” Hideto Fujino, chief investment
officer of Rheos Capital Works Inc., said of Hirai’s revival
plan. “It sounds like mere slogans and lacks specifics. I need
to see action.”  Panasonic’s Tsuga, who became president after winning
approval at the general annual  meeting  in Osaka today, built an
“outstanding” reputation for making reforms while running the
audiovisual unit, said Masahiro Ono, a Tokyo-based analyst at
Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.  The company also conceded making mistakes by investing too
heavily in TV panels, unlike Hirai, who hasn’t criticized Sony’s
past errors.  “Hirai’s never come out and said what’s wrong at Sony,”
Ono said.  Panasonic Loss  Panasonic reported a 772 billion-yen loss last fiscal year
as global TV shipments fell in 2011 for the first time in six
years and the  yen surged  to a post-World War II high against the
dollar, eroding overseas earnings. The company in May forecast
net income of 50 billion yen for this fiscal year.  “To turn around a super-large corporation like Panasonic,
the leader must be brave enough to contradict what was done in
the past,” said  Yoshiharu Izumi , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in Tokyo who rates the stock overweight, the equivalent of
buy. “I think Tsuga is capable of doing that.”  Panasonic declined 1.3 percent to 618 yen and is worth 1.5
trillion yen, compared with 7 trillion yen in April 2006.  “Panasonic will launch full-scale efforts to overcome a
severe business environment to generate profits,” Tsuga told
shareholders today.  The manufacturer, the biggest employer among publicly
traded companies in Japan with  330,767 employees  as of March 31,
will pare its headquarters operation, aiming to make a v-shaped
recovery, Fumio Ohtsubo, Tsuga’s predecessor who became
chairman, said. Ohtsubo eliminated 36,000 jobs last fiscal year.  TV Reforms  Tsuga was promoted to the top job at Panasonic after taking
steps to stem losses from TVs. The executive, who spent most of
his career at Panasonic’s research operations, suspended three
of five TV-panel factories within a year after taking charge of
the unit in April 2011.  The  TV unit  probably will turn profitable in the fourth
quarter this fiscal year after four consecutive years of losses,
the company said in May.  Tsuga, who holds a master’s degree in computer science from
the  University of California  and a bachelor’s degree in
biological engineering from Osaka University, previously worked
in research for DVD products and headed the automotive systems
unit, said Hosaka, the company’s spokeswoman.  He formed a  task force  to draw up a revival plan in April,
Hosaka said.  Tsuga probably will carry out “creative destruction,”
Morgan Stanley’s Ono said in a June 7 report. “We are positive
on the new era” because Tsuga “has a strong executive track
record, having written down facilities and cut fixed costs
quickly” in his former role, Ono wrote.  Ono expects the new president to continue reforms. “He’s a
man of action,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  