-- Soros Tells Spiegel Germany Will Be Hated for Its Role in Crisis
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-06-26T15:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/soros-tells-spiegel-germany-will-be-hated-for-its-role-in-crisis.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
said that  Germany ’s role during the euro-area debt crisis will
result in the country being “hated” and resented by the rest
of  Europe , German magazine  Der Spiegel  reported.  In doing “the minimum” to preserve the euro, Germany will
“perpetuate the situation where the debtor countries in Europe
have to pay tremendous premiums to refinance their debt,” the
magazine cited Soros as saying in an interview published on its
website today. “The result will be a Europe in which Germany is
seen as an imperial power that will not be loved and admired by
the rest of Europe -- but hated and resisted, because it will
perceived as an oppressive power.”  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  faces an increasingly united bloc
of euro-area nations at a June 28-29 European summit as fellow
leaders in France, Italy and Spain, plus investors such as
Soros, press her for more ambitious policies to help bring down
borrowing costs across the 17-nation euro region.  Soros, in a Bloomberg News interview two days ago, urged
Merkel to agree to a fund to buy Italian and Spanish bonds in
return for those governments implementing budget cuts, saying
that Merkel is a “strong leader,” who is “leading Europe in
the wrong direction.”  Merkel “is trapped,” Soros told the magazine. She “has
realized that the euro is not working, but she cannot change the
narrative she has created because that narrative has caught the
imagination of the German public, and the German public has
accepted it.”  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , on the other hand, is
representative of the “the Germany of  Helmut Kohl ,” the
chancellor who presided over reunification of east and west,
according to Soros.  Schaeuble “is the last European standing, and he is a
tragic figure, because he understands what needs to be done, but
he also realizes the obstacles that stand in the way, and he
cannot find a way to overcome these obstacles,” he said,
according to Der Spiegel. “So he is really suffering.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crawford in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  