-- Sotheby’s International to Enter China Property Market
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-26T17:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/sotheby-s-to-enter-china-s-property-market-by-mid-2013-on-wealth.html
(Corrects first paragraph to show that  Sotheby’s
International Realty  is owned by Realogy; clarifies licensing
agreement with Sotheby’s auction house in ninth paragraph.)  Sotheby’s International Realty
Affiliates LLC, a unit of Realogy Corp., plans to start business
in  China ’s luxury property market by the first half of next year
to tap the country’s growing wealth.  The company will focus on the first-tier cities such as
Beijing and Shanghai, Chief Executive Officer Michael Good of
the New Jersey-based firm said. Sotheby’s International Realty
has affiliates in 45 countries and regions, including  Japan ,
 Hong Kong ,  Taiwan , Thailand and  Vietnam  in  Asia .  “We’ve had a lot of global growth, but we’ve been very
careful with China, because China is such an important emerging
economy,” Good said in an interview in  Shanghai  yesterday. “We
think it’s very, very important to be measured in our approach
and make sure that we better understand the real estate players
and the nature of the business in this country.”  Sotheby’s International Realty joins competitor Christie’s
International to access growing wealth in China as buyers search
for overseas properties amid purchasing and financing curbs
imposed by governments in Hong Kong and Beijing to cool off the
real estate market. The number of millionaire households in
China climbed 31 percent to 1.11 million in 2010, ranking the
country third behind the U.S. and Japan, according to a Boston
Consulting Group survey last year.  The move will allow Sotheby’s International Realty to tap
its network of some of the world’s richest property buyers to
invest in China, while connecting the country’s surging riches
with the world’s luxury real estate assets, Good said.  High-End Properties  High-end properties account for approximately 7 percent of
China’s overall residential market, according to Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc., which defines the category as above 40,000  yuan 
($6,285) per square meter. Just 1 percent of the residential
market in Beijing and Shanghai is priced above 64,000 yuan per
square meter, according to London-based real-estate broker
 Savills Plc. (SVS)   Sotheby’s International Realty seeks to work with
brokerages, project sales or even developers, because the upper-
tier resale brokerage operation in China is not as mature as in
some western countries, Good said. He declined to elaborate how
much returns the company expects to generate from China.  Christie’s International, the London-based auction house,
set up a real estate franchise earlier this year in Hong Kong,
its first in Asia, to access buyers in the world’s most
expensive place to own a home.  Property Tax  Realogy, owned by private-equity firm  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO) , has a long-term strategic alliance with
Sotheby’s auction house to license the Sotheby’s International
Realty name.  Chinese authorities’ two-year efforts to crack down on
“speculative capital” included the introduction of a property
tax in Shanghai and Chongqing, higher down-payment requirements
and limiting the number of home purchases by each family in
metropolitan areas such as Shanghai and Beijing.  “There are cycles in all countries; we can’t change
that,” Good said. “In the U.S., we’ve been through a very
significantly challenging time in the real estate industry, and
yet our brand has continued to grow during this tough time.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  