-- Spain Poised for a Cut to Junk as Default Swaps Near Records
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-06-26T12:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/spain-poised-for-downgrade-to-junk-as-default-swaps-near-records.html
Spain  is poised for a downgrade to
junk by Moody’s Investors Service, according to investors who
sent the cost of default insurance for the nation’s biggest
banks and companies close to record highs.  Credit-default swaps on  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , the country’s
biggest bank, jumped 23 percent this quarter to 454 basis
points, compared with an all-time high of 474 in November.  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  rose 26 percent to 477, approaching
May’s record 516, while phone company  Telefonica SA (TEF)  surged 70
percent to a record 540 basis points.  Moody’s downgraded 28 Spanish banks yesterday including a
two-step cut for  Banco Santander  and a three-level reduction for
BBVA, a week after it lowered Spain’s rating to Baa3, on the
cusp of junk. The country remains on review for another cut by
New York-based Moody’s after it sought a 100 billion-euro ($125
billion) international bailout for its banks and on speculation
losses from its real estate industry will worsen.  “There’s more to come if Moody’s downgrades the sovereign
as we expect in the next few weeks,” said  Suki Mann , a credit
analyst at Societe Generale SA in  London . “A one-notch move to
Ba1 will likely see all the country’s banking system in junk
territory, with the possible exception of Santander.”  Worst Performing  Spanish bank bonds are the worst performing among European
financial companies this month, losing 0.75 percent on average,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Corporates
Banking index of 742 securities. Debt tracked by the gauge
returned 0.53 percent overall, with Italian bank bonds earning
0.27 percent and German securities making 0.19 percent.  Santander’s credit-default swaps declined two basis points
to 451 basis points today, and BBVA’s fell three basis points to
478 basis points.  Bond spreads are widening, signaling potentially higher
borrowing cost for the country’s largest lenders. Santander’s 1
billion euros of 4 percent notes due 2017 are quoted at 559
basis points above the safest  government bonds  compared with a
553 basis-point spread yesterday, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader bid prices. BBVA’s 500 million euros of 4.875 percent
bonds due 2016 are quoted at 578 basis points from 567 basis
points yesterday.  Spreads Widen  The yield premium on Spanish bank bonds jumped to 648 basis
points, or 6.48 percentage points, relative to German government
debt, from 433 basis points at the end of the March, the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show. That compares with 291 basis
points on average for debt tracked by the bank bond index.  Moody’s cut at least a dozen Spanish lenders to junk
status, and in all cases the ratings remained under review for
further downgrades, the ratings company said yesterday in a
statement. Junk debt is graded below Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  The latest downgrades reflect the government’s reduced
creditworthiness, which lessens its ability to support the
lenders, as well as Moody’s expectation that losses linked to
commercial property will keep rising, according to yesterday’s
statement.  “We suspect that the sovereign will itself require a
bailout, not just the Spanish banks,” said Olly Burrows, a
London-based credit analyst at Rabobank International.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  