-- Spain Scraps Election Pledge as Worsening Slump Hits Deficit
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-06-27T14:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/spain-may-scrap-tax-rebate-rajoy-introduced-as-election-pledge.html
Spain ’s government is studying tax
increases to rein in the budget deficit, including scrapping a
rebate for homeowners that Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
introduced six months ago to meet a campaign pledge.  The government needs to plug the deficit as data showed the
central administration’s shortfall for the first five months
approaching the full-year target and the Bank of Spain said the
recession deepened in the second quarter. The government in
Madrid may eliminate the tax rebate for mortgage holders and
create environmental levies, Deputy Budget Minister Marta Fernandez Curras said yesterday.  Spain’s six-month old government enacted two election
pledges at its second Cabinet meeting in December, raising
pensions and restoring the rebate for homeowners scrapped by the
previous administration. That policy is now in danger after the
government already broke campaign promises by cutting firing
costs and raising income tax as it battles the deficit amid a
recession.  The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond rose for a
third day, reaching 6.93 percent at 3:49 p.m. in Madrid,
compared with 6.38 percent on June 22. The spread with similar
German maturities widened to 541 basis points from 536 basis
points yesterday.  Economic Contraction  Spain’s economy contracted 0.3 percent in the year’s first
three months and the pace of contraction probably intensified in
the second quarter, the Bank of Spain said today. It will
publish its estimate for gross domestic product next month.  The central-government  budget deficit  widened in the first
five months of the year to 3.4 percent of gross domestic product
from 2.6 percent a year ago, approaching the year-end target of
3.5 percent. A quarter of the shortfall was due to transfers to
cash-strapped regional governments that were brought forward
this year, Curras said. Excluding the impact of those payments,
the deficit narrowed to 2.4 percent from 2.6 percent.  “The deficit has started on a downward path and we expect
that to intensify,” Curras said. “We are determined to meet
the budget target.”  VAT Increase  Curras said she didn’t know when or by how much sales tax
may rise. The government is considering increasing value-added
tax following recommendations from the European Commission and
the  International Monetary Fund , a Budget Ministry official, who
asked not to be named in line with policy, said yesterday.
Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro has repeatedly criticized the
previous government for raising VAT.  Antonio Beteta, Montoro’s deputy for public administration,
didn’t rule out cutting civil servants’ wages today to narrow
the deficit, as recommended by the IMF on June 15. Asked by
reporters in Madrid if pay may be reduced, he said “the
government needs to study and analyze and take the corresponding
decisions, and it will make those that are necessary.” Beteta
later denied in a statement having said that the government was
considering cutting public wages.  Spain missed its deficit goal last year by almost 50
percent mainly because regional governments failed to cut
spending enough and  tax revenue  slumped. In the first quarter of
this year, regions balanced their budgets even as the economy
contracted, helped by transfers from the government, Montoro
said on June 1.  Welfare Spending  Regions spend most of their budgets on health and education
and the 17 states’ health chiefs are due to meet Health Minister
Ana Mato at 5 p.m. today in Madrid to discuss ways of saving
money. The ruling  People’s Party , which controls most of the
regions, also pledged not to cut welfare spending during the
campaign for the Nov. 20 parliamentary election.  The central government shortfall is set to be the largest
component of the overall public-sector deficit, which is
targeted at 5.3 percent of GDP this year. It was 8.9 percent in
2011, the third-largest in the euro area, according to the last
estimate, which the government made after discovering bills left
unpaid by regional administrations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid   at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  