-- Stained by Past, Dow Chemical Wins New Image Embracing Trees
-- B y   E r i c   R o s t o n
-- 2012-06-26T19:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/stained-by-past-dow-chemical-wins-new-image-embracing-trees.html
The Indian Olympic Association excoriated the International Olympic Committee
(IOC) in December for making Dow Chemical Co. a sponsor of this summer’s London
Games. The reason: Dow Chemical owns Union Carbide, which owned the Bhopal
chemical plant that exploded in 1984 and killed an estimated 20,000 people. "The
very presence of this company is against the spirit of the Olympic ideals,"
acting president Vijay Kumar Malhotra  wrote . Dow Chemical Chief Executive Officer Andrew Liveris said opposition to the
sponsorship was "beyond belief," given the 17-year gap between the Bhopal
tragedy and Dow's acquisition of Union Carbide. The IOC gently made a similar
point. If the Olympic ideal is setting elite goals and achieving them against the
top competitors in the world, then the way Dow Chemical has remade itself in
recent years actually does put it in the spirit of “going for the gold.” Forget
about what’s happened in recent years, just look at the last week. Last Wednesday, the Nature Conservancy, an organization hardly known for
providing fig leaves to polluting companies, honored Dow Chemical at its annual
global fundraising gala in New York, for the company’s collaborative research on
how business can better value nature. The Conservancy, now led by former Goldman
Sachs partner Mark Tercek, and Dow Chemical are working together on a  five-year
partnership  to define in economic terms the value that nature -- including
water, marshes and clean air -- provides the company. The findings will be
shared publicly, with key scientific results offered to peer-reviewed journals.
That's a potential milestone for corporate transparency because so much
corporate research never leaves a company’s front door.   Last night, Neil Hawkins, Dow Chemical's vice president for sustainability,
environment, health and safety, picked up a prestigious industry endorsement,
the  C.K. Prahalad Award  for individual leadership in sustainability. "There is a
very real movement afoot to build in the value of nature directly into financial
models," Hawkins said in a phone interview last week. The award is given by the
Corporate Eco Forum, an association of several dozen sustainability-driven
companies that includes Dow Chemical. Hawkins holds a public health doctorate
from Harvard University and has worked at Dow for 24 years across many different
parts of the company, from research and development to government affairs. He
represented Dow in the U.S. Climate Action Partnership, the block of global
companies and NGOs that pushed for U.S. national climate legislation in
2009. Dow Chemical learned in the 1980s, when facing public anger over dioxin
pollution, that getting environmental and social issues right can be critical to
business. The company in 1992 created its Corporate Environmental Advisory
Council (CEAC), made up of outside experts. By 1996, the company set 10-year
environmental, health and safety goals, which forced business units to rethink
or rebuild entire operations. Since the mid-1990s, Dow Chemical has invested
almost $2 billion in energy efficiency measures, which have saved it $9.4
billion through 2010. The first 10-year plan saw a reduction of 1.6 billion
pounds of solid waste and a savings of 183 billion pounds of water. The first
period ended in 2005. Dow, which renamed the CEAC the Sustainability External
Advisory Council in 2008, is now most of the way through its second decade of
sustainability, and issues  quarterly reports  updating progress. "I'm not telling you there's a pot of gold at the end of every inquiry -- not
by any means,"  Hawkins  told an audience in Rio de Janeiro before last week’s UN
sustainable development conference. But the company has found many large- and
small-scale opportunities for innovation or efficiency. Its collaboration with
the  Nature Conservancy  is only the most ambitious inquiry.  
     A 2015 goal for Dow is to introduce at least three
innovations that can help address global problems. Yesterday, Dow announced the
first of these so-called Breakthroughs to World Challenges: Dow AgroSciences’s
Omega-9 Oils. These are cooking oils made from canola and sunflower that have
the lowest amount of saturated fat among oils and 70 percent monounsaturated
fat, according to a company  white paper . Hawkins says use of the oils has
removed more than a billion pounds of transfats and saturated fats from North
American stomachs since their introduction in 2005.   Hawkins’s sustainability operation includes management of Dow Chemical’s
legacy “ issues and challenges ”: Agent Orange, asbestos, the Bhopal disaster and
dioxin. The issues might haunt the company into eternity. Just as likely, a
corporate culture of sustainability can reduce risks that can lead to mistakes
or tragedy. Visit  www.bloomberg.com/sustainability  for the latest from Bloomberg News
about energy, natural resources and global business.    