-- Stocks in Switzerland Are Little Changed; Roche Advances
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-06-26T16:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/stocks-in-switzerland-are-little-changed.html
Swiss stocks  were little changed,
with one stock rising for each declining, as investors awaited a
two-day summit of European Union leaders this week.  Roche Holding AG  led advancing shares after saying it won’t
license a drug from Biotie Therapies Oyj. Adecco gained 3
percent after announcing a share-buyback program.  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  slipped 2.5 percent after Reuters said the lender may
fire some senior employees.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  advanced 0.2 percent to 5,957.72 at
the close of trade in Zurich, having earlier lost as much as 0.4
percent as demand dropped at a Spanish debt sale. The benchmark
measure has  gained 4.3 percent from its 2012 low  on June 4 as
 Greece  formed a coalition government after its second election
in six weeks. The gauge has gained 0.4 percent in  the first six
months  of the year. The Swiss Performance Index added 0.1
percent today.  “The EU summit at the end of this week will be absolutely
key in determining the amount of pressure  Spain  finds itself
under,”  Richard McGuire , senior fixed-income strategist at
Rabobank International, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “If we don’t get much in the way of traction at the
summit, Spanish yields will come under significant pressure and
rapidly raise the prospect that the country will need additional
bailouts.”  Spain’s borrowing costs rose as the country sold 3.08
billion euros ($3.85 billion) of bills today. Demand for the
three-month securities was 2.6 times the amount sold, compared
with 3.95 times in May, according to the Treasury in  Madrid . The
bid-to-cover ratio for the six-month bills was 2.82 compared
with 4.3.  EU Summit  The European Union would obtain the power to revise the
budgets of euro-area countries that break fiscal rules,
according to the draft of a document that will be discussed at a
summit of the 27-member club on June 28 and 29. The Financial
Times reported that the draft also discusses steps toward
banking and political union for countries using the euro.  A gauge of Swiss  consumer demand  declined in May, according
to UBS AG. The consumption indicator, which signals developments
about three months ahead, slipped to 1.05 from 1.37 in April,
the Zurich-based lender said in an e-mailed statement today.  Roche gained 1.6 percent to 162.70 Swiss francs after
Biotie said the Basel, Switzerland-based drug maker decided not
to exercise a one-time option to license its experimental drug
for  Alzheimer’s disease  due to “strategic portfolio reasons.”  Adecco Gains  Adecco (ADEN)  advanced 3 percent to 38.40 francs after saying it
plans to buy back shares of as much as 400 million euros,
canceling the stock around mid-July. The buyback will be funded
in the  debt market , Adecco said.  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  gained 2.5 percent to 315.80 francs after the
company said earnings from 2010 onwards were in line with
previously stated figures after adopting a new segment reporting
system.  Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-largest bank, retreated
2.5 percent to 17.03 Swiss francs after Reuters reported the
lender may cut 60 directors, up to a third of its senior staff,
at its European investment banking unit in July, citing three
people familiar with the matter.  UBS AG, the country’s largest bank, fell 2.1 percent to
10.82 francs. A gauge of banks was the fourth-worst performer of
the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  