-- Supervalu's Stock Has Biggest Two-Day Jump Since April
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y
-- 2012-06-26T01:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/supervalu-s-stock-has-biggest-two-day-jump-since-april.html
Supervalu Inc. (SVU) , the third-largest
U.S. grocery store chain, posted its biggest two-day rise in two
months as investors and analysts view the company as a potential
acquisition target.  Shares in the  Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based company have
jumped 11 percent in the past two days to $5.11, for the biggest
rise since April 11, helping pare its decline to 37 percent this
year.  While Supervalu is mired in its  worst sales slump  as rivals
take a larger share of the market, its valuation stands at 3.97
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. That valuation could lure buyout firms and command
a 50 percent premium for the company,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  analysts said
on June 11.  The grocery chain will turn a full-year net profit for the
first time in three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Asset sales could also help a buyer pay down
Supervalu’s debt and boost returns, according to Highmark
Capital Management Inc., which oversees about $17 billion.  Supervalu is now the most appealing leveraged buyout
candidate among the three largest supermarket chains in America,
ahead of  Kroger Co. (KR)  and  Safeway Inc. (SWY) , according to Meredith Adler, a New York-based analyst for Barclays. A buyer could pay
a 50 percent premium for the company and still earn a return
exceeding 40 percent, according to Adler’s analysis.  On the day of Adler’s report, Supervalu’s shares closed at
$4.06.  Jeff Swanson, a Supervalu spokesman, declined to comment by
telephone today on whether the company is open to a sale or has
been approached by any buyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Livesey in San Francisco at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  