-- Sweden to Keep Nordea, TeliaSonera Until Markets Calmer
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-06-26T13:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/sweden-to-keep-nordea-teliasonera-until-markets-calmer.html
Sweden  is suspending plans to sell
state stakes in  Nordea (NDA)  Bank AB, SBAB Bank AB and phone company
 TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis causes stock
markets to drop, Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman said.  “There are such worries in the financial markets, it’s not
appropriate to do more right now” with the state holdings in
the companies, Norman, a member of the Moderate Party, said
today in an interview in Stockholm.  The four-party government coalition earmarked Nordea,
TeliaSonera and SBAB for divestment after coming to power in
2006. Norman said last October that a block share sale of Nordea
remained an option, while the government is more likely to
dispose of its 13.5 percent stake gradually.  Sweden’s parliament approved a plan in 2010 to sell the
state’s stake in  SAS Group (SAS) , the Nordic region’s biggest airline.
Norman, who spoke today while attending a conference held by
stock-market operator Nasdaq  OMX (OMX)  Group Inc., declined to comment
about Sweden’s plans for the carrier. The country owns 21.4
percent of SAS. Norway and Denmark each hold 14.3 percent.  The OMX benchmark index of Sweden’s 30 biggest traded
companies has declined 0.7 percent this year, following a 16
percent drop in 2011. The FTSE 100 Index in  London  has fallen 2
percent this year. Germany’s benchmark DAX, which is 14 percent
lower than a year ago, has shifted between gains and losses
today as demand fell at an auction of Spanish debt.  2011 Disposal  Sweden’s government sold a 6.3 percent stake in Nordea, the
biggest bank in the  Nordic countries , for 19 billion kronor
($2.69 billion) in February 2011, and said it will continue
reducing the holding through the electoral term ending 2014 to
fund a reduction in state debt.  Other government disposals in the past five years include
Vin & Sprit AB, the maker of Absolut vodka, and property company
Vasakronan AB as well as part of stock-market operator OMX AB
and some of its holding in TeliaSonera.  Sweden’s banks and financial systems remain healthy as
they’re protected from the fiscal woes of southern European
countries, Norman said.  “What we see right now gives no reason for worry,” Norman
said. “We have a very very low financial exposure to the
countries that have problems, and very little trade with them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  