-- Syngenta Embarks on Africa Drive as Dupont Snaps Up Seed Target
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-06-26T14:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/syngenta-embarks-on-africa-drive-as-dupont-snaps-up-seed-target.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s biggest
maker of crop chemicals, said it’s focused on organic growth in
Africa, as the acquisition of a local seed producer in the
region by  DuPont Co. (DD)  intensifies competition in the potential $7
billion market.  DuPont last month successfully appealed a block on the
takeover of Pannar Seed of  South Africa  on antitrust grounds.
The business would have been a real opportunity to get a
foothold in the region’s largest market for seeds, Syngenta
Chief Executive Officer Mike Mack said. The $450 million market
is now split between DuPont’s Pioneer and  Monsanto Co. (MON)   “Because there aren’t a lot of leading companies there, my
going-in assumption is most of it is going to be built
internally,” Mack said in an interview.  Syngenta and competitors are vying for a slice of the
African market, currently valued at $2.5 billion. Demand in the
region for herbicides and other crop-protection products,
currently equal to about 2 percent of the world’s total, may
quadruple in size to $4 billion in 10 years. The continent’s
$1.5 billion seed market -- about 3 percent of the world total -
- may double to $3 billion, Syngenta estimated.  A South African  court  document from December cited an
internal DuPont document as describing the planned acquisition
as a “pre-emptive strategic move against competitors.”  Syngenta’s head of  Africa , Jan Suter, testified in the
court proceedings into DuPont’s acquisition that it would take
about 10 years for a new entrant to establish itself in South
Africa, during which time an entrant would be “burning the same
cash as any of the other players in the market without any
revenues.”  Fight Not Over  “The deal is far from done and dusted,” said Mariam
Mayet, director at the African Centre for Biosafety, which
fought Dupont’s successful appeal alongside South Africa’s
competition commission. Documents seeking to overturn DuPont’s
successful appeal will be filed “soon,” she said.  Pannar decided against a deal with Syngenta after
collaborating with the Swiss company on hybrid seed-testing,
because it saw a lack of compatible technology compared to
Pioneer, according to a  court filing  filed in May.  South Africa, which accounts for the bulk of Syngenta’s
current business in Africa, won’t be a focus for resources given
the “good headstart” that Monsanto and Dupont have, Mack said.
Having missed out on Pannar, it will invest $500 million and
hire 700 to pursue its own expansion path in  Ghana ,  Ethiopia ,
 Tanzania ,  Mozambique , Ivory Coast, Nigeria and Kenya. Africa
generates as much as $500 million in sales for the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  