-- Syria Didn’t Know Downed Fighter Jet Was Turkish, Envoy Says
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-06-26T15:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/syria-didn-t-know-downed-fighter-jet-was-turkish-envoy-says-1-.html
Syrian forces didn’t know they had
shot down a Turkish military jet until after the incident,
according to Riad Haddad, the country’s ambassador to  Russia .  The F-4 Phantom that was downed on June 22 evaded radar as
it flew through Syrian airspace at low altitude, and was
targeted by anti-aircraft guns as it approached the city of
Lattakia, Haddad said in an interview today. The stricken plane
turned around and crashed in Syrian waters, he said.  “We didn’t know what this plane was,” said Haddad. “If a
Syrian plane had flown like that, it would also have been
downed. We only found out it was a Turkish plane once we had
sent rescue ships to the area and they saw three Turkish
helicopters searching for the jet.”  Turkey , which met fellow-members of the  North Atlantic
Treaty Organization  in Brussels today to discuss the incident,
says Syrian forces were aware of the aircraft’s identity before
downing it in international airspace.  Turkey’s ambassador to the  United Nations , Ertugrul Apakan,
in a letter to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon yesterday cited
“radio communication among Syrian authorities” as evidence of
their assertion. He said Syrian forces subsequently also opened
fire on a Turkish rescue plane.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said today that
following the destruction of its aircraft, Turkey is ready to
attack any Syrian military forces that approach its border and
are deemed a threat.  ‘Didn’t Act’  Haddad denied any targeting of a Turkish rescue plane and
said that Syrian forces had registered two or three violations
of the country’s airspace by Turkish military jets in the days
leading up to the June 22 incident. “We don’t want problems
with Turkey, so we didn’t act,” he said.  “We didn’t violate any international law,” said the
Syrian envoy. “We defended our sovereignty.”  Russia, which has blocked UN Security Council action
against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, warned against using
the downing of the Turkish military jet for political purposes,
saying the incident was unintentional.  “An escalation of political propaganda, including at the
international level, is especially dangerous,” as efforts are
under way to resolve the country’s 16-month conflict, the
Foreign Ministry said in a statement on its website today.  Geneva Conference  An international conference aimed at halting the violence
in  Syria  is scheduled to take place in Geneva on June 28.  The shooting down of the plane has provided Turkey an
excuse to approach NATO, said Alexei Pushkov, the head of the
Russian lower house of parliament’s foreign affairs committee.  While NATO won’t launch a military attack on Syria without
UN approval, “if there is an attack on the armed forces of a
NATO member it is quite another situation and NATO then gets a
moral justification for intervention,” Pushkov said yesterday
in an interview in  Jerusalem  while accompanying President
 Vladimir Putin  on a visit to  Israel . “This is a very dangerous
trend.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  