-- U.K. Stocks Little Changed Before EU Summit; Croda Gains
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-06-26T16:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/u-k-stocks-fluctuate-after-three-day-drop.html
U.K. stocks  were little changed,
after the benchmark FTSE 100 Index swung between gain and
losses, as investors speculated on the outcome of this week’s
European Union summit.  Croda International Plc (CRDA)  added 2.7 percent after JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  upgraded  the chemical maker. Shire Plc climbed 3.2
percent, rebounding from yesterday’s 11 percent plunge.  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  fell more than 3 percent, leading a
gauge of British lenders lower.  The FTSE 100 fell 0.1 percent to 5,446.96 at the close in
London, after swinging between gains and losses at least 20
times today. The gauge slipped for a fourth day, its longest
stretch of losses since May 18. The broader FTSE All-Share Index
also slid 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
increased 0.1 percent.  “Markets are getting jittery now ahead of the summit of EU
leaders and are wary they might be disappointed with the
outcome,” Michael Crowley, an economist at Bank of Ireland
Global Markets in Dublin, wrote in a report. “The most the
summit is likely to do is outline possible steps towards
creating the necessary construct to support monetary union. The
euro area is still likely to remain in a crisis state for some
time yet.”  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  has  lost 2.3 percent this year  amid concern
the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis will derail global growth.
Stocks dropped yesterday on speculation the EU summit would not
lead to decisive measures to contain the crisis.  Angela Merkel  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  today told members of the
Free Democratic Party coalition partner in her government that
she expects no shared liability for euro-area debt during her
lifetime, according to an official who was present at the
meeting. The official declined to be identified because the
meeting was private.  The leaders of the 27 EU states will attend pre-summit
meetings as they work to narrow their differences before the
June 28-29 meeting.  Croda International gained 2.7 percent to 2,183 pence after
JPMorgan raised its recommendation for the world’s second-
largest maker of cosmetic ingredients to overweight from
neutral, meaning investors should buy the shares.  Shire (SHP)  added 3.2 percent to 1,798 pence as Berenberg Bank
raised its recommendation for the drugmaker to buy from hold,
saying yesterday’s selloff, the biggest in nine years, presented
a buying opportunity.  Societe Generale SA also upgraded Shire to buy from hold,
while analysts at Panmure Gordon raised their rating to hold
from sell. Shire plunged yesterday after the Food and Drug
Administration approved a generic version of its second-biggest
selling treatment for use in the U.S.  Catlin Gains  Catlin Group Ltd. (CGL)  increased 1.3 percent to 420.3 pence as
Citigroup Inc. raised its recommendation for the Lloyd’s of
London insurer to buy from neutral.  William Hill Plc (WMH)  rose 2.1 percent to 284.2 pence as
JPMorgan raised the betting company to overweight from neutral.  RBS declined 3.8 percent to 227.7 pence for its fourth day
of losses as the lender worked to update its customers’ account
balances following last week’s computer failure. The lender has
extended opening hours at more than 1,200 branches in the U.K.
and Ireland this week.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said today that the
U.K.’s Financial Services Authority should carry out a full
investigation into the IT breakdown.  Barclays, Lloyds  Barclays Plc (BARC)  slid 1 percent to 192.4 pence, retreating for
a fourth day, while  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  decreased 1 percent
to 30.09 pence.  Serco Group Plc (SRP)  dropped 1.9 percent to 529.5 pence after
predicting a small reduction in organic revenue in the first
half. The stock fell even as Serco said it will still meet
estimates for 2012.  Ocado Group Plc (OCDO)  sank 20 percent to 86 pence after the
U.K.’s largest online grocer said the grocery market and the
economy “remain challenging and uncertain.” The company also
warned that the  London  Olympics may disrupt business this summer
as people alter their shopping habits and traffic restrictions
hamper deliveries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  