-- Highway Talks Near Deadline as Lawmakers Weigh Student-Loan Bill
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-06-26T16:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/u-s-highway-talks-97-percent-done-boxer-says-as-deadline-looms.html
U.S. House and Senate negotiators
worked to finish legislation setting highway and transportation
policy into next year as lawmakers weighed combining it with a
measure to prevent an increase in student-loan  interest rates .  House Speaker  John Boehner  and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  were deciding on whether to move forward, Senator  Barbara Boxer  told transportation lobbyists on a conference call
yesterday.  “We are on the 1/2 yard line,” Boxer, a California
Democrat, said in urging the lobbyists to contact congressional
leaders to push for a deal that she said is 97 percent done. She
declined to answer questions about specific agreements, saying
negotiations weren’t complete.  The  Highway Trust Fund , which enables the federal
government to pay for state road, bridge and mass transit
projects, may run out of money if Congress resorts, as it has
nine times already, to a temporary extension of current law,
which runs out June 30.  Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , the Senate’s No. 2 Republican,
said today his staff has told him that negotiators may combine
the transportation measure with a one-year freeze in student-
loan interest rates.  A deal could come as soon as today, Kyl said today in an
interview.  Deadline Looms  Unless Congress acts, student loan interest rates will
double to 6.8 percent on July 1. Current funding for highway
programs expires at the end of the month.  Lawmakers have no plans for a 30-day extension of the
highway measure, according to a House Republican leadership aide
and a Senate Democratic leadership aide who spoke on condition
of anonymity yesterday as the talks are continuing. Lawmakers
would either reach agreement on a measure lasting as long as two
years, or extend the current authorization for six months, after
the November elections, they said.  The two sides have always been close though close isn’t
finished, said a Republican Senate leadership aide who also
spoke on condition of not being named.  The House and Senate have been discussing the transportation
measure since April. The Senate passed a two-year, $109 billion
plan on a bipartisan 74-22 vote March 14. After efforts to pass
its own long-term bill fell apart, the House passed an extension
of current law April 18.  Environmental Reviews  The issues holding up a highway deal include how to speed
up approval of highway projects and whether states will have the
flexibility to spend money dedicated to pedestrian improvements
and bicycle trails on highways and bridges instead.  The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , the largest U.S. business
lobbying group, supports a final measure that would cut down the
average 13 years it takes to complete a road or bridge project
with federal funding.  The Washington-based Chamber prefers the House approach,
which sets deadlines for environmental reviews and runs agency
approvals concurrently rather than consecutively, said Janet Kavinoky, the group’s executive director for transportation and
infrastructure.  Rebuilding the I-35W Bridge over the  Mississippi River  in
 Minneapolis  after its August 2007 collapse in just over a year
showed it was possible to get big projects done in less time,
Kavinoky said.  “If we can get that redone in that amount of time, and it
was a major bridge, we can apply some of the lessons learned to
the program as a whole,” Kavinoky said.  Harmful Impacts  Deron Lovaas, federal transportation policy director for
the  Natural Resources Defense Council , said while negotiations
on streamlining environmental reviews has been “heated and
talked about repeatedly,” it’s unfair to blame all of the
delays on complying with the National Environmental Policy Act,
which has helped to reduce harmful  social, economic and
environmental impact of highway projects  for 42 years. Many of
the projects are drawn out because of their expense and lack of
funding, he said.  The Minneapolis bridge was completed so quickly, he said,
because funding was available, there was a strong public support
and agencies worked together.  “The bridge is evidence that current law can work, as long
as agencies and policymakers get on the same page early on,”
Lovaas said in an interview.  Bike Paths  Congressional negotiators also were trying to resolve
differences over a federal program that guarantees a small
portion of U.S. gasoline-tax revenues are spent on non-highway
projects, like bike paths or developing safe walking routes.  States should be able to decide how much money, if any, to
take away from roads and bridges, said Greg Cohen, president of
the American Highway Users Alliance, a group of motorists and
trucking firms that advocates on transportation policy.  “It shouldn’t be a mandate,” Cohen said. “This is sort
of red meat to conservatives as a sign that the program has lost
its way.”  Transportation for America, a coalition of consumer and
planning groups,  released a study June 21  showing more than
50,000 pedestrians were killed between 2001 and 2010. The
policies backed by the so-called enhancement program save lives,
the group said.  Multiple Users  The House language, emphasizing roads and bridges to the
exclusion of other needs, takes transportation policy back to
the 1950s, said  David Goldberg , the Washington-based group’s
communications director.  “There are multiple users of roadways in developed
areas,” Goldberg said. “It’s not just cars. You have to
consider the needs of everybody.”  The Highway Trust Fund will run out of money sometime in
the next 15 months without a congressional transportation deal,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office . The fund, which
works as a kind of  credit card  to reimburse states for
construction they’re undertaking, is paid for through taxes on
gasoline, diesel, new-truck purchases and truck tires.  Highway-bill negotiators are close to a compromise on the
bill’s coal-ash regulation language, Bloomberg BNA reported.  Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, is orchestrating a
coal-ash compromise with industry approval, said Lisa Evans, an
attorney at environmental advocacy group Earthjustice.  The compromise language would prevent the Environmental
Protection Agency from regulating coal ash, a residue from coal-
fired power plants, as a hazardous waste, Evans said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  