-- Two Dozen Arrested in Global Credit Card Fraud Sting
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/u-s-said-to-make-arrests-in-global-bank-data-theft-operation.html
Two dozen people in 13 countries,
including the U.S., Bosnia and Japan, were arrested in a global
undercover sting operation targeting credit-card hackers said to
have affected hundreds of thousands of customers.  The investigation involved computer breaches at dozens of
companies and educational institutions, U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara said in a statement. Two  New York  suspects caught
through an undercover website set up by the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation were charged yesterday in Manhattan federal court.  The allegations unsealed yesterday “chronicle a
breathtaking spectrum of cyber schemes and scams,” Bharara
said. “Individuals sold credit cards by the thousands and took
the private information of untold numbers of people,” he said.  Bharara’s office said the arrests were part of the largest-
ever international enforcement action targeting online
trafficking in stolen cards and financial information. They are
the result of a two-year undercover operation led by the FBI.  The two New York men, Joshua Hicks and Mir Islam, were
presented in federal court yesterday. Hicks, 19, who is charged
with access-device fraud, was released on a $20,000 bond. Islam,
18, who is charged with access-device fraud and attempted
access-device fraud, was released on a $50,000 bond.  Their lawyers declined to comment on the charges after the
hearing.  ‘Carder Profit’  The FBI established the website, called “Carder Profit,”
in June 2010 “as an online meeting place where the FBI could
locate cybercriminals, investigate and identify them and disrupt
their activities,” prosecutors said in a criminal complaint
unsealed yesterday.  The undercover operation prevented potential losses of more
than $205 million, according to the statement from Bharara’s
office. The FBI notified credit card companies of more than
411,000 compromised credit and debit cards. The agency informed
47 businesses, government entities and schools that their
 computer networks  had been breached, according to the statement.  Hicks, who used the online name OxideDox, passed 15 stolen
credit card numbers to an undercover agent in exchange for a
camera and $250, according to the complaint. Assistant U.S.
Attorney  Thomas Brown  said in the hearing that Hicks admitted to
additional computer crimes, including so-called SQL injection
attacks, a technique to access customers’ financial data through
a firm’s website, and infecting computers with malicious
software.  Card Data  The government claims Islam, who used names including
“JoshTheGod” and “Ijew,” trafficked in stolen credit card
data and possessed information for more than 50,000 cards. He
claimed to be a member of the hacking group UGNazi and a founder
of Carders.Org, a forum for people who deal in stolen credit
cards, according to the government.  In addition to Hicks and Islam, U.S. authorities arrested
nine people, in  California ,  Georgia ,  New Mexico ,  Florida ,
 Arizona ,  Massachusetts  and  Wisconsin , Bharara’s office said in
the statement. Six people were arrested in the U.K., two in
Bosnia and one each in  Bulgaria , Norway, Germany, Italy and
 Japan . Four defendants remain at large, according to
prosecutors.  Authorities in the U.S. and other countries yesterday
executed more than 30 search warrants and interviewed more than
30 subjects, according to the statement.  Undercover Website  The website set up by the FBI allowed users to discuss
topics relating to “carding,” or stealing credit and debit
card data and other financial information to get money, services
and merchandise, according to the complaint against Hicks.  The FBI monitored discussions and recorded the Internet
addresses of the users’ computers, according to the complaint.
The site was taken offline in May, prosecutors said in the
statement.  According to the complaint, Hicks on Feb. 22 agreed to
trade stolen data from the credit cards for a digital single-
lens reflex camera. A FBI agent sent the money electronically to
a website user who acted as an escrow agent, according to the
complaint.  The FBI agent then agreed to meet OxideDox in lower
 Manhattan  on Feb. 28 and provide the camera, according to the
complaint.  Later, the agent chatted online with OxideDox, asking him
if he liked the camera, according to the complaint.  “Hey, a free camera is a free camera,” OxideDox replied,
according to the complaint.  The case is U.S. v. Hicks, 12-mg-1639, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  