-- U.S. Should Avoid Fiscal Cliff, Overhaul Taxes, OECD Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-06-26T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/u-s-should-avoid-fiscal-cliff-overhaul-taxes-oecd-says.html
The  U.S. Congress  should seek
longer-term fiscal sustainability while trimming  government
spending  gradually and providing more equal tax treatment,
according to the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.   The Paris-based OECD released its 2012 economic survey of
the U.S. today, leaving intact its projections of 2.4 percent
growth for this year and 2.6 percent for 2013 from last month.  “Income inequality and relative poverty are among the
highest in the OECD,” the report said of the U.S. “At the same
time, there is no consensus in the economic literature that
reducing inequality would be harmful to economic growth.”  A so-called fiscal cliff is coming at the end of 2012 when
a number of major tax-and-spending changes will take effect
unless Congress acts. The George W. Bush-era income tax cuts
will expire as will a temporary cut in the Social Security
payroll tax. About $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts over
a decade will be poised to start, expanded jobless benefits will
expire and the government will approach the legal limit on
federal borrowing.  The OECD said that “legislative decisions are required”
to avoid the budget shock. Inaction on  Capitol Hill  could push
the  U.S. economy  into recession next year, the  Congressional
Budget Office  said last month.  ‘Gradual Pace’  The federal  budget deficit  should be reduced “at a gradual
pace so as to put the federal debt-GDP ratio on a downward path
and restore fiscal sustainability,” the OECD said.  Federal Reserve officials said last week they see U.S.
growth ranging from 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent this year, down
from an April forecast of 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent, according
to central-tendency estimates. Fed officials predict
unemployment of 8 percent to 8.2 percent at year-end, compared
with an April projection of 7.8 percent to 8 percent. They
expect joblessness of 7.5 percent to 8 percent in 2013, up from
7.3 percent to 7.7 percent.  The Obama administration’s proposals for job training and
re-employment, contained in the 2013 budget, “should be
implemented without delay,” according to the OECD.  The organization also recommended improvements to
education, greater accessibility to home mortgage modifications
and high levels of equity capital for banks.  “Equalizing the effective tax rates on debt-financed
corporate investment and on housing at the higher rate on
equity-financed corporate investment while simultaneously
lowering the corporate  tax rate  would reduce  income inequality 
and improve the efficiency of investment,” according to the
OECD.  Tax Rate  The report, citing Congressional Budget Office figures from
2005, said for example the effective federal tax rate on real
income from equity-financed corporate investment was 36.1
percent, while the rate for debt-financed investment was minus
6.4 percent.  The U.S. has the fourth-highest income inequality among the
34 OECD nations behind Chile, Mexico and Turkey, according to
the organization’s data. “Incomes of the top 1 percent of
earners have skyrocketed,” the OECD said.  The OECD helps governments “foster prosperity and fight
poverty through economic growth and financial stability,”
according to the organization’s website, while taking into
account “the environmental implications of economic and social
development.” OECD member nations include Australia, Chile,
France, Germany, Israel, Mexico, Switzerland,  Turkey , the U.K.
and the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in Washington at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  