-- U.S.-EU Trade Pact Would Set Global Example, Siemens CFO Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-06-26T22:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/u-s-eu-trade-pact-would-set-global-example-siemens-cfo-says.html
A proposed agreement to liberalize
trade between the U.S. and the European Union would set a good
example for other nations to follow in establishing similar
accords,  Siemens AG (SIE)  Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser said.  The Munich-based company is “reasonably optimistic that
the EU and the  United States  get something done and be the
lighthouse of global trade cooperation,” Kaeser said yesterday
in an interview in  Washington . “If not those two, who else
should do it?”  The U.S. and the 27-nation EU are seeking a trade pact as
nations including Greece and  Spain  grapple with a sovereign-debt
crisis, sapping economic growth worldwide. Officials from both
sides on June 19 released an interim report on the potential
scope of a deal, including reducing tariffs and trade barriers
in services and investment.  “If we send the wrong signals as United States and Europe
to emerging countries like  Brazil , which has always been
somewhat shaky on global-trade agreements, that would be a
devastating message,” Kaeser said.  The U.S. and EU already have the world’s largest bilateral
economic relationship, and account for about a third of the
world’s total trade flows,  according  to the European Commission.
U.S. trade in goods with the EU totaled about $636.9 billion
last year,  according  to the U.S. Census Bureau. While the
transatlantic partners have worked for decades to establish
closer ties, they have often been stymied by issues including
agricultural policy and establishing a common set of standards
for products such as machinery and appliances.  2014 Completion  The partners took the “next step” toward beginning trade
negotiations with the release of their interim report, President
 Barack Obama  said at a June 19 news conference. A final report
is due by the end of the year, and EU Trade Commissioner Karel  De Gucht  has proposed starting negotiations soon thereafter,
with the goal of wrapping up talks by mid-2014.  The U.S. and EU are considering a “comprehensive
agreement” that may encompass a reciprocal market opening in
goods, services and investment, according to the interim report
produced by officials led by De Gucht and U.S. Trade
Representative  Ron Kirk .  Such an agreement, “if achievable, is the option that has
the greatest potential for supporting jobs and promoting growth
and competitiveness across the Atlantic,” it said.  Potential Goals  Potential goals include eliminating all duties on bilateral
trade, providing more transparency in services, establishing a
forum for resolving health and sanitation issues, and improving
businesses access to government purchases.  The U.S.-EU report concluded “it would not be feasible in
negotiations to reconcile across-the-board differences” in the
obligations regarding intellectual property rights that they
usually include in similar trade agreements.  “There is increased momentum behind the idea of launching
ambitious transatlantic trade talks,” Peter Rashish, vice
president for  Europe  and Eurasia at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
in Washington, said in an e-mail. “There may need to be work on
certain agricultural and regulatory issues before the talks can
get underway, but I’m confident that the two sides will bridge
those divides.”  Election-year politics probably will prevent the U.S. from
taking significant steps on a trade agreement with the EU in the
coming months, Gary Clyde Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington,
said in a phone interview.  Election Deadline  “I think the administration is very skittish -- and any
administration would be -- of opening up a new vista” that
political opponents might criticize, he said. Mid-term elections
in 2014 effectively set a deadline for completing an accord
during the next four years, according to Hufbauer.  The U.S. and EU have been at odds over establishing uniform
standards, in part because decisions are set by  member states  in
Europe and independent agencies in America, he said. The EU is
also interested in liberalizing procurement at all levels of
government, and which may create tension at the U.S. state
level, Hufbauer said.  The transatlantic partners are seeking to establish a trade
pact in part to offset  China ’s role in influencing global trade
rules, according to Hufbauer.  “If the U.S. and the EU want to continue to set the rule
book for the next 30 to 40 years, they really need to get
together on what the rule book is,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  