-- U.S. Stocks Advance as Home Data Tempers Economic Concern
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-26T20:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/u-s-stock-futures-gain-before-consumer-confidence-data.html
U.S. stocks advanced, rebounding
from yesterday’s selloff, as optimism about the housing market
tempered concern about a worsening of Europe’s debt crisis.  News Corp. rose 8.3 percent as  Rupert Murdoch ’s company
said it’s considering splitting into two publicly held
corporations.  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , the largest U.S. for-profit
college chain, surged 10 percent after beating earnings and
revenue estimates and raising its forecast. A measure of
 homebuilders  in  Standard & Poor’s  indexes jumped 3.8 percent as
housing prices dropped at the slowest pace in more than a year.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  rose 0.5 percent to 1,319.99 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. It tumbled 1.6 percent yesterday. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  increased 32.01 points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,534.67.
Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was about 6
billion shares, or 12 percent below the three-month average.  “There are lots of variables at play,” said  Keith Wirtz ,
who oversees $15 billion as chief investment officer for Fifth
Third Asset Management in Cincinnati. He spoke in a phone
interview. “People are looking at signs of stabilization in the
housing market, there’s the European summit this week, it’s
almost quarter end. It’s going to be a volatile week.”  Today’s rally trimmed this  quarter ’s decline in the  S&P 500 
to 6.3 percent. The benchmark measure is on pace for the first
quarterly slump since September amid concern about a global
economic slowdown. Energy, financial and technology shares have
had the biggest losses so far in the second quarter, tumbling at
least 9.5 percent.  Yields Surge  Equities rose today as the S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of
 property values  in 20 cities dropped 1.9 percent in April from
the same month in 2011, the smallest decline since November
2010, after decreasing 2.6 percent in the year ended March. The
data overshadowed a surge in yields at auctions in Italy and
Spain ahead of a European Union summit on June 28.  “We’re caught in this limbo,” said Brian Jacobsen, who
helps oversee $204 billion as chief portfolio strategist at
Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin.
“People are waiting to see what comes out of the European Union
summit this week.”  Consumer discretionary, energy and financial shares had the
biggest gains among the 10 main S&P 500 industries. Homebuilders
in S&P indexes advanced with  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  and  Lennar Corp. (LEN) 
adding more than 3 percent.  News Corp. (NWSA)  rallied 8.3 percent to $21.76, the highest level
since 2007. Murdoch, the chairman and CEO, is overseeing
internal discussions on whether to separate the company’s
publishing business from its entertainment holdings, said two
people with knowledge of the matter. In a statement today, News
Corp. didn’t say how the company would be divided.  Apollo Gains  Apollo advanced 10 percent to $35.81 for the largest gain
in the Bloomberg U.S. For-Profit Education Index. The company,
confronting student reluctance to take on debt amid high
unemployment and government investigations of for-profit
colleges’ marketing practices, reined in costs during the
quarter, said Peter Appert, an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  had its recommendation raised and
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  was lowered by analysts at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., who said they have a better view of the near-term earnings
outlook for JPMorgan. Shares of JPMorgan increased 1.1 percent
to $35.71, while Morgan Stanley added 0.2 percent to $13.51.  Goldman Sachs upgraded JPMorgan to a buy on its “Americas
conviction list” of highly recommended stocks, while Morgan
Stanley was removed from that list and lowered to neutral, the
analysts wrote in a research note today.  Return Visibility  “Both JPM and MS shares have  underperformed  the broader
banking group this year, driven by real but different
idiosyncratic concerns,” Goldman Sachs analysts led by  Richard Ramsden  wrote, referring to the two company’s stock symbols. The
balance of risk and potential return is better for JPMorgan
shareholders, according to the note, because of “more near-term
earnings and return visibility for JPM.”  Facebook Inc. (FB) , facing criticism for a lack of diversity on
its board, appointed Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  as
its first female director. The world’s largest social-networking
service, a majority of whose users are women, will benefit from
the addition of a female voice to its board, said Laura Martin,
an analyst at Needham & Co.  “This is a great move,” said Martin, who doesn’t own
shares and rates the stock a buy. “Academic research shows that
the greater the diversity on a board, the higher the returns to
shareholders are.”  The shares rose 3.2 percent to $33.10.  Dow Chemical  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  slid 2.9 percent to $31.32. The largest
U.S. chemical company by revenue was downgraded to neutral from
overweight at JPMorgan by equity analyst Jeffrey Zekauskas. The
18-month share-price estimate is $36.  The S&P 500, down 7.4 percent through yesterday since
reaching a four-year high in April on weakening economic data,
is about to lose another pillar of support: the election year
 calendar .  The gauge has climbed an average of 0.1 percent in third
quarters before a presidential vote in election cycles since
1945, the  worst return  of the year and down from an average
increase of 2.2 percent between April and June, according to
S&P. U.S. shares have returned 5.7 percent in election years
since World War II, the second-worst performance during four-
year executive branch terms.  Stocks have retreated following a rally in the first
quarter, dragged down after reports on U.S. manufacturing and
employment trailed economist forecasts and concern grew that
Europe’s debt crisis will spur a global recession.  Financial Crisis  The S&P 500 dropped 8.9 percent in the July-September
quarter of 2008 as the financial crisis intensified. It has
rebounded 1.9 percent on average in quarters after elections,
S&P’s data show.  “This lack of direction is understandable, in our opinion,
as investors are bombarded by the hype from the conventions,
speeches and political advertisements, as they await the outcome
of the upcoming election,”  Sam Stovall , S&P’s chief equity
strategist, wrote in a note yesterday.  While the index posts an average gain during the third
quarter of election years, it’s just as likely to rise as fall,
according to S&P. Its lowest point during years of presidential
votes have come in the first half 71 percent of the time, the
data shows. The most consistent gains come in the final quarter,
when the gauge has climbed 81 percent of the time.  Only twice out of the 17 election years since 1944 did the
index bottom in the fourth quarter, in 2000 and 2008, when the
market suffered the bursting of Internet and housing bubbles,
respectively. President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, is seeking a
second term against Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  on Nov. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  