-- U.S. May Imports of Steel Products Report (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-06-26T14:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/u-s-may-imports-of-steel-products-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
steel report from the Commerce Department:  The U.S. Census Bureau announced today that preliminary May
steel imports were $3.2 billion (2.7 million metric tons
compared to the preliminary April totals of $3.0 billion (2.7
million metric tons).  The April change in steel imports based on metric tonnage
reflected an increase primarily in plates in coils and hot
rolled sheets.   An increase occurred primarily with  Russia ; a
decrease occurred primarily with  Japan .  The year to date final statistics through April 2012 showed
steel imports of 10.7 million metric tons compared with 8.1
million metric tons through April 2011. The largest commodity
increase occurred primarily in blooms, billets and slabs. The
largest country increases occurred primarily with Brazil and
Russia; decreases occurred primarily with Mexico and  Australia .  Notes:  The data in this report are preliminary and subject to
revisions.  Analysis of recent months for steel product imports indicates
the value of preliminary data should equal about 96 percent of
the final value reported in the regular monthly trade statistics
report.  Preliminary data reported for individual steel
categories and at the individual country of origin level have
been less consistently predictive of the final data reported in
the regular monthly trade statistics. For further details, visit
the Foreign Trade Division web site at www.census.gov/trade. On
the website, you can access product by country and country by
product tables.  The next release is July 24, 2012.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department      http://www.bea.gov   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  