-- Singh Pledges India Sentiment Push After Taking Finance Role
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-06-27T17:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/mukherjee-quits-as-india-finance-minister-to-run-for-presidency.html
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said
reviving investor confidence in India is one of his top
priorities after taking charge of the  finance ministry .  “At the current juncture, we are passing through
challenging times economically,” Singh said in a statement in
New Delhi today. “We need to work to get the economy going again
and restart the India growth story. In the short run, we need to
revive investor sentiment, both domestic and international.”  Singh, who assumed the finance role yesterday after  Pranab Mukherjee  resigned, faces a  budget deficit  requiring record
borrowing, a paralysis in policy making that has hurt efforts to
spur investment and a faltering global recovery. The rupee has
slumped to an unprecedented low against the dollar, stoking
elevated  inflation  by making imports costlier.  The currency, which touched a record low of 57.3275 per
dollar on June 22, declined 0.2 percent to 57.135 today. It is
down 21 percent in the past year, the worst slide among major
Asian currencies. Aside from  India ’s deteriorating outlook, the
rupee has also been hurt by  Europe ’s debt crisis, which has
sapped demand for emerging-market assets.  In other comments on his Twitter Inc. account today, Singh
said India needs to “reverse the climate of pessimism,” adding
that the immediate emphasis of the government is to manage the
balance of payments and boost institutional flows into India.
The comments and the statement followed a meeting between the
prime minister and finance ministry officials.  ‘Stalled Reforms’  Mukherjee, the ruling Congress party’s nominee for the
presidential poll in July, quit to take part in the election.
Singh will head the finance ministry until Mukherjee’s successor
is appointed, Pankaj Pachauri, communications adviser to the
prime minister’s office, said in  New Delhi  yesterday.  Singh was finance minister in the 1990s, sparking an
economic turnaround that now faces one of its sternest tests.  The prime minister’s decision to refrain from appointing a
successor immediately implies he “wants to keep the portfolio
with himself for some time to push stalled reforms and lift the
slowing economy in order to boost confidence” said Satish Misra,
an analyst at the New Delhi-based Observer Research Foundation.  Singh, 79, headed the finance ministry for five years from
1991, when India was on the brink of defaulting on some of its
overseas debt. In his first two months in the job, he devalued
the rupee, tackled government monopolies, cut import tariffs and
tax rates, and let foreign companies take majority stakes in
sectors including automobiles and pharmaceuticals.  Political Gridlock  Liberalization spurred faster growth, including an 8.4
percent expansion in the 12 months ended March 2011, before a
gridlock in policy making contributed to a  slowdown  to 5.3
percent last quarter from a year earlier, a nine-year low.  The government’s recent setbacks include the suspension in
December of plans to allow foreign companies such as  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  to open supermarkets after an ally of the ruling
coalition objected. India has also foregone investment in the
pension and insurance industries in recent months.  Swedish furniture retailer IKEA last week eased some of the
gloom, saying it wants to open stores in India and may invest as
much as 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion). Coca-Cola Co. said
yesterday the company and its local partners plan to spend $5
billion in the country by 2020.  Mukherjee’s resignation may lead to a cabinet reshuffle as
Singh tries to revitalize his development agenda to cut poverty.  Possible Replacements  Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, Commerce Minister
 Anand Sharma , Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , Chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic
Advisory Council Chakravarthy Rangarajan and Rural Development
Minister Jairam Ramesh are all probable candidates to replace
Mukherjee, Business Standard newspaper reported June 15.  The government projects record borrowing of 5.69 trillion
rupees ($100 billion) in the year through March 2013. It aims to
narrow the budget gap to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product
this fiscal year, from 5.76 percent in 2011-2012.  Inflation accelerated to 7.55 percent in May, and the
central bank signaled this month that price pressures are
crimping scope to cut  interest rates .  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  have said they may
strip  Asia ’s third-largest economy of its investment-grade
rating. The nation has struggled to pare spending on a subsidy
program ranging from diesel to fertilizers.  “It’s a very messy combination of things that is going on
in the economy,” said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , Singapore-based
director of Asian economics at Credit Suisse Group AG. India
needs to improve public finances by raising fuel prices and push
forward with other reforms, such as introducing a goods and
services tax, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  