-- UVA Reunites as Board Reinstates President Sullivan
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/university-of-virginia-reinstates-president-after-outcry-1-.html
Unity returned to the  University of
Virginia  after student, faculty and alumni protests led its
embattled board to reinstate ousted President  Teresa Sullivan  by
unanimous vote.  The Board of Visitors also expressed confidence yesterday
in their leader, Rector Helen Dragas, who had led the drive to
force Sullivan’s resignation on June 10.  “I pledge to set aside any differences we might have and
to work hand-in-hand with Rector Dragas and all members of the
Board of Visitors as we face the challenges that have been
articulated -- and find solutions that will further distinguish
the university,” Sullivan, 62, said in a statement after the
vote.  The university plunged into turmoil after Sullivan was
pushed out less than two years into her presidency. The decision
to oust her occurred without the required two-thirds majority
vote of the  board . Since then, the faculty senate passed a vote
of no confidence in the board, 10 university deans called for
Sullivan’s reinstatement and thousands of students demonstrated
in her support.  Dragas, 50, wanted to replace Sullivan with a leader who
would push for steeper cost cutting and move toward online
learning. Dragas and Vice Rector Mark Kington, who resigned last
week, exchanged e-mails related to Sullivan’s ouster in the days
and weeks before it was announced. Dragas made  statements 
detailing the board’s rationale after Sullivan’s resignation.  Rector Apologizes  The board “never wished nor intended to ignite such a
reaction from the community of trust and honor that we love so
dearly,” Dragas said before the vote in the Charlottesville
campus’s historic  Rotunda , designed by founder  Thomas Jefferson .
“I sincerely apologize for the way that this was presented and
you deserve better.”  Heywood Fralin, chief executive officer of Medical
Facilities of America Inc. and the one board member who voted
against Sullivan’s dismissal, introduced the motion to reinstate
her at yesterday’s meeting. Fralin, who served as rector from
2007 to 2009, said that the entire board, including Dragas,
acted with integrity and according to their own aspirations for
the university’s future.  “We don’t have to agree, but we should respect the
integrity of each member,” he said at the meeting, which was
webcast live from the campus.  All of the board’s members knew that Dragas and Kington
planned to meet with Sullivan and ask for her resignation before
it occurred, Fralin said. He apologized for failing to call for
a special board meeting at the time to discuss the issue
further.  Governor’s Demand  The storm over Sullivan’s dismissal spread to the Virginia
capital. Governor  Bob McDonnell , who appoints the board’s
members, ordered them last week to make a final decision on
Sullivan by yesterday or resign themselves.  Such a revolt hasn’t been seen on a college campus since
the 2006 ouster of  Lawrence Summers  as president of  Harvard
University . Summers stepped down as faculty were preparing a
second no-confidence vote in objection to his autocratic work
style and comments he made suggesting that women lacked an
aptitude for science. He later became director of the  National
Economic Council  under President  Barack Obama , and still teaches
at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government.  The atmosphere on the Virginia campus, locally referred to
as Grounds, has already changed, said  John Miller , chairman of
the Department of Classics, who watched the reinstatement
meeting online. Several hundred people gathered on the lawn
outside the Rotunda as the board meeting took place, he said.  Voices Heard  “The board heard the voices of the faculty, alumni,
students, and just realized that this was the best thing to
do,” said  George Cohen , chairman of the university’s faculty
senate. The crowd cheered when the board’s vote was announced,
he said.  Sullivan, Virginia’s first female president, earned her
undergraduate degree from  Michigan State University  and a
doctoral degree in sociology from the  University of Chicago . She
spent 27 years at the  University of Texas  before becoming
provost at the  University of Michigan , where she was popular
with deans and the faculty and noted for collaboration, said
Paul Courant, who preceded her as provost.  Dragas is president and CEO of Dragas Cos., a real estate
development company. She grew up in  Virginia , attended both
undergraduate and graduate school at UVA, and is the daughter of
George Dragas Jr., a former rector of the Board of Visitors.  Dragas said she and Sullivan met before the board convened
and agreed that it was time for the university to reunite.  Sullivan’s reappointment will help the university face
important issues in higher education, and the unanimous vote
helps bring the matter to a close, said Virginia Delegate David Toscano, a Democrat from Charlottesville who opposed the way the
board removed her.  “It is a very sunny day for UVA, and for higher education
in the Commonwealth,” Toscano said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  