-- Urban Looks to Amazon in Reaching 50% Online Sales
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-06-26T20:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/urban-looks-to-amazon-in-reaching-50-online-sales.html
Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN) , the operator
of more than 400 stores under brands including Anthropologie, is
looking to  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  as an example as it works to generate
half its sales online, said Chief Financial Officer Frank Conforti.  Chief Executive Officer  Richard Hayne  is “driving the
strategy to push us to rethink how we look at that channel and
how we think about that opportunity,” Conforti said today at an
Oppenheimer & Co. consumer conference in  Boston .  “One of the things that he’s pushed me on in the last few
months is, ‘I want you to forget about the stores just for a few
days and just think about the business as a direct-to-consumer
business,’” Conforti said.  Co-founder Hayne, who replaced Glen Senk as CEO in January,
has said direct-to-consumer sales may make up “a majority” of
Urban’s revenue in as little as five years from about 20 percent
in the period ended Jan. 31. Using tactics that have worked for
Amazon, the retailer has been investing in technology that helps
customers sort through a broad variety of online merchandise and
is opening a second distribution center this year that will cut
standard shipping to two days or less for more than 80 percent
of U.S. customers.  Urban, based in Philadelphia,  declined  1.6 percent this
year while the Standard & Poor’s Consumer Discretionary  Index (S5COND) 
climbed 11 percent. The shares rose 0.8 percent to $27.11 at the
close in New York.  The retailer is looking to recover after  profit  for the
year ended Jan. 31 shrank to a four-year low as its brands
boosted discounts to clear inventory.  Urban, which had $2.47 billion of  sales  in its latest
fiscal year, has hired new management since November, including
 Under Armour Inc. (UA)  executive David McCreight as CEO of the
Anthropologie brand and Ted Marlow returning as head of the
namesake label. Conforti replaced former CFO Eric Artz in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  