-- News Corp.’s Murdoch Said to Consider Splitting Company
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-06-26T20:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/murdoch-said-to-consider-splitting-news-corp-in-two.html
News Corp. (NWS)  is considering breaking
up the company into two publicly held entities after a phone-
hacking scandal at its U.K. newspapers increased pressure to
cordon off the publishing business.  Rupert Murdoch ,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s chairman and chief executive
officer, is overseeing internal discussions on whether to split
publishing from the New York-based company’s entertainment
 business , said two people with knowledge of the matter, who
asked not to be identified because a decision isn’t final. The
shares jumped 8.3 percent on the news.  Murdoch is contemplating the breakup -- a move some
investors have sought for years -- after a hacking scandal
threatened the company’s holdings in satellite-TV company
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. Ofcom, a U.K. media
regulatory agency, is considering whether News Corp. should be
allowed to keep its 39 percent stake in  BSkyB. (BSY)   “I don’t think most corporate  shareholders  want to have
exposure to U.K. newspaper assets,” said  Alex DeGroote , a
London-based analyst at Panmure Gordon. “But I think Rupert
Murdoch wants the assets, so there’s a conflict between what
shareholders want and what Rupert wants.”  Goldman Sachs  News Corp. has hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. for financial
advice on the plan, people with knowledge of the matter said.
The breakup talks are at a late stage, and an announcement may
come as soon as this week, one person said. News Corp. confirmed
the possibility in a statement today, without saying how the
company might be divided.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman at New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment.  News Corp.  shares  climbed $1.68 to $21.76 at the close in
 New York , the biggest gain since August 2011. The stock has
advanced 22 percent this year.  The scandal, which erupted last July, centered on News
Corp.’s tabloid journalists hacking into the phones of U.K.
politicians and celebrities for exclusive stories. The outcry
prompted News Corp. to shelve plans to take full control of
BSkyB, Britain’s biggest pay-TV operator, which was led by
Murdoch’s son James for almost a decade.  News Corp., owner of Fox Broadcasting and  Fox News , derives
at least 70 percent of its annual profit from television, and is
working to expand in markets outside the U.S. with investments
in pay-TV operators. News Corp.’s stock has traditionally traded
at a lower price compared with its media peers because of
Murdoch’s interest in expanding the publishing business at a
time when the industry is in decline.  ‘Toxic Element’  “Isolating the toxic element and separating it into a
vehicle for investors who specialize in these things is a good
idea,” said  Barton Crockett , an analyst with Lazard Capital
Markets in New York.  Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey  said in February that
executives had discussed a breakup after the scandal spread.
“There certainly is an awareness” that News Corp. would trade
at higher multiples if it didn’t own newspapers, Carey said. A
News Corp. official declined to comment at the time.  The publishing division is expected to bring in about $1
billion annually in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to Lazard’s Crockett.  If a split occurs, investors in the rest of the business
“won’t have to sweat bullets at night wondering what’s going to
happen out of this phone-hacking thing,” he said.  Dow Jones  The company’s U.S. publishing assets, which include Dow
Jones & Co., the  Wall Street Journal  and an advertising unit
called News America Marketing, account for as much as 40 percent
of the total publishing business, Crockett estimates. Another 40
percent comes from the company’s Australian newspapers and the
rest from the U.K.’s publishing group. Bloomberg LP, the parent
of Bloomberg News, competes with News Corp. units in providing
financial news and information.  Possible candidates to lead the publishing company include
Lex Fenwick, CEO of Dow Jones;  Tom Mockridge , head of the
company’s U.K. publishing group, who replaced Rebekah Brooks
following the scandal; and Kim Williams, head of the company’s
Australian unit, which also includes television assets.  Murdoch, 81, hails from  Australia , and News Corp. maintains
a large foothold in the country’s newspaper market. The papers,
including national daily  The Australian , bring in about $530
million in annual EBITDA, estimates Brett Harriss, an analyst at
Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York. That’s more than any other
publishing asset within the company, he said.  Newspaper Inserts  Dow Jones accounts for about $200 million by the same
measure, and News America Marketing, which publishes inserts for
newspapers, accounts for about $360 million, according to
Harriss.  The New York Post , which Murdoch also owns, loses as
much as $110 million annually, he said.  A U.K. committee, after probing whether News Corp. misled
Parliament in the phone-hacking scandal, concluded last month
that Murdoch is “not a fit person to exercise the stewardship
of a major international company.”  Murdoch “exhibited willful blindness to what was going on
in his companies and publications,” the House of Commons
Culture Committee said in a report. “This culture, we consider,
permeated from the top.”  Now Ofcom may force News Corp. to sell or cut its stake in
BSkyB. Its 39 percent holding has a market value of 4.3 billion
pounds ($6.7 billion).  ‘Material Influence’  Ofcom, which has said News Corp.’s existing holding gives
it “material influence” over BSkyB, is probing whether News
Corp. and its directors are fit to hold a broadcasting license.
The agency, which monitors corporate control over broadcasters,
would still take News Corp.’s holding into account in any
separate company. Ofcom declined to comment today.  The watchdog, which started gathering evidence in April, is
in talks with the police and examining civil lawsuits from
hacking victims. Appearing before Parliament in July of last
year, Murdoch said it was the “most humble day” of his life.  Police probes into phone and computer hacking and bribery
have led to the arrests of more than 50 people, including Brooks
and  Andy Coulson , a former News of the World editor who was once
the communications chief of Prime Minister  David Cameron . News
Corp. closed the Sunday tabloid in July of last year and later
replaced it with an edition of the Sun tabloid. In the U.K.,
News Corp. also owns the London-based Times and Sunday Times
newspapers.  Operating Income  Publishing contributed about 18 percent of News Corp.’s
operating income in the 2011 financial year, according to  data
compiled by Bloomberg . Cable network programming generated 57
percent of earnings alone.  In the nine months ended March 31, News Corp.’s publishing
unit generated operating income of $458 million, or less than 8
percent of its sales, according to the company’s earnings report
in May. The cable networks, film and television units accounted
for a combined $4 billion in profit, more than 25 percent of
their $15.9 billion in revenue.  “Those that want the higher growth of the broadcast
business and have it able to chase new markets will pay a
premium for that,” said Peter Esho, the Sydney-based chief
market analyst at City Index Ltd. “This is also a good way to
quarantine the rest of the business from the recent issues in
the U.K. when publishing is a small part of the business.”  The Murdoch family would retain control of both companies,
the Wall Street Journal reported today. The Los Angeles-based
Fox film and television studios, the Fox broadcast network and
Fox News would form the bulk of the entertainment company, the
Journal said, citing people familiar with the situation.  A separation of the newspaper business would be in the
interest of many investors and some News Corp. managers, said
 Charlie Beckett , director of the media institute Polis at the
 London School  of Economics.  “It reflects more clearly what a new generation of News
Corp. would be about,” he said. “Newspapers in Britain
especially are a small part of their overall business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  