-- Turkcell Meeting Delayed on Dispute Among Owners; Shares Decline
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-06-26T14:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/turkcell-meeting-delayed-on-dispute-among-owners-shares-decline.html
A  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) 
shareholders meeting was postponed when two of the three main
owners failed to reach agreement over board members and dividend
payments. Shares in the company,  Turkey ’s biggest mobile phone
operator, reversed gains.  Russia’s Altimo and Turkey’s Cukurova Holding AS failed to
agree on how many voting members there should be on the board,
Altimo executive Mustafa Kiral told reporters in Istanbul today.
They also disagreed over dividend payouts from 2010 and 2011
earnings, and the candidates for independent board seats
required by Turkish regulators, he said. Altimo is a unit of
Russian billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s  Alfa Group .  Turkcell  shares  were unchanged from yesterday’s close at
8.72 liras as of 4:40 p.m. today. They had gained as much as 1.8
percent before the postponement was announced.  Cukurova, Alfa and Sweden’s  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  have been
fighting a three-cornered battle for control of Turkcell for
almost a decade. While TeliaSonera is the largest shareholder,
Cukurova has sought to retain control via a complex ownership
structure even as its stake has declined.  TeliaSonera confirmed in an e-mailed statement that the
shareholder meeting was postponed due to a disagreement between
its two partners.  Alfa, which owns 13.2 percent of Turkcell, is suing
Cukurova over an alleged loan default and seeking to seize its
Turkcell shares, which were pledged as collateral. That would
increase Alfa’s stake to 27 percent. The Privy Council in  London 
will make a final ruling on the case in December, Kiral said.  Turkcell currently has seven board members. Cukurova wants
the new board to include seven decision-making members out of
the full count of nine, which would mean “Turkcell can’t make a
decision, practically,” Kiral said. He also said that Cukurova
has opposed payment of a 2010 dividend.  Cukurova declined to comment initially, saying it will make
a statement on the issue later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 