-- Turkish Bonds Recoup Losses Incurred After Syria Warplane Attack
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-06-26T13:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/turkish-bonds-recoup-losses-incurred-after-syria-warplane-attack.html
Turkey bonds recouped all of their
losses incurred after Syria shot down a Turkish warplane four
days ago and the lira strengthened as the government said it
would prefer diplomacy to war, reducing  risk aversion .   Yields on two-year benchmark debt fell 14 basis points, or
0.14 percentage point, to 8.78 percent, which is below the 8.80
percent recorded on June 22, the day Syria downed a F-4 Phantom
jet. Yields have fallen 53 basis points in the second quarter,
extending the decline from the previous three months.  Turkey will seek to resolve the issue using its legal
rights under international law, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc said at a press conference yesterday following a cabinet
meeting in Ankara. The government has invoked article four of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization treaty in calling for a
meeting today of the defensive alliance, Arinc said. Gains in
the lira and bonds accelerated after Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told parliament today Turkey “won’t fall into trap of
provocation.”  “It is important that the possibility of a conflict with
Syria has lessened because this problem was the reason for the
lira’s weakening on Friday afternoon and yesterday,”  Emre Balkeser , head of trading at Garanti Securities in Istanbul,
said in e-mailed comments. “The statements from the government
point that they will take diplomatic steps,” Balkeser said.  Turkey summoned a meeting of its fellow NATO members in
Brussels yesterday to discuss the shooting. NATO Secretary-
General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said the Syrian action was
“unacceptable” and the alliance will “follow the situation
closely.”  Lira Gains  The central bank lent 1 billion liras ($550.7 million) at
the lowest 5.75 percent policy rate today in its one-week
repurchase agreements auction. It provided liquidity at the
minimum funding rate for a 16th consecutive day.  The lira strengthened 0.4 percent to 1.8149 per dollar,
paring its depreciation this quarter to 1.8 percent,
outperforming all the other emerging-market currencies in
 Europe ,  Africa  and the  Middle East .  Moody’s Investors Service upgraded Turkey’s credit rating
to one level below investment grade June 20. The move to Ba1 had
“two main drivers: the significant improvement that we’ve
observed in Turkey’s public finances and our observation that
the government has improved its shock absorption capacity,”
Moody’s analyst  Sarah Carlson  said from  London  after the ratings
action.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  