-- Murray Begins Annual Wimbledon Quest With Win Against Davydenko
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-26T23:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/murray-begins-annual-wimbledon-quest-with-win-against-davydenko.html
Andy Murray  headed to Wimbledon with
question marks over his health and grass-court form.  Yesterday on Centre Court, the world’s fourth-ranked player
from Britain allayed some of those concerns with a 6-1, 6-1, 6-4
win against Nikolay Davydenko.  “The last couple of weeks have been hard,” Murray said in
a televised interview after the match, after he sliced and
served his way past the Russian formerly ranked third in the
world. “I was desperate to get going, because there was a lot
of talk from a lot of people.”  British reporters have focused on Murray’s annual quest to
end the nation’s 76-year men’s title drought in the four tennis
Grand Slam events after  England  was knocked out of the
quarterfinals of soccer’s European Championship on June 24.  Murray, who has lost in the semifinals of Wimbledon the
past three years, entered the 2012 tournament as the bookmakers’
fourth favorite after he was knocked out at Queen’s as defending
champion in his first match two weeks ago.  Last week, he lost twice on grass at an exhibition event,
against the eighth-ranked Janko Tipsarevic and top-ranked Novak Djokovic, the 7-4 favorite to successfully defend his Wimbledon
crown. That means a successful bet on the Serb would bring in $7
plus the original $4 wager.  Djokovic plays  Ryan Harrison  of the U.S. today in a second-
round match, while six-time champion  Roger Federer  of
Switzerland faces Italy’s Fabio Fognini. French Open women’s
champion  Maria Sharapova  of Russia meets Tsvetana Pironkova, a
former semifinalist from  Bulgaria .  ‘Drama Queen’  During the French Open, Murray was called a “drama queen”
by Britain’s most recent Wimbledon singles champion, 1977
women’s winner  Virginia Wade , after his second-round victory in
Paris. He held his back and said later he’d been two points away
from quitting against Finland’s Jarkko Nieminen after he had
back spasms during the night.  The criticism continued after his quarterfinal defeat at
 Roland Garros  to  David Ferrer  of Spain. Former world No. 2  Tommy Haas  told German broadcaster Sport1 that Murray sometimes
exaggerates injuries, and that “people talk about it in the
locker room.”  When confronted with comments eight-time major singles
champion  John McEnroe  made on a conference call last week that a
back injury can at times be mental, Murray reacted angrily.  “I think eight pain-killing injections in your back before
the French Open justifies a genuine injury,” the 25-year-old
right-hander told newspapers including the Sunday Herald in
 Scotland  three days ago. “A lot of people have suggested that
it hasn’t been genuine. I’ve a genuine injury, a genuine back
problem. It’s not a mental thing.”  Back Problems  Murray has refused to disclose the exact nature of his back
problems, only that he’s been struggling since December.  Yesterday at Wimbledon, Murray’s spin, speed and court
coverage overwhelmed Davydenko, who reached No. 3 in 2006.  Murray raced through the first two sets in 55 minutes
against Davydenko as he dictated the points from the start
against the 31-year-old Russian, winner of the 2009 season-
ending ATP World Tour Finals.  “Once I got ahead of him, I wanted to make sure I didn’t
let him back in,” Murray said in a news conference. “He’s
very, very dangerous. He’s a very good returner as well. I
needed to stay concentrated on my serve, and I did it well.”  Murray looked up to the sky and pointed his finger after
Davydenko hit a return long on match point. He’ll play 6-foot-10
(2.08-meter) Ivo Karlovic of  Croatia  or 5-foot-9 Dudi Sela of
 Israel  in the next round.  British Success  “I just wanted to go out there today, play well, keep my
focus, and not worry about the other stuff that goes on off the
court around this time of the year,” Murray said. “I did a
good job of that. Time to let the tennis do the talking.”  Unlike last year, Murray isn’t the only man from the
British Isles to make it out of the opening round --  173rd-
ranked James Ward beat  Spain ’s Pablo Andujar in five sets.
Meanwhile, Elena Baltacha, Heather Watson and Anne Keothavong
all advanced to the second round in the women’s draw.  “Any time the Brits do well in slams it’s good for British
tennis,” Murray said. “It’s been a good tournament so far, and
hopefully it continues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  