-- UVA's President From Ouster to Reinstatement: Timeline
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/uva-president-sullivan-from-ouster-to-reinstatement-timeline.html
Following is a timeline of Teresa Sullivan’s forced resignation and reinstatement as president of
the  University of Virginia , based in Charlottesville.  May 4 - Early June: Rector Helen Dragas and Vice Rector Mark Kington, leaders of UVA’s Board of Visitors, begin an e-mail
exchange expressing concern over the school’s ability to keep up
in online higher education. The e-mails include a series of
shared links to stories about online classroom programs,
including Harvard and MIT’s EdX.  June 3: Jeffrey C. Walker, a member of the board of trustees of
the McIntire School of Commerce Foundation, sends Kington an e-
mail stressing the need to expand online. Dragas, 50, thanks
Walker for the e-mail, writing that the board is “keenly aware
of the rapidly accelerating pace of change.”  June 7: Dragas e-mails UVA President  Teresa Sullivan , 62, asking
for a meeting.  June 8: Sullivan, the university’s first female president,
replies to Dragas’ e-mail, asking if there is anything she ought
to prepare for the meeting.  June 10:  A statement on UVA’s website announces that Sullivan
will step down Aug. 15 due to a “philosophical difference of
opinion” with the Board of Visitors. Dragas  says  the school
needs “bold and proactive leadership” as higher education
rapidly evolves.  June 11:  The Faculty Senate Executive Council issues a statement
questioning the board’s decision to seek Sullivan’s resignation.  June 12: Dragas and Kington privately contact Carl Zeithaml,
dean of the McIntire School of Commerce, about whether he would
be interested in becoming University president. He gives an
“unequivocal” no, but says he will consider stepping in as
interim.  June 14: Faculty Senate leaders approve a resolution supporting
Sullivan and expressing a lack of confidence in Dragas, Kington
and the Board of Visitors. Dragas issues an invitation to meet
with the Faculty Senate.  June 14: Peter Kiernan, chairman of the Darden School (UVA’s
business school) Foundation Board of Trustees, resigns. He
apologizes for an e-mail he sent that suggested he might have
discussed the search for a replacement president with alumni
before Sullivan was asked to resign.  June 17: At a meeting of about 500 faculty members, Provost  John Simon  questions the honor and integrity of the university and
suggests that he might resign over Sullivan’s ouster.  June 17: Paul Tudor Jones II, a 1976 UVA graduate and one of the
university’s top donors, criticizes Sullivan for not acting
proactively enough as president in an opinion piece in
Charlottesville’s Daily Progress newspaper.  June 18: Dragas and Kington are asked to resign by the Faculty
Senate Executive Council, which calls for Sullivan’s
reinstatement. Thousands of students and faculty members gather
in support of Sullivan outside of an afternoon board meeting.  June 19: Zeithaml is named Sullivan’s interim successor by the
board in an e-mailed statement. Vice Rector Kington resigns,
saying he hoped the move could bring “a needed healing
process” to the university.  June 19: The university releases the series of e-mails between
Dragas, Kington and the Board of Visitors from May and June in
response to a freedom-of-information-act request.  June 20: The Faculty Senate releases a statement supporting
Kington’s resignation and renewing its call for Dragas to
resign.  June 20: Zeithmal holds a 3 p.m. press conference to discuss his
appointment. He says he didn’t support the board’s action, but
has agreed to become interim president out of loyalty to the
university and with Simon’s promise to stay on as provost to
help him.  June 20: The Faculty Senate holds a 5 p.m. silent vigil in
support of Sullivan’s reinstatement on the steps of the Rotunda.  June 22:  Virginia  Governor  Bob McDonnell  tells the Board of
Visitors to act decisively to end the furor over Sullivan’s
ouster at their June 26 meeting or he’ll seek the resignations
of all its members.  June 26: The board votes unanimously to reinstate Sullivan as
president. It also expresses a vote of confidence in Rector
Dragas, who apologizes for the way the situation was handled.
Sullivan pledges “to set aside any differences we might have,
and to work hand-in-hand” with Dragas and the rest of the board
to move the university forward.  July 1: Dragas’s term as rector comes up for renewal before
Governor McDonnell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  New York  at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  