-- Vivendi to Focus on SFR Cost Cuts, Levy Tells Investors
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-06-27T06:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/vivendi-to-focus-on-sfr-cost-cuts-levy-tells-investors.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  Chief Executive Officer
 Jean-Bernard Levy  told investors he would focus on cutting costs
at the French wireless unit SFR, a day after the company said
there wasn’t anything to report from a weekend strategy meeting.  The CEO, who had been scheduled to meet with investors
yesterday and give a speech at a media conference organized by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in  London , spoke instead via video
conference from a remote location, according to people with
knowledge of the meeting, who asked not to be identified because
the event wasn’t public. Levy confirmed Vivendi’s full-year
forecasts and reiterated his commitment to the BBB  rating  by
 Standard & Poor’s , said a person who attended the gathering.  Levy, more than seven years at the helm of Vivendi, the
owner of  Universal Music  Group,  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and
phone operators in France, Morocco and Brazil, is poised to
detail plans to SFR unions next week about how he will cut
operating expenses by about 350 million euros ($437 million) in
2013, on top of the 450 million euros budgeted for this year,
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Jean-Louis Erneux, a spokesman for Paris-based Vivendi,
declined to comment, as did Patrick Burton, a spokesman for
JPMorgan in London.  Legal Risks  Shares of Vivendi fell 1.1 percent to 13.42 euros on the
Paris exchange yesterday, bringing the stock’s decline to 18
percent this year. On June 25, Vivendi lost a $956 million
verdict in a U.S. lawsuit over its 2001 purchase from  Liberty
Media Corp. (LMCA)  of its stake in USA Networks Inc. The French company
said it would appeal the ruling.  The lawsuit could lead to higher-than-expected legal
damages, exceeding the 100 million-euro provision Vivendi has
made,  Fitch Ratings  said today in a statement. Fitch rates
Vivendi’s debt BBB, the second-lowest investment grade.  “Vivendi’s rating would come under pressure if there is no
sign of deleveraging in 2013, the year after the EMI transaction
is expected to close, and if there was no clear expectation of
medium-term leverage heading back to below 2.5 times” adjusted
net debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, Fitch said. The measure at the end of the first
quarter was about 2.3 times, according to the rating company.  Strategy Meeting  European regulators have a Sept. 6 deadline to rule on a
bid by Universal Music to acquire EMI Group’s recorded-music
business, which they have said would create a company “almost
twice the size of the next largest player” in  Europe . Universal
may not be sufficiently constrained by smaller competitors,
customers’ buying power or illegal music downloads, the EU said
when it opened an in-depth probe in March.  Levy, 57, is under pressure to revive Vivendi’s stock,
which is trading near its lowest level in nine years.
Shareholders had expected an annual gathering of top executives
last weekend would shed light on plans to its strategy. Vivendi
said June 25 it would communicate its plans “as and when
appropriate”.  As SFR fights back competition from  Iliad SA (ILD) , the
discounter that began selling wireless packages in January, the
Vivendi unit is looking for ways to stop customers from leaving.
Levy said last month that “strategic vision” for the division
will come from Michel Combes, the  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  executive
who will lead SFR starting on Aug. 1.  Levy has also been working on plans to reduce costs at SFR,
although disagreements with SFR’s executives on how to go about
reducing spending have slowed the process, people with knowledge
of the matter said.  French companies must inform labor unions about plans to
reorganize, including staff moves or job cuts, which often lead
to protracted negotiations between management and employees.  Firings in the telecommunucations industry have proved
especially complicated.  France Telecom SA (FTE) , SFR’s main competitor
and the country’s biggest phone operator, was rocked two years
ago by a streak of employee suicides which unions blamed on
stress caused by a reorganization aimed at making the company
more competitive.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  