-- War Rages, Steed Spews Fire in Covent Garden ‘Troyens’
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-06-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/war-rages-steed-spews-fire-in-covent-garden-troyens-.html
The 10-year Trojan siege comes to an
end. “Ha ha!” sing the relieved townspeople.  After they’ve met a huge fire-breathing horse, some
splenetic specters and many untimely deaths over the course of
the next five and a half hours, they’re not so cheerful. What
did you expect from a French grand opera?  Berlioz’s gargantuan “Les Troyens” (“The Trojans,”
composed 1858), now at  Covent Garden  in  London , is just about
the toughest call for an opera house after Wagner’s Ring Cycle.  It requires a stentorian heldentenor who can sound
seductive in French, two doomed mezzos, troops of ballet dancers
and a conductor with the unstoppable get-go of a Panzer tank.
All that, and a Trojan horse with plenty of wow factor.  The Royal Opera serves it up proud in a lavish and
thrilling new production, its first in 40 years.  The early part of the piece deals with the end of the Greek
siege of Troy, and the arrival of the wooden horse. Everyone is
ecstatic, except the gloomy prophetess Cassandre.  The Trojans don’t listen to her, which is a big mistake.
Since Cassandre writhes on the floor a lot and has eyes painted
on her hands, perhaps it’s understandable.  The horse is stuffed with enemy Greeks, and there’s a
battle. A bloodstained ghost commands Enee (Aeneas) to flee,
take the city’s treasure, go to  Italy , found a new Troy, and die
a hero’s death.  Dido’s Fury  The second part takes place in Carthage, in North Africa.
Aeneas dallies there on his way to Italy, and falls in love with
Queen Dido (in the opera called Didon). When more spoilsport
Trojan ghosts order Aeneas to get to Italy, he abandons her.  Dido is miffed. As she prepares to kill herself, she calls
for eternal war between Africa and  Rome , between East and West.  It’s stirring stuff, profuse in luxurious French melodies
and ear-tickling orchestration. There’s an odd whistling sound
when the ghosts appear. There are weird rumbling brass noises to
depict serpents. The rocking string accompaniment to the
climactic love duet pulses with sensuality.  Antonio Pappano conducts like a man possessed, and creates
some thrilling off-stage surround-sound moments too.  Director David McVicar updates the Trojan action to  France 
in the era of the opera’s composition. Since this was a period
of military expansion for the country, it makes sense. For the
Carthage scenes, he provides a less-specific North African
setting awash with ochers and terra cottas.  Equine Sensation  Designer Es Devlin’s Trojan Horse must go down as one of
the largest props ever created by the Royal Opera. Made from
rifles, cannons and military paraphernalia, the rocking equine
head looks fabulous, and creates a sensation when it spews fire.  There’s another huge fiery prop at the end of Dido’s death
scene that doesn’t create the same effect. It’s just one
disappointing moment in an otherwise beautifully judged show.  The singing is top-drawer. Anna Caterina Antonacci is as
fire-breathing as any of the props in the mezzo role of
Cassandre, and invests her dark-toned voice with horror and
rage. It’s a performance of astonishing physicality: She twists
and contorts as visions of horror and destruction invade her.  Soprano Eva-Maria Westbroek is a luminous Didon (a role
usually taken by a mezzo) who radiates queenly authority and
love in equal measure. Her despair and fury when Aeneas leaves
are awe-inspiring.  Brian Hymel is the real deal as Aeneas. Blessed with a
strong, lyrical voice that opens and soars the higher it goes,
he sounds equally good in the heroic and amorous scenes.  On the first night, the audience reserved applause until
the end of each act, except when Hymel thundered out his pulse-
quickening B flat at the end of “Ah! Quand viendra l’instant
des supremes adieux” (Oh, when the moment comes for the final
farewell). After that aria, the crowd went wild.  The supporting roles are beautifully done, the enlarged
chorus makes a monumental sound, and the ballets add yet another
element of lavishness to an already grand production.  Rating: ****.  “Les Troyens” is sponsored by Rolex Group and the
Monument Trust in Memory of Simon Sainsbury, among other donors,
and is in repertoire at the Royal Opera through July 11.
Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000. It is a
co-production among  Vienna State Opera ,  Teatro alla Scala  and
 San Francisco Opera , and will travel in due course.  The production will be broadcast in movie houses in
November (see the ROH website for details), and will be
available for viewing free online at  http://www.thespace.org 
from July 5 through Oct. 31.  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 