-- What Pakistan Can Teach the U.S. About Egypt
-- B y   V a l i   N a s r
-- 2012-06-26T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/what-pakistan-can-teach-the-u-s-about-egypt.html
Egypt  finally has a freely elected
president. That hardly brightens the prospect for a transition
to true democracy, however, given that the country’s generals
have made clear it is they who are actually in charge.  It’s a familiar tale, with recent parallels in Pakistan and
Turkey, where overbearing militaries have also manipulated the
democratic process. In Pakistan, the result is a failing state.
In Turkey, civilians have prevailed, producing an economically
strong, regionally influential country. Their stories offer
lessons to the West about how to help steer Egypt in the
direction of success.  Egypt’s generals have traveled a long distance from the
days, 18 months ago, when they distanced themselves from
President  Hosni Mubarak  and let the revolution against him take
its course. Today, their diffidence has been replaced by an
 increasing bullishness . In recent weeks, they have dismissed the
elected parliament, arrogated new powers, and put Mohamed Mursi
of the Muslim Brotherhood on notice that he can assume the
presidency only if he accepts the military’s oversight.  There were signs of the coming recrudescence. When Egypt’s
interim government rejected a badly needed  assistance package 
from the  International Monetary Fund , it was at the urging of
the military. The IMF demanded reforms that would have impinged
on the prerogatives of the military, whose enterprises account
for a third of the economy.  Brazen Taunts  The military was also behind raids on nongovernmental
organizations working to promote democracy in Egypt, including
three U.S. groups. Those moves were matched by brazen taunting
of political parties -- especially Islamist groups -- with
warnings that they had better not take their newfound liberties
too seriously.  The military saw little reason to restrain itself. The
sagging economy and fatigue with revolution produced a nostalgia
for authoritarianism among many Egyptians. The international
community seemed largely indifferent. That the U.S.  authorized
military aid to Egypt  even after the NGO affair convinced the
generals there would be no retribution for a power grab.  In many of their moves, Egypt’s generals seemed to be
following the 1988 script of their Pakistani counterparts. After
the demise of military dictator Zia Ul-Haq in a plane crash, the
Pakistani army withdrew to its barracks and let free elections
bring a civilian government to power. However, the generals
informed Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto that her authority was
limited to simple administrative issues and she could not
interfere with the military’s role in the economy. When she
defied them, the military used a  constitutional amendment  from
Zia’s days to dismiss her. It did the same with her successor
and with Bhutto again until a 1999 military coup interrupted
democracy.  Pakistan  resumed elections in 2008, but democratic
institutions remain feeble. This month, the judiciary fired the
prime minister for failing to investigate the president for
corruption. Two decades of this charade have made for a weak
country, infested with corruption and extremism, on the edge of
instability.  Turkey’s military also tightly controlled the democratic
process from 1993 to 2002, mostly using the judiciary to
discipline and control politicians. The courts dismissed an
Islamist-led government in 1997 and twice banned Islamist
parties.  But in Turkey, the military’s gambit has failed. Beginning
in 2002, with the landslide parliamentary victory of the mildly
Islamist Justice and Development Party, the military’s hold on
power began to slip. Over the past two years, civilians have
gained the upper hand.  Weak Institutions  Which way might Egypt go? Egypt’s civilian institutions are
weaker than those of either Pakistan or  Turkey , whose democratic
traditions date back to the 1950s. Turkey’s economy in the early
2000s was stronger than Egypt’s is now and was less controlled
by its generals. It helped that Turkey’s Islamist parties
moderated their positions, something Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood
has not done with much credibility.  What may matter most, however, is the role of the
international community. The U.S. supported democracy in
Pakistan in principle, but its sympathies were with the
military. American aid didn’t prevent the military from strong-
arming the civilian government, nor did it stand in the way of
the 1999 coup that upended democracy altogether.  The European Union, by contrast, made clear that Turkey
would have no future with  Europe  if its military ran the
government. Turkey agreed to those terms as part of the  criteria
for EU candidacy . The closer Turkey got to Europe politically
and economically, the weaker the military’s hand became, and the
stronger civil society and the private sector grew.  The future of democracy in Egypt will largely depend on
whether Western powers respond as the U.S. did to Pakistan or as
Europe did to Turkey. Accordingly, the U.S., in
particular, should work to protect Egypt’s young democracy. It
can do so by using its considerable leverage with the Egyptian
military, achieved through decades of close connections and $1.3
billion in annual aid.  This would not mean engaging in the day-to-day grind of
Egyptian politics, a futile undertaking. Rather, the U.S. should
push the generals for meaningful economic reform, such as
privatization, lifting trade restrictions, and encouraging
direct foreign investment. These measures would clip the
military’s wings while empowering civil society and the private
sector. That is what set Turkey on its path to prosperity and
democracy. It can work for Egypt, too.  (Vali Nasr is a Bloomberg View contributor, dean of the
Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at  Johns
Hopkins University  and a senior fellow in foreign policy at the
 Brookings Institution . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Supreme Court’s Montana
decision  and the  limits of Italy’s technocracy ; Clive Crook on
U.S.  health care’s overheated politics ;  Edward Glaeser  on the
 troubling history of federal mandates ;  Peter Orszag  on  natural-
gas cars and trucks ; Richard J. Carroll on why a president’s
economic performance  depends on his predecessor’s record ; John
C. Dugan and T. Timothy Ryan Jr. on why the Dodd-Frank law  puts
to rest “too big to fail .”  To contact the writer of this article:
Vali Nasr at  vnasr@jhu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at   lbeyer3@bloomberg.net  