-- Williams Sisters, Nadal Set to Defend Olympic Titles in London
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-06-26T17:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/williams-sisters-isner-roddick-named-to-american-olympic-team.html
Venus and  Serena Williams  of the
U.S. and Spain’s  Rafael Nadal  will have the chance to defend
their Olympic tennis titles after being named among the players
competing at this year’s Games.  Roger Federer  and Stanislas Wawrinka, winners of the men’s
doubles in Beijing in 2008, will also compete again together on
the grass courts of Wimbledon as part of the Swiss team.  Nineteen of the current top 20 in both the men’s and
women’s singles rankings are scheduled to play, with only Mardy Fish of the U.S. and France’s Marion Bartoli missing out.
Russia’s  Elena Dementieva  has retired and won’t be defending the
women’s singles title.  “We are delighted to see the strongest ever field in the
history of the Olympic tennis event,” International Tennis
Federation President Francesco Ricci Bitti said in a statement.
“Since tennis’s return to the Olympics in 1988, the event has
continued to grow at each games, with the current generation of
players all embracing this unique opportunity to represent their
country.”  The Williams sisters have been included for both the
singles competition and the doubles, which they won last time.
They have strong records at the All England Club, with Venus
taking the singles title five times and Serena four times.  Nadal, an 11-time Grand Slam champion, has won twice at
Wimbledon and was runner-up to current top-ranked Novak Djokovic
last year. Serbia’s Djokovic won the Olympic bronze medal four
years ago.  There are 64 entries for each of the singles tournaments at
the Olympics, with a limit of four players for each country per
gender. The doubles events, including mixed doubles for the
first time since 1924, will have 32 teams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 