-- Wolfson Gains on Samsung Smartphone Audio Supply: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-06-26T15:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/wolfson-gains-on-samsung-smartphone-audio-supply-london-mover.html
Wolfson Microelectronics Plc (WLF) , a U.K.
semiconductor maker, rose to the highest price in more than
three months after saying its Audio Hub technology is being used
in Samsung Electronics Co.’s latest Galaxy smartphone.  The  shares  gained 5.3 percent to 200 pence, the highest
since March 9, extending their advance this year to 53 percent.
Wolfson, based in Edinburgh, was the best performer in the  FTSE
All-Share Technology Index (FTSEIT)  of 28 companies.  Sales of the Galaxy S III, a rival to  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  iPhone,
are set to surpass 10 million units in July, according to
Samsung, the world’s largest handset maker. The smartphone,
which went on sale in 28 countries on May 29, probably will sell
faster than previous models, J.K. Shin, head of the Suwon, South
Korea-based company’s mobile-phone business, said yesterday.  Wolfson has supplied its Audio Hub technology for previous
 Samsung (005930)  phones, including the Wave and Galaxy S. The new phone
is using Wolfson’s ultra-low power hub, which extends battery
life, the Scottish company said in a statement today. Audio Hub
enhances voice-call quality and sound for music and video.  Nick James, an analyst at Numis Securities Ltd., upgraded
Wolfson to  buy  from hold today and raised his 12-month price
target to 250 pence from 190 pence. “The strong performance so
far of Galaxy S3 increases our conviction that consensus
estimates are too low,” he said in a note to clients.  Wolfson’s full-year revenue is set to increase 14 percent
to $178.7 million, according to the average estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. James estimates sales of $210
million and adjusted earnings of 10 cents a share. The average
EPS estimate is 1.5 cents.  Wolfson is rebounding after its stock fell 55 percent last
year as customers delayed orders on slowing consumer demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net . 