-- Wyndham Hotels Sued by FTC Over Alleged Data Breach
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-06-26T19:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/wyndham-hotels-sued-by-ftc-over-alleged-data-breach.html
Wyndham Worldwide Corp. (WYN) , the
franchiser of  Days Inn  hotels and  Super 8  motels, was sued by
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission over security breaches that
led to more than 500,000 credit cards being compromised.  The data breaches led to fraudulent charges on customers’
accounts and the export of credit card information to an
Internet domain address registered in  Russia , the FTC said in a
statement on its website today.  “Wyndham’s privacy policy misrepresented the security
measures that the company and its subsidiaries took to protect
consumers’ personal information,” the FTC said in a complaint
filed today in federal court in  Arizona . The breaches led to
more than $10.6 million in “fraud losses,” the FTC said.  Wyndham, based in Parsippany,  New Jersey , licenses the
Wyndham name to about 90 hotels under franchise and management
agreements. The company in April reported that first-quarter
revenue rose about 9 percent to $1.04 billion, while net income
fell 56 percent to $32 million because of early extinguishment
charges related to debt tender offers. The shares have climbed
60 percent in the past year.  “We regret the FTC’s recent decision to pursue litigation,
as we have fully cooperated in its investigation and believe its
claims are without merit,” Michael Valentino, a Wyndham
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. Wyndham will fight the
agency’s suit and doesn’t expect it to have a material impact on
the company, he said.  According to the FTC’s complaint, Wyndham exposed
consumers’ personal data to unauthorized access three times
between 2008 and 2009 and failed to take security measures to
prevent future intrusions.  Privacy Report  The FTC has stepped up enforcement of data security and
privacy breaches. The agency settled a complaint on June 12
against  Spokeo , a Pasadena, California-based search engine, for
selling personal information in violation of the law. Spokeo
agreed to pay $800,000.  In March, the FTC issued a privacy report in which it
called on companies to improve protection of consumer privacy.  Last year, the FTC signed consent decrees with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc. over privacy violations,
requiring the companies to adopt comprehensive privacy programs
and submit to audits. Social-networking company MySpace Inc.
settled similar allegations with the agency last month.  The FTC issued its largest fine in a privacy-related case
in 2006 against data broker ChoicePoint Inc. for compromises of
financial records of more than 163,000 consumers. ChoicePoint
agreed to pay $10 million in civil penalties and $5 million in
consumer redress in a settlement.  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Wyndham Worldwide
Corporation, 12-cv-01365, U.S. District Court, District of
Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  