-- Zucaro: Keeping Mortgage Unit Less Daunting Than Spinoff
-- B y   S t e v e n   N o r t o n   a n d   L a u r a   J .   K e l l e r
-- 2012-06-26T20:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/zucaro-keeping-mortgage-unit-less-daunting-than-spinoff.html
Old Republic International Corp. (ORI) 
said keeping its money-losing mortgage-insurance operation
became a better option after stakeholders objected that their
interests could have been hurt by a separation.  “We ultimately decided that backing off from the spinoff
strategy would be, in the long run, a less daunting task from a
pure business-management standpoint,” Chief Executive Officer
Aldo Zucaro said today in a conference call held by the Chicago-
based company.  Old Republic shares plunged 22 percent in two trading days
following an announcement June 22 that it had halted the spinoff
for its Republic Financial Indemnity Group unit after facing
resistance from objectors it didn’t identify at the time. The
insurer’s stakeholders include banks, government-sponsored
enterprises, bondholders and employees, Zucaro said today.  The unit, which protects lenders and mortgage investors
when borrowers default, “has to always address and balance the
views of various stakeholder interests,” Zucaro said.  Old Republic was unchanged in  New York  trading today at
4:02 p.m. after Zucaro said that the parent company can
withstand losses from the mortgage unit.  “We have indicated in our public filings, in our
discussions, the fact that, based on everything we know today,
there is no liquidity crisis at Old Republic,” he said. “We
still think that we’re going to be able to convince the
shareholders that they should look at the business through the
same kind of clear glasses as we do, as opposed to what appear
to be some dark-colored glasses.”  Rationale Questioned  Zucaro is seeking to limit losses from backing home loans
and focus on products such as title insurance and commercial-
liability coverage. He said today that the company is working
with the state regulator in  North Carolina  to pay mortgage
insurance obligations after the unit ran short of capital and
doesn’t plan to provide RFIG with funds that would be needed to
cover more home loans.  Losses over the past few years “bring into question the
very rationale of the MI business model,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Norton in New York at 
 Snorton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  