-- Zynga Unveils Network Enabling Gaming Across Sites, Devices
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-06-27T00:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-26/zynga-announces-social-network-that-enables-gaming-among-friends.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  introduced a social-
neworking service designed to make it easier for users to play
online games across different mobile devices and existing sites.  Zynga With Friends will enable interactive game-playing
that spans Zynga’s own site and  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the largest
social-networking service, as well  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
operating systems that run on various computers and smartphones,
Zynga said at an event in  San Francisco .  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  is using acquisitions
and product development to reach new users on the Web and mobile
devices, where more games are being played. Partnering with
outside developers may also help lessen Zynga’s reliance on
 Facebook , which  accounted  for 92 percent of revenue in the first
quarter.  “The real goal is just to get more players, and the fact
is that there are people who will play games who aren’t on
Facebook,” said  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc. “It’s smart not to be wedded to Facebook.”  The Zynga With Friends service will let game developers add
social features, such as chatting, multiplayer support, social
connections and a feed that shows players what their friends
have been playing.  ‘Symbiotic Relationship’  In an interview, Pincus denied that Zynga is trying to
distance itself from Facebook in mobile. The ties between the
companies will only strengthen as more people play games on
Facebook via such devices, he said.  “Where we go, Facebook goes,” Pincus said today at his
company’s headquarters. “The same kind of symbiotic
relationship that we have on the Web will happen on mobile.”  San Francisco-based Zynga fell 5 percent to $5.77 at the
close in  New York . The stock has fallen 39 percent this year.  Zynga also announced partnerships that let outside
developers, including 50 Cubes,  Majesco Entertainment Co. (COOL)  and
Polarium, make games for Zynga.com.  Zynga plans to help its partners generate revenue by
bringing more users to their games, providing services that let
them sell virtual goods and giving them a cut from the sales of
ads shown beside their applications, the company said.  ‘The Ville’  Executives at Zynga showed clips from unreleased games,
including “The Ville,” an app in which users build and
decorate a home; “ChefVille,” a culinary game; and a new
casino program, “Zynga Elite Slots.”  Six new games were offered in the first quarter of this
year, helping Zynga grow to 182 million monthly users, up 25
percent from the same period a year earlier.  The company expects to spend hundreds of millions of
dollars acquiring game developers over the next three to five
years, Pincus told Bloomberg in an interview earlier this year.  Zynga owns the five most popular games played on Facebook,
according to  AppData . “Texas HoldEm Poker,” with 33.7 million
users, and “CityVille,” with 29.8 million users, top the
social gaming charts.  “Bubble Safari,” which the company built and introduced
in May, is the third-most popular game on Facebook with 26
million users, according to AppData. “Draw Something,” which
Zynga acquired through its March purchase of OMGPop, is in
fourth with 22.2 million users.  Facebook takes a cut of virtual goods sold in Zynga games,
such as crops and tractor equipment in “FarmVille.” While
Zynga is the dominant provider of games on Facebook, it faces
significantly more competition on smartphones and tablets.  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook has said its revenue
may be negatively affected by users accessing the site on mobile
devices rather than personal computers, since the company’s
ability to make money off mobile users is unproven.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  