-- ‘Big Fish’ Is a Gorgeous, Charming, Dream Musical: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-10-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/-big-fish-is-a-gorgeous-charming-dream-musical-review.html
I doubt Broadway has ever seen a
prettier, more sensuously kinetic musical than Susan Stroman’s
adaptation of “ Big Fish ” set to music by Andrew Lippa (“The
 Addams Family .”)  It’s enchanting, especially once it slows down a bit to
catch its breath. That doesn’t happen until the second act, but
it won’t matter much, even to fans of the Tim Burton movie (or
the Daniel Wallace novel that started it all).  When the brooding trees begin their laconic dance before
morphing into swamp witches, you know you’re watching a Stroman
show. By then, we’ve already fallen under the spell of Edward
Bloom, Alabama homeboy, teller of tall tales and creaky jokes,
absentee husband and father.  The part is custom made for Norbert Leo Butz, who hasn’t
had such a meaty role since “Dirty Rotten Scoundrels.” His
ingratiating singing and dancing bespeak the rare man
comfortable in his own skin, and he has that indefinable
charismatic spark that defines a star.  Butz is as irresistible as the stories Edward spins,
whether wooing the daffodil-bedazzled love of his life, played
with well-deep reserves of endurance and charm by Kate Baldwin,
or courting in a different way his disappointed son, Will,
played with effortless sincerity by Bobby Steggert.  USO Show  We encounter a traveling circus, a towering giant, a trio
of dancing elephants seen only from the rear and a leggy USO
show that’s pure heavenly Irving Berliniana.  When Will discovers, as Edward lies dying of cancer, a
secret mortgage paid for in the name of a woman not his mother,
the son begins drawing conclusions about the dad who was never
home for sports events.  But “Big Fish” abjures cynicism. Stroman and her A-team
of designers -- Julian Crouch, sets; Benjamin Pearcy,
projections; Donald Holder, lighting; and costume
designer William Ivey Long -- bring us fully into Edward’s
ravishing Technicolor worlds.  They treat us to one knockout dance number after another,
each with Stroman’s signature flashes of whimsy and humor.
Lippa’s USO number is particularly vibrant and a late ballad for
Baldwin, “I Don’t Need a Roof,” is genuinely touching.  The show begins with father and son slapping their thighs
as a rainfall of fish leaps from the river. It ends on the same
banks, the circle they have traveled now satisfyingly complete.  At the Neil Simon Theatre, 250 W. 52nd St. Information: +1-877-250-2929;  http://www.ticketmaster.com .
Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Manuela Hoelterhoff on the  New York 
City Opera and  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 