-- Abengoa Bioethanol Arm Raided in EU Manipulation Probe
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-10-07T14:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/abengoa-is-investigated-in-eu-oil-price-manipulation-probe.html
Abengoa SA (ABG) , owner of continental
Europe’s biggest bioethanol plant, said that it’s being
investigated as part of the European Union’s antitrust probe
into possible manipulation of oil and biofuel prices.  The company and its Rotterdam-based Abengoa Bioenergy
Trading Europe unit were inspected over possible collusion to
manipulate the Platts market-on-close process and exclude
companies from the way prices are assessed, Abengoa said in a
U.S. regulatory filing dated Oct. 4.  Abengoa is the latest name to emerge in the probe that
started in May with raids on the offices of energy news and
price publisher Platts,  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  and Argos Energies to gather evidence of possible collusion
in oil and biofuel pricing.  Pannonia Ethanol , a Hungarian
ethanol producer, complained to the European Union’s antitrust
arm last year, saying Platts denied it the opportunity to
contribute to the price assessments.  “We are actively cooperating with the European Commission
in its investigation” and all units “have at all times
complied with the applicable competition laws,” Abengoa said in
the filing.  The “suspected anticompetitive conduct, agreements and/or
mutually coordinated concrete actions have allegedly existed
since 2002 and would likely involve various markets for which
the Platts MOC process is used to report prices, including
markets for biofuels,” Abengoa said.  Instant Messages  Platts has  assessed  prices for crude oil, petroleum
products and related swaps using its  market on close  process
since 2002 in  Europe . Traders voluntarily report bids, offers
and trades to Platts through e-mails, instant messages and phone
conversations in a defined window period each day, which are
then used to create end-of-day price assessments for various
commodities, including crude oil and ethanol.  Abengoa said in a separate statement today it would raise
about 400 million euros from a share sale. The Seville, Spain-based company aims to repay about 323 million euros due this
year and next year. The shares  slipped  as much as 5 percent and
fell 2.4 percent at 3:56 p.m. in Madrid trading.  EU regulators said in May that even small distortions of
prices used as benchmarks for commodities and derivatives may
have a huge impact on the prices of crude oil, refined oil
products and biofuels purchases and sales that may have been
passed on to final customers. It said there is no deadline for
its investigation.  Platts Checks  Platts, a unit of New York-based McGraw Hill Financial
Inc., and the  oil companies  raided have all said they’re
cooperating with the EU probe.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the Brussels-based
antitrust watchdog, declined to comment on the involvement of
Abengoa.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
Platts and other companies in providing energy markets news and
information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  