-- Madagascar Presidential Candidate Vows Tax Cuts for Economy
-- B y   A n n e l i e   R o z e b o o m
-- 2013-10-08T11:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/madagascar-presidential-candidate-vows-tax-cuts-to-boost-economy.html
Madagascar presidential candidate
Jean Louis Robinson said he’ll cut taxes and take steps to
attract foreign investors to help resuscitate economic growth
that’s been at a standstill since a coup four years ago.  Robinson, 61, will run against at least 30 candidates in
elections scheduled for Oct. 25. The vote has been delayed
multiple times since Andry Rajoelina, a former nightclub disc
jockey, seized power with the help of the military in 2009,
deposing President  Marc Ravalomanana  and causing donors to shun
the Indian Ocean island nation.  “I would like to lower taxes, and make sure investors come
back,” Robinson, 61, said in an interview yesterday in the
capital, Antananarivo. “Many investors have told me that they
have been waiting for these elections to happen, and that they
will leave if it takes much longer.”  The coup plunged the world’s second-largest vanilla grower
into a political crisis and the  economy  has posted no growth
over the past four years, according to International Monetary
Fund data. That compares with a 5.7 percent annual expansion
before Rajoelina took power. Economic growth is  forecast  by the
IMF at 2.6 percent this year and 3.8 percent in 2014.  The  African Union  suspended the nation and imposed
sanctions against Rajoelina and 108 other government officials,
the European Union froze a $600 million aid program and the U.S.
shelved a preferential trade agreement.  Mining Projects  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , based in  London , has a $5 billion titanium
mine in the country,  Canada ’s  Sherritt International Corp. (S)  has a
40 percent stake in the  Ambatovy  nickel mine, and  Lemur
Resources Ltd. (LMR) , a Perth, Australia-based coal-exploration
company, operates the  Imaloto  thermal-coal project.  “Investors need to know that contracts are contracts and
once signed, will be respected; at the same time, the population
is suffering from criminal attacks,” said Robinson. “There can
not be development without security.”  The country’s tourism industry faced a possible setback
this month when mobs killed two Europeans accused of organ
trafficking, prompting Western nations including  France  to issue
travel warnings. The country attracts more than 200,000 visitors
a year, according to the  African Development Bank .  A medical doctor and a former health minister under
Ravalomanana, Robinson formed the Avana party to take part in
this month’s election. Rajoelina and Ravalomanana’s wife, Lalao,
in August were removed from a list of presidential candidates.
Former President Didier Ratsiraka was also barred.  Power Players  Rajoelina, Ratsiraka and Ravalomanana, who lives in exile
in  South Africa , will remain influential figures and still wield
power from behind the scenes after the vote, U.S.-based
Strategic Forecasting Inc. said in an e-mailed note on Sept. 18.  The men “will continue dominating Malagasy politics, even
if the three cannot directly run for office,” Stratfor said.
“In fact, barring them from candidacy could result in a
backlash as their supporters respond with violence.” Bombs have
exploded in Antananarivo this year ahead of elections with no
casualties reported, according to Stratfor.  Voting will go to a run-off if no single candidate gets a
majority in the first round. Robinson will reach the second
round, according to 70 percent of the 1,084 people surveyed by
Tana News, a Madagascar-based news website.  Robinson said his policy priorities also include enrolling
more children in school, expanding access to health care,
creating an independent judiciary and fighting corruption.  “I believe this country can be developed very fast,” said
Robinson. “It just needs serenity, reconciliation and
investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annelie Rozeboom in Antananarivo at 
 arozeboom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  