-- Aeropostale Seen Winning 57% LBO Premium: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-10-07T13:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/aeropostale-seen-winning-57-lbo-premium-real-m-a.html
Aeropostale Inc. (ARO) , the worst
performing teen-clothing stock in the last three years, still
has enough value to reward shareholders with a takeover premium
of as much as 57 percent.  After Sycamore Partners disclosed an 8 percent stake in the
retailer last month, investors began to wager that the private-equity firm will eventually make a buyout offer for the rest of
the $750 million company. The stock is still down 58 percent
since 2010, the biggest decline among its North American
competitors, amid fashion misfires that reduced profits.  While the New York-based chain revamped its clothing to
better appeal to 14- to 17-year-old shoppers, plunging  margins 
leave a buyer plenty of room to make further improvements,
Morningstar Inc. said. Avondale Partners LLC estimates
Aeropostale may be able to sell itself for as much as $15 a
share, 57 percent more than last week’s price. The median sales
multiple paid for apparel-retail deals in the region implies a
$16 bid, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  If Aeropostale can “turn things around, then there’s
probably a lot of value as a public company or as an LBO
candidate,”  Howard Tubin , a New York-based analyst at Royal
Bank of Canada, said in a phone interview. “The valuation
depends on whether it can get back to historical levels of
profitability.”  Michael Freitag , a spokesman for New York-based Sycamore
who works for Joele Frank Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher, declined to
comment on the firm’s plans for the investment. Jessy Adams, a
spokeswoman for Aeropostale who works for FTI Consulting Inc.,
also declined to comment.  Big Plunge  Aeropostale shares plunged 20 percent on Aug. 23 to $8.76,
the lowest since 2008, after the company said that  same-store
sales  slid 15 percent in the second quarter because of weak
customer traffic and increased promotions. In the past three
years, it’s been the worst performer in the Bloomberg Industries
Teen/Young Adult Clothing Stores Index, which  gained  24 percent.  Sycamore, through its Hummingbird LLC unit, bought 6.25
million shares of Aeropostale from Aug. 23 through Sept. 12 for
prices ranging from $8.27 to $8.76 apiece, according to a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. It’s the
fourth-biggest  shareholder , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Today, Aeropostale shares fell 1.1 percent to $9.45 at 9:49
a.m.  New York  time.  In June, Sycamore completed a $534 million buyout of Hot
Topic Inc., another retailer that caters to young adults. In
2012, it bought struggling women’s clothing chain Talbots Inc.  Sycamore Record  The New York Post wrote in a Twitter post last month that
Sycamore has no immediate plans to bid for Aeropostale. This
week, The Street’s TheDeal.com  reported  that the private-equity
firm is “ultimately looking to buy” Aeropostale, citing an
unnamed source close to the situation.  Given Sycamore’s track record,  Richard Jaffe , a New York-based analyst at Stifel Financial Corp., says Sycamore probably
will attempt to take Aeropostale private.  “Investors should be very excited about Sycamore being on
board,” Rebecca Duval, a Boston-based analyst at BlueFin
Research Partners Inc., wrote in a Sept. 19 report. “In about
two years Sycamore has made great progress in turning around
Talbots, a company many had written off as dead.”  Duval was director of production at Talbots when Sycamore
first took a stake in it. As far as Aeropostale, “the surgery
that needs to be done doesn’t even compare to what had to be
done at Talbots,” she wrote.  Store Glut  Aeropostale has too many stores, and a private-equity buyer
could shut down the underperforming ones, said Jaime Katz, a
Chicago-based analyst at Morningstar. There were more than 1,100
stores as of Aug. 3, including its P.S. From Aeropostale chain,
which targets kids ages 4 to 12, according to a filing.  Aeropostale’s  operating margin , on an annual basis, peaked
at about 17 percent for the year that ended in January 2010 and
has been slipping ever since. The chain had almost 10 cents of
operating losses for each dollar of sales in the past 12 months,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Its gross margin, or ability to
mark up prices, is the lowest in the peer group, the data show.  “To go from 17 percent margins to negative margins in
three years says something about the business,” Katz said in a
phone interview. “Either the merchandise isn’t resonating
properly or the business isn’t being run efficiently.
Something’s not working.”  Sycamore’s investment may have strategic benefits because
of its 51 percent stake in Mast Global Fashions, one of the
world’s largest independent apparel sourcing companies,
according to Maxim Group LLC’s  Rick Snyder .  ‘Merchandise Problem’  Mast, a unit of  L Brands Inc. (LTD) , could help Aeropostale
transform into a “fast fashion” brand if it decided to make
that shift, and Mast’s scale may even reduce Aeropostale’s
average unit costs, the New York-based analyst said.  “Aeropostale has great distribution, but they have a
merchandise problem, and Mast has merchandise, but would love
this type of distribution,” Snyder said in a phone interview.
“Sycamore can potentially tie those two together. That makes a
tremendous amount of sense.”  Based on Sycamore’s previous buyouts, a deal with
Aeropostale could surface in the next six to nine months,  Jeff Black , a Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst at Avondale Partners
LLC, wrote in a Sept. 18 report. He estimates that the retailer
would fetch $12 to $15 a share in a takeover. Morningstar’s
Katz, whose fair value  estimate  for Aeropostale is $12, said she
also could see a deal in the $14 to $15 range.  Acquisitions of North American apparel and shoe retailers
had a median revenue multiple of 0.5, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That implies $16 a share for Aeropostale, valuing
the company at about $1.2 billion net of  cash , the data show.
The company has no debt.  A potential takeout price likely will be determined by
Aeropostale’s performance in the current quarter and during the
 holiday shopping season , Duval of BlueFin Research said.  “It really will depend on when Sycamore will consider the
right time to make the offer and if current business conditions
persist or get better or worse,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  