-- Agent Barred From Writing About Gun Operation, ACLU Says
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2013-10-07T22:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/agent-barred-from-writing-about-gun-operation-aclu-says.html
The U.S. government is barring a
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives agent from
publishing a book about a botched gun operation called Fast and
Furious, the  American Civil Liberties Union  said.  The ACLU said agent John Dodson of the ATF field division
in Phoenix was prohibited from writing about the operation. An
ATF ethics official said in a letter that allowing Dodson to
publish a book about Fast and Furious could harm morale and the
bureau’s relationships with other federal law enforcement
agencies, the ACLU said.  In a letter to ATF, the ACLU said the bureau’s policy was
too restrictive and violated Dodson’s free-speech rights.  “As a knowledgeable and informed ‘insider’ who was
directly involved in Operation Fast and Furious, agent Dodson
will add significantly to the national conversation about gun
policy and its implementation by federal law enforcement
agencies,” the ACLU’s letter said.  Dodson was one of the first law enforcement officials to
publicly criticize operations where agents allowed firearms to
“walk” -- be purchased by straw buyers and cross into  Mexico .  The operations were intended to lead law enforcement
authorities to individuals in Mexican drug cartels, which
utilize straw purchasers to get guns for their organizations.  One of the operations, known as Fast and Furious, became a
focal point for congressional investigators as they sought to
identify the origins and driving forces behind the program.  Inspector General  The  Justice Department ’s inspector general, Michael Horowitz, released a  report  in September 2012 outlining
management failures at the ATF and the Justice Department as
part of the operation that lost track of about 2,000 guns
purchased by straw buyers. Two of those guns were found at the
scene of the 2010 killing in  Arizona  of U.S. Border Patrol Agent
Brian Terry.  ATF spokesman Timothy Graden said in an e-mailed statement
today that federal regulations prohibit agents from “writing
about issues that arise from his or her duties as a special
agent and profiting from his or her experiences while still
acting in the special agent capacity.”  In a statement released by the ACLU, Dodson said, “We have
a right to know and talk about what law enforcement agencies do
in our name.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  