-- AIG Mortgage Insurer Takes on FHA in Government Shutdown
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-10-07T20:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/aig-mortgage-insurer-takes-on-fha-in-government-shutdown.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s
mortgage insurer, whose biggest rival is a U.S. agency, is
wooing borrowers with the prospect that they’ll avoid delays
tied to the partial government shutdown.  AIG’s  United Guaranty  has sent a  message to clients 
highlighting the company’s willingness to accept paperwork that
had been prepared for the  Federal Housing Administration .
Mortgage insurance covers losses when homeowners default and
foreclosures fail to recoup costs.  “In light of the federal shutdown and the inability of FHA
to do business as usual, United Guaranty is reminding our
customers that we are a resource,” Jo Fleischer, a spokesman
for the unit of New York-based AIG, said in an e-mail today.
“We can underwrite any FHA submission with existing full
documentation, and typically get our customer a decision within
24 hours.”  AIG, MGIC Investment Corp. and  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  are
targeting share gains as the housing market recovers from the
deepest crash since the Great Depression. United Guaranty, led
by Chief Executive Officer Donna DeMaio, was the No. 2 private
mortgage insurer in the first half of this year, backing $27.3
billion of loans, and trailing Radian according to data compiled
by Inside Mortgage Finance. The FHA insured $134.8 billion.  Radian will also accept FHA forms and seeks to make
coverage decisions within 24 hours, said Emily Riley, a
spokeswoman for the Philadelphia-based company.  MGIC’s (MTG)  Michael
Zimmerman said the Milwaukee-based insurer is also prepared for
clients who sought FHA coverage.  ‘Some Confusion’  “If it’s fully documented and meets our requirements, we
will insure it,” Zimmerman said.  United Guaranty also said in its announcement last week
that, with FHA’s request of U.S. funds to subsidize  capital
requirements , “we understand there is some confusion about
FHA’s continued ability to do business as usual.”  AIG took a U.S. bailout that began in 2008 and swelled to
$182.3 billion. The company, which also sells property-casualty
coverage and  life insurance , repaid the aid last year.  The U.S. is in the second week of a partial shutdown of the
federal government amid disagreements between Democrats and
Republicans over spending. Furloughs of FHA workers could lead
to processing delays for some home loans, the Department of
Housing and Urban Development said in its contingency plan for a
shutdown.  ‘Limited Staff’  “FHA will have limited staff during a shutdown,”
according to the document. “The longer the shutdown, the more
serious the impact will be.” Melanie Roussell, a spokeswoman
for HUD, declined to comment.  The U.S. is reducing the FHA’s role, which expanded amid
the financial crisis. The FHA backed 41 percent of insured loans
in the second quarter of this year, down from 71 percent in
2009, after raising the fee it charges for the coverage. The
agency’s share was less than 20 percent from 2005 to 2007.  Private mortgage insurers have been easing underwriting
standards as  home prices   rise . The requirements have become more
similar to those of government-backed loan buyers  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac .  AIG fell 1.6 percent to $48.73 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York ,
paring its advance for the year to 38 percent. Radian dropped
1.4 percent and MGIC slipped 1.3 percent. Both have more than
doubled since Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  