-- FAA Recalls Airline Inspectors Put on Leave by Shutdown
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-10-08T21:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/airline-inspectors-being-recalled-from-u-s-furloughs.html
Aviation regulators in the U.S. will
begin recalling some airline and aircraft inspectors from
furloughs spurred by a partial government shutdown that has
entered its second week.  More than 800 Federal Aviation Administration workers will
return to their jobs this week, the agency said yesterday in a
statement. They had been deemed nonessential for safety and sent
home without pay when the shutdown began Oct. 1.  The agency’s aircraft registry will remain closed.  JetBlue
Airways Corp. (JBLU) , US Airways Group. and AMR Corp.’s  American
Airlines (AAMRQ)  said they haven’t been able to accept new planes as a
result, and aircraft manufacturers say the shutdown may block
the sale of at least 130 newly built planes for private owners
worth $1.5 billion by next week.  “The registry closing threatens our economic recovery and
our ability to provide good, high-paying jobs at a time when the
industry is making a comeback,” Pete Bunce, president of the
General Aviation Manufacturers Association, a Washington trade
group, said today.  Without the ability to obtain a title for a plane,
manufacturers and dealers can’t sell them and buyers can’t
obtain loans, the group said in its statement.  About three-quarters of the FAA employees returning to work
oversee major airline operations. Most of the others will keep
an eye on the “most critical” production of aircraft and
parts, according to the agency statement.  ‘Evaluating Risk’  “The FAA is constantly evaluating safety risk,” the
agency said. “As the government shutdown continues, the agency
will determine whether additional employees need to be recalled
to provide oversight of potential risk.”  All 3,000 of the FAA’s aviation-safety inspectors, who
oversee airlines, maintenance shops and aircraft manufacturers,
were placed on unpaid leave. All of them should be returned to
work, Mike Perrone, president of the Professional Aviation
Safety Specialists union, said in an e-mail statement.  “Sidelining aviation safety inspectors, who are crucial
employees, for even a day is unacceptable and exposes the
aviation system to unnecessary risk,” Perrone said.  Political Battle  Many U.S. government services have been shuttered for a
week and the country is 10 days away from running out of cash to
pay all of its debts.  Congressional Republicans  are insisting on
changing the 2010 Affordable Care Act, which requires most
Americans to have insurance or pay a penalty, before funding the
government while President  Barack Obama  refuses to discuss
policy conditions tied to ending the shutdown or raising the
ceiling on borrowing.  The FAA registry closing has blocked the delivery of planes
destined for airlines.  American Airlines  won’t receive an  Airbus
SAS (EAD)  A319 it expected tomorrow, spokeswoman  Andrea Huguely  said
in an e-mail.  It has stopped sales of used planes, Ed Bolen, president of
the National Business Aviation Association, a Washington-based
trade group, said in an interview. As many as 10,000 aircraft a
month may be grounded if registrations can’t be renewed, he
said. His group represents corporate flight departments and
airplane dealers.  “As long as the registry is closed, there is going to be a
significant impact,” Bolen said.  Controllers, Construction  Bunce, Bolen and other trade-group leaders sent
Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx a letter today urging him
to reopen the registry.  The FAA put 15,514 employees on leave Oct. 1, or about a
third of its workforce of about 46,000, according to a
Transportation Department plan for the shutdown.  The agency’s air-traffic controllers remained on the job.
Operations funded by the FAA’s Airport and Airway  Trust Fund ,
such as construction grants to airports, also were
uninterrupted. The trust fund earns revenue from taxes on
airline tickets and fuel instead of general funds.  In addition to inspectors, about 25 doctors and workers who
oversee drug and alcohol testing of commercial pilots, mechanics
and others, are being recalled, the agency said.  While safety inspectors were sent home, other members of
PASS who maintain the FAA’s navigation and air-traffic equipment
remained on the job, Kori Blalock Keller, a spokeswoman, said in
an interview.  Airline Oversight  All airlines do in-house inspections to ensure that
maintenance is performed and safety procedures are followed.  The potential for safety lapses is minimal in the early
days of a shutdown, Keller said. The risks that errors may occur
and be missed by a carrier increase as time passes without
government oversight, she said.  No maintenance work has been interrupted or postponed at
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  due to the absence of FAA inspectors,
said Brandy King, a spokeswoman for the Dallas-based carrier.
The return of the FAA workers “will benefit air carriers in
allowing for review and approval of operations specifications
and certain FAA-approved program revisions,” she said.  Some  Boeing Co. (BA)  aircraft deliveries have been delayed by
shortages of FAA inspectors and employees who register the
aircraft, John Dern, spokesman for the Chicago-based company,
said in a phone interview. About 200 engineers and inspectors
who sign off on newly built planes were among the FAA employees
returning to work.  ‘Tough Situation’  The National Air Traffic Controllers Association, a union
representing more than 15,000 controllers as well as FAA
engineers and support staff, called for an end to the shutdown
in a statement. About 2,800 union members remain furloughed and
those who are working aren’t being paid,  Doug Church , a
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “This is a tough situation that will only worsen as it
drags on,” Church said. “This shutdown is a mess of enormous
proportions and it must be stopped.”  The FAA is monitoring private-aircraft accidents during the
shutdown while not sending employees to crash scenes. If it
appears there is an “urgent high risk” identified because of a
crash, the agency said it will recall employees to investigate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  