-- Taiwan Insurers Have $10 Billion Warchest for Foreign Property
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   C i n d y   W a n g
-- 2013-10-07T03:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/taiwan-insurers-have-10-billion-warchest-for-foreign-property.html
Taiwan   insurers  have the financial
capacity to invest at least $10 billion in overseas properties
after the island’s government relaxed rules in April on real
estate investments abroad, according to an industry group.  Insurers including Cathay Life Insurance Co. have already
submitted plans to buy more than 10 overseas buildings for
approval by the island’s financial regulator, said Paul Hsu,
chairman of the Life Insurance Association of the  Republic of
China . Most of those deals include office buildings in major
Chinese cities such as  Shanghai  and Beijing, he said.  Taiwan allowed insurers seeking stable returns to invest in
real estate overseas after limiting them from buying locally to
curb commercial property prices.  Fubon Life Insurance Co. (2881) , a
unit of the island’s second-biggest financial company, said last
week it plans to buy as much as $3 billion of overseas
properties over the next four to five years.  “For the whole industry, the number can definitely be over
$10 billion,” Hsu, a former lawmaker with the ruling party
Kuomintang, said in an Oct. 4 interview. “We’re now trying to
build a base in some big Chinese cities before moving into the
second-tier ones there. The former provide good rental and
stability, while the latter would also give us potential  capital
appreciation .”  Insurers accounted for about 40 percent of all commercial
real estate transactions in Taiwan before the regulator in
November banned them from buying locally, according to CBRE
Group Inc. An index compiled by broker DTZ Holdings Plc shows
office prices in Taiwan rose to the highest since at least 2005
at the end of 2012.  Infrastructure Projects  The  Financial Supervisory Commission  recommended six cities
in April for insurers to buy properties. These include  New York ,
 London , Toronto,  Frankfurt , Shanghai and  Ho Chi Minh City .  Cities in Europe and the U.S. will be “difficult” for
Taiwan’s insurers because of regulatory restrictions and high
capital gain taxes, Hsu said.  In August, the government lifted some restrictions,
including a ban on buying of domestic commercial property by
insurers with financial irregularities. Fubon Life, Cathay Life
and Shin Kong Life Insurance Co. are among insurers that had
their ban on property investments lifted this year.  While parts of the restrictions were lifted, they are still
required to buy only real estate with an yield of more than
2.875 percent.  “If this minimum yield doesn’t get lowered, it’s
impossible to see any major investment by insurers into domestic
properties,” said Hsu, adding that the regulator is now
encouraging insurers to invest in public infrastructure
projects.  Real estate investment in Taiwan rose 13 percent in 2012 to
NT$302 billion ($10.3 billion), fueled by demand from insurers,
according to data compiled by CBRE. The figures will probably
drop to NT$250 billion this year because of falling transactions
in the first three quarters as a result of the ban on insurers,
CBRE said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  