-- Taiwan Dollar Rally Seen Ending on Intervention: Market Reversal
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-10-07T09:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/taiwan-dollar-rally-seen-ending-on-intervention-market-reversal.html
Trading patterns suggest the rally
that drove the  Taiwan dollar  to an eight-month high will end on
speculation that central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan will step
up intervention to support exporters.  The currency’s 0.7 percent advance since the  Federal
Reserve  unexpectedly maintained its bond-purchase program on
Sept. 18 pushed the 14-day relative strength index to 29 on Oct.
4, below the 30 threshold that typically signals a reversal,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Taiwan  dollar’s
commodity channel index stayed below minus 100 in the last four
trading days, which some technical analysts interpret as meaning
the U.S. currency was oversold.  Taiwan’s dollar strengthened against the greenback in each
of the last six weeks, the longest winning streak in a year, as
overseas investors  pumped  $5.4 billion into Taiwanese stocks.
September’s net purchases of $4.2 billion were the highest in
four years, according to exchange data. Policy makers will
“step in to maintain an orderly market” should irregular
factors such as large short-term capital flows lead to “excess
volatility,” the central bank said in a Sept. 26 statement.  “From a technical point of view, it’s reasonable to see
the Taiwan dollar’s appreciation ending,”  Koji Fukaya , chief
executive officer and currency strategist at FPG Securities Co.
in  Tokyo , said in a phone interview on Oct. 4. “The pace of
gains was quite fast and it’s possible to see intensifying
intervention. It may not reverse the trend, but at least it will
see some correction from the recent sharp strength.”  Daily Intervention  The island’s dollar declined today for the first time in a
week. It lost 0.1 percent to NT$29.536 versus the greenback,
after a 0.5 percent gain last week, Taipei Forex Inc. prices
show. The currency dropped 0.4 percent in the final 19 minutes
of trading today on suspected intervention by the central bank.  The monetary authority has sold the local dollar in the
run-up to the close on most days since March 2012, according to
traders who asked not to be identified. The central bank’s
stance on the  exchange rate  is unchanged from its Sept. 26
statement and the level is determined by market forces, Harry
Yen, deputy director-general of the central bank’s foreign
exchange department, said in an Oct. 4 phone interview.  Taiwan’s authority started on Oct. 4 inspecting major
currency-trading banks to warn against speculation, Taipei-based
Commercial Times reported today, citing unidentified traders.
Banks are told to use fund inflows for declared purposes such as
stock purchases, the report said.  Trade data today showed exports fell 7 percent from a year
earlier in September, compared with the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of a 1.2 percent slide. That was the first
decline since April. Reports last month showed export orders
rose less than forecast in August and  industrial production 
unexpectedly contracted.  HTC Loss  HTC Corp. (2498) , Taiwan’s biggest smartphone maker, reported on
Oct. 4 a third-quarter loss that exceeded analyst estimates as
its handsets lost market share to devices from Suwon, South
Korea-based Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc. of Cupertino,
 California .  South  Korea ’s central bank likely intervened on Oct. 4 as
the won strengthened beyond 1,070 per dollar for the first time
since January, according to Han Sung Min, a currency trader at
Busan Bank in  Seoul . Jung Ho Seok, the head of the foreign-exchange market team at the  Bank of Korea , declined to comment
on whether the bank bought U.S. currency that day.  The won strengthened 6.6 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in
the past three months, the best performance among Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. That compares with a 2.3
percent gain for Taiwan’s dollar.  ‘Minimize Volatility’  Taiwan’s central bank “wants to minimize volatility,”
Eric Hsing, a Taipei-based fixed-income trader at First
Securities Inc., said in an Oct. 4 interview. “If the Taiwan
dollar appreciates much more than the Korean won, the central
bank will act more aggressively.”  Taiwan’s dollar reached NT$29.29 versus the greenback on
Oct. 4, the highest level since January, as a U.S. budget
impasse forced a partial shutdown of the government in the
world’s biggest economy. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which
tracks the greenback against 10 major currencies, fell in each
of the last five weeks.  “Foreign institutional investment inflows have sustained
and with the U.S. government shut, the U.S. dollar has been
weaker, so there are forces pushing the Taiwan dollar up,”
Andrew Tsai, an economist at KGI Securities in Taipei, said in
an Oct. 4 interview. “Appreciation may not end so soon.”  Bollinger Band  The Taiwan dollar’s commodity channel index dropped to
minus 207 on Oct. 4, the least since Sept. 3, and stood at
negative 141 today, Bloomberg data show. The currency’s daily
trading range breached the lower end of its Bollinger band since
Aug. 30, indicating gains may be unsustainable. When this last
happened in May, the island’s dollar weakened 3.3 percent from a
May 9 high of NT$29.341 to a June 25 low of NT$30.355.  Bollinger bands, developed by  John Bollinger  in the 1980s,
are used by technical analysts to identify the turning point in
an asset’s trajectory. The limits represent two standard
deviations from the 20-day moving average, implying that the
likelihood of a currency moving outside the band is rare.  Technical analysis, popularized by Charles Dow, creator of
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  in 1896, is based on the theory
that a chart of the price of financial assets contains clues to
future movements.  The Taiwan dollar will weaken 1.5 percent to NT$30 against
the U.S. currency by the end of December, according to the
median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
currency’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
swings in the exchange rate used to price options, dropped 202
basis points, or 2.02 percentage points, to 4.04 percent from
this year’s peak of 6.06 percent reached on June 26.  “The authorities will intervene as of course they want to
avoid any damage to exports from the rising currency,”  Tsutomu Soma , the manager of the fixed-income business unit at Rakuten
Securities Inc. in Tokyo, said in an interview on Oct. 4. “From
a technical perspective, the currency is trading at a very
crucial stage” and appreciation may halt, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Justina Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  