-- Al Habtoor to Add Apartment Towers to Central Dubai Development
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-10-07T09:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/al-habtoor-to-add-apartment-towers-to-central-dubai-development.html
Al Habtoor Group LLC, the closely
held owner of hotels in Dubai, plans to add three towers to its
development on the city’s main Sheikh Zayed Road that will
include penthouses the company values at $245 million.  The Al Habtoor City development will include 1,460
apartments and three hotels with more than 1,600 hotel rooms,
the company said in statement distributed at the development
site today.  Hotel occupancy in Dubai has been among the highest in the
world this year at 78 percent, Philip Wooller,  Middle East  and
Africa director at STR Global said on Sept. 29. Residential
prices increased 21.7 percent in the second quarter, the fastest
pace in the world, a survey by Knight Frank LLP showed.  The additional towers boost the value of the Al Habtoor
City project to 11 billion dirhams ($3 billion,) the company
said. A total of 11 penthouses will be built. The two biggest
will have four floors and won’t be sold for less than 900
million dirhams, Chairman Khalaf al Habtoor said today at the
site.  The development on one million square feet will include a
French-style garden and an air conditioned tennis court. Al
Habtoor will finance the development with its own resources,
Khalaf al Habtoor said. “If some banks want to give us
competitive rates, we would welcome that,” he said.  Construction is likely to be completed by early 2016, the
Chairman said.  Al Habtoor’s joint venture with Leighton Holdings Ltd.,
 Australia ’s largest construction company, is building the hotels
in the Dubai project. The venture will be given priority for the
contract to build the residential part, but only if the price is
competitive, Khalaf al Habtoor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  