-- Alcatel-Lucent to Reduce 10,000 Jobs as Losses Mount
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-10-08T16:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/alcatel-lucent-said-to-plan-to-reduce-staff-by-10-000-worldwide.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  will eliminate
10,000 jobs as Chief Executive Officer  Michel Combes  accelerates
a 1 billion-euro ($1.4 billion) cost-cut plan to revive the
unprofitable French network-equipment maker.  The cuts, due by 2015, represent about 14 percent of the
workforce worldwide, based on the 72,000 employees the Paris-based company had as of December. About 4,100 jobs will be
reduced in  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa , 3,800 in  Asia  and
2,100 in the Americas, Alcatel-Lucent said today. Sites in the
French cities of Toulouse and Rennes will be shuttered.  Alcatel-Lucent is speeding up a turnaround bid after
thousands of earlier job cuts, restructuring and asset sales
failed to stem losses. Pressure on equipment prices and slower
investment from European carriers, along with competition from
China’s Huawei Technologies Co., are forcing Alcatel-Lucent and
rivals such as  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s network-gear unit to reduce staff.  “This is something Alcatel needed to do,” said Eric Beaudet, an analyst at Natixis Securities in Paris, who
recommends buying Alcatel-Lucent shares. “The magnitude of the
plan is big and shows the management’s resolve in rapidly
executing its turnaround.”  A slimmer organization, along with plans to sell 1 billion
euros of assets by 2015, could make Alcatel-Lucent a more
attractive target for an acquirer. Nokia, set to become a
manufacturer focusing on wireless networks after the sale of its
handset business, is weighing a linkup with Alcatel-Lucent,
people with knowledge of the matter said last month.  Asian Competition  Alcatel-Lucent  fell  4.1 percent to 2.77 euros in Paris. The
stock has more than doubled this year, though it is still down
97 percent since its peak in 2000.  Last November,  Bloomberg News  reported Alcatel-Lucent
needed to cut 10,000 jobs to catch up with more efficient rivals
and stop its cash pile from dwindling further.  Intensifying competition from Asian rivals Huawei and ZTE
Corp. has weighed on Alcatel-Lucent, which was formed in the
2006 merger of  France ’s Alcatel SA and American company Lucent
Technologies.  Former chiefs Pat Russo and Serge Tchuruk, who oversaw the
merger, and Combes’s predecessor Ben Verwaayen left behind an
unprofitable company with a high cost base. Plummeting sales of
phone equipment in Europe have added to Combes’s challenges, and
the company’s losses since its creation now exceed $10 billion.  Nokia Combination  By cutting jobs, Alcatel-Lucent is following in the
footsteps of Nokia’s network unit, recently renamed Nokia
Solutions and Networks, which in late 2011 started a savings
program to eliminate 17,000 positions, or about 23 percent of
its total. The Finnish company has since cut more jobs, in
excess of 20,000 during the past two years, and had 50,500
employees at the end of June.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s
biggest maker of networking equipment, said in August it’s
cutting about 5 percent of its workforce.  Based on 2012 reported revenue, Alcatel-Lucent had sales
per employee of $257,000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. NSN had $313,500 and Ericsson AB  $305,000. (ERICB)   Nokia is considering options including a combination with
Alcatel-Lucent’s wireless-gear unit, said one of the people last
month. Nokia and Alcatel-Lucent together would be a stronger
challenger to Ericsson, the biggest maker of mobile-phone
networks, and Huawei. Alcatel-Lucent has contracts with  Verizon
Wireless  and AT&T Inc. in the U.S., a market where Nokia trails
competition. No talks are under way, said the people.  Bell Labs  About a quarter of Alcatel-Lucent’s employees are in the
U.S., where the company runs Nobel-Prize winning research
facility Bell Labs. A third of its workforce is in Europe and a
third in the Asia-Pacific region, according to its website.  In France, where companies have faced a tough stance on
firings from President  Francois Hollande ’s Socialist government,
Alcatel-Lucent plans to cut 900 out of about 9,500 positions.  Union CDFT, whose representatives are among those meeting
with Combes today to hear his detailed plan, said in a release
it will protest the CEO’s cuts and appeal to the government to
stop the firings.  Alcatel-Lucent is “burning through cash” and “the French
government considers that its mere existence is in danger,”
Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said during parliamentary
debate today.  Restructuring at Alcatel-Lucent is necessary and the
government will support the company through its turnaround
efforts, France’s Foreign Trade Minister Nicole Bricq said today
in an interview with Radio Classique.  In  Italy , the company plans to cut 586 out of about 2,000
jobs, according to the Cgil union.  In addition to seeking asset sales and cost reductions,
Alcatel-Lucent is in talks with potential research partners
about becoming shareholders. Qualcomm Inc. already agreed to buy
a minority stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  