-- Amazon Wins Ruling for $600 Million CIA Cloud Contract
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-10-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/amazon-wins-ruling-for-600-million-cia-cloud-contract.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  defeated
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s effort to reopen bidding
for a $600 million Central Intelligence Agency cloud computing
contract.  Judge Thomas Wheeler of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in
 Washington  granted Amazon’s request for judgment on the
administrative record following a hearing yesterday, according
to a minute order posted on the court’s electronic docket. A
written opinion will follow, according to the order.  Amazon sued in July after the Government Accountability
Office, the agency that makes recommendations on challenges to
contracts, sided with IBM and agreed that the CIA had failed to
properly evaluate prices and had waived a contract requirement
only for Seattle-based Amazon.  “We are disappointed with the ruling from the U.S. Court
of Federal Claims, reversing the GAO’s recommendation to reopen
the competition and correct flaws in the bidding process,”
Armonk, New York-based IBM said in an e-mailed statement. The
company plans to appeal this decision,’’ according to the
statement.  “This court decision seems especially inappropriate in
light of the current times, since IBM’s bid was superior in many
ways, including being substantially more cost-effective,” the
company said.  Both the complaint and Amazon’s request for a ruling in its
favor were filed under seal, as was the requests by the  Justice
Department  and IBM for a ruling in their favor.  Mary Osako, an Amazon spokeswoman, and representatives of
the Justice Department didn’t immediately return calls after
regular business hours yesterday seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Amazon Web Services Inc. v. U.S., 13-cv-00506,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in federal court in  Los Angeles  at  epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  