-- Apollo Said to Discuss Raising Fund Limit With Investors
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-10-07T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/apollo-said-to-discuss-raising-fund-limit-with-investors.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , is considering seeking
approval to raise the limit on its next flagship fund after
investors expressed interest in putting in as much as $20
billion, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The firm has talked with investors about getting permission
to increase the $15 billion limit on Apollo Investment Fund VIII
LP, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
deliberations are private. The New York-based firm may leave the
maximum size of the fund unchanged, they said.  Apollo is on track to amass the largest buyout fund since
Blackstone Group LP raised $21.7 billion in 2007 for the
industry’s biggest pool. Boosted by a wave of profitable sales,
Apollo is one of the few firms that is raising a larger fund
than before the 2007-2009 financial crisis, which triggered a
credit squeeze and hampered deal-making.  Even at $15 billion, Apollo will have slightly exceeded the
size of its prior fund, which gathered $14.7 billion in 2008.
Investors in private-equity funds, called limited partners,
typically prefer firms to limit their offerings at a certain
size as they fear that performance might suffer if their funds
become too large.  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo at Rubenstein
Associates, declined to comment on the fundraising.  LyondellBasell Profits  The performance of the firm’s 2008 fund has been buoyed by
Apollo’s most profitable investment, Rotterdam-based
 LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , whose debt the firm started
accumulating in 2008. The world’s largest manufacturer of
polypropylene filed for bankruptcy in 2009, and as the company
recovered, Apollo swapped its debt for equity and bought more
shares. Apollo began selling its stake in September of last year
and had generated $5.5 billion on top of $1.5 billion received
in dividends, on a $2 billion investment as of June.  During the  second quarter , Apollo exited three companies,
sold shares in five more and took three public, making $7
billion in proceeds and distributing $5.7 billion to investors.  The firm continued to hand back money in the third quarter
through sales of stakes in LyondellBasell, real estate brokerage
Realogy Holdings Corp. and packaging company Berry Plastics
Group Inc. The firm’s 2008 fund was generating a 28 percent net
internal rate of return as of June 30, according to the firm’s
earnings report for the second quarter.  Apollo last year set a $12 billion target for the new fund.
That differs from the limit, known as a hard cap, which is the
maximum amount a fund can raise if demand exceeds the target.
While Apollo has not completed raising the fund, there are
investors who have committed money who need to approve a change
to the size of the pool.  The firm told prospective investors in August their stakes
in the fund might get scaled back if they wait too long to
commit, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  