-- Apollo’s $2.5 Billion Cooper Offer in Jeopardy: Corporate India
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-10-08T12:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/apollo-s-2-5-billion-cooper-offer-in-jeopardy-corporate-india.html
Apollo Tyres Ltd. (APTY) ’s $2.5 billion
offer to buy  Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. (CTB)  is nearing collapse after
labor disputes in the U.S. and China led the Indian suitor to
seek a lower price.  Apollo is seeking to reduce its $35-a-share offer to as low
as $26 and is playing delay tactics to attempt to back out of
the agreement, which expires Dec. 31, according to an Oct. 4
complaint from Cooper to the Delaware Chancery Court. Gurgaon,
India-based Apollo didn’t respond to specific queries seeking
comment on Cooper’s allegations, though it said in an Oct. 6
statement on the lawsuit that “the issue now is by how much”
the offer should be lowered.  Since the June announcement of what would have been  India ’s
biggest acquisition of a North American company, the deal’s
faced opposition from workers in China and the U.S., as well as
from Cooper’s Chinese partner. Talks between Apollo and Cooper
have now soured, with each company publicly saying the other is
failing to honor the purchase agreement.  “This deal didn’t seem like it was very well planned,”
said  Manish Sonthalia , a  fund manager  at Motilal Oswal Asset
Management Co. in Mumbai. “Unless there is resolution from both
sides, the deal is as good as dead.”  Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG and Greater Pacific
Capital advised Apollo on the acquisition agreement, while Bank
of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch advised Cooper.  Yesterday, Cooper asked a Delaware judge to fast-track its
dispute and to hold a trial by Nov. 7.  Deal Complications  Apollo  shares  rose 1.2 percent to 70.55 rupees, the highest
close since Sept. 20. Cooper fell 13 percent yesterday, the most
in more than two years, to $25.72. That’s a contrast to when the
deal was announced on June 12, when Cooper soared 41 percent and
Apollo shares plunged a record 25 percent the following day.  Cooper, which has a Chinese venture with Chengshan Group
Co., soon saw the deal hit complications.  Within weeks of the deal announcement, the venture’s
workers, backed by Chengshan, went on strike in opposition of
the Apollo purchase. The Findlay, Ohio-based tiremaker said in
the lawsuit that workers at the Chinese factory -- Chengshan
says it’s Cooper’s biggest -- are still refusing to make Cooper
branded tires and denying the company access to financial
information at the plant.  Separately in August, the  United Steelworkers  --
representing Cooper’s workers in Findlay and Texarkana,  Arkansas 
-- filed grievances over Cooper’s sale. In September, the
arbitrator barred Cooper from selling its Texarkana and Findlay
plants until the union reaches a new collective bargaining
agreement with Apollo.  Penalty Fee  Apollo has since drawn out negotiations with the U.S. union
to prevent the Cooper purchase from completing, according to
Cooper’s complaint, a  copy  of which was filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Apollo, which agreed to a
$112.5 million reverse break-up fee, can walk away from the deal
should it not be completed by Dec. 31, according to Cooper.  On Sept. 27, Apollo’s vice chairman indicated to Cooper’s
chief executive officer that the deal would not close at $35 a
share, according to Cooper. Apollo subsequently asked Cooper to
accept a $2.50-a-share reduction in the offer, followed by an
Oct. 3 proposal indicating Apollo would seek a cut of as much as
$8 to $9 a share, according to Cooper’s complaint. Cooper said
it rejected Apollo’s proposal.  On Oct. 4, the day Apollo’s purchase was originally
scheduled for completion, Cooper filed a complaint with the
Delaware court to expedite the completion of the deal, according
to Cooper.  ‘Inexplicable’ Complaint  Apollo responded to the complaint by issuing an Oct. 6
statement saying Cooper was being unreasonable in rushing the
deal and failing to provide assurances about its  China  venture.  “Cooper’s decision to file a complaint at this time is
inexplicable and can only be seen as a diversionary smokescreen
or an unfortunate acknowledgment that Cooper will be unable to
meet its obligations necessary to complete the transaction,”
Apollo said. On China, “Cooper has misrepresented its
management and control of this asset to Apollo and to its own
shareholders.”  Apollo said Cooper acknowledged the need to cut the
original offer -- a claim Cooper denied. Cooper said it’s
working to resolve its issues in China and that Apollo should
expedite a resolution with the U.S. union workers.  “These developments highlight the increasing discord
between the two parties,” Ashvin Shetty and Ritu Modi, analysts
at Ambit Capital Pvt. in Mumbai, wrote in an Oct. 7 note. “We
continue to have a negative view on the acquisition.”  Shetty said that the deal falling apart would be positive
for Apollo. The deal was over-leveraged and one bad year of
operations could seriously hinder the ability of the combined
entity to pay the interest and principal for the debt it was
taking on, Shetty wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  