-- Apple Said to Expand ITunes Radio to U.K. Before Pandora
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-10-08T20:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/apple-said-to-expand-itunes-radio-to-u-k-before-pandora.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  plans to expand iTunes
Radio to English-speaking countries outside the U.S. by early
2014, beating industry leader  Pandora Media Inc. (P)  to the U.K. and
Canada, people with knowledge of the situation said.  ITunes Radio is also set to start early next year in
Australia and New Zealand, where Pandora already operates, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the plans
aren’t public. Nordic countries are also being targeted in the
same time frame, the people said.  Apple is moving faster than Pandora because it forged
agreements for international rights with  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal
Music Group and other record companies, said one of the people.
Pandora, which doesn’t have such deals, relies on rights granted
by government entities, limiting service to the U.S., Australia
and New Zealand.  Trudy Muller , a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to comment
yesterday.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, fell 1.4 percent to
$480.94 at the close in New York. The shares have declined 9.6
percent this year. Oakland, California-based Pandora declined
7.8 percent to $24.26, the biggest drop in two weeks, after
almost tripling in 2013.  Pandora, Apple and rival offerings from Spotify Ltd. and
Rdio Inc. let customers listen to a mix of songs based on their
musical tastes.  Top Challenger  Apple last month instantly became the biggest challenger to
Pandora when it released iTunes Radio with the new iOS 7 mobile
software that comes with every new iPhone and iPad. More than 11
million listeners sampled the service in the five days after it
became available.  With the expansion, Apple is mimicking its rollout of the
iTunes music store more than a decade ago, starting out in the
U.S. and then moving to other countries, said one person.  Eddy Cue, the Apple senior vice president in charge of
iTunes, told the Associated Press last week that the company
wants to eventually bring iTunes Radio to more than 100
countries, including the U.K., without elaborating on timing.
The Apple-focused news website 9to5Mac.com reported that the
iPhone maker is seeking to hire programmers for the product in
Canada.  Like Pandora, Apple is wooing advertisers for its service.
ITunes Radio has reached deals for campaigns with McDonald’s
Corp.,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)   Pandora has no imminent plans to expand to a new country,
founder  Tim Westergren  said at a Sept. 24 investor conference.  “Our hope is just that over time, as the benefits of our
service become more and more obvious and apparent, that artists
in particular will agitate and help propel this adoption in
other countries,” Westergren said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  