-- Argentina’s Fernandez to Have Surgery to Remove Blood From Skull
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-07T18:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/argentine-politics-disrupted-by-fernandez-health-disclosure.html
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  will undergo surgery tomorrow to remove an
accumulation of blood in her skull following a blow eight weeks
ago, according to a statement issued by the hospital where she
is being treated.  Fernandez, 60, entered the Favaloro Foundation clinic in
Buenos Aires today, two days after her medical team had advised
her to rest for a month. Yesterday, the president complained of
tingling in her left arm which prompted doctors to recommend the
operation, according the statement.  Vice-President Amado Boudou, who replaced Fernandez in late
2011, when she was misdiagnosed with thyroid cancer, has taken
over her duties.  Fernandez, who is half way through her second four-year
term, has seen her popularity tumble since winning re-election
in 2011 as she faces growing discontent over rising crime,
currency controls and estimated 25 percent annual inflation. The
60-year-old leader suffered a head trauma, for which initial
tests had been negative, on Aug. 12, the day after primaries for
Oct. 27 mid-term elections, presidential spokesman Alfredo
Scoccimarro said in a statement on Oct. 5.  “It’s going to change the political dynamic,” Fabian Perechodnik, an analyst with Poliarquia Consultores, said by
phone from Buenos Aires before the need for surgery was
announced. “If she’s not there for a month, exactly when there
are elections, it’s a significant development.”  Political adversaries campaigning for the congressional
elections, including Fernandez’s former cabinet chief Sergio Massa and the mayor of Buenos Aires city Mauricio Macri, wished
her well in messages posted to Twitter before the need for
surgery was announced.  ‘Simple Procedure’  Fernandez’s surgery is considered low risk as it doesn’t
involve contact with the brain, Pedro Lylyk, a brain surgeon at
the Eneri clinic in Buenos Aires, who isn’t treating Fernandez,
said in a telephone interview.  “It’s a simple procedure,” Lylyk said. “She’ll be in
intensive care for 24 to 48 hours and will be hospitalized for
another three to four days followed by a month of recovery
time.”  In the August primaries, Fernandez’s ruling alliance
secured just 26 percent of the nationwide vote, and her
candidate in Buenos Aires province, the country’s largest by
population, lost to Massa by five percentage points.  Since then, Argentine bonds and the Merval stock exchange
have rallied on speculation a new government may take power in
2015 with more market-friendly policies. Fernandez, who is
banned from a third term by the constitution, last year seized
oil producer YPF SA from Spain’s Repsol SA and has restricted
foreign exchange purchases and underreported inflation, causing
investment to fall.  ‘Post-Election Transition’  “The news will likely increase speculation of a post-election transition period in which Fernandez will not enjoy the
same kind of unrestricted power over domestic policies,” Diego Ferro, co-chief investment officer at Greylock Capital
Management, said in an e-mail. “It will not likely change the
outcome of the election.”  Even assuming a full recovery, this is positive for
Argentine debt, Ferro said.  While Argentina’s average  borrowing costs  of 12.78 percent
are the highest in  emerging markets , the average yield on its
dollar bonds has fallen 22 basis points since the primary
elections compared with an 11 basis point rise for developing
nations, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  Adds ‘Uncertainty’  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine debt
instead of U.S. Treasuries fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1,001 basis points at 3:05 p.m. in Buenos
Aires.  Fernandez’s health may create sympathy among Argentines and
reverse her slide in opinion polls, according to Michael Shifter, President of the Inter-American Dialogue. Fernandez’s
support rose after her husband and predecessor Nestor Kirchner
died of a heart attack in 2010, he said.  “It’s conceivable that she might get a slight bounce and a
bump in the polls,” Shifter said in a telephone interview from
 Washington . “It does at the same time add to uncertainty about
the overall situation in the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  