-- Markit Group Said to Avoid U.S. Antitrust Claims as EU Proceeds
-- B y   K e r i   G e i g e r ,   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-10-07T06:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/markit-group-said-to-avoid-u-s-antitrust-claims-as-eu-proceeds.html
Markit Group Ltd., the data provider
controlled by Wall Street firms including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , probably won’t face U.S. sanctions
for impeding competition in the $22 trillion credit-derivatives
market, according to two people with direct knowledge of the
four-year investigation.  The Justice Department’s antitrust division isn’t planning
to press London-based Markit, led by Chief Executive Officer
Lance Uggla, to alter business practices because investigators’
concerns are being addressed by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, the
people said. The European Commission is still preparing
penalties in a parallel probe, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the reviews aren’t public.  Markit provides customers with derivative and bond data and
sells licenses to companies seeking to offer clients its credit-swap indexes, the most actively traded contracts. Authorities
have been examining whether banks controlling the firm colluded
to withhold that information to block the development of
exchange trading, a shift that could have crimped their profits
from handling client transactions. Dodd-Frank is opening the
swaps market to competition and making it easier for new users
to participate.  “Dodd-Frank has made a significant difference, and it’s
therefore understandable that this is not so much on the front
burner for the  Department of Justice  as it once was,” said
 Darrell Duffie , a finance professor at  Stanford University  in
 California , who researches the structure of over-the-counter
derivatives markets. “The grip of the major dealers on the
over-the-counter market is dramatically loosened by Dodd-Frank.”  Civil Inquiry  The Justice Department examined whether banks conspired to
use Markit to maintain their dominance in credit-default swaps
and prevent new players from gaining a foothold, said the
people. The probe was civil, according to one of the people.
That means if the government were to pursue a case, the goal
would be to end anticompetitive practices rather than imposing
criminal penalties.  Dodd-Frank and Commodity Futures Trading Commission rules
created under the law have weakened Markit’s ability to limit
which companies can obtain its licenses to trade the contracts
or offer clearing services, Duffie said.  The  Justice Department  hasn’t ended its probe, is
monitoring  Europe ’s push for sanctions and could reverse its
position on whether U.S. intervention is needed, the people
said.  Adora Jenkins, a Justice Department spokeswoman, and Alex Paidas at Markit declined to comment on the Justice Department’s
plans. Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Markit in selling information to the financial-services
industry.  Europe’s Warning  The European Commission signaled in a July  press release 
that it may bring claims against targets of its probe. The
competition authority said it sent Markit, 13 banks and the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association a statement of
objections, giving them a chance to dispute allegations before
the commission issues a ruling or imposes penalties.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. also are among
banks with the largest stakes in Markit, according to a list of
voting shares in a 2012 filing with the U.K.’s Companies House.  Exchanges Thwarted  Spokesmen for the banks, all of which were named in the
commission’s July news release, and for the ISDA, which sets
standards for credit-default swaps, declined to comment. Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust
chief, also declined to discuss the inquiries. Goldman Sachs,
Citigroup and Morgan Stanley, all based in  New York , have said
in regulatory filings this year that they are cooperating with
U.S. investigators.  The European Commission has  said  it examined difficulties
faced by  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,
two of the world’s largest derivatives clearinghouses, as they
sought to start a central clearing platform for instruments
including credit-default swaps from 2006 to 2009. Credit
derivatives with a notional value of more than $22 trillion were
outstanding as of the week ended Sept. 27, according to the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a data repository
for the contracts. The value outstanding of credit-default swaps
surged almost 100-fold from 2000 to 2007 to $62 trillion, ISDA
estimates show.  Threatening Fees  That market has been a boon to  Wall Street . JPMorgan,
Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Bank of America, the top four U.S.
derivative-dealer banks, generated $11.2 billion in revenue in
the first half of 2013 from trading both cash and derivative
contracts according to the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency. Similar revenue figures for non-U.S. banks active in
the global market aren’t available.  The exchanges’ plan threatened to reduce fees that Wall
Street firms reaped for arranging over-the-counter trades with
their customers. To thwart the shift, banks instructed Markit
and the ISDA to deny the exchanges licenses needed to obtain
data and index benchmarks, Europe’s competition authority wrote
in the July announcement.  “The commission takes the preliminary view that the banks
acted collectively to shut out exchanges from the market because
they feared that exchange trading would have reduced their
revenues from acting as intermediaries in the OTC market,” the
authority wrote.  Different Approaches  The Justice Department investigation began in 2009 after
clearinghouses owned by CME Group and Atlanta-based
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. negotiated with Markit to obtain
licenses to guarantee trades based on its credit-swap indexes,
people familiar with the situation said at the time. The
potentially anticompetitive practices included requiring
clearinghouses to buy bundled services and restricting which
trades can be cleared, the people said then.  The divergence in how the European Union and the U.S. are 
ending the inquiries spotlights different approaches to 
policing anti-competitive behavior on either side of the 
Atlantic.  “Europe tends to be more aggressive on antitrust issues
than the U.S. due to the more business-friendly free-market
approach in the U.S.,” said Michael A. Carrier, a professor at
Rutgers School of Law in  New Jersey . Almunia’s office “has
shown a willingness to really push big companies and get more
out of them on antitrust violations.”  ‘Uphill Battle’  Once European authorities issue a statement of objections,
“the target typically faces an uphill battle,” said Edward B. Schwartz, a partner at law firm Steptoe & Johnson LLP in
 Washington , who specializes in antitrust cases. He didn’t speak
specifically about the Markit probe.  In the U.S., the Justice Department staff generally “knows
upfront if the conduct is criminal or civil,” Schwartz said.
“Criminal conduct includes hard-core antitrust violations such
as price-fixing.”  While such criminal cases can lead to fines in the U.S.,
civil complaints usually seek court injunctions forcing
companies to alter practices.  Dodd-Frank, passed in response to the financial crisis,
includes provisions designed to move swaps that helped fuel the
2008 credit crisis from largely unregulated trading off
exchanges to more transparent systems including swap-execution
facilities, or SEFs, overseen by the CFTC and Securities and
Exchange Commission. As the rules took shape, the Justice
Department opted to hold back on bringing a case, according to
the people with knowledge of the investigation.  ‘Markets Changing’  Bloomberg LP created a SEF that is among new systems to
have been granted a license to offer trading of Markit credit-swap indexes, Markit said in an Oct. 3 statement.  “Derivatives markets are changing and we remain focused on
helping market participants migrate from bilateral trading to an
electronic, multilateral market,” Armins Rusis, managing
director and global head of information at Markit, said in the
statement.  Markit also is changing how it offers licenses on its
products. When the only way to buy or sell a swap was from a
dealer bank, the firms bought licenses from Markit to trade
credit-default swaps indexes with their clients, serving as the
de facto venues, according to people familiar with the market.  Earlier this year, Markit began offering trading venues
such as exchanges or swap-execution facilities an option to
obtain a license by paying the company $10 per index trade,
according to a copy of the terms reviewed by  Bloomberg News .
That includes dealer-to-customer trades, as well as transactions
between two banks or two hedge funds, according to the term
sheet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keri Geiger in New York at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  