-- Marks & Spencer Slides Amid Fresh Sales Concerns: London Mover
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-10-07T16:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/marks-spencer-slides-amid-fresh-sales-concerns-london-mover.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , Britain’s
largest clothing retailer, fell the most in almost two months
after Credit Suisse reduced sales and profitability estimates
and as a report showed U.K. fashion sales declined in September.  The stock slid 2.8 percent, the most since Aug. 15, to
480.30 pence. It was the  third-biggest drop  in the U.K.
benchmark  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)   The quarter ended last month was slower than expected for
Marks & Spencer’s non-food division, Credit Suisse analyst  Simon Irwin  said in a note today. He estimates that same-store sales
fell 1.5 percent, compared with a previous projection of 0.5
percent growth. Irwin also estimates the gross profit margin
narrowed by 40 basis points because of “higher markdown over
the summer and an earlier mid-season sale.”  A drop in the general-merchandise division’s quarterly
same-store sales would be the ninth in succession, ratcheting up
the pressure on Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland . The
retailer, which is pinning its hopes on a revived autumn-winter
range that came into stores on July 25, is due to report revenue
for the period when it announces first-half earnings Nov. 5.  “While the long-awaited autumn-winter ranges show some
signs of improvement, we do not believe they are sufficient to
transform like-for-like sales or margins over the next year,”
Irwin wrote in a note. He rates the stock underperform.  September was “a challenging month” for British clothing
retailers, with sales falling 2.1 percent compared with the same
month in 2012, according to BDO LLP’s High Street Sales Tracker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  