-- Armed Services Counsel to Covington: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-10-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/armed-services-counsel-to-covington-business-of-law.html
The U.S. House Armed Services
Committee’s former general counsel, Roger Zakheim, is moving in
November to Covington & Burling LLP, where he’ll join the global
public policy and government affairs and defense, homeland and
national security practices.  “He is widely respected across the defense industry and
both branches of government for his in-depth knowledge of the
budget, public policy and legal issues facing the sector,”
Timothy Hester, chairman of the firm’s management committee,
said in a statement.  In his job at the House Armed Services Committee, Zakheim
managed the passage of legislation authorizing the Defense
Department’s $600 billion budget. He also oversaw committee
investigations and oversight hearings, the firm said.  Covington has more than 800 lawyers at offices in Beijing,
Brussels,  London , New York,  San Diego ,  San Francisco ,  Seoul ,
 Shanghai ,  California ’s Silicon Valley and  Washington .  DLA Piper Chooses Jones Day Lawyer to Head China IP Practice  DLA Piper LLP added Horace Lam and four associates to its
intellectual property and technology group in Beijing. Lam, who
will be a partner and the head of the  China  intellectual
property group, was previously at  Jones Day , also in Beijing.  Lam practices both contentious and non-contentious IP work
and has represented multinational companies on IP issues in
China. His practice also includes licensing, trademarks,
copyrights and patents, the firm said.  “Horace is recognized as a commercially minded, well-established lawyer in the China IP marketplace, and his
appointment will bolster our  Asia  IP offering enabling us to
further develop and expand our IP capabilities for our clients
in Asia,  Europe  and the U.S.,” Richard Wageman, DLA Piper’s
Asia group head for intellectual property, said in a statement.  DLA Piper has about 1,500 lawyers in more than 20 offices
worldwide.  Edwards Wildman Adds IP Partner in London From Bird & Bird  Sarah Pearce joined Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP’s London
office as a partner in the intellectual property practice. She
was previously in the international commercial group of Bird &
Bird LLP’s Paris office.  Her practice focuses on  information technology ,
communications and outsourcing projects, and she regularly
advises clients on complex information technology transactions
and procurement, the firm said.  Pearce advises on general commercial matters and has
experience developing contractual structures. She has also
represented clients on e-commerce projects and has significant
experience in commercial and regulatory media, outsourcing, data
protection and other matters, the firm said.  Edwards Wildman has 600 lawyers in the U.S., Europe and
Asia.  Hogan Lovells Adds Environmental Litigation Team  Hogan Lovells LLP announced that Justin Savage, a former
litigator at the U.S. Justice Department, will join the firm’s
Washington office as a partner.  Savage spent almost a decade working in the agency’s
environment and natural resources division, where he was senior
counsel.  “Justin’s arrival greatly strengthens our capability to
secure and sustain litigation work for clients,” Warren Gorrell, the firm’s co-chief executive officer, said in a
statement. “Given his 15 years of successful litigation and
environmental experience, Justin is a highly valuable asset.”  Savage’s practice will focus on complex civil litigation
and environmental matters including enforcement actions, citizen
suits and regulatory challenges.  Hogan Lovells  has 2,500 lawyers at more than 40 offices in
the U.S., Europe,  Latin America , the  Middle East  and Asia.  Sheppard Mullin Adds Accessibility Litigator in Orange County  Gregory F. Hurley joined the Orange County, California,
office of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP as a partner
in the business trial practice group.  Hurley was previously at Greenberg Traurig LLP, where he
helped open that firm’s Orange County outpost and co-led the
Americans with Disabilities Act, accessibility, building and
life-safety codes practice and managed the office’s litigation
group for the past 10 years, the firm said.  “Greg is one of the top attorneys in the country
specializing in accessibility law and we are excited to welcome
him to the firm,” Guy N. Halgren, chairman of Sheppard Mullin,
said in a statement. “His extensive experience in ADA and Fair
Housing Act matters bolsters our capabilities and allows us to
better service client needs,”  Hurley’s trial experience includes representing California
in the largest class action certified against the state,
involving more than 10 million claimants and 4,000 miles (6,400
kilometers) of California Department of Transportation
pedestrian routes and 90 park-and-ride facilities, the firm
said. He also defended a national class action against 80 golf
courses owned and operated by Marriott.  Sheppard Mullin has 630 attorneys in 15 offices located in
the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Proskauer Hires REIT Lawyer Michael Choate as Partner  Proskauer Rose LLP announced that Michael J. Choate  joined
the firm’s real estate capital markets group as a partner in
 Chicago . Choate and another lawyer joining Proskauer were
previously at Shefsky & Froelich.  Choate advises publicly traded and non-listed real estate
investment trusts in equity and debt offerings, mergers and
acquisitions, and internalization transactions. He counsels
publicly traded entities on matters of corporate governance,
 securities law , compliance, and proxy and tender-offer
situations.  Proskauer has lawyers in the Americas, Europe and Asia.  Belkin Burden Brings in Lissner as Real Estate Partner  Belkin Burden Wenig & Goldman LLP, a real estate law firm,
said Allison R. Lissner joined as a partner in the real estate
transactional department in New York.  Lissner was previously a partner in the Manhattan office of
Cole, Schotz, Meisel, Forman & Leonard PA.  She will focus primarily on commercial leasing,
acquisitions, sales and financing. Her practice also includes
handling the acquisition, development and disposition of vacant
land, office buildings, apartment buildings, shopping centers
and other properties, the firm said. She counsels clients on due
diligence, financing and compliance.  Belkin Burden has about 50 lawyers in  New York .  General Counsel  Drinker Biddle Partner Appointed General Counsel at Environ  Environ, an environmental, health, safety and
sustainability consulting firm, appointed Samuel Mason, a former
Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP partner, as its first general
counsel.  Mason will handle Environ’s legal needs and counsel its
board and global management committee. He will be based in the
firm’s Philadelphia office.  While at Drinker Biddle, Mason was Environ’s primary
external corporate counsel for more than 10 years.  Firm News  Littler Mendelson Names Millman as New York Office Head  Littler Mendelson PC named Bruce Millman as office managing
shareholder in New York, beginning Jan. 1.  Millman counsels private- and public-sector employers on
business and personnel strategies. He succeeds Craig Benson, who
will return full-time to his employment litigation practice.  “Craig has done an excellent job in leading one of the
firm’s largest offices, and we thank him for his service,” Tom Bender and Jeremy Roth, co-managing directors of Littler, said
in a statement. “We are excited to have Bruce assume the OMS
role. His leadership qualities, combined with his more than 35
years of legal experience, will undeniably benefit the office,
the firm and our clients.”  Millman focuses on business restructuring, wage-and-hour
and New York employment law, as well as labor-management
relations, discrimination and harassment, employment policies,
performance management, and termination and litigation
strategies.  Littler Mendelson has more than 980 attorneys at 57 offices
in the Americas.  News  Private Detectives’ Clients Face U.K. Data Protection Probe  Law firms and insurance companies may be among former
clients of private detectives who used illegal methods to
collect information that face a probe by the U.K.’s data-protection watchdog.  The Information Commissioner’s Office will examine 19
clients of four private investigators who were jailed last year
for using illegal data-gathering methods, such as phone hacking,
according to Keith Vaz, the office of Parliament’s Home Affairs
Committee. Vaz said Christopher Graham, the information
commissioner, will give the committee more details on Oct. 8.  “There are 19 clients that will now be investigated with
another 11 awaiting further information,” Vaz said in an e-mailed statement. “We will seek assurances that the onward
investigation will be conducted in the most efficient,
comprehensive and speedy manner.”  The U.K.’s Serious Organised Crime Agency gave the
committee a list of clients, asking it not to publish the names
for fear of prejudicing future investigations. The list included
22 law firms, as well as 10 insurance companies, an  oil company 
and eight companies in financial services.  Out of 98 names on the list, eight were investigated in the
crime agency’s probe of hacking into mobile-phone accounts and
blagging, or the use of deception to obtain private details, Vaz
said. There’s no case against 24 and another 24 are based
outside the U.K., he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  