-- Marriott Plans to Transfer Stock Listing to Nasdaq
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a   a n d   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-10-07T20:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/marriott-planning-to-transfer-stock-listing-to-nasdaq-from-nyse.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
U.S.’s largest publicly traded hotel chain, is moving to the
 Nasdaq  Stock Market from the  New York  Stock Exchange.  The shares will be listed on Nasdaq on Oct. 21 and keep the
MAR ticker symbol, the company said today in a  statement . Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. is the second-biggest American equity exchange
operator.  “This will provide us with cost-effective visibility, as
well as efficient access to a portfolio of tools and
opportunities to reach investors,” Carl Berquist, Marriott’s
executive vice president and chief financial officer, said in
the statement.  Tom Marder, a spokesman for Marriott, said the switch “was
a cost consideration,” and had no further comment beyond the
official statement.  One of the attractions of Nasdaq to a company such as
Marriott is the exchange operator’s digital billboard in New
York City’s Times Square, which is used to advertise listed
companies, said Bruce Aust, executive vice president in Nasdaq’s
corporate client group.  “Any consumer company is going to see the value of our
tower in Times Square, where 1.5 million people walk through
each day,” he said in a phone interview.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  moved its stock listing to the NYSE from
Nasdaq in July, the biggest company ever to jump between the
exchanges. Oracle’s departure followed several high-profile wins
for Nasdaq, including moves from NYSE by  Texas Instruments
Inc. (TXN) ’s in 2011 and Kraft Foods Inc. in 2012.  “It’s been our pleasure to serve the company and its
shareholders,”  Rich Adamonis , a NYSE spokesman, said by
telephone.  The Nasdaq Stock Market grew its business in the 1990s with
the boom in initial public offerings of technology companies and
has faced criticisms in the past two years for mishandling the
initial public offering of Facebook in May 2012 and suffering a
three-hour shutdown in August.  Marriott shares fell 1.5 percent to $41.96 at 4 p.m. in New
York. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. declined 1.9 percent to $32.28.  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , the operator of the NYSE, slipped 0.5 percent to
$43.96.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  