-- Asian Stocks Drop as Investors Weigh U.S. Debt Limit
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-10-07T10:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/asian-stocks-little-changed-as-telcos-rise-utilities-decline.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index extending last week’s drop, as U.S. lawmakers
wrangled over the debt limit and partial government shutdown.  Blumont Group Ltd. and Asiasons Capital Ltd. each fell by a
record on resuming trading after Singapore Exchange Ltd. imposed
restrictions on investors in the stocks. Sun Hung Kai Properties
Ltd. declined 2.6 percent on a report the developer offered to
sell units at a Hong Kong residential project at a discount.
Sharp Corp. sank 8.2 percent, falling the most on the regional
equity benchmark, after last month saying it may price a share
sale as early as today.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.8 percent to 137.95 as
of 7:45 p.m. in  Tokyo , with all but one of its 10 industry
groups dropping. The gauge lost 1.2 percent last week, the first
weekly drop in more than a month, as the partial U.S. government
shutdown stoked concern lawmakers won’t be able to agree on
raising the nation’s $16.7 trillion borrowing limit this month.  “The U.S. situation is clearly abnormal and the
uncertainty doesn’t make things easier for investors in risk
assets,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , a senior strategist at Tokyo-based Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co., which oversees about
11.2 trillion yen ($115 billion) in assets. “If the U.S.
defaults and misses paying its bills even just for a few days,
the market will turn chaotic.”  U.S. Speaker  John Boehner  said yesterday the House can’t
pass an increase to the debt ceiling without packaging it with
other provisions -- a nonstarter for President  Barack Obama ,
whose health-care law has been the target of defunding efforts
by Republicans.  Regional Gauges  Japan ’s  Topix index  fell 1.4 percent, retreating for a
seventh day to extend the longest losing streak since July 2012.
 South Korea ’s Kospi index lost 0.1 percent.  New Zealand ’s NZX 50
Index slid 0.1 percent. In  Australia , where many businesses are
closed for Labour Day, the S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.9 percent on
trading volume about half the 30-day average.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  slipped 0.7 percent.
Singapore’s Straits Times Index slid less than 0.1 percent and
 Taiwan ’s Taiex index lost 0.4 percent. Financial markets in
 China  are closed for a holiday today.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped 0.9
percent today. The gauge dropped for a second week last week as
the first partial government shutdown in 17 years began.  Default Risk  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said Congress needs to pass
a debt-ceiling increase by Oct. 17 or the U.S. will risk
defaulting on its payments. Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President  John Williams  estimated a two-week
government halt would shave 0.25 percentage point off fourth-quarter economic growth.  The shutdown delayed the release of the Labor Department’s
monthly payrolls report, which was due Oct. 4.  “Markets need to be aware that the impasse on  Capitol Hill 
is far from being resolved,” Evan Lucas, Melbourne-based market
strategist at IG Ltd. said in a note today. “The shutdown
stalemate continues to ebb and flow and is disruptive.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index  traded  at 13.3 times estimated
earnings today, compared with 15.2 for the S&P 500 and 14 for
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Blumont and Asiasons resumed trading after the commodity
investors were suspended Oct. 4 as their shares plunged.
 Singapore ’s bourse is prohibiting selling the companies’ stock
unless investors hold an equal quantity of equity and settle the
transactions in cash. Blumont had soared more than 1,000 percent
this year through September, prompting the SGX to investigate.  Blumont Plunges  Blumont today slumped 85 percent to 13 Singapore cents,
extending a 56 percent decline on Oct. 4. The plunge also
prompted the company to scrap a deal to buy Australia’s Cokal
Ltd. for S$146 million. Asiasons, which last month bought a
stake in U.S.-based oil and gas producer Black Elk Energy
Offshore Operations LLC, sank 86 percent to 15 Singapore cents,
widening a 61 percent plunge on Oct. 4.  Sun Hung Kai lost 2.6 percent to HK$102.40 after the  Hong
Kong  Economic Journal reported it offered to sell some units at
a residential project at about 30 percent discount, the biggest
price cut since the city’s latest rule on new-flat sales became
effective.  Sharp slumped 8.2 percent to 291 yen. The stock, which has
fallen 20 percent over the six-day period, fell the  most  on the
1,002-member MSCI Asia Pacific measure today. The loss-making TV
manufacturer said Sept. 18 it may price shares as early as today
to fund capital expenditure. The company said after Japan’s
markets closed that it would offer shares at 279 yen each to
raise as much as 136.5 billion yen.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., the owner of the crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant, sank 7.6 percent to 488
yen, leading a decline among utilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  