-- Athletics Hit Three Home Runs in 6-3 AL Playoff Defeat of Tigers
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-10-07T21:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/athletics-hit-three-home-runs-in-6-3-al-playoff-defeat-of-tigers.html
Josh Reddick, Brandon Moss and Seth Smith hit home runs as the  Oakland Athletics  won 6-3 at the
Detroit Tigers today to take a two-games-to-one lead in their
best-of-five American League division playoff series.  The Athletics can advance to the AL Championship Series
with a win in Game 4 tomorrow in Detroit.  After the teams combined to score a total of six runs while
splitting the first two games of the series in Oakland, they
scored nine runs in a three-inning span today at Comerica Park
in Detroit.  Oakland opened the scoring on an error in the third inning.
Reddick hit a solo home run and Coco Crisp added a sacrifice fly
in the fourth to give the A’s a 3-0 lead.  The Tigers responded with three runs in their half of the
fourth inning to tie the game.  Victor Martinez  had a run-scoring
double and Jhonny Peralta added a two-run single.  Oakland came back with three runs in the fifth, on a solo
home run by Moss and a two-run shot by Smith, both off Tigers
starter Anibal Sanchez.  Moss, who struck out in his three other at-bats today, now
has nine strikeouts in the series.  “I made contact,” Moss said in an on-field interview.
“It’s just one of those things, I strike out a lot. You got to
go up and be who you are, and finally I didn’t miss one.”  There are three more Major League Baseball playoff games
today.  The host Pittsburgh Pirates are trying to wrap up their
series against the  St. Louis Cardinals  in the National League,
followed by the  Boston Red Sox  going for a sweep of their AL
series at the Tampa Bay Rays. Tonight, the  Los Angeles Dodgers 
try to finish off their NL series at home against the Atlanta
Braves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  