-- Bank of America Intern Erhardt Died of Epilepsy, Court Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-10-07T15:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/bank-of-america-intern-erhardt-died-of-epilepsy-court-says.html
Moritz Erhardt, the 21-year-old
former  Bank of America Corp.  intern, died of epilepsy, a British
coroner’s court said after a post-mortem examination.  The  London  coroner’s court will hold an inquest on Nov. 22
into the death of Erhardt, who was on a seven-week pre-graduate
program in London, a spokesman for the court said.  The death on Aug. 15. was treated as non-suspicious by the
Metropolitan Police. Erhardt was found unconscious at  Claredale
House , a student residential facility in East London. He was
pronounced dead at the scene after being treated by paramedics.  Erhardt had been an exchange student at the  University of
Michigan ’s Stephen M. Ross School of Business and attended WHU -
- Otto Beisheim School of Management in Vallendar,  Germany ,
according to his biography page on social-network site
seelio.com.  In addition to  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America’s investment-banking division, Erhardt also said he had
work experience at KPMG Consulting, Morgan Stanley and Deutsche
Bank AG’s corporate finance division.  John McIvor, a spokesman for Bank of America in London,
declined to comment via telephone today.  ‘Bright Future’  Erhardt went to high school at Faust-Gymnasium in Staufen,
Germany, where he excelled in math and tennis, according to the
biography page. His hobbies included sports and politics,
according to the profile.  Bank of America “convened a formal senior working group to
consider the facts as they become known, to review all aspects
of this tragedy,” following the death, according to an August
statement from the bank.  Erhardt “was popular among his peers and was a highly
diligent intern at our company with a bright future,” the bank
said.  Epilepsy is a condition that affects the brain and causes
repeated seizures, also known as fits, according to the U.K.’s
National Health Service website, which said almost one in 100
people had the condition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  