-- Barrick Board Should Be Two-Thirds Independent, Fund Says
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-10-07T21:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/barrick-board-should-be-two-thirds-independent-fund-says.html
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  said
at least two-thirds of  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ’s board should be made
independent as the world’s largest gold company continues its
hunt for new directors.  “We want to see a refreshing of the board of directors and
we want to see the compensation plan change to be more in line
with other companies in  Canada ,” said Wayne Kozun, senior vice
president of public equities at the Toronto-based fund.  Kozun is the first  money manager  at a major institutional
investor in Barrick to publicly give details about proposed
changes at the gold-producer’s  board , which has come under
increasing scrutiny this year after a slump in gold prices and
billions of dollars of writedowns.  Canada’s biggest pension funds want new independent board
members at Barrick and say the miner should consider replacing
directors who have been there longer than 20 years and are close
to Co-Chairman and founder  Peter Munk , two investors briefed on
the matter said Sept. 18. Pressure to reform the board is
focused on long-serving directors including former Canadian
Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, according to the two investors.  Barrick will add new independent directors and strengthen
its executive pay policies following investor criticism, the
Toronto-based company said Sept. 17.  “Progress on these initiatives is expected by the end of
the year,”  Andy Lloyd , a Barrick spokesman, said in an e-mail
today. “Barrick takes matters of governance seriously and
feedback from our shareholders is important to us.”  ‘Best Practice’  Currently seven out of 13 Barrick directors are
independent, according to its March proxy statement.  “We’d like to see obviously at least two-thirds
independent board members, but in best-practice situations only
the chief executive officer is an insider of the company,”
Kozum said.  Ontario Teachers’ holds a 0.3 percent stake in Barrick,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund is one of
eight pension managers that signed a statement in April
criticizing compensation at Barrick as excessive after the miner
awarded Co-Chairman  John Thornton  an $11.9 million signing
bonus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  