-- Bats Expands Listings Business to Include Europe
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-10-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/bats-expands-listings-business-to-include-europe.html
Bats Global Markets Inc. plans to
expand its European stock market, one of the region’s biggest,
by opening a listings business for exchange-traded funds from
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s iShares division.  The trading platform will next month list the  iShares MSCI
Emerging Markets (IEEM)  UCITS ETF and iShares MSCI World Minimum
Volatility UCITS ETF, Bats Chi-X  Europe  Chief Executive Officer
Mark Hemsley said during an interview. BlackRock’s iShares is
the world’s largest provider of exchange-traded funds.  “We’ve been looking at the ETF business in Europe for some
time,” Hemsley said in the interview. “Given we are a pan-European business we are trying to create a pan-European product
and attract flow and liquidity into the security from across
Europe. We will be competing aggressively on listing fees,” he
said, adding that Bats will publish prices soon.  Bats already runs a listings business in the U.S., serving
as the  home market  for 20 iShares ETFs. Its attempt to grow that
division by offering company listings failed in March 2012, when
Lenexa, Kansas-based Bats couldn’t get its own shares trading
following the company’s initial public offering.  The exchange owner’s attempt to build out the European unit
comes as it seeks to expand its U.S. market share by merging
with Direct Edge Holdings LLC. Bats handled about 21 percent of
all  stock trading  in Europe during the past five days, more than
any other exchange operator except London Stock Exchange Group
Plc, according to  data  compiled by Bats.  Guy Simpkin, head of business development in Europe, will
lead the exchange’s efforts to win listings in the region.  Bats plans to encourage ETF trading by rewarding traders
who facilitate transactions by providing quotes, he said.
European trading of ETFs lags behind the U.S., providing room
for growth, Simpkin said.  ETF transactions in Europe are valued at $2.6 billion a day
on average, or 0.75 percent of assets within the securities, he
said, citing data from ETFGI LLP. In the U.S., $54 billion of
daily trading represents 3.9 percent of assets, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  