-- China Reopens Beijing Roads, Airports After Smog Shutdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-07T07:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/beijing-smog-closes-highways-as-travelers-return-after-holiday.html
China  started reopening roads and
airports in Beijing and surrounding areas that were shut by
 heavy smog , allowing millions of travelers to return from a
week-long holiday.  Air quality index readings for half of Beijing’s 12 urban
areas fell below 200, the level dividing medium and heavy
pollution, as of 12 p.m. today, according to data on the  website 
of the Beijing Municipal Environmental Monitoring Center.  “Beijing will see light rain tonight, which will make it
easier for air pollutants to dissipate,” Beijing Meteorological
Bureau said today in its official microblog. The bureau lifted a
yellow alert on smog at 8:50 a.m., predicting that visibility
will improve.  The closures yesterday of six expressways and disruption at
Beijing Capital International Airport underscore the severity of
pollution that has become the top cause of social unrest in
China. Premier  Li Keqiang  has pledged a cleanup that includes
cutting coal consumption, shutting steel plants and controlling
the number of cars.  An estimated 430 million people were expected to travel
during the holiday that ends today, according to the China
Tourism Academy.  “Air pollution will be an additional factor for holiday
traveling that needs to be considered,” said Chen Yifeng, a
Shanghai-based accountant who didn’t travel during the holiday
to avoid crowds. “I won’t go to heavily polluted places like
China’s north region as it’s either hazardous to your health or
causes trouble when traveling.”  Roads Closed  Police closed six expressways linking the capital city to
Shanghai, Tianjin and Harbin yesterday, and 47 flights at
Beijing Capital International Airport were affected.  Some parts of the expressways linking Beijing to Shanghai
and Tianjin were still closed as of 9:40 a.m. because of haze,
according to Beijing Capital Highway Development Group Co.,
which operates the highways.  Flights have resumed at Beijing Capital International
Airport, an official said, declining to be identified citing
company policy.  Air China Ltd. (753) , the nation’s biggest carrier by
market value, will put on additional services after the smog
affected at least 47 flights yesterday, an official said.  The State Council, China’s cabinet, said last month it will
cut coal consumption, close steel plants and control the number
of cars on its roads to gradually eliminate heavily polluted
days in as soon as a decade.  Control Pollution  China will build a nationwide network within three to five
years to monitor the impact of air pollution on health, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported on Oct. 5, citing the
Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention.  A total of 43 monitoring spots will be set up in 16
provinces and municipalities frequently engulfed by smog to
facilitate research on air pollutants in different regions, the
impact on the health of vulnerable groups and the study of
related diseases, the report said.  Separately, Typhoon Fitow, which killed two people in the
eastern city of Wenzhou, led to the cancellation of 22 flights
in Hangzhou today and the suspension of at least 59 bullet
trains in Zhejiang province, Xinhua reported. The storm made
landfall in the southeast  Fujian province , according to Xinhua.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  