-- Billionaire Sy Sees Opportunity in Reclaiming Manila Land
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-10-07T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/billionaire-sy-sees-manila-reclaimed-land-growth-southeast-asia.html
Philippine billionaire Henry Sy plans
to spend 54.5 billion pesos ($1.26 billion) to reclaim land in
 Manila  Bay as large plots for development become scarce in the
capital.  SM Land Inc., which Sy is shaping to become the nation’s
largest builder, has offered to reclaim 300 hectares (741 acres)
from the sea, parent  SM Investments Corp. (SM)  said. SM Investments
is Sy’s publicly listed holding company that owns banks, malls
and grocery stores.  “You can never escape Manila,” SM Investments Vice
Chairwoman Teresita Sy-Coson said in an Oct. 2 interview. “You
have to go where the consumers are.”  Manila and its neighboring cities, known as Metropolitan
Manila and the country’s most densely populated region, account
for 36 percent of the $250 billion Philippine economy. A per-capita income that’s three times the national average is drawing
migrants from the provinces, boosting demand for housing and
services. Sy-Coson said the spending power of Manila residents
makes up for faster growth in some other parts of the country.  The Manila region’s economy expanded 7.3 percent in 2012,
trailing the 9.3 percent increase in Central Visayas and 7.4
percent growth in the Davao region on Mindanao Island, both in
the south of the country, according to the National Statistical
Coordination Board. Metropolitan Manila’s per-capita income of
183,747 pesos compares with the 65,904-peso national average.  More Demand  “Metro Manila will always be full of opportunities,” said
Richard Laneda, an analyst at Manila-based  COL Financial Group
Inc. (COL)  “It’s got a good location and a large market. Portions can
get saturated, but the region will never run out of demand.”  The 246.5-square-mile (638-square-kilometer) Manila region
was home to at least 11.86 million people or 13 percent of the
nation’s population in 2010, according to the statistics agency.  The Philippine economy expanded 7.5 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, matching  China ’s growth and the
fastest pace in Southeast Asia in the period. The government
targets growth of 6 percent to 7 percent this year, accelerating
to 6.5 percent to 7.5 percent in 2014.  The nation’s debt was raised one level to investment grade
by Moody’s Investors Service on Oct. 3. The ratings assessor
cited “robust economic performance,” fiscal and debt
consolidation, political stability and improved governance in
giving its Baa3 rating with a positive outlook.  Large Properties  SM Land  is pursuing the reclamation project because Manila
doesn’t have a supply of single properties of that scale, Sy-Coson said.  Based on the estimated cost to reclaim the land from the
sea, the project indicates a price of 18,167 pesos per square
meter (10.76 square foot) for the 300 hectares. The company’s
share of the reclaimed site will not exceed 49 percent,
according to SM Land and government filings. The rest will be
owned by the city of Pasay, where the area is being reclaimed.  An 8,300 square-meter plot in Fort Bonifacio had an offer
of 280,723 pesos a square meter, according to a report in Manila
Standard Today on Sept. 23. The site is in a commercial business
district 7 kilometers (4.4 miles) from  Mall of Asia  complex,
Sy’s single biggest property in the capital.  “Manila doesn’t have a supply of land this big anymore and
it will be very expensive to come up with something similar in
scale,” said Julius Guevara, a Manila-based associate director
at Colliers International. “The big parcels are already in the
hands of major developers and are not likely for sale.”  Most Valuable  The 60-hectare Mall of Asia complex, Sy’s most valuable
property based on price per square meter, is home to offices, a
convention center, a sports arena and the nation’s second-biggest shopping center.  Property valuations around the Mall of Asia complex range
from 100,000 pesos a square meter to 120,000 pesos a square
meter and have a “big potential for future price appreciation”
because of the projects being built in the area, Colliers’
Guevara said.  Sy, 88, has a net worth of $13.7 billion, making him the
richest man in the  Philippines , according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index.  The Mall of Asia complex is adjacent to  Pagcor City , a
gaming and entertainment district the government has opened to
private investors to get a bigger share of Asia’s casino
revenue.  Sy’s venture with  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  owns one
of four casino licenses that the government awarded to build the
entertainment hub. The other licenses are held by Philippine
port magnate Enrique Razon, pachinko-maker Kazuo Okada, and a
venture of  Genting Hong Kong Ltd. (GENHK)  and Philippine billionaire
Andrew Tan.  Pagcor City’s first casino, Razon’s $1.2 billion Solaire,
opened in March and will be followed by Sy and Melco’s $1.4
billion complex in the second half of 2014. The remaining two
casino resorts are scheduled to open between 2015 and 2017.  The city government of Pasay, which has jurisdiction over
the area of the proposed reclamation, has set a Nov. 4 deadline
for other companies to match SM Land’s offer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  