-- BlackRock’s Fink Is Captivated by Pimco Favorite Mexico
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-10-07T13:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/blackrock-s-fink-is-captivated-by-pimco-favorite-mexico.html
For Laurence D. Fink, who oversees
$3.86 trillion as  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s chief executive officer,
there’s no better place to invest than Mexico.  “Mexico is at the beginning of a real revolution,” Fink
said Oct. 3 at an event hosted by the University of  California ,
Los Angeles, in Beverly Hills. “You’re going to have a
tremendous opportunity.”  While American politicians are deadlocked in a budget
standoff that has forced a partial U.S. government shutdown,
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto has garnered support from
the biggest opposition party for his proposal in August to end
the state oil company’s 75-year monopoly. Fink said the plan
would turn Mexico into one of the world’s biggest energy
producers and unleash an investment boom -- making the nation
his favorite international destination to put money.  Fink’s bullishness on Mexico is echoed by overseas debt
investors including  Bill Gross ’s Pacific Investment Management
Co., the world’s biggest bond fund manager. Their purchases of
Mexico’s peso-denominated debt soared 75 percent to $4 billion
last month as foreign holdings reached a record. The notes
returned 4.9 percent in dollars in the past month, exceeding the
4.18 percent average gain for emerging markets, while Mexico’s
10-year bond yields fell by the most in 15 months.  Fueling Interest  BlackRock’s Emerging Market Local Debt Fund has 9.9 percent
of net assets in Mexican securities, more than any other
country, according to a second-quarter  fact sheet . [bn:PRSN=16409052]   Melissa Garville [], a spokeswoman for BlackRock, declined to
comment on the fund’s current holdings in Mexico.  The energy proposal is fueling investor interest in Mexico
as the U.S. Federal Reserve maintains its unprecedented stimulus
that’s propped up emerging-market assets with cheap money.  Bond market gains have also been supported by the Mexican
central bank’s reduction of  interest rates  in September for the
second time this year to propel the economy.  Concern earlier this year that the Fed might taper its
bond-buying program triggered the biggest developing-nation rout
in four years.  Gross wrote  in a monthly report in August that
Mexico’s push for structural reforms will help the country
“weather the storm.”  Pimco’s $250 billion Total Return Fund is the biggest
holder of the country’s 2024 bonds, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Mexico also has the highest allocation among countries in
Pimco’s $12.7 billion Emerging Local Bond Fund, at 17.1 percent,
according to its August monthly  report .  Less Debt  Gross, who was interviewed alongside Fink at the UCLA event
last week, said Mexico has a lower debt burden than the U.S. and
more competitive wages. Also, the peso may be undervalued when
compared with the U.S. dollar or Brazilian real, he said, based
on the prices of McDonald’s Corp. Big Mac hamburgers in the
different countries.  The most-recent Economist Big Mac Index reading for Mexico
is $2.86,  compared  with $4.56 in the U.S. and $5.28 in  Brazil ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pena Nieto’s energy bill aims to attract investment from
companies such as Exxon Mobil Corp. and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  by
changing Mexico’s constitution to give privately run companies
the chance to pump  oil  in the country for the first time since
1938. The proposal is coupled with measures to reduce the
government’s dependence on tax revenue from the state oil
company, Petroleos Mexicanos.  Reform Approval  “It looks like it’s going to be approved,” Fink said.
Pemex’s ability to spend on drilling projects was constrained
because all of its profits were going to the federal government,
he said.  BlackRock said in April it hired Gerardo Rodriguez, a
former undersecretary of finance and public credit in Mexico, to
help support its  emerging-markets  business and product-development strategy.  Mexico’s economic overhauls should pass by Dec. 15, Gabriel Lozano, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in an Oct. 4
report.  Claudio Robertson, the head of fixed-income trading at
Investment Placement Group, which oversees about $500 million in
emerging-market debt, said the energy proposal could get diluted
in Congress.  “Markets have high expectations,” he said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “There are several reforms and
initiatives being discussed, and a lot of political capital is
being spent to push them through. Having a very watered down
reform is a real risk.”  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of Treasuries climbed two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 209 basis points at 9:48 a.m. in New
York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Diversified index. The peso depreciated 0.3 percent to 13.124
per U.S. dollar.  Mexico ’s economic growth may accelerate to 3.8 percent next
year from an estimated 1.9 percent in 2013, based on the median
estimate of 30 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Pena Nieto’s energy proposal is “certainly a favorable
turn of events,” Gross said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  