-- Blumont’s Decline With Two Rivals Wipes Off $6.9 Billion
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-10-07T09:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/blumont-asiasons-post-record-drop-after-curbs-singapore-mover.html
Blumont Group Ltd. (BLUM) ,  Asiasons (ACAP)  Capital
Ltd. and LionGold Corp. shares fell by a record as restrictions
were imposed on their stocks, erasing S$8.6 billion ($6.9
billion) from their market value over two days.  Blumont, which invests in minerals and energy, slumped 85
percent to 13  Singapore  cents at the close in Singapore,
extending a 56 percent decline on Oct. 4. The two-day, 90
percent drop shaved S$4.9 billion from its market
capitalization. The plunge also prompted the company to scrap a
deal to buy Australia’s  Cokal Ltd. (CKA)  for S$146 million.  The exchange said yesterday shares of the three companies
have been declared designated securities, prohibiting investors
to sell them unless they hold the same quantity of stock. Buyers
must make cash payments for the transactions, it added.  “SGX is telling investors to be mindful of the risks
involved in investing in these volatile stocks,” said Desmond
Chua, an analyst at CMC Markets in Singapore, referring to the
 Singapore Exchange . “This would help to ensure proper corporate
governance in particular companies.”  Blumont will hold a press conference at 2 p.m. Singapore
time tomorrow.  Trading of the three commodity investors were suspended by
the exchange on Oct. 4 to safeguard market interest.  “SGX will continue to monitor the trading of these
designated securities and review the circumstances in due course
to end the declaration,” the exchange said in the statement
yesterday.  Asiasons, LionGold  Asiasons, which last month bought a stake in U.S.-based oil
and gas producer Black Elk Energy Offshore Operations LLC,
tumbled 86 percent to 15 Singapore cents, adding to a 61 percent
plunge on Oct. 4. It lost S$2.5 billion in market value over the
two days.  LionGold (LIGO) , which slumped 42 percent on Oct. 4, dropped 71
percent to 25 Singapore cents as it resumed trading this
afternoon. The decline over the two days erased S$1.2 billion in
market capitalization.  The company said today it’s in advanced negotiations for a
possible acquisition of Minera IRL Ltd., a gold explorer in
 Peru , Argentina and  Chile . No formal deal has been signed, it
said. LionGold said last month it was in talks to buy as many as
three gold mining assets.  While existing regulations in Singapore are sufficient for
company disclosures, regulators may need to introduce circuit
breakers to automatically suspend trading of shares that have
moved sharply higher or lower, David Gerald, president of
Securities Investors Association of Singapore, said Oct. 4  “A circuit breaker mechanism will certainly help to give
early warning to investors,” Gerald said in an e-mailed
response to queries.  Regulators around the world have stepped up oversight of
 capital markets  after the global financial crisis in 2008. The
MAS established a 13-member council in 2010 with a goal to boost
corporate governance standards and investor confidence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  