-- Bocom Bullish as Growth to Boost Stocks: China Overnight
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-07T20:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/bocom-bullish-as-growth-to-boost-stocks-china-overnight.html
China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  will
probably extend its three-month rally as accelerating growth
lifts valuations from the lowest level among major markets, said
Bocom International Holdings Co. and Tisco Asset Management Co.  A gauge of services industries in the world’s second-biggest economy rose to a six-month high in September while
Premier Li Keqiang said China can meet its main economic targets
in a speech on Sept. 30, the last trading day before local
markets shut for the National Day break. The Bloomberg China-US
Equity Index of the most-active Chinese shares in the U.S. has
since gained 2.1 percent, while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  added 1.1 percent in Hong Kong.  “Data flow on China during the holiday period has been
positive,” Hao Hong, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Bocom
International, a subsidiary of China’s fifth-biggest bank by
market value, said in an e-mail interview yesterday. “Valuation
is still cheap, especially relative to developed markets, and
fundamentals are improving.”  The Shanghai Composite climbed 3.6 percent last month,
extending its gain from a four-year low in June to 12 percent.
The gauge is valued at 8.7 times analysts’ earnings estimates
for the next 12 months, the lowest level among the world’s 15
biggest markets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a multiple of 10 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index and 14 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  U.S. Shutdown  The Bloomberg index tracking major Chinese stocks trading
in the U.S. slipped 1.1 percent to 103.56 in New York, declining
for the first time in five days, as the U.S. entered the second
week of a partial government shutdown and a potential lapse in
U.S. borrowing authority loomed 10 days away.  “I don’t think the U.S. will default,” Jeff Papp, a
senior analyst at Oberweis Asset Management Inc., said in an e-mailed reply from Lisle,  Illinois  yesterday. “Now, most in the
China ADR space have had awesome gains this year. So if you want
to lock in profits, that’s fine at these levels.” Oberweis’s
$165 million China Opportunities Fund has gained 45 percent this
year, beating 96 percent of its peers tracked by Bloomberg.  The Bloomberg China-US gauge closed at 104.76 on Oct. 4,
the highest since May 2012, as Twitter Inc.’s planned initial
public offering boosted social-media companies. American
depositary receipts of  Renren Inc., (RENN)  a social networking website,
has jumped 22 percent since Sept. 30, while Sina Corp., which
owns a microblogging service, has rallied 8.6 percent.  Twitter, which has more than 200 million monthly users,
made public its S-1 prospectus on Oct. 3, saying it’s seeking to
raise $1 billion in an IPO. The documents suggested a valuation
of $12.8 billion.  ‘Positive Reaction’  The Hang Seng China AH Premium Index, which measures the
price of mainland-traded Chinese shares versus Hong Kong
counterparts, closed at 99.99 yesterday. That compares with the
five-year average of 112.15.  “Most Chinese stocks should have a positive reaction on
the good data,” Saharat Chudsuwan, a Bangkok-based senior vice
president at Tisco Asset Management, which has about $4.7
billion of assets, said by phone on Oct. 4. “The domestic
shares should catch up.”  China ’s  services index  rose to 55.4 in September from 53.9
in August, the Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics and
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said on Oct. 3. A number
more than 50 indicates an expansion.  Gains in non-manufacturing industries help Li shift the
nation away from dependence on exports and investment, a
strategy that may get mapped out at a Communist Party meeting in
November. China’s economy is stabilizing in a good trend and the
country has the confidence and ability to realize its main
economic targets, Li said at a National Day celebration
reception, China National Radio reported.  ‘Self-Sufficient’  “The strength in the services really bodes well for the
story of shifting from an export to domestic consumption-driven
economy,” Jay Jacobs, a research analyst at Global X Funds, a
New York-based exchange-traded fund firm that manages $2.3
billion, said by phone Oct. 4. “It really shows the economy is
becoming more well-rounded, more self-sufficient.”  Chinese shares fell in Hong Kong yesterday, sending the
Hang Seng China gauge down 0.9 percent.  In the U.S.,  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , China’s largest
online travel agency, tumbled 4 percent to $55.90, the biggest
drop since June. Software developer  Qihoo 360 Technology Ltd. (QIHU) 
sank 3.6 percent to a three-week low of $83.07.  Shanda Games
Ltd. (GAME) , an online game operator, surged 12 percent to a seven-week
high of $4.64.  The iShares China Large-Cap ETF, the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slumped 1.1 percent to $37.60.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 0.9 percent as
lawmakers remained deadlocked over extending the nation’s debt
limit to avoid a default.  ‘Dangerously Low’  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said Congress needs to pass
a debt-ceiling increase by Oct. 17 or the U.S. will be
“dangerously low” on cash and risk defaulting on its payments.
The $12 trillion of outstanding government debt is 23 times the
$517 billion Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. owed when it filed
for bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008. The Shanghai Composite tumbled
25 percent in October 2008.  Chinese companies will begin releasing third-quarter
results this month, with  China Molybdenum Co. (3993) , a mining company
based in Henan Province, among the first scheduled to report on
Oct. 14. Shanghai Composite profits will probably increase 31
percent during the next 12 months, versus 13 percent for the
MSCI emerging markets index, according to analyst projections
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have been recommending clients to buy China,” Steve Wang, the Hong-Kong based chief China economist at Reorient
Group Ltd., said in an Oct. 4 e-mail. “The coming phase of
Chinese equities will offer significantly better performance.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  