-- Box Office: Daniel Craig Starts Blockbuster Pinter Run
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-10-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/box-office-daniel-craig-starts-blockbuster-pinter-run.html
Big stars did better than “ Big
Fish”  last week, as Daniel “the name’s Bond” Craig sold out
in his return to Broadway and the season’s latest new musical
opened to mostly tough reviews.  The revival of Harold Pinter’s “Betrayal,” with Craig,
his wife,  Rachel Weisz , and Rafe Spall, did $1.1 million in its
first seven previews, according to the trade association the
Broadway League. A few orchestra seats remain for performances
this month, most priced at $386.25 to $436.25, according to
Telecharge.com.  Jim Byk, a spokesman for the show, said the sales set a
record for the Ethel Barrymore Theatre, topping the final week
of the 2012 revival of “Death of a Salesman” (which like
“Betrayal”  Mike Nichols  directed). Byk declined to comment
about advance sale or prospects for extending beyond the
announced closing of Jan. 5.  “Big Fish,” the Susan Stroman-directed musical about a
traveling salesman who tells fanciful stories, sold $644,000,
about half of its potential, as it gave away tickets to critics,
investors and others in theater amid its opening.  The show received a number of positive notices, including
from Bloomberg, which called it “enchanting.” But negative
reviews in the  New York  daily newspapers will present a
challenge for the producers going forward.  “We got glowing reviews from many sources,” the lead
producer, Dan Jinks, said in a statement about the $14 million
musical.  Thanks in part to several strong reviews, “The Glass
Menagerie,” with Zachary Quinto and Cherry Jones, had its best
week to date, up 25 percent to $642,000. The critically unloved
“Romeo and Juliet” sank 19 percent to its worst week,
$367,000.  “ Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark ” gained for the first time
in two months, though not by much. It rose 5 percent to
$655,000.  Muse highlights include  movies  and an  interview  with
Margaret Atwood.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 