-- BP Well Dumped 4.2 Million Barrels Into Gulf, U.S. Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-10-07T13:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/bp-well-dumped-4-2-million-barrels-into-gulf-u-s-says.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s doomed Macondo well dumped
4.2 million barrels of oil into the  Gulf of Mexico  in 2010, a
lawyer for the U.S. told a judge who is assessing the size of
the spill and how well the company reacted to the disaster.  The U.S. contends 5 million barrels of oil were released
from the well, while agreeing with BP that 810,000 barrels were
captured by a siphoning device at the wellhead before they could
 spill  into the sea.  “The question for you, your honor, is not how much oil was
collected but how much was not,” Steven O’Rourke, a lawyer for
the  Justice Department , told U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in
New Orleans today in the second phase of the trial over the
largest offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history.  Barbier is already weighing whether the London-based
company’s actions in causing the April 20, 2010, blowout and
subsequent spill reached the level of gross negligence, which
would lead to higher fines and punitive damages. His decision on
the size of the spill may mean billions of dollars to BP.  The blowout of the Macondo well off the coast of Louisiana
in April 2010 killed 11 people aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig. The accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits against
BP, as well as  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the rig that burned and
sank, and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cement services for
the project.  $18 Billion Maximum  The judge’s endorsement of the U.S. spill estimate could
trigger a maximum fine of $18 billion under the  Clean Water Act 
if he finds gross negligence. A finding affirming BP’s
assessment that the spill was 40 percent smaller than the
government says might shave as much as $7.5 billion from the
maximum payment.  The “quantity of the oil released” may also help
determine how much BP will have to pay for natural-resource
damage claims, Justice Department lawyers said in a Sept. 5
filing. Under U.S. law, BP still faces unspecified billions of
dollars in additional expenses to restore the gulf coast
environment.  BP has countered that the U.S. assessment is flawed and the
government hasn’t used the most accurate data.  “The defense will nitpick our experts, but they’re not
going to tell you the actual flow rate,” O’Rourke, the
government lawyer, told the judge today.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans
at   ajohnson182@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  