-- Canada Stocks Rise as Gold Producers Rally Amid U.S. Debt Debate
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-10-07T20:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/canada-stocks-rise-as-gold-producers-rally-amid-u-s-debt-debate.html
Canadian  stocks  rose, following a
decline last week, after gold producers rallied as investors
sought a store of value amid growing concern that the U.S. could
default on its debt.  AuRico Gold Inc. and Osisko Mining Corp. jumped at least 5
percent as all 24 members of a gold index advanced with the
price of the precious metal. Allied  Nevada  Gold Corp. surged 28
percent after saying it reached its production and sales targets
for the third quarter.  BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)  rallied 4.1 percent after
a Macquarie Group Ltd. analyst raised his rating on the
smartphone maker to the equivalent of a hold amid a report the
company was in new takeover discussions.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  climbed 29.60
points, or 0.2 percent, to 12,788.25 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
index slipped 0.7 last week and has added 2.9 percent this year.
Trading volume was 13 percent lower than the 30-day average.  “It’s textbook, this is what should happen, gold should be
going up so the market is responding rationally to this
crisis,” said Jeffrey Burchell, co-chief investment officer
with Aston Hill Financial Inc. in Toronto. The firm manages
about C$7 billion ($6.8 billion). “Every time in the past when
they’ve had these crises you have a situation where the market
has sold off in advance. This time it hasn’t, the market is
acting rationally because everyone knows at some point this is
going to get solved.”  Default Threat  President  Barack Obama  said he would be willing to
negotiate with Republicans on fiscal terms if they raised the
debt limit by next week and restored government funding.  The U.S. government could default on its debt if lawmakers
don’t reach an agreement to raise the borrowing limit by Oct.
17. Economists say failure by the world’s largest borrower to
pay its debt will devastate stock markets from  Brazil  to Zurich
and throw the U.S. and world economies into a recession that
probably would become a depression.  The benchmark U.S. equity gauge fell more than 11 percent
in three days in August 2011 amid a stalemate over the debt
limit. The losses were later reversed and the  S&P 500  gained 25
percent in the 12 months through August 2012.  In Canada today, building permits tumbled 21.2 percent to
C$6.34 billion in August from a revised 21.4 percent gain in
July, on a decline in commercial projects such as retail stores
and office buildings.  Seven of 10 main industries in the S&P/TSX rose today, with
producers of raw materials and technology stocks rising 0.8
percent to lead advances.  Gold Miners  The S&P/TSX Gold Index jumped 2.3 percent, with all 24
members rising. Gold added 1.2 percent in  New York  for the first
gain in three sessions as the U.S. budget impasse stoked demand
for the metal as a store of value.  Osisko Mining climbed 7 percent to C$5.35 and AuRico Gold
gained 5 percent to C$4.02.  Allied Nevada jumped 28 percent to C$5, the biggest gain
since April, after the company said it is on track to meet its
2013 forecasts for gold and silver production. The miner plans
to report third-quarter results during the week of Nov. 4.  Rio Alto Mining Ltd. (RIO)  added 4.4 percent to C$1.89, snapping
a five-day slide, after saying it will meet its forecast for
gold output this year.  BlackBerry rallied 4.1 percent to C$8.20, halting a two-day
losing streak, after Kevin Smithen, analyst with Macquarie,
raised his rating for the stock with a price target of $7.
BlackBerry has six buys, 22 holds and 14 sells, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  New Suitors  Reuters reported on Oct. 4 after the close that BlackBerry
was in talks with six firms, including Google Inc. and Cisco
Systems Inc. for a potential sale. The company has a conditional
deal to sell itself to a group led by Fairfax Financial Holdings
Ltd., its largest shareholder, for about $4.7 billion, or $9 a
share.  Air  Canada  soared 4.3 percent to C$4.66. The nation’s
largest airline extended a five-year high and has rallied 32
percent in the past five sessions. It said on Oct. 3 that costs
for the third quarter and full year will decline more than
anticipated. Air Canada has surged 166 percent in 2013 for the
best performance in the S&P/TSX.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  