-- Canadian Heavy Crude Strengthens as Seasonal Decline Overdone
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-10-07T19:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/canadian-heavy-crude-strengthens-as-seasonal-decline-overdone.html
Canadian heavy crude strengthened for
the first time in four days on speculation that declines caused
by a seasonal softening in demand were overdone.  Western Canadian Select for November delivery rose 75 cents
to $32.75 a barrel below U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate
oil, according to Calgary oil broker Net Energy Inc.  WCS, a blend of oil-sands bitumen and diluent, has weakened
by more than $10 a barrel from Sept. 10 through Oct. 4 as U.S.
refineries cut back output for seasonal maintenance and supplies
of heavy oil increase, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Refineries in PADD 2, or the U.S. Midwest, scaled back
 operations  by 3.9 percentage points to 89.8 percent of capacity
this month, U.S. Energy Information Administration data show.  “It’s a seasonal trend, you’ve got PADD 2 refining
capacity coming off with the fall,” said Christopher MacCulloch, an analyst with Desjardins Securities Inc.  MacCulloch said the increase in oil-by-rail traffic, which
allows more heavy barrels from  Canada  to get to refineries on
the Gulf Coast, would help to prevent further weakening in the
WCS spread this year.  “With so much rail moving heavy volumes there’s more of a
floor on differentials than there used to be,” he said in a
telephone interview from Calgary. “I don’t think it will get
down to the $40 to $42 levels it reached back in December and
January.”  Record Discount  WCS reached a record discount of $42.50 a barrel on Dec. 14
last year as growing production from  Alberta  filled up export
pipelines, causing a bottleneck.  Canadian oil-sands production is forecast to continue
growing this year, by 10.5 percent to 1.99 million barrels a
day, a June forecast by the Canadian Association of Petroleum
Producers showed.  Rail transport has taken some of the pressure off of
Canada’s constrained pipeline system. Exports by train of oil
from Western Canada were estimated at 175,000 barrels a day in
September, more than double the volume a year earlier, according
to an August report by Calgary investment bank Peters & Co.  Conventional heavy oil also strengthened on the spot
market, rising $1 a barrel to a $36 discount, Net Energy said.
Syncrude, a light oil processed from oil-sands bitumen, was
unchanged at a $13 discount as of 2:30 p.m.  New York  time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  