-- Canada Rejects MTS Allstream Sale to Accelero on Security
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-10-08T01:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/canada-rejects-mts-sale-of-allstream-to-accelero-over-security.html
Canada rejected  Manitoba Telecom
Services Inc. (MBT) ’s C$520 million ($504 million) sale of its
Allstream division to Accelero Capital Holdings Sarl Group, the
investment firm co-founded by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , citing national security concerns.  MTS Allstream operates a national fiber-optic network that
provides “critical telecommunications services to businesses
and governments, including the government of Canada,” Industry
Minister  James Moore  said in a statement today. He did not
elaborate on his concerns.  “MTS Allstream is extremely surprised and disappointed by
this decision,” the Winnipeg-based company said in a statement.
“MTS Allstream and Accelero have responded openly and
constructively to Industry Canada’s requests for information in
the 136 days since the transaction was announced.”  The decision raises questions about Canadian ownership
policy in the wireless industry. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
government has been trying to encourage competition in the
nation’s wireless sector, while stepping up scrutiny of foreign
investments. It tightened the national security provision of its
foreign-takeover law in June, and made changes to boost
oversight of acquisitions by state-owned enterprises.  “Accelero has proposed far-reaching, comprehensive and
binding undertakings to the Canadian government, including a
commitment to invest C$300 million over three years to pursue
Allstream’s capital plans,”  Manitoba Telecom said, adding the
two companies are reviewing their options.  ‘No Appeal’  “We were told right at the end of the afternoon that the
minister has now rendered the decision and that was it,” Pierre Blouin, Manitoba Telecom’s chief executive officer, said in an
interview. “There’s no appeal in that type of process.”  The Canadian government automatically reviews foreign
takeovers of businesses with more than C$344 million in assets
under a law called the Investment  Canada  Act. The law allows the
government to block deals deemed a threat to security.  In a separate statement, Paris and Cairo-based Accelero
said it was disappointed in the decision, which it called
“unfounded and unexpected.”  In his earlier foray into Canada, Sawiris’s Orascom Telecom
Holding SAE backed Wind Mobile, an Ontario-based startup
carrier, with a $700 million loan in 2008, helping finance the
company’s purchase of wireless spectrum.  Wind Mobile’s initial strategy of offering cheap prepaid
wireless service faced competition from other discount operators
such as Public Mobile, as well as the established brands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  