-- Canadian Consumer Confidence Index Falls on U.S. Concern
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-10-07T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/canadian-consumer-confidence-index-falls-on-u-s-concern.html
Canadian consumer sentiment fell for
the first time in more than a month as budget disputes in the
U.S. prompted views of the economy to deteriorate, according to
the new Bloomberg Nanos Canadian Confidence Index.  The index, a weekly measurement of the economic mood of
Canadians, fell to 59.04 in the period ended Oct. 4, from 59.75
the previous week. It marks the first decline since the week
ended Aug. 30 for the index, which tracks consumers’ perceptions
of the strength of the economy, job security, real estate and
their financial situation.  A measure of attitudes about the economy slumped as
lawmakers in the U.S. failed to resolve their differences over
the nation’s budget, culminating last week in a shutdown of the
government. Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said Sept. 30 the
dispute underscores that the Canadian economy remains vulnerable
to global uncertainties.  “In the wake of the U.S. budget showdown, all measures
that make up the Canadian index showed some negative pressure
this week,” said  Nik Nanos , chairman of Nanos Research Group,
the Ottawa-based polling company. “I would expect that over the
next few weeks we will find out whether there is a spillover
chill-effect on Canadians  consumer confidence .”  The Bank of Montreal on Oct. 4 lowered its forecast for
U.S. growth in the fourth quarter by half a percentage point to
2.5 percent, citing the shutdown of the U.S. government.  The share of Canadians who believe the economy will become
stronger over the next year fell to 21 percent last week from
22.4 percent, while those who expect it to weaken increased to
17.6 percent from 16.5 percent.  Rattling Moods  The first partial closing of the U.S. government in 17
years risks further rattling consumers’ moods at the same time
as the U.S. nears an Oct. 17 deadline to raise the debt limit
and avoid default, said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at
Bloomberg LP in New York.  “The policy brinkmanship in  Washington  carries further
risk to Canadian consumer and business sentiment the closer the
U.S. approaches the day when its Treasury runs out of cash,”
Brusuelas said.  The Bloomberg Nanos Canadian Confidence Index has two sub-indexes: the Bloomberg Nanos Canadian Pocketbook Index on
personal finances, and the Bloomberg Nanos Expectations Sub-index on future views. The data in the indexes date to 2008 and
is based on phone interviews with 1,000 consumers, using a four-week rolling average of 250 respondents. The results are
accurate to within 3.1 percentage points.  Pocketbook Index  The Pocketbook Index, based on survey responses to
questions on personal finances and job security, fell to 60.77
from 61.37. The share of Canadians who report their jobs are
secure fell to 68.8 percent from 69.8 percent, while those
saying they’re not secure rose to 11.4 percent from 10.6
percent.  The  expectations index , based on surveys for the outlook
for the economy and real estate prices, fell to 57.32 from 58.13
as fewer Canadians predicted home prices would rise.  The decline in sentiment in Canada also mirrors a similar
drop in the U.S. over the past week as the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index, a separate gauge of consumer sentiment in the
U.S., fell for the first time in four weeks.  Before last week’s drop, Canadian consumer sentiment had
climbed to the highest in more than two years amid data that
have shown employment rising, the housing market remaining
buoyant and the economy accelerating.  Canada’s economy grew at its fastest pace in two years in
July, Statistics  Canada  reported Sept. 30, with the 0.6 percent
advance reversing the prior month’s drop.  Housing Market  Concerns that Canada’s housing market will cool had been
dissipating until last week. Home sales in Canada’s largest
markets surged in September from a year earlier as historically
low interest rates continue to lure buyers, regional data show.
Purchases of existing homes in Toronto rose 30 percent in
September from a year earlier, the city’s real estate board
reported Oct. 3.  “The Canadian consumer is holding well and steady,” said
David Williamson, head of retail and business banking at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said in an Oct. 1 interview.  The Bloomberg Nanos gauge of Canadians’ views on real
estate weakened last week, with 36.6 percent polled predicting
increased real estate values in their neighborhoods, down from
38.1 percent a week earlier.  Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp., the Ottawa-based housing
agency, will report  housing starts  data for September tomorrow,
with economists forecasting home starts will grow to an annual
pace of 185,000 from 180,300 in August.  Elusive Exports  Concerns that the global economy will falter remain. Bank
of Canada Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem said Oct. 1 the
nation’s economy will expand more slowly this year than the
central bank has forecast because export growth remains
“elusive.”  After an initial burst following the recession, Canada’s
economy began to slow last year amid weak global demand for its
goods and a slump in business capital spending. Until Macklem’s
speech, the central bank had  predicted  a recovery in exports
would begin at the end of this year.  Statistics Canada will report trade data for August
tomorrow. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a 20th
consecutive monthly trade deficit, with the median estimate
pegged at a C$680 million trade gap.  The statistics agency this week is also releasing data on
new home prices and employment. This morning, it released its
building permits report, showing the value of municipal permits
dropped 21.2 percent in August, reversing a 21.4 percent gain a
month earlier.  Jobs Report  Canada probably  recorded  a 13,500 gain in employment in
September, a second straight monthly increase, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The jobs
report is scheduled for an Oct. 11 release. Canada has  averaged 
monthly job gains of about 13,000 this year, half last year’s
pace.  The decline in confidence last week was widespread among
most age groups, income levels and regions of the economy.
Consumers in prairie provinces such as Alberta led declines
among regions. Canadians earning between C$60,000 and C$74,999 a
year posted the biggest decline in confidence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  