-- Canada Dollar Falls on Building Permits Decline, U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-10-07T21:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/canada-dollar-falls-on-crude-oil-drop-u-s-government-shutdown.html
The Canadian dollar fell against the
greenback, snapping two days of gains, as building permits
dropped in August from a record high and the U.S. government
shutdown entered a second week.  The currency was weaker against most of its 16 major peers
as crude oil, the nation’s largest export, declined and stocks
fell. U.S. Speaker John Boehner said the House can’t pass an
increase to the U.S. debt ceiling without packaging it with
other provisions -- something President  Barack Obama  has labeled
a nonstarter, adding to concern growth is slowing in Canada’s
largest trading partner.  “It’s more a function of the data that came out this
morning,”  David Tulk , chief Canada macro strategist at TD
Securities, a unit of Toronto-Dominion Bank, said by phone from
Toronto. “In the vacuum of data from a North American
perspective, what is released typically on the Canadian side of
the border may have more of an outsized impact on the
currency.”  Some U.S. economic reports haven’t been released because of
the government shutdown.  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the aquatic bird on
the C$1 coin, declined 0.2 percent to C$1.0313 per U.S. dollar
at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 96.97 U.S. cents.  Oil Trade  West Texas Intermediate crude dropped 0.7 percent to
$103.16 a barrel in New York. The  discount  for  Canada ’s
benchmark Western Canada Select faced to West Texas
Intermediate, its U.S. peer, was at $32.75 a barrel, after
reaching $34.50 on Oct. 4, the most since Jan. 24.  The value of municipal permits dropped 21.2 percent to
C$6.34 billion ($6.14 billion), following a revised 21.4 percent
jump in July, Statistics Canada said in Ottawa. Economists
forecast a 7.4 percent fall according to the median of eight
responses to a Bloomberg survey.  “The fact that the U.S. government is still shut down is
starting to concern markets a little bit more now that we’re a
week into it,” David Bradley, director of foreign-exchange
trading at Scotia Capital Inc., a unit of  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,
said by phone from Toronto. “We just had Canadian data, which
was quite a bit weaker than expected. That’s helped this last
little push.”  The nation’s government bonds rose, pushing yields on the
benchmark 10-year security down one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.57 percent. The price of the 1.5 percent
security due in June 2023 increased 10 cents to C$90.95.  Debt Sale  The Bank of Canada will sell C$2.7 billion ($2.6 billion)
of three-year notes on Oct. 9. The securities mature in February
2017.  Canada is having second thoughts about selling ultra-long
bonds as investors including Pacific Investment Management Co.
prepare for the end of four years of unprecedented monetary
stimulus by the world’s central banks.  As part of their annual consultations with bond dealers,
the Finance Ministry and Bank of Canada questioned the wisdom of
selling debt maturing in 40 years or more, asking how the banks
would “characterize demand for long-term bonds since yields
began rising in May.” Finance Minister Jim Flaherty unveiled
the ultra-long plan at his March budget, when 30-year government
yielded 2.5 percent, compared with 3.1 percent now.  “It’s scaring them somewhat, which has likely eroded their
appetite to a degree,” said Ian Pollick, senior fixed-income
strategist in Toronto at the capital markets unit of Royal Bank
of Canada, one of the central bank’s primary dealers. “It’s
unlikely they will shelve the idea altogether, though more
reluctance is likely in the decision process.”  The stalemate between the White House and House Republicans
showed little sign of thawing just 10 days from when Treasury
Secretary Jacob J. Lew told lawmakers the U.S. will exhaust
measures to avoid breaching the  debt  ceiling. The House and
Senate weren’t in session yesterday and there were no meetings
planned between the two sides.  The Canadian dollar has lost 2 percent this year against
nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar gained 2.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  