-- Dodgers Oust Braves as Cardinals Force Decider, Rays Avoid Sweep
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-10-08T05:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/cardinals-even-nl-playoff-series-with-pirates-behind-wacha-s-gem.html
Juan Uribe ’s two-run homer in the
eighth inning sent the Los Angeles Dodgers to the National
League Championship Series with a 4-3 victory that eliminated
the Atlanta Braves from the Major League Baseball playoffs.  The Dodgers next will face the  St. Louis Cardinals  or the
Pittsburgh Pirates, who will play a decisive Game 5 tomorrow in
their playoff series. Cardinals rookie Michael Wacha came within
five outs of pitching the third postseason no-hitter in MLB
history in a 2-1 win yesterday at Pittsburgh that sent the
series back to St. Louis.  The Tampa Bay Rays stayed alive in the American League
playoffs against the  Boston Red Sox , winning 5-4 on a game-ending home run by Jose Lobaton, while the Oakland Athletics
took a two-games-to-one lead over the Detroit Tigers in the
other AL division series with a 6-3 victory.  “I feel good,” Uribe said in a televised on-field
interview before getting drenched by bucket-toting teammates.
“At the moment, I came up with something big.”  The Dodgers, who won the series three games to one, trailed
by a run before Uribe’s home run.  Carl Crawford  hit solo homers for the Dodgers in the first
and third innings. The Braves tied it in the fourth on a run-scoring single by  Chris Johnson  and a groundout by Andrelton
Simmons, and took a 3-2 lead in the seventh on a single by
pinch-hitter Jose Constanza after Elliot Johnson had tripled.  Dodgers pitcher  Clayton Kershaw  started on three days’ rest
for the first time in his career, allowing two unearned runs on
three hits in six innings. He did not figure in the decision.
The Cardinals’ Wacha, 22, had a no-hitter until Pedro Alvarez
hit a solo home run with one out in the eighth inning. The only
other baserunners Wacha allowed came on a pair of walks to
 Russell Martin  in the sixth and eighth innings.  Wacha’s Mastery  “I don’t know if you can put a kid in a tougher spot,”
Cardinals manager Mike Matheny said. “He came out and just made
pitches all day long. He’s just got a knack of getting up there
and very business-like getting the job done.”  Wacha, who had nine strikeouts yesterday, lost a no-hitter
on an infield single with two outs in the ninth inning in his
previous start Sept. 24 against the Washington Nationals.  The only two pitchers who have thrown postseason no-hitters
are  Don Larsen  of the  New York Yankees , who tossed a perfect
game against the Brooklyn Dodgers in the 1956  World Series , and
 Roy Halladay , who had a no-hitter for the Philadelphia Phillies
in the 2010 playoffs against the  Cincinnati Reds .  Matt Holliday  hit a two-run homer in the sixth for the
Cardinals’ only runs.  Pool Shot  Lobaton’s home run with two outs in the ninth inning went
into a pool in the right-field stands at Tropicana Field to give
the host Rays their first win in the best-of-five series. Tampa
Bay, which was outscored 19-6 in losing the first two games in
Boston, hosts Game 4 today.  The Red Sox scored on a throwing error, a wild pitch and
 David Ortiz ’s single to take a 3-0 lead. Evan Longoria tied the
game with a three-run homer in the fifth inning.  Tampa Bay took a 4-3 lead in the eighth on a run-scoring
groundout by pinch-hitter  Delmon Young , only to have Boston tie
it in the ninth when pinch runner Xander Bogaerts scored on
Dustin Pedroia’s groundout.  Earlier yesterday, Josh Reddick, Brandon Moss and Seth Smith hit home runs as the Athletics won at Detroit. Oakland can
advance to the AL Championship Series with a win in Game 4 today
in Detroit.  Oakland’s Scoring  After the A’s and Tigers combined to score six runs while
splitting the first two games of the series in Oakland, they
scored nine runs in a three-inning span yesterday at Comerica
Park in Detroit.  Oakland opened the scoring on an error in the third inning.
Reddick hit a solo home run and Coco Crisp added a sacrifice fly
in the fourth to give the A’s a 3-0 lead.  The Tigers responded with three runs in their half of the
fourth inning to tie the game.  Victor Martinez  had a run-scoring
double and Jhonny Peralta added a two-run single.  Oakland came back with three runs in the fifth, on a solo
home run by Moss and a two-run shot by Smith, both off Tigers
starter Anibal Sanchez.  Moss, who struck out in his three other at-bats yesterday,
now has nine strikeouts in the series.  “I made contact,” Moss said in an on-field interview.
“It’s just one of those things, I strike out a lot. You got to
go up and be who you are, and finally I didn’t miss one.”  The game featured a verbal exchange in the ninth inning
between Oakland reliever Grant Balfour and Martinez, who walked
to the mound while he and Balfour yelled at each other. Both
benches emptied, but no punches were thrown and no players were
ejected from the game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  