-- Chevron's Ecuador Defendants Denied Jury Trial by Court
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-10-07T18:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/chevron-s-ecuador-defendants-denied-jury-trial-by-court.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  won a request to have a
judge rather than a jury decide its case over alleged fraud in
an Ecuadorian pollution verdict.  U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan in Manhattan ruled today
that the Ecuadorians and their legal adviser, Steven Donziger,
don’t have a constitutional right to a jury trial because the
San Ramon, California-based company isn’t seeking damages.  “Defendants argue that they are entitled to a jury as a
matter of fairness,” Kaplan said. “But that argument -- even
if it had merit, which it does not -- is beside the point.”  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil firm, alleges that
Donziger and others, in a case over pollution in the Ecuadorian
jungle, won a $19 billion verdict against the company by fraud.
A trial in the lawsuit is scheduled for Oct. 15.  The trial was initially set to be held in two parts, with
damages being sought only against Donziger and his firm and not
the Ecuadorian plaintiffs in the environmental suit. Chevron
dropped its damages claim against the legal adviser and said it
no longer wanted a jury trial.  A jury in a civil case is guaranteed only if the plaintiff
is seeking damages, Kaplan wrote. Otherwise, parties must agree
to it, he said.  Residents of  Ecuador ’s Lago Agrio area near the Colombian
border have sought damages for about 20 years for pollution in
the Amazon rainforest that they allege was caused by Texaco
before it was acquired by Chevron.  Wrongdoing Denied  Chevron denies there was any wrongdoing by it in Ecuador and
claims that Texaco cleaned up its share of the pollution at its
former oil fields, which were taken over by state-owned
PetroEcuador. The U.S. company also said that it was released
from future liability by an agreement between Texaco and
Ecuador.  The company is seeking to bar the Ecuadorians from enforcing
the verdict and disgorgement of any gains they won as a result
of the alleged fraud.  The racketeering case is Chevron v. Donziger, 11-cv-00691,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).
The appeals court case is In Re Naranjo, 13-00772, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 