-- Cities Should Think Twice Before Hiring Again
-- B y   S t e p h e n   E i d e
-- 2013-10-07T15:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/cities-should-think-twice-before-hiring-again.html
As Congress debates the expanding
size of the federal government, the next generation of mayors
soon to take office in New York,  Boston  and in other U.S. cities
will inherit public sectors much smaller than what they were
five years ago. The recession cut more than 500,000 local jobs,
according to the  Bureau of Labor Statistics . And unlike private-sector employment, which has been growing since early 2010,
government hiring remains weak.  Mayors should make a virtue out of necessity and postpone
adding more workers for the foreseeable future. Although more
local hiring would push down metropolitan unemployment rates,
the mayors’ greater responsibility is to stabilize budgets,
which remain fragile in almost all big U.S cities.  Based on figures from the most recent jobs report, had
local governments gained back all the jobs they lost since 2008,
the national  unemployment rate  would be less than 7 percent,
instead of  7.3 percent .  As one measure of the severity of the  recession , local
governments only stopped losing jobs late last year, after four
years of almost uninterrupted decline and more than three years
since the recession officially ended. In  Los Angeles , for
example, the city government has shed 5,000  employees  in the
last five years -- 14 percent of the public-sector workforce.  Of course, “recovery” in the public sector is based on
local governments’ pre-recession workforce. Should cities be
employing more employees than they are now? What’s the “right
size” of city government? We can’t look to the past for
guidance: In the dot-com and early 1990s recessions, government
workforces actually increased.  Higher Spending  Spending isn’t down. According to the most recent data from
the Census Bureau, local governments spent $2 trillion in 2011.
Adjusted for inflation, that’s $150 billion more than in 2005,
when the  local workforce  was the same size as it is now. Local
spending has continued to increase since 2011.  Spending and hiring have been decoupled because of a spike
in costs for employee benefits for both current employees and
retirees. Sometimes described as “fixed” or
“uncontrollable,” health-care and pension costs have, in most
recent years, risen at a faster rate than revenue growth,
restricting cities’ ability to add more workers, and directly
forcing cuts in some cities.  Remarking on  Chicago ’s recent decision to dismiss more than
2,000 teachers and school support staff, Mayor  Rahm Emanuel 
said: “The pension crisis is no longer around the corner. It
has arrived at our schools.”  Thus, in the near term, mayors will have the “right size”
question answered for them. This gives them some breathing space
to assess their operations, head count and needs.  What, if anything, has a loss of a half-million jobs meant
for municipal services? Recessions teach many employers that
they can get by with less. New York’s crime rate continues to
plummet even though the city’s police department has lost more
than 2,000 uniformed employees since Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
(who is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP) took office in 2002. Meanwhile, the city’s annual
pension costs have grown by 400 percent, or $6 billion, in 2013
dollars.  Overstaffing has long afflicted fire departments in  Boston 
and many other cities. Since the early 1980s, firefighter
cohorts have continued to grow with budget and population
increases, but the number of actual structure fires has declined
by more than 40 percent.  Cities will probably face the strongest pressure to hire
back teachers, who compose the  largest  employee cohort at any
 level  of American government by far.  Hiring Teachers  But mayors and school officials should insist that the need
for more  teachers  be evaluated in the context of student and
school performance and overall compensation packages, instead of
making the assumption that we need to hire more teachers as soon
as possible simply because we used to employ more of them.  Keeping public-sector payrolls lean is the easiest way to
control personnel spending, because it constitutes the largest
area of concern in any city budget, in terms of both its
magnitude and the difficulty in managing rates of growth.  Most big city mayors must settle on salaries through
collective bargaining. Unions also exert considerable influence
over health-care costs, as do  medical inflation  trends far
beyond officials’ power to control. Pension costs are determined
by stock market returns, benefit formulas and strong legal
protections that grant current leaders almost no latitude to
change benefits for existing workers or retirees.  The point isn’t more austerity, and certainly not more
cuts, but simply less presumption about what a likely low-growth
future holds for city budgets. Mayors are proud, but, in service
to their ambition and legacy, about which it’s never too early
to think, they should be cautious about hiring.  (Stephen Eide is a senior fellow at the Manhattan
Institute’s Center for State and Local Leadership.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen Eide in  New York  at  seide@manhattan-institute.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 