-- Commandos Surrounded Al-Qaeda Suspect’s SUV in Libya
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2013-10-07T18:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/commandos-surrounded-al-qaeda-suspect-s-suv-in-libya.html
Abdullah al-Rugai stood outside his
family’s home in a leafy Tripoli suburb today and showed where
four vehicles with 10 men swooped in over the weekend to grab
his father, an accused al-Qaeda leader now in U.S. custody.  “The cars blocked his car, then the white van stopped and
the guys jumped out,” the 21-year-old said in an interview
today. “The guys in masks, they were probably the Americans,
they moved very well, like professionals. The others looked like
amateurs, some of them were Libyans. Some of them were shouting
at my father, ‘Get out, get out,’ in Arabic.’”  While al-Rugai denies his father was ever a terrorist, U.S.
officials say he goes by the name Abu Anas al-Libi and is a
veteran al-Qaeda official. Al-Libi was indicted by the U.S.
attorney in the Southern District of  New York  in 2000 for taking
part in deadly 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and
 Tanzania .  “He is a key al-Qaeda figure and he is a legal and an
appropriate target for the U.S. military under the Authorization
of the Use of Military Force passed in September of 2001,”
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said in a news conference in Bali,
 Indonesia .  Al-Libi is being held on the  USS San Antonio  in the
Mediterranean where he is being questioned by interrogators
including representatives of the Central Intelligence Agency and
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , according to a U.S.
official briefed on the operation who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  Somali Raid  U.S. forces also raided a Somali town over the weekend in
an unsuccessful effort to capture a leader of the Islamist group
al-Shabaab.  U.S. armed forces undertook the missions “to hunt down
those responsible for acts of terrorism,” Kerry said. “This
makes clear that the U.S. will never stop in its effort to hold
those accountable who conduct acts of terror.”  Libya , in a statement on the government’s official Facebook
page, yesterday asked the U.S. to explain its role in the
seizure of one of its citizens.  “The government stresses how keen it is that Libyans
should face trial in Libya regardless of the charges, and that
suspects are innocent until proven guilty,” it said in the
statement. “Concerned ministries have been tasked with
following up the matter with U.S. authorities.”  Abdullah al-Rugai said his father was returning from a
mosque at 6:30 on Saturday morning when vehicles surrounded his
black Hyundai Tucson SUV. He said the men were all in civilian
clothes and that three wore black face masks and carried
handguns fitted with what looked like silencers.  ‘Body Floppy’  The car, missing its driver’s window, still sits outside
the home in the suburb of Noufle’een, glass from the broken
window lying on the street beside it.  Abdullah said his father was pulled from the car and
dragged across the road, and appeared to have been drugged or
stunned by the men. “His body was floppy, he wasn’t speaking,”
he said.  He said his father is innocent of conspiring to bomb U.S.
embassies, never worked with  Osama bin Laden  and had joined
rebels fighting against Soviet forces in  Afghanistan  in the
1980s.  “As a young man he heard how people were being killed,
women raped, in Afghanistan and he wanted to help,” he said.
“He went to fight the Soviets.”  At age nine, Abdullah said, he saw police in Manchester,
England arrest his father. The al-Rugais later moved to  Iran ,
where the whole family was arrested and held for seven years, he
said.  Expected a Plane  In 2011, he said, his father joined rebel forces fighting
to oust Muammar Qaddafi’s government in the NATO-assisted
uprising. “My oldest brother was killed in the fighting,” he
said.  Abdullah said his father, who taught his four sons to
recite the Koran by heart, had prepared them for the day he
might be captured. “My father feared he could be kidnapped at
any time,” he said. “He brought each of us up to be ready to
be the leader of the family.”  “We all expected we would be bombed by plane, we didn’t
think they would come for him like this,” he said.  For Related News and Information:
Kerry Defends Raids on Terror Suspects as Libya Solicits Answer  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli, Libya, at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  