-- Cooper Tire Asks Judge to Fast-Track Apollo Tyre Dispute
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-10-08T11:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/cooper-tire-asks-judge-to-fast-track-apollo-dispute.html
(Corrects to show figures represent a suggested price
reduction in ninth paragraph of story published yesterday.)  Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. (CTB)  asked a
Delaware judge to fast-track its dispute over a proposed $2.5
billion takeover by  Apollo Tyres Ltd. (APTY)  and to hold a trial by
Nov. 7. Cooper shares fell the most in more than two years.  Cooper, based in Findlay,  Ohio , said June 12 that it would
be bought by Gurgaon, India-based Apollo for $35 a share,
sparking four lawsuits by investors seeking more money. Cooper
has now sued Apollo to force the transaction after the Indian
firm said the price was too high. The deal was scheduled to
close on Oct. 4.  Cooper said that while Apollo is contractually obliged to
use its “reasonable best efforts” to complete the takeover,
it’s “currently using its best efforts not to,” according to
filings made public in  Delaware  Chancery Court today.  Apollo may have to pay Cooper a $112.5 million “reverse
breakup fee” if it backs out of the deal, according to a court
filing.  Regarding a labor contract central to the dispute, Cooper
accused Apollo of dragging its feet in negotiating an agreement
with United Steelworkers unions. The delay is intended as
leverage to force Cooper to agree to a lower price, the company
said in a filing.  “These things usually settle,” Charles Elson, director of
the Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University
of Delaware, said in an interview, calling the lawsuit “an
invitation for negotiations.”  Merger Contract  Cooper said in the complaint that under the merger contract
one circumstance that would allow Apollo to walk away is a
“material adverse effect,” something that alters the value of
the target business.  Apollo had agreed such effects would exclude disputes with
Cooper’s labor unions or partners, including a Cooper joint
venture with  China ’s Chengshan Group Co. that Apollo knew about,
according to the complaint.  At one point last week, Apollo representatives suggested a
price reduction of “$8 or $9” a share, according to court
papers.  “Cooper has acknowledged to Apollo that some price
reduction is warranted,” Apollo said in a statement today.
“The issue now is by how much. We continue to have committed
financing from four major international banks and are ready to
launch our financing, subject to reaching agreement.”  In its own statement today, Cooper said it “rejected
Apollo’s efforts to obtain a reduction in share price,” and
“does not agree that any such reduction is warranted.”  Cooper fell more than 13 percent to $25.65 at 2:32 p.m. in
 New York   trading , the biggest intraday decline since August
2011.  The case is Cooper Tire v. Apollo, CA8980, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  