-- Copper Falls on Continuing Deadlock Over U.S. Borrowing Limit
-- B y   S h a r o n   L i n d o r e s   a n d   J a e   H u r
-- 2013-10-07T10:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/copper-falls-on-continuing-deadlock-over-u-s-borrowing-limit.html
Copper fell in London, extending last
week’s drop, as commodities and equities slumped amid the
continuing deadlock over increasing the U.S. government’s debt
ceiling, fueling concern about a potential default.  The stalemate between the White House and  House Republicans 
showed little sign of thawing. The U.S. is set to exhaust
measures to avoid breaching the ceiling in 10 days. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of shares retreated for a third session
in four and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of raw materials
declined for a second day in three.  “With the U.S. budget debate at an impasse, the problem
will no doubt remain the prime influence on the markets this
week,”  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in an e-mailed report today.
The nation is the world’s second-largest copper consumer.  Copper for delivery in three months slid 0.7 percent to
$7,207 a metric ton by 11:10 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange.
Copper for delivery in December fell 0.7 percent to $3.277 a
pound on the Comex in  New York  on trading volume 41 percent
below the average for the past 100 days for the time of day,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Growth in world supply of the metal from mines will reach 4
percent or more a year in 2012-16, topping out next year at 6.1
percent,  Standard Bank  said today in a report. That compares
with gains of less than 1 percent in four of the six years
leading up to 2012, it said.  “One of the main reasons that copper prices have come
under such sustained pressure is the realization that there is
no holding back the rising tide of concentrate supply,”
Standard Bank said. Concentrate is partly processed ore shipped
to smelters from mines.  Copper  stockpiles  tracked by the LME, at the lowest since
March, fell for a 23rd session to 523,425 tons, daily exchange
data showed. Orders to remove the metal from warehouses dropped
for a fifth session in six to 258,775 tons.  Nickel, tin and zinc fell in  London  as lead and aluminum
rose. Markets in  China , the biggest copper consumer, will reopen
tomorrow after closing since Oct. 1 for national holidays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Lindores in London at 
 slindores@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  