-- Credit Risk Climbs in Europe as U.S. Deadlock Threatens Default
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-10-07T10:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/credit-risk-climbs-in-europe-as-u-s-shutdown-threatens-default.html
The cost of insuring corporate bonds
against losses in  Europe  rose by the most in more than a week as
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  said the country may default if
President  Barack Obama  doesn’t negotiate over the budget.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 companies with investment-grade ratings climbed 2.1 basis
points to 99 basis points at 11:31 a.m. in  London , the biggest
increase since Sept. 27. The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly speculative-grade ratings jumped 8.5 basis
points to 395 basis points.  House Republicans  will not back raising the government’s
$16.7 trillion borrowing limit unless the Democrats agree to
other provisions, Boehner said in a TV interview yesterday. Both
sides have 10 days to end their standoff before the U.S.
exhausts measures to avoid breaching the  debt ceiling  and risk
defaulting on its payments, according to Treasury Secretary
Jacob J. Lew.  “The markets have entered the week on the back foot with
the U.S.’s ongoing fiscal impasse weighing on risk appetite,”
 Richard McGuire  and Lyn Graham-Taylor, fixed-income strategists
at Rabobank International in London, wrote in a note to clients.
“Nevertheless, the continued modest nature of the risk off move
associated with the fiscal impasse indicates the market remains
broadly confident a solution will ultimately be found.”  Average yields on investment-grade bonds in euros rose 12
basis points last week to 2 percent, the highest since Sept. 18,
Bloomberg  bond index  data show. Yields on  junk-rated  notes fell
10 basis points to a seven-week low of 4.7 percent.  Bond Debut  In the new issue market,  bioMerieux , a French developer of
tests for HIV and hepatitis, is debuting 300 million euros ($407
million) of seven-year notes to yield 3 percent to 3.25 percent,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc, (LLOY)  the U.K.’s biggest mortgage
lender, is selling as much as 1 billion euros of five-year bonds
to yield about 65 basis points more than the mid-swap rate.  German building materials maker Xella International
Holdings Sarl begins meeting investors in Europe today to market
200 million euros of five-year payment-in-kind toggle bonds. The
securities, which may be rated B3 or six levels below investment
grade by Moody’s Investors Service, will be issued through the
company’s Xella Holdco Finance SA unit, the person said.  PIK toggle notes give the borrower the option of paying
coupons with cash or more debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  