-- Crestwood Seeking Liquids Midstream Deals After Merger
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-10-07T16:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/crestwood-seeking-liquids-midstream-deals-after-merger.html
Crestwood Midstream Partners LP (CMLP) ,
which is expected today to complete a merger with  Inergy
Midstream LP (NRGM) , is on the hunt for more assets to expand its oil
and natural gas liquids business, focusing on shale regions such
as the Marcellus in the northeast U.S.  The combined companies will have a market capitalization of
about $6.1 billion and operations in the Bakken of  North Dakota ,
the Niobrara of  Colorado , the Permian in West Texas, and the
Utica in  Ohio , as well as the Marcellus.  “We think the market is very attractive right now,”
Crestwood Chief Executive Officer Robert G. Phillips said in a
phone interview today from his Houston headquarters. “If we
continue to acquire assets, which we will, they’ll be located in
those areas.”  Inergy will take Crestwood’s name after it closes today on
the $1.61 billion purchase of Crestwood it announced in May. The
combined entities are expected to begin trading in  New York 
tomorrow under Crestwood Midstream’s ticker CMLP. The owner of
the group’s general partner will be called Crestwood Equity
Partners LP and trade under the ticker symbol CEQP.  Crestwood may target businesses between $100 million and $1
billion in size, depending on how a deal could be financed,
Phillips said. Opportunities will be presented to Crestwood’s
newly merged board of directors when it meets in November.  Phillips is aiming for an investment-grade rating from the
credit agencies. To obtain that, Crestwood needs about $500
million in annual free  cash flow , which is “certainly” within
reach next year if it makes additional purchases, he said.  Growth Imperative  The Inergy-Crestwood merger is an example of the emphasis
on growth in the midstream industry as booming U.S. oil and gas
production from shale fields drives a need for more pipelines,
storage and processing units, he said.  “Access to capital is getting more and more competitive
for the small-cap stocks,” Phillips said. “The larger guys in
this industry have an advantage, both with investors as well as
customers.”  Phillips, the former CEO at rival  Enterprise Products
Partners LP (EPD) , said he’s a believer in Enterprise’s diversified
portfolio, with service offerings from the wellhead all the way
to international export facilities.  “We’re striving to replicate that business model,” he
said. “That’s the primary strategic rationale behind the
Crestwood-Inergy merger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  