-- Crude Declines as U.S. Edges Closer to Debt Default
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-10-07T19:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/crude-declines-as-gulf-output-resumes-after-storm-karen.html
West Texas Intermediate crude dropped
as the U.S. neared a breach of the debt ceiling and production
from the  Gulf of Mexico  resumed after a tropical storm.  Prices fell 0.8 percent. House Speaker  John Boehner  said
the country could end up in default if President  Barack Obama 
doesn’t negotiate over the Affordable Care Act, which
Republicans want weakened or delayed. A partial U.S. government
shutdown entered a seventh day. Companies including  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  returned workers to platforms after Tropical Storm Karen
passed through and broke up over Alabama.  “The market is refocusing on the government shutdown and
the debt ceiling,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker
at Tradition Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut. “Worries about
what could result from the shutdown have re-emerged. Karen has
faded and  oil companies  are bringing production back online.”  WTI for November delivery slipped 81 cents to settle at
$103.03 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The volume
of all futures traded was 15 percent above the 100-day average
for the time of day at 2:34 p.m. Prices climbed last week for
the first time in four weeks as Karen forced production
shutdown.  Brent for November settlement advanced 22 cents to $109.68
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume
was 16 percent above the 100-day average. The European benchmark
was at a premium of $6.65 to WTI, up from $5.62 on Oct. 4.  Debt Limit  Boehner said yesterday in an interview on ABC’s “This
Week” program that the House can’t pass an increase to the U.S.
debt ceiling unless other provisions are part of the package.
Obama has said the debt limit should be increased without
conditions.  “We are not going to pass a clean debt limit,” Boehner
said. “The votes are not in the House to pass a clean debt
limit.”  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said the nation risks
defaulting on its payments unless Congress increases the debt
ceiling by Oct. 17.  Republicans have called for repealing or defunding Obama’s
health-care law before agreeing to a new budget. The Obama
administration has said it won’t negotiate with Republicans over
funding the government or raising the debt ceiling, arguing that
those are basic functions of Congress and shouldn’t be used as
leverage.  Catastrophic Consequences  A government default could have catastrophic consequences
that might last decades, the Treasury Department said in a
report last week.  “The market is now starting to say that maybe those people
are really stupid enough to drive us off the cliff,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion.  WTI also fell as BHP was resuming normal operations as it
returned workers to platforms, the company said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  was also moving
staff back, the company said. The  Louisiana Offshore Oil Port 
resumed tanker loadings after suspending them because of Karen,
Barb Hestermann, a spokeswoman, said by e-mail. LOOP is the only
U.S. port capable of offloading ultra-large crude carriers.  Gulf Platforms  BP Plc (BP/) ’s oil and natural gas production remained shut in as
the company worked to confirm platforms were able to operate
safely. Marathon Oil Corp. said it resumed normal operations
after the storm.  “Some of the concern over the tropical storm has been
alleviated and oil production is coming back,” said Jacob Correll, a Louisville, Kentucky-based commodity analyst at
Schneider Electric Professional Services, an energy management
firm that manages more than $20 billion in companies’ annual
energy spending.  Crude pared losses earlier after Reuters reported the
Seaway pipeline, running to the  Gulf Coast  from Cushing,
Oklahoma, resumed shipping after a brief stoppage, citing
Genscape. Cushing is the delivery point for the U.S. oil futures
contract.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 20.4 percent, up from 19.1 percent on Oct. 4, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 613,720
contracts as of 2:38 p.m. It totaled 365,043 contracts on Oct.
4, 39 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was
1.89 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  