-- Cuban Tells Jury He Thought He Was Free to Sell Stock
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/cuban-tells-dallas-jury-he-thought-he-was-free-to-sell-shares.html
Billionaire  Mark Cuban  vowed that he
wouldn’t be pushed around by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission as he finished two days of testimony in the
regulator’s insider-trading case against him.  “I did nothing wrong and I refuse to be bullied,” the
owner of pro basketball’s  Dallas Mavericks  franchise told a jury
yesterday in federal court in  Dallas .  The SEC has accused Cuban of selling about $7.9 million in
stock in a Canadian  Internet company  in 2004 to avoid a $750,000
loss after learning non-public information about a private
placement plan that would dilute his shares.  Cuban, 55, who has been a contestant on television’s
“Dancing With the Stars” and is a regular on the investment-themed TV show “Shark Tank,” has denied the commission’s
allegations, claiming he never agreed to keep the private
placement information confidential and that that wasn’t his sole
reason to sell.  As the SEC closed its case, U.S. District Judge Sidney A. Fitzwater denied a defense request that he throw out the case,
leaving it up to Cuban’s lawyers to call their first witness.  ‘Prima Facie’  “The SEC has made out a prima facie case that Mr. Cuban
had access to information that was non-public and that he traded
on it,” Phillip L. Stern, who spent a decade working as an
enforcement attorney for the regulator, said yesterday in a
phone interview.  “Obviously we need to hear what defense he’ll be putting
in,” he said. Stern, who is now partner with  Chicago ’s Neal
Gerber & Eisenberg LLP, has been following the trial.  Another former SEC lawyer, Alex Bourelly in the Washington
office of Houston-based Baker Botts LLP, said the case will
pivot on the alleged existence of a confidentiality agreement
between Cuban and Guy Faure, then chief executive officer of the
Canadian search engine operator, Mamma.com.  “That’s the big question that both sides are going to have
to grapple with,” Bourelly said yesterday in a phone interview.  At the time he sold all his shares, Cuban was the Montreal-based company’s biggest stockholder. Mamma.com is now Copernic
Inc.  Monetary Penalties  The SEC is seeking disgorgement of his alleged ill-gotten
gains and unspecified monetary penalties. The trial started
Sept. 30.  Faure, in prerecorded testimony played for the 10-person
jury last week, said he called Cuban in June 2004 to tell him of
the company’s intent to carry out a private investment in public
equity, or PIPE, plan.  He also said he’d told Cuban at the outset of that
conversation that the information he was about to impart was
confidential, which he said Cuban acknowledged. After an eight-minute discussion about the company’s private placement plan,
Cuban said, “Now I’m screwed. I can’t sell,” according to
Faure.  The billionaire testified last week that he didn’t recall
specific details of that discussion with Faure.  SEC lawyer Jan Folena yesterday asked Cuban if he believed
Faure was lying when he recounted Cuban’s reaction to news of
the PIPE plan.  Confidentiality Pact  “I don’t know,” the Maverick’s owner answered. Earlier he
denied having entered into a confidentiality pact with Faure.  “I didn’t feel I was under any limitation whatsoever,”
Cuban said. Answering questions from his own attorney, Thomas Melsheimer, he also said he wouldn’t have made such an agreement
orally.  Cuban has said he told Mamma.com investment banker Arnold Owen, who was handling the PIPE transaction, that he planned to
sell his shares.  Testifying for the SEC last week, Owen said he had
difficulty recalling details of the phone conversation he’d had
with Cuban about the private placement plan before the
billionaire cashed out. During that testimony, the SEC presented
statements Owen made during an earlier investigative interview
in which he said he told Cuban during the phone call that the
PIPE would be made public the next day.  “I told him I would sell,” Cuban said yesterday. He also
said he didn’t know when the PIPE offering would be completed.
“I had no idea when it would happen.”  Cuban said his sale was motivated in part by concern the
company was involved with stock promoter Irving Kott, who in May
2004 had pleaded guilty to charges he’d concealed his ownership
interest in the discount brokerage firm J.B. Oxford Holdings
Inc. He said the PIPE offering added to his concerns.  “It was an indication to me that the company was a scam,”
Cuban said of Mamma.com yesterday.  Stern, the Chicago-based  former SEC lawyer , predicted it
will be hard for Cuban to win over the jury simply by saying he
couldn’t recall the Faure discussion or that he had other
reasons for selling his shares.  ‘Difficult Defense’  “I think that’s going to be a very difficult defense,”
Stern said. He noted that the SEC’s lawyer confronted Cuban last
week with contemporaneous e-mail messages in which he’d said he
was motivated to sell by the PIPE.  Bourelly, the Washington lawyer, offered a different
perspective.  “What the defense is doing is giving the jurors as many
possible reasons to let him go, to find him not liable,” he
said.  Bourelly noted Cuban’s celebrity status and his ownership
of the hometown Mavericks, who won the National Basketball
Association championship in 2011.  “He’s a very charismatic guy and if jurors like you, they
may tend to believe you,” the attorney said.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cuban,
08-cv-02050, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas 
(Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas federal court at
 tkorosec@texaswordworks.com ; 
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  