-- Czech Industry Output Unexpectedly Rises in Recovery Sign
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-10-07T09:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/czech-industry-output-unexpectedly-rises-in-recovery-sign.html
Czech industrial output unexpectedly
grew in August, exceeding all but one of economist forecasts and
underpinning an economic recovery that’s keeping the central
bank from starting currency interventions.  Industrial  output  rose 1.6 percent from a year earlier,
boosted by a 26.1 percent increase in car production, after 2.1
percent growth in July, the Czech Statistics Office in Prague
said in a statement today. The median  estimate  in a Bloomberg
survey of 16 analysts was for a 1.3 percent decline.  The $196 billion  economy  is showing signs of a rebound
after rising exports in the second quarter helped end an 18-month recession even as domestic demand remained weak. Following
three interest rate cuts to  effectively zero  last year, central
bankers are debating whether inflation below the 2 percent
target warrants the first koruna sales in 11 years.  “The recovery of the Czech economy continues, and that’s
good news that may have a positive impact on the koruna,”
 Michal Brozka , chief analyst at Raiffeisenbank As in Prague,
said by e-mail. “But threats of central bank interventions
should limit any bigger appreciation moves.”  The currency has shifted to the center of policy
deliberations because its depreciation would make imports more
expensive and boost the competitiveness of exports, curbing
deflation risks.  The koruna has strengthened 1.3 percent to the euro since
Sept. 25, one day before the central bank voted to reject
starting the interventions at a policy meeting. It traded 0.2
percent stronger at 25.532 per euro as of 11:42 a.m. in Prague,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hyundai, VW  Second-quarter gross domestic product  grew  0.6 percent from
the previous three months, ending six consecutive quarters of
contraction. The HSBC Purchasing Managers’ Index signaled growth
in manufacturing for a fifth month in September and the economic
sentiment indicator rose to the highest in 18 months.  Exports, which account for about 80 percent of Czech GDP,
are led by manufacturers including the factories of carmakers
Hyundai Motor Co.,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Skoda Auto AS,  Peugeot SA (UG)  and
Toyota Motor Corp.  The central bank rejected a proposal to start koruna sales
on Sept. 26 because a majority of policy makers didn’t see a
“significant risk” of deflation, according to minutes from the
meeting.  Consumption, Growth  While most board members agreed the probability of starting
the currency interventions remained high and was unchanged from
the previous meeting, some rate setters said weakening the
exchange rate now would risk damping private consumption and
curbing economic growth.  Retail sales  dropped 0.3 percent from a year earlier in
August, a smaller decline than the 1.2 percent median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of 12 economists. They rose 1.3 percent
when adjusted for working-days difference.  Industrial orders rose 12.3 percent from a year earlier in
August, with export orders increasing 15.6 percent, the
statistics office said today.  “All in all, good news, which should reassure the Czech
central bank that the economy continues to recover,” Radomir Jac, chief analyst at Generali PPF Asset Management AS, said in
a note to clients. “Still, any sharp positive reaction of the
Czech koruna to the data release would certainly not be welcomed
by the Czech monetary policy makers after the currency’s gains
seen in the previous week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  