-- Darling to Buy Vion Rendering Division for $2.2 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   S h r u t i   S i n g h
-- 2013-10-07T21:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/darling-said-close-to-2-billion-purchase-of-vion-rendering-unit.html
Darling International Inc. (DAR) , the
largest U.S. recycler of meat-production byproducts and
restaurant cooking oils, agreed to buy a similar business from
Vion Food Group Ltd. of the Netherlands for about 1.6 billion
euros ($2.2 billion).  The purchase of Vion Ingredients is expected to close in
January, subject to regulatory approvals and worker
consultations, Darling said in a statement today. The
acquisition, which according to data compiled by Bloomberg will
be Darling’s largest, will give the Irving, Texas-based company
a business that operates through 58 subsidiaries on five
continents. Vion Ingredients takes slaughterhouse byproducts
such as gelatin, fats and proteins to make products for
pharmaceuticals, food, cosmetics and energy.  “We view the accretive deal as very positive as the
acquisition diversifies Darling’s portfolio geographically while
adding scale,”  Farha Aslam , a New York-based analyst for
Stephens Inc. who recommends buying the shares, said in a report
today. She estimated the value of the deal at 7 to 8 times
trailing earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization and 0.9 times trailing sales.  Darling International’s agreement follows other deals
announced this year including Shuanghui International Holdings
Ltd.’s $4.7 billion purchase of Smithfield Foods Inc., the
world’s largest hog and pork producer. Acquisitions of meat-industry companies announced globally in 2013 total $12.3
billion, the biggest volume since at least 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Two Takeovers  Darling also announced two takeovers in August: its $613
million purchase of  Maple Leaf Foods Inc. (MFI) ’s animal-rendering
unit and the $120 million acquisition of Terra Renewal Services
Inc.’s cooking-oil collection business.  The U.S. company’s shares rose 2.3 percent to $20.80 at the
close in  New York . They have advanced 30 percent this year,
giving the company a market capitalization of about $2.5
billion.  Darling was advised by JPMorgan Chase & Co. on the
takeover, which will be financed through a combination of debt
and equity and will immediately add to earnings per share,
according to the company. JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
BMO Capital Markets are providing financing. Darling’s legal
counsel was K&L Gates LLP and Clifford Chance LLP.  U.K. Sale  Vion, based in the Dutch city of Eindhoven, is selling or
winding down some assets as it focuses on its food divisions at
home and in  Germany . The company sold its U.K. food operations
to 2 Sisters Food Group Ltd. for an undisclosed sum in March and
one month later closed its lamb-processing business, Welsh
Country Foods.  Vion hired Bank of America Corp. in June to help sell its
rendering business. CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Permira
Advisers LLP, two of  Europe ’s largest private-equity firms, made
the second round of bidding for the Vion unit along with
Darling, Apollo Global Management LLC, Advent International
Corp. and Saria Bio-Industries AG, people familiar with the
process said in August.  Vion Ingredients, which was established in 1930 and is
based in Son en Breugel in the Netherlands, employs about 5,700
people, according to the statement. Sales were about 1.6 billion
euros and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization were about 200 million euros in the 2012 financial
year.  Dirk Kloosterboer, CEO of Vion Ingredients, will continue
to lead the business. He will also be appointed as chief
operating officer at Darling and will join the company’s board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  