-- Data Crash Looming for Companies Processing for Obamacare: Taxes
-- B y   L y d i a   B e y o u d
-- 2013-10-07T10:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/data-crash-looming-for-companies-processing-for-obamacare-taxes.html
The initial computer breakdown during
the debut of the health-insurance exchanges that make up
Obamacare shows how difficult it will be for corporate employers
trying to get their own technology running in time.  While companies received a one-year reprieve on reporting
requirements and tax penalties for failure to offer affordable
health coverage to employees, many still have a lot of work left
to do to get systems in place to meet IRS rules, Bloomberg BNA
reported. Those 12 months may not be enough, according to Anne
Phelps, a member of EY’s Washington Council, which helps clients
navigate regulations.  “This is really the first time in the history of employers
providing benefits that we’ve seen this kind of data collection”
to be provided to both the  Internal Revenue Service  and to
employees under the Patient Protection and  Affordable Care Act 
of 2010, Phelps said.  Beginning in January 2016, employers have to provide “an
unprecedented amount of data” on health benefits, including
details on who received an offer of coverage, what the coverage
included and what its value was, Phelps said. They need to make
sure they have systems in place before then to track the number
of full-time employees, obtain the necessary data from them and
communicate to employees about their health care coverage,
Phelps said.  The goal behind the massive collection of data is greater
transparency for individuals and to enforce the individual and
employer mandates under the law, she said.  Federal Troubles  The federal health exchange saw repeated software troubles
and long waits in its first days last week, as 7 million people
visited  healthcare.gov  to check out the insurance offerings
under the Affordable Care Act, known as Obamacare. The 14
exchanges run by  individual states , including Nevada and
 Connecticut , reported similar delays after opening Oct. 1.  That may be a wake-up call for companies, especially big
businesses built with acquisitions.  A key question for employers to consider in setting up
their systems is where to find all the data necessary to meet
the measuring and reporting requirements under the law once the
Jan. 1, 2015, compliance deadline kicks in, said Clayton
Gammill, with EY’s Human Capital Practice department.  If a company has three or four payroll systems built
through acquisitions and multiple benefits providers, data isn’t
in one place and they have to consolidate reporting to give to
the IRS and employees, Gammill said.  Data Warehousing  Companies with separate human resources, payroll and
benefits data systems will also face more complexity in meeting
the requirements, he said.  “What I think most people need to do is bring the data
into some centralized place,” Gammill said.  Whether this occurs through building a data warehouse or
hiring a third-party service provider, “they need to make sure
there’s data cleansing, there’s data consistency, so it’s not
just a flat data dump,” he said. “There’s going to have to be
some logic involved.”  While employers received a reprieve from their reporting
obligations, they will still have to engage with the exchanges
since they opened to individuals on Oct. 1, Phelps said.  Interactions with state and the federal exchanges will vary
widely, as evidenced by the variety of requests the exchanges
have already made of employers about their employees, she said.
Because the law allowed states to establish their own health
care exchanges, “each state has chosen a little bit of a
different path,” Phelps said.  State Rules  More than half of the 50 states have opted for federally
facilitated exchanges, with the remainder implementing their own
insurance marketplaces or an alternative or hybrid model.  The multitude of state responses to the law will affect how
employers can appeal the determination of an employee’s
eligibility for premium tax credits, which could subject an
employer to a shared responsibility payment, Phelps said.  State- and federally facilitated exchanges will make the
initial eligibility determinations, and may choose to contact
employers as part of a sample review process, she said. It will
be critical to ensure employees going to the exchanges now have
all the information they need, she said.  “That interaction is so important to make sure that
employees understand if they did have an offer of coverage, are
they eligible for that credit,” Phelps said. Accurate
information from the employer that is provided by workers to the
exchanges is critical to ensure companies minimize their risk of
being hit with undue penalties, she said.  “The reason why is there’s a link back,” Phelps said.
“If employees get a tax credit, that is the link where the
employer may be on the hook for paying an excise tax.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  