-- Davies Says U.K. Must Add Runways or Risk ’Suboptimal’ Outcome
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-10-07T18:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/davies-says-u-k-must-add-runways-or-risk-suboptimal-outcome.html
The U.K. needs more runways
in the southeast of  England  to avoid the risk of “suboptimal”
travel conditions, Airports Commission Chairman  Howard Davies 
said.  “Our provisional conclusion is that we need some net
additional runway capacity in the southeast of England,” Davies
said in a speech today. Expanding regional airports and boosting
the average load factor of jets arriving at London’s existing
bases will not be enough to ease a capacity crunch, he said.  Flight capacity is squeezed at London’s airports, with
Gatwick and Heathrow close to full, while Mayor  Boris Johnson 
has pledged to block any expansion in favor of a new hub in the
River Thames estuary. The state-appointed Airport Commission is
considering 58 proposals, ranging from runway extensions to
developing green-field sites and aims to release an interim
report in December, with a final report in 2015, Davies said.  Heathrow Airport Ltd., the hub’s owner, submitted three
plans to the commission, each capable of delivering extra
flights by 2025-29 at a cost of 14 billion pounds ($22.5
billion) to 18 billion pounds. The proposals would boost the
number of people using the hub to 123 million to 130 million
from 80 million today.  Johnson has proposed shuttering Heathrow completely and
turning Stansted Airport to the north of the capital into a hub
or developing a completely new base costing 65 billion pounds.
The 1,220-hectare (3,000 acre) Heathrow site could be used to
build 100,000 homes for as many as 250,000 people.  ’One Option’  Gatwick, the world’s busiest single-runway airport, has
identified three alternatives for building a new landing strip
to the south of the existing one by 2025. The airport said in
July that it could add a second runway for as little as 5
billion pounds, eliminating the need for a single U.K. hub.  “I very much hope we could produce one option, which seems
to us to be the best, the former Financial Services Authority
chief said. None of the options has been ruled out and the panel
is also considering ideas that were not submitted to them like
connecting Heathrow and Gatwick with a high-speed rail link, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  