-- Default Poses Operations Risk Even With Planning, Fed Group Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-10-07T23:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/default-poses-operations-risk-even-with-planning-fed-group-says.html
An industry group sponsored by the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  that advises on transactions in
U.S. securities said members’ contingency planning wouldn’t
eliminate the operational risk posed in case of delayed payments
on government debt.  The Treasury Market Practices Group, whose members
represent firms including Morgan Stanley and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
held a regularly scheduled meeting on Sept. 25 and went over
plans for how the industry would handle a U.S. government debt
default threatened within weeks if Congress fails to raise the
debt ceiling.  “The discussion emphasized these contingency actions, if
implemented, would only mitigate, not eliminate, expected
operational difficulties in the event of delayed payments on
Treasury debt,” according to the  minutes  of the meeting, posted
on the New York Fed’s website.  The TMPG, as the group is known, discussed contingency
 plans  throughout 2012 after disruptions in the markets occurred
ahead of a looming debt-ceiling deadline in August 2011. The
group said Sept. 25 that the previously proposed plans remain
relevant, including one that calls for eventual principal
payments for securities with delayed maturities to be made to
the final holder of the debt once the debt limit is raised. The
group cautioned more work still needed to be done.  “Members also highlighted uncertainty of some market
participants about whether the  Treasury securities  with delayed
payments would be eligible for the Discount Window and in Open
Market Operations,” referring to the Fed’s emergency loan
facility and debt it purchases or sells as part of its monetary
policy.  Uneven Planning  The TMPG also questioned whether services providing bond-market prices had “robust contingency plans in place” as well
as the risk that planning overall in the industry was not
uniform.  “Members expressed concerns that contingency planning was
uneven across market participants,” the minutes said. Still,
“members recognized that efforts by industry trade
organizations, to coordinate operational efforts and identify
recommended actions, in response to a contingency event were
more advanced than in prior years.”  A delay in payments by the Treasury on its obligations
could be deemed a technical default, because the government
would have the ability to pay, yet would choose not to,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  In such a case, prices of
Treasuries that mature or have coupon payments due during that
time would likely undergo the greatest negative reaction.  Treasury Deadline  Two years ago, one-month bill rates climbed to a 29-month
high of 0.18 percent as the Aug. 2, 2011, deadline set by
Treasury to avoid a default approached. They traded at 0.015
percent in December 2012 before a year-end trigger would force
automatic spending cuts and tax increases.  One-month Treasury bill yields traded at 0.1572 percent
yesterday, up from negative 0.0051 percent on Sept. 17, before
the government shut down after Republicans and Democrats in
Congress failed to agree on funding for the new fiscal year that
began this month.  To contact the reporters; on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  