-- Denmark Seeks Too-Big-to-Fail Bill Today as Terms Agreed
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-10-08T06:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/denmark-seeks-too-big-to-fail-bill-today-as-lawmakers-set-terms.html
Danish lawmakers are ready to agree
on a bill today that will set tougher capital standards for the
country’s systemically important banks.  The agreement wasn’t “quite ready” late yesterday, and a
final accord is expected today, Conservative Party spokesman for
Denmark’s parliament business committee,  Brian Mikkelsen , said
in a text message.Benny Engelbrecht, business committee
spokesman for the ruling Social Democrats, confirmed a deal has
yet to be struck. The two rejected reports in local media that
an agreement had already been reached yesterday.  The final bill, which would require a group of lenders led
by  Danske Bank (DANSKE)  A/S to hold more capital than their smaller
competitors, is based on a proposal put forward by a government-appointed committee in March. Once parliament’s business
committee agrees on the wording of the legislation, the bill’s
passage into law is a formality.  An accord would mark the latest example of Scandinavian
legislators moving faster on bank regulation than the rest of
 Europe  as near record-low  interest rates  distort credit and
housing markets in some of the world’s richest economies. In
 Sweden , the four biggest banks must hold at least 12 percent
core Tier 1 capital of risk-weighted assets by 2015, a target
 Norway ’s largest lenders must meet by 2016. The European Union
has yet to enforce rules for systemically important banks.  Trigger Levels  Danish talks on too-big-to-fail banks had been hampered by
lawmaker disagreement over trigger levels at which debt converts
to equity and at which management loses its freedom to dish out
dividends and bonuses.  A chief obstacle to reaching an accord has been
disagreement over how far capital levels can fall before a Sifi
is restricted from paying dividends and interest payments, its
management is replaced or it is taken over by regulators. The
Sifi committee’s proposed triggers are too high and would force
banks to pay more for capital than foreign rivals, the industry
has said.  A government-appointed committee in March recommended that
Danske Bank, Nykredit Realkredit A/S,  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) ,  Sydbank
A/S (SYDB) ,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ’s Danish unit and BRFkredit A/S be named
Sifis. The country’s fifth-largest mortgage lender, DLR Kredit
A/S, said in March it would seek to be considered a Sifi.  Like Sweden’s biggest banks, the largest Danish lenders
have combined assets that are about four times the nation’s
gross domestic product. Danske Bank alone has assets that are
more than 180 percent of GDP. A government committee last month
said Danske Bank’s expansion before the crisis, including its
decision to move into Ireland in 2005, put the entire Danish
economy at risk. The committee said regulators were too lax
before the crisis and shouldn’t cave in to industry pressure now
to ease requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  