-- Dodgers Join Pirates in Taking 2-1 Lead in MLB Playoffs
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-07T05:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/dodgers-join-pirates-in-taking-2-1-lead-in-mlb-playoff-series.html
The  Los Angeles  Dodgers and
Pittsburgh Pirates are each a victory away from reaching the
National League Championship Series after Game 3 wins in their
respective Major League Baseball playoff series.  Carl Crawford  and  Juan Uribe  both hit home runs as the
Dodgers scored 10 runs over the first four innings in a 13-6 win
over the  Atlanta Braves  last night in Los Angeles.  “It was a total team effort,” said Crawford, who went 2-for-5 with three runs scored and three runs batted in. “The
guys were swinging the bats well.”  The Pirates beat the St Louis Cardinals 5-3 in yesterday’s
first MLB playoff game, scoring two runs in the bottom of the
eighth inning to break a 3-3 tie in Pittsburgh.  Both best-of-five series had been tied at one game apiece.  The Dodgers now hold a 2-1 lead and can advance to the NLCS
for the first time since 2009 with a win at home tonight. The
Braves need a victory to send the series back to Atlanta for a
decisive fifth game on Oct. 9.  “It’s really important because we don’t want to go back to
Atlanta,” Crawford said. “That’s a good team over there, so we
don’t want to give them any chance. It would be nice to close it
at home.”  The Pirates, in the postseason for the first time in 21
years, can also close out their series today with a home win.
Pittsburgh hasn’t been to the NLCS since making three straight
trips from 1990 to 1992. The Pirates have won eight of 11 games
against the Cardinals this season in Pittsburgh.  Best Record  The Cardinals, who reached the NLCS the past two years,
finished three games ahead of the Pirates in the NL Central
Division and tied the Boston  Red Sox  for the best record in the
majors during the regular season.  “I’ve been very impressed how our club has bounced back
whenever something hasn’t gone exactly how we planned,”
Cardinals manager Mike Matheny said.  Both American League Division Series also continue today,
with the Red Sox seeking to complete a three-game sweep of the
 Tampa Bay Rays . Game 3 will be played in St. Petersburg,
Florida, after Boston outscored Tampa Bay 19-6 in winning the
first two games of the best-of-five series at home.  The  Detroit Tigers  host the  Oakland Athletics  in Game 3 of
their AL series today after the teams split the first two games
in  California . Both games were decided by one run.  The winners of the NL and AL championship series will
advance to the  World Series , which is scheduled for Oct. 23-31.  Pirates Win  The Pirates, who made the postseason as a wild card, moved
a step closer to their first playoff series win since 1979 as
Pedro Alvarez had a run-scoring single in the eighth inning. It
was the fifth run batted in of the series for Alvarez, who had
hit home runs in the first two games.  Russell Martin  followed with a run-scoring single for
Pittsburgh, which had blown leads of 2-0 and 3-2.  Carlos Beltran 
had a two-run single in the fifth inning for  St. Louis  and added
a solo homer in the top of the eighth.  “I never felt like we were going to lose,” said Pirates
relief pitcher Mark Melancon, who was credited with the win. “I
don’t know if that’s from playing a lot of one-run games or
what, but never once did I feel like we would lose.”  The Dodgers gave up two runs in the first inning to the
Braves last night and then scored four in the second, including
a three-run homer by Crawford. After the Braves scored two more
runs in the third inning to tie the score 4-4, the home team
added two runs in the bottom of the third and pushed across four
more in the fourth, capped by Uribe’s two-run shot.  Pulling Away  Los Angeles scored three more runs in the eighth inning, as
Hanley Ramirez,  Adrian Gonzalez  and Yasiel Puig each drove in
their second runs of the game.  “It’s one of those games where you forget about it,”
Braves manager Fredi Gonzalez said at a news conference.  Chris Capuano picked up the victory after pitching three
scoreless innings in relief of rookie starter Hyun Jin-Ryu, who
gave up four runs on six hits in three innings. Braves starting
pitcher Julio Teheran, also a rookie, was tagged for six earned
runs over 2 2/3 innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  