-- Treasury Bill Rates Jump, Internet Stocks Fall on Budget
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-10-08T20:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/dollar-holds-yen-slump-as-australian-index-futures-drop.html
Risk appetites in American capital
markets diminished amid the U.S. budget impasse, pushing
Treasury one-month bill rates to the highest since 2008 and
 Internet stocks  to the biggest losses in two years.  Rates on  one-month bills  more than doubled to 0.33 percent,
the highest since October 2008, while the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  tumbled 1.2 percent to 1,655.45 at 4 p.m. in New York for
its biggest drop since August and lowest close in  a month. The
Nasdaq Internet Index tumbled 4.1 percent, the most since
November 2011, and the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index rose to the highest since June. The MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index added 0.2 percent, paring an earlier rally of 0.6 percent,
with China’s benchmark index rising more than 1 percent as
trading resumed after a holiday.  President  Barack Obama  said the  U.S. economy  risks a “very
deep recession” if Congress doesn’t raise the $16.7 trillion
debt ceiling. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said the
Republican-controlled House should vote to end the government
shutdown and drop demands to change the Affordable Care Act,
while House Speaker  John Boehner  said Reid andObama should
negotiate. Alcoa Inc. posted better-than-forecast  earnings  after
trading closed as the U.S. reporting season began.  “You’re going to see the debt-limit ceiling coming to play
at the end of the week and the market could get volatile,”
 Bernie Williams , chief investment officer of investment
solutions who oversees $16.7 billion at USAA Investments in San
Antonio, said in a phone interview. “Stocks are probably the
best game in town as long as we get positive earnings growth. We
may get a correction here and there, but I don’t think we slide
into a recession.”  Test Vote  With the U.S.’s borrowing authority set to lapse Oct. 17,
Obama reiterated that he won’t negotiate with Republicans over
raising the debt ceiling or reopening the government.  Senate Democrats are planning a test vote before the end of
this week on a measure that would grant Obama authority to raise
the debt ceiling, probably for a year unless two-thirds of both
chambers of Congress disapprove. China and Japan, which together
hold more than $2.4 trillion in Treasuries, raised pressure on
the U.S. to resolve the political impasse.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its global outlook for
this year and next as capital outflows further weaken emerging
markets and warned that a U.S. government default could
“seriously damage” the world economy.  Global Growth  Global growth worldwide will be 2.9 percent this year and
3.6 percent next year, the IMF said in a report today, compared
with July predictions of 3.1 percent for 2013 and 3.8 percent
for 2014. It sees emerging economies growing 4.5 percent this
year, 0.5 percentage point less than three months ago, as
projections were reduced for China, Mexico, India and Russia.  Treasury one-month bill rates surged 17 basis points to
0.33 percent. The Treasury sold $30 billion of one-month bills
today at a rate of 0.35 percent, the highest since 2008. Rates
on Treasury bills due on Oct. 24 climbed to the highest since
they were issued in April after being negative as recently as
Sept. 27.  Yields on three-year notes rose four basis points to 0.68
percent as the U.S. sold $30 billion of the debt in the first
auction of coupon securities since the government shutdown.  “This uncertainty in Washington is causing troubles in the
market, mostly in the front end, on whether issues maturing
around that time will be paid off,” said  Ray Remy , head of
fixed income in New York at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc.,
one of 21 primary dealers obligated to bid at Treasury auctions.
“The three-year sector has gotten cheaper as the week has gone
on.”  Yield Watch  While rates more than doubled on one-month bills, today’s
increase pales in comparison with historical moves. Rates surged
39 basis points to 0.45 percent on Oct. 21, 2008, when the Fed
invoked emergency authority and agreed to provide up to $540
billion in loans to help relieve pressure on money-market mutual
funds beset by redemptions.  One-month bill rates averaged 2.47 percent in the decade
before the Fed reduced its target rate for overnight loans
between banks to a range of zero to 0.25 percent in December
2008.  The  S&P 500 (AA)  has tumbled 2.1 percent this week, its biggest
two-day loss since June. Alcoa, the largest American aluminum
producer, jumped 1.9 percent in extended trading at 4:16 p.m.
New York time. The company reported adjusted earnings of 11
cents a share, topping the average estimate of analysts for 5
cents, amid higher profit from a division that turns the metal
into auto and aerospace parts. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells
Fargo & Co . will also report this week.  Earnings Season  Profits for the  S&P 500  probably increased 1.7 percent
during the third quarter while sales rose 2.2 percent, according
to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts
anticipate earnings growth to accelerate to 8.9 percent in the
final three months of the year, the data show.  Facebook Inc. and TripAdvisor Inc. dropped 6.7 percent and
5.5 percent respectively in regular trading. The Nasdaq Internet
Index tumbled 4.1 percent, its biggest decline since November
2011, as all 81 of its companies dropped. The gauge had surged
49 percent this year through yesterday, almost triple the gain
in the S&P 500.  “Investors are locking in gains on any stocks that have
dramatically outperformed this year,” Ian Winer, director of
equity trading at Wedbush Securities Inc., said in an interview.
“I just think guys are looking at their portfolios and saying,
‘These are up huge, maybe I sell some to lock in some gains and
revisit post debt-ceiling resolution.’”  U.S. Movers  Xerox Corp. slid 2.5 percent after announcing the U.S. has
been probing the accounting practices of its outsourcing
division. J.C. Penney & Co. climbed 0.8 percent, halting a
seven-day slide and rebounding from the lowest price since 1982,
as the retailer said its sales decline slowed in September.  Stocks with the highest short interest were among the
market’s biggest losers. A Goldman Sachs  basket of stocks  with
the most bearish bets against them slid 2.3 percent, paring its
rally in 2013 to 35 percent.  The CBOE Volatility Index, the gauge of S&P 500 options
prices known as  the VIX , jumped 4.8 percent today to 20.34, the
highest closing level since June 20, after a 16 percent surge
yesterday.  From its intraday low of 12.52 on Sept. 30, the VIX jumped
68 percent to its highest level of today, 21.01. That’s the
fifth time in 2013 that the index climbed more than 50 percent
from trough to peak, according to data compiled by Bespoke
Investment Group and Bloomberg. The gauge of options prices
remains almost 58 percent below its 2011 high, the data show.  ‘Plumbing System’  Even as the probability of a U.S. government default is
“very, very small,” volatility in the markets will increase in
coming days, Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer and co-chief investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co. A
U.S. default on its debt obligations would prove more
unpredictable to financial markets than the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holding Inc., he said.  “What frightens us the most is what happens to the
plumbing system of the global-financial system,” El-Erian said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “You will have cascading
failure, multiple defaults, and Treasuries that act as
collateral would be very difficult to exchange and people will
simply step back. It will be like Lehman, but more
unpredictable.”  ‘Little Stretched’  Garry Evans , global head of equity strategy at HSBC
Holdings Plc, cut his recommendation on U.S. equities to neutral
from overweight, saying valuations are “a little stretched.”
He advised investors to increase holdings in emerging markets
because growth in China is stabilizing and stocks are cheap.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose to the highest level
since Sept. 24 in intraday trading before paring. India’s S&P
BSE Sensex increased 0.4 percent as central bank Governor
Raghuram Rajan scaled back emergency steps taken to boost the
currency, cutting the marginal standing facility. Russia’s Micex
Index jumped 1.7 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 1.1 percent on the first
day of trading after a week-long holiday and the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index in Hong Kong increased 1 percent. China’s
retail and catering combined sales grew 14 percent during the
holiday, according to a statement posted on the website of the
Commerce Ministry. The  yuan  advanced by the most in almost two
months as the central bank raised the currency’s reference rate
to a record.  European Shares  Three shares fell for each that gained in the Stoxx 600 as
trading volumes were 9.2 percent higher than the 30-day average,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. German factory orders
unexpectedly declined in August, a government report showed
today  TGS Nopec Geophysical ASA (TGS)  tumbled 15 percent as Norway’s
largest surveyor of underwater oil and gas fields cut its
revenue forecast. Rival Petroleum Geo-Services ASA slid 7.5
percent. Getinge AB retreated 10 percent as the Swedish maker of
sterilization systems said third-quarter profit missed analysts’
estimates.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA, Italy’s third-biggest
bank, rose 1.7 percent after pledging to cut an additional 3,360
jobs and increase capital to win support from the European Union
for 4.1 billion euros ($5.6 billion) in state aid.  Global Bonds  Spanish bonds declined for a second day as the Financial
Times reported that the European Banking Authority may penalize
banks that rely on cash from the  European Central Bank ’s longer-term refinancing operations for funding. The  10-year yield  rose
nine basis points to 4.30 percent while the rate on similar-maturity Italian debt climbed five basis points to 4.35 percent.  Bonds extended declines after Spain said it planned to sell
a new bond maturing in 2044 via banks in the near future and
Italy’s Finance Ministry said it planned to offer a seven-year
note via banks.  Japan must consider the impact of any default on its bond
holdings, even as the U.S. will probably avoid a fiscal crisis,
Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso said today in Tokyo. Chinese
Deputy Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said yesterday that the
U.S. should prevent a default, the People’s Daily reported.  The yen weakened against 13 of its 16 major peers after
reaching 96.57 per dollar earlier today, its strongest level
since August. The Japanese currency dropped most against the
currencies of Taiwan,  South Africa  and Australia. It fell 0.2
percent to 131.64 per euro.  Implied volatility on the dollar against the yen fell to a
nine-month low, a sign investors are confident in a resolution
to U.S. debt-ceiling talks, according to Westpac Banking Corp.
One-week implied volatility was at 9.40 percent, the lowest
since Jan. 8. It’s averaged 13.3 percent this year.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities advanced 0.4 percent.
WTI oil rose 0.5 percent to $103.49 a barrel. Gold for December
delivery slipped less than 0.1 percent at $1,324.60 an ounce
after retreating more than 0.7 percent earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  