-- Tea Party’s Strategy Is a Proven Loser
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-10-07T19:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/tea-party-s-strategy-is-a-proven-loser.html
In any negotiation, it is inadvisable
to make threats that aren’t credible. Probably the only thing
worse is to threaten actions that will end up helping the other
side. Yet the Tea Party-affiliated  House Republicans  aren’t
simply making this very mistake with the government shutdown;
they are gearing up to do it again, on a grander and more fatal
scale, with the debt ceiling.  Much as Arthur Scargill, leader of the U.K.’s National
Union of Mineworkers, did in the 1980s, the  Tea Party  today
appears to have a political death wish. Scargill ended up giving
Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  exactly what she wanted -- a
protracted confrontation in which he came across as an
extremist, eroding any popular support for the miners. Scargill
got a great deal of national attention, but the miners ended up
with very little, if anything. They had some legitimate
grievances, but their attempt to force a democratic government
into full capitulation didn’t play well.  In the end, the miners were a minority of a minority
(unionized workers). Their demands were perceived as extreme and
extremely unreasonable. Tea Party Republicans seem determined to
head the same way.  The government shutdown has become a farce. Late last week,
House Republicans supported a measure that promises full back
pay to all government employees once funding is officially
restored. President  Barack Obama  accepted this deal with
alacrity (though it hasn’t passed the Senate), so now the
government and its services are shut down, without any likely
cost savings. This is a strategy of pure pointless irritation
and self-inflicted international humiliation. It also worsens
the  budget deficit .  Disappointed Animals  The  Smithsonian’s National Zoo , for example, is one of the
world’s leading organizations for the preservation of and
education about animals. It is now closed -- though all the
animals remain fully cared for -- because “nonessential”
personnel aren’t allowed to work. If the shutdown persists
through Halloween, the zoo will have to cancel one of its most
successful fundraising events, Boo at the Zoo. So the zoo’s
expenses remain about the same, but the public can’t see the
animals, and the zoo’s efforts to raise money are imperiled.
This is stupid economics and idiotic politics.  Naturally, each side blames the other for the shutdown. But
just as when Scargill sought to blame Thatcher for provoking a
big strike in 1984-85, you can believe whatever you want -- it’s
the dynamics of public opinion over time that matter. As long as
Scargill’s members remained on strike, the dislocation to the
economy grew, and the miners became less sympathetic.  In two months, the  Affordable Care Act  will be firmly in
place, because individuals who need insurance will have signed
up through exchanges. Do the Republicans really propose to strip
those people of coverage? Even if they are successful in
dissuading or otherwise preventing healthy young people from
signing up, that tactic will just increase the costs of running
the system. In this context, the looming confrontation over the
debt ceiling really promises to do in the Tea Party.  Let’s assume the threat is credible, and the Tea Party
really would push the U.S. government to renege on its promises,
to bondholders or Social Security recipients or other people
with contractual payment commitments. There are two
possibilities.  One would occur if the Tea Party and House Speaker  John Boehner  have the ability to force a full default of some kind.
The blow to private enterprise would be so colossal it would
take us a generation to recover. Anyone who complains about what
happened with the expansion of federal government during the New
Deal in the 1930s should think some more about this scenario and
what it implies about the opportunity to enlarge the mandate of
government.  Troubled Markets  Or, in a second scenario, the House Republicans bring about
some form of partial, mixed  quasi-default , creating tremendous
uncertainty and undermining the important stabilizing role of a
well-run federal government in the modern economy. If this
continues in on-off fashion for months, the results will be even
worse.  It is commonly supposed that Republicans won’t experience
public blowback because the House has become so polarized as a
result of gerrymandering. But Senate and presidential elections
cannot be fixed in this way. Among other things, the strategy of
establishing conservative control over the  Supreme Court  seems
likely to go out the window. Moderate Republicans such as
Representative Charlie Dent of  Pennsylvania  have it  right :
theirs doesn’t look much like the party of responsible
government.  Scargill and his tactics still have adherents, but not
many. Thatcher won the election that followed the strikes, in
1987, and her  Conservative Party  stayed in power until 1997.
 Tony Blair  eventually led the  Labour Party  to victory, but only
by embracing many of Thatcher’s ideas. Perhaps the Republicans
plan to blame Obama for any negative outcomes. They should check
with Scargill on the electoral appeal of that approach.  (Simon Johnson, a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management  as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is  co-author  of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Simon Johnson  at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 