-- Severe Storms Forecast for New York City Disrupt Travel
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-10-07T18:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/heavy-rain-forecast-for-new-york-city.html
Heavy rain, gusty winds and possibly
isolated tornadoes will sweep across  New York  City and the U.S.
Northeast today, disrupting  air travel , forecasters said.  The main threat will be winds of 30 to 40 miles (48 to 64
kilometers) per hour and heavy rain, said Gary Best, a
meteorologist at  Hometown Forecast Services  Inc. in Nashua, New
Hampshire. The storms will probably reach New York between 3
p.m. and 4 p.m., he said. An inch (2.5 centimeters) an hour of
rain may fall in  New York City , causing minor flooding,
according to the  National Weather Service .  “I strongly encourage all New Yorkers to take extra
precautions and stay tuned to local media reports for the latest
information on today’s storms,” New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
said in a statement.  A tornado watch, meaning the storms are possible, stretches
from upstate New York to northern Virginia, including New York
City and Philadelphia, until 5 p.m. according to the National
Weather Service.  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) , the biggest domestic carrier at New
York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport, told travelers
today on its website that service may be delayed across 10
airports in the northeastern U.S., from Boston to Washington.
 Air Canada (AC/B) , that country’s largest airline, waived rebooking
fees for passengers traveling to and from seven New England
airports.  Airport Delays  Delays rippled out from airports along the East Coast. By 1
p.m., flights departing Ronald Regan Washington National Airport
were delayed as long as 90 minutes, according to industry data
compiler  FlightAware.com , while arrivals were running more than
40 minutes late at New York’s LaGuardia Airport and JFK.  “This is the time of the year when the weather can get a
little violent, and if everything gels together just right, you
get these situations,” Best said by telephone. “The conditions
are ripe for a couple of isolated tornadoes and, if it does
occur, it will be mainly this afternoon.”  A severe thunderstorm warning has been issued for just east
of Utica, New York south into northeastern  Pennsylvania ,
according to the weather service. Wind gusts in excess of 60 mph
are possible.  Cuomo told New York residents to heed storm warnings, avoid
flooded streets and tie down lawn furniture and other objects
that could be hurled by gusting winds.  Weather Conditions  “Weather conditions can change with little warning, so it
is important that New Yorkers take appropriate measures to
ensure their preparation and safety throughout severe weather
events,” he said.  The clash of cold air moving into the U.S. Northeast from
the west and a pocket of warm and humid air already there will
set up just the right conditions for rain, thunderstorms and
maybe an isolated tornado, said Mark Paquette, a meteorologist
at  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania.  “It should cause some major headaches,” Paquette said by
telephone. “Anytime you have winds, there will be delays, and
not only that, but there will be blinding downpours, so
certainly expect delays and possibly shutdowns.”  Eastern Pennsylvania, northwestern  New Jersey  and the lower
Hudson Valley as well as the Catskills have a 5 percent chance
of experiencing the destructive storms, according to the U.S.
 Storm Prediction Center  in Norman,  Oklahoma . Elsewhere in the
Northeast, the odds of a tornado forming are about 2 percent.  Power Outages  Several trees have already been reported knocked over by
winds from the front in Pennsylvania and Virginia, according to
the storm center. About 4,389 electric customers in both states
have lost power, including 1,600 in Richmond, according to
utilities.  Paquette said the weather pattern reminds him more of
something that would happen in August or July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  