-- ECB Asset-Quality Review to Restore Confidence, Knot Says
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-10-07T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/ecb-asset-quality-review-to-restore-confidence-knot-says.html
A credible and firm asset-quality
review of euro-area lenders will restore confidence in the
European banking sector, including the Netherlands, Dutch
Central Bank President Klaas Knot said.  “The upcoming European Asset-Quality Review, if executed
well, will help restore the balance sheets of Dutch banks,”
Klaas Knot, who also sits on the  European Central Bank ’s
governing council, said at a press conference in Amsterdam 
today before the publication of its semi-annual financial 
stability report. “Growing confidence strengthens the 
possibility to raise additional capital.”  The European Central Bank is slated to take over
supervision of all euro-area banks next year, after a transition
period in which the ECB will assess the quality of banks’ assets
and their resilience to shocks. Euro-area nations now are
debating what kind of financing options need to be in place to
head off contagion from capital shortfalls that are uncovered.  The European Union’s financial-services chief,  Michel Barnier , has proposed a Single Resolution Mechanism that would
have a central fund handle the costs of failing banks and give
decision-making authority on resolution decisions to the
Brussels-based European Commission.  Germany  has led objections
to the proposed fund and also the commission’s proposed powers.  Public Backstop  The bank reviews are the final opportunity to restore
confidence in the region’s financial system, ECB Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen said last month.  Europe ’s lenders have
undergone two stress tests since 2010, with eight banks failing
the last round conducted by the European Banking Authority in
2011 with a combined capital shortfall of 2.5 billion euros
($3.4 billion).  Belgium ’s Dexia SA was among banks that passed
only to be wound down.  “As part of the balance sheet assessment a public backstop
is necessary,” Knot said. “Only as a last resort and under
firm conditions, in line with the European propositions for a
bail-in.”  Knot also said countries should show more explicitly where
the backstop comes from and the size of the financial means
governments have reserved for their banks.  Former  ING Groep NV (INGA)  Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen, who
stepped down from his post Oct. 1, questioned how banks will
raise capital should they fail a continent-wide  stress test .
“The question for me is: who is going to provide that
capital,” Hommen said in a Sept. 20 interview.  Dutch Economy  While Dutch banks are on their way to meet Basel III
capital requirements, risks remain because of the country’s weak
economic recovery, Knot said.  “Rising unemployment and a growing number of bankruptcies
lead to more credit risks for Dutch banks and higher provisions
for future losses pressure profitability,” it said. In 2012,
the core capital ratio of Dutch banks increased to 11.5 percent
from 9.5 percent a year earlier, according to the report.  The pace of economic contraction in the Netherlands, which
is in its  third recession  in five years, is slowing. Gross
domestic product fell 0.1 percent in the second quarter after
declining 0.4 percent in the three months through March.  “I’m reasonably optimistic about the Dutch economy,” Knot
said today. “I expect the economy to be out of the recession in
the third quarter.”  The government’s planning agency CPB predicts the economy
will contract 1.25 percent this year and grow 0.5 percent in
2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  