-- ECB's Asmussen Says Euro Woes Won’t Dominate IMF Talks
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-10-07T12:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/ecb-s-asmussen-says-euro-woes-won-t-dominate-imf-talks.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen said the euro-area financial crisis will
no longer dominate international talks this week in  Washington 
the way they did as little as a year ago.  Japan’s economic situation, fiscal and monetary policies in
the U.S. and slowing growth in some emerging economies will also
be among the main topics to be discussed at the annual meeting
of the  International Monetary Fund  and gatherings of finance
ministers and central bank governors of the 20 biggest
economies, Asmussen said in a speech in Potsdam, Germany.  “Our partners globally acknowledge that we have made
progress in  Europe , in the  euro zone , in the last 18-24
months,” the former Germany deputy finance minister said.
months,” Asmussen said. “It is no longer the crisis in some
euro-zone countries that will be the focus of discussions in
Washington.”  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  in an Oct. 3 speech
said it’s “mission-critical” for the U.S. to raise its $16.7
trillion debt ceiling, warning policy makers that failure to do
so would seriously hurt the country and the world.  Net capital inflows in security investments of around 100
billion euros ($136 billion) in the last 12 months show that
investors are returning to the euro area, Asmussen said.
Notably, U.S. investors are buying peripheral countries’ bonds
with long maturities again, he said.  The share of Spanish debt held by non-Spanish investors has
increased to about 35 percent, Asmussen said, a “clear
increase” over the last 12 months. The portion of European
shares that’s overweighted at some investment funds is at the
highest in six years, he said.  “Investors are returning to Europe because they have
confidence in the  crisis management , in the changes we’ve
applied in the euro zone,” Asmussen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  