-- Economic Boom Periods Curb Men’s Lives, Study Finds
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-10-07T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/economic-boom-periods-curb-men-s-lives-in-puzzling-interaction.html
A booming economy doesn’t only bring
good news.  Death rates among middle aged and older people -- men
especially -- turn out to be higher in periods of expansion,
according to a study  published  today in the Journal of
Epidemiology and  Community Health .  The Dutch study’s authors compared official statistics for
gross domestic product and mortality rates in 19 developed
countries, including the U.S., the U.K.,  Japan  and  Australia ,
between 1950 and 2008. They found that mortality increased 0.4
percent in men aged 70 to 74 with every 1 percent gain in GDP.
The same was true for men aged 40 to 44.  “In times of economic turmoil and population ageing,
further exploration of the effects the economic environment can
have on the well-being of older people is of great importance,”
wrote the scientists, led by  Herbert Rolden  of the  Leyden
Academy  on Vitality and Ageing in The Netherlands.  More research may be needed in part to explain the link
between mortality and growth. Because the study contained both
middle-aged and retirement-age subjects, the scientists said
they could rule out a number of obvious connections.  “Traditional explanations such as work-stress and traffic
accidents cannot explain our findings,” they wrote.  Similarly, an increase in pollution due to heavier traffic
during expansion times should have the same impact on men and
women. And the researchers found a more tenuous connection for
females, with a 0.2 percent increase in mortality for every 1
percent GDP gain.  It’s possible that people who are active and employed may
face more work demands and have less time left to offer social
support and informal care to their older relatives during good
economic times, the authors speculated.  Life expectancy  in the U.S. is 79 years for a child born in
2011,  according  to the  World Bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  