-- Hedge Funds Expand Bets With Most Junk Since ’08: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-10-07T16:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/hedge-funds-expand-bets-with-most-junk-since-08-credit-markets.html
Hedge funds have amassed the greatest
share of the $1.2 trillion U.S. junk- bond market  since the
credit crisis, raising concern bets with borrowed cash will
accelerate losses when the  Federal Reserve  stops printing record
amounts of money.  The funds, which typically use leverage to bolster returns,
hold as much as 23 percent of outstanding dollar-denominated
high-yield bonds, from as much as 18 percent last year and the
highest since 2008, according to Barclays Plc. Credit hedge
funds have boosted assets by 89 percent since 2008, outpacing
the 66 percent growth of the junk market, data from Hedge Fund
Research Inc. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Funds that use leverage may threaten the financial system
in a broader selloff, the U.S. Treasury Dept.’s Office of
Financial Research wrote in a report gauging risks from
investment firms that have ballooned after five years of central
bank stimulus. Sophisticated investors including hedge funds
were among the first to exit as the market started to fracture
in 2008, when a collapse in U.S. property values triggered the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to the
Sept. 30 study.  “Any time leverage is involved it’ll exacerbate swings in
the market,” said Marc Gross, a  money manager  at RS Investments
in  New York  who oversees $3.5 billion. If a mass exodus is
triggered, “they’ll all be selling and they’ll be selling with
leverage.”  Junk Losses  The Bank of America U.S. High Yield Index plunged 2.6
percent in June, more than stocks and Treasuries, after Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank could start
slowing its $85 billion of monthly asset purchases if the
economy showed sustained improvement. In the four years before
then, the debt posted average annual returns of 16.1 percent as
buyers sought a reprieve from record-low bond yields.  Even as funds that use borrowed money grab a bigger
proportion of the market, leverage in the system is less than it
was leading up to the crisis as banks boost debt-to-equity
ratios. Credit hedge funds are also, on average, using less
leverage, according to Barclays’s Bradley Rogoff.  Hedge funds may, in some cases, be acting as buffers
against price swings fueled by redemptions from mutual and
exchange-traded funds, helping to fill a void left by banks that
have reduced holdings of riskier assets in the face of new
regulations, according to Gross.  ‘Good Thing’  “In theory, having a more diverse group of investors is a
good thing and enhances liquidity because there’s more of a
chance that one group is buying as one group is selling,” said
 Martin Fridson , chief executive officer of New York-based
FridsonVision LLC, a research firm specializing in high-yield
debt. “But it’s hard to make the case that it’s going to help
stabilize the markets when bonds start to really sell off.”  Hedge funds’ share of the speculative-grade bond market has
grown 5 percentage points from last year to include as much as
$290 billion of  junk bonds , Barclays strategists led by Jeffrey Meli and Bradley Rogoff wrote in a Sept. 26 report. The 17
percent to 23 percent of the market that hedge funds own this
year compares with 12 percent to 18 percent in both 2012 and
2011, according to Barclays data that doesn’t go back further
than those years.  ETF Share  In the past year, the proportion of junk notes outstanding
owned by U.S. mutual funds and ETFs declined about 9 percent, or
$21 billion, to a maximum of $240 billion, the analysts said in
the report. Assets owned by high-yield closed-end funds, which
also typically buy with borrowed money to boost returns, doubled
to about $14 billion this year, “partly in response to a desire
for leverage in a low yield environment,” the Barclays
strategists said.  Yields (USGG10YR)  on speculative-grade bonds, graded below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s , plunged to an all-time low of 5.98 percent on May 9,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. They’ve risen to
6.7 percent as the Fed considers slowing stimulus that’s helped
expand the central bank’s  balance sheet  by $2.75 trillion since
Lehman filed for bankruptcy in September 2008.  Hedge funds “have moved where the yields are, even if
those yields are historically relatively low,” said Edward Altman, a finance professor at  New York University  who created
the Z-score formula for measuring bankruptcy risk. “They’re
still a good deal higher than the very low yields on”
investment-grade bonds and Treasuries, he said.  Fed Stimulus  Credit  hedge funds  have received $113.3 billion of deposits
since 2009 and boosted assets under management to $648.3 billion
as of June 30, according to data from Chicago, Illinois-based
HFR. That contrasts with the two years ended Dec. 31, 2009, when
investors yanked $86.65 billion from the funds as the world’s
biggest economy sunk into recession.  To spur economic growth, the Fed embarked on an
unprecedented program of keeping benchmark  interest rates  at
about zero and buying Treasuries and mortgage debt, pushing
investors to seek higher yields by buying riskier investments.  Investors from retirees to private-equity firms piled into
the riskiest company bonds, allowing borrowers to sell $1.35
trillion of dollar-denominated speculative-grade bonds since
2008, boosting the market to $1.2 trillion from $727.6 billion,
Bloomberg and Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
Relative yields on the notes have dropped to 475 basis points
from as high as 2,182 basis points in December 2008.  ‘Herding Behavior’  When investment managers crowd into similar assets at the
same time, especially those that aren’t frequently traded, the
behavior may “create adverse market impacts if financial shocks
trigger a reversal of the herding behavior,” the Treasury said
in its report last week. Leverage can also increase the risk of
systemic shock, it said.  At the same time, fund managers who are able to buy
securities trading “significantly below their intrinsic
values” could help stabilize price declines, according to the
study.  The 21  primary dealers  that do business with the Fed
reduced their corporate-debt inventories by 76 percent through
March from the peak in October 2007 as they faced higher  capital
requirements  set by the 27-nation  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  and risk-curbing rules laid out by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act in the U.S.  Bank Leverage  The average ratio of tangible assets to tangible equity for
the six-biggest U.S. banks, a measure of leverage, dropped to
12.8 in June from 27.5 at the end of 2007, Bloomberg data show.  When investors pull money for illogical reasons, “it’s as
if we’re sitting at a poker table and a drunk businessman walks
into the casino and sits at our table,” Steve Kuhn, whose Pine
River Fixed Income Fund was the second-best performing hedge
fund last year, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on Oct.
3. “That’s a good day for you, when people are making decisions
for less than logical reasons, and you can sit there and calmly
try to decide what true value is.”  While excesses in the market aren’t as troubling as they
were before the financial crisis, “we’re going in that
direction,” Oaktree Capital Management LP Chairman  Howard Marks 
said in a Bloomberg Television interview on Sept. 7.  If Treasury yields rise high enough, people will rotate
into the government debt and safer securities as they “wouldn’t
have to take the pain of investing in low-quality instruments,”
he said.  Liquidity Threat  Yields on 10-year Treasuries rose as high as 2.99 percent
on Sept. 5 from a record low of 1.38 percent on July 24, 2012.
They’ve dropped to 2.65 percent after the Fed surprised
investors on Sept. 18 by maintaining its monthly purchases.  The central bank will now take the first step in reducing
its bond purchases in December, according to 59 percent of 41
economists in a Sept. 18-19 Bloomberg survey.  “The biggest potential threat is liquidity,” Joseph Engelhard, a former Treasury Department official who is now
senior vice president at Capital Alpha Partners LLC in
 Washington , said in a telephone interview. “If all the hedge
funds try to get out, who’s going to be buying?”  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Neiman Marcus  Group Inc. is
planning to sell $1.56 billion of debt to help finance the
luxury retailer’s buyout by Ares Management LLC and the Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board. The cost to protect against
losses on corporate bonds in the U.S. and  Europe  rose as U.S.
lawmakers remained deadlocked on extending the nation’s debt
limit to avoid a default by the world’s largest borrower.  Global Spreads  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 1.3
basis points to 80.9 basis points as of 12:10 p.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  In London, the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings increased 1 basis point to 98.1.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 4.5 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The New
York-based telephone carrier raised $49 billion on Sept. 11 in
the largest corporate  bond issue  ever.  Dallas-based Neiman Marcus plans to sell $960 million of
eight-year senior notes and $600 million of payment-in-kind
toggle notes due in 2021, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Payment-in-kind borrowings
allow the issuer to pay interest with additional debt.  Moody’s Investors Service assigned a Caa2 rating to Neiman
Marcus’s planned notes and downgraded the company’s corporate
family rating to B3 from B2, citing increased debt from
financing the deal, the credit grader said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  