-- Hedge-Fund Manager Saiers Offers Banksy $100,000 for Sandy Help
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-10-07T15:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/hedge-fund-manager-saiers-offers-banksy-100-000-for-sandy-help.html
Volatility hedge-fund manager Nelson Saiers wants to make a $100,000 trade with Banksy, the British
graffiti artist.  Saiers, chief investment officer of Saiers Capital LLC, has
offered the money to the  Hurricane Sandy  rebuilding effort if
Banksy uses one of his wall murals to raise awareness for people
still affected by the storm. Unsolicited works from Banksy, who
keeps his identity secret to avoid prosecution for graffiti, are
appearing on New York City streets as part of a  show  during
October.  “There remain a number of victims who are still severely
impacted by this disaster,” Saiers, who manages about $660
million at his New York-based firm, wrote on the website
 heybanksy.com , which he set up to establish contact with the
artist. Saiers declined to comment for this story.  The timing of the show coincides with the anniversary of
Hurricane Sandy, which slammed into New York and  New Jersey  in
late October of last year. The storm killed at least 159 people
and damaged or destroyed more than 650,000 homes in the U.S.,
according to a  federal task force  report on Aug. 19.  A canvas by Banksy, a Bristol, England-born artist, sold
for a record $1.9 million at auction in February 2008. In that
same year, he introduced an authentication service, Pest
Control, intended to regulate the market for his paintings and
street murals.  Saiers, who earned his doctorate in math from the
 University of Virginia  in Charlottesville at 23, said his offer
is conditional on Banksy performing within the law and with
respect for personal property rights.  The Musical  “We are happy to assist in the identification and
provision of a canvas,” Saiers, 38, wrote on his website.  The New York works by Banksy documented on his website are
mostly additions to existing graffiti on walls in Manhattan and
Brooklyn, including one with the word “Occupy!” in which the
artist had updated with “The Musical.”  Saiers’s firm uses derivatives including options to bet
that volatility levels for stocks and other assets worldwide are
too high or low in relation to each other. The HFRX RV
Volatility Index, which tracks funds that bet on stock swings,
was up 2.4 percent this year through the end of August. That
 compares  with a 15 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index in the period.  Volatility Fund  The  money manager  was a managing director for proprietary
derivatives trading at Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest
lender, before joining Alphabet Management LLC in 2010. He took
the role of chief investment officer earlier this year and the
firm was renamed Saiers Capital. The volatility hedge fund
returned 27 percent between July 2010 and December 2012, Saiers
said at the time.  Wall Street and local artists have also joined efforts to
facilitate the rebuilding. New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
announced in July a $1 million donation from Jon Bon Jovi to the
Hurricane Sandy relief fund in the rock star’s home state.  Bruce Springsteen , another New Jersey native, Staten Island-born
Christina Aguilera and Long Islander  Billy Joel  performed with
Jovi in an NBC television benefit last year.  Millions of dollars in contributions and loans to small
businesses came in the aftermath of Sandy’s destruction from
institutions such as Jefferies Group Inc., the New York-based
investment-banking firm,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  as well as the
 Robin Hood Foundation , the poverty-fighting charity supported
largely by Wall Street donors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  