-- Telecom Italia May Be Cut to Junk by S&P After Chief Quits
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-10-08T16:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/telecom-italia-may-be-cut-to-junk-by-s-p-after-ceo-resignation.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s debt will
probably be cut to junk by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited the
phone company’s uncertain strategic direction after the
resignation of Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe.  A reduction of the BBB- long-term rating, the lowest
investment grade, to BB+ “appears the more likely outcome”
after S&P completes a review by the end of November, it said
yesterday. S&P joined Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings to signal the possibility of a downgrade for Milan-based
Telecom Italia, which reported adjusted net debt of 28.8 billion
euros ($39 billion) as of June 30.  Bernabe’s departure last week followed a dispute over ways
to boost Telecom Italia’s finances with shareholders including
Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF) , which first bought a stake in its
Italian counterpart six years ago and tightened its grip last
month. A Telecom Italia board meeting on Oct. 3, which put Chief
Operating Officer Marco Patuano in charge of the carrier, failed
to come up with recommendations on how to reduce debt.  “S&P has just substantially weakened TI’s credit profile
with this move, in our view, given two junk ratings are now
considered very possible,”  Roger Appleyard , head of global
credit research at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London , wrote in a
note. The likelihood of Telecom Italia bonds leaving indexes
weighted with only investment-grade bonds and the corresponding
“forced selling is now much greater.”  Brazil Sale?  Telefonica is in favor of a sale of Telecom Italia’s
Brazilian unit  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) , which has a market value of
$12 billion, people familiar with the matter have said. Bernabe
had been against a sale of Latin American assets and preferred a
capital increase and a spinoff of Telecom Italia’s fixed-line
network.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  isn’t interested in bidding for Tim,
said a person with direct knowledge of the company, refuting
speculation that the U.K. carrier might make an offer. The
person asked not to be identified because the deliberations are
private. Patuano plans to propose to the board Nov. 7 turnaround
measures, which will likely include recommendations on the
future of Telecom Italia’s Latin American assets.  The carrier “is suffering increasing management and
governance weakness,” S&P said in a statement. “The group has
limited possibilities of accelerating debt reduction or
stabilizing its operating performance over the near term.”  Fewer Options  A spokesman for Telecom Italia declined to comment on S&P’s
statement.  Moody’s said in early August that it may cut Telecom
Italia’s debt to junk. The rating company gave the carrier three
months to come up with measures to strengthen its balance sheet,
a person familiar with the matter said at the time. Fitch said
last week Bernabe’s departure reduced the number of options for
Telecom Italia because it also removed the likelihood of a large
capital increase.  Credit-default swaps on Telecom Italia rose to an 11-month
high of 400 basis points on Aug. 5 from 248 basis points in May
and cost 356 basis points as of 5:41 p.m. in London, Bloomberg
data show.  Based on yesterday’s prices, the swaps imply a B1 rating,
four steps below investment grade, according to Moody’s
Analytics. The derivatives pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreement and an increase
signals deterioration in perceptions of  credit quality .  BlackRock, Sawiris  Telecom Italia fell 1.8 percent to 61.7 cents in Milan,
valuing the company at 11.3 billion euros. The stock is down 9.7
percent this year and is headed for the ninth consecutive annual
decline.  Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , whose bid to acquire a
stake in Telecom Italia was rebuffed by the company last year,
increased his short position to about 1.2 percent of the
capital, according to a regulatory  filing . In September, Telecom
Italia had renewed contact with Sawiris, people familiar with
the matter said at the time.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager, has
increased its  holding  in Telecom Italia to about 5.1 percent, a
separate filing dated yesterday showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  