-- Emerging Stocks Retreat With Currencies on U.S. Deadlock
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-10-07T20:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/emerging-stocks-snap-four-day-gain-on-u-s-debt-limit-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks declined for
the first time in five days as U.S. lawmakers remained
deadlocked over extending the debt limit to avoid default,
intensifying concern that global economic growth will falter.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.3 percent to
1,004.66.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  plunged to a
record low in  Sao Paulo  as two people with knowledge of the
matter said the oil producer is considering filing for
 bankruptcy protection  within a month. India’s rupee snapped a
three-day gain. Polish yields sank to an eight-week low on bets
Zyta Gilowska’s successor on the central bank’s rate-setting
panel will be reluctant to tighten monetary policy in 2014.  Stocks declined as investors sought the safety of
Treasuries after U.S. Speaker  John Boehner  said the country may
end up in default if President  Barack Obama  doesn’t negotiate
over the budget. Failure by the world’s largest borrower to pay
its debt may throw the world into a recession that probably
would become a depression. The government stopped providing
nonessential services last week after lawmakers failed to agree
on a spending package, boosting speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will refrain from reducing its stimulus program this year.  “If the U.S. defaults, all bets are off because there are
so many unintended consequences,” Bill Strazzullo, the chief
market strategist at Bell Curve Trading, a research firm in
Freehold,  New Jersey , said in a phone interview. “It would be
the financial market equivalent of a nuclear strike. It would
make Lehman look minuscule and the trillions of dollars of
securities that are priced to U.S. Treasuries would make this
absolutely inconceivable as to the global effect.’”  Commodity Shares  Eight out of 10 groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
retreated today, led by phone and commodity shares. The
benchmark measure for developing nations has dropped 4.8 percent
this year to trade at 10.5 times projected earnings, compared
with the  valuation  of 13.8 for the MSCI World Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund slipped 0.9 percent to $41.75. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
surged 11 percent to 27.11.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  declined as OGX tumbled 13 percent. A
bankruptcy filing would be carried out in  Rio de Janeiro , where
the company is based, said the two people familiar with the
matter, asking not to be identified.  Russia, Poland  The Micex Index rose for a third day as OAO Magnit, the
nation’s largest food retailer, rallied 2.7 percent. Benchmark
gauges in  Poland ,  Hungary  and  Turkey  retreated. The yields on
Poland’s two-year government bonds dropped four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 3.01 percent at 4:47 p.m. in Warsaw,
the lowest since Aug. 13.  Indian (SENSEX)  software exporters and drugmakers climbed amid
speculation their quarterly earnings will beat analyst estimates
as a weak currency helps increase the value of their repatriated
profits.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  rose to a record. The
benchmark S&P BSE Sensex lost 0.1 percent, after slumping as
much as 1.4 percent earlier today. The rupee dropped 0.6 percent
to 61.7950 per dollar in Mumbai, according to prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , also known as the H-share index, declined 0.9 percent. Mainland markets are shut
until tomorrow.  Techtronic Industries Co. (669) , a maker of power
tools that gets 73 percent of sales from  North America , slid 2
percent. Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore oil explorer, fell
1.1 percent as crude oil dropped.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries declined two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 332 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in  New York  at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  