-- English Says New Zealand Dollar Exchange Rate Still Too High
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-10-07T03:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/english-says-new-zealand-dollar-exchange-rate-still-too-high.html
New Zealand Finance Minister  Bill English  said the nation’s currency remains too strong and is
hampering exports.  “The  exchange rate , in our view, is still too high,”
English said in Wellington today after the Treasury published
financial statements for the year through June. “It remains a
headwind for the export sector.”  The local dollar has gained 7 percent against the greenback
since Aug. 30 after the U.S. Federal Reserve refrained from
tapering its stimulus. New Zealand’s currency is also being
boosted by accelerating economic growth and the prospect of
higher  interest rates .  The  New Zealand dollar  was at 82.95 U.S cents at 4:08 p.m.
in Wellington, from 82.99 cents before the financial statements
were released.  English said if growth reaches 3.5 percent next year, as
forecast by the  Reserve Bank , “it would make New Zealand one of
the fastest-growing economies” in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. A booming housing market also poses
a risk to exporters because that may drive up interest rates, he
said.  New Zealand’s budget deficit is narrowing faster than
forecast and English said the government remains on track to
return to surplus in the year to June 2015.  The operating balance before gains and losses, known as
OBEGAL, was a deficit of NZ$4.4 billion ($3.7 billion) in the
2013 fiscal year. That’s down from a NZ$9.2 billion deficit in
2012 and the 2013 budget forecast for a NZ$6.3 billion
shortfall.  English said the deficit would probably halve again this
year, though reaching surplus ahead of schedule was unlikely.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  