-- Mentor of 9/11 Mastermind Among Candidates for Afghan President
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-10-07T10:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/mentor-of-9-11-mastermind-among-candidates-for-afghan-president.html
Afghanistan election authorities
received 27 nominations to succeed President  Hamid Karzai ,
including his older brother, a Columbia University Ph.D. holder
and the mentor of the mastermind behind the Sept. 11 attacks.  Nominations for the April 5 presidential election closed
around midnight, and a final list of candidates will be
published on Nov. 16, Noor Mohammad Noor, a spokesman for the
 Independent Election Commission of Afghanistan , said by phone
today.  Term limits  prevent another run by Karzai, who won the
two elections held since the Taliban’s ouster in 2001.  His successor will face a Taliban insurgency that is
becoming more deadly as President  Barack Obama  withdraws most of
the roughly 60,000 U.S. troops now in the war-torn South Asian
country. The outcome will determine the extent to which
democratic institutions have taken hold in a nation divided
along ethnic and tribal lines.  “This election will be the most competitive one in
Afghanistan’s history,” Jawid Kohistani, an independent Kabul-based political analyst, said by phone. “The teams are entirely
composed of different ethnic groups, which will stimulate
competition across ethnic lines.”  Presidential nominations also include two vice-president
candidates, which are often split along ethnic lines to attract
votes. Khadija Ghaznawi was the lone female  nominee  for
president, according to Noor.  Ethnic Mix  Ethnic Pashtuns, including Karzai and much of the Taliban,
make up about 42 percent of the country’s 31 million people,
according to the  CIA World Factbook . Tajiks are the second-biggest at 27 percent, with Uzbeks, Hazaras and other groups
making up the rest.  Abdullah Abdullah, a former foreign minister and the
runner-up to Karzai in 2009, is among the top candidates. The
53-year-old ethnic Tajik who helped U.S. forces topple the
Taliban will run with senior Hazara leader Mohammad Mohaqiq and
an ethnic Pashtun as his vice-presidential nominees.  His challengers include former Finance Minister Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai, a Pashtun with a doctorate degree in cultural
anthropology from  Columbia University  in  New York . He joined
with Abdul Rashid Dostam, one of the country’s top Uzbek
leaders, as well as an ethnic Hazara.  Abdul Qayum Karzai, the president’s older brother, also
plans to run. He has reportedly been involved with Taliban
figures to reach a political settlement, according to an Aug. 14
Congressional Research Service  report .  9/11 Mastermind  Among the most controversial candidates is former warlord
Abdul Rasul Sayyaf, a Pashtun who supported figures in the 1980s
and 1990s who ultimately formed al-Qaeda. He’s running with a
Tajik and an Uzbek.  During that time, Sayyaf served as the “mentor” of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the mastermind of the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on
the World Trade Center and Pentagon, according to  The 9/11
Commission Report . Later on Sayyaf saw the Taliban as selling
out  Afghanistan  to al-Qaeda and joined the Northern Alliance,
according to a Sept. 19 Congressional Research Service  report .  A Sayyaf presidency would be “destructive” for
Afghanistan’s relations with the U.S., according to Ahmad Saeed,
a former Afghan diplomat and an independent Kabul-based analyst.  “He is very prominent among local people as a religious
scholar and a warlord,” Saeed said of Sayyaf. “But he highly
lacks the support of the west and the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  