-- Tepco’s Claim Radiation Leaks Confined to Coast Called ‘Silly’
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-10-07T00:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/tepco-s-claim-radiation-leaks-confined-to-coast-called-silly-.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s (9501)  claim that
radioactive water leaking into the sea from the wrecked
Fukushima nuclear plant is confined to the coast doesn’t make
scientific sense, according to a U.S. researcher who surveyed
waters off the site last month.  Japan ’s government has supported the utility’s statement
that the irradiated groundwater flowing into the  Pacific Ocean 
at a rate of some 400 tons a day remains in an area of 0.3
square kilometers (0.12 square miles) within the bay fronting
the atomic station.  “These statements like a 0.3 square-kilometer zone are
silly,” Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution senior scientist
 Ken Buesseler  said in an interview. “It’s not true to the
science,” said Buesseler, who was on a Japanese research vessel
1 kilometer (0.6 miles) off Fukushima from Sept. 8 to Sept. 14.  The growing stockpile of radioactive water stored in tanks
at the plant and leaks from the tanks into the sea is an
increasing threat to ocean ecosystems, said Buesseler, who holds
a joint Ph.D in marine chemistry from the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  and Woods Hole. Founded in 1930, Woods
Hole is the world’s largest private non-profit oceanographic
research institution, according to its website.  The Fukushima atomic station has more than 1,000 tanks
holding more than 380,000 tons of water irradiated from contact
with melted reactor fuel. Three hundred tanks are of a bolted
variety, at least one of which leaked about 300 tons of water.
Additional contaminated groundwater has been seeping into the
Pacific Ocean and one of the tanks overflowed last week.  International Rules  Each tank contains about 10 terabequerels, or 270 curies,
of  strontium-90 , a radioactive element linked to leukemia that
can enter the food chain by depositing into the bones of fish,
Buesseler said. That is 100 times the amount of radioactivity
dumped by Russia into the  Sea of Japan  in a 1993 incident that
prompted  international rules  against ocean disposal.  “If only 10 of those tanks leaked it would equal all the
strontium released in 2011” after the earthquake and tsunami,
Buesseler said. “Once strontium gets into fish, it stays in
them for months and years and it’s going to be an additional
reason why they won’t be able to open up their fisheries.”  “One hundred kilometers away I can measure isotopes of
cesium that are coming from the reactor” in Fukushima,
Buesseler said. “They’re not at dangerous levels. The
scientific question is are they at levels high enough to
accumulate in the food chain and a cause for some of the fish to
be above the legal limit.”  Monitoring Data  Tokyo Electric’s own monitoring data show radiation levels
beyond the immediate area around the plant to be “limited,”
said spokesman Yoshikazu Nagai, who added that the company
recognizes the importance of carefully managing contaminated
water in storage at the site.  “We recognize that tank management is one of our most
important issues so will continue making efforts to control
contaminated water,” he said.  Last month,  South Korea  banned imports of marine products
from water off Fukushima and adjacent prefectures, citing public
health concerns.  Japanese officials at the  International Atomic Energy
Agency  in Vienna tried to assuage global concern over the impact
of Fukushima’s radiation last month.  “The effect of the contaminated water is limited to the
0.3 square kilometers just within the port outside of the
plant,”  said  Japan’s science and technology minister, Ichita Yamamoto, on Sept. 16.  4,000 Meters  “The credibility problem is as great as the engineering
solution,” said Buesseler, who has traveled to Japan multiple
times to assess Fukushima’s impact on the ocean ecosystems.
“There’s a lack of trust that they keep reinforcing by saying
things like ‘beyond this 0.3 kilometers zone there’s no
release.’”  For Japan to reduce the risk of Fukushima’s radiation
entering the food chain, it may consider pumping effluent below
4,000 meters, said Stony Brook University marine biologist
 Nicholas Fisher  in an interview. Before the practice was banned,
the International Atomic Energy Agency developed best-practice
 guidelines  for disposing of waste in deep water.  The  International Maritime Organization  has prohibited
 ocean dumping  of radioactive material since 1996 after Russia
pumped 900 tons of water with a reported 2.18 curies of
radiation into the Sea of Japan three years earlier.  Mostly Safe  “There’s certainly much more living stuff in surface
waters than there is in deep waters around 4,000 meters,” said
Fisher, whose lab has sent scientists on three Fukushima ocean
surveys. “There are no fisheries that are based on anything
deeper than around 900 meters. If organisms became contaminated
down around 4,000 meters, they may not ever appear in surface
waters.”  While most fish caught for food are safe and the amount of
naturally-occurring radiation in the ocean exceeds the amount
released by Fukushima, there is a risk that contamination could
spread to larger sea creatures, he said.  Japan should also consider new storage alternatives,
according to Buesseler and  Robert Kelley , a U.S. nuclear
engineer who was in charge of emergency response at the U.S. Los
Alamos National Laboratory.  “A better solution would be to bring in tankage that
already exists, such as a decommissioned very-large crude
carrier,” said Kelley, who worked for the  Department of Energy 
for 30 years.  Storage Alternatives  “These tanker ships can hold years worth of contaminated
water and could be moored in the sea close to the site while
they are being filled,” he said. “It would be a cheaper and
safer alternative to building hundreds of new tanks, possibly
for years.”  Because Japanese engineers were forced to build Fukushima
storage tanks uphill and behind the damaged reactors, any leaks
will complicate the clean-up process by creating new safety
hazards for workers, Kelley and Buesseler said.  “There’s a lot of radioactivity stored on site in tanks,”
said Buesseler, adding that he’s concerned that even a small
earthquake could trigger another crisis. “All of those tanks
are connected by pipes to each other and those pipes and those
fittings are not earthquake proof.”  Lab results from his most recent visit should be published
by February 2014, Buesseler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  