-- Tesco Adds Artisan Chocolate in Rejig of 15-Year Old Finest Line
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-10-07T16:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/tesco-adds-artisan-chocolate-in-rejig-of-15-year-old-finest-line.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s biggest grocer,
today unveiled a revamp of its higher-priced Finest food range,
introducing products such as hand-foraged mushrooms and New
Zealand Pinot Noir wine as it seeks to win back shoppers.  The range, first introduced in 1998, has been given new
packaging and 400 new products, U.K. chief Chris Bush said today
at a conference in London. Tesco is also dropping 200 items,
leaving Finest with about 15,000 products including Madagascan
dark chocolate bars and Kenya Makomboki tea bags.  Costing “tens of millions” of pounds, the rejig is aimed
at further improving Tesco’s own-brand offering as the grocer
attempts to revive growth in its domestic market. The retailer
rebranded its lower-priced Value range as Everyday Value in
April 2012. Upscale rivals such as Waitrose and discounters Aldi
Group and Lidl are chipping away at Tesco’s lead as consumers
seek a combination of cheaper prices and better food quality.  “This isn’t about us taking on Waitrose,” Bush said.
Instead, the range is part of moves aimed at “building a better
Tesco” with a greater emphasis on the quality of its food.  Tesco last week reported unchanged U.K. same-store sales in
its fiscal second quarter, excluding petrol and value-added
taxes. It’s suffering from what it calls a “difficult macro
environment” across many markets. The Finest rejig is “another
part of our turnaround process” that may be expanded beyond the
U.K., Bush said, though “this isn’t going to be a quick fix.”  The revamped Finest range will be backed by  television
advertising  starting Oct. 14 that will aim to demonstrate the
provenance of the products, Tesco said. The U.K. supermarket-industry leader has been sponsoring the new series of popular
historical television drama “Downton Abbey.”  Christmas Luxury  Tesco said it expects Finest sales to improve at a
“double-digit” pace in the run-up to Christmas as customers
splash out more on luxury. The grocer declined to comment on
whether the new range would boost its profitability.  More than 12 million Finest products are sold every week
and the brand is “a significant” part of Tesco’s U.K. sales,
which represent about two-thirds of its total  revenue .  The range won’t necessarily cost more, Tesco said, with the
price of many products remaining the same.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  