-- Etihad Posts Record Passenger Revenue on Partner Contributions
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f
-- 2013-10-07T13:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/etihad-posts-record-passenger-revenue-on-partner-contributions.html
Etihad Airways  said growth from
codeshare and equity partners raised passenger revenue to a
record $1.03 billion in the third quarter as more than 3 million
people flew with the third-biggest Gulf carrier.  Total third-quarter revenue rose 11 percent to $1.41
billion, with the contribution from alliance partners jumping 36
percent to $247 million, the Abu-Dhabi based carrier said today
in a statement. Partnerships accounted for 23 percent of
passenger revenue.  “In addition to our own growth in 3Q, we continued to
develop our partnership strategy,” Chief Executive Officer
 James Hogan  said in the statement. Hogan said Etihad progressed
its plans to acquire 24 percent of Jet Airways in the first
offshore investment in an Indian airline under the country’s
Foreign Direct Investment legislation.  Etihad won approval from the Indian government to invest in
Jet Airways on Oct. 4, paving the way for the first share sale
by a carrier in  India  to a foreign airline since restrictions
were eased last year. The approval will result in a $332 million
investment. Etihad has 46 codeshare agreements, expanding its
virtual network to 375 destinations, it said.  The carrier’s network of equity partners, an unusual trend
among major airlines, which tend to focus more on global
alliances and joint ventures, will probably be expanded after
Etihad agreed to invest in Air Serbia and increased its share in
Virgin  Australia  to 17 percent from 11 percent.  Etihad’s load factor -- a measure of seat occupancy -- was
unchanged at 81 percent, while cargo revenue gained 39 percent
to $244 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  