-- EU Regulators Start Inquiry Into Currency Rate-Manipulation
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   G a s p a r d   S e b a g
-- 2013-10-07T16:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/eu-starting-inquiries-into-currency-manipulation-almunia-says.html
European Union antitrust regulators
are examining the possible manipulation of currency rates,
following a Swiss probe into whether banks colluded to
manipulate the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign exchange market.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition commissioner, said he
learned in the last few days of activities that “could mean
violation of competition rules around the possible manipulation
of types of exchange rates,” according to a live chat on the
EU’s website today.  “I can’t anticipate any further because we are starting
the inquiries,” Almunia said. “We are in a very, very
preliminary phase.” His spokesman declined to comment further.  The probes come after Bloomberg News reported in June that
dealers at banks pooled information through instant messages and
used client orders to move benchmark currency rates. Britain’s
Financial Conduct Authority said that month it was reviewing the
allegations.  Switzerland’s Financial Market Supervisory Authority,
Finma, and the competition commission last week said they were
probing the potential manipulation of some foreign-exchange
rates. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission has been
also reviewing possible legal violations in foreign  currency
markets , according to a person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be identified because the matter is private.  ‘Multiple Banks’  Finma said last week it was “coordinating closely with
authorities in other countries as multiple banks around the
world are potentially implicated.” Separately, the competition
commission said it had opened a preliminary probe on Sept. 30
after receiving allegations of collusion among banks to
manipulate some foreign-exchange rates. Neither agency
identified which firms are being probed.  Authorities around the world are investigating the alleged
abuse of financial benchmarks by the firms that play a central
role in setting them. EU regulators are already reviewing
allegations of collusion in crude oil and biofuels markets and
possible rigging by banks and brokerages of Libor and Euribor,
benchmark interest rates.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank,
was among four firms fined about $2.6 billion for rigging the
London interbank offered rate, the benchmark for more than $300
trillion of securities worldwide.  Four banks account for more than half of all trading in the
foreign-exchange market, according to a May survey by  Euromoney
Institutional Investor Plc. (ERM)   Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is No. 1 with a 15
percent share, followed by  Citigroup Inc (C)  with almost 15 percent
and London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and UBS, which each have 10
percent. Sebastian Howell, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank,
Aurelie Leonard of Barclays,  Richard Morton  of UBS and Jeffrey
French of Citigroup all declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Gaspard Sebag in Brussels at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  