-- Eurex Postpones Entry to Currency Market on Settlement
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-10-07T11:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/eurex-postpones-entry-to-currency-market-on-settlement.html
Eurex,  Europe ’s largest futures
market, postponed its entry to the foreign-exchange market after
the bank it planned to use for access to the settlement system
said it needed more time.  “The third-party service-provider bank that will give
access to the continuous linked settlement system required for
the settlement of FX futures and FX options has requested
additional time to further strengthen the control framework,”
Eurex said in a  notice  to members on Oct. 4. The document did
not say when foreign-exchange trading would become available.  Deutsche Boerse AG-owned Eurex had intended to offer
exchange-listed derivatives on the six currency pairs where the
bulk of over-the-counter trading takes place from today. The
exchange proposed futures and options contracts based on euro-dollar, euro-pound, euro-Swiss franc and pound-dollar, according
to a notice on Aug. 20. It also planned contracts based on the
pound-Swiss franc and dollar-Swiss franc pairs.  The company intends to benefit from increased volumes in
 currency markets  and regulators’ insistence on greater
transparency. Trading in the world’s biggest financial market
averaged $5.3 trillion a day in April, according to the  Bank for
International Settlements .  Eurex, Europe’s largest derivatives exchange, wants to
expand into an asset class dominated by its American rival CME
Group Inc. CME has also delayed setting up its London-based
European exchange offering currency derivatives.  Eurex plans to offer physical settlement of the derivative
contracts through  CLS Bank . When it opens, investors will be
able to trade futures from 8 a.m. Frankfurt time to 10 p.m and
options from 8 a.m to 7:30 p.m. The exchange will offer revenue
sharing to increase liquidity, Eurex said Aug. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  