-- European Stocks Drop as Boehner Rejects Clean Debt Limit
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-10-07T15:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/european-stock-index-futures-retreat-amid-u-s-shutdown.html
European  stocks  dropped to their
lowest level in four weeks as U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner 
ruled out raising the federal government’s debt limit without
setting preconditions.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  retreated 1.2 percent as its chief
executive officer told a newspaper that the slowdown in Chinese
luxury-goods sales may continue. SAP AG lost 2.2 percent,
contributing the most to a decline by a gauge of technology
stocks, after a report that the German software maker has held
talks with BlackBerry Ltd.  Solvay SA (SOLB)  climbed 1.2 percent after
agreeing to buy U.S. chemicals maker Chemlogics Group LLC.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slid 0.2 percent to 309.18 at
the close in London, after earlier falling as much as 1 percent.
The gauge slipped 0.7 percent last week as the U.S. began its
first partial government shutdown in 17 years on Oct. 1.  “Everyone assumed there would be more action over U.S.-
shutdown and debt-ceiling talks over the weekend, and now
reality has set in,” Veronika Pechlaner, who helps oversee
about $2.3 billion as an investment manager at the  Jersey ,
Channel Islands-based Ashburton Ltd., said by phone. “Investors
will be nervous until some sort of compromise is reached. Any
U.S. weakness is not good news for Europe.”  Boehner, the Republicans’ leader in the  House of
Representatives , continued to demand changes to President  Barack Obama ’s health-care act before agreeing to extend the borrowing
authority. The Treasury has said it will exhaust measures to
avoid exceeding the $16.7 trillion  debt ceiling  on Oct. 17. If
that happens, the U.S. will run out of money to pay all of its
bills at some point between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to
the  Congressional Budget Office .  Debt Limit  “We are not going to pass a clean debt limit,” Boehner
said in an interview on ABC yesterday. “The votes are not in
the House to pass a clean debt limit.”  Republican and Democrat lawmakers continued to clash over
the emergency budget needed to end the shutdown. The move has
placed thousands of federal employees on unpaid leave and closed
down some services.  Obama has said he won’t negotiate over funding the federal
government or raising the debt ceiling. The President has argued
that the Republican-controlled House should not use either
issue, which he described as basic functions of Congress, as
points of leverage.  National benchmark indexes retreated in 13 of the 18
western-European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 dropped 0.3
percent, while  Germany ’s DAX slipped 0.4 percent, while  France ’s
CAC 40 was little changed.  Greece ’s ASE Index gained 2.5 percent
today after  John Paulson  said in an interview with the Financial
Times that his hedge fund has bought stakes in two of the
country’s lenders.  Volatility Rises  The VStoxx Index, which measures expected volatility on the
Euro Stoxx 50 Index, rose 3.1 percent to 20.16 today.  Burberry dropped 1.2 percent to 1,608 pence after CEO
Angela Ahrendts told  Les Echos  that “this Chinese slowdown is
perhaps not an accident, but the new given.” The Asia Pacific
region accounted for 39 percent of the  company’s sales  in the 12
months through March 2013.  SAP declined 2.2 percent to 52.90 euros. The world’s
biggest enterprise-software company, along with Cisco Systems
Inc. and Google Inc., has held talks to buy all or part of
BlackBerry, Reuters reported, citing unidentified people
familiar with the matter. The Canadian phonemaker had asked for
expressions of interest from potential buyers as an alternative
to the tentative agreement it reached with a financial group led
by Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. on Sept. 23. Reuters said
that SAP, Google and Cisco declined to comment.  Forecast Cut  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  declined 2.8 percent to 480.3
pence after Credit Suisse Group AG estimated that the U.K. food-and-clothing retailer’s same-store sales fell 1.5 percent in the
second quarter of its financial year. The brokerage had forecast
a 0.5 percent increase. Marks & Spencer reports its first-half
 results  on Nov. 5.  Solvay gained 1.2 percent to 108.75 euros after saying it
will buy Chemlogics for $1.35 billion in cash. The  acquisition 
will generate cash and earnings in its first year, according to
a statement by the Belgian maker of gelling agents used in
hydraulic fracturing.  European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. rose 2.2 percent to
50.30 euros after its Airbus SAS subsidiary won its first order
from Japan Airlines Co.  EON SE and RWE AG, Germany’s  biggest utilities , gained 4.1
percent to 13.81 euros and 5.2 percent to 26.93 euros,
respectively. The European Commission proposes to scale back a
fixed-price guarantee for renewable energy,  Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung  reported. The newspaper cited an internal
document from the commission.  Greek Lenders  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  advanced 3 percent to 1.37 euros and Alpha
Bank AE gained 3.1 percent to 60.8 euro cents. Paulson & Co.
owns stakes in the two lenders, Paulson told the FT.  “The  Greek economy  is improving, which should benefit the
banking sector,” Paulson said in an interview with the
newspaper. Baupost Group LLC, Eaglevale Partners LP, Dromeus
Capital Management, Falcon Edge Capital LP, York Capital
Management LP and  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC  have
also invested in the country’s lenders, according to the FT,
which cited unidentified people close to the situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  