-- Evraz Sees European Steel Market Stalled Even as U.S. Recovers
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-10-07T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/evraz-sees-european-steel-market-stalled-even-as-u-s-recovers.html
Evraz Plc (EVR) ,  Russia ’s largest steel
producer by output, expects the European market to stall for at
least two to three years even as U.S. demand recovers.  “Europe didn’t solve fundamental problems with its economy
during the current crisis,” Pavel Tatyanin, its international
business chief, said in an interview. “The U.S. deleveraged its
companies, allowed the dollar to drop against major currencies,
reduced labor costs and took measures to boost labor mobility.”  Evraz is cutting European operations, including the sale of
its Czech Vitkovice Steel unit bought in 2005, while completing
an expansion of its North American rail-manufacturing capacity.
European steel demand declined 9 percent last year and may drop
3 percent this year, while North America grew 8 percent in 2012
and may gain 1.5 percent this year, according to  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Evraz, controlled by Chelsea soccer club owner Roman Abramovich along with billionaires Alexander Abramov and
 Alexander Frolov , got as much as 9 percent of its sales from
Europe last year and 18 percent from the Americas.  “We currently produce more than 50,000 tons of rails per
month, while we should have reached that level after expansion
in the fourth quarter only,” Tatyanin said of U.S. operations.  The expansion of Evraz Pueblo mill in  Colorado  to 500,000
metric tons of rails a year was unveiled in 2011 to meet rising
demand in North America, where Evraz is the largest supplier.
“2013 sales will be approximately the same as 2012, when the
market consumed record volumes of rails,” Tatyanin said.  Consumption Recovered  “The U.S. is going through reindustrialization and steel
consumption has recovered, the car industry is working at the
highest utilization rate,” the senior vice-president said.  In contrast, excess capacity in some steel products in
 Europe  is reaching 30 percent to 45 percent, Tatyanin said. The
price of hot-rolled coil in Europe, a benchmark, fell to as low
as $437.59 a ton in July, the weakest level in three years,
according to Metal Bulletin data on the Bloomberg terminal.  “The car industry in Europe is the weakest since World War
II, although it’s picking up recently, while investment activity
is at a very low level,” Tatyanin said. “The construction boom
ended with a bubble. All southern Europe countries have a lot of
unsold residences and until this inventory at the users’ end
clears itself out, the steel market won’t recover.”  While Evraz is nearing a deal to sell Vitkovice, it is in
talks with the labor union at the Palini mill in northern  Italy 
after the company temporarily closed operations. Evraz isn’t
considering a sale “as fundamentally the asset is good quality
and has synergies with the rest of the group.”  Ukraine Operation  Evraz will also keep its mill in Dnipropetrovsk, Ukraine.  “We’ve developed a proper program, which assumes spending
less than $200 million over three to four years to upgrade
selected elements of our facilities,” Tatyanin said in Moscow.  In the long term, the whole Ukrainian business is targeted
to generate earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation,
amortization of at least $170 million a year, he said.  One common problem for Europe and the Americas is imports.  Ukrainian mills may boost European shipments as the pursuit
of customs integration with the European Union will cut off its
market in Russia, Tatyanin said. “Ukraine lost the market in
North Africa due to the political instability in the region, so
Europe will be a natural destination,” he said.  There’s also a knock-on effect from European troubles in
 North America  as producers seek a “bright spot” for demand,
with import prices below production costs in some cases.  Imports in some pipe markets account for as much as half of
demand, with some offering pipes at $950 a ton, “definitely
below the cost of production and transportation,” compared with
the market average of about $1,100 to $1,300, Tatyanin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  