-- Falcone Banned at Fidelity for 7 Years by N.Y.’s Lawsky
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/falcone-banned-by-n-y-regulator-for-seven-years.html
Billionaire Philip Falcone was banned
by  New York  state’s top financial watchdog from being an officer
or director of Fidelity & Guaranty Life for seven years for
using his hedge funds’ money for his personal taxes.  Falcone, 51, is also barred from “direct or indirect
control over the management, policies, operations” and
investment funds of Fidelity’s New York unit, the state’s
 Department of Financial Services  said yesterday in a statement.
The ban also applies to employees of his hedge fund, Harbinger
Capital Partners LLC, which controls the insurance company.  Falcone’s absence isn’t a major concern because he “is not
involved in the day to day,”  Kevin Cassidy , an analyst at
Moody’s Investors Service, said by phone.  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) ,
the insurer’s parent company, has other executives who can
oversee Fidelity, Cassidy said.  The ban stems from Falcone’s accord in August with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, which had sued him over the
same claims and banned him for five years from the securities
industry. In that case, Falcone admitted to improperly borrowing
$113.2 million from the fund and giving preferential treatment
to some clients when returning their money.  Potential Influence  While Falcone isn’t an officer or director at Fidelity, the
ban is intended to prevent him from exerting his potential
influence over the insurer in any capacity through his role as
 Harbinger Capital ’s chief executive officer, according to a
person familiar with the matter who wasn’t authorized to give
details about the case. Fidelity’s SEC filings list Falcone as
the company’s “ultimate controlling person.”  Fidelity, based in Baltimore, is run by Chief Executive
Officer Lee Launer, a former executive at MetLife Inc., the
largest U.S. life insurer.  “It is vital to ensure that those who operate insurance
companies will always put retirees and policyholders first and
act with the utmost integrity,” DFS Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky , who regulates banks and insurers operating in New York,
said in the statement.  Falcone, who became a billionaire by betting against the
U.S. housing market in 2006, was approached by Lawsky’s office
following his settlement with the SEC,  Matthew Anderson , a
spokesman for the DFS, said in a phone interview yesterday.  Seven Years  Harbinger Capital’s general counsel, Robin Roger, and its
chief financial officer, Keith Hladek, resigned from Fidelity’s
board in anticipation of the ban, said two people familiar with
the matter, who weren’t authorized to discuss the moves
publicly.  Employees of Harbinger Group aren’t affected by the ban,
and some of its employees are still on the board, the people
said.  Hladek declined to comment when reached by phone yesterday.
Roger didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  Following negotiations, Falcone, Harbinger and Fidelity all
agreed to the seven-year ban against Falcone and the deal’s
reach beyond New York, where the regulator has authority,
Anderson said.  The New York ban comes as Fidelity is seeking a valuation
of at least $1 billion in its initial public offering, according
to two people involved in the planning. Harbinger Group bought
Fidelity & Guaranty, the U.S. life and annuity unit of London-based  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , for $350 million in 2011.  Falcone’s hedge funds last month sold $158 million of
Harbinger Group shares, a stake of about 13 percent, to  Leucadia
National Corp. (LUK)  as the  money manager  meets redemption requests
after the SEC settlement.  Eric Goldstein, a lawyer representing Harbinger Capital,
didn’t immediately return a call for comment on the DFS ban.  ‘Falcone’s Fitness’  The wrongdoing exposes “serious issues related to Mr.
Falcone’s fitness to control the management, operations, and
policyholder funds of a New York insurance company,” Lawsky
said in the statement. The statement didn’t say what specific
role, if any, Falcone had at Fidelity.  Fidelity’s New York unit agreed to put in place new
policyholder protections under yesterday’s agreement, including
setting aside $18.5 million in a trust account to replenish its
risk-based capital levels to protect consumers from unexpected
losses, Lawsky said.  The guidelines are modeled on internal rules adopted by
other insurance companies owned by private equity firms and
investment companies at the financial regulator’s request,
according to yesterday’s statement.  U.S. money manager Guggenheim Partners LLC and  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  agreed this year to similar policyholder
protections, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  