-- U.S. Health Exchange’s Stumbles Continue for Second Week
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m ,   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-10-07T21:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/federal-health-exchange-s-stumbles-continue-as-second-week-opens.html
Consumers couldn’t access parts of
the U.S. government’s online health-insurance exchange today,
after a weekend of technical upgrades failed to eliminate delays
in the system at the heart of the Affordable Care Act.  The federal website, meant to serve people in 36 states,
was still delivering error messages to users trying to create
accounts. While most of the 14 states running their own health
exchanges, including  California , ran better,  New York ’s website
had problems registering some consumers.  The exchanges debuted Oct. 1 and are supposed to help
millions of uninsured Americans buy subsidized coverage under
the  Affordable Care Act . The federal site has been hamstrung by
long wait times and crashes, with President  Barack Obama  blaming
a surge of interest that exceeded expectations. Amid the delays,
the administration said it was starting to improve the system.  “The work done to increase access to  healthcare.gov  in
light of the overwhelming demand is beginning to show results,”
Joanne Peters, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Health and Human
Services Department, said in an e-mail. “Call center wait times
are seconds, not minutes, and people have been enrolling over
the phone 24/7.”  People have been enrolling through the federal site,  Jay
Carney , a White House spokesman, told reporters at a briefing.
He declined to say how many and said the administration planned
to release figures monthly, as is done by Medicare, the U.S.
health plan for the elderly and disabled.  Technical Overhaul  The federal website was overhauled this past weekend,
including adding servers to increase capacity, Peters said. Wait
times from consumers have been shortened by half since Oct. 4,
she said. The enrollment period runs through March 31.  The state-run exchanges, which have battled their own
glitches, also saw reduced delays today. Sites in Connecticut,
 California ,  Maryland  and Washington enabled users to create an
account and start applications without delays.  In  Kentucky , almost 7,000 individuals and families have
purchased plans through the state’s website, while 209 small
businesses have started applications, according to a statement
from Governor Steve Beshear’s office. Connecticut’s
AccessHealthCT site has processed 1,175 applications since Oct.
1, the exchange said in a statement.  Shares fell for health insurers that focus on lower-income
Americans or are selling on the exchanges.  Molina Healthcare
Inc. (MOH) , based in  Long Beach , California, slipped 2.9 percent to
$35.63 at the close of New York trading.  Humana Inc. (HUM) , based in
Louisville, Kentucky, dropped 1.8 percent to $94.71.  “Everyone has glitches now and then but they aren’t down
for days,” said John Engates chief technology officer of San
Antonio, Texas-based  Rackspace Hosting Inc. (RAX) , which helps
companies manage  Internet traffic . “It can be avoided, the
question is, can it be avoided in the context of something as
complex and difficult to work with as the federal government and
the health-care system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  