-- Finmeccanica Stock Extends Gains on Sale of Ansaldo Stake
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-10-07T08:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/finmeccanica-stock-extends-gains-on-sale-of-ansaldo-stake.html
Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  rose for a fifth
consecutive trading day after saying it will raise 777 million
euros ($1.06 billion) by selling most of its stake in power-plant unit Ansaldo Energia SpA.  Finmeccanica advanced as much as 4 percent and traded 2
percent higher at 5.34 euros as of 10:38 a.m. in Milan, valuing
the Italian manufacturer at 3.1 billion euros. The stock has
jumped 21 percent this month.  Italian state lender Cassa Depositi & Prestiti SpA will buy
a 40 percent stake of Ansaldo Energia held by Finmeccanica,
paring the Rome-based manufacturer’s holding to 15 percent, with
private-equity firm First Reserve divesting its 45 percent
share, the engineering company said on Oct. 4. Initial proceeds
will amount to 273 million euros when the deal is completed,
probably this year, with additional funds due through 2017,
Finmeccanica said.  “The risk of a capital increase has clearly fallen,”
 David Perry , a London-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. said
in a research report. He raised his  recommendation  on the stock
to neutral from underweight.  The CDP fund has the option to purchase the remaining
Finmeccanica shares in the second half of 2017.  Disposal Target  Finmeccanica, in which the Italian government holds a stake
of almost 30 percent, has been trying for more than a year to
raise at least 1 billion euros via asset sales to cut almost 5
billion euros in debt. A management reshuffle, inconclusive
Italian elections in February and opposition from unions and
lawmakers have delayed the process.  The maker of M-346 military-jet trainer aircraft and parts
for  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliners is also seeking to sell stakes in
unprofitable, wholly owned trainmaking unit AnsaldoBreda and
possibly in its publicly traded  Ansaldo STS SpA (STS)  rail-signaling
business, which Finmeccanica controls with a 40 percent holding.
The company will receive 260 million euros for its stake in
aircraft engine maker Avio following a sale of the business to
 General Electric Co. (GE)  by private-equity firm Cinven Ltd.  Finmeccanica and the CDP fund have agreed to “assess
opportunities for strategic cooperation” in the railway sector,
including the potential to bring in foreign investors, the
company said.  Debt at Finmeccanica  has been given junk ratings this year
by the three biggest credit reporting companies in the absence
of disposals. The company,  Italy ’s biggest aerospace
manufacturer, said Aug. 1 that net debt will probably fall to
3.3 billion euros by the end of 2013, even without asset sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  