-- Florida County Shops Airport Debt to Invest in Jet Set
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   P r i y a   A n a n d
-- 2013-10-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/florida-county-shops-airport-debt-to-invest-in-jet-set.html
Florida ’s Broward County, competing
with neighboring Miami for air travelers, is offering $434
million in airport revenue bonds this week as such securities
are beating the overall municipal market for the third straight
year.  The county will use the cash to renovate terminals, expand
a runway and replace gates at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood
International Airport, according to deal documents. For the $2.3
billion project, officials plan to sell about $764 million more
in bonds next year through 2017.  The offering is among $4.7 billion of long-term municipal
issues scheduled for this week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s up from $3.7 billion last week, as benchmark yields are
close to the lowest since June. Individuals pulled about $690
million from muni-focused mutual funds in the week through Oct.
2, according to Lipper US Fund Flows data.  “This community and this part of the world are very
attractive to these airlines and passengers,” said Doug Wolfe,
Broward County’s assistant aviation director of administration
and finance. “They want to come here.”  Upgrades would improve passenger flow at the 21st-busiest
U.S. airport, which handled 23.5 million passengers in 2012,
according to sale documents. The facility is on the south side
of  Fort Lauderdale , 27 miles (43 kilometers) north of Miami
International Airport.  Tourist Industry  Standard and Poor’s grades the deal A+, fifth-highest,
citing the county’s “strong tourist industry and an affluent
population” of about 1.8 million, according to U.S. Census
data. Median  household income  was 102 percent of the national
figure, the ratings company said.  “Competition from other airports is increasing,” said
Moody’s Investors Service, noting that Miami is expanding its
facility. Moody’s, too, rates the deal at fifth-highest, A1.  The issue will add to the airport’s almost $1.2 billion in
debt backed by carrier fees, car rentals and parking, according
to deal documents. Wolfe said he expected total financing costs
to be around 4.9 percent.  Airline securities are losing 2.7 percent this year through
Oct. 3, less than the decline of 3.2 percent for the entire
municipal market, extending the streak since 2011, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   Priya Anand in  New York  at 
 panand20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  