-- Former Flow Traders Employees Indicted for Software Theft
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-10-07T21:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/former-flow-traders-employees-indicted-for-software-theft.html
Three men accused of stealing
software from Dutch trading house Flow Traders were indicted on
related charges by a grand jury in New York,  Manhattan  District
Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. said.  Jason Vuu, 26, of  San Jose ,  California , Glen Cressman, 26,
of  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida , and Simon Lu, 25, of Pittsburgh
were indicted on charges of unlawful duplication of computer-related material and unlawful use of secret scientific material,
Vance’s office said today in statement.  “The theft of computer software developed in-house is a
serious and growing threat to businesses, one my office will
continue to take extremely seriously,” Vance said in the
statement.  Vuu and Cressman worked as traders at the Amsterdam-based
Flow Traders’ Manhattan office before resigning in March,
according to the statement. Vuu is accused of e-mailing himself
trading strategies for several of the company’s trading desks
and computer code for its proprietary trading platform from
August 2011 to August 2012, Vance’s office said.  Vuu then worked with Lu, a friend from college, to create a
trading platform for a company they planned to form, Vance said.
Cressman e-mailed himself proprietary trading strategies on two
occasions in December 2012, Vance’s office said.  Search Warrants  Search warrants executed on their homes found several
electronic devices capable of being used to share stolen code,
Vance’s office said.  In today’s announcement, Vance called on the state
Legislature to adopt recommendations of a  task force  on white-collar crime and “protect intellectual property as rigorously
as physical property.”  “When an employee takes software to create his own
company, anybody would classify that as ‘stealing’ or ‘theft,’”
he said. “Under existing state law, however, stealing valuable
printer toner out of an office supply closet is a more serious
offense than stealing valuable computer source code.”  Vuu and Lu were arraigned today before Justice Laura A. Ward in Manhattan, pleaded not guilty and were released on bail,
according to Vance’s office. Cressman is scheduled to be
arraigned before Ward on Oct. 15. They face as long as four
years in prison on each count if convicted.  Vance’s office announced charges against the three men in
August.  Proprietary Trading  Flow Traders describes itself on its website as a “leading
international proprietary trading house” founded in 2004 in
Amsterdam that trades securities, futures, options, exchange-traded funds, commodities, bonds and foreign exchange
instruments.  Vuu told authorities after his arrest in August that he
worked for Flow Traders for three years and quit “because of a
newborn baby and stress,” according to a voluntary disclosure
form provided by prosecutors. Vuu said he “never took any
source code and didn’t have access to it.”  “I did not send myself anything,” Vuu told authorities.
“I am developing my own trading system, which is written in C#
as opposed to the Java used by Flow Traders. I had a project
called ‘Turtle,’ but have started something new called ‘Alpha.’
I spoke with a company in  China  to start trading there, but
decided not to.”  MIT Roommates  According to the disclosure form, Lu told authorities that
Vuu, who was his roommate for several years at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology , asked him about a year ago help develop
a computer-based trading platform that they began working on in
February. Lu said he did the work voluntarily, “as a hobby.”  Lu said he had no knowledge of Vuu’s relationship with Flow
Traders, other than that he worked there, and said he never
discussed proprietary code of any kind with him. Lu said he used
a freely available code.  “To the best of my knowledge, everything I worked on was
freely available publicly, or commercially purchased,” Lu told
authorities, according to the form.  Jeremy Saland, an attorney representing Vuu, said he’s
confident that the district attorney’s office will “see what
transpired is not what they initially believed.”  Charles Ross , a lawyer for Cressman, said his client is
innocent of all the charges against him.  ‘Completely Unravel’  “We are confident that in court the district attorney’s
case against him will completely unravel,” Ross said in a
statement.  Paul Shechtman, an attorney representing Lu, and Flow
Traders didn’t immediately respond to messages seeking comment
on the indictment.  The three men are charged with the same crimes as  Sergey Aleynikov , the former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. programmer
accused of stealing proprietary software code from that company
firm. Aleynikov was freed from federal prison in  New Jersey  in
2012 after an appeals court overturned his conviction. He was
charged for the same alleged conduct by Vance’s office six
months later.  The cases are People of the State of  New York  v. Vuu,
3869/2013, and People of the State of New York v. Cressman,
3870/2013, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  