-- FX Concepts Closing Funds, Firing Employees as Losses Mount
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-10-07T20:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/fx-concepts-closing-funds-firing-employees-as-losses-mount.html
FX Concepts LLC, the currency hedge
fund founded by  John Taylor  that was once the world’s largest,
is closing funds and shedding employees as losses for the
company’s main trading program approach 15 percent this year.  The hedge fund’s assets under management shrunk to $661
million as of Sept. 26, from about $12 billion in 2009,
according to data from the New York-based company’s investor
website. The San Francisco Employees’ Retirement System voted on
Sept. 11 to pull the more than $450 million it had invested with
FX Concepts, according to CNBC. Alison Johnson, a spokeswoman
for the San Francisco pension fund, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  “We are in the process of restructuring -- we are closing
some funds and we are laying off some people,” Robert Savage,
the chief strategist at FX Concepts, wrote today in a e-mailed
response. “We have lost some big accounts this year. FX as an
asset-class business has been difficult this year.”  Hedge funds  that seek to profit on macro-economic events
trading anything from currencies to commodities have had
negative  returns  of 10 percent this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Volatility in the $5.3 trillion-a-day
foreign-exchange market rose in the first half of the year at
the fastest pace since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed,
catching traders off guard and wiping out gains from strategies
such as the carry trade.  Fund Losses  FX Concepts’ flagship fund, the $619 million Global
Currency Program, had lost 13.9 percent in 2013 as of August,
according to a company report. The $16 million FX Concepts
Multi-Strategy Program declined 10.96 percent year-to-date
through August, company data show.  FX Concepts, which was founded in 1981 by Taylor and calls
itself one of the oldest currency-only hedge funds, saw its
Global Currency Program lose 3.11 percent in 2012 and 14.47
percent in 2011.  Savage didn’t comment on the number of employees that have
left the company.  Taylor, 70, is attempting to sell a co-op he bought on  New
York City ’s Upper East Side in 2010 for $25 million, according
to a Sept. 13 report from The Real Deal. The purchase, which was
for $4.5 million more than the asking price, was funded with a
$20 million loan that was taken out from FX Concepts in June
2010, according to the report.  FX Concepts agreed to buy subscription-based financial
research provider Track.com for an undisclosed amount in
September 2012. Taylor maintained an active role in the firm’s
research operation following the deal, with the idea that
Savage, 50, would eventually take over full control.  “The trouble at FX Concepts aren’t unique, but more a
symptom of the entire business,” Savage wrote in his e-mailed
message. “Clearly we are rethinking our core business
strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  