-- G-20 Draft Says QE Withdrawal Volatility Poses ‘Important Risk’
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-10-07T16:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/g-20-draft-says-qe-withdrawal-volatility-poses-important-risk-.html
The Group of 20 economies identified
market turmoil from central banks’ withdrawal of monetary
stimulus as a key risk to the global financial system, according
to a draft communique for talks scheduled later this week.  “Excessive market volatility and tightening of financing
conditions in response to an approaching eventual transition
toward the monetary policy normalization in advanced economies
is an important risk,” according to the preliminary statement,
which was marked as a first draft and obtained from a
participant in the talks. “We will ensure that future changes
to monetary policy settings will continue to be carefully
calibrated and clearly communicated.”  The draft will be used as a basis for discussions scheduled
Oct. 10-11 in Washington of G-20 finance ministers and central
bankers, and a final communique is typically released after the
meetings. The gathering coincides with the annual meetings of
the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.  “While the global recovery continues, it remains uneven
and fragile, with unemployment being unacceptably high in many
countries,” the draft states. “There are signs of improvement
in major advanced economies and evidence of slower growth in
some  emerging markets .”  The intention of G-20 policy makers to communicate
transparently comes almost a month after the Federal Reserve
surprised investors by deciding not to trim its $85 billion-a-month asset-purchase program.  Taper Signals  Previous signals from Fed officials, including Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, that they may curtail the third round of
quantitative easing prompted calls from the IMF,  China  and
 Mexico  for the U.S. to better communicate or even cooperate when
planning to curtail stimulus.  A group of the 20 most-traded emerging-market currencies
last month fell to the lowest since 2009 and dollar bonds in
such nations dropped the most in five years in the second
quarter as measured by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Diversified Composite Index. Both gauges rebounded after the Fed
decided to maintain the pace of  bond purchases .  The concern of emerging markets is that when the Fed does
begin tapering its bond buying, it could hurt them by sparking
an exodus of cash and higher borrowing costs.  Brazil ,  Turkey ,
South Africa,  India  and  Indonesia  are the most vulnerable,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. strategists said in a Sept. 5 report.  ECB, Japan  Other major central banks are pledging to maintain stimulus
in part to ensure investors don’t force up their market
borrowing costs in step with the U.S. The European Central Bank
has pledged to keep its key interest rate at 0.5 percent for an
“extended period,” while the Bank of  Japan  is trying to expand
its monetary base by 60 trillion to 70 trillion yen in a bid to
generate 2 percent inflation.  The Bank of England has pledged to keep its benchmark at
0.5 percent until unemployment drops to 7 percent so long as
price and financial stability aren’t threatened.  The IMF will tomorrow update its forecasts for the world
economy, having previously predicted expansion of 3.1 percent
this year and 3.8 percent in 2014. Managing Director Christine Lagarde last week said global growth “remains subdued.”  In the draft G-20 statement, the group also restated the
need to ratify quota changes at the IMF and pledged to ensure a
“safe and reliable financial system by addressing the major
fault lines that caused the crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  