-- Gecamines of Congo May Take Action Against Partners After Audit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-10-07T07:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/gecamines-of-congo-may-take-action-against-partners-after-audit.html
Gecamines, the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo’s state-owned miner, may take action against some of its
partners after an audit of its joint ventures showed the company
has been treated unfairly, Chairman Albert Yuma said.  The company, whose partners include Phoenix, Arizona-based
 Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  and London-based  Glencore
Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , received the results of the audit two weeks ago,
Yuma said in an Oct. 3 interview in Kinshasa, Congo’s capital.
He declined to identify the companies that Gecamines is
considering action against.  “We’re having lawyers look at the report and are hoping
that in all cases there will be discussions with our partners,”
he said. “In cases where we are not convinced that our partners
were very fair to Gecamines, there will be action. I don’t know
what yet.”  Gecamines announced the audit two years ago as part of a
plan to revitalize the Lubumbashi-based company by raising money
to build new processing plants and expand production. Copper
output almost stopped at the company in the early 2000s after
decades of mismanagement and war in the Central African country.
Gecamines was previously one of the world’s biggest copper
miners, producing 476,000 metric tons in 1986.  Congo’s copper output reached more than 600,000 tons last
year, making it the eighth-largest producer in the world. The
majority of that production came from Gecamines’ joint ventures,
according to Mines Ministry statistics. Gecamines’ other
partners include London-based  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) ,
Australia-based  Tiger Resources Ltd. (TGS) , Jinchuan Group of China,
China Minmetals Corp. and  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN)  of  Canada .  ‘Excellent Relationship’  “Tiger enjoys an excellent working relationship with
Gecamines with both partners working co-operatively to bring
Stage 2 of the Kipoi Copper Project into production by
mid-2014,” Chairman Neil Fearis said today in an e-mailed
response to questions. Gecamines holds a 40 percent interest in
Kipoi, which could produce more than 50,000 tons of copper per
year, according to Tiger’s website.  Freeport, Lundin and ENRC didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mailed request for comment. Glencore spokesman Charles Watenphul declined to comment. Four calls to China Minmetals
Corp. went unanswered today, a public holiday in  China . No one
was available for comment when Bloomberg called Jinchuan’s
offices.  ‘Old Stove’  Gecamines has struggled to attract financing for its fully
owned properties because of outdated equipment and a nearly $1
billion debt burden, Yuma said. Last year, the company produced
about 35,000 tons of copper and lost as much as 10,000 tons of
output because of power blackouts in Katanga province.  “We haven’t been able to increase production and revenue
as we wanted because of old equipment,” Yuma said. “In the
kitchen, they say that on an old stove you can still make good
sauce. That’s not true in mining.”  The company has prepared a new reorganization plan, which
will require about $2 billion in financing for new factories and
a further 550 million euros ($750 million) for a coal-fired
power plant, Yuma said.  To help it raise money, Gecamines will spin off its
minority shareholdings into a separate offshore company, using
the  cash flow  generated from royalties and dividends to attract
investment. It may also sell its 20 percent stake in Glencore’s
Kamoto Copper Co., one of Congo’s biggest mines, Yuma said.  First Priority  The company’s first priority is to develop the Deziwa and
Ecaille C copper project, which has about 5 million tons of
proven reserves, Yuma said. Production could eventually reach
200,000 tons, he said.  Gecamines also plans to combine its CMSK and Kalumines
projects, which it recently took over from partners George
Forrest Group,  African Rainbow Minerals Ltd. (ARI)  and  Vale SA. (VALE)  The
single entity would produce about 60,000 tons of copper, he
said.  Gecamines has begun litigation against Societe National
d’Electricite, the state-owned electricity company known as
SNEL, to take back three or four hydropower projects in Katanga
province, Yuma said.  “They belong to Gecamines” and were put under SNEL
management in the 1970s during a nationalization campaign in the
country, Yuma said.  Court hearings begin Oct. 22, Yuma said. If the company
gets control of the dams, it will create a private partnership
to run them, he said.  Miners in Katanga have an energy deficit of more than 300
megawatts, according to the Energy Ministry. Companies have been
forced to buy generators or purchase power from neighboring
Zambia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  