-- Gensler Assesses U.S. Swap Rules Debut by Phone in Shutdown
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-10-07T16:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/gensler-assesses-u-s-swap-rules-debut-by-phone-amid-shutdown.html
Gary Gensler  spent much of the past
month fending off Wall Street’s campaign to slow the move to
electronic swaps trading. So when the platforms went live last
week, the top U.S. derivatives regulator wasn’t going to let a
government shutdown stop him from monitoring its progress.  With most of the staff at the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Washington headquarters on furlough, Gensler, in
his final months on the job, had to pick up the phone and call
around to make sure the system was working. He pronounced
himself satisfied.  “It was a very good start,” he said in an interview.
“Though the CFTC is in darkness with the shutdown, we’ve been
able to bring some additional light to the marketplace.”  Market participants were more tentative.  Tom Zikas, managing director and head of eRates at  State
Street (STT)  Global Exchange whose firm received one of Gensler’s
calls, said traders were still adjusting to the new rules and
holding off on the new platforms. “It was a dead slow day
everywhere,” Zikas said.  It was a quiet start for one of the Dodd-Frank Act’s main
solutions for making derivatives transactions less opaque.
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money manager, and clients
of banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  decided to execute
many trades the old-fashioned way, over the phone. The
Securities and Exchange Commission also spooked some venues by
saying they may be violating securities laws.  Adjustment Time  While that didn’t immediately fulfill Gensler’s goal of
bringing $633 trillion in derivatives trading out in the open,
the low volume gives the market time to adjust with fewer
disruptions, traders said.  “This is just the start of a ramp up,” Kevin McPartland,
head of market structure and research at Greenwich Associates,
said in a telephone interview. “The last thing the industry
needed was a big bang.”  The CFTC, to ease the transition, granted a series of
delays for when traders must use platforms, including those
owned by Tradeweb Markets LLC,  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) ,  ICAP Plc. (IAP)  and
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News . The Sefs
needed to register with the agency by Oct. 2.  Clearing Deadline  There will be no delay for  hedge funds  and overseas
branches of banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Citigroup
Inc., from an Oct. 10 deadline to guarantee interest-rate and
credit swaps at clearinghouses, Gensler said. The  American
Bankers Association , a Washington lobbying group, has pressed
the CFTC and Treasury Department for a delay, arguing that U.S.
banks will suffer competitively against overseas banks.  “Non-U.S. customers have already started to respond by
taking their business to non-U.S. trading counterparties, to the
disadvantage of U.S. banks with overseas branches,”  Frank Keating , the association’s president, said in a Sept. 6 letter.  Gensler said in the interview that the deadline “is firm
for the banks.”  Most money managers decided against using the platforms on
the first day, according to a poll conducted by Boston-based
researcher and consultant Tabb Group LLC. Of the 36 investment
firms in the survey, 77 percent said they didn’t use a Sef, 14
percent said they did, and 9 percent said they sent only test
trades. The investment firms in the poll manage more than $6
trillion.  Blind Agency  The agency is unable to keep a close eye on the markets
because of the shutdown.  “We have no ability at this point in time to monitor
markets, to do surveillance and investigations,” Gensler said
in an interview. “We’re but a skeleton staff. In many
departments we have no people at all. And in others, we have
people to just insure the technology and property is secure.”  About 30 of the agency’s 700 employees were working after
the Oct. 1 shutdown, with most floors of the building staffed by
one or two workers, according to people with knowledge of the
matter.  Many divisions have a handful of people on hand to monitor
markets or legal issues. The communications and legislative
affairs divisions are shut down, while some senior staff members
for the agency’s four commissioners have been furloughed.  SEC Challenge  One hiccup for the Sefs’ debut occurred after the SEC
warned two of the new facilities -- run by ICAP and GFI Group --
that they may run afoul of securities regulations by offering
swaps contracts that are supposed to be overseen by the
securities regulator, rather than the CFTC.  According to two people familiar with the issue, SEC
officials raised questions about a half dozen contracts,
including variance swaps, dividend swaps and swaps tied to
indexes on asset-backed securities, the people said. Also on the
SEC’s list were options on credit indexes -- the same type of
derivatives traded by JPMorgan’s so-called London Whale, Bruno Iksil.  While the Sefs disputed some of the SEC’s conclusions, they
removed the swaps from their electronic trading platforms so as
not to anger the SEC, the people said. The agency only
supervises about 5 percent of the market and it hasn’t completed
rules for electronic trading for those products, known as
security-based swaps. For now, that means they are mainly being
traded via the telephone.  ‘Complicated Rule’  The SEC “was saying, hold on a second, you’ve got to do
your due diligence,” said Julian Hammar, an attorney at the
Morrison & Foerster LLP law firm and former assistant general
counsel at the CFTC who helped draft Dodd-Frank regulations.
“It is a complicated rule.”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said agency officials
decided to reach out to the Sefs after being given a list of
products they were offering by the CFTC and noticing that a
number of them were based on securities.  The CFTC, which normally would have been involved, was
unable to participate in the calls because of the U.S.
government shutdown, he said.  Since the initial calls, the SEC has been in touch with
most of the new Sefs to review the guidelines for which products
fall under the jurisdiction of which agency, Nester said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  