-- German Bunds Rise on U.S. Funding Deadlock; ESM Starts Bond Sale
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-10-07T16:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/german-yields-approach-eight-week-low-after-u-s-default-warning.html
German  government bonds  rose with
haven assets around the world after U.S. Treasury Secretary
Jacob J. Lew said Congress needs to increase the debt ceiling by
Oct. 17 or the nation risks defaulting on its payments.  Benchmark  10-year bund yields  dropped toward the lowest
level in eight weeks as a government spokesman said  Germany  is
monitoring the U.S. budget dispute “very closely.” Austrian,
French and Dutch bonds also advanced. The European Stability
Mechanism, the region’s permanent rescue fund, hired banks for
its first bond sale. Portuguese notes rallied, sending two-year
yields to the lowest in seven weeks.  “We are watching for developments in the U.S. and the lack
of progress over the weekend seems to be slightly positive for
bonds,” said  Vincent Chaigneau , global head of rates and
foreign-exchange strategy at Societe Generale SA in Paris. “The
market is slightly risk off. We don’t think the U.S. is going to
default, for us that’s a very small probability.”  The 10-year  bund yield  fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.80 percent at 5 p.m. London time after
dropping to 1.74 percent on Sept. 30, the lowest level since
Aug. 13. The 2 percent security due in August 2023 rose 0.345,
or 3.45 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,358) face amount, to 101.765.
The yield climbed six basis points last week.  Austrian  10-year yields  declined four basis points to 2.19
percent, while similar-maturity Dutch rates fell three basis
points to 2.19 percent.  France ’s also dropped three basis
points, to 2.33 percent.  Budget Stalemate  The stalemate between the White House and House Republicans
showed little sign of thawing just 10 days from when Lew told
lawmakers the U.S. will exhaust measures to avoid breaching the
debt ceiling.  The House and Senate weren’t in session yesterday and there
were no meetings planned between the two sides. U.S. Speaker
 John Boehner  said the  House of Representatives  can’t pass an
increase to the debt ceiling without packaging it with other
provisions -- something President  Barack Obama  has ruled out.  “We’re observing this situation very closely, just as the
whole world is, and we hope that there can be an agreement
between the government and the parties in Congress,” Steffen Seibert, a German government spokesman, told reporters in
Berlin. “We hope there will be an agreement soon.”  ESM Sale  The ESM is selling five-year notes via banks, with HSBC
Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Societe Generale SA
leading the sale, according to a person familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be identified because they’re not
authorized to speak about it.  The fund is planning to sell at least 3 billion euros of
debt, Christophe Frankel, the fund’s chief financial officer,
said in an interview with Euroweek, according to an Oct. 4
transcript.  Germany is scheduled to sell 1 billion euros of five-year
inflation-indexed securities tomorrow. The nation also plans to
auction 4 billion euros of five-year conventional notes Oct. 9.  Portugal (GSPT10YR) ’s two-year yield fell 14 basis points to 4.63
percent after declining to 4.62 percent, the lowest since Aug.
21. The 10-year yield declined two basis points to 6.38 percent.  A statement from the  European Central Bank , European
Commission and  International Monetary Fund  last week said
approval of the eighth and ninth reviews of the country’s aid
plan may take place next month.  An index measuring  investor sentiment  in the euro region
fell to 6.1 this month from 6.5 in September, the Limburg,
Germany-based Sentix research institute said today. Economists
in a Bloomberg News survey predicted a reading of 8.5.  Volatility on German bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of the Netherlands and Ireland,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  German bunds lost 1.9 percent this year through Oct. 4,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. French securities
dropped 1.2 percent and Dutch bonds fell 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  