-- German Stocks Fall Amid U.S. Shutdown, Boehner Warning
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-10-07T07:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/german-stocks-fall-amid-u-s-shutdown-boehner-warning.html
German stocks  declined, after the
benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index fell last week, as U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  ruled out raising the federal government’s debt limit
without setting preconditions.  Norma Group SE dropped 3.4 percent after HSBC Holdings Plc
downgraded the shares.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  slid 1.4 percent after
Canaccord Genuity Corp. cut its rating on  Germany ’s largest
lender. TAG Immobilien AG tumbled 7.7 percent. EON SE and  RWE AG (RWE) 
climbed 1.3 percent and 1.4 percent, respectively, after Exane
BNP Paribas upgraded the utilities.  The DAX retreated 1.2 percent to 8,523 at 9:53 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . The equity benchmark slipped 0.4 percent last week as
a standoff between U.S. lawmakers led to the first government
shutdown in 17 years. The HDAX Index lost 1.1 percent today.  “The weekend passed and a compromise has not been found
yet,” Roger Peeters, chief executive officer at Close Brothers
Seydler Research in Frankfurt, wrote in an e-mail.
“Consequently, investors are again more nervous this morning.”  In the U.S., Democrat and Republican lawmakers continued to
clash over a spending measure to end the shutdown, a deadlock
that investors speculate will seep into talks to raise the
country’s $16.7 trillion debt ceiling.  Boehner has ruled out passing a bill to increase the
borrowing limit without attaching other conditions. His party is
calling for changes to President  Barack Obama ’s health-care act
before agreeing to a new budget.  “We are not going to pass a clean debt limit,” Boehner
said in an interview on ABC yesterday. “The votes are not in
the House to pass a clean debt limit.”  No Negotiation  The Obama administration has said it won’t negotiate with
Republicans over funding the government or raising the debt
ceiling, arguing that it is part of the basic function of
Congress and shouldn’t be used as leverage.  The Treasury has said it will exhaust measures to avoid
exceeding the borrowing limit on Oct. 17. If that happens, the
U.S. will run out of money to pay all of its bills at some point
between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office .  U.S. earnings season starts tomorrow with Alcoa Inc.
scheduled to release third-quarter results after the market
closes.  The VStoxx Index, which gauges the cost of protecting
against losses on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, surged 8.9 percent to
21.22 today.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 11 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  