-- GM Shows Revamped Escalade to Keep Large SUV a `Fantasy'
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-10-07T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/gm-shows-revamped-escalade-to-keep-large-suv-a-fantasy-.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Escalade, the
large sport-utility vehicle that fueled the imagery of rap music
and fictional gangsters, is getting a makeover.  GM tonight displayed a redesigned 2015 Cadillac Escalade in
New York with a sleeker exterior and a wood-trim interior that
are among the changes that the Detroit-based automaker has made 
to boost sales of the large luxury SUV.  “The 2015 Escalade is completely new and elevated in
design and technology,” Bob Ferguson, head of Cadillac, said in
a statement today. “The clear objective is to once again assume
the leadership position among luxury SUVs.”  The Escalade is one of 10 new or redesigned Cadillacs that
GM is bringing out in the U.S. by the end of 2015. The product
push includes the ATS, a compact sedan, which has helped
increase Cadillac U.S. sales 29 percent this year through
September.  U.S. sales of the all versions of the Escalade, which
peaked in 2004 at 62,250, fell to 23,340 last year, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. Sales of  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz
GL, a seven-seat SUV, rose 3.6 percent last year to 26,042.  Escalade faces more competition from high-end SUVs in
coming years.  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Maserati plans production of the
Levante SUV in 2015 while  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Bentley has said it
will start selling the world’s most expensive SUV at about
180,000 euros ($244,000) in three years. Rolls-Royce Motor Cars
Ltd., the ultra-luxury-car maker owned by  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) , has also said it is considering an SUV.  ‘Big Threat’  The current Escalade starts at  $63,745  with a fully loaded
version costing about $90,000, according to GM. The price of the
2015 model, which starts production in next year’s second
quarter, hasn’t been released.  “If people are spending that much money, they may opt for
a more exotic sounding nameplate,” Jessica Caldwell, an analyst
with Edmunds.com, a website that tracks auto sales, said.
“That’s a big threat.”  The success of the Escalade, which was first introduced in
October 1998, helped keep Cadillac culturally relevant as it
attempted to reignite interest in the luxury brand the past 15
years.  Tony Soprano, the mob boss played by James Gandolfini,
drove a Cadillac Escalade in  HBO ’s “The Sopranos.” Jennifer Lopez crowed about it. Ludacris even included it in his rap song
“What’s Your Fantasy?”  ‘A Statement’  “Anybody with power and who wanted to be noticed or make a
statement without having to say anything, that’s what they
drove,” Dave Sullivan, an analyst with AutoPacific Inc., said
today in a telephone interview. The model “brought people in
and got people to buy other Cadillacs even if they couldn’t
afford an Escalade.”  Escalade, which was last redesigned in 2006, also faces
competition from smaller, entry-level luxury SUVs, which are
more fuel efficient, Caldwell said. At Escalade’s 2004 sales
peak, gasoline averaged $1.81 a gallon in the U.S. compared with
$3.55 last year, according to Edmunds.  “It’s people being honest with themselves and downsizing
and not really needing the space that the Escalade has,”
Caldwell said. “The Escalade is great for an executive, Town
Car-like vehicle. But for a family it is a lot of space and
fairly large to maintain and keep around.”  While the large SUV market has fallen, they remain
profitable for the automaker. The SUVs are one of its strengths
even as it has pushed to create some of its best sedans in
generations, including the Chevrolet Impala, which Yonkers, New 
York-based Consumer Reports ranked best among all sedans.  Profit Margins  GM’s margins on the Escalade are probably 20 percent to 
30 percent while a mid-size sedan like the Malibu might be 
4 percent to 6 percent, Sullivan said. “It’s like a printing
press” for money, he said.  The jumbo-size Escalade ESV’s average transaction price, 
or what a customer paid after incentives, rose to $76,126 this 
year through September compared with $57,117 in 2003, according 
to Edmunds. The average transaction price in the luxury large 
SUV segment rose to $80,981 this year with Land Rover’s Range 
Rover leading the pack at $105,505.  Escalade shares engineering with Chevrolet and GMC large
SUVs, which are all built on the automaker’s truck platform that
was redesigned in 2013. GM dominates the large non-luxury SUV
segment. The combined segment market share of Chevy and GMC
large SUVs in the U.S. rose to 61 percent this year through July
compared with 58 percent in 2004, according to Edmunds.  Ford
Motor Co. (F) ’s large SUV market share fell to 11 percent this year
compared with 18 percent during all of 2004.  Richer Buyers  The Suburban-size Escalade ESV attracts a richer buyer 
than the Chevrolet Suburban, according to GM figures. The median
household income of an Escalade ESV owner is $259,060 compared
with $135,000 for the Suburban. The median income for buyers of
the smaller Escalade is $178,222 which is higher than the
$120,429 of the Cadillac brand, according to GM.  The regular Escalade is the size of a Chevrolet Tahoe.  The new Escalade’s interior is quieter and has seats
engineered to be more comfortable and look more sculpted, GM
said. The front seats have more than 1.5 inches (3.8
centimeters) of additional headroom and more than 4 inches of
additional legroom than the outgoing model.  “It’s all in the details in that segment,” Caldwell said.
“It has to be more of an upgrade in those so that you feel like
you’re surrounding yourself in luxury amenities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in New York at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  