-- Gunmen Gain Ground Among Lebanon Sunnis Emboldened by Syria War
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-10-07T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/gunmen-gain-ground-among-lebanon-sunnis-emboldened-by-syria-war.html
Four years ago, Mohamed Khalaf was an
aid worker among Sunni Muslims in Tripoli’s poorest
neighborhood. Now he’s leading a group of fighters against
gunmen loyal to the Syrian government.  An armed man stood guard outside Khalaf’s house in the
north Lebanese city’s Bab El-Tabbaneh district on a September
afternoon as he received visitors including a local member of
parliament. A Lebanese army vehicle was parked nearby, a
presence that residents say has done little to stop attacks,
forcing them to take up arms.  Firebrands like Khalaf are gradually gaining support among
Lebanon’s Sunnis who say their faith, the mainstream of Islam,
is under attack by Alawite and Shiite supporters of Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad. Hezbollah, the main pro-Assad group
in Lebanon, controls the country’s most powerful armed force.
The spread of violence is eroding state authority and pushing
Lebanon, whose economy relies on tourism and finance, deeper
into the sectarian conflict that engulfed its larger neighbor.  “We don’t wish it, but Hezbollah is dragging us” toward
war, Khalaf said in an interview in his living room, adding that
he sees himself rising up to the defense of the Sunni faith in a
wider conflict.  The war in  Syria  has sharpened religious divisions across
the Middle East, drawing in Saudi Arabia and Iran, respectively
the chief backers of Sunni and Shiite forces.  Past Bloodshed  Lebanon’s history is scarred with sectarian violence,
including a 1975-1990 civil war in which Syria was a key player
and U.S. and Israeli forces became involved. Sunnis, Shiites and
Maronite Christians are the largest among about 18 religious
groupings, and the country’s political system guarantees
representation and key government jobs for each.  Economic growth  has slowed amid the turmoil, to an average
of 1.5 percent in the last two years from 7 percent in 2010,
according to the International Monetary Fund. Tourism, more than
one-fifth of the economy in 2010, shrank 12.5 percent in the
first six months of this year after Gulf monarchies warned their
citizens against visiting. The slowdown and the influx of Syrian
refugees may double the unemployment rate to above 20 percent in
2014, the World Bank said last month.  While cash-rich local banks have helped keep Lebanon’s
 sovereign bonds  stable, the risk of escalation is prompting some
foreign investors to steer clear of the securities.  ‘Complete Chaos’  “Should Syria fall into complete chaos, this would
immediately have a contagion effect on Lebanon, with sectarian
battles occurring on a heavier” scale, said Sergey Dergachev,
who helps oversee about $9 billion at Union Investment in
 Frankfurt . He said he used to hold Lebanese bonds and wouldn’t
buy them now.  Even with the military balance of power favoring Hezbollah
and its allies, clashes are increasing in cities such as Tripoli
in the north and Sidon in the south, as well as areas in the
Bekaa Valley near the border with Syria. In June, gunmen loyal
to radical Sunni cleric Sheikh Ahmed al-Assir fought with
Lebanese army troops for two days near Sidon.  In Tripoli, explosions targeting Friday worshippers at two
mosques left 50 dead and 350 injured on Aug. 23.  A poster at one of the mosques, in the Bab El-Tabbaneh
district, illustrates how the Syrian conflict has penetrated
Lebanese society. It depicts three bloodied men, and announces
that they died fighting for the “dignity and glory of the
nation” in the Syrian town of al-Qusair.  Hezbollah’s Might  That was the site of a major battle earlier this year, and
the men in the poster were fighting alongside the Syrian rebels.
There were Lebanese on the other side at al-Qusair, too, as
Hezbollah sent members to support Assad’s forces, who eventually
took the town.  Khalaf, known as Abu Mounir, says he’s confident that when
the conflict in Lebanon escalates, “there will be money, and
there will be weapons” just as the Syrian rebels have been
getting help from Sunni-ruled Gulf states. “We won’t be left
alone,” he said.  For now, the inability of radical Sunnis to match
Hezbollah’s organization and military might is preventing
localized conflicts from evolving into an all-out war, said
Sahar Atrache, senior Lebanon analyst at the Brussels-based
International Crisis Group, which tracks conflict worldwide.  While “there are efforts among Sunni Islamists to build up
their military capacities,” they’re currently only able to
confront smaller pro-Syrian groups, she said.  Financial support for the Sunni gunmen in Bab El-Tabbaneh
is limited to donations of between about $2,000 and $10,000 each
from wealthy individuals to buy bullets and light weapons, said
Ahmed Nashar, 39, who also leads a group of fighters.  Car Bomb  “Some bought mortars, but in small quantities,” he said.
That pales in comparison with the Iranian-backed Hezbollah’s
arsenal, which enabled the group to hold its ground against
 Israel  in a monthlong war in July 2006.  Hezbollah says it won’t be dragged into a sectarian war
even as it comes under attack, including a car bomb that killed
more than a dozen in its stronghold in  Beirut ’s southern suburbs
in August.  Some of Hezbollah’s supporters are confident that the
balance of power will deter Sunnis from seeking an escalation.
“In such a war, you have to win or get your head chopped off,”
one supporter, who gave his name as Abbas Haider, said. “They
know they’ll get their heads chopped off.”  Dead Bodies  The gap, though, is closing as “Sunni groups in Lebanon
are becoming better and better armed,” increasing the risk of
civil war, according to Anna Boyd, a London-based Middle East
analyst at research firm IHS Inc. She said Sunnis in Syria and
Lebanon may get more military support from Gulf states seeking
to offset a possible rapprochement between the U.S. and their
enemy,  Iran .  The militias have gained prominence in the absence of
former Prime Minister Saad Hariri, who leads the main non-armed
political group that represents Lebanese Sunnis, the Future
Movement. Hariri’s father, also a one-time premier, was
assassinated in 2005, and he’s been living outside Lebanon for
months for security reasons.  “When the leader is absent, his institution is weakened a
bit,” Nuhad Salma, a lawyer and a Future official in northern
Lebanon, said in an interview over coffee in Tripoli. “But we
can’t blame him for being away.”  Salma, 34, ties the increase in radicalism among Sunnis to
poverty born out of a lack of investment. Nashar and Khalaf, who
have turned to armed struggle, say they’re driven by fears
rooted in history, recalling massacres of people from their
community during the 1980s civil war, when they were teenagers.  “Just to walk down the street, you had to weave your way
around the dead bodies,” said Nashar. “That’s why we have to
defend ourselves now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  