-- Icahn Buys 5.97% of Talisman, May Seek Talks With Company
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-10-08T20:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/icahn-buys-5-97-of-talisman-may-seek-talks-with-company.html
Activist investor  Carl Icahn  said he
has taken a 5.97 percent stake in Canadian energy producer
 Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  and may seek talks with management as the
company tries to sell assets.  Icahn has control of 61.6 million shares in the Calgary-based company through purchases of stock and options, according
to a filing yesterday. Icahn, who paid about $277 million, may
have conversations with management regarding “strategic
alternatives, board seats, etc.,” he said in a post on Twitter.  “The question is what he brings to the table,” Sameer Uplenchwar, managing director at Global Hunter Securities in
Calgary, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a buyer’s market
right now. And historically investor activism hasn’t always
worked well in  Canada .”  The purchase by Icahn comes as Chief Executive Officer Hal Kvisle is targeting sales or joint ventures for Talisman’s
assets in  Asia , the North Sea and North America. The company
“could” be split, and selling North Sea assets would be a
first step in focusing on North America, Kvisle said in May.  Talisman  fell  2 percent to C$12.89 at the close in Toronto.
The shares have dropped 29 percent in the past three years amid
slumping natural gas prices.  Icahn Activism  Icahn helped stir changes at Chesapeake Energy Corp. that
included last year’s hiring of a new chairman, Archie Dunham,
and the exit this year of Aubrey McClendon amid questions about
the CEO’s management of the oil and natural gas producer.  At Transocean Ltd., Chairman Michael Talbert departed and
the company reinstated its dividend, as well as planned cost
cuts and more debt repayments, after it was announced earlier
this year that Icahn had taken a stake in the world’s largest
offshore rig contractor.  Kvisle, who succeeded John Manzoni as Talisman’s CEO a year
ago, has pledged to make the company a “better performer.”  Talisman produces from five gas regions in  North America ,
including the Montney and Duvernay formations, and operates
internationally, with projects in the North Sea off the U.K. and
 Norway  as well as in  Indonesia .  Talisman sold a 49 percent stake in its U.K. unit to China
Petrochemical Corp. for $1.5 billion last year. Sinopec has a
veto over a possible successor to Talisman if the Canadian
company sells its remaining interest, Uplenchwar said, adding
that such a condition makes a sale of the assets more difficult.  Duvernay Formation  Talisman also has holdings in  Alberta ’s Duvernay formation
where companies are drilling gas that’s rich in petroleum
liquids, which sells for higher prices. Exxon Mobil Corp., the
world’s largest energy company by market value, agreed to buy
Duvernay holder Celtic Exploration Ltd. in October, and Chinese
state-owned PetroChina Co. acquired a 49.9 percent stake in
Encana Corp.’s Duvernay acreage.  Icahn’s purchase may be a distraction for management, said
Jennifer Stevenson, a vice president and portfolio manager with
Dynamic Funds.  “The course they’ve already stated is to maximize value
for shareholders,” said Stevenson, who helps manage C$100
billion and doesn’t own Talisman shares. “Now you have a
shareholder that wants something, I’m guessing wants something
more quickly. I think it could definitely speed up the process.
But some processes just take time.”  Possible Buyers  Kvisle said last month that about a dozen possible buyers
were looking at the company’s data rooms for its  North Sea 
assets. The company is considering a joint venture in the
Duvernay area and it wasn’t “practical” to join any of the
proposed liquefied natural gas projects in British Columbia,
Kvisle said at a Sept. 12 presentation in Toronto.  Talisman is expected to report a loss this year, the first
since 1998 and down from net income of $3.3 billion in 2008,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Talisman is targeting
$3 billion in asset sales or joint ventures in the next year to
reduce debt.  Canadian companies faced 42 cases of shareholder activism
in 2012, almost double the number in 2011, according to
Kingsdale Shareholder Services Inc. In February, Kingsdale CEO
Wes Hall predicted there would be even more in 2013.  Activist hedge funds including  Barry Rosenstein ’s Jana
Partners LLC and  William Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital
Management LP have pressed Canadian companies to change
management or spin off parts of their businesses.  In April, fertilizer producer Agrium Inc. rebuffed Jana’s
attempt to get the Calgary-based company to spin off its farm-supply retail stores. Last year, Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd.
cut jobs, shuttered rail yards and ran longer trains to try to
increase efficiency after Ackman succeeded in getting CEO  Fred
Green  replaced with  Hunter Harrison .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  