-- Tiger Woods Gets Winning Point as U.S. Defends Presidents Cup
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-10-07T04:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/tiger-woods-gets-winning-point-as-u-s-defends-presidents-cup.html
Tiger Woods shook off a back injury
to win the point that helped his U.S. team clinch a fifth
straight victory in golf’s  Presidents Cup .  Woods, the No. 1 player in the world golf ranking, beat
Richard Sterne of South Africa by one hole yesterday to take the
U.S. past the 17 1/2 points it needed for victory over a team of
international players. The host nation, with Fred Couples as
captain, won the biennial event by a score of 18 1/2 to 15 1/2
after holding a 14-8 lead going into yesterday’s 12 singles
matches at Muirfield Village Golf Club in Dublin,  Ohio .  “To have the opportunity to win the Cup for Freddie and
all the guys on the team, it means a lot to me,” Woods said at
a news conference. “To have trust in the guys and be able to go
out there and earn a point, it means a lot.”  The U.S. has an 8-1-1 record in the matches, which began in
1994 against players from countries outside Europe.  Woods has now recorded the clinching point at three
straight Presidents Cups, all with Couples as his captain.  “It makes me look great to be involved in this, but you
know, this is the third time I’ve had All-Star teams every
single time,” Couples said.  Play was suspended two days ago because of darkness with
four foursome matches -- in which teammates alternate hitting
shots with the same ball -- still on the course. Those matches
concluded yesterday, with the tee off times for the singles
brought forward because of a threat of rain.  Jason Day got the first point of the day with a 6-and-4
demolition of Brandt Snedeker, meaning the Australian led by six
holes with four left to play.  Mahan Wins  Hunter Mahan then defeated Japan’s Hideki Matsuyama 3-and-2
and Jason Dufner beat Brendon de Jonge of Zimbabwe 4-and-3 to
make the match score 16-9 to the U.S.  Moments after Graham DeLaet of Canada defeated Jordan
Spieth by one hole, Zach Johnson won 4-and-2 against South
African Branden Grace to leave the U.S. needing another half
point for victory. Adam Scott of  Australia  made it 17-11 with a
2-and-1 victory against Bill Haas and Ernie Els of South Africa
cut the deficit to five points with a one-hole victory over
Steve Stricker.  Marc Leishman from Australia kept the match alive with a
one-hole win against Matt Kuchar before Woods gave his team an
insurmountable 18-14 lead with the final two matches still on
the course. Woods, who said he hurt his back while playing the
14th hole, took the lead for good when Sterne made a bogey at
the par-3 16th hole.  “It went out on me at 14 and from then on, it just kept
getting worse,” Woods said about his back injury. “But, I got
a point for our team so that’s all that matters. We played a lot
of holes and a lot of start, stopping the last couple days, so a
lot of guys on our team are dinged up.”  Webb Simpson  halved his match against Louis Oosthuizen of
South Africa and Angel Cabrera of Argentina won the final two
holes against Phil Mickelson to pull out a 1-up victory after
the title had been decided.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 