-- Time Warner Cable Agrees to Acquire DukeNet for $600 Million
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-10-07T20:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/time-warner-cable-agrees-to-acquire-dukenet-for-600-million-1-.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-largest U.S. cable company, agreed to buy fiber-optic network
provider DukeNet Communications LLC for $600 million in cash,
bolstering its business services in the Southeast.  Time Warner Cable is acquiring the business from  Duke
Energy Corp. (DUK)  and investment funds managed by Alinda Capital
Partners, according to a statement today. The deal, which
includes the repayment of debt, is expected to close in the
first quarter of 2014, assuming it passes regulatory hurdles.  DukeNet, based in  Charlotte , North Carolina, operates an
8,700-mile (14,000-kilometer) fiber-optic network for wireless
carriers, data centers, government customers and corporate
clients. Time Warner Cable plans to use DukeNet to expand its
business services in seven Southeastern states, including North
and South Carolina.  “Business services is a key growth area for Time Warner
Cable and this acquisition will greatly enhance our already
growing fiber network to better serve customers, particularly
those in key markets in the Carolinas,” Phil Meeks, chief
operating officer of business services for the New York-based
cable company, said in the statement.  Time Warner Cable received legal counsel from Edwards
Wildman Palmer LLP on the deal. RBC Capital Markets LLC served
as a financial adviser to Duke Energy and Alinda, while Moore &
Van Allen PLLC provided legal counsel.  The acquisition follows Time Warner Cable’s $230 million
purchase of NaviSite Inc., a 2011 deal that also brought it more
business customers.  Time Warner Cable shares dropped 1.6 percent to $111.02 in
New York. Duke Energy was little changed, closing at $66.34.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  