-- IMF Staff Sees Korea, Canada, Australia Well Placed for QE Taper
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-10-07T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/imf-staff-sees-korea-canada-australia-well-placed-for-qe-taper.html
Canada ,  South Korea  and  Australia  are
among the countries best placed to weather any global market
volatility from the withdrawal of U.S. monetary stimulus,
according to the International Monetary Fund staff.  In a report released today, IMF staff gauged the likelihood
of capital outflows in 13 major developed and emerging economies
when the  Federal Reserve  starts paring its $85 billion in
monthly assets purchases. The study also estimated the nations’
ability to withstand such volatility, looking at criteria such
as currency reserves and reliance on foreign funding.  “Some capital flow reversal and higher borrowing costs are
to be expected, but further volatility could emerge, even if
exit is well managed,” the staff wrote in the report.
“Affected countries should proactively take steps to enhance
fundamentals, as this will provide more room for policy maneuver
later.”  Bond prices slumped internationally and emerging-market
stocks plunged after May 22, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said for the first time the Fed could withdraw stimulus “in the
next few meetings” so long as the economic outlook showed
sustainable improvement. Those markets rebounded after the Fed
decided last month to continue its quantitative-easing program.  The  Institute of International Finance , a Washington-based
industry group that represents global financial institutions,
today cut its 2013 forecasts for capital inflows by $83 billion
compared with a June prediction, to $1.06 trillion.  Compounded Weaknesses  “Rising global  interest rates  in anticipation of Fed exit
have compounded domestic weaknesses” in  emerging markets ,
according to the institute.  The IMF report and its attached study both pre-date the
Fed’s Sept. 18 announcement of its decision to refrain from
tapering bond buying. Economists of the Washington-based fund
stopped short of spelling out which nations, among the economies
that don’t use unconventional monetary policies, face the
greatest risks from the Fed’s exit.  In  India , “in the event of significant outflows, overall
policy room is limited,” they wrote in one of the reports.
Indonesia’s long-term rates “are historically highly sensitive
to U.S. monetary policy shocks,” according to the report. If
faced with large outflows, Indonesia’s “fiscal policy space
seems limited.”  While  Mexico  “can accommodate higher interest rates” if
need be, such a move in  South Africa  “would further squeeze an
economy that is growing below its potential,” the staff said in
the report. China and Russia are less exposed because of their
lower dependence on foreign funding, they said.  QE Exit  The report, called “Global Impact and Challenges of
Unconventional Monetary Policies,” explores the dangers
attached to the withdrawal of quantitative easing and what
central banks from the U.K. to  Japan  can do to mitigate them.  “The path for future interest rates is clouded by
uncertainty as to central banks’ policy plans,” the IMF
economists wrote. Another possible source of volatility in long-term rates is the “somewhat greater challenges in controlling
market interest rates” central banks face because of a large
surplus of liquidity in the system, they wrote.  The report’s main advice to policy makers is to
communicate, including on the principles guiding potential asset
sales. Officials should make clear that increases in short-term
policy rates will not come too fast and will reflect the
economic outlook, they said.  Recent forward guidance by the Fed and the  Bank of England 
“about economic thresholds has set the market up for
incremental adjustments as the economy makes progress, although
there is the risk that thresholds may need to be reconsidered as
the recovery progresses,” they said.  Bernanke said in June he expected the Fed would complete
its bond buying around mid-2014 with the jobless level at around
7 percent. Policy makers have pledged since December they won’t
consider raising interest rates as long as the jobless rate
exceeds 6.5 percent. Last month Bernanke downplayed the 7
percent threshold, saying unemployment “is not necessarily a
great measure” of the job market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  