-- Indonesian Tin Exports Tumble to Six-Year Low on Trade Rule
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-10-07T09:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/tin-exports-from-indonesia-slump-to-six-year-low-on-trading-rule.html
Tin exports from  Indonesia , the
world’s largest shipper, plunged to the lowest level in at least
six years as a new rule requiring that the metal be traded on a
local exchange before shipment restricted cargoes.  Shipments of the metal used in smartphones and packaging
fell 88 percent to 786 metric tons last month from August, data
from the Trade Ministry showed today. That’s lowest since at
least February 2007, when the government began monitoring sales.
Exports in September were lower than the 3,000 tons seen by PT
Timah last month, and the 9,874 tons shipped in September 2012.  Tin rallied to a six-month high in  London  last week after
the policy took effect and smelters curbed exports, with only
one exchange in Jakarta authorized to trade ingots before export.
The rule is aimed at helping Indonesia displace the London Metal
Exchange as the venue for setting the benchmark price, according
to the Commodity Futures Trading Regulatory Agency. Tin has the
best outlook among the six main industrial metals because of
global shortages, said  Standard Bank  Group Ltd.  The rule’s “objective is how we can create a reasonable
price,” Sukrisno, president director at PT Timah, said in an
interview on Bloomberg TV Indonesia today, before the trade data
was released. Timah, based in Pangkalpinang, Bangka Belitung, is
Indonesia’s largest tin exporter, and the company declared force
majeure on shipments last month as some customers had yet to
adapt to the new regulation, which took effect on Aug. 30.  Price Rally  Tin for delivery in three months declined 2.1 percent to
$23,500 a ton on the LME at 4:24 p.m. in Jakarta. Futures
advanced 5.5 percent to $24,000 a ton on Oct. 4, the highest
price since March. Tin has outperformed the five other main base
metals on the LME over the past 12 months, including copper,
aluminum and nickel.  “We have found it quite a challenge to get high-purity
tin,” said Chen Tien Yue,  executive director  at Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia-based Royal Selangor International Sdn Bhd., where tin
accounts for an average of 50 percent of the production cost of
its pewter products. “The reduction in supply has clearly been
pushing the prices up.”  Exports from Indonesia in September comprised 400 tons of
ingots and 386 tons of solder, according to ministry data based
on surveyors’ reports. Sales in the first nine months of the
year fell 3.3 percent to 68,788 tons compared with the same
period a year earlier, Bloomberg calculations show.  ICDX Only  At present, only the Indonesia Commodity and Derivatives
Exchange in Jakarta, or ICDX, is allowed to trade tin ingots
before export from  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy. The
commodity-trading regulator hasn’t approved a proposal from the
Jakarta Futures Exchange to trade another tin contract, said
Deputy Trade Minister Bayu Krisnamurthi today.  Refined tin will be in deficit through 2016, while copper,
aluminum and zinc are oversupplied, Standard Bank said in a
report today. Stockpiles of tin in warehouses tracked by the LME
dropped 13 percent last month, the biggest loss since January
2012, and stood at unchanged 13,195 tons today.  Royal Selangor buys tin from the LME through spot and
forward contracts, and takes delivery from the LME’s warehouses
in Johor,  Malaysia , said Chen. That matches the company’s
requirements as its plant is in  Kuala Lumpur , within trucking
distance from Johor, said Chen.  The Indonesian policy change is part of wider government
efforts to boost the value of commodity shipments. The rule
applies to ingots at present and will be extended to other tin
products such as solder from 2015.  “Timah’s sales volume may drop this year but that’s
fine,” said Sukrisno. “Our stockpiles will increase and prices
will also gain. Hopefully, tin can reach $25,000 by December,”
he said, calling on other producers to join the ICDX.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  