-- India Invites National Solar Bids After 2-Year Gap
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-07T07:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/india-invites-national-solar-bids-after-2-year-gap.html
India called for bids to build 750
megawatts of solar plants in its first national auction since
2011 and is offering about  18.75 billion rupees  ($303 million)
in grants.  Bids are due by Nov. 29, state-run Solar Energy Corp. of
India  said  on its website. Tender documents will be available
from next week. Developers will submit bids specifying the funds
they’re seeking and the lowest bidders will win. The government
grants will cover as much as 30 percent of the project cost.  Companies such as Welspun Group, backed by  Leon Black ’s
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , and billionaire Vinod Khosla’s
Sunborne Energy Holdings LLC have built nearly 2,000 megawatts
of solar capacity and cut average costs by more than half since
India began auctioning licenses through its National Solar
Mission in 2010. The program seeks to reduce solar power costs
to levels in line with other forms of grid-supplied electricity
by 2017.  Of the 750 megawatts, 350 megawatts must be built with
domestically manufactured solar cells and panels, according to
revised  rules  published on the Ministry of New and Renewable
Energy’s website.  Forcing projects to buy local equipment will raise costs
and compromise quality, Vineet Mittal, managing director of
Welspun Energy Ltd., India’s biggest photovoltaic developer,
said in an August interview.  The government will stagger disbursal of the grants to
ensure projects meet milestones, the ministry’s rules show.
Fifty percent will be paid upon plant completion and the balance
in 10 percent increments over the following five years, if
generation targets are met.  Investors will be able to sell their projects after a one-year, lock-in period.  Moser Baer India Ltd. (MBI) ,  Lanco Infratech
Ltd. (LANCI) ,  Indosolar Ltd. (ISLR) , and  Websol Energy System Ltd. (WESL)  are among
the biggest Indian makers of solar equipment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  