-- Indian Rupee, Bonds Fall on Concern U.S. Shutdown to Cut Inflows
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-10-07T11:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/indian-rupee-bonds-fall-on-concern-u-s-shutdown-to-cut-inflows.html
India’s rupee snapped a three-day
gain on speculation foreign investors will reduce purchases of
the nation’s stocks as U.S. lawmakers remain deadlocked over
extending the debt ceiling.  With the U.S. set to exhaust measures to avoid breaching
the borrowing limit on Oct. 17, House of Representatives Speaker
 John Boehner  said lawmakers won’t raise the threshold without
packaging it with other provisions, a nonstarter for President
 Barack Obama . India’s S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  index of shares fell as
much as 1.4 percent, while bonds also declined. The rupee’s
losses were limited as exporters were seen converting overseas
earnings, according to  Andhra Bank. (ANDB)   “The equity market is weak amid global concerns and that’s
what’s hitting the rupee,” said Vikas Babu, a trader at state-run Andhra Bank in Mumbai. “Inflows are essential for India and
so sentiment is a bit weak.”  The rupee dropped 0.6 percent to 61.7950 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It rose 1.7 percent last week, the best performance
among the 11 most-traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 14.98 percent.  The yield on 7.16 percent sovereign bonds due May 2023
climbed seven basis points to 8.68 percent, according to prices
from the central bank’s trading system. The  Reserve Bank  of
India bought 99.74 billion rupees of bonds at an open-market
auction today, compared with the 100 billion it offered to
purchase, the RBI said in an e-mailed statement.  Offshore Forwards  Obama, in an interview with the  Associated Press , said he
expects Congress to reach an agreement to raise the nation’s
$16.7 trillion debt limit in time to avert a default.  Raghuram
Rajan , India’s central bank governor, said in an Oct. 4 speech
in the eastern city of Raipur that the country’s current-account
deficit may be under control and monsoons will help reduce
inflation.  One-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.6 percent to 62.43
per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts declined 0.6 percent to 62.44. Forwards
are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.
Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  