-- India Eases Cash Crunch at Banks, Leaves Benchmark Unchanged
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-10-08T05:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/india-cuts-msf-rate-to-ease-cash-squeeze-after-climb-in-rupee.html
India ’s central bank rolled back
further an emergency step taken to shore up its currency as the
rupee’s continued stabilization allowed it to relax liquidity
for the nation’s banks.  Governor  Raghuram Rajan  lowered the  marginal standing
facility rate  to 9 percent from 9.5 percent, the  Reserve Bank  of
India said in a statement yesterday, the second cut in less than
a month. The benchmark for monetary policy, the  repurchase rate ,
was left at 7.5 percent. Rajan raised the repo rate last month
to fight elevated inflation.  The rupee has climbed about 12 percent versus the dollar
since reaching a record low in August, among the world’s best
performers in that time, boosted by Rajan’s steps to attract
inflows of the U.S. currency. The governor, a former
International Monetary Fund chief economist, took over at the
RBI in September and has said he plans a measured rollback of
liquidity curbs imposed on the banking system in July.  “The rupee’s trading strong so they’ve got a very good
window of opportunity to unwind some of these quantitative
tightening measures,” said Mirza Baig, head of foreign-exchange
and interest-rate strategy at BNP Paribas SA in  Singapore . Rajan
is “saying the right things and he’s being more orthodox in
terms of how he’s running monetary policy,” he said.  The currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 61.65 per dollar as
of 10:35 a.m. in Mumbai. The S&P BSE Sensex index of stocks rose
0.9 percent. The yield on the 10-year bond maturing May 2023
decreased to 8.51 percent from 8.68 percent yesterday.  Policy Benchmark  Cutting the MSF rate will help put the focus on the repo
rate as the benchmark, Baig said.  The MSF borrowing cost will probably be reduced by a
quarter of a percentage point at the policy review due Oct. 29,
Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. said. The repo rate will be boosted by
the same magnitude at that meeting, Kotak added.  The impact of yesterday’s decision on the  Indian rupee  is
“ambiguous,”  Sean Callow , a Sydney-based senior currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp., wrote in a research note.
While easier monetary conditions could attract foreign inflows
to stocks, they also reduce “the yield support for the rupee,”
he said.  Rajan offered concessional swaps for banks’ foreign-currency deposits and borrowings to encourage them to raise
dollars after taking over at the RBI. That spurred the rupee’s
recent gains, helping to pare its drop in the past 12 months to
about 16 percent.  Fed Delay  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision to postpone tapering of
monetary stimulus has also aided the rupee, said Tirthankar Patnaik, a Religare Capital Markets Ltd. strategist in Mumbai.  The RBI, which also lowered the bank rate to 9 percent,
will provide additional liquidity to the banking system,
according to yesterday’s  statement . The decisions came between
scheduled policy reviews.  Rajan faces the challenge of guiding a slowing economy
where consumer-price inflation is almost 10 percent. Gross
domestic product growth will cool to 4 percent in the fiscal
year ending March 2014, according to HSBC Holdings Plc. That
would be the weakest pace in more than a decade.  Rajan’s predecessor  Duvvuri Subbarao  increased both the MSF
and bank rates by 200 basis points in July to try and contain
the drop in the currency, which has been weighed down by a
current-account deficit, price pressures and slowing growth.  The gap between the MSF and repo rates will eventually be
lowered to 100 basis points, Rajan said on Sept. 20 in his first
policy review. He reduced the MSF rate by 75 basis points that
day, while increasing the repo rate by a quarter point and
pledging to fight inflation.  “There’s less need to maintain the interest-rate defense
with the currency stabilizing,” said Shubhada Rao, chief
economist at Yes Bank Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  