-- Innovatio, Cadbury, Comcast: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-08T03:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/innovatio-cadbury-comcast-intellectual-property.html
A federal judge set 9.56 cents per
chip as the value of contested patents used in wireless computer
network technology in a case by patent-holder Innovatio IP
Ventures LLC against electronic device makers  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO) ,  Netgear Inc. (NTGR)  and  Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)   The ruling issued Oct. 3 by U.S. District Judge James
Holderman in  Chicago  stops short of fixing damages in the two-year-old litigation because the parties agreed to allow him to
determine the royalty value before considering whether the
patents were valid or infringed.  “The court hopes that by doing so, the possibility of
settlement will be enhanced because the parties will be better
able to evaluate the potential risks and benefits of expending
additional resources in the litigation,” Holderman said.  Innovatio IP, based in Chicago, accuses the defendants,
which also include  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  unit
SonicWALL, and businesses that bought Wi-Fi devices made by the
manufacturers, of infringing its portfolio of patents.  Holderman, citing an April ruling by U.S. District Judge
James Robart in  Seattle  in a patent dispute between Google
Inc.’s Motorola Mobility Holdings unit and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , said
the payment rate was based in part on an agreement by the
patents’ original owner,  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , that they were
essential to Wi-Fi technology and that license fees should be
fixed at reasonable and non-discriminatory, or RAND, terms.  Attorneys for Innovatio IP and for Cisco said it was too
soon to estimate potential damages.  Innovatio IP “still has a number of hoops to jump through
before they can get anything,”  Mark Chandler , general counsel
for  San Jose , California-based Cisco, said in a phone interview.  Holderman presided over a non-jury trial last month, during
which he heard evidence on the RAND rate to which Innovatio IP
would be entitled, and limited, if it proved infringement, he
said in his ruling.  The case is In re Innovatio IP Ventures LLC, 11-cv-09308,
in the U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  23andMe’s Patent Slammed for ‘Designer Babies’ Potential  The  Center for Genetics and Society , an advocacy group
based in Berkeley,  California , asked a genetics-testing company
to disavow its newly issued patent or to use it to bar others
from the technology it covers.  Patent 8,543,339, which was issued Sept. 24 to 23andMe
Inc., covers gamete donor selection based on genetic
calculations.  Prospective parents can select the donors of their future
child’s genetic material based on a wide range of genetically
determined characteristics, such as propensity for certain kinds
of diseases, as well as eye color, muscle performance, and
personality characteristics, according to the patent.  The Center for Genetics and Society said this technology
would enable prospective parents to “go shopping for designer
donors in an effort to produce designer babies.”  In its Oct. 2  statement , the center said that the patent
office “made a serious mistake in allowing a patent that
includes drop-down menus from which to choose a future child’s
traits.”  Such a project would be “ethically and socially
treacherous,” Marcy Darnovsky, the center’s executive director
said in the statement.  She warned that this project could foster the “false
belief” that biology trumps social, economic and environmental
conditions in influencing our health and well-being.’’ It also
could again raise the specter of eugenics, she said. The
practice of eugenics is  specifically barred  by the Charter of
Fundamental Rights of the European Union.  23andMe, based in  Mountain View , California, didn’t respond
immediately to an e-mailed request for a response to the
center’s statement.  Application for the patent was filed in December, 2009,
with the assistance of  Van Pelt Yi & James LLP  of Cupertino,
California.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Alibaba’s Ads for Electronic Hookah Device Said to Infringe  Alibaba.com, a Chinese business-to-business e-commerce
company, was sued for trademark infringement by a company that
produces electronic smoking devices.  In the complaint filed Sept. 30 in federal court in Santa
Ana, California,  Fantasia Distribution Inc.  said Alibaba.com is
running ads for electronic hookahs made by Fantasia’s
competitors but featuring the “Fantasia” trademark.  Fantasia also said the ads contained photos of its
disposable electronic hookah products, and, in one instance, a
photo of a Fantasia employee it claimed was lifted from its
website.  The Anaheim, California-based company said that, to no
avail, it put Alibaba.com on notice that the infringement was
occurring and asked the removal of such ads.  Fantasia said although an Alibaba.com representative said
the offending listings would cease, they haven’t. It claims to
be harmed by Alibaba.com’s actions and said the public is likely
to assume falsely that a connection exists between Fantasia and
the hookahs sold by its competitors.  The company asked the court to order Alibaba.com to quit
running the allegedly infringing ads, and for awards of money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  John Spelich, an Alibaba.com spokesman, said in an e-mail
that the company hasn’t seen the complaint and would reserve
comment until it’s reviewed.  The case is Fantasia Distribution Inc., v. Alibaba.com
Inc., 8:13-cv-01533, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Santa Ana).  Cadbury’s Purple Reign Ended by U.K. Court in Nestle Appeal  Nestle SA (NESN)  won a U.K. Court of Appeal ruling in a trademark
case against  Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ) ’s Cadbury unit over
purple packaging for milk chocolate.  Nestle, the world’s biggest food company, got a reversal of
an October 2012 decision that ruled the color purple was
distinctive to the maker of Dairy Milk bars. The ruling allows
Nestle, and any other confectioners, to sell chocolate products
with the same colored wrapping.  Cadbury, the U.K.’s biggest chocolate maker, used a pale
mauve color as early as 1905 and its packaging has featured
purple and gold dating back to 1920, according to the company
website. The dispute dates back to 2008, when Vevey,
Switzerland-based Nestle opposed Cadbury’s initial application
for a color trademark.  The trademark applied for “lacks the required clarity,
precision, self-containment, durability and objectivity to
qualify for registration,” Judge John Mummery said in the
ruling handed down Oct. 4.  Cadbury is studying the ruling and will consider whether to
appeal, it said in an e-mailed statement.  “Our color purple has been linked with Cadbury for a
century and the British public has grown up understanding its
link with our chocolate,” Cadbury said.  Mondelez, which also makes Oreo cookies, was created in a
split of  Kraft Foods Group Inc. (KRFT)  last year. The Deerfield,
Illinois-based Mondelez had a 20.5 percent share of the western
European chocolate confectionery market in 2012, according to
Bloomberg Industries data.  “We believe this was the right outcome from a legal
perspective,” James Maxton, a spokesman for Nestle, said in an
e-mailed statement.  The case is Societe Des Produits Nestle v Cadbury U.K. Ltd.
in the U.K. Court of Appeal, civil division, case no.
A3/2012/2702  Taipei Zoo Plans to Register Baby Panda’s Name as Trademark  The  Taipei Zoo , in an effort to leverage the popularity of
its  three-month-old female panda , said it will register her name
as a trademark, the Taipei Times  reported .  The panda’s name is  Yuan  Zai, which is also the name of a
company’s glutinous rice products, according to the newspaper.  To avoid confusion, the zoo said the name it will register
is “Giant Panda Yuan Zai,” the Times reported.  The mark would be used on toys, stationery, postcards,
trinkets and other souvenirs, according to the newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Comcast Tells TorrentFreak It Sometimes Acts Without Court Order  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the cable television and Internet service
provider, told the TorrentFreak anti-copyright news website that
it doesn’t necessarily wait for a court order before terminating
the account of subscribers who are caught multiple times
infringing copyrights.  The Philadelphia-based company, which is a member of the
Copyright Alert system that warns infringers, said that court
orders aren’t necessary because termination is a requirement of
the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, TorrentFreak  reported .  Under the DMCA, service providers are required to take
action against “persistent pirates,” according to
TorrentFreak.  The Copyright Alert system requires member Internet service
providers to keep a log of the number of infringement notices
sent to repeat infringers, TorrentFreak reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  