-- Ironman World Championship Signs Title Sponsorship With GoPro
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-10-07T13:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/ironman-world-championship-signs-title-sponsorship-with-gopro.html
World Triathlon Corp. reached a title
sponsorship agreement with GoPro, the wearable camera company,
for this weekend’s Ironman World Championship triathlon in
 Hawaii .  GoPro, a unit of Woodman Labs Inc.’s whose cameras have
captured video while mounted on the tips of surfboards and the
wings of stunt airplanes, will use more than 100 portable units
during the 140.6-mile (226.3-kilometer) race in Kailua-Kona,
Hawaii.  “This is a great way for us to be able to showcase great
new ways for people to be able to understand what a race like
this really is,” Andrew Messick, chief executive officer of
Ironman, said in a telephone interview. “We will hopefully be
able to show some sides to the race that we haven’t been able to
show before.”  Todd Ballard, GoPro’s director of sports marketing, said in
a statement that his company was excited by the partnership,
while declining to discuss financial terms. Messick also
declined to comment on the contract’s value with the San Mateo,
California-based company and said World Triathlon Corp., owned
by Providence Equity partners, was in discussions to possibly
extend the agreement beyond 2013.  “Every sports organization’s goal in a perfect world is to
have long-term partners and that’s what we strive for and that’s
what we’re confident we’re going to have,” Messick said.  Ford Motor Co. was the race’s title sponsor from 2005
through 2011. The company decided not to renew its agreement,
which covered a total of 12 North American Ironman races, for
the 2012 event. MyList, an Orlando, Florida-based Facebook
application, was the race’s presenting sponsor last year.  Underwater Shots  During this year’s race, GoPro cameras will be placed
underwater, on bicycles on the course and at other locations.
For the first time, race referees also will be equipped with
helmet-cameras to provide video evidence of infractions that
might happen during the race, such as illegal drafting between
competitors during the cycling portion.  “We want a clean race,” Messick said. “And to be able to
rely on objective video information is something that has never
happened in the sport before.”  The Ironman World Championship, first held in 1978,
consists of a 2.4-mile swim, a 112-mile cycling leg and a 26.2-mile marathon. This year’s edition is scheduled for Oct. 12.  Comcast. Corp.’s NBC will air the race as part of a special
program on Nov. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  