-- J-Lo Wins Equality Award, Downton’s McGovern: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-10-07T08:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/j-lo-wins-equality-award-downton-s-mcgovern-d-c-scene.html
Jennifer Lopez received the 2013 Ally
for Equality Award from the  Human Rights Campaign  Saturday night
at its annual national dinner.  Due to the government shutdown, Vice President Joseph Biden
skipped the affair at the  Washington  Convention Center, packed
with 3,400 gay rights leaders and activists.  President  Barack Obama  sent a video message praising the
group’s victories this year, saying he and Biden were working
with Republicans on a budget compromise so “gay and straight
people can return to work.”  There was an audible rise in enthusiasm when Lopez turned
on the white carpet in her Zuhair Murad gown.  “You make me so proud to be a woman,” she told Gloria Steinem who presented her with the award.  Sporting cowboy boots under her black dress, Steinem said
she was proud “to be a girl from East Toledo introducing Jenny
from the block.”  Lopez received the award primarily for her decision to
produce “The Fosters,” a program on ABC family about a
biracial, lesbian couple raising children.  Guests included the show’s lead actress Teri Polo, civil
rights activist Julian Bond and Democratic strategist Hilary
Rosen.  Favorite Aunt  Lopez said one of her favorite aunts was a lesbian, and
that she related to “The Fosters,” because “I’m a single mom
raising kids in a non-traditional family. I embraced it.”  She said she’s looking forward to attending more gay
weddings. “The invites from my gay friends are pouring in.”  “Downton Abbey” actress Elizabeth McGovern accepted the
Will Award for Classical Theatre from the  Shakespeare Theatre
Company  at its annual gala at the Harman Center for the Arts
last night.  She quoted one of her favorite Bard heroines, Rosalind from
“As You Like It,” when she told the crowd “I would kiss as
many of you as had beards that pleased me.”  Among the potential kiss recipients were Supreme Court
Justice Samuel Alito, Vermont Democrat Senator Patrick Leahy,
German Ambassador Peter Ammon and Ron Klain, former chief of
staff to the vice president who is on the short list to be the
next general counsel to the president.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Manuela Hoelterhoff on opera,
Frederik Balfour on auctions,  Elin McCoy  on wine and Martin Gayford on art.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 