-- Karen Strauss Cook, Goldman Trader Who Backed Moms, Dies at 61
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-10-07T00:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/karen-strauss-cook-goldman-trader-who-backed-moms-dies-at-61.html
Karen Strauss Cook, a pioneering
female equity trader at Goldman, Sachs & Co. who helped other
working moms stay in finance and will be honored next month by
the group 100 Women in Hedge Funds, has died. She was 61.  She died at her home in  Manhattan  on Oct. 2, according to
her husband, Everett R. Cook II. The cause was progressive
supranuclear palsy, a neurodegenerative brain disease that was
diagnosed in 2008.  Cook stood out on Wall Street from the day in 1975 when she
paid an unsolicited visit to the headquarters of  Goldman Sachs (GS) ,
resume in hand, and drew the attention of then-general partner
 Robert Rubin , the future U.S. Treasury secretary, by refusing to
accept a generic referral to human resources. She became the
first woman hired in Goldman Sach’s Equities Division, and the
firm’s first female trader.  “I remember those early days when she came,” Rubin said
yesterday in an interview. “In those days it was a complicated
role to have, being the first woman trader. She handled it very,
very well. She was effective and gracious.”  Her departure from the firm -- which became Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. when it went public in 1999 -- was noteworthy as
well. She left in 1987 to spend more time with her sons, then 2
and 4, and later to cofound an executive-search firm geared to
helping women find part-time work in finance.  Steinhardt Years  In recent years, she worked for  Michael Steinhardt  at his
hedge fund, Steinhardt Partners LP, which was wound down in
1995, and then for its successor, New York-based Steinhardt
Management Co. In “No Bull,” his 2001 memoir, Steinhardt said
the book “would not have been written were it not for the
determination of Karen Cook, who, in addition to keeping a keen
eye on my investments, managed to harass, cajole, humor and in
general intimidate me into writing it.”  The professional organization  100 Women in Hedge Funds  said
in June that Cook would receive its U.S. Industry Leadership
Award at its gala in  New York  on Nov. 13.  Cook’s husband will accept the award on her behalf, Amanda
Pullinger, the group’s executive director, said yesterday in an
interview.  “She was one of what we call our charter angels,”
Pullinger said. “There were 60 women who each gave $1,000 in
the early days. She supported us every year until she became too
sick to do so. She also participated in education sessions and
came to a number of our senior practitioner events, which we put
on for senior women in the industry.”  Seeking Experience  Karen Mary Strauss was born on April 7, 1952, in Yonkers,
New York, to Anthony J. Strauss, an engineer at CBS television,
and the former Marion Hanney, a fifth-grade teacher. She
graduated from Wheaton College in Norton,  Massachusetts , in 1974
with a bachelor’s degree in philosophy.  Accepted by the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton
School, she deferred admission to gain experience on Wall
Street. She was working as a floor clerk at the  New York Stock
Exchange (NYX)  when she decided to deliver her resume in person to
someone on the Goldman Sachs equities desk.  In a chapter for “More Than 85 Broads,” Janet Hanson’s
2006 book on women who have worked for Goldman Sachs (which once
had its headquarters at 85 Broad St.), Cook described her
standoff with a receptionist who wouldn’t divulge the name of
anyone in equities to whom she could send her resume:  “She’s not budging and now neither am I. For several
minutes we go round and round, until I notice someone pacing
back and forth in the hallway just behind us. He finally stops,
turns to me, and asks, ‘Who are you and what is it that you
want?’”  Rubin’s Interview  It was Rubin, who interviewed her on the spot. Two weeks
and 11 interviews later, she was hired as an equity trader by
Robert Mnuchin, who became co-head of the firm’s trading and
arbitrage the following year.  During her 12 years trading blocks of stock -- an activity
that boomed following the abolition of fixed commissions on May
1, 1975 -- Cook gave up on Wharton and studied for her MBA at
night at New York University’s Stern School of Business.  “My typical day consisted of waking up early, working on
the trading desk at Goldman, rushing out to evening classes at
NYU, and going out on a date after that, sometimes ending up in
the wee hours at Studio 54,” Cook recalled. “All I can say is
that what I had going for me then was my age.”  Most nights, she dragged her co-worker,  Richard Perry  --
known today as founder of Perry Capital LLC -- to class with
her.  “She was an inspiration, a role model, and a great
friend,” Perry said yesterday in an e-mail. “She will be
terribly missed by all who knew her.”  Cook earned her MBA in 1979.  Workplace Dilemma  By 1987, she was a Goldman Sachs vice president with a
husband, two young sons, two dogs and a cat. With “no role
models for me, no sage sources of advice, no policies or
procedures for part-time,” she gave up her job for full-time
motherhood.  “I sat on park benches for the next two years conversing
with other women who had dropped out of the workforce -- many of
whom, like me, had left successful careers on  Wall Street 
because they couldn’t find a happy balance between work and
family,” she wrote.  In 1989, she formed Alterna-track Inc., an executive
placement firm for women in finance seeking part-time employment
while caring for their families. Her partner was Suzanne Rinfret
Moore, a classmate at Wheaton who had risen to vice president at
J.P. Morgan Securities Co. before leaving to raise a family.  Kelly Girl  The firm was “a kind of sophisticated Kelly Girl service
for Harvard MBAs, takeover lawyers and corporate accountants,”
according to a 1990 Associated Press story.  Alterna-track’s clients included Goldman Sachs, which,
following an embarrassing drama involving an extramarital
affair, hired the firm “to devise and implement a system of
part-time and flex-time positions for the firm’s women who also
wanted to start families,” according to William D. Cohan’s
“Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World”
(2011).  After selling her stake in Alterna-track, Cook in 1995 went
to work for Steinhardt’s hedge fund, which “needed someone to
handle  investor relations  after a year of terrible performance
in 1994,” she wrote. Steinhardt closed the fund after a
comeback in 1995, and Cook ran the transition. She became chief
investment officer for Steinhardt Management, an investment
partnership, and managing general partner of Nepeta Partners LP,
an affiliated fund-of-funds. She retired in 2008.  ‘27 Holes’  She served on the boards of the International Rescue
Committee, the LiveStrong Foundation, Wheaton College and the
Initiative to Educate Afghan Women. She also had, she wrote,
“obsessive/compulsive athletic pursuits, some days playing 27
holes of golf.”  Cook’s husband of 33 years is co-founder and co-managing
director of Pouschine Cook Capital Management LLC in New York.
He survives her, as do their two sons,Everett III and Conor,
and her brother Anthony.  A memorial service was scheduled for 11 a.m. today at St.
James Church at 865 Madison Ave. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  