-- Kenny’s Irish Government to Survive After Surprise Vote Defeat
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-10-07T13:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/kenny-s-irish-government-to-survive-after-surprise-vote-defeat.html
Ireland’s government has the numbers
to survive another setback, after voters unexpectedly rejected
Prime Minister  Enda Kenny ’s plan to abolish the upper house of
parliament.  Voters on Oct. 4 rejected the government’s plan to
eliminate the upper house, known as the Seanad, even after
opinion polls signaled that Kenny’s proposal would be carried.  Analysts and economists said the defeat probably won’t
destabilize Kenny’s coalition government as it attempts to exit
the bailout program the country entered three years ago. The
government will next week push through its third austerity
budget after the coalition swept to power in 2011, winning 113
of 166 parliament seats.  “While the result was embarrassing for the government, I
don’t see any major political fallout from the referendum as
attention quickly shifts to the  budget,” said Ryan McGrath, a
Dublin-based analyst with Cantor Fitzgerald LP, in a note today.  The Seanad has 60 members, none of whom are directly
elected by the country’s voters. The prime minister nominates
11, a group of university graduates elect 6 and politicians vote
for the remaining 43. The chamber has little power compared with
the Dail, the directly-elected lower house.  Labour Pain  Fine Gael was joined in its bid to abolish the Seanad by
the  Labour Party , the junior member of the coalition, and  Sinn Fein .  Gerry Adams , president of the latter party, said the
government ran a “ridiculously dismal” campaign.  So far, the Labour Party has been the focus of voter ire
for the continued austerity that marked Kenny’s administration.
Support for party fell to 6 percent last month, the lowest in 26
years, an Irish Times/Ipsos MRBI opinion poll published last
week showed. Backing for Fine Gael rose to 26 percent.  Glas Securities, a Dublin-based fixed-income firm, said the
result may make the government’s job “that bit more
difficult.”  Still, there’s “little threat” to the coalition’s
stability, the firm said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  