-- Kissel Appeals Her Second Conviction for Husband’s Murder
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-10-08T08:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/kissel-appeals-her-second-conviction-for-husband-s-murder.html
Nancy Kissel , serving a life sentence
in Hong Kong for the 2003 murder of her Merrill Lynch & Co.
banker husband, sought to appeal her second unanimous conviction
by a jury for the crime.  The Court of Appeal, after hearing two days of arguments,
will consider its decision to be delivered at a later date,
Justice Wally Yeung said today.  Prosecution lawyer David Perry said earlier that the jury
in Kissel’s 2011 retrial found her guilty “on the totality of
the evidence,” and that there was no substance or arguable
ground for the mother-of-three’s appeal. Kissel’s lawyer said
yesterday that the verdict was unsafe because the prosecution
had improperly directed jurors to ignore unanimous and
unrebutted evidence that she was suffering from depression.  Kissel’s lawyer Edward Fitzgerald also argued that the
trial judge should have told the jury to be careful before
ignoring the evidence about her depressive illness.  Kissel, 49, has been imprisoned in  Hong Kong  since her
first conviction in 2005 for murdering her husband Robert at
their luxury apartment. Hong Kong’s top court found in 2010 that
improper questioning and hearsay evidence had tainted the
original trial. Prosecutors charged her again with murder,
rejecting her offer to plead guilty to the lesser charge of
manslaughter.  ‘Battered Woman’  A jury of seven women and two men in 2011 accepted that
Kissel planned to drug her husband with a milkshake before
bludgeoning his skull with a lead ornament while he was
unconscious on their bed. Kissel’s lawyers had argued that she
was depressed, suffered from battered woman syndrome and was
provoked by her husband before she killed him.  Kissel had earlier decided not to appeal her second
conviction and applied to transfer to the U.S. to serve her life
sentence, the court heard. That move wasn’t pursued after it was
advised that no application for parole could be made there.  The U.S. expatriate’s journey from a $20,000-a-month
apartment with a view of the  South China Sea  to a  prison  cell on
the Chinese border spawned at least two books, U.S. network news
specials and a Lifetime Television movie. Media coverage
intensified after Robert’s millionaire real estate developer
brother Andrew Kissel was stabbed to death in 2006.  The case is Nancy Ann Kissel and HKSAR, CACC66/2012. Hong
Kong Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  