-- HKMA’s Bank Rule Boosts Shareholder Oversight, UOB Kay Hian Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-10-07T08:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/hkma-s-bank-rule-boosts-shareholder-oversight-uob-kay-hian-says.html
The  Hong Kong Monetary Authority ’s
tightening of the city’s banking laws will improve its oversight
of shareholders in domestic lenders, according to UOB Kay Hian
( Hong Kong ) Ltd.  A non-financial services company or a foreign institution
owning more than 50 percent of a bank’s shares will need to set
up a Hong Kong-incorporated holding company to hold the stock,
according to amendments to the banking ordinance  published  on
Oct. 4. The holding company may be asked to meet conditions on
capital adequacy, risk management and the suitability of
directors and senior management, according to the ordinance.  “The amendment is a risk-management measure making sure
that buyers of Hong Kong banks have the relevant experience and
won’t add risks to the city’s banking sector,” Edmond Law, an
analyst at UOB Kay Hian, said by phone today. “This is not to
discourage any potential transactions to proceed further.”  The rule comes into effect at a time of mounting
speculation over takeovers of Hong Kong’s lenders. The city’s
role as an international center for trading of  China ’s currency
is attracting Chinese institutions seeking to expand abroad and
foreign buyers eyeing the mainland market.  Requiring a majority shareholder to set up a local
financial holding company will enable the HKMA to exercise
“consolidated supervision” in accordance with international
standards, the regulator said in an e-mailed reply to questions
from  Bloomberg News  today.  China Merchants Bank Co. (3968)  paid $4.7 billion in 2009 for Wing
Lung Bank Ltd. Owners of Wing Hang Bank Ltd., including members
of Chairman Patrick Fung’s family and related trusts, were in
preliminary talks for a sale that would trigger a mandatory
buyout offer, the bank said in a Sept. 16 statement.  Stock Rally  Chong Hing Bank Ltd. (1111) , the smallest of Hong Kong’s family-run banks, is in talks with “independent third parties”
including Yue Xiu Group, and the timing of any transaction is
uncertain, the lender said in a separate statement the same day.
Yue Xiu is the trading arm of the Guangzhou city government.  Chong Hing’s share price has doubled this year, while Wing
Hang climbed 41 percent. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  has risen
1.4 percent in that time.  UOB Kay Hian is a brokerage unit of Singapore-based United
Overseas Bank Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Russell Ward at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  