-- Flyers Replace Laviolette With Berube as Coach After 0-3 Start
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-10-07T15:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/nhl-s-flyers-fire-coach-laviolette-after-0-3-start-ap-reports.html
The Philadelphia Flyers fired coach
Peter Laviolette and replaced him with Craig Berube following an
0-3 start in which the team was outscored 9-3.  Ian Laperriere and John Paddock were named assistants,
while Kevin McCarthy also was replaced, the National Hockey
League team said today at a news conference.  Paul Holmgren, the Flyers’ general manager, said he had
some concerns about the team’s play under Laviolette last
season, which was shortened because of a labor dispute. After
the team missed the playoffs, he decided to give Laviolette
another chance this season before deciding to make the change
last night on the plane ride home following a loss at the
Carolina Hurricanes, he said.  “Right from Day 1 of training camp I was concerned about
how our team looked,” Holmgren said. “It was unacceptable, we
don’t look like a team at all.”  The firing wasn’t the quickest coaching change to start an
NHL season. Bill Gadsby left the Detroit Red Wings two games
into the 1969-70 campaign, and Fred Glover left the California
Golden Seals after three games of the 1971-72 season, according
to ESPN, which cited Elias Sports Bureau.  The Flyers, 23-22-3 last season, were beaten 2-1 at
Carolina. They lost 3-1 to the Toronto Maple Leafs to open the
season and 4-1 at the Montreal Canadiens.  Laviolette, 48, replaced John Stevens as the Flyers’ coach
25 games into the 2009-10 season and led the team to the Stanley
Cup Final, where they lost to the Chicago Blackhawks.
Philadelphia lost in the conference semifinals in each of the
next two seasons.  Tough Guy  Berube, 47, was an NHL forward from 1986 to 2003, playing
his first five seasons in Philadelphia and returning for
1998-2000. Known as an enforcer, he had 3,149 penalty minutes in
his career, with 61 goals and had 159 assists.  He’s been a Flyers’ assistant coach for seven seasons and
has been with the organization for 17, having coached the
Philadelphia Phantoms, the Flyers’ American Hockey League
affiliate.  “I’ve always been a Flyer in my mind,” Berube said.  Holmgren called Berube “one of the smartest hockey guys
I’ve ever been around,” and team Chairman Ed Snider defended
the team’s decision to hire from within even though the club
last won the Stanley Cup in 1975.  “We don’t need a fresh perspective,” Snider said. “We
have a pretty good culture and we know who we’re dealing with.”  With Berube making his debut tomorrow at home against the
Florida Panthers, the team still has confidence in its players,
Holmgren said.  “I’m not going to let the players off the hook,” he said.
“I still believe in our players. We have good players, we’re
just not playing very well. We need to play better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  