-- Arizona’s Brewer Restores Welfare Cut by U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-10-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/no-welfare-in-arizona-as-state-first-to-halt-in-shut-down.html
Arizona  Governor Jan Brewer ordered
welfare officials to use state funds to restore assistance to
thousands of families who lost the aid because of the partial
shutdown of the U.S. government last week.  Arizona’s Economic Security Department stopped providing
 cash  under the federally funded  Temporary Assistance for Needy
Families  program on Oct. 3, Tasya Peterson, a spokeswoman, said
by e-mail. Arizona was the first state to halt payments, which
affected about 3,200 families.  Brewer, a 69-year-old Republican who earlier this year
tangled with her party over her decision to expand Arizona’s
Medicaid program for the poor, yesterday ordered that $650,000
from the economic agency’s budget be redirected to keep the aid
flowing through Oct. 31.  “The failure of leadership in  Washington  is placing a
heavy burden on our state, our core services and our citizens
most in need,” Brewer said in a statement. “It’s well past
time that President Obama begins to negotiate with both parties
in Congress in order to resolve the budget impasse.”  Democratic state lawmakers and advocates for the poor had
called for Brewer to act after the funds ran out following the
Oct. 1 start of the federal fiscal year. The Republican-led U.S.
House of Representatives and the Democratic-run Senate haven’t
been able to agree on spending bills.  27,500 Children  About 16,500 families with more than 27,500 children
received benefits under the program as of August, according to  a
report  on the agency’s website. Payments averaged $202 a month.
About 13,300 participants, or 80 percent, had received benefits
Oct. 1 and Oct. 2, before federal funds dried up, Brewer said.  The U.S. Health and Human Services Department’s Family
Assistance Office told states in a  Sept. 30 letter  if they cover
the payments with state money, they will be reimbursed once
Congress passes legislation to extend funding.  Most states use a combination of federal and state funds
for their cash assistance programs, said LaDonna Pavetti of the
 Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , based in Washington.  Arizona was one of 11 states that used only federal money
for its aid program last year, Pavetti said. Others, including
 New Mexico ,  South Carolina  and  Rhode Island , had funds remaining
in the program to cover a few more weeks of benefits, she said.  Benefits Threatened  As the shutdown continues, those states will have to assess
their ability to make payments and more families around the
country may see benefits stop, she said.  “Our TANF families are the poorest of the poor,” said
Timothy Schmaltz, coordinator of the  Protecting Arizona’s Family
Coalition , which advocates on behalf of low-income people and
sent a letter to Brewer asking her to take action. “If you
don’t have money for utilities or rent or transportation to
work, it’s tough,” he said.  Brewer warned that other programs affecting tens of
thousands of Arizonans are in jeopardy if the federal deadlock
doesn’t end by November, including childcare subsidies and  food
stamps , under the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  