-- Nokia Tells U.K. Court HTC Is Copying Handset Texting Technology
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-10-07T15:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/nokia-tells-u-k-court-htc-is-copying-handset-texting-technology.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finish company selling
its handset business to Microsoft Corp, told a London court that
Taiwanese phonemaker HTC Corp. was copying its technology
designed to help transmit voice and text messages.  Nokia is suing HTC for infringement of the “024 patent,”
which covers the technology, lawyers for the Espoo, Finland-based company said in documents filed at a London court for the
trial beginning today. HTC is seeking to revoke the patent,
Nokia said.  Nokia has filed 50 infringement claims against HTC in the
U.S., U.K.,  Germany  and  Italy  since May 2012, Mark Durrant, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mail. It won a U.S. ruling Sept.
23 after a judge found HTC had violated two patents for a way to
remove errors in radio signals and another for a process to deal
with different radio frequencies.  The patent claim in today’s case relates to a group of four
HTC handsets, including the Wildfire S and One SV, which contain
certain chips manufactured by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) ,
Nokia’s lawyers said in court filings.  Nokia was the world’s biggest maker of mobile phones before
its 14-year streak came to an end in 2011 when Samsung
Electronics Co. overtook it. Nokia has sought to use patent
licensing to recoup some of the money it spent on phone
innovations. Those patents will stay with Nokia after it sells
its handset business and licenses its technology to Microsoft
for $7.2 billion.  Joe Dawes, an external spokesman at London-based Nelson
Bostock Group Ltd. representing HTC, declined to immediately
comment on the trial.  HTC had a 2.8 percent share of the global smartphone market
in the second quarter of 2013, compared to Nokia’s 3.1 percent,
according to Bloomberg Industries data.  The case is  HTC Corp. (2498)  v Nokia Corp. in the U.K. High Court
of Justice, Chancery Division, case no HC12F02047.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  