-- North America Lead Market Seen by Doe Run in Slight Deficit
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2013-10-07T13:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/north-america-lead-market-seen-by-doe-run-in-slight-deficit-1-.html
The North American lead market will
have a “slight deficit” next year after a “small surplus”
this year, according to Jose Hansen, vice president of sales and
marketing at Doe Run Co., owner of six mines in  Missouri .  Doe Run’s Herculaneum smelter in Missouri will close Dec.
31, pushing the market into shortage next year, Hansen said in
an interview in  London  today. Premiums for lead in the U.S.
doubled this year in anticipation of the closing, and are now
about 10 cents to 13 cents a pound, he said. He declined to
comment on premiums for next year. Supplies from  Canada  and
 Mexico  will help to fill the gap in the U.S., he said.  Stockpiles of lead, 80 percent of which goes into
batteries, are contracting the most of any industrial metal
traded on the LME just as global car sales are expanding.
Production will lag behind demand by 23,000 metric tons next
year, the first shortage since 2009, the International Lead &
Zinc Study Group, which represents consumers and producers and
is based in Lisbon, said in a statement today.  “This year we’re going to see demand grow 5 to 6 percent
globally and we are seeing new applications in automobile
applications,” Hansen said. “I’m very positive on lead
demand.” Lead demand is also getting a boost from industrial
batteries needed to support faster Internet services, he said.  Doe Run, based in  St. Louis , has six mines, and two
smelters, all in Missouri. Its refined lead production will drop
to about 145,000 tons next year from 260,000 tons this year, he
said. Doe Run is exploring ways to boost production outside of
Missouri and has a demonstration plant in Missouri that may be
able to produce primary lead, silver, zinc and copper, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  