-- North Africa Is World’s Next Big Shale Prospect, Repsol Says
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-10-07T09:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/north-africa-is-world-s-next-big-shale-prospect-repsol-says.html
North Africa may be “the next big
opportunity” after  North America  for oil and gas production
from shale, if drilling costs can be reduced, said  Repsol (REP)  SA
Geological Studies Director Eduardo Negri.  “Repsol has conducted a regional study covering the whole
Saharan Platform in order to identify prospective areas for
shale gas and oil from a geological point of view,” he said in
an e-mailed statement ahead of an industry conference planned in
 Tunisia  for Oct. 22. “One of the most important things required
to consolidate a successful unconventional project is to have
clear and stable contractual and fiscal terms specially designed
for unconventionals.”  Algeria’s oil and gas output should double in seven to 10
years as it brings on stream fields in under-explored regions
and develops reserves of shale and tight gas, Energy Minister
Youcef Yousfi said Oct. 1. Africa’s largest gas producer,
 Algeria  this year decided to ease fiscal terms to attract
investments in remote and unconventional deposits. Repsol, based
in  Madrid , is developing three areas in the country, according
to the company’s website.  In neighboring  Libya , the state-run National Oil Corp. said
on Sept. 11 it may invite specialized companies to assess the
country’s shale oil and gas reserves and make provisions for
their extraction in a petroleum law being drafted. Repsol
operates at two blocks in Libya and is exploring for oil and gas
in six additional areas, it said on its website.  “The current drilling and completion costs are still high
in North Africa,” Negri said. “This is something that can be
worked on if service companies take special effort in
preliminary evaluation steps in order to show how they can
reduce costs, thinking about massive operations in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  