-- Norway’s New Rulers Pledge $17 Billion Fund and Tax Cuts
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-10-08T07:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/norway-s-incoming-government-pledges-tax-cuts-and-asset-sales.html
Norway’s new government vowed to cut
income taxes, sell state assets and establish a 100 billion-krone ($17 billion) fund to aid the construction of roads and
other infrastructure in western  Europe ’s largest oil producer.  Erna Solberg, leader of the  Conservative Party  and incoming
prime minister after winning the Sept. 9 election, and Progress
Party leader Siv Jensen yesterday presented a 75-page platform
revealing how the coalition plans to rule Scandinavia’s richest
economy over the next four years.  “Infrastructure investments are as important as the fiscal
rule and it’s important for the government to invest for the
future and help our children to inherit a society with equal
welfare,” Solberg said yesterday. “We need to strengthen our
competitiveness and secure Norwegian jobs.”  The two-party coalition last week got the go ahead to form
a minority government after reaching an accord with its two
smaller opposition partners. The parties also promised to stick
to a rule that caps oil money spending at 4 percent of the $780
billion sovereign wealth fund and to refrain from taking initial
steps to open for oil exploration off the Lofoten islands over
the next four years.  The yield on  Norway ’s government note maturing in 2015
increase one basis point to 1.72 percent as of 9:39 a.m. in
Oslo. The krone strengthened 0.3 percent to 8.0816 per euro.  The Fears  “The combination of spending increases and tax cuts
naturally raise fears of fiscal expansion, overheating, and
rising interest rates,” said Knut Anton Mork, chief economist
in Oslo at Svenska Handelsbanken AB. “Although the platform is
silent about compensating spending cuts, we believe those fears
are exaggerated.”  The incoming government didn’t provide any specific amounts
on planned tax cuts or asset sales. The infrastructure fund will
be built over five years, using money from the oil fund,
according to the Progress Party’s Jensen.  “The fiscal rule is quite flexible,” Jensen said in an
interview yesterday. “The overall concern for the new
government is to have a fiscal policy that takes into
consideration all different aspects of the overall economy.”  Oil Fund  The government said it will also evaluate developing the
fund’s investment strategy and promote more investments in the
developing world and renewable energy, according to the
platform. The coalition will also seek to increase use of
Norway’s natural gas domestically, it said.  The Conservatives were the biggest opposition winner in the
Sept. 9 election, after pledging to cut income and wealth taxes,
boost investments and ease mortgage lending regulations. The
Progress Party, historically an outsider in Norwegian politics,
is entering government for the first time since being formed as
an anti-tax movement in 1973. They will be backed by the smaller
 Christian Democrats  and Liberal parties in the parliament.  The Progress Party, which supports curbs on immigration,
had campaigned on promises to spend more of Norway’s oil wealth.  The incoming government is expected to take power on Oct.
18 and will need to work within a framework set by the Labor-led
government in a budget proposal on Oct. 14. Outgoing Prime
Minister Jens Stoltenberg has said the government will spend
about 50 billion kroner less than the 4 percent rule allows for.  “The idea behind the rule has always been to invest more
in infrastructure, tax reduction and innovation,” Jensen said.
“Even within the 4 percent rule it’s a huge amount of
flexibility -- it depends on how you invest the money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo  at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  