-- Tobacco Companies Rejected by High Court in Florida Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-10-07T13:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/tobacco-companies-rejected-by-high-court-in-florida-case.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  rejected the
tobacco industry’s appeal of a Florida ruling that may help
thousands of smokers sue cigarette makers over smoking-related
illnesses.  The nation’s highest court today turned away arguments by
 Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris USA,  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) ’s
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco and  Vector Group Ltd. (VGR) ’s Liggett unit. They
challenged a $2.5 million award to the family of Charlotte
Douglas, who died in 2008 of lung cancer at age 62.  The Supreme Court has repeatedly declined to intervene in
tobacco litigation in Florida, where more than 4,500 smoker
suits are pending. So far, Florida juries have returned verdicts
totaling more than $500 million against the industry, the
companies said in their appeal.  Cigarette makers are seeking to limit the effect of a 2006
Florida Supreme Court decision, which said a jury’s factual
findings against the industry in a class-action case could serve
as the starting point for individual suits. The Florida  high
court  reaffirmed that ruling in the Douglas case.  At the U.S. Supreme Court, the tobacco companies said they
were being deprived of their constitutional right to due process
of law.  “It is impossible to conclude with any certainty in any of
these cases that any jury in any proceeding has ever decided all
the elements of the plaintiff’s claims in his or her favor,”
the companies contended in their appeal.  Douglas’s widower, James, urged the Supreme Court to reject
the appeal. The industry “has already been given every
opportunity to litigate its class-wide claims and defenses” and
“enjoys every opportunity to litigate the individual claims and
defenses before a judgment is finally rendered,” Douglas
argued.  Philip Morris , the biggest U.S. cigarette maker, is based
in Richmond, Virginia. No. 2 Reynolds is based in Winston-Salem,
North Carolina.  The case is Philip Morris v. Douglas, 13-191.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  