-- Obama Says No Negotiations Until Debt Ceiling, Funding Settled
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-10-07T16:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/obama-says-no-negotiations-until-debt-ceiling-funding-settled.html
President  Barack Obama  challenged
congressional Republicans to raise the U.S. debt limit by next
week and said he’s willing to negotiate on fiscal terms once
that is done and government funding is restored.  The president repeated that he won’t bargain while federal
operations are partially shut down because of the budget standoff
and won’t agree to any conditions placed on increasing the debt
ceiling. He said Democrats already have compromised on
spending levels.  “We’re not going to negotiate under the threat of economic
catastrophe,” Obama said at the Washington headquarters of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, where he met with some of
the federal workers who are still on duty.  House Speaker John Boehner said yesterday the Republican-controlled chamber won’t pass an increase to the federal debt
limit without concessions from Obama. The president has
repeatedly rejected any negotiations on either the debt ceiling
or funding government operations.  There were few signs of the stalemate breaking a week into a
government shutdown and 10 days from when Treasury Secretary
Jacob J. Lew says the U.S. will exhaust measures to avoid
breaching the debt ceiling.  The administration has warned that breeching the debt
ceiling would have catastrophic consequences for the economy
that would ripple across the globe.  Stocks Decline  As the deadlock over funding the government and raising the
debt limit drags on, stocks extended losses from last week with
the MSCI All-Country World  Index (SPA)  sliding 0.4 percent to 382.12
at 11:59 p.m. in New York and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
declining 0.4 percent.  One of Obama’s top economic advisers, Gene Sperling,
earlier today indicated the White House might accept a short-term increase in the nation’s $16.7 trillion debt limit to allow
talks to continue without a default.  While Obama will negotiate on budget details or to
strengthen the Affordable Care Act, he “is not going to
sanction negotiations with any faction that are using the threat
of default as a way of extracting policy in our democracy,”
Sperling, director of the president’s National Economic Council,
said today at a breakfast sponsored by Politico.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  