-- Obama Climate Change Adviser Zichal to Leave Administration
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-10-07T20:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/obama-climate-change-adviser-zichal-to-leave-administration.html
Heather Zichal , the top White House
adviser on energy and climate change, is leaving the
administration of President  Barack Obama  after five years.  “Heather will be missed here at the White House, but our
work on this important issue will go on,” White House Chief of
Staff  Denis McDonough  said in a statement today.  Zichal helped develop the program Obama unveiled in June to
tackle climate change, and led a federal task force about the
boom in hydraulic fracturing and shale-gas production.  No replacement has been named, and the White House didn’t
offer details on Zichal’s next job.  Zichal, 37, joined the administration after advising Obama
on agriculture, energy and environmental issues during the 2008
campaign. She told an interviewer in 2012 that as a child she
would dream up “new ways to recycle.” She recalled asking her
parents to collect waste paper from the clinic where her dad
worked as a doctor and her mother as a nurse to make bedding for
the animals on her grandfather’s farm.  As an aide to former Massachusetts Senator John Kerry, a
Democrat, and two New Jersey Democratic congressmen, she worked
on legislation to protect natural resources such as the Arctic
National Wildlife Refuge. In the White House, she has fended off
complaints from environmental groups during Obama’s first term
that the administration didn’t fight hard enough for climate
legislation and about the president’s decision to kill the
Environmental Protection Agency’s plan to lower harmful ozone
levels. This year’s climate plan, which centers on reducing
carbon emissions from power plants, won support from
environmental groups.  “Throughout her career, and especially during her time
with President Obama, Ms. Zichal has worked tirelessly to cut
carbon pollution and promote a clean energy future,” Gene Karpinski, president of the League of Conservation Voters, said
in a statement. “America is better off today because of her
commitment to a cleaner, safer world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  