-- Obamacare Seen Straining Clinics With Medicaid Expansion
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-10-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/obamacare-seen-straining-clinics-with-medicaid-expansion.html
They start showing up at the  St.
John’s Well Child and Family Center  in  Los Angeles  at 5 a.m. By
the time the doors open at 8 a.m., as many as 60 patients are
queued up in a line that stretches down the street.  In South L.A., where St. John’s is one of the few
organizations that makes doctors available to the poor, the
lines may soon get much longer. More than 5 million additional
Americans are expected to enroll over the next two years in
Medicaid, the taxpayer-funded insurance for the poor that’s
expanding Jan. 1 under  the Affordable Care Act . Yet 43 percent
of doctors in  California  and a third nationwide won’t take new
Medicaid patients. Low pay is one of the reasons.  A shortage of Medicaid doctors will leave many newly
insured seeking care in a two-tiered system in which they will
have access to less experienced medical staff, longer travel
times to find a doctor who accepts Medicaid, and be subject to
appointment waiting times sometimes weeks longer than those with
private coverage. The advent of the law, rather than help, could
make a bad situation even worse as overwhelmed clinics, like St.
John’s, struggle to meet greater demand, according to doctors
and policy analysts.  “It has been very difficult for Medicaid beneficiaries to
get primary care and find physicians who will accept Medicaid,”
said Catherine Sreckovich, a managing director at  Navigant
Consulting Inc. (NCI) , who has worked with state Medicaid agencies for
more than 25 years. “That challenge will continue to grow as
more people have insurance and are competing for the same
limited set of physicians.”  State Option  Much of the attention on Obamacare has centered on the
law’s insurance exchanges, which opened Oct. 1 and allow people
to shop online for health plans. Millions have flooded the
marketplaces since then, causing them to close down or work
slowly. This weekend, the federal government partially closed
its healthcare.gov site during the early morning hours to add
capacity and fix bottlenecks, after announcing it had recorded
8.6 million visitors over the first three days.  Less noticed has been the law’s provision to provide states
funding to expand their Medicaid programs to individuals making
as much as 133 percent of the federal poverty level, far more
generous than eligibility requirements in most states prior to
the law. So far, 25 states have said they plan to expand
Medicaid, according to  the Kaiser Family Foundation .  While the law greatly improves access to coverage for the
poor, it’s unclear how much that will translate to improved
care. Medicaid pays an average of 34 percent less for all
services than Medicare, the U.S. program for the elderly and
disabled, according to data from the  Menlo Park , California-based foundation.  Per-Visit Costs  In some states, the payments are as low as $29 for a 30-minute visit with a patient, $277 for delivering a baby and $357
for a cataract surgery. In California, Medicaid pays $25 for a
pelvic exam and a pap smear compared with as much as $200 from
private insurance.  In  New Jersey , where Medicaid payments are about half of
what Medicare pays, 60 percent of doctors said they won’t take
new Medicaid patients, according to  study in the journal Health
Affairs . Many Medicaid enrollees in the state go to the ER now
because they have trouble getting to a doctor’s appointment,
said Katherine Grant-Davis, chief executive of the New Jersey
Primary Care Association, which represents federally funded
health centers that focus on the poor.  “Doctors can make more money treating rich people and they
don’t really want to deal with the poor because they are tough
to follow and they have more complex health problems,” said
 Arthur Caplan , director of the division of medical ethics at  New
York University  in  Manhattan  who has studied the disparities in
Medicaid coverage. “The more you make medicine into a business,
the more you put it in the hands of people with an MBA, the poor
become less interesting.”  Longer Wait  In a 2011 study, two-thirds of callers trying to make an
appointment with a specialist for a child on Medicaid were
denied care compared with 11 percent of kids with private
insurance. The Medicaid children who were able to get an
appointment had to wait an average of 22 days longer than the
privately insured ones, according to the study published in the
New England Journal of Medicine.  Medicaid patients can find it difficult to see a fully
certified doctor even at nonprofit hospitals. At  New York  City’s
major teaching hospitals, including New York Presbyterian and
 Mount Sinai , those with Medicaid seeking an appointment with a
specialist are more likely to be seen by a doctor still in
training because many of the board-certified staff doctors won’t
take Medicaid, said  Ronda Kotelchuck , chief executive officer of
the Primary Care Development Corp., a New York-based nonprofit
group focused on expanding primary care to under-served areas.  Less Coordinated  While the medical residents and fellows are overseen by a
fully-trained attending physician, the care is less coordinated
than at a doctor’s private practice. Some patients see a
different resident each visit and there is no on-call service
for after-hours problems, Kotelchuck said.  Some hospitals limit the number of Medicaid plans they
accept or the services provided to those with Medicaid.  Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in New York takes just three of
the more than a dozen Medicaid plans in the state. The only
Medicaid patients that the  Mayo Clinic ’s facilities in  Arizona 
will accept are those for transplants and adult congenital heart
patients, as well as children needing a bone marrow or liver
transplant.  Doctors say they often can’t afford to take too many
Medicaid patients because of the low reimbursements, especially
if they are in private practice rather than being paid a salary
by a hospital, said Dale Blasier, chairman of the  American
Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons ’ coding, coverage and
reimbursement committee. About 40 percent of orthopedic surgeons
nationwide aren’t taking new Medicaid patients, according to the
study in Health Affairs.  More Costs  “As I talk to people in private practice, it often costs
more to see a Medicaid patient for a visit than what the
reimbursement pays,” said Blasier, an orthopedist at Arkansas
Children’s Hospital in  Little Rock . “It is the bottom of the
barrel. No one pays worse than Medicaid.”  There can also be added costs because of additional
paperwork, delays in getting paid, and services the patient
needs that aren’t covered, Blasier said.  Obama’s health law tries to entice some doctors to treat
Medicaid patients by raising the payments to family physicians,
internists and pediatricians for primary care services to the
same level as Medicare until 2014. Many doctors are skeptical
those payments will remain at the higher levels for more than
two years, making them hesitant to start taking new Medicaid
patients, said Sreckovich of Chicago-based Navigant.  Greater Share  That leaves federally subsidized community health centers,
like  St. John’s  in Los Angeles, to take the brunt of the new
patients. More than 1 million uninsured people in California are
expected to join Medicaid starting next year. While those people
are now getting some care at emergency rooms and free clinics,
they are expected to start seeking even more services once they
have insurance, said Jim Mangia, St. John’s chief executive
officer.  At St. John’s, Mangia estimates a 40 percent increase in
the number of patient visits to his centers next year. That is
on top of the more than 30 percent jump they’ve seen this year
after California started expanding insurance to the poor and his
centers increased capacity, he said.  St. John’s has received federal funding to help open two
new specialty care centers, built four new school-based clinics,
and expanded its headquarters and facilities in Compton,
California. It has hired a consultant to suggest ways to improve
work flow so more patients can be seen in less time, getting
wait times down to less than 40 minutes compared with several
hours.  Still, the center isn’t sure it will be able to recruit
enough doctors, nurses and physician assistants to meet the
demand. The center’s website has 16  job openings  for doctors,
nurses, and administrative positions.  Physician Churning  “The worry I have is the churning of physicians and the
difficulty of finding physicians and how to deal with the
burnout because it is such a fast-pace, high-acuity
environment,” Mangia said. “You need a whole department of
people where all they do is constantly recruit but that is a
huge expense.”  Health centers in New Jersey are also bracing for an
onslaught of new patients and struggling to find enough doctors.
There, about 300,000 uninsured adults are expected to sign up
for Medicaid by 2016 under the expansion, many of them single
males who have gone years without insurance and have chronic
conditions that will need a lot of care, said Grant-Davis of the
primary care association.  “We don’t expect it to be a healthy population that will
be showing up,” she said. “We expected them to have some
complicated needs.”  ‘Chronic Asthma’  The clinics she represents have been hiring doctors, nurses
and administrative workers and trying to expand hours to meet
the demand. They currently have openings for primary care
doctors, bilingual staff, nurses and medical assistants. Still,
there is only so much they can do when patients have a complex
condition that requires more advanced care from a specialist.  “Most of our patients have chronic asthma, diabetes,
hypertension and you can manage that, but sooner or later you
may need to bring in specialists,” she said. “That gets very
challenging to find.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  