-- Occupy’s Union Bank Embraces Billionaires in Profit Hunt
-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2013-10-07T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/occupy-s-union-bank-embraces-billionaires-in-profit-hunt.html
The alarm blaring in the New York
headquarters of Amalgamated Bank, where the  Democratic National
Committee  and Occupy  Wall Street  are clients, didn’t bother the
two pinstriped executives sitting still with legs crossed.  “You smell the smoke,” Chief Executive Officer Ed Grebow
told Chief Financial Officer Bill Houlihan last month, “then
we’ll do something.”  Their firm has seen worse. The nation’s largest union-owned
bank had almost been ruined by soured deals from  Long Island
City  to  Las Vegas  when it agreed in 2011 to sell a 40 percent
stake to billionaires Wilbur L. Ross and  Ron Burkle .  After a rescue by investors  each  rich enough to foot the
Occupational Safety & Health Administration’s $535 million
budget, the lender founded 90 years ago by garment workers is
putting profit first. The $100 million from WL Ross & Co. and
Burkle’s Los Angeles-based Yucaipa Cos. helped the bank earn
$3.9 million in 2012, trim bad loans and end a two-year-old
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  consent order  in June.  “First and foremost we’re a bank,” said Stephen Toy, New
York-based WL Ross’s representative on the  board . “Secondly,
we’re a bank that serves a very specific market.”  Under new executives  from   JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Amalgamated is expanding
businesses including leveraged lending for private-equity
buyouts. Its  website , topped by an “America’s Labor Bank”
slogan, advertises a May deal with TRAKAmerica, a Naples,
Florida-based company specializing in  debt-recovery  services.  ‘Ideological Purity’  “We are clearly here to make money,” said Grebow, 64, who
joined in 2011 from private-equity firm J.C. Flowers & Co. and
said he’s comfortable enough with the bank’s recovery to step
down early next year. “I was brought in to do the turnaround.”  The company he’ll leave behind is controlled by Workers
United, a garment-industry affiliate of the 2.1 million-member
 Service Employees International Union , one of the largest U.S.
labor groups. Still, Amalgamated may look more like a bank with
union ties than a union offshoot that does banking.  “If the test for us is ideological purity, it’ll be
difficult for us to achieve,” said Amalgamated’s Washington
director, Keith Mestrich, a former CFO for the SEIU. “We’re not
going to be perfect.”  The bank, with $3.6 billion of assets, has about two dozen
retail branches, almost all in  New York , and divisions that
finance real estate, lend to private-equity firms and manage and
administer pension plans for unions, according to its website.  Empty Desert  Real estate has hurt the bank. It bought about $800 million
of loans from subprime lender Countrywide Financial Corp. before
the 2008 crisis, according to Amalgamated Treasurer Ken Schmidt.
Countrywide collapsed under the weight of losses and was sold to
 Bank of America Corp.   “Terrible loans, really bad loans,” Grebow said. “The
bank expanded into markets it didn’t know, and Las Vegas is the
best example.”  Amalgamated was an investor in a Plaza Hotel-themed
multibillion-dollar luxury gambling complex there announced in
2007. Six years later, the site remains  empty desert . The bank
sold off its loan in August, according to Samantha Berg, a
company spokeswoman.  It had even worse timing as lender to the 556-room
InterContinental Chicago O’Hare hotel, which opened days before
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy. Also that year
Amalgamated agreed to loan as much as $21 million to a company
in New York’s Long Island City whose owner was sentenced in May
to seven years in prison for defrauding the bank.  ‘Significant Sanctions’  The government cracked down on Amalgamated’s management.
Under the FDIC’s 2011  consent order , the bank was ordered to cut
bad loans from its books, limit its exposure to them, renovate
risk systems and boost capital.  “Regulators were threatening significant sanctions and
possibly closing it,” said Grebow, the CEO. “We desperately
needed capital.”  Because the bank’s union owner didn’t have millions of
dollars to pump in, getting the capital wasn’t easy.  “Frankly, there weren’t a lot of other people standing in
line around the bank willing to put that kind of money into
it,” said Noel Beasley, Amalgamated’s chairman and president of
the 80,000-member Workers United. “I didn’t have many friends
who had $50 million.”  They found billionaires who have been praised by unions,
with the  United Steelworkers  commending Ross and the United Food
& Commercial Workers giving Burkle’s supermarkets  good marks .
They also found businessmen who might make some workers uneasy.  ‘Dirty Word’  Ross, 75, was chairman of International Coal Group Inc. in
2006 when an explosion killed 12 men at its mine in Sago,  West
Virginia , after hundreds of safety violations. The company was
sold for $3.4 billion in 2011, a year before Ross publicly
supported Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , irking
Amalgamated clients, according to Grebow.  “One of the unfortunate things in today’s society is
capitalism has become to many people a dirty word,” Ross said.
“The only way it will ultimately fulfill the original dream and
the original mission is to be a profitable and healthy bank.”  Burkle, 60, is also an investor in Soho House Group, which
runs private clubs, and Morgans Hotel Group Co. The longtime
Democrat told Bloomberg Businessweek in 2010 that his investing
is guided by something beyond politics.  “Since I was 13, I’ve been buying things because they are
ridiculously cheap,” he said. “We always try to buy companies
that are doing OK but that have some issues.”  The billionaires’ firms  invested  about $50 million each.
Burkle wouldn’t comment for this story, said Frank Quintero, a
Yucaipa spokesman. The firm is represented on the board by W. Gerald McConnell.  Union Splits  They were the bank’s best option, according to Mestrich.  “These are billionaires who have common cause with a bank
like Amalgamated -- at least from time to time,” the Washington
director said. “Nobody in this world is pure.”  The bank’s majority owner splitting in 2005 from the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation, wasn’t its messiest
divorce. A 2004 merger between the garment workers who
controlled Amalgamated and a hotel union disintegrated amid
allegations of misappropriations and a fight over the lender. It
ended  in 2010  with Amalgamated returning to the garment group,
now known as Workers United, and the firm’s Art Deco Manhattan
headquarters going to the hotel workers.  The bank’s labor tie is “also our weakness,” said Grebow,
who cited the union movement’s decline. “It was clear to me we
couldn’t just rely on labor. We needed to branch out.”  Crinkled Bills  Some of that new territory fits snugly into what the bank’s
 website  calls its progressive tradition. Amalgamated became the
DNC’s only lender last year, handled banking for President
 Barack Obama ’s second inauguration, announced a loan program for
 skilled immigrants  in August and started  municipal lending  when
union connections brought it to Scranton,  Pennsylvania . The loan
to the city, which faced a budget gap, helped it make payroll.  Occupy Wall Street , the global movement against inequality,
became a client in 2011.  “OWS would routinely collect thousands of dollars in
crinkled small-bill donations,” former Occupy finance committee
member Haywood Carey said. “We have nothing but great things to
say about the staff, management and board.”  The bank also lends to private-equity clients, which unions
including the SEIU have criticized for cutting benefits and jobs
and for benefiting from tax loopholes.  Hot Pants  Amalgamated’s deal with TRAKAmerica gave a  multimillion-dollar   credit line  to a firm that  said  it has “been able to
recover millions of dollars previously believed to be
unrecoverable.” Its clients are direct creditors and debt
buyers, according to TRAKAmerica’s  website , which lists
installment loans and credit cards as areas of expertise.  H.I.G. Capital LLC, a Miami-based private-equity firm whose
holdings have included a jailhouse phone service and Hooters,
the restaurant chain with waitresses in hot pants, announced in
2010 that it acquired TRAKAmerica along with another investor.  Amalgamated CFO Houlihan, who previously worked for Goldman
Sachs and subprime credit-card lender Metris Cos., said
TRAKAmerica is “a legitimate business.” Debt collectors work
with borrowers “to try to get them to do the right thing.”  The bank also is relying on foreclosures as a tool to clean
up soured home loans on its own books.  “We are very careful to make sure we treat people
fairly,” Grebow said. “On the other hand, our job is to
protect the assets of the bank, and that’s what we do.”  ‘Dark Days’  Amalgamated posted a $3 million loss in the first quarter,
then reported a $1.5 million gain in the next period as
provisions for loan losses fell, company  filings  show. It was
profitable in the third quarter, according to Grebow.  “We feel like the dark days are pretty far behind,” said
Toy, the board member. “I don’t know that I would call it a
more Wall Street institution -- I would say it’s a much more
sophisticated institution.”  More consistent profits, if Amalgamated can find them, will
create questions for the firm, said  Andy Stern , who criticized
banks including Goldman Sachs as SEIU president until 2010.  “Now they’re going to face the challenge,” he said.
“Where do we draw lines in terms of our profitability versus
our responsibility?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  