-- Lockheed Cuts Furloughs to 2,400 as Shutdown Pressure Eases
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-10-07T18:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/lockheed-reduces-furloughs-to-2-400-as-shutdown-pressure-eases.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  today reduced
furloughs by about 20 percent after the Pentagon said most
civilian employees sent home in the partial U.S. government
shutdown will be put back to work.  The top federal contractor had planned to furlough 3,000
people. About 2,400 of those employees, most of them tied to
nondefense programs, are still unable to work because civilian
government sites are closed or the Bethesda, Maryland-based
company has received an order to stop work from agencies,
Lockheed said in a statement.  The Pentagon said on Oct. 5 that 90 percent or more of
about 350,000 employees it furloughed last week will be coming
back, including inspectors who are needed to review contract
work. While the decision prompted  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  to
cancel plans for as many as 4,000 furloughs, other contractors
continue to cope with pressures from the government’s partial
closing.  “The Department of Defense’s decision will not eliminate
the impact of the government shutdown on the company’s employees
and the business,” Lockheed said in its statement.  Of the Lockheed employees still being furloughed, only 300
work on military programs.  Furloughed Workers  About 82 percent of Lockheed’s $47.2 billion in sales in
2012 came from the U.S. government -- including 61 percent from
the Pentagon, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission
filing. The company does work for a number of federal agencies,
including the Department of  Veterans Affairs , the Energy
Department, the  Department of Health  and Human Services and the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration.  Lockheed’s furloughed workers are spread across 27 states,
with most of them based in the Washington area, Gordon Johndroe,
a spokesman for the contractor, said in an e-mail.  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC)  also furloughed “some employees
whose workload is substantially decreased as a result of the
government shutdown,” Heather Williams, a spokeswoman for the
 Falls Church , Virginia-based contractor, said in an e-mail
today. She didn’t say how many staff were on leave and where
they worked.  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)  hasn’t furloughed staff,
said James Fisher, a spokesman for the McLean, Virginia-based
company. Instead, he said the company has given some staff the
opportunity to take paid time off.  Fisher didn’t say how many people had taken the company up
on its offer.  Options Considered  Booz Allen  is “considering a variety of options, pending
the length of the shutdown and any developments,” Fisher said.  Boeing Co. (BA) , the No. 2 federal contractor, hasn’t ruled out
sending employees home.  It said last week it may begin “limited furloughs” this
week. While the return of most Pentagon civilian employees has
“at least delayed the need for furloughs at some Boeing
facilities,” the shutdown may still lead to furloughs, said
Meghan McCormick, a spokeswoman for the Chicago-based company.  So far, United Technologies, the government’s sixth-largest
contractor, is the only top federal vendor to completely
backtrack on furloughs.  The company previously had planned to put 2,000 workers on
leave beginning today at its Sikorsky Aircraft unit after
military inspectors required to monitor production work were put
on leave. Another 2,000 workers at the Hartford, Connecticut-based company’s  Pratt & Whitney  and UTC Aerospace Systems had
faced furloughs this week.  Act Quickly  “ United Technologies  greatly appreciates the efforts of
those in the administration and Congress who facilitated the
recall of the furloughed civilian employees,” the company said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Robert Hale, undersecretary of defense, said on Oct. 5 that
he had no concrete estimate for how many civilian defense
employees would remain off the job during the shutdown. Some of
those who won’t return include staff in  information technology ,
auditing and public affairs, he said.  “We haven’t solved all the problems,” Hale told reporters
on a conference call. “We still hope Congress will act very
quickly to end this shutdown.”  The Aerospace Industries Association, an Arlington,
Virginia-based trade group, said in a statement last week that
companies had voiced concerns that if the shutdown continued,
they would be forced to furlough tens of thousands of workers.  Intelligence Agencies  A U.S. unit of London-based  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  said last week
it had excused from work about 1,000 employees in its
intelligence and security division.  As many as 10 percent to 15 percent of the 34,500 U.S.-
based employees of BAE Systems Inc., its U.S. unit, may be
affected by the shutdown, the company said last week.  Brian Roehrkasse, a spokesman for the division, didn’t
provide comment on whether any of its workers may be reinstated
or protected from the shutdown after the Pentagon decision.  “Many of those 1,000 workers who were excused by their
government agencies” support intelligence agencies, not the
Defense Department, Roehrkasse said in an e-mail yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  