-- Hogs Advance on Lower Slaughter Estimate; Cattle Decline
-- B y   D a l t o n   B a r k e r
-- 2013-10-07T20:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/hogs-advance-on-lower-slaughter-estimate-cattle-decline.html
Hog futures rose, capping the longest
rally in four weeks, on signs that the U.S. slaughter dropped.
Cattle declined from an eight-month high.  In the week ended Oct. 5, the hog slaughter fell 6.5
percent to 2.2 million head from a year earlier, according to
Urner Barry Beef, a Bayville, New Jersey-based publisher of
agriculture  data  and livestock-market news.  Widening profit margins may be spurring demand from
producers, Dick Quiter, an account executive at McFarland
Commodities LLC in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  Hog futures for December settlement rose 0.3 percent to
close at 87.875 cents a pound at 1 p.m. on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange. The price climbed for the fourth straight
session, the longest rally since Sept. 6.  Trading for hogs and cattle was 29 percent below the 100-day average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cattle futures for December delivery fell 0.1 percent to
$1.323 a pound. On Oct. 4, the most-active contract reached
$1.326, the highest for a most-active contract since Feb. 5.  Feeder-cattle futures for November settlement fell 0.3
percent to $1.65475 a pound.  A partial U.S. government shutdown halted the collection of
cash-livestock prices and reduced transparency in the futures
market.  Last week, the CME Group Inc., the parent of the Chicago
livestock exchange, suspended the publication of measurements of
spot prices for hogs and feeder cattle. The indexes, used to
settle some futures contracts, depend on data distributed by the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Today, the agency postponed its monthly report on domestic
and global supply and demand, originally scheduled for Oct. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalton Barker in Chicago at 
 dbarker40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at   pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  