-- Oil Refineries Drops on Debt Repayment Concern: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-10-07T12:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/oil-refineries-drops-on-debt-repayment-concern-tel-aviv-mover.html
Oil Refineries Ltd. (ORL)  slid to the
lowest in more than three years on concern the Israeli producer
of refined crude oil products won’t meet debt commitments.  The  shares  lost 6.9 percent to 1.23 shekels, the weakest
level since March 2009, as of 2:36 p.m. in Tel Aviv, bringing
the three-day drop to 12 percent. Trading volume was more than
triple the three-month daily average, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The stock was the biggest decliner on a percentage basis
in the benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25) , which fell 0.5 percent.  Bondholders of the loss-making company will request an
injection of funds from majority owner Israel Corp. to meet
imminent debt obligations, Calcalist reported last week. The
holders are worried Oil Refineries will have to abide by its
guarantee for as much as $135 million given to its Carmel
Olefins Ltd.  unit , according to the newspaper. The subsidiary is
able to “fully service its debt with its own resources,” the
refiner said today in an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg.  “There are concerns about a debt settlement and that is
what is pushing the shares down,” Sharon Naveh, head of
institutional and international sales at Migdal Capital Markets
Ltd., said by phone.  Oil Refineries has declined 26 percent in the past 12
months, compared with a gain of about 4 percent in the TA-25.
Standard & Poor’s Maalot in  June  gave the refiner a negative
outlook and a rating of ilBBB+, citing “less than adequate”
liquidity and “very high” leverage levels. The company will
face debt obligations of $295 million in 2014,  according  to S&P.  Consecutive Losses  The refiner has posted losses in the past eight quarters
and hasn’t reported an annual profit since 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Israel Corp., which  has a 37.08
percent stake  in Oil Refineries, has declined 24 percent in the
past 12 months, with the shares slipping 1 percent today.  Israel Petrochemical Enterprises Ltd., the second-biggest
shareholder with a stake of almost 31 percent, tumbled 9.9
percent, the steepest retreat since Aug. 27. The producer of
polyethylene and other raw materials said in July it would delay
payment of principal due in August. Its bonds were put on credit
review at Moody’s Midroog in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  