-- Holiday Spending to Rise as Black Friday Lures Shoppers
-- B y   M i n s i   C h u n g
-- 2013-10-07T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/holiday-spending-to-rise-as-black-friday-lures-shoppers.html
U.S. consumers will spend 11 percent
more this holiday season, starting with a jump in shoppers on
the day after Thanksgiving, while looking for discounts in
stores and online, according to a study by consulting firm
 Accenture Plc (ACN)   During the seasonal crunch, U.S. shoppers are forecast to
spend an average of $646 on gifts, compared with $582 they
planned to spend on average last year, according to a  study 
released today by Dublin-based Accenture. Of those surveyed, 20
percent said they planned to spend more than last year while 62
percent said they will spend the same.  Accenture expects Black Friday to play an important role in
the seasonal shopping, with 55 percent of U.S. consumers
expected to make purchases on that day, a five-year high.  Though people will spend more overall, holiday shoppers
will be “keenly focused on discounts and sales,” Accenture
said. Economic and political uncertainty, with the government
partially shut down, combined with higher payroll taxes, rising
mortgage interest rates and limited gains in employment, have
kept consumers wary of overspending.  Consumer confidence  fell to
a five-month low in September.  Still, Accenture said the projected rise in spending comes
as consumers “treat themselves after a tough year,” and enjoy
increased discretionary income.  Accenture’s study, an online survey of 500 U.S. consumers
conducted last month, is more optimistic than other
researchers’, including the National Retail Federation, which
said earlier this month that holiday retail sales could increase
3.9 percent. Deloitte LLP estimated last month sales could climb
as much as 4.5 percent.  Accenture, however, said fewer consumers expect economic
concerns to impact their shopping plans and only 18 percent said
they would spend less than last year.  Trending Up  Still, shoppers will be focused on discounts, with 94
percent indicating it will be an important part of their
purchasing decisions. “Although retailers’ main draw on
Thanksgiving Day and Black Friday will be ’doorbuster’ deals,
shoppers will be demanding discounts of 30 percent or more
throughout the season,” Chris Donnelly, global managing
director of Accenture’s retail practice, wrote in a statement.  Thanksgiving Day is also marking itself as an “established
holiday season event,” with 38 percent of respondents saying
they are likely to shop at four or more stores that day. Almost
three-quarters of those surveyed said they had already started
their holiday shopping or plan to do most of it by the end of
November.  The most popular presents will be gift cards, followed by
apparel, toys and electronics. Big-ticket items also saw a rise
in projected sales and forty-two percent of shoppers are
planning to use half of their holiday shopping dollars to make
purchases online, Accenture said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Minsi Chung in  New York  at 
 mchung82@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  