-- Honda Plots U.S. Hybrid Resurgence Starting With Accord
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-10-07T21:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/honda-plots-u-s-hybrid-resurgence-starting-with-accord.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) , first to sell
hybrids in the U.S., plans a gasoline-electric lineup overhaul
starting with an Accord Hybrid it says tops  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
and Ford Motor Co. sedans as it seeks relevancy in the segment.  The 2014 version of Tokyo-based Honda’s flagship sedan goes
on sale Oct. 31, with a base price comparable with a V-6 engine
version of the Accord, and that’s rated as getting 50 miles (80
kilometers) per gallon in city driving. That’s just the start,
said  John Mendel , executive vice president of the U.S. unit.  Honda needs better-selling hybrids. Current models,
including the Insight hatchback, CR-Z coupe and a version of the
Civic, generate a fraction of Prius deliveries. Honda’s Insight
beat the Toyota hybrid to the U.S. by about six months. Yet the
company that led U.S. fuel economy ranking for years stumbled in
designing a compelling challenger to Prius.  “Accord is a great place for us to stop the science
experiments and really make a name for our hybrids,” Mendel
said in an interview in  San Antonio  last week. “We’re known for
fuel economy, but in hybrids, it’s about relevance and volume.
We think Accord can do that.”  The Accord Hybrid’s label rating, a combined  47 mpg  in city
and highway driving based on U.S. government tests, ranks it
behind only Prius, a mid-size car that averages 51 mpg in the
city, 48 mpg on the highway and  50 mpg  combined, the best of any
non-rechargeable vehicle in the U.S.  While  Ford (F) ’s Fusion hybrid is also rated 47 mpg combined,
Ford faces lawsuits claiming the car’s mileage is overstated.
Toyota’s hybrid Camry averages a combined  41 mpg .  Prius’ Shadow  Toyota expects to sell 250,000 Prius models this year. By
comparison, Honda’s current hybrid line is on a pace to sell
about 19,000 vehicles this year.  Combined sales of hybrids, plug-in hybrids and battery-only
autos are headed for a record this year. Through September U.S.
car buyers bought about 450,000 such vehicles, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg, up 28 percent from about 352,000 a year
earlier. Last year was a record for electric-drive vehicles,
with sales of about 475,000 cars and light trucks.  Honda anticipates sales of Accord Hybrid, priced from
$29,155 to $34,905, will fall in the “2,500 to 4,000” units
per month range of Ford’s Fusion Hybrid and the Toyota Camry
Hybrid, Mendel said.  The Accord Hybrid’s new two-motor powertrain has components
adapted from Honda’s futuristic FCX Clarity hydrogen fuel-cell
sedan and battery-electric Fit EV, Hiroo Shimada, the chief
engineer who oversaw development of the Accord system, said in
an interview.  Accord Sales  The Accord is the second-best-selling mid-size sedan in the
U.S. this year, with 282,102 deliveries, behind Camry’s 318,990.
The pattern has changed little for more than a decade.  Following the Accord, the company this year also releases a
three-motor, all-wheel drive “sport hybrid” version of the
premium Acura RLX sedan. A variation of its so-called SH-AWD
powertrain will also be used in the 2015 NSX supercar Honda
plans to build in  Ohio , the company said.  For lower-priced small vehicles, Honda has a new single-motor, dual clutch powertrain that’s being used first on a
version of the new Fit subcompact that’s gone on sale in  Japan .  There’s no plan to sell Fit hybrids in the U.S. Still, the
car’s gasoline-electric system may appear on other models,
Mendel said.  “It’s a surprisingly fuel-efficient system,” he said.  New Models  New Honda and Acura hybrids are in the works, in part to
help the company comply with the U.S. government’s push to
double the average fuel efficiency of new vehicles by 2025, as
well as to address volatile fuel prices, Mendel said. The
company also wants to burnish its reputation as an industry
leader in fuel economy and advanced technology, he said.  Accord Hybrid “can be a great entry point to establish our
manufacturing prowess and development expertise in the hybrid
area,” Mendel said. “Fifty miles a gallon is going to cut
through.”  Honda’s American depositary receipts fell 1.2 percent to
$37.91 at the close yesterday in  New York . They have gained 2.6
percent this year, compared with a 14 percent advance in the
benchmark NYSE Composite Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  