-- One in Ten Adolescents Force Sexual Contact, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-10-08T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/one-in-ten-adolescents-force-sexual-contact-study-finds.html
About 1 in 10 young people have
committed some type of sexual violence during their life,
according to one of the first studies to look at young male and
female perpetrators on a national level.  Research published in  JAMA Pediatrics  found about 10
percent of those 21 years old and younger said they committed an
act of coercive sexual contact, including kissing or touching
someone against the other person’s will, convincing someone to
have sex with them when the person didn’t want to, attempted
rape and completed rape.  More than 1 million people are victims of sexual violence
each year in the U.S., costing almost  $127 billion  in medical
and mental health costs, lost earnings, pain and diminished
quality of life, the research found. The study is one of the
first to provide national estimates of young perpetrators of
sexual violence, said Michele Ybarra, the lead study author .  “We need to start talking to our kids before they’re 16
years old about what healthy sex is and what unhealthy sex is,”
said  Ybarra , president and research director of the San
Clemente, California-based Center for Innovative  Public Health 
Research, a nonprofit group examining the effect that technology
has on health.  Researchers in the study analyzed data from 1,058 people
ages 14 to 21 who took part in the  Growing Up with Media  study
from 2006 to 2012. The Growing Up With Media Study, a
collaboration between the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention and the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public
Health in Baltimore, is an continuing survey of about 1,600
youth and their caregivers.  Study Findings  The study found that 108 young people reported committing
some type of  sexual violence  in their lifetime. Eight-four
youths, or 8 percent, committed forced contact by kissing,
touching or making someone else do something sexual knowing the
other person didn’t want to; 33, or 3 percent, convinced someone
to give into sex when they knew the other person didn’t want to
called coercive sex; 43, or 3 percent, attempted rape; and 18,
or 2 percent, forced someone to have sex or completed rape.  Almost all of those who committed their first act of
coercive sexual contact at ages 15 years or younger were male,
the study showed. At ages 16 and 17 years about 90 percent were
male. By ages 18 and 19 though, the number of male and female
perpetrators were about equal. Females tended to have older
victims, while males had younger victims, the researchers said.  About 40 percent of those who committed sexual violence did
so for the first time by 16 years of age, the paper said.  Perpetrators had more exposure to television, music, games
and Internet sites that depict sexual and violent situations
than those who didn’t commit the crimes, the authors found.  Emotional Coercion  Those in the study who tried to coerce or actually forced
someone to have sex used arguing, pressure, anger or guilt to
get their way rather than threats or physical force. The victims
were most often a boyfriend or girlfriend and about half of the
perpetrators blamed the victim for the sexual violence, the
paper said.  Most of the perpetrators said no one found out about the
incident. Only 1 percent said they had contact with police
following their crime and 1 percent said they were arrested, the
paper found.  “The rate of perpetration is concerning,” said Ybarra.
“The lack of identification and consequences for perpetrators
is concerning.”  More programs are needed to better identify those who
commit these acts and to encourage bystanders to come forward
when something occurs, she said. More research also is needed to
understand the differences between male and female perpetrators
and how to intervene.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  