-- Hong Kong Stocks Drop as U.S. Debt Limit Impasse Hurts Sentiment
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-10-07T01:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/hong-kong-stocks-drop-as-u-s-debt-limit-impasse-hurts-sentiment.html
Hong Kong  stocks  fell as the
political impasse over the U.S. debt limit and government
shutdown weighed on investor sentiment. Energy and materials
companies led declines.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  dropped 0.8 percent to 22,967.20 as of
9:34 a.m. in Hong Kong. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) ,
also known as the H-share index, declined 1 percent. Mainland
markets are shut until tomorrow. U.S. House of Representatives
Speaker  John Boehner  said lawmakers won’t raise the debt ceiling
without packaging it with other provisions.  “With things evolving as they do, it’s probably time to
get a little bit worried,” Arnout Van Rijn, chief investment
officer for Robeco Groep NV’s Hong Kong division, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. The firm oversees $200 billion
globally. “What’s going to happen to U.S. interest rates now?
That will have an impact on how markets are going to behave.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.5 percent
today. The gauge posted its second weekly decline last week as
the first partial government shutdown in 17 years began. The
budget impasse has raised concern that lawmakers will be unable
to agree on increasing the $16.7 trillion debt limit. The
Treasury Department has said measures to avoid exceeding the cap
will be exhausted by Oct. 17.  Data from payrolls to retail sales will be delayed as long
as the shutdown continues, making it harder for the  Federal
Reserve  to assess the economy as it considers when to start
paring unprecedented monetary stimulus. Fed San Francisco
President  John Williams  estimated a two-week government halt
would shave 0.25 percentage point off fourth-quarter economic
growth.  The  Hang Seng Index  gained 2.1 percent this year through
Oct. 4 on better-than-expected Chinese data and after the
Federal Reserve unexpectedly refrained from cutting stimulus.
Hong Kong’s benchmark equity gauge traded at 11.1 times
estimated earnings as of Oct. 4, compared with 15.2 for the S&P
500.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  