-- Monte Paschi to Cut 3,360 Jobs in $5.6 Billion Rescue
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-10-08T09:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/monte-paschi-to-shed-more-staff-in-return-for-eu-bailout.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
 Italy ’s third-biggest bank, pledged to cut an extra 3,360 jobs
and increase capital to win European Union support for 4.1
billion euros ($5.6 billion) in aid. The shares surged.  Monte Paschi will shed 8,000 staff by 2017, up from a
previous goal of 4,640 reductions by 2015, it said on its
website yesterday. The Siena-based company will also carry out a
2.5 billion-euro share sale next year and reduce administrative
costs by 440 million euros by 2017.  “This is a solid restructuring plan, built upon a strong
turnaround track record, clearly identified actions and prudent
macroeconomic assumptions,” Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola said on a conference call with analysts yesterday.  Viola, 55, and Chairman Alessandro Profumo are being forced
by European regulators to conduct a more rigorous overhaul of
the world’s oldest bank than initially planned to secure the
state aid. Viola and Profumo, 56, appointed last year, sought
the cash after their predecessors lost billions of dollars on
Italian sovereign debt and derivatives contracts.  Shares Climb  Monte Paschi’s shares advanced as much as 6.7 percent in
Milan, the biggest gain in almost two months. They climbed 3.3
percent to 23.9 cents at 10:37 a.m., valuing the company at 2.8
billion euros.  The plan also sets a profit goal of about 900 million euros
for 2017 and caps management pay at 500,000 euros annually. The
bank already reduced its workforce by 2,700 to 28,473 as of the
end of June.  Monte Paschi expects EU approval of its restructuring plan
by Nov. 14, it said yesterday.  While management’s track record shows the cost target could
be achieved, the rights issue carries “strong execution risk,”
Manuela Meroni, an analyst at Banca IMI SpA in Milan, said in an
e-mailed report today.  The bank, whose former managers are the subjects of a fraud
probe linked to derivatives contracts, had pledged to present
the strategy to EU regulators two weeks ago.  The delay came amid protracted negotiations between Italian
and EU officials. In a July letter to Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni, the European regulator recommended executive pay
caps, lower costs and cutting Italian sovereign-debt holdings
and trading activities.  Massimo Masi, head of the Uilca employees’ union for banks,
said he’s concerned the job reductions “will have a devastating
impact” on the bank’s labor force. Banking unions are planning
to meet Viola today to discuss the restructuring measures, he
said in an e-mailed statement.  Capital Increase  Monte Paschi said it will use the capital increase to help
repay 3 billion euros of government funds next year and the rest
by 2017.  UBS AG (UBSN)  is advising on the offering.  The state aid will be converted into new shares for the
government “should market conditions prevent the completion of
the capital raising within the time frame set,” Chief Financial
Officer Bernardo Mingrone said on yesterday’s conference call
with Viola.  “The capital hike and the plan’s execution risk remain
very high, unless a strategic investor shows interest in
participating,”  Carlo Tommaselli , a Milan-based analyst at
 Societe Generale SA (GLE) , wrote in an e-mailed report today.
“Failing the capital hike, nationalization would be necessary.
We remain cautious.”  Monte Paschi is open to alliances in Italy and abroad,
though “there’s nothing concrete for now,” Profumo told  Il
Sole 24 Ore (S24)  in an interview.  Raising Funds  The company agreed last month to more than double the
planned capital increase to repay the government. It also said
two weeks ago that it suspended interest payments on about 481
million euros of three hybrid notes that are part of its  Tier 1
capital , thereby requiring bondholders to contribute to the
restructuring.  The bank’s capital shortfall came after it made loss-making
bets on Italian sovereign debt between 2009 and 2011, either by
buying  government securities  or arranging structured deals
underpinned by Italian bonds.  Monte Paschi said it plans to reduce its 23 billion euros
of Italian sovereign debt, the most among the country’s biggest
banks relative to tangible equity, to about 17 billion euros in
2017. The lender has paid back 1 billion euros from the 29
billion euros it borrowed in the  European Central Bank ’s long-term refinancing operations, it said in the statement.  Obscuring Losses  Monte Paschi, whose largest shareholder is the Fondazione
Monte dei Paschi di Siena,  posted a loss  of 279.3 million euros
in the second quarter as net interest income dropped. The bank,
which pays 9 percent annual interest on the bonds it sold to the
government in an initial bailout, must substitute the debt for
stock if it’s unprofitable this year.  Monte Paschi is asking for the financial support as
prosecutors probe how former managers at the company, which
piled up losses of 7.9 billion euros in the past two years, used
derivative contracts to obscure more than 700 million euros of
losses. Three former executives are on trial for allegedly
obstructing regulators by hiding a document on a deal signed
with  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  in 2009.  In a separate probe, magistrates are accusing New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and at least one of its employees of
withholding information from regulators about how it financed
Monte Paschi’s purchase of Banca Antonveneta SpA in 2008.
JPMorgan said in a statement last week that the bank and its
employees “acted correctly at all times,” and it planned to
“vigorously” defend itself.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  