-- Moody’s Sees Low Chance of U.S. Default as Shutdown Persists
-- B y   H a s l i n d a   A m i n   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-10-07T08:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/moody-s-sees-low-chance-of-u-s-default-as-shutdown-persists.html
Moody’s Investors Service said it
sees a “very low” chance the U.S. will default on its debt
payments as a stalemate between President  Barack Obama  and House
Republicans showed little sign of thawing.  The impact of the partial government shutdown on the
economy may not be particularly damaging in the short term, and
the effect would be seen gradually over time if it was an
extended one, Chief Executive Officer Ray McDaniel said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Bali on Oct. 5.  The impasse may threaten the U.S.’s ability to meet its
payment obligations as Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew says
Congress needs to pass a debt-ceiling increase by Oct. 17 or the
U.S. will be “dangerously low” on cash and risk defaulting.
U.S. Speaker John Boehner said the House can’t pass an increase
to the debt ceiling without packaging it with other provisions.  “There’s, we still think, a good chance that there will be
resolution around the debt ceiling,” McDaniel said. “Even if
there’s not resolution on the debt ceiling, we think that the
likelihood that Treasury security payments would be prioritized
highly is strong.”  Obama, in an interview with the Associated Press, said he
expects Congress will reach an agreement to raise the $16.7
trillion debt limit in time to avert a default. The U.S. will
run out of borrowing authority on Oct. 17 and will have $30
billion in cash after that. The Treasury has warned a default
could have catastrophic consequences that might last decades.  Top Ratings  “We are not going to pass a clean debt limit,” Boehner
said in an interview on ABC’s “This Week” program on Oct. 6.
“The votes are not in the House to pass a clean debt limit.”  The U.S. Treasury’s cash balance will be depleted no later
than Oct. 31 and “possibly quite a bit sooner,” according to a
note dated Oct. 5 from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. In the event of
a missed principal or interest payment, there is a possibility
that fund redemptions might broadly increase due to investor
concern, prompting liquidation of Treasuries by money market
mutual funds, it said.  The U.S. has the top ranking from Moody’s and Fitch
Ratings, while Standard & Poor’s has it one step lower. Global
bond yields showed investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s and
50 percent of S&P’s rating and outlook changes last year, more
often disagreeing when the companies said governments were
becoming safer or more risky, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  