-- Moody’s Keeps Negative Outlook on Russia Banks as Bad Debts Grow
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-10-07T13:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/moody-s-keeps-negative-outlook-on-russia-banks-as-bad-debts-grow.html
Russian lenders’ profitability will
decline amid slower economic growth and rising bad debt,
according to Moody’s Investors Service, which kept its negative
outlook on the country’s banking system for a second year.  Banks will face “challenging” conditions through 2014,
with problem loans set to surpass 10 percent of total lending in
the next 12 to 18 months, from about eight percent at the end of
2012, Moscow-based analysts Eugene Tarzimanov and Yaroslav Sovgyra said in an e-mailed report today. Capital buffers are
likely to remain “relatively low” with Tier One capital ratios
of 10 to 11 percent, the analysts said.  Russia is struggling with the slowest economic growth since
a 2009 recession as a weakening global recovery saps demand for
its commodity products. The  World Bank  cut its forecast for
expansion in 2013 to 1.8 percent last month from 2.3 percent
previously. Net capital  outflow  reached an estimated $12.9
billion in the third quarter, compared with $7.9 billion in the
same period a year earlier, according to the central bank.  “Contraction within the economy’s core sectors, such as
manufacturing and construction, poses asset-quality risks
because these sectors drive a large part of banks’ loan
quality,” Tarzimanov and Sovgyra said. “Rising new loan-loss
provisions caused by deteriorating asset quality and declining
net interest margins will lead to lower profitability.”  Lending growth will slow to as little as 10 percent this
year and next, from 20 percent in 2012, with the corporate
market “particularly sluggish,” the analysts said. “The
banks’ stable funding and liquidity positions only partly offset
the negative drivers.”  Ruble Pressure  The pressure on the ruble has “intensified” this year,
“further suppressing growth prospects” for banks, according to
Moody’s. A weaker ruble is “negative” for the performance of
foreign-currency loans, which account for 17 percent of gross
loans this year, most of which are unhedged, Moody’s said.  The ruble has retreated 6.1 percent versus the dollar this
year, trading at 32.2815 by 4 p.m. in Moscow.  While Moody’s has maintained its negative outlook on the
Russian banking system since October 2011, outlooks were stable
on 87 out of 110 rated Russian companies as of last month,
according to the report. Most of the “generally low” bank
ratings “already incorporate prevailing risks,” the analysts
said.  Financial shares declined 0.3 percent on average on the
benchmark  Micex index . VTB Group,  Russia ’s second-largest
lender, fell 1.2 percent in Moscow, heading for the lowest close
since September 2009. The bank slid 1.5 percent to $2.596 in
London trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  