-- Morgan Stanley Seen Leading Profit Gains at U.S. Banks
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-10-08T16:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/morgan-stanley-seen-leading-profit-gains-at-u-s-banks.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Bank of America Corp. 
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  are poised to lead the six largest U.S.
lenders by reporting a jump in earnings that may surprise some
investors fixated on a slump in trading and mortgage lending.  The three banks probably will post combined third-quarter
profit of $8.64 billion, or 14 percent more than a year earlier,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will
report a 7.8 percent drop, the estimates show. Five of the six
firms may have squeezed more profit from each dollar of revenue
as they benefited from expense cuts and a stronger  U.S. economy .  “I see companies that are improving their profitability,”
said  David Hilder , an analyst at Drexel Hamilton LLC in New York
who recommends buying stock in five of the banks including
Morgan Stanley. Investors may be caught off guard “if
individual analysts or the market have been too focused on lower
fixed-income trading revenue or mortgage refinancing revenue.”  JPMorgan is among lenders that said results will suffer
from a bond-trading slump, while Wells Fargo guided analysts to
expect mortgage originations to fall by almost 30 percent. The
forecasts reflected clients pulling back amid speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will slow its $85 billion in monthly bond
buying. That led analysts to cut estimates for earnings at the
six banks by 6.7 percent in September.  Cutting Estimates  It was the biggest drop in average estimates in the final
month of a quarter since a decline of more than 24 percent in
June 2012. The revisions this time began before the Fed
announced Sept. 18 it would maintain purchases, which may have
given banks a bump in trading during the quarter’s final days.  The headwinds until then mean Morgan Stanley probably
generated more revenue than Goldman Sachs for the first time in
two years, according to the estimates.  Goldman Sachs, (GS)  once the
most profitable Wall Street firm, gets the largest share of its
income from trading of any of the six banks. Morgan Stanley
Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 55, has been reshaping his
firm to rely more on its brokerage for earnings as U.S. stock
markets reach record highs.  In total, the six banks probably will report revenue of
$100.9 billion for the quarter, a 3.4 percent decline from a
year earlier, according to analysts’ estimates.  ‘Very Benign’  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, and Wells Fargo,
the nation’s top mortgage lender, kick off earnings Oct. 11.
 Bank of America , Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs
release results the following week. Spokesmen for the lenders
declined to comment on earnings before the reports.  “With mortgage and trading revenue pressures now
understood and asset quality very benign, we expect most
companies to be able to post in line with or above these lowered
expectations,”  Jason Goldberg , a Barclays Plc analyst in New
York, wrote today in a note to clients. Goldberg predicts that
more than half of the 25 banks he covers will beat Wall Street
profit estimates.  Banks have countered revenue declines by dismissing
workers, consolidating offices and wringing costs out of
operations -- efforts that are starting to pay off. In the first
few years after the crisis, many firms talked about expense
reductions with limited success.  Cost Savings  Wells Fargo announced in July 2011 it would cut $1.5
billion in quarterly costs before backtracking a year later in
favor of an efficiency-ratio target. Bank of America’s program,
announced two years ago, is designed to achieve $8 billion in
annual cost savings by 2015.  In this year’s first half, JPMorgan reduced noninterest
expense by $2.02 billion compared with the year-earlier period.
San Francisco-based Wells Fargo cut $735 million from costs, and
Bank of America trimmed $671 million. Citigroup’s expenses rose
by $234 million.  The cost-cutting hasn’t helped firms raise their returns on
equity, or ROE, to pre-crisis levels, when they averaged more
than 20 percent. Wells Fargo led banks with a 14 percent ROE in
the first half, while JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs posted 13
percent and 12 percent, respectively. Citigroup, Morgan Stanley
and Bank of America were all below 9 percent.  Morgan Stanley’s third-quarter  profit  probably will rise 30
percent to $819 million, adjusting for one-time items, the
estimates show. Earnings for Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America, the nation’s second-largest lender, may climb
14 percent to $2.55 billion, while Wells Fargo’s increase 12
percent to $5.28 billion.  Legal Disputes  Goldman Sachs’s earnings may slide 12 percent to $1.29
billion. JPMorgan’s profit could fall 11 percent to $5.3 billion
as it sets aside more funds to end legal disputes. Citigroup may
say earnings fell 1 percent to $3.24 billion.  While Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley grappled with a drop
in trading, Morgan Stanley probably boosted revenue 16 percent
at its retail brokerage, the largest in the U.S. by adviser
count, according to estimates from Brad Hintz, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York. Wells Fargo, owner of
the third-biggest brokerage, also may benefit from commissions,
Hilder said.  Morgan Stanley’s total revenue may climb 1.4 percent to
$7.66 billion, while Goldman Sachs’s drops 12 percent to $7.35
billion, according to analysts surveyed.  Morgan Stanley  shares  rose most among the six banks during
the quarter, climbing 10 percent. That compares with a 4.6
percent gain for Goldman Sachs and a 2.4 percent advance in the
broader Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index of 81 firms.  Employment, Housing  The trading slump is being offset as U.S. employment and
home prices rise, helping borrowers avoid default. Home values
across the U.S.  climbed  6.4 percent last year after declining 25
percent in the prior five years, according to the National
Association of Realtors. Prices  rose  11.2 percent this year
through July, according to a S&P/Case-Shiller index.  “Revenue is coming in soft,” said  Frederick Cannon ,
director of research at Stifel Financial Corp.’s KBW unit in New
York. “You are offsetting that with credit and expense saves.”  JPMorgan may report it released $1.65 billion of reserves,
Deutsche Bank AG analysts estimated in a Sept. 25 report. Bank
of America may report $1 billion of releases, while Wells Fargo
discharges $700 million.  Expenses will continue sliding at most firms, led by job
cuts. Bank of America may shrink costs by $650 million from the
second quarter, while Wells Fargo trims $600 million, JPMorgan
analysts wrote in a Sept. 18 report.  ‘Big Tailwind’  Wells Fargo has announced plans to dismiss more than 4,800
workers in its home-loan production business as rising rates
curtail refinancings. Bank of America is cutting 2,100 jobs and
closing 16 offices by Oct. 31, two people with direct knowledge
of the plan said last month. New York-based Citigroup, the
third-largest U.S. lender, said it’s cutting about 1,000 jobs in
mortgage sales, underwriting and other roles.  Wells Fargo Chief Financial Officer Timothy Sloan, 53, said
last month that the home lender would make 29 percent fewer
mortgages in the third quarter than it did in the second. Gain-on-sale margins, what the bank makes when it sells home loans
into the secondary market, would fall 32 percent, he said.  Mortgage lending “was a big tailwind to the industry for
those guys that embraced it,”  Paul Miller , an analyst with FBR
Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia, and former examiner for
the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia , said in an interview.
Now as volumes shrink, “you are seeing capacity coming out.”  Fixed Income  Global investment banks such as New York-based Goldman
Sachs and Morgan Stanley probably will report a 35 percent drop
in fixed-income revenue from a year earlier,  Kian Abouhossein , a
JPMorgan analyst, said in an Oct. 2 note to clients.  Jefferies Group LLC, whose third quarter ended in August,
said fixed-income trading revenue plunged 88 percent. European
firms including Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank and London-based
Barclays Plc told investors that bond-trading revenue would
probably fall significantly. Equity trading revenue may offset
the slide and climb 10 percent, Abouhossein said.  “In terms of trading activity, July and August were
soft,” said Devin Ryan, a bank analyst at  JMP Group Inc. (JMP)  in New
York. Recent strength in bond trading is “probably too little,
too late for the third quarter, but the question will be: Does
this recent improvement persist?”  Claims ‘Crescendo’  Fed policy may also undercut capital positions at banks by
pushing yields higher and eroding the value of bond portfolios.
A 0.64 percentage-point rise on the yield of the 10-year
Treasury note in the second quarter led to losses so big at Bank
of America that  shareholders’ equity  fell, even while the firm
had a $4 billion profit. The effects may be muted in the third
quarter, with 10-year yields rising only 0.12 percentage points.  The trading headwinds were compounded by additional costs
from litigation.  JPMorgan CFO Marianne Lake signaled at an investor
conference last month that the New York-based bank led by CEO
 Jamie Dimon , 57, will boost its litigation reserve by more than
$1.5 billion in the third quarter to help cover a “crescendo”
of potential legal claims.  That figure might rise. The firm has been discussing an $11
billion settlement with federal and state authorities to resolve
probes tied to mortgage bonds, according to a person with
knowledge of the talks. Citigroup may report $700 million in
legal costs, according to the Deutsche Bank analysts.  Weak Demand  Lenders also are facing weak demand from borrowers. Loans
made to companies and held by the 25 largest U.S. banks rose to
$855.9 billion in the week ended Sept. 25, a gain of less than 1
percent over June, according to Fed data.  Consumer debt ,
including residential real-estate loans, fell 2.2 percent to
$2.24 trillion, according to the data.  Combined profit at the five largest U.S. regional banks,
which rely more on lending, may decline 18 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, while revenue slides 12 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from analysts’
estimates. That would be the biggest drop in revenue since at
least the financial crisis, the data show.  Even if bank profits surpass estimates, investors may focus
on the mounting litigation and sliding revenue.  “It’s the quality of earnings growth,” FBR’s Miller said.
“The earnings are fine, it’s the growth that is fleeting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  