-- Mortgage-Bond Revival Stymied as Fed Maps Out Stimulus Pullback
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-10-07T18:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/mortgage-bond-revival-stymied-as-fed-maps-out-stimulus-pullback.html
A revival of U.S. issuance of
mortgage bonds not guaranteed by the government is being stymied
by the Federal Reserve’s debate over when to reduce record
stimulus, according to panelists at Information Management
Network’s ABS East conference.  “As you got into the middle of May, just the talk of the
possibility of considering  tapering was enough to substantially
change market conditions,” Peter Sack, a managing director at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said today at the annual convention in
Miami. “It wouldn’t be surprising to see very little if any”
issuance for the rest of 2013, he said.  Sales are slumping as relative yields on the debt climb,
making it more expensive for lenders sell the securities, Sack
said. About $12.5 billion in deals tied to new loans have been
sold this year, up from $3.5 billion in all of 2012, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales have been building after
freezing five years ago amid tumbling home values and soaring
defaults.  Conservative projections at the end of the first quarter
were for about $20 billion in new issuance this year, Sack said.  Mortgage originations to buy new homes and to refinance
loans have slowed since Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on May
22 that the central bank may curtail $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases as soon as September, said Patrick Tadie, an executive
vice president at  BNY Mellon , speaking on the same panel. The
Fed kept its bond buying program unchanged at its September
meeting.  PennyMac, Shellpoint  “The rental market will continue to heat up,” Tadie said.
“Homeownership will continue to  decline , at least in the short-term.”  New issuers such as PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust, the
real-estate investment trust run by former Countrywide Financial
Corp. executives, and mortgage-bond pioneer Lewis Ranieri’s
Shellpoint are dominating the market, Tadie said. Banks are not
likely to become active issuers in the near term, Sack said.  “It’s not economical when some of these entities that
could be issuers are underinvested in terms of deposits,” Sack
said. “It’s hard to say what the new normal of the market will
be.”  The pool of bond buyers has shifted as well, said Steven Gaenzler of Five Bridges Advisors LLC. The mortgage market
always had a “backstop buyer,” which ranged from Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac to real estate investment trusts, he said. The
Fed is that buyer now, according to Gaenzler.  “One of the elephants in the room is who is the marginal
buyer,” Gaenzler said during the panel. “We haven’t figured
out who that buyer is going to be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 Smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  