-- Osborne Boosts Mortgage-Boosting Plan as Concerns Remain
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-10-08T10:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/osborne-gets-six-banks-to-join-mortgage-plan-as-concerns-remain.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne began the second phase of his mortgage-boosting
plan as concerns persist that it will fuel a property bubble.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s Natwest unit and  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Halifax and Bank of  Scotland  will start
offering Help-to-Buy mortgages this week, with Virgin Money
Holdings U.K. Ltd. and Aldermore Bank planning to start in 2014,
the Treasury in London said in a statement today. The program
allows people to buy a home costing as much as 600,000 pounds
($964,000) with a deposit of as little as 5 percent.  The first phase came into effect in April, and Prime
Minister David Cameron last week brought forward the start of
the second from January, dismissing criticism that the plan may
help fuel a bubble. Halifax said this month that house prices
rose for an eighth month in September and lawmaker Andrew Tyrie,
who heads the Parliament’s Treasury Committee, said today that
intervention in the property market risks causing distortions.  “The government has yet to allay the committee’s
concerns,” Tyrie, a member of Cameron’s Conservative Party,
said in an e-mailed statement as the panel published a report in
 London . “Given the checkered history of interventions in
residential property, great care will need to be taken in both
the construction and running of this scheme.”  Guarantee Fees  Under the mortgage plan, the government guarantees as much
as 15 percent of the purchase price in return for a fee from the
lender. Fees will be charged as a percentage of the original
loan amount and be reset every year. For 2014, they will range
from 28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, for mortgages
between 80 percent and 85 percent of the value of the property,
to 90 basis points for loans between 90 percent and 95 percent,
Osborne said in a  written statement  to lawmakers today.  Cameron said today the government “had to act” to help
prospective homebuyers.  “Too many hardworking people are finding it impossible to
buy their own home,” the premier said in an e-mailed statement.
“Buying your first home is about far more than four walls to
sleep at night. It’s somewhere to put down roots and raise a
family. It’s an investment for the future.”  Halifax customers will be able to apply for mortgages under
the program starting Oct. 11. The bank is offering a two-year
fixed-rate of 5.19 percent. That’s more than the 1.94 percent
fixed rate it offers first-time buyers who can put down a 40
percent deposit, according to the bank’s website.  Loan Rates  Similarly, RBS is offering two- and five-year fixed rates
at 4.99 percent and 5.49 percent. That compares with a two-year
fixed-rate of 1.95 percent for first-time buyers who are able to
put down a 40 percent deposit, according to its website.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said in an e-mailed statement today that
it will also participate in Help to Buy later this year,
extending its current range of mortgages to include borrowers
with deposits of as little as 5 percent. Osborne said the
government expects more lenders to sign up in coming months.  Figures compiled by the  Bank of England  show the average
two-year fixed rate on 75 percent loan-to-value mortgages was
2.56 percent in August, and 4.51 percent on 90 percent loans.  Business Secretary Vince Cable, a member of Cameron’s
Liberal Democrat coalition partners, and the International
Monetary Fund have also expressed concerns about Help to Buy.
The Bank of England has said the market is recovering from low
levels of activity, though it pledged last month to be
“vigilant to potential emerging vulnerabilities.”  The prospect of continued low interest rates may also be
supporting the market. The BOE introduced forward guidance in
August and said it won’t consider raising its  benchmark rate 
from a record low until unemployment falls to 7 percent,
something it doesn’t forecast happening until late 2016. The
policy includes three conditions that may void the pledge.  “One of these is financial stability and a housing bubble
could certainly bring this knockout into play,” said  James Knightley , an economist at ING Bank in London. “It is early
days and much of the action is centered in London and the
southeast, but given housing activity has a high correlation
with general economic activity, we feel that the BOE will start
to tighten monetary policy much earlier than late 2016.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  