-- OTP Drops in Longest Losing Streak in 11 Months: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-10-07T13:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/otp-drops-in-longest-losing-streak-in-11-months-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, fell for a sixth day as the government proposed a plan
that allows customers to withdraw a limited amount of cash
without paying a transaction tax, forcing banks to take the hit.  The  stock  slid 1.1 percent to 4,189 forint by 2:08 p.m. in
Budapest, extending declines to the longest stretch of losses
since November. About 520,000 shares changed hands, or 45
percent of the three-month daily average. The benchmark  BUX
index (BUX) , in which OTP has the second-biggest weighting at 29.4
percent, slipped 0.5 percent.  Lawmakers from Hungary’s ruling Fidesz party have suggested
banks offer two free cash withdrawals in a month, making lenders
swallow a 0.6 percent tax that would still be payable to the
government. The step will further burden the banks that already
pay the highest industry levy in the European Union.  The government is getting “tough in its rhetoric on
banks” Istvan Kralik, a senior equities trader at KBC
Securities, said by phone from Budapest.  The government has set a Nov. 1 deadline for lenders to
agree on phasing out foreign-currency mortgages. Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  said on Sept. 6 Hungary will move ahead with
“eliminating” such loans if commercial banks failed to act.  The uncertainty over foreign-currency loans is also
weighing on the stock, KBC’s Kralik said. “We see a high
probability that the mortgage situation will be fixed under the
government’s terms.”  ‘Fast Buck’  Lenders should be able to levy charges to cover the cost of
cash withdrawals, Hungary’s Banking Association said in a
statement on Oct. 4.  Banks won’t be allowed to “make a fast buck on Hungarian
families,” Antal Rogan, the leader of Fidesz’s parliamentary
group, said on Oct. 5, the state news service MTI reported. Two
free cash withdrawals a month for as much as 150,000 forint
($686.8) is a consumer right, he said.  OTP shares have dropped 13 percent in the past three
months, the second-steepest retreat among 16 eastern European
banking stocks  tracked  by Bloomberg. Five analysts recommend
investors buy the shares, while 12 have a hold rating and 4 say
sell, data  compiled  by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  