-- Ovadia Yosef, Rabbi Who Led Followers Into Politics, Dies
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-10-07T17:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/ovadia-yosef-rabbi-who-led-followers-into-politics-dies-at-93.html
Ovadia Yosef, the ultra-Orthodox
cleric who revolutionized Israel by transforming Jews of Middle
Eastern and North African descent into a powerful political
force, has died. He was 93.  Yosef died today at the Ein Kerem Hospital of the Hadassah
Medical Center in  Jerusalem , Dan Gilon, one of the physicians
who treated the rabbi, said in an interview with Israel’s
Channel 2. Yosef was hospitalized last month. No cause of death
was given.  More than half a million people flooded the streets of
Jerusalem as the rabbi’s body was brought in a van to the
Sanhedria cemetery, the biggest crowd the city has ever seen for
a funeral, police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said in a telephone
interview.  “The Jewish people have lost one of the wisest men of this
generation,” Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in an e-mail, expressing “profound grief.”  The Iraqi-born former chief rabbi, with his trademark gold-embroidered dark robes, turban-like hat and sunglasses, was the
driving force behind  Shas , a political party founded for
Sephardic Jews who had long chafed at the control of Israel’s
Ashkenazi, or European-descended, ruling elite. His devotion to
empowering disenfranchised Sephardim and to religious
scholarship won him reverence among followers, while some of his
outspoken pronouncements stirred controversy outside his
disciples’ circles.  ‘Influenced Society’  “What Shas did for the first time in the nation’s history
was take democracy and transform it from slogan into reality,”
said Avishay Ben Haim, an Israeli author who is writing a
doctoral thesis about Yosef, at the  Hebrew University  of
Jerusalem. “The Sephardic community voted for itself instead of
for others and this influenced society as a whole. The success
of Shas brought with it the success of many Sephardic Jews in
academia, music and politics.”  As its following grew, Shas -- a Hebrew acronym for
Sephardic Guardians of the Torah, or Jewish holy book -- soon
captured enough seats in parliament to make or break all but
three of Israel’s governing coalitions since the party was
established in 1984. It was shut out of Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s current coalition by an alliance of parties seeking
to break the ultra-Orthodox influence over the budget and draft
exemptions for men from the community.  Saving a Life  Yosef was first seen as open to territorial concessions to
the Arabs in 1979 peace talks between Israel and  Egypt . He ruled
that saving a life, or “pikuach nefesh,” was more important
than the government’s grip on the war-won  Sinai Peninsula . The
land was returned to Egypt under an accord that year.  In the 1990s, Shas abstained in the vote on the first Oslo
accord with the Palestinians and voted against the second. In
2005, Yosef denounced Israel’s withdrawal from the  Gaza Strip ,
saying then-Prime Minister Ariel Sharon was torturing the people
of Israel with the plan.  “He was the spiritual umbrella or religious backbone for
many important steps in Israel’s history,” Ben Haim said. Yosef
didn’t support the second accord with the Palestinians because
of the attacks on Israelis that followed the first, he said.  Courting Controversy  Over the years, Yosef’s sometimes unintelligible, mumbled
rulings made news as they grew more contentious. He called
Netanyahu a “blind goat” and, in 2000, he enraged many
Israelis by saying the 6 million Jews murdered in the Holocaust
“were the reincarnations of the souls of sinners.”  Born in  Baghdad  in 1920, Yosef moved with his family to
 Palestine  before the state of Israel was established, according
to the Shas  website .  Considered an outstanding Jewish scholar in his teens,
Yosef was ordained as a rabbi at age 17, according to the Shas
party. He spent two years in Cairo as deputy chief rabbi. Yosef
left to return to Israel when during its 1948 war of
independence he thought Egyptian detectives were constantly
following him and his stay in Cairo became unpleasant, according
to the Chief Rabbinate’s  website .  He served as the spiritual leader of Israel’s Sephardic
community for 10 years, starting in 1973. Among the Orthodox,
especially those of Sephardic descent, he is considered one of
the most important religious authorities of recent generations.  His sixth son, Rabbi Yitzhak Yosef, was elected this year
to follow his father as Sephardic chief rabbi of  Israel , a
position he is supposed to hold for the next decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  