-- Lloyds CoCos Slide on Regulator Repayment Concerns: U.K. Credit
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-10-08T07:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/lloyds-cocos-slide-on-regulator-repayment-concerns-u-k-credit.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s $15
billion of contingent convertible bonds are underperforming
subordinated debt because regulatory changes threaten to prompt
repayment of the notes, triggering losses for investors.  The average yield premium investors demand to hold a sample
of 29 of Lloyds CoCo  securities  widened 25 basis points in the
past month, according to price data compiled by Bloomberg. 
Spreads on subordinated bonds in euros tightened 21 basis 
points,  according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro 
Subordinated Financials Index.  The Lloyds bonds fell after the  Prudential Regulation
Authority  published a consultation document on whether equity
should replace the securities in the bank’s capital structure.
Should that happen, under the terms of the notes Lloyds would be
allowed to redeem them at par, compared with current prices of
as much as 133 pence in the pound.  “There’s definitely concern there may be a call,” said
Daniel Bjork, who runs the $140 million Swisscanto Bond Invest
CoCo fund and has reduced his holdings of Lloyds bonds. “At
some point they’ll offer to exchange them for a price between
par and where they’re trading. That means the pain will be
shared.”  Capital Ratio  Matt Smith , a Lloyds spokesman in  London , declined to
comment on the bank’s plans.  Lloyds issued 9.5 billion pounds ($15 billion) of the
securities to bolster  capital ratios  after a 20 billion-pound
government bailout in 2008, and there are still about 9.15
billion pounds outstanding, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That makes Lloyds the biggest issuer of CoCo bonds
globally, accounting for more than 26 percent of the total,
Bloomberg data show.  The notes, a type of contingent capital, automatically
become equity if the issuers’ capital ratios slip below 5
percent. To compensate for that risk they carry coupons of more
than 7 percent, compared with an average of 5.5 percent on bonds
in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch subordinated financials
index.  The lender’s 79.5 million pounds of 14.5 percent bonds
maturing in January 2022 are quoted at 133.2 pence on the pound.
Its $986 million of 7.875 percent bonds due November 2020, one
of the larger bonds outstanding, are quoted at 106.25 cents on
the dollar to yield about 6.75 percent, Bloomberg prices show.  Conversion Ratio  Lloyds  reported  a Tier 1 capital ratio of 14.2 percent as
of June 30 under stricter definitions of what counts as capital
than those governing the bonds. Conversion wouldn’t take place
unless ratios fell to less than 3 percent under current
definitions, said  Simon Adamson , an analyst at CreditSights Inc.
in London.  “The bonds have become very popular because people can’t
foresee a situation where Lloyds breaches the trigger but
there’s little doubt that they’d be more popular if not for the
par call,” said Adamson.  Other issuers of contingent capital notes include London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC) , whose $3 billion of 7.625 percent securities
due November 2022 are quoted at 99.8 cents on the dollar and
yield 7.65 percent.  Lloyds will have to replace the debt if it decides to
exercise a call, meaning it will need to turn to professional
investors to buy them, said Paul Smillie, a Singapore-based
banking analyst at Threadneedle Asset Management, which oversees
$126.6 billion.  “Lloyds will have a major hole in its  capital structure  if
it calls them,” he said. “It will need capital markets
investors on its side to fill the gap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  