-- Pakistan Army Chief Hails Democracy in Announcing Retirement
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-10-07T06:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/pakistan-military-chief-hails-democracy-in-announcing-retirement.html
Pakistan ’s army chief Ashfaq Parvez Kayani said he’ll retire next month when his term expires,
ending speculation that he’ll stay on in a different role as the
nuclear-armed country’s democratic transition takes hold.  Kayani, who served two terms after former dictator Pervez
Musharraf appointed him in 2007, said he will step down on Nov.
29. His replacement will be chosen by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, who resurrected his career after Musharraf ousted him in
a 1999 coup, winning a May election that marked the first
transfer of power between elected civilian governments in
Pakistan’s 66-year history.  “It is time for others to carry forward the mission of
making Pakistan a truly democratic, prosperous and peaceful
country,” Kayani said in yesterday’s statement. “Institutions
and traditions are stronger than individuals,” he said in
dismissing “rumors” in the media about his future plans.  His successor will take charge at a time when Sharif’s
four-month-old government is seeking talks with pro-Taliban
militants to end a decade-long insurgency as the U.S. reduces
troop levels in neighboring  Afghanistan . The violence has
contributed to an economic slump that prompted Sharif to secure
a  $6.6 billion loan  from the International Monetary Fund.  Coup Risk  “Sharif will act very cautiously in picking Kayani’s
successor,” said Rashid Ahmed Khan, a professor of
international relations at the University of Sargodha in Punjab
province. “In Pakistan, where the army is still the most
powerful institution, you will never want someone who is
ambitious and has a political agenda. The risk of a military
coup is always there.”  Pakistan’s military has ruled the country of 193 million
people for more than half of its history. Kayani had a three-year term extended in 2010 to ensure continuity in the fight
against militants.  Sharif’s office picks the new army chief with approval from
the president, according to Pakistan’s  constitution . The
president, who is commander-in-chief of the armed forces and the
ceremonial head of the state, is required to act on the prime
minister’s advice.  During his tenure, Kayani removed soldiers from leadership
positions in civilian institutions and appeared before
parliament to justify military actions. Facing criticism after
the U.S. strike that killed Osama bin Laden in the army garrison
town of Abbottabad in May 2011, for instance, he explained to
elected lawmakers why the army had failed to detect either the
al-Qaeda leader’s presence or the raid.  During his term, the military also suffered its worst
attacks by the country’s Taliban guerrilla movement, including
an October 2009 assault that penetrated the perimeter of the
army’s headquarters in Rawalpindi. Militants in Pakistan killed
more than 1,200 civilians, soldiers and police this year in more
than 800 incidents from Jan. 1 to Aug. 31, including 85 suicide
and bomb attacks, according to the Interior Ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  