-- Philippines’ Domingo Says China May Become Biggest Export Market
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-10-07T07:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/philippines-domingo-says-china-may-become-biggest-export-market.html
China  will probably overtake Japan
and the U.S. to become the Philippines’ largest export market as
the Southeast Asian nation works to keep a territorial spat from
disrupting trade ties, Trade Secretary Gregory Domingo said.  “We are separating the commercial relationship from the
political and security relationship,” Domingo said today in an
interview in Bali,  Indonesia . “The sheer size of China’s market
and their proximity to us makes it natural that trade flows will
increase significantly in the years to come.”  Leaders from Asia-Pacific economies meeting this week are
seeking to boost trade to fend off slowing growth that prompted
the  World Bank  to cut forecasts for East Asia’s developing
nations this year and next. China and the Philippines are
embroiled in a territorial dispute over the ownership of fish
and gas-rich waters in the  South China Sea .  “We are treating everything like business as usual,”
Domingo said, calling the disputes an “irritant” in the two
nations’ economic relationship. Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  in August canceled a trip to Nanning city at China’s
request.  Trade Pacts  The Philippines is considering expanding a trade agreement
with Japan, studying a free trade deal with the European Union
and may join the Trans-Pacific Partnership in the longer term,
Domingo said.  Philippine exports rose 2.3 percent in July from a year
earlier. Shipments abroad totaled $52 billion in 2012 with sales
to China accounting for 12 percent of exports.  Moody’s Investors Service upgraded the Philippines to
investment grade last week and assigned a positive outlook.
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings earlier this year awarded it
investment rankings.  Philippine  expansion  held above 7 percent for a fourth
quarter in the three months through June, defying a regional
slowdown to remain, along with China, one of  Asia ’s best
performers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  