-- Polish Yields Drop to 8-Week Low as Gilowska Quits: Warsaw Mover
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-10-07T10:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/polish-yields-drop-to-8-week-low-as-gilowska-quits-warsaw-mover.html
Polish bond yields declined to an
eight-week low on expectations Zyta Gilowska’s successor on the
central bank’s rate-setting panel will be more reluctant to
tighten monetary policy in 2014.  The yields on  Poland ’s two-year government bonds dropped
four basis points to 3.02 percent at 11:31 a.m. in Warsaw, the
lowest since Aug. 13. The zloty weakened 0.1 percent to 4.2047
against the euro, depreciating for a second day.  President  Bronislaw Komorowski  accepted Gilowska’s
resignation from the 10-person Monetary Policy Council on Oct. 4
and has three months to select her replacement, according to
Polish law. The policy panel has kept its  benchmark rate  at
record-low 2.5 percent at its last two meetings after cuts by a
total of 225 basis points since November. Gilowska voted for one
of eight rate cuts since November, the central bank’s website
shows. She has missed at least five meetings since July 2012,
including some because of health issues, according to voting
records and comments from Governor  Marek Belka .  “Gilowska was one of the most hawkish members of the MPC,
so this change may potentially mean a tilt of balance of powers
in the council toward more dovish monetary policy,” Bank
Zachodni WBK SA economists, led by  Maciej Reluga , wrote in a
note today. “Theoretically, this can imply that rates may
remain at the current all-time low level a bit longer.”  While policy makers repeated after a meeting last week that
 interest rates  would be unchanged this year, central bank
Governor Marek Belka said in an interview on Sept. 27 that his
views were close to those central bankers who see stable
borrowing costs through at least the first half of 2014.  A gradual economic recovery can restart the debate on
interest rate cuts, fellow MPC member Elzbieta Chojna-Duch said
in an interview for TVN CNBC today.  Former central bank Governor Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, who’s
facing a recall referendum as Warsaw mayor on Oct. 13, may be
considered to fill the seat vacated by Gilowska, newspaper
Rzeczpospolita reported today citing a Warsaw official of ruling
 Civic Platform  whom it didn’t name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  