-- Portugal’s TAP Contacted ‘All the Time’ by Potential Investors
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-10-07T13:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/portugal-s-tap-contacted-all-the-time-by-potential-investors.html
Portuguese state airline TAP SGPS SA
said it’s being continuously contacted by potential investors as
the government looks to restart an auction 10 months after
blocking a takoever by Brazilian bidders.  Potential purchasers from  Europe  and beyond are showing an
interest in Lisbon-based TAP “all the time,” spurred by its
links to  emerging markets  including  Portugal ’s former colonies,
Chief Financial Officer Michael Conolly said in an interview.  “I am convinced that we have a very valuable piece in the
chess game of alliances,” Conolly said, citing TAP’s 80 weekly
 flights  to African and South American destinations such as
 Angola ,  Mozambique ,  Ghana ,  Mali  and nine cities in  Brazil . He
declined to say how much the airline might fetch.  Portugal said July 18 it would seek to restart a sale of
TAP in 2013 after last year spurning Brazilian investor German Efromovich’s  Synergy Group (8050) , which controls the Avianca airline
brands and had made the sole offer during an auction. It agreed
to dispose of the flag-carrier after requesting a bailout by the
 International Monetary Fund  and European Union in 2011.  While a deal with Efromovich would have created a “good
partnership,” there are further options available to TAP, with
other airlines coming forward despite market conditions that
would suggest interest in a takeover would be low, Conolly said.  Efromovich said on Sept. 10 that TAP might no longer be
first choice as a vehicle for expanding Synergy in Europe.  A sale would bring in fresh capital to fund growth, Conolly
said, adding that TAP’s route network “fits very well” with
the strategies of several other airlines. The company’s first-half loss narrowed marginally to 111 million euros ($151
million) from 112 million euros a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  