-- Pound Advances as U.K. Financial Optimism Improves; Gilts Rise
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-10-07T15:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/pound-rises-versus-dollar-before-bank-of-england-meets-this-week.html
The pound strengthened for the first
time in three days against the dollar after an industry report
showed optimism in the U.K.’s financial industry improved in the
third quarter, underlining the strength of the British economy.  Sterling advanced versus all except one of its 16 major
counterparts before the  Bank of England ’s announces its policy
decision on Thursday. The U.K. currency fell last week as Bank
of America Merrill Lynch said the rally that propelled it to a
nine-month high versus the dollar would wane. U.K. government
bonds rose after U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said
America risks defaulting on its payments, boosting demand for
haven assets.  “At the moment, you can’t ignore the data,” said  Paul Robson , senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of  Scotland 
Group Plc in  London . “People have to decide whether the longer-term outlook for sterling is still challenging or the pickup in
data that we’ve seen suggests that the recovery will be robust.
We think sterling is starting to look” too strong at current
levels, he said.  The pound climbed 0.5 percent to $1.6088 at 4:29 p.m.
London time, sliding 1.3 percent during the previous two days.
The U.K. currency strengthened 0.3 percent to 84.44 pence per
euro after depreciating 1.1 percent last week.  Sterling will weaken to $1.55 by year-end, Royal Bank of
Scotland’s Robson predicted.  A net 53 percent of respondents to a survey by the
 Confederation of British Industry  and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
said they were more optimistic about their business in the third
quarter, up from 31 percent in the previous three months.  Improving Data  Sterling climbed to $1.6260 on Oct. 1, the highest level
since Jan. 2, as improving economic data prompted investors to
increase bets the central bank would raise borrowing costs
earlier than it had predicted. Services activity expanded in the
month and house prices climbed, reports showed last week.  The pound advanced 5.3 percent in the past six months, the
best performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar was little
changed and the euro rose 5 percent.  Citigroup Inc.’s Economic Surprise Index for the U.K. fell
to 49.60 on Oct. 3, the lowest since Aug. 1. The gauge, which
indicates whether data beat or fell short of forecasts, climbed
to this year’s high of 113.30 on Aug. 19.  BOE Meeting  Bank of England policy makers led by Governor  Mark Carney 
have said they will keep  interest rates  at a record low at least
until unemployment falls to 7 percent, which they don’t see
happening until late 2016. The  unemployment rate  measured by
International Labour Organization methods was 7.7 percent in the
three months through July, the  Office for National Statistics 
said Sept. 11.  The central bank will keep its benchmark rate at 0.5
percent and its asset-purchase stimulus target at 375 billion
pounds when it announces its policy decision on Oct. 10,
according to Bloomberg News surveys of economists.  The benchmark 10-year  gilt yield  slid four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.71 percent. The 2.25 percent
security due in September 2023 rose 0.295, or 2.95 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 96.065.  Treasuries and bunds also advanced as U.S. lawmakers
remained at odds over an emergency budget needed to end a
government shutdown. The administration of President  Barack Obama  has said it won’t negotiate with Republicans over funding
the government or raising the debt ceiling, arguing those are
among the basic functions of Congress.  “On the 17th, we run out of our ability to borrow, and
Congress is playing with fire,” Lew said yesterday on  CNN ’s
“ State of the Union .”  The U.K. Debt Management Office is scheduled to sell 1.75
billion pounds of inflation-linked bonds due in 2019 tomorrow.  Gilts lost 3.1 percent this year through Oct. 4, according
to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bonds dropped 1.9
percent and Treasuries declined 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  