-- Rand Weakens as South Africa’s Yields Rise on U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-10-07T10:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/rand-weakens-as-south-africa-s-yields-rise-on-u-s-shutdown.html
The rand declined against the dollar
and South African bond yields rose as investor appetite for
riskier assets waned while U.S. lawmakers wrangled over the
nation’s debt ceiling and government shutdown.  The U.S. will exhaust measures to avoid breaching its debt
ceiling on Oct. 17. House of Representatives Speaker  John Boehner  said lawmakers won’t raise the limit without packaging
it with other provisions, a position opposed by President Barack
Obama. South Africa’s net foreign-currency and gold reserves
rose in September in line with estimates, the central bank
reported today.  “Markets are focused almost exclusively on the U.S.
government shutdown,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist at
Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.
“With no progress over the weekend,  risk aversion  is starting
to rise” and weigh on the South African currency, he said.  The rand depreciated 0.4 percent to 10.0305 per dollar as
of 12:36 p.m. in Johannesburg, the second-most today after
Mexico’s peso among major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 rose
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.04 percent.  South Africa ’s net  reserves  increased 0.4 percent last
month to $45.75, in line with the $45.8 billion median estimate
of five economists in a Bloomberg survey. Gross reserves climbed
to $50.02 billion last month from $47.95 billion in August after
the National Treasury raised $2 billion in an international bond
issue, the  Reserve Bank  said.  “We continue to find very little evidence of significant
outright foreign-exchange intervention activity by the
authorities in September,” Jeffrey Schultz, a Johannesburg-based economist at BNP Paribas Cadiz Securities, said in an e-mail.  While the Reserve Bank has been accumulating foreign
currency to help protect against swings in the rand, the
institution has said it will not attempt to interfere in the
level of the currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  