-- Treasuries Advance as Debt-Ceiling Deadlock Boosts Safety Demand
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-10-07T21:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/treasuries-rise-on-demand-for-safety-after-lew-default-warning.html
U.S. Treasuries rose as investors
sought safety and liquidity in the debt of the world’s largest
economy amid a political deadlock in efforts to raise the debt
ceiling and avoid the first American default.  Stocks declined as investors bought government debt after
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said Congress needs to increase
the borrowing limit by Oct. 17 or the nation will be unable to
pay its bills. The  difference in rates  between one- and three-month bills rose to the widest gap since the 2008 financial
crisis as investors sought a hedge against the risk of a default
on bills maturing closest to the debt-ceiling deadline.
Treasuries pared their advance before the U.S. sells $64 billion
of notes and bonds this week.  “Uncertainty brings higher prices for Treasuries,” said
Thomas di Galoma, head of U.S. rates sales at ED&F Man Capital
Markets in New York. “I don’t think we’re going to default.
This is a game of chicken, and it’s probably going to
continue.”  The benchmark  10-year yield  fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.63 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York  after
dropping as much as four basis points, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The 2.5 percent note maturing in August 2023
rose 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 98 28/32.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index of stocks  declined 0.9
percent.  Debt Auctions  Bonds trimmed gains likely due to “concern over demand at
the Treasury’s auctions this week,” said Gary Pollack, who
manages $12 billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche
Bank AG’s Private Wealth Management unit in New York.  “Given the government shutdown, given the concerns or
threats by certain people in  Washington  that the U.S. could
default,” said Pollack, “that could cause international
investors maybe not to step up in the same fashion that they did
in the past.”  The U.S. auctions $30 billion of three-year debt tomorrow,
$21 billion of 10-year securities on Oct. 9 and $13 billion of
30-year bonds on Oct. 10.  The  difference in rates  between one- and  three-month (USGG3M)  bills
reached 13.7 basis points, the biggest since September 2008. The
bill maturing Oct. 24 climbed to as high as 0.18 percent, while
rates on three-month bills touched 0.03 percent.  Past Crises  Two years ago, one-month bill rates climbed to a 29-month
high of 0.18 percent as the Aug. 2, 2011, deadline set by
Treasury to avoid a default approached. They traded at 0.015
percent in December 2012 before a year-end trigger would force
automatic spending cuts and tax increases.  Three-month Treasury bill rates touched negative 0.0101
percent on Sept. 27, the lowest level this year. The 2013
average is 0.048 percent. The three-month rate climbed to 0.09
percent before the August 2011 deadline, and rose as high as
0.081 percent in the week before Dec. 31, 2012.  During periods of uncertainty, investors typically seek a
haven in Treasuries because of the depth and liquidity of the
$11.6 trillion market, and because they are issued in dollars,
the world’s reserve currency. Treasuries rallied, with the 10-year yield falling 0.5 percentage point, in the two weeks after
S&P downgraded the U.S. credit rating to AA+ in August 2011.  Repo Rates  The average level of overnight Treasury general collateral
 repo rates  traded through 10 a.m. New York time with ICAP Plc,
the world’s largest inter-dealer broker was 0.08 percentage
point, less than the 0.11 percentage point average for the year
and compared with 0.32 percentage point on Aug. 1, 2011, the day
before the U.S. was projected to reach its borrowing limit then.  The surge in the rate then came when money-market mutual
funds scaled back investing amid concern the value of the
Treasury debt they held as collateral against the agreements
would slide if the looming debt-ceiling deadline wasn’t
extended.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut its forecast for fourth-quarter U.S. economic growth to 2 percent from 2.5 percent, the
company said in a report Oct. 4. The U.S. will probably have a
two-week government shutdown with no violation of the debt
ceiling, the report said.  The Obama administration has said it won’t negotiate with
Republicans over funding the government or raising the debt
ceiling, arguing that it is part of the basic functions of
Congress and shouldn’t be used as point of leverage.  ‘Held Hostage’  Speaker  John Boehner  said yesterday in an interview on ABC
that the  House of Representatives  can’t pass an increase to the
debt ceiling without packaging it with other provisions. He and
other Republicans have sought to end the shutdown by passing
legislation that would also delay for one year the mandate for
individuals to purchase health insurance, a part of Obama’s 2010
Affordable Care Act.  “The market has been held hostage and traders are being
forced to sit around and watch screens, waiting for headlines
that are taking their sweet time,” Larry Milstein, managing
director in New York of government-debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co. “We aren’t going to move out of the 2.65
percent-to-2.59 percent range until we get some sort of
resolution.”  The central bank buys  $85 billion  of Treasury and mortgage
debt each month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs, and
signs of economic improvement earlier in 2013 had raised bets
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  was preparing to reduce purchases.  Bank of America predicts the Fed to start tapering asset
purchases in January, from a previous estimate of December,
Wraith said.  Treasuries lost investors 2.52 percent this year, according
to the Bloomberg  U.S. Treasury Bond Index. (BUSY)  The Bloomberg Global
Developed  Sovereign Bond Index (BGSV)  has lost investors 2.9 percent in
that time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  