-- Redbox Owner Gains After Jana Partners Says Seeks Breakup
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-10-07T21:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/redbox-owner-gains-after-jana-partners-says-seeks-breakup.html
Outerwall Inc. (OUTR) , operator of the
Redbox movie kiosks, surged after activist investor Jana
Partners LLC reported a 13.5 percent stake and said it will seek
a sale of some or all of the company’s businesses.  Outerwall, with a market  value  of about $1.67 billion, rose
4 percent to $59.36 at the close in  New York . Jana disclosed its
position in a regulatory filing on Oct. 4.  Jana, run by co-founder  Barry Rosenstein , is targeting
Bellevue, Washington-based Outerwall after the company
 disappointed  investors for two straight quarters. Jana seeks the
sale, spinoff or shutdown of the Redbox Instant by Verizon film-streaming venture, which has failed to develop into a credible
threat to  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , as well as the Rubi coffee-vending
kiosks that made their debut in 2012, a person with knowledge of
the matter said on Oct. 4.  “The most likely outcome is that JANA Partners will be
joined by several other shareholders, and the group will succeed
in convincing management to focus on cash generation,”  Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles , said
in research note yesterday. “Outerwall’s balance sheet can
support some level of debt that would permit the company to buy
back a significant percentage of its stock.”  Outerwall has taken too long to develop new initiatives,
Pachter said. There is room to cut costs and sell the company’s
mature coin-counting business for a significant sum, Pachter
said. The analyst, who rates the stock outperform, projects
Outerwall could generate $300 million in annual free  cash flow ,
and may reach $78 in the next 12 months.  Phone Recycling  “While we believe that the company’s coffee and ecoATM
ventures have some potential, we have been uniformly skeptical
about its other initiatives,” Pachter said. “Many of our
clients have shared our skepticism.”  Free  cash flow  totaled $140.3 million in the past 12
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Long-term debt
was $524 million as of June 30.  Executives of Jana met last week with Outerwall management
to discuss options including a breakup, according to the person,
who sought anonymity because the talks are private. Cost cuts
and buybacks were also discussed, the person said.  Outerwall said it hired  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as financial adviser
and Perkins Coie LLP for legal advice. The stock rose 9.4
percent to $57.10 at the close in New York on Oct. 4 after Dow
Jones reported the Jana stake.  ‘Constructive Input’  “Outerwall welcomes the opinions of its shareholders and
is always open to constructive input,” the company, which
changed its name from Coinstar Inc. in July, said in a
statement. “We are committed to driving value for all Outerwall
shareholders and will continue to take actions to achieve this
important objective.”  With 3.78 million shares, Jana Partners is now Outerwall’s
biggest  investor , based on data compiled by Bloomberg. Jennifer
Fanjiang, general counsel for Jana, declined to comment beyond
the filing. Jennifer St. Clair, a spokeswoman for Redbox
Instant, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  owns 65 percent of Redbox Instant, which
began service in March.  Outerwall has added the vending machines that sell coffee
and recycle electronics, as well as starting the Redbox Instant
venture, to lessen dependence on Redbox DVD kiosks, which
provided 87 percent of 2012  revenue , based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company also operates coin-counting machines.  DVD Discounts  The shares fell 12 percent on Sept. 17 after the company
cut its forecast for third-quarter and full-year sales and
profit, citing discounting and shorter rental periods for DVDs.
The shares also dropped on July 26 after the company reported
second-quarter sales that missed analysts’ estimates.  Jana, with $7 billion under management, paid about $204.9
million for its shares, according to the filing. The sides will
probably meet again soon, the person said. The New York-based
firm, co-founded by Rosenstein in 2001, is pressing for a
strategy review that could lead to a sale of Outerwall or some
of its businesses, according to the filing.  Jana also is pressing for changes at  Safeway Inc. (SWY) , the
second-largest U.S. grocery chain. The group said last month it
may seek further discussions with the Pleasanton, California-based retailer about ways to boost returns to shareholders after
buying a 6.2 percent stake.  Options may include returning capital to Safeway
shareholders and replacing management, Jana said in a filing in
September.  Ashland Inc. (ASH) , the U.S. chemical maker that’s climbed
11 percent since Jana disclosed a stake in April, said last
month its board voted in favor of ending staggered three-year
terms for directors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  