-- Ripple Takes on Western Union With Deal to Grow Payments
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-10-07T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/ripple-takes-on-western-union-with-deal-to-grow-payments.html
Ripple Labs Inc. is expanding the
distribution of its digital currency and money-transfer software
through an agreement with cash-transaction network  ZipZap Inc. ,
signaling the growth of alternative payment methods.  Ripple, a San Francisco-based startup, operates payments
software and a digital currency that resides in a consumer’s
account known as a Ripple Wallet. Under the agreement, Ripple
will let consumers link those Wallets to ZipZap accounts. San
Francisco-based ZipZap -- which has payment centers across the
U.S. in locations such as  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  pharmacies and
hotels -- can then send a payment that someone makes through
their Ripple Wallet to a recipient elsewhere who also has the
software.  The move puts Ripple in competition with  Western Union Co. (WU) ,
which  typically  charges $40 for sending $500 in cash in person
from one U.S. location to another in minutes. ZipZap charges a
$3.95 fee when customers top up their Ripple Wallet account with
as much as $500, according to the company.  “If we have more places an average person can go to and
load value, it’s more valuable,”  Chris Larsen , chief executive
officer of Ripple, said in an interview. “It goes to utility.”  Dan Diaz, a spokesman for Western Union, didn’t return a
request for comment.  Virtual Currencies  Ripple’s agreement with ZipZap underscores the
proliferation of alternative methods of payment. Bitcoin and
several dozen other virtual currencies have sprung up in recent
years to let users buy everything from luxury cars to cupcakes
online and in the real world.  Ripple issues a virtual currency known as Ripples, of which
it holds a 25 percent slice. Each Ripple Wallet has to hold at
least 50 Ripples -- which people pay for using currencies from
U.S. dollars to Japanese yen to Bitcoins -- to function. The
company’s virtual currency and payments software are intended to
make it easy for people to exchange money, loyalty points or
airline miles for another currency.  Some 27,000 people have Ripple Wallet accounts, Larsen
said.  “There’ll still have to be massive adoption,” Ugo Egbunike, senior ETF specialist at index-fund researcher
IndexUniverse, said in an interview. “It might be cheaper than
Western Union, but there might be risks.”  Ripple was invented and developed by a group of programmers
at OpenCoin Inc., now called Ripple Labs. The first version was
released this year, and the software has recently been open
sourced, which means that anyone can build it into websites and
applications, as well as modify and develop it.  Ripple has raised about $3 million from venture capital
firms including Andreessen Horowitz, Google Ventures, FF Angel
IV, IDG Capital Partners, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Vast
Ventures and Bitcoin Opportunity Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  