-- Russian Torch Flameout Starts Relay to Most Expensive Olympics
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-10-07T14:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/russian-torch-flameout-starts-relay-to-most-expensive-olympics.html
Moscow is shutting stretches of road
around the capital for two days for the start of a 65,000-kilometer (40,400-mile) Olympic torch relay that ends at the
Sochi Winter Games in February.  The flame, given its own seat on a flight from  Athens  and
met at the airport by a military honor guard, will travel
throughout  Russia  on a relay to “show the world Russia as she
is, and as we love her,” President Vladimir Putin said
yesterday in a Red Square ceremony.  The choreographed arrival was no match for the Russian
weather as a wind gust extinguished the torch after his speech.
An onlooker  reignited  it with the help of a Zippo-style lighter.  The country has broken records by pouring about $50 billion
into preparations for the 2014 Winter Games. It’s trying to turn
a Soviet-era resort town into a year-round world class
destination. The international attention Russia has received so
far has not always been positive, with some international groups
upset over a law that punishes “propaganda of non-traditional
sexual relations.”  Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s biggest internet
company, forecast traffic in the capital would be a 7 on a scale
of 10 at 7 p.m. tonight, when some roads will remain shut for
the relay.  Opposition leader Alexei Navalny, who came in second in
Moscow’s September mayoral election after Putin-backed candidate
 Sergei Sobyanin , said on his  blog  today the torches cost 207
million rubles ($6.4 million) and were supposed to function in
-40 degrees Celsius and winds of up to 35 meters a second.  Another torch went out today as it was being carried within
sight of the Kremlin, according to a  video  posted on YouTube.  Krasmash , the company that produced the torches, also
designs Proton rockets. Russia launched a Proton-M Sept. 30, its
first successful take-off since another Proton-M carrying three
satellites worth billions of rubles exploded after liftoff in
July.  The flame’s 123-day route will bring it from the
Kaliningrad enclave on the Baltic Sea to Chukotka, the eastern
region closest to the U.S. It will pass through 83 Russian
regions and involve over 14,000 torchbearers, according to an
Olympic website.  Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said today he
planned to carry the Olympic flame for about 200 meters along a
Moscow avenue.  The Sochi Winter Olympics are scheduled for Feb. 6-23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  