-- Russia Bans Lithuania Dairy Imports as Tensions Flare
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-10-07T14:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/russia-halts-lithuania-dairy-imports-raising-tensions.html
Russia  banned dairy imports from
 Lithuania  due to what it said were safety concerns, adding to a
month of trade disruptions that the Baltic nation says are
politically motivated.  The European Union last month urged Russia to stop
targeting Lithuania, which currently holds the bloc’s rotating
presidency, with “punitive” trade restrictions. Lithuania’s
leaders, including Prime Minister Algirdas Butkevicius, say the
curbs are probably Russia’s way of protesting plans to
strengthen EU trade ties with Ukraine and other ex-Soviet
countries at a November summit in the Lithuanian capital.  The “restrictive measures” are necessary because of
“weakening” food quality and safety controls by Lithuanian
dairy producers and regulators, Russia’s consumer protection
watchdog said today on its website. Russia’s customs service
will impose the suspension, it said.  As per Russia’s World Trade Organization commitments, “any
restriction introduced by Russia based on sanitary grounds needs
to be justified by a demonstration of the risk at stake, and the
measure taken must be proportionate to the level of risk
identified,” European Commission spokesman  Frederic Vincent 
said today in an e-mailed reply to questions.  Shares of AB Rokiskio Suris and AB Pieno Zvaigzdes,
Lithuania’s two biggest dairy companies, fell 0.6 percent and 1
percent, respectively, in Vilnius today. AB Zemaitijos Pienas
fell 2.8 percent and AB Vilkyskiu Pienine closed down 3.2
percent on the Nasdaq OMX Vilnius exchange.  Sanitary Concerns  The commission “has confidence in the safety of Lithuanian
dairy products” and hasn’t been officially informed of the
nature of Russia’s sanitary concerns, Vincent said.  Lithuania’s Foreign Ministry also lacks official
information from Russia about the ban and won’t comment until it
gets that, spokeswoman Rasa Jakilaitiene said. Russia has
delayed Lithuanian cars at the Kaliningrad border since Aug. 30
and has subjected Lithuania-origin cargo to lengthy inspections
at borders since Sept. 11, according to the ministry’s website.  “Nobody knows exactly what indications Russian customs
have or what the reasons are for the sanctions,” Arturas Paulauskas, the head of the Lithuanian parliament’s National
Security and Defense Committee, said in an e-mailed statement.
“This is causing chaos in our economy,” he said, calling for
the government to react without further delay.  Russia also decided today to impose tighter controls on
imports of Lithuanian meat and fish, Russia’s state-run RIA news
service reported, citing an unidentified person with knowledge
of the situation.  Historical Echo  After becoming the first Soviet republic to declare
independence in 1990, Lithuania suffered more than a year of
trade blockades as Moscow tried to convince it not to leave the
 Soviet Union .  Russia took 19 percent of Lithuanian exports last year,
making it the largest trade destination, with almost 85 percent
in transit goods, the Baltic nation’s statistics office said.  Lithuanian companies exported 557 million litai ($219
million) of cheese and other dairy products to Russia in 2012,
according to data on the office’s website. That was about a
fifth of the value of all Lithuania-origin goods exported to
Russia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  