-- RWE Gains on Report EU Seeks Green-Tariff Shift: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-10-07T16:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/rwe-gains-on-report-eu-seeks-green-tariff-shift-frankfurt-mover.html
RWE AG (RWE) , the largest power producer in
 Germany , rose to a four-month high on a report that European
Union Commissioners Joaquin Almunia and Guenther Oettinger are
seeking changes to a guaranteed feed-in tariff for renewables.  RWE advanced 5.2 percent to 26.925 euros, the highest since
May 28, and the second-biggest gainer on the Stoxx Europe 600
index. The commissioners seek to replace a fixed-price tariff
with a premium to market prices,  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung 
said today. Almunia also aims to curb large-scale consumers’
exemptions from funding feed-in rates, it said.  “The EU Commission repeatedly made clear lately that it is
critical of the financial aid,” especially on the exemptions
for intensive industry and possible distortion of competition
caused by them, Guido Hoymann, an analyst at B. Metzler Seel
Sohn & Co. KGaA, said by phone from  Frankfurt . “Changes would
decelerate the expansion of renewables and drive the wholesale
price of power. The big utilities would benefit from that.”  EON SE, Germany’s largest utility, rose 4.1 percent. Exane
BNP Paribas upgraded both today, with RWE raised to neutral from
underperform and EON to outperform from neutral.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  seeks to alter the law to underpin
a 550 billion-euro ($747 billion) plan to shut atomic reactors
and boost renewables. While Merkel aims for a more market-based
approach to cut the plan’s costs, she hasn’t explained how.  The EEG clean-energy subsidy law aimed at raising the share
of renewables to 80 percent by 2050 from 23 percent now saddled
Germans with the third-highest power prices in the EU. Utility
groups VKU and BDEW, as well as chemical industry group VCI,
have called for an end to the EEG’s system of giving uncapped
above-market payments to developers of clean-energy plants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  