-- Sakhalin Energy Said to Seek Higher LNG Price From Kogas
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a ,   C h o u   H u i   H o n g   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-10-08T08:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/sakhalin-energy-said-to-seek-higher-lng-price-in-korea-contract.html
Sakhalin Energy, the operator of
Russia’s only liquefied natural gas plant, is seeking price
increases under a contract with  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  that’s up for
renegotiation next year, two people with direct knowledge of the
situation said.  OAO Gazprom-led Sakhalin Energy plans adjustments to the
oil-price linked contract after  Brent crude  prices jumped since
the accord was signed eight years ago, the people said. Kogas,
the world’s largest buyer of LNG, isn’t prepared to accept the
increase, a third person said. All three people asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are private and they aren’t
allowed to comment publicly.  Ivan Chernyakhovsky, a spokesman for Sakhalin Energy based
in Moscow, declined to comment when reached yesterday by phone.
Kogas didn’t answer two calls yesterday to the switchboard of
its headquarters in Gyeonggi,  South Korea .  Asian buyers are seeking ways to lower costs, including by
contracting LNG from  North America , where production has jumped
amid a surge in gas extracted from shale rock. A new wave of
supply from 2015 is expected to remove the current market
tightness as Australian projects start shipping the super-chilled fuel, followed by plants in North America and  East
Africa  after 2018, according to the  International Energy Agency .  The contract between Sakhalin and Kogas was first signed in
July 2005. Brent crude averaged $50.47 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in the first half of that year, compared
with $107.88 a barrel for the same period in 2013.  U.S. LNG  South Korea paid $3.91 per million British thermal units
for LNG from  Russia  in May, its cheapest supplies that month,
according to the Asian nation’s customs data. That compares with
$14.30 per million British thermal units paid by Northeast Asian
buyers for cargoes delivered in the next four to eight weeks,
according to a May 27 assessment by New York-based World Gas
Intelligence. The cost has since gained 10 percent to $15.80,
according to a Sept. 30 price from WGI.  Kogas is not keen to pay oil-linked prices as North
American LNG becomes available at prices linked to the U.S.
benchmark Henry Hub prices, one of the people said. The South
Korean importer will buy 3.5 million metric tons a year of LNG
from the U.S. Sabine Pass LNG project’s third production unit,
or train.  ‘Significant Compensation’  Sakhalin Energy, whose other partners are  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) ,  Mitsui & Co Ltd. (8031)  and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , supplies 1.5 million
tons of LNG to Kogas under a contract for the 20 years to 2028,
with an option for an additional 0.5 million tons a year,
according to the  International Group  of Liquefied Natural Gas
Importers, a lobby group in Paris. Russia began to export LNG
from the 9.55 million ton-a-year Sakhalin plant, located less
than 100 miles (160 kilometers) from the northern tip of  Japan ’s
Hokkaido, in February 2009.  Russia’s Energy Ministry is monitoring the talks between
Sakhalin Energy and Kogas as part of the governing committee of
Sakhalin-2, the LNG project being developed under a production
sharing agreement, the ministry said in an e-mailed response to
questions on Oct. 4. The ministry isn’t involved in the
negotiations, it said.  “It is unlikely that the LNG supply contract will be
terminated because the initiator of such a termination would
need to pay a significant compensation to its counter agent,”
the ministry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  