-- San Francisco Diesel Gains as Tesoro Performs Hydrocracker Work
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-10-07T22:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/san-francisco-diesel-gains-as-tesoro-performs-hydrocracker-work.html
Diesel in San Francisco advanced to
the highest level in two weeks as  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  performed repairs
on the hydrocracker at its Golden Eagle refinery in Northern
California.  The 170,000-barrel-a-day Golden Eagle plant began pulling
feed from the hydrocracker, which converts heavy hydrocarbons
into lighter fuels such as high-grade  fuel oil , on Oct. 2 for
maintenance that’s expected to last about six weeks, according
to a person familiar with the work who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  The discount for California-grade, or CARB, diesel in San
Francisco narrowed 1.25 cents versus ultra-low-sulfur diesel
futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange to 0.5 cent a
gallon, the smallest gap since Sept. 23, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg at 3:57 p.m. New York time.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel in  Portland ,  Oregon , a benchmark
for the U.S. Pacific Northwest jumped 4 cents to 5.5 cents a
gallon over futures, the biggest premium in more than four
months.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  was experiencing a diesel supply
shortage in parts of western Canada last week, Nicole Fisher, a
spokeswoman at the company’s headquarters in Calgary, said by e-mail Oct. 2. The company was “working to minimize the impact”
on customers by obtaining supply elsewhere, she said.  Suncor’s Fort McMurray oil-sands complex in Alberta
finished planned repairs on the vacuum unit at one of its two
upgraders, the company said in a statement on its  website  today.
Work on the No. 2 upgrader began Sept. 4, according to the
statement.  Suncor’s 140,000-barrel-a-day Edmonton refinery in Alberta
runs entirely on oil sands-based feedstocks, the company’s
website shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  