-- Sanofi CEO Viehbacher Sees Return to Growth This Quarter
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-10-07T16:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/sanofi-ceo-viehbacher-sees-return-to-growth-in-fourth-quarter.html
Sanofi (SAN)  Chief Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher said the French drugmaker will return to earnings
growth in the fourth quarter after the loss of patent protection
on nine drugs in the past three years eroded profit.  “We’ve just come through the deepest and most concentrated
patent cliffs in the industry,” Viehbacher said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today at the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation meeting in Bali,  Indonesia . “Our view is that
particularly in the 4Q, the company returns to growth for the
next period.” He didn’t say whether it was for profit or sales.  France ’s largest drugmaker cut its full-year earnings
forecast in August after generic competition and inventory
mismanagement in  Brazil . The Paris-based company has entered a
period where it doesn’t face expiration of protection on its
brand-name drugs and is also introducing new treatments for
growth, Viehbacher said today.  “One of the good things is that having gotten through the
patent cliffs, we have probably the lowest exposure to future”
ones, Viehbacher said.  Sanofi gained 0.1 percent to 74.74 euros at the close in
Paris. The stock, including reinvested dividends, has returned
8.2 percent  compared  with an 18 percent gain in the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceuticals Index.  Earnings Drop  Profit  excluding some costs fell 23 percent for the quarter
ended June 30, Sanofi reported Aug. 1. Analysts are predicting a
5 percent drop in third-quarter earnings, which the company will
report on Oct. 30, and a 21 percent increase for fourth-quarter
profit, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income has fallen in each of the four quarters through
June 30, while revenue has declined for two straight quarters.  Viehbacher is under pressure to deliver after failing to
meet previous forecasts, said  Michael Leuchten , an analyst at
Barclays Plc in  London .  “The question is credibility, and obviously whether he can
deliver on his targets,” Leuchten said in a telephone
interview. “In the past, he has not quite made guidance. He
promised to double his vaccines revenues and emerging markets
revenues, and that didn’t happen.”  Developing Markets  Sanofi, which gets about one-third of sales from emerging
markets, doesn’t plan to cut its forecasts for a second time
despite the impact of a strengthening euro against other
currencies, Viehbacher said.  Fundamentals remain “very strong” in emerging markets and
Sanofi is committed to investing in those regions, he said.  “You are going to have short-term turbulence,” he said.
However, “I think most people recognize the long-term potential
of  emerging markets .”  Potentially slowing economic growth in countries such as
China, Russia and Brazil prompted Eli Lilly & Co. to say Oct. 3
that meeting a full-year sales forecast would be challenging.  The euro is the best performer this year among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Among emerging-market currencies, the Indian
rupee has fallen about 13 percent against the euro this year,
the Brazilian real has declined about 10 percent, and the South
African rand has dropped about 17 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  