-- HSBC Sees Surge in Infrastructure Trade Led by Emerging Markets
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-10-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/hsbc-sees-surge-in-infrastructure-trade-led-by-emerging-markets.html
Infrastructure-related trade will
triple by 2030 when it will account for more than half of global
exchanges of goods, boosted by demand from  emerging markets  such
as China and  India ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  forecast.  Infrastructure-related trade, ranging from diggers to
cement to robotic arms for factories, is expected to grow at an
average of 9 percent a year until 2030 in the 23 countries
analyzed in the report, HSBC said. China will overtake the U.S.
as the largest importer of machinery required by business to
boost production by 2020. India will replace the U.S. as the
biggest importer of materials for infrastructure projects,
according to the forecasts.  “This is a story of a significant growth in the middle
class globally,” James Emmett, head of trade and receivables
finance at HSBC, said in an interview. “It is causing a
significant change in trading patterns around the world.”  As expanding emerging market economies boost more people’s
purchasing power, countries are looking to increase their
manufacturing capacity and develop roads, power networks and
sanitation systems. The Chinese leadership is trying to
transform the country, where per capita incomes are 88 percent
lower than in the U.S., into a consumer-led economy from an
exporter reliant on a managed currency.  A slowdown in the Chinese economy, which grew more than 10
percent a year for 20 years, means that companies from  China  and
other Asian countries will increasingly have to look further
afield for trade opportunities, according to the report.  Both Ends  “China ends up at both ends of the spectrum, both on the
import side but also being a significant player in the export
side associated with the goods for infrastructure,” Emmett
said. HSBC forecasts China will keep its position as the world’s
largest exporter of infrastructure-related goods.  Malaysia, Korea and  Vietnam  will increase their share of
infrastructure-related imports.  Brazil  will climb to 10th place
in the rankings of infrastructure goods exporters by 2030 from
15th currently, according to the report.  Exports from developed economies will expand slowly until
economic growth recovers in 2016, after which the U.S. and  Japan 
will grow faster than  Europe , averaging at about 5.5 percent a
year, the report said. The countries will need to continue
investing in infrastructure to maintain their competitive
advantage in supplying investment goods to the rest of the
world, Emmett said.  “Those countries that are currently termed to be emerging
cannot be assumed to keep deploying large labor forces. They
will re-engineer their industries to become far more productive
and efficient.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  