-- Sci-Fi Epic ‘Gravity’ Is Top With Record October Debut
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-10-07T22:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/sci-fi-epic-gravity-is-top-with-record-october-debut.html
“Gravity,” the  Warner Bros .
science-fiction epic starring  George Clooney  and  Sandra Bullock ,
set a record for an October opening in U.S. and Canadian
cinemas, collecting $55.8 million to land in first place.  “Runner Runner,” the online-poker movie from  Twentieth
Century Fox (FOX)  featuring  Justin Timberlake , took in $7.7 million to
place third,  Hollywood.com  said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Gravity,” about two astronauts cast adrift after a
satellite explodes, won stellar reviews for Bullock’s
performance and the direction of Alfonso Cuaron, who uses 3-D
effects to depict the sensation of being in space. A strong box-office run would be a boon for  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , which is
running a close second to  NBC Universal (CMCSA)  this year with gross
sales of $1.36 billion.  “‘Gravity’ did significantly better than expected,” said
 Paul Sweeney , director of research for Bloomberg Industries.
“It’s the combination of two A-list stars No. 1; No. 2, very
positive reviews; and No. 3, the expectation that there’s some
really exceptional production value.”  “Gravity” beats the record set by “Paranormal Activity
3” in October 2011, when it had sales for $52.6 million.  Like last year’s Oscar contender  “Life of Pi,” 
“Gravity” deals with the themes of isolation and desperation,
rendering the action with three-dimensional visuals.  Clooney, Bullock  The movie was made for $100 million, according to Box
Office Mojo, and was projected to take in $42 million this past
weekend, the estimate of Boxoffice.com, another researcher.  Warner Bros. was anticipating “Gravity” to debut at $35
million, a conservative estimate, researcher SNL Kagan said in a
note last week.  The film features Clooney as Matt Kowalski, a veteran
astronaut, and Bullock as Ryan Stone, a new-to-space medical
engineer, who find themselves cut off from Earth and floating
when debris from a satellite hits their shuttle and damages it.
The duo face one life-threatening challenge after another as
they try to reach a  space station  before their oxygen runs out.  Cuaron, who co-wrote the film with his son, was praised by
critics for conjuring the wonder of space as projected by
Stanley Kubrick’s “2001: A Space Odyssey” 45 years ago, as
well as the terror of it, shown in  Ridley Scott ’s “Alien.”  The film tethers “almost unfathomably complex techniques -
- both digital and analog -- to a simple narrative,”  wrote  A.O.
Scott, in the  New York  Times.  Poor Reviews  “Runner Runner” stars Timberlake as Richie Furst, a
Princeton graduate student who loses his tuition fees playing
online poker, suspects he was cheated and travels to Costa Rica
to confront the operator of the online gambling site, played by
 Ben Affleck .  Made for $30 million, according to Box Office Mojo, the
film faced poor reviews. Affleck recites his lines “as though
even he can’t follow the plot,” wrote  Greg Evans , a critic for
 Bloomberg News . “Runner Runner” was projected to collect $11
million by Boxoffice.com.  “Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs 2,” the animated
sequel from  Sony Corp. (6758) , dropped to second place with $21
million.  Featuring the voices of Bill Hader, Anna Faris and Will
Forte, the PG-rated movie has been well received in reviews for
the quality of its animation and its visual humor.  Revenue Falls  “Prisoners,” starring  Hugh Jackman  and  Jake Gyllenhaal ,
fell to fourth place from second last week with $5.7 million.
The suspense thriller from Warner Bros., about a father whose
daughter is kidnapped, has been buoyed by reviews praising the
force of the performances of its lead actors.  “Rush,”  Ron Howard ’s Formula 1 racing movie by Universal,
placed fifth with $4.5 million, after taking third last weekend.
Starring Chris Hemsworth, it recounts the 1970s Formula 1 racing
rivalry between the late James Hunt and Niki Lauda.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 13 percent to
$114.9 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Attendance year-to-date is down 2.8 percent, while revenue is up
less than 1 percent to $8.28 billion.  The following table has U.S. movie box-office figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on gross ticket sales for Oct. 4 to Oct. 6.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Livesey in  San Francisco  at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in Washington at +1-   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  