-- Serbia to Announce Budget Cuts as Fiscal Risk Grows
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-10-08T14:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/serbia-to-announce-budget-cuts-as-fiscal-risk-grows.html
Serbia’s government revealed a salvo
of measures to bring the public finance deficit and debt back
under control by 2017 after the head of the largest coalition
party warned the country was on the brink of insolvency.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s government said it would raise
taxes, push back the  retirement age  for women, crack down on the
shadow economy and cut subsidies to state-owned companies. The
plan follows Finance Minister Lazar Krstic’s Oct. 2 pledge to
save 1.6 billion euros ($2.2 billion) over three years.  “Without these measures, we could have survived over the
next six, nine or 12 months, maybe two years,” Krstic told a
news conference in Belgrade. “But we have decided to take
measures while we still have liquidity, to bring things to
order. Without those measures we would have gone bankrupt.”  The Balkan European Union aspirant wants to reassure
investors that it can rein in a fiscal deficit the government
estimates may reach 6.5 percent of annual output this year. It
is also trying to secure financing from the  International
Monetary Fund , which balked at talks in May when it said
Belgrade had fallen short of its budget commitments.  Krstic’s statements sent bond yields lower, unraveling a
jump yesterday triggered after Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic, who leads the poll-leading Progressive Party, said the
country is “virtually on the verge of bankruptcy.”  ‘Structural Reforms’  Yields on Serbian 10-year Eurobonds maturing in 2021 fell
20 basis points, or 0.2 percentage point, to 6.622 percent by
2:08 p.m. in Belgrade. The dinar slid 0.04 percent on the day to
trade at 114.3128 to the euro, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Krstic said Serbia will raise taxes on public servants
making 60,000 dinars ($712) or more a month, affecting as many
as 200,000 of almost 700,000 public workers, Krstic said. The
government will raise the  sales tax  on food and other staples to
10 percent from 8 percent and increase the retirement age for
women to 63 by 2020, from 60.  An overhaul of state-owned companies will save 300 million
euros to 400 million euros by 2017, while the crackdown on the
gray economy should save 150 million euros a year, Krstic said.  The plan is “good” and savings will total 1.5 percent of
gross domestic product in lower spending in 2014, Milojko Arsic,
a former central bank vice governor and an economic adviser to
former Finance Minister  Diana Dragutinovic , said by phone.  The government may still “need new measures in 2014 to
save additional 1 percent of GDP,” he said.  Deficit Reduction  Along with an estimated 200 million euros a year from the
value-added-tax increase, the measures should help cut the
budget gap to 2 percent to 3 percent of GDP by 2016 or 2017,
Krstic said. Public debt will stabilize at around 75 percent of
GDP “in three to four years,” compared with a 45 percent of
GDP cap set under fiscal rules.  “Our commitment is vital also for the sake of creditors,”
Krstic said. “We are talking about fiscal consolidation of
around 4.5 percent to 5 percent of GDP through 2017 which is
more than 1.5 billion euros in savings over the next four
years.”  Krstic stopped short of announcing budget gap targets,
possibly signaling a plan to adjust deficit calculations to
International Monetary Fund methodology, Arsic said.  Borrowing Options  The cabinet is considering borrowing options to keep
financing costs under control including a $1 billion Eurobond,
domestic borrowing or a loan from the  United Arab Emirates ,
Krstic said last week.  “There will be no cheap and easy borrowing,” Krstic said.
“Borrowing costs have gone up around two percentage points”
and if Serbia was to borrow at current market prices, “it would
expand our total interest payments by around 400 million
euros,” he said.  With cash reserves of $1.3 billion as of Sept. 30, “Serbia
will comfortably meet its forthcoming obligations,” Krstic said
in a phone interview yesterday.  Arsic, who is also chief macroeconomist at the Foundation
for Advancement of Economics, said that number also included
cash belonging to local governments, schools, hospitals and
other institutions financed by the state, on top of central
government’s “own reserves” that he said were currently
“roughly around 300 million euros.”  IMF Review  The IMF, which completed a week-long review of  Serbia ’s
fiscal policies in Belgrade, cut its 2013 growth outlook to 1.5
percent, from 2 percent, and said the country’s economic
situation “remains fragile.”  The Washington-based lender said the government’s general
public finance deficit should reach about 7.5% of GDP in 2013
and the government’s fiscal plan was “appropriate.”  “Full implementation of these measures starting from 2014
would be an important step in the right direction and a signal
of the authorities’ resolve to tackle the economic challenges,”
the IMF said in an e-mailed statement.  Some of the measures may face political opposition among a
government that has hesitated to cut public wages and change the
country’s retirement system, according to Otilia Dhand, an
economist at Teneo Intelligence, a London-based political risk
evaluator.  “Widespread protests and systemic resistance present a
risk to the implementation of the intended reform,” Dhand wrote
in an e-mail yesterday.  Sentiment Hit  Speaking alongside Krstic, Prime Minister Dacic said the
measures had “clear political backing” from the cabinet. The
aim is to “push Serbia forward” toward economic and financial
consolidation, he said.  The biggest Serbian trade union said today the package
failed to include measures for economic recovery and that lower
take-home wages would lead “to weaker economic activity among
small and medium enterprises, which are supposed to be the
engines of future growth.”  “This can work for a time but at the expense of a big hit
to household and corporate sentiment which in turn feeds into
worse growth numbers for some time and then ultimately the risk
of protests and political difficulties,” Peter Attard Montalto,
a London-based emerging-markets economist at Nomura
International Plc, said in a note on Serbia today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  