-- Gunmen Kill One in Renewed Attacks on Egypt Security Forces
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A h m e d   E l - S a y e d
-- 2013-10-08T10:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/sinai-suicide-bomb-lifts-toll-in-egypt-s-latest-wave-of-violence.html
Gunmen renewed attacks on  Egypt ’s
security forces with a fatal shooting in the city of Port Said,
a day after a suicide bomber and other militants killed 10
policemen and soldiers in the nation’s latest spasm of violence.  The targeting of security personnel and installations
followed the deaths of at least 55 people on Oct. 6 during
rallies by Muslim Brotherhood supporters to protest the
overthrow of President Mohamed Mursi by the army in July, in
what was some of the worst violence in weeks.  The bloodshed has laid bare the spiraling tensions in Egypt
as the July 3 ouster of Mursi, the country’s first freely
elected civilian president, exposed fault lines between the
government and secularists on the one hand, and Islamists who
saw themselves pushed from power after just a year on the other.  “What we are witnessing is part of a very long process of
confrontation that will continue to be violent until a decisive
event happens,” either a reconciliation or a harsher military
crackdown, said Ziad Akl, a senior researcher at the Ahram
Center for Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo.  Since the military’s intervention, the Islamist group has
been the target of the heaviest crackdown in decades, with its
leaders detained and hundreds of supporters killed and arrested
by security forces.  Assailants on a motorbike opened fire at customs police in
Port Said today, killing one man and wounding another, according
to the state-run Middle East News Agency.  Economy Bleeds  Yesterday, a suicide bomber wearing police uniform
detonated a car laden with explosives inside a security base at
El-Tour in southern Sinai, said Mohamed Abdel-Salam, head of the
region’s justice department. Four policemen were killed, and
more than 60 people injured, according to Health Ministry
officials. Near Ismailiya, six soldiers were killed by gunmen.  The bloodshed is undermining efforts to revive Egypt’s
battered economy, leaving the most populous Arab country largely
dependent on aid from Gulf states to stem a decline in  foreign
reserves . Growth has been near a two-decade low since the
uprising against  Hosni Mubarak  in early 2011.  The Egyptian Exchange’s benchmark EGX30 index fell 0.2
percent, to 5,755.33, at 12:24 p.m. in Cairo.  The military has been waging a battle against what it
describes as “terrorists” in Sinai, as officials express
concerns that the violence there could breed an insurgency in
other parts of the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  