-- Singapore Seen Keeping Currency Appreciation on Inflation
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-10-08T02:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/singapore-seen-keeping-currency-appreciation-on-inflation-risks.html
The Monetary Authority of Singapore
will probably refrain from easing monetary policy this month as
taming inflation takes priority over reviving economic growth.  The central bank, which uses the  exchange rate  rather than
borrowing costs as its main policy tool, will keep the current
stance of a “modest and gradual” appreciation in the  Singapore
dollar  and refrain from adjusting the trading band on Oct. 14,
according to 19 of 21 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The
economy probably contracted last quarter, another survey showed.  Singapore is grappling with persistent price risks even as
 Asia ’s growth outlook falters with the  World Bank  and  Asian
Development Bank  cutting economic forecasts this month. The
island has resisted any monetary easing since October 2011 as a
tight labor market and persistent demand for homes spurs
inflation risks.  “ Core inflation  is still very much on the radar and looks
likely to trend higher,” said  Alvin Liew , a Singapore-based
economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd., referring to price gains
excluding private transport and accommodation costs. “Growth
isn’t fantastic, but it is still within the expected range of
the government’s forecast.”  Gross domestic product  fell an annualized 4.1 percent in
the three months ended Sept. 30 from the previous quarter,
according to the median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey before a report due the same day as the monetary policy
statement. The $275 billion economy expanded 3.8 percent from a
year earlier, according to the  median  of 15 estimates. Prime
Minister Lee Hsien Loong forecasts economic growth of 2.5
percent to 3.5 percent this year.  Currency Climbs  The Singapore dollar has risen 2.3 percent in the past
three months against the  U.S. dollar , the biggest gainer among
 Southeast Asia ’s major economies. The increase compares with a
more-than-13 percent drop in the rupiah and a 0.2 percent gain
in the  Thai baht . The currency traded at S$1.2498 against its
U.S. counterpart as of 10:41 a.m. local time today.  The island nation’s current-account surplus shielded it in
recent months as speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will start
scaling back stimulus spurred a rout in other Asian currencies.
The Singapore dollar will probably be at S$1.255 by Dec. 31 and
S$1.26 by mid-2014, according to the median estimate in the
survey for this month’s policy decision.  The MAS adjusts the Singapore dollar’s pace of appreciation
or depreciation against an undisclosed trade-weighted basket of
currencies by changing the slope, width and center of the band.
A flatter slope allows slower gains or depreciation over time.  Growth Catalyst  Most analysts in the Bloomberg survey predict the authority
will keep the slope, width and center of the trading band
unchanged at the twice-yearly policy review next week.  A minority predict some easing in policy. ING Groep NV said
the central bank may slow gains in the local currency by
reducing the band’s slope.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  said
the central bank may shift to a zero slope.  “Growth momentum isn’t picking up as much as the central
bank expected in the last meeting, whereas inflation is nowhere
to be seen,” said Andy Ji, a Singapore-based currency
strategist at CBA. “Why not just give growth a little bit of a
catalyst?”  Singapore’s non-oil domestic exports fell for a seventh
straight month in August from a year earlier. The World Bank
yesterday lowered its forecasts for  East Asia ’s developing
economies this year and next, led by weaker growth estimates for
 China , the region’s biggest economy.  Inflation Quickens  At the same time, Singapore’s inflation accelerated to a
five-month high of 2 percent in August on food and housing,
after easing from more than 5 percent in mid-2012. Domestic cost
pressures are expected to persist “amid continuing tightness in
the labor market,” according to a central bank and trade
ministry statement last month.  “Inflation, while moderating to more comfortable levels,
is still not at the stage where the MAS will want to comfortably
loosen policy,” said  Vishnu Varathan , a senior economist at
Mizuho Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “The status quo seems to be the
most comfortable place for them to be.”  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  India ’s central bank
yesterday rolled back further an emergency step taken to shore
up its currency as the rupee’s continued stabilization allowed
it to relax liquidity for the nation’s banks.  Indonesia ’s
central bank will probably keep its key interest rate unchanged
today, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  In  Europe , a U.K. house-price index rose to the highest in
more than a decade last month while  Germany  is due to release
trade data for August today. A report yesterday showed U.S.
consumer borrowing rose more than projected in August as
Americans took out more loans for motor vehicle purchases and
education.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  