-- SocGen to Buy VTB’s 10% Stake in Rosbank by Swapping Assets
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-10-07T11:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/socgen-to-buy-vtb-s-10-stake-in-rosbank-by-swapping-assets.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  France ’s second-largest bank by market value, agreed to buy VTB Group’s 10
percent stake in OAO Rosbank by swapping unspecified holdings in
Russian equities, loans and real-estate.  “It is good that the two sides have finally come to an
agreement because VTB will gain more liquid assets in
exchange,” Andrey Klapko, an analyst at OAO Gazprombank, said
by phone today from Moscow. VTB,  Russia ’s second-largest lender,
said in May that it was holding talks with  Societe Generale  to
sell its minority stake in Rosbank.  For VTB’s stake in Rosbank, Societe Generale agreed to
exchange some Moscow-listed equities, loans and real-estate
assets, the banks said in separate e-mailed statements today.
The banks didn’t provide the financial terms of the deal.  Through the transaction, Societe Generale’s stake in
 Rosbank (ROSB)  will rise to 92 percent, resulting in “limited impact”
on the French bank’s core Tier 1 capital and a “positive
financial impact” on Rosbank, the Paris-based bank said. VTB
won’t hold any shares in Rosbank after the sale, which is
expected to close in the fourth quarter, the Russian lender
said.  VTB may get Rosbank’s stake in the Moscow Exchange as part
of the deal, Prime news service reported in June, citing VTB’s
Chief Executive Officer Andrey Kostin. A VTB spokesman today
declined to comment when asked whether the holding in the Moscow
Exchange is part of the transaction with Societe Generale.  Rosbank was unchanged at 56 rubles ($1.74) by 3:12 p.m. in
Moscow trading, while VTB fell 1.3 percent. Societe Generale
declined 0.6 percent in Paris.  Profit Rises  Societe Generale’s profit from Russia rose in the first
half as it kept cutting costs and jobs at Rosbank two years
after merging it with its other Russian branch network, BSGV.
The French company is among foreign lenders keeping its
consumer-banking operations in Russia after London-based
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  abandoned theirs.  Societe Generale made a 65 million-euro ($88 million)
first-half profit from Russia, up from 4 million euros a year
earlier, the bank said in August. A plan for staff reductions at
Rosbank’s Moscow headquarters was completed by the end of July,
it said.  In June, Societe Generale pledged to keep building its
Russian business as it sought to move beyond the May arrest of
Rosbank’s former CEO on bribery charges. Societe Generale has
said it’s aiming for a return on equity, a measure of
profitability, of more than 15 percent in Russia by 2015.  VTB bought a stake in Rosbank from billionaire  Vladimir Potanin ’s Interros Holding in December 2010. Interros remains a
shareholder.  VTB sold the remainder of its holding in Russian lender
Otkritie Financial Corp. in April as part of its program to
dispose of minority stakes in financial industry assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 