-- Solvay to Buy Chemlogics for $1.3 Billion for Oil Segment
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-10-07T10:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/solvay-to-buy-chemlogics-for-1-35-billion-to-add-oil-chemicals.html
Solvay SA (SOLB)  agreed to buy U.S. producer
Chemlogics for $1.3 billion in cash to expand its offering of
chemicals for the oil and gas industry.  The Belgian company is paying 10.7 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the business,
which generated about $500 million in annual sales, Solvay said
today in a statement. The Brussels-based chemical manufacturer
will sell about 1 billion euros ($1.35 billion) in hybrid bonds
to help support finances.  The purchase is part of Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pierre Clamadieu’s transformation of Solvay as he expands its offering
of more profitable materials. Profit from Chemlogics’s products,
used to ease friction in drilling, is growing at more than 10
percent, said Solvay, which already makes some ingredients used
in this area. That contrasts with a slowdown in sales at
polyvinyl chloride operations that Clamadieu is seeking to exit
via a joint venture with Ineos Group Holdings.  “This is a good fit in terms of clients as for the first
time they will be getting feedback” from customers, said Filip De Pauw, an analyst at ING Bank. “There’s not much I can say
about the price at this point as they haven’t disclosed
synergies.”  Chemlogics Sites  The price Solvay is paying will be 8.7 times Chemlogics
earnings, once an expected tax benefit is taken into account,
the Belgian company said. Paso Robles, California-based
Chemlogics generates about $125 million in Ebitda, with three
factories, eight formulation sites and six research hubs.  Solvay  rose  as much as 2.8 percent and was trading up 2
percent at 109.60 euros as of 12:04 p.m. in Brussels. That
pushed the stock to a 0.2 percent gain this year.  Oil and gas additives are a business hotspot for the $4
trillion  chemical industry , with expansion in shale extraction
in the U.S. attracting European players including BASF SE and
Evonik Industries AG. Swiss producer  Clariant SA (CLN)  and  Kemira Oyj (KRA1V) 
of  Finland  have already made purchases to expand in the segment.  Chemlogics, part-owned by One Equity Partners LLC, was
founded in 2002. It provides friction reducers for drill heads
as well as cementing materials that complement Solvay’s Novecare
range of surfactants and natural polymers.  New Customers  Solvay’s client base will be broadened from large customers
such as Halliburton Co. to a plethora of niche oilfield-services
companies such as Pumpco Energy Services Inc.  The oil and gas production-chemical market is growing by at
least 6 percent a year on average, Clamadieu said on a
conference call. Stricter environmental regulations are boosting
demand for chemicals that can treat the water used in the
process.  For Chemlogics CEO Bill Frost, who will retain an advisory
role following the acquisition, it’s a way to pass on the
company with management largely intact.  “This acquisition accelerates Solvay’s ongoing
transformation,” Clamadieu said. The purchase will give the
company a “significant” share of the $8 billion oil and gas
exploration and production market and savings as the business is
merged into existing operations, Solvay said, without giving
figures.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised Solvay on the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  