-- Somalia’s Federal Government Says Regional Oil Permits Invalid
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-10-07T17:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/somalia-s-federal-government-says-regional-oil-permits-invalid.html
Somalia ’s federal government, seeking
to reassert control over the war-ravaged country, said oil
exploration licenses issued by regional governments in the
Somaliland and Puntland regions of country are invalid.  Genel Energy Plc (GENL) ,  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI)  and Ophir Energy have
won licenses to search in Somalia’s semi-autonomous regions,
although work has been slowed down by security concerns as the
nation has to fight al-Qaeda-linked Al-Shabaab militia.  “Any contract that was given or awarded by a federal
member state is not valid,” National Resources Minister
Abdirizak Omar Mohamed said today at a conference in  London .
Companies holding those licenses “should start negotiations
with the federal government.”  Mohamed also urged  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and other companies that stopped work at the start of the civil
war in 1991 to return to Somalia. The nation plans to start
seismic exploration next year and hold a tender for licenses
after the survey is completed.  Although it has no proved reserves, drillers are betting
Somalia has geology similar to Yemen across the  Gulf of Aden ,
which split from  Africa  about 17 million years ago. The Middle
East country holds 2.7 billion barrels of proved oil reserves.  Shell “has engaged with the government of Somalia -- these
discussions are of a preliminary and exploratory nature,” Julia
Dudley, a London-based spokesman at the company, said by e-mail.
Shell “expressed interest in appraising opportunities for
future projects in Somalia.”  Federal Control  Somalia’s government is working on the new petroleum
legislation, including a change to the constitution regarding
natural resource ownership, Mohamed said. The nation’s
parliament would have to ratify the proposals, which would
enforce the federal government’s authority.  “Our legal contracts with” Puntland “were subsequently
acknowledged and recognized by the Somalia transitional federal
government,” Alex Budden, a vice president at Africa Oil, said
in an interview in London.  The Canadian company last year drilled the nation’s first
oil well in at least 20 years. It didn’t find oil or gas
reserves.  “We are not pushing forward exploration activities,” he
said. “We want to see how this situation resolves. We are still
able to meet our legal commitments.”  Puntland suspended cooperation with the Somalia federal
government, partly because of the central authority’s failure to
share resources, it said in August.  Civil War  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Chevron Corp. and other
companies also had interests in Somalia prior to the civil war.
All left the nation because of security concerns. Shell is
monitoring “the security and operating environment in and
surrounding Somalia,” Dudley said.  “We will honour those rights, but we also like to change
the terms of their contracts” to production sharing agreements
from concessions, Mohamed said. “The country is becoming safer
now. We want them to come and explore.”  The history of pirate attacks on key shipping routes near
Somalia may require increased security for offshore exploration.
Still, there were no “successful pirate attack or hijackings”
this year, Mohamed said.  Soma Oil & Gas, a London-based company started this year,
plans to invest about $20 million in the seismic research off
Somalia, Chief Executive Officer Robert Sheppard said in London.
The company is seeking bids from survey contractors and plans to
start the work early next year.  “The geologic structure offshore is pretty compelling,”
he said. “We are already working with the government and other
people to make sure that we have sufficient security for the
seismic operations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  