-- Stanford Suits Questioned in High Court Securities Clash
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-10-07T19:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/stanford-suits-questioned-in-high-court-securities-clash.html
The U.S. Supreme Court debated the
reach of the federal securities laws, questioning whether
investors can sue law firms and outside companies for their
alleged roles in R. Allen Stanford’s $7 billion  Ponzi scheme .  In an hour-long session sprinkled with questions about home
loans and prenuptial agreements, the nine justices gave no clear
indication how they will rule, directing skeptical questions at
both sides.  The defendants to the suits are in the unusual position of
arguing alongside the Securities and Exchange Commission and
Obama administration. They are seeking a broad application of
federal securities law -- an interpretation that would thwart
the Stanford suits from going forward under state law.  The case involves “classic  securities fraud ,” putting it
under federal jurisdiction, said Elaine Goldenberg, a Justice
Department lawyer.  The case tests a 1998 U.S. law enacted to prevent investors
from using state courts to circumvent federal limits on class-action securities claims. Federal law prohibits punitive damages
and requires higher levels of proof than many state laws. It
also bars the type of “aiding and abetting” suits the
investors are seeking to press in the Stanford cases.  Uniform Standards  Under the 1998 law, known as the U.S. Securities Litigation
Uniform Standards Act or SLUSA, investors can’t sue under state
law if the case is based on a misrepresentation made “in
connection with the purchase or sale of a covered security.”  Because the phrase “in connection with” also governs the
SEC’s jurisdiction in a separate statute, a ruling barring the
Stanford suits might simultaneously bolster the commission’s
powers.  The defendants in the Stanford case include units of  Willis
Group Holdings Plc (WSH) , a London-based insurance broker. They are
accused of writing letters that gave the investors reason to
believe the certificates of deposit they bought were backed by
safe, liquid investments. The investors sued the units along
with the administrator of a trust Stanford used in his scheme.  Investors are also suing two law firms, Proskauer Rose LLP
and Chadbourne & Parke LLP, for allegedly lying to the SEC and
helping Stanford evade regulatory oversight. The defendants deny
wrongdoing.  Not ‘Covered’  The CDs, issued by Stanford’s bank and sold by his
securities firm, don’t qualify as “covered” under the federal
SLUSA law. That means the CDs by themselves don’t give the
defendants the right to have the state-law case dismissed.  “Nobody contends that we bought anything other than non-covered assets,” the investors’ lawyer,  Tom Goldstein , argued
today.  The law firms and Willis units argue that SLUSA applies
because the Stanford Financial Group Co. reneged on promises to
use proceeds from the investments to buy securities that are
covered. “Covered” securities include publicly traded stocks
and bonds.  Justice  Antonin Scalia  indicated he read the statutory
language -- “in connection with the purchase or sale of a
covered security” -- as letting the Stanford suits go forward.  “There has been no purchase or sale here,” he said. “It
can’t be in connection with a purchase or sale that has never
occurred.”  ‘In Connection’  Justice  Samuel Alito  disagreed, suggesting he read the “in
connection with” phrase broadly.  “It doesn’t say a misrepresentation ‘about’ the covered
security,” Alito said. “It says a misrepresentation ‘in
connection with.’”  Several justices said they were concerned that the position
urged by the Obama administration and the defendants would
expand the federal securities laws to a number of new areas.
Chief Justice  John Roberts  asked whether a person would be
violating the securities law by lying about stock ownership on a
mortgage application.  Justice Elena Kagan asked a similar question about someone
who agreed in a prenuptial agreement to sell Google stock in
order to buy a home.  “Is that covered by the securities law now?” she asked
 Paul Clement , the lawyer for the defendants.  Clement said the court didn’t need to go that far to rule
in favor of his clients, saying the promise to buy covered
securities was central to the Stanford fraud.  “The security of the underlying investments was the most
important factor” in prompting the investors to buy the CDs, he
said.  ‘Tangentially Related’  A New Orleans-based federal appeals court said the alleged
misrepresentations were “only tangentially related” to any
covered security. The ruling let investors’ suits filed under
Louisiana and Texas state law go forward, reversing a trial
judge who had thrown out the claims.  A federal jury convicted Stanford in March 2012 on 13
charges brought in connection with his Ponzi scheme, including
four counts of  wire fraud  and five of mail fraud. He was
sentenced in June to 110 years in prison.  Prosecutors said Stanford wasted investors’ money on
failing businesses, yachts and cricket tournaments and secretly
borrowed as much as $2 billion from his bank. In a Ponzi scheme,
money from the newest investors is used to fund the returns that
have been promised to previous investors.  The Supreme Court cases are Chadbourne & Park v. Troice,
12-79; Willis v. Troice, 12-86; and  Proskauer Rose  v. Troice,
12-88.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  