-- Swaps Live On as Battery Park Retires Auction Debt: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-10-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/swaps-live-on-as-battery-park-retires-auction-debt-muni-credit.html
The agency that runs Battery Park
City, the Manhattan neighborhood that houses  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ’s headquarters, is borrowing almost $1 billion in part to
refinance auction-rate debt, five years after the $330 billion
market collapsed.  As much as $612.5 million of next week’s bond sale will go
toward retiring the securities, issued a decade ago. Weekly
auctions to reset interest rates on the bonds have failed since
the financial crisis in 2008, and the authority says the deal
will allow it to lower borrowing costs.  The savings will bolster the agency as bets mount that an
expanding U.S. economy will eventually lift interest rates.
Battery Park City also faces growing competition for  office
space , including from the nearby  World Trade Center site  under
development.  Fitch Ratings  cited the alternatives as a risk when
it cut the outlook on the authority’s AAA grade to negative this
month.  “We’ve been enjoying a very low cost of capital,” said
Matthew Monahan, a spokesman for the authority, which manages a
92-acre (37-hectare) parcel in  Lower Manhattan  that is home to
17,000 people. “There’s concern going into the future that
interest rates might rise.”  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market have joined
other fixed-income buyers in gauging when the  Federal Reserve 
will lift its benchmark interest rate from near zero, where it’s
been since 2008. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last month
surprised financial markets by maintaining the bank’s pace of
bond buying, fueling the biggest muni rally since 2011.  Swaps Remain  Battery Park City will keep  interest-rate swaps  that were
part of its 2003 deal and run through 2033, Monahan said. The
agency, established in 1968, was among dozens of localities and
school districts that bought the unregulated derivatives from
Wall Street banks.  The contracts were supposed to reduce borrowing costs on
debt with variable rates and hedge against rising rates. Issuers
nationwide, including Detroit’s utilities and  Louisiana , have
paid at least $4 billion to banks to end the agreements after
interest rates fell instead.  Yields are set to rise in the next year, according to
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, including the London interbank
offered rate, the benchmark for Battery Park City’s auction- and
variable-rate debt. Three-month Libor may increase to 0.36
percent in a year from 0.24 percent now, according to the median
forecast of 41 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Cost Cut  Libor, a measure of what banks charge to borrow from each
other, is the benchmark for more than $300 trillion of
securities from mortgages to  student loans .  The authority has had to pay double the Libor rate for its
auction-rate debt, while its new obligations would cost a
premium over one-month Libor, which is now about 0.17 percent,
Monahan said. The agency didn’t specify the amount of the
premium.  The auction-rate market was worth $330 billion before it
collapsed during the credit crisis as demand faltered and
dealers stopped stepping in as buyers of last resort. Investors
who held the debt were unable to sell. About $32 billion of muni
auction-rate debt remains, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A portion of the agency’s auction-rate debt maturing in
November 2039 carried an  interest rate  of about 3 percent in
January 2008, Bloomberg data show. That swelled to 5.5 percent
by the following month as the auctions began to fail.  Hedge Plan  “We roughly will have the same percentage of variable to
fixed rate after the refunding,” Monahan said. “We’re hedging
-- we have assets that in a rising interest-rate environment
will mitigate increases in variable-rate debt-service costs.”  The authority was created by the state legislature to
balance commercial, residential, retail and park space in the
planned community built on landfill. It is borrowing as its
commercial core, the World Financial Center, is undergoing a
makeover.  Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO)  is spending $250 million
to lure tenants to the 14-acre complex on the  Hudson River .
About 2.7 million square feet is vacant after  Bank of America
Corp. ’s lease expired last month, Fitch said.  The developer is  transforming  the former home of Merrill
Lynch into a destination for technology and media companies,
even as 8.7 million square feet of office space opens up at the
World Trade Center site. Brookfield has signed up retailers such
as  Michael Kors , and eateries including Umami Burger and Parm.  ‘Good Mix’  Fitch said the diversification away from financial services
reinforced the agency’s AAA grade. Tenants in the area include
American Express, Oppenheimer & Co. and Royal Bank of Canada,
the New York-based ratings company said. The Goldman Sachs Tower
is at 200 West Street.  “It’s very valuable real-estate, and now it’s a good mix
of real-estate,” said Howard Cure, director of muni research in
 New York  at Evercore Wealth Management, which oversees $4.7
billion, including the authority’s debt.  A risk of living in the area is potential flooding, as seen
a year ago during  Hurricane Sandy , when residents were evacuated
amid the  storm surge .  Kathy Bramlage, a director at HighTower Advisors’ Treasury
Partners Unit in New York, said she won’t buy the Battery Park
bonds. She said yields will be too low and she expects interest
rates to rise. Benchmark 10-year munis yield about 2.71 percent,
close to the lowest since June.  “A triple-A Battery Park, who’s going to get excited about
it?” Bramlage said.  Spreads Narrow  Other investors have been purchasing. Some Battery Park
City Build America Bonds callable in November 2019 were valued
at a yield 2.89 percentage points more than Treasuries last
week, BVAL data show. That was the smallest penalty since July.  The variable-rate debt will be sold privately to three
banks, said Monahan, who declined to name them. About $373
million of fixed-rate bonds will be offered publicly as soon as
Oct. 15, Fitch said.  Bramlage said demand may come from New York tax-exempt
mutual funds which will be able to diversify their porfolios
with an issuer that doesn’t come to market frequently. It will
be the authority’s first deal since 2009, Bloomberg data show.  She said the offer may also get interest from individual
investors who will focus on the top ratings.  Proceeds will refund debt, help build a bridge and restore
a pier and the Esplanade along the Hudson River.  “It’s always been fairly convenient for people to work
there, and it’s becoming more desirable residentially,” Cure
said. “This will get a lot of attention. I would expect them to
do well.”  Market Week  Issuers from  New Jersey  to  California  are set to issue $4.7
billion of long-term debt this week, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s up from $3.7 billion last week, the data show.  Top-rated 10-year muni  yields  are close to the lowest since
June, Bloomberg data show. The interest rate compares with  2.64
percent (USGG10YR)  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 103 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  