-- Swiss FX Probe, Mizuho Apology, FCA Fines, Reg NMS: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-10-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/swiss-fx-probe-mizuho-apology-fca-fines-reg-nms-compliance.html
Swiss authorities said they’re
investigating several banks for allegedly colluding to
manipulate the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign exchange market.  The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority “is
coordinating closely with authorities in other countries as
multiple banks around the world are potentially implicated,” it
said in a statement Oct. 4. Separately, the competition
commission said it opened a preliminary probe on Sept. 30 after
receiving allegations of collusion among banks to manipulate
some foreign-exchange rates.  The probes come after Bloomberg News reported in June that
dealers at banks pooled information through instant messages and
used client orders to move benchmark currency rates. Britain’s
Financial Conduct Authority said that month it was reviewing the
allegations. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission has
also been reviewing potential violations of the law with regards
to foreign currency markets, according to a person familiar with
the matter who asked not to be identified.  European regulators are reviewing allegations of collusion
in crude oil and biofuels markets, while the CFTC and FCA are
also probing the potential manipulation of ISDAfix, a benchmark
for  interest-rate swaps .  In the Oct. 4 statement, Finma didn’t identify which firms
it’s investigating or give details of the scope of its probe,
saying it would decide at a later date on what further action to
take. Vinzenz Mathys, a spokesman for Bern-based Finma, declined
to comment further.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Mizuho Takes Steps to Improve Compliance After Crime-Group Loans  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ’s banking unit set up an
internal committee and will assemble a panel of outside experts
to improve compliance after it failed to act on loans made to
crime groups.  Deputy President Toshitsugu Okabe told reporters of the
measures after bowing in apology at a news conference in  Tokyo 
Oct. 4. It was the first briefing by  Japan ’s third-biggest bank
by market value since the Financial Services Agency ordered the
lending unit to improve business a week ago.  Mizuho Bank Ltd. failed to take steps to end loans to
“anti-social” groups for more than two years after becoming
aware of them, the FSA said Sept. 27. Okabe said Oct. 4 that at
least four senior executives responsible for compliance at the
time knew of the transactions and didn’t inform superiors.  Okabe replaced Masakane Koike as head of compliance at the
holding company on Sept. 30, the Tokyo-based bank said this
week.  The company must submit a report to the FSA by Oct. 28.  London Whale Lifts U.K. Regulator to Highest Fines in a Decade  The U.K. finance regulator recorded its largest month of
fines in more than a decade in September, buoyed by a 137.6
million-pound ($221.2 million) penalty against  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  over the London Whale debacle.  Industry fines totaled 169.5 million pounds last month and
brought total penalties from the Financial Conduct Authority in
2013 to 339.5 million pounds, according to statistics published
Oct. 4 by Wolters Kluwer NV. The year-to-date total is larger
than any other full year since 2002.  The regulator fined JPMorgan as part of a probe into losses
exceeding $6.2 billion on a derivatives position built by a
trader who came to be known as the London Whale because his bets
were so large. The past year has also seen the regulator punish
banks embroiled in the scandal over rigging of the London
Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor.  Courts  Jefferies Ordered to Pay Ex-Employee’s Costs in Fraud Case  Jefferies & Co. was ordered to pay expenses including legal
fees of Jesse C. Litvak, a former managing director accused of
defrauding customers on trades of mortgage-backed securities.  Litvak, who has pleaded not guilty, was indicted in January
on charges of securities fraud, fraud connected to the Troubled
Asset Relief Program and making false statements to the federal
government. Alleged victims include investment funds, among them
six established by the U.S. Treasury Department in 2009 in
response to the financial crisis.  Litvak filed a petition in New York State Supreme Court in
Manhattan Oct. 3 seeking to confirm an award made by Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority arbitrators last month. Richard
Khaleel, a spokesman for New York-based Jefferies LLC, declined
to comment on the arbitration award.  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) 
acquired the investment bank earlier this year.  Litvak says he is legally entitled to have Jefferies pay
his legal costs for the case. He has accused the government of
pressuring the company to cut off funding, denying him rights to
counsel and due process, according to court filings.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Francis at a hearing last
month said the dispute is between Litvak and his former employer
and that the government did nothing to pressure Jefferies.  Litvak was hired by Jefferies in April 2008 and was fired
on Dec. 21, 2011, according to the indictment. He has moved for
dismissal of the charges and is currently free on a $1 million
bond. A trial is scheduled for February.  The case is U.S. v. Litvak, 13-cr-00019, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  Interviews/Speeches  Rule That Fragmented Trading Worth Reviewing, SEC Official Says  U.S. regulators should reconsider the 2007 rule change that
helped disperse stock trading among more than 50 different
platforms and caused complexity that critics say increased
malfunctions, Securities and Exchange Commissioner Daniel
Gallagher said.  The SEC’s Regulation NMS, named for National Market System,
mandates that U.S. stocks must trade on the venue that has the
best price at any time, helping private trading platforms and
upstart exchanges take business from the incumbent public
markets,  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  Nasdaq OMX Group (NDAQ)  Inc.  “It’s a prime candidate for a retrospective review,”
Gallagher told the Security Traders Association market structure
conference Oct. 3.  The commissioner, one of five members of the SEC, also said
the agency should re-examine other market-structure rules,
including the move to quoting all stocks in 1-cent increments
and the self-regulatory role played by exchanges, Gallagher
said.  While NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX Group still run the
exchanges serving as the home markets for all U.S. stocks, the
importance of listing venues has dwindled since Reg NMS took
effect in 2007.  For more, click here.  Stein Sees Market Risk in Securities Financing Transactions  Federal Reserve Governor Jeremy Stein said the market for
securities financing transactions poses a risk to the financial
system that may require further regulatory steps to contain.  “This market is one where a large number of borrowers
finance the same securities on a short-term collateralized
basis, with very high leverage -- often in the range of twenty-to-one, fifty-to-one, or even higher,” Stein said Oct. 4 at a
speech at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. “Hence, there
is a strong potential for any one borrower’s distress -- and the
associated downward pressure on prices -- to cause a tightening
of collateral or regulatory constraints on other borrowers.”  Stein didn’t discuss the outlook for monetary policy or the
economy in his prepared remarks. His speech focused on
securities financing transactions, which include repurchase
agreements, reverse repos, securities lending and borrowing, and
securities margin lending.  For more, click here.  Kocherlakota Says FOMC ‘Falling Short’ on Dual Mandate  Federal Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis  President Narayana
Kocherlakota spoke about Fed policy and the U.S. economy.  Kocherlakota, who spoke in Minneapolis, also commented on
the U.S. government shutdown and the debt ceiling.  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 