-- Swiss Stocks Slide to One-Month Low Amid U.S. Debt Talks
-- B y   A n d r e w   R u m m e r
-- 2013-10-07T09:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/swiss-stocks-slide-to-one-month-low-amid-u-s-debt-talks.html
Stocks in Switzerland  fell to a one-month low as the U.S. government shutdown entered a seventh day
and lawmakers made little progress on a deal to avert a possible
debt default.  UBS AG (UBSN) , the biggest Swiss bank, declined 2.3 percent for
the biggest drop in the Swiss Market Index. Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA, the maker of Cartier jewelry and IWC watches, lost
1.4 percent.  The SMI slid 0.8 percent to 7,876.93 at 11:54 a.m. in
Zurich, the lowest since Sept. 6. The benchmark gauge has
retreated 1.8 percent this month as U.S. lawmakers failed to
agree on a  federal budget , partially closing government
operations and setting up a showdown over the nation’s authority
to borrow. The broader Swiss Performance Index also decreased
0.8 percent today.  House of Representatives Speaker John Boehner said
yesterday in an interview on ABC that Republican lawmakers can’t
pass a debt-ceiling increase without packaging it with other
provisions, something President  Barack Obama  has said is
unacceptable. Boehner said the country could default if Obama
doesn’t negotiate.  Without an increase to the debt limit, the U.S. will
exhaust its borrowing authority on Oct. 17 and would run out of
funds to pay all of its bills sometime between Oct. 22 and Oct.
31, according to the Congressional Budget Office. The House and
Senate weren’t in session yesterday and there were no meetings
planned between the two sides.  The  SMI (SMI)  rose 3.6 percent in September, extending its gain
last quarter to 4.4 percent, as the Federal Reserve maintained
the pace of its monthly bond purchases. The gauge has rallied 15
percent in 2013.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
today was 15 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Rummer in London at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  