-- U.K. Lawmakers Urge Cameron to Stick With U.K. Climate Goals
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-10-08T09:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/u-k-lawmakers-urge-cameron-to-stick-with-u-k-s-climate-goals.html
The British government should stick
with its goals for limiting greenhouse gas emissions even though
the Treasury has criticized the ambition of the limits, a
Parliament panel said.  The Environmental Audit Committee, which includes lawmakers
from the three main political parties, said Prime Minister  David
Cameron  should avoid any effort to “water down” the long-term
targets now in place.  The comments are aimed at pressing Cameron to reject the
advice of Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who for
more than a year has said the U.K. shouldn’t lead the world in
reducing pollution from fossil fuels. Osborne is concerned caps
on carbon dioxide emissions may harm the economy. The panel said
Britain needs to do its part to prevent harm to the atmosphere.  “Given that emissions are currently not falling fast
enough to prevent a dangerous destabilization of the global
climate in the coming decades, it would be incredibly short-sighted to slacken our carbon budgets now,” said Joan Walley, a
member of Parliament for the Labour opposition who leads the
committee.  The U.K. limits greenhouse gas emissions through so-called
carbon budgets. The government next year is due to review the
budget covering the five-year period from 2023.  UN Report  Walley cited evidence in a report by the United Nations-sponsored Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate Change , which last
month said humans are mainly to blame for global warming. It
warned that emissions will cause heat waves and rising sea-levels before 2100.  The government introduced carbon budgets in the 2008
Climate Change Act to ensure Britain meets a legally binding
pledge to cut greenhouse gases 34 percent by 2020 and by 80
percent by 2050 from 1990 levels.  Business lobby groups such as the British Chambers of
Commerce have urged the government to revisit carbon limits,
which they say drive up costs and energy bills.  Lawmakers on the panel said the U.K. risks missing those
targets if the limits in the period from 2023 to 2027 are
loosened. Britain may also miss the preceding budget covering
2018 to 2022 because not enough progress is being made cutting
emissions from transport, buildings and heat, the report said.  The Committee on Climate Change, the government’s global
warming adviser, wrote in  a letter  to Energy Secretary Ed Davey
Oct. 3 saying there’s “no legal or economic justification” for
changing the fourth budget.  “The U.K. takes its obligations under the Climate Change
Act to cut emissions by 80 percent by 2050 extremely
seriously,” Davey said today in a statement responding to the
report. “As the world’s most prominent climate scientists have
said, we must not rest on our laurels if we want to avoid
dangerous climate change.”  The government is on track to meet its first three carbon
budgets, he said. Government accepted the fourth budget,
restricting  greenhouse gases  at 1,950 million tons of carbon
dioxide equivalent, in 2011 and set it in law, committing to
review it in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  