-- U.K. Lawmakers See Serious Shortcomings Over HS2 Case
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-10-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/u-k-lawmakers-see-serious-shortcomings-over-hs2-case.html
The U.K. government must re-examine
the economic case for the planned high-speed rail line from
 London  to northern England, lawmakers said, adding to questions
over the cost of the project.  Ministers should delay sending legislation on the line,
known as HS2, through Parliament before concerns are assessed,
the  House of Commons Treasury Committee  said in a report
published in London today. The cross-party panel noted that the
construction costs have increased by 17 percent to 42.6 billion
pounds ($68.6 billion) even before building has started.  “There appear to be serious shortcomings in the current
cost-benefit analysis for HS2,” the panel’s chairman,  Andrew Tyrie  from Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative Party,
said in an e-mailed statement. “A more convincing economic case
for the project is needed. We need reassurance that it can
deliver the benefits intended and that these benefits are
greater than those of other transport schemes -– whether in the
department’s project pipeline or not –- which may be foregone.”  Critics of the project have become increasingly vocal in
recent months. The Institute of Directors, a business lobby
group, said in August the plan is too expensive. The opposition
 Labour Party ’s Treasury spokesman,  Ed Balls , repeated a warning
last month that the line would be scrapped under a future Labour
government if costs run out of control.  Labour’s pro-HS2 transport spokeswoman, Maria Eagle, was
moved to cover a different policy area by the party leader,  Ed Miliband , in a revamp of his team of senior lawmakers yesterday.
The party said it’s policy hadn’t changed.  Construction Schedule  The government intends to introduce legislation on HS2 by
the end of 2013, with a plan for it to be passed by Parliament
by 2015. Construction would then begin in 2017, with the first
part of the line from London to Birmingham opening in 2026.
After Birmingham the route will split, with tracks going to
Manchester and Leeds. Those sections wouldn’t open until 2033.  Cameron, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and
Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin pledged continued support
for HS2 at the Tories’ party conference in Manchester last week.
McLoughlin said the line won’t divert investment from other
transport projects and condemned “moaning” by London-based
critics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  