-- U.K. Manufacturing Improves as Jobs Outlook Brightens, BCC Says
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-10-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/u-k-manufacturing-improves-as-jobs-outlook-brightens-bcc-says.html
U.K. factories saw domestic and
export demand strengthen in the third quarter and expect to
accelerate hiring in the next three months, according to the the
British Chamber of Commerce.  Measures of manufacturers’ export sales and orders rose to
the highest since the fourth quarter of 2010, the BCC said in a
report published in  London  today. An index of domestic sales in
the quarter increased, while companies’ employment expectations
advanced to a record.  The report, which also showed an improving jobs outlook in
the services industry, may reinforce the view that the economic
recovery will continue to strengthen. BCC Chief Economist David Kern said third-quarter growth may have accelerated to as fast
as 1 percent from 0.7 percent in the  previous three months  and
he expects to raise his full-year forecast.  “It’s clear that the U.K. upturn is gathering momentum,”
Kern said in a statement. “Growth will continue, but it is
likely to slow slightly following this recent spurt. External
shocks from the U.S. shutdown, possible debt default and
tapering, and continued risks elsewhere in the world could all
impact on our fragile recovery.”  The index of manufacturers’ export sales rose 12 points
from the second quarter to 35 and export orders climbed 11
points to 33, the BCC said. A gauge of domestic sales surged 22
points to 38 and employment expectations rose 9 points to 29.  “Confidence in the manufacturing sector has fueled a
temporary growth spurt, but it is too early to declare that the
recovery is now secure,” the BCC said.  An index of domestic orders at services companies rose to
the highest since 1994 in the third quarter. The  outlook for
hiring  in the services industry brightened, with a measure of
employment intentions advancing 4 points to 26, the highest
since 2007. That’s still lower than the level before the
recession, according to the BCC.  Within services, the export sales index slipped 2 points to
34 and the export orders gauge declined 1 point to 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  