-- U.K. House-Price Index Rises to Highest Since June 2002
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-10-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/u-k-house-price-index-rises-to-highest-since-june-2002.html
A U.K.  house-price index  rose to the
highest in more than a decade last month as government measures
to boost homebuying lifted the outlook for sales to a record.  A gauge by the  Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 
increased to 54, the highest since June 2002, from 41 in August,
the London-based group said in a report today, citing a poll of
property surveyors. A price-expectations measure advanced to 48,
the highest since May 2002.  The latest evidence of a strengthening property market
comes as the government begins the second phase of its Help to
Buy program. While the measure, aimed at helping potential
buyers get on the property ladder, has prompted warnings that it
could fuel a bubble, the  Bank of England  has said housing
activity remains low by historic standards.  “It’s encouraging that the market is starting to improve
in all parts of the country,” said Peter Bolton King, RICS
global residential director. “It’s a big concern that the
supply of property coming to the market is lagging so far behind
demand. This imbalance is likely to result in further upward
pressure in prices.”  While the index of new buyer enquiries -- a proxy for
demand -- fell to 49 in September from 65 in August, that
compares with a reading of 10 for new seller instructions,
today’s report showed. A gauge of sales expectations surged to
56 from 41, the highest since that index began in 1998.  “The pressure on prices is evident,” RICS said. “Growth
in demand has now outstripped growth in new instructions in
every month since February.”  Price Outlook  RICS said survey respondents reported price increases in
all regions in September, apart from the North, and expectations
indicators are positive in all areas.  London  and the Southeast
led gains last month, it said.  Respondents expect U.K. home values to gain 2.6 percent in
the next 12 months and an average 4.9 percent over the coming
five years. London prices are seen rising an average of 9
percent a year in that period.  RICS said the improving economy may be helping to release
some “pent-up demand.”  U.K. growth  accelerated in the second
quarter, and industry surveys indicate expansion may have
strengthened in the three months through September. Data from
mortgage lender Halifax showed that house values increased for
an eighth straight month in September.  “Stimulus such as the Bank of England’s Funding for
Lending scheme and the government’s Help to Buy initiative have
also had important roles,” RICS said. “Anecdotal evidence from
responses to this survey suggests the latter policy, in
particular, is now having an effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  