-- U.K. Stocks Decline as Boehner Rules Out Clean Debt Deal
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-10-07T15:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/u-k-stocks-decline-as-boehner-rules-out-clean-debt-deal.html
U.K. stocks  dropped, following a
second weekly loss for the benchmark index, after U.S. House
Speaker  John Boehner  said he will attach conditions before
passing a bill to increase the federal borrowing limit.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  slid 1.2 percent after the luxury
retailer’s chief executive officer told a French newspaper that
a sales slowdown in  China  may continue. Fresnillo Plc rose 2
percent as UBS AG advised investors to buy the shares.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lost 16.6 points, or 0.3 percent, to
6,437.28 at the close of trading in  London , paring a drop of as
much as 1 percent. The benchmark gauge retreated 0.9 percent
 last week  as investors weighed the economic impact of the U.S.
government’s first partial shutdown in 17 years. The broader
FTSE All-Share Index also declined 0.3 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index slipped 0.2 percent.  “The partial shutdown and lack of compromise between
Democrats and Republicans on the budget has increased stock-market volatility and made investors more risk averse as the
deadline to raise the debt ceiling approaches,” said Andre Pinheiro, a portfolio manager at Orey Financial SA in Lisbon.  U.S. lawmakers continued to wrangle over the budget for the
new financial year, which started Oct. 1, in a deadlock that
could spill into talks over raising the $16.7 trillion  debt
ceiling  this month. Boehner ruled out passing a bill increasing
the borrowing limit without setting preconditions.  “We are not going to pass a clean debt limit,” Boehner
said in an interview yesterday on ABC’s “This Week” program.
“The votes are not in the House to pass a clean debt limit.”  ‘No Negotiation’  President  Barack Obama ’s administration said it won’t
negotiate with Boehner’s party over funding the government or
raising the debt ceiling, arguing neither should be used as
points of leverage. Republicans have called for changes to
Obama’s health-care law before agreeing to a new budget.  The Treasury has said that it will exhaust measures to
avoid exceeding the borrowing limit on Oct. 17. If that happens,
the government would run out of cash to pay all of its bills at
some point between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  The number of shares changing hands today in FTSE 100-listed stocks was 28 percent lower than the average of the past
30 days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. An earnings release
from Alcoa Inc. tomorrow will mark the unofficial start of the
U.S. quarterly reporting season.  Burberry Drops  Burberry declined 1.2 percent to 1,608 pence. CEO Angela
Ahrendts told  Les Echos  that a slowdown in sales from China may
not be an accident but a new trend. The Asia-Pacific region was
the retailer’s biggest market in the 2013 fiscal year,
 accounting  for 39 percent of total revenue.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  slipped 2.8 percent to 480.3
pence, its biggest drop in seven weeks. Same-store sales at its
non-food division probably fell 1.5 percent in the second
quarter, Credit Suisse Group AG analyst  Simon Irwin  wrote in a
note. That compared with the analyst’s earlier prediction for
growth of 0.5 percent. Marks & Spencer will report its latest
financial results on Nov. 5.  Fresnillo added 2 percent to 931.5 pence. UBS upgraded its
rating for the commodity producer to buy from neutral and named
it among its most-preferred mining stocks, saying the company
trades at an attractive value after dropping 25 percent in
September.  Fresnillo (FRES)   trades  at 29.3 times earnings projected for
the next 12 months, down from 40.1 times in late August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  