-- Senate Democrats Plan Debt Ceiling Increase Without Cuts
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-10-07T18:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/u-s-senate-democrats-plan-to-introduce-debt-ceiling-increase.html
Senate Democrats  could introduce
legislation as soon as today that gives President  Barack Obama 
the authority to raise the debt ceiling unless two-thirds of
Congress disapproves, according to a Senate Democratic aide.  A test vote on the proposal, described by the aide on
condition of anonymity, could occur as soon as Oct. 11, just six
days before federal borrowing authority is set to expire.  Democrats have been pressing for a one-year increase in the
nation’s $16.7 trillion  debt  ceiling without any of the spending
cuts or policy changes Republicans are demanding. With a
government shutdown almost a week old and the partisan impasse
that caused it showing no signs of breaking, lawmakers of both
parties have turned to the debt ceiling as a possible mechanism
for ending the shutdown.  The method of giving Obama the authority to raise the debt
ceiling barring a congressional disapproval was first proposed
by Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, in 2011 and became part of the Budget Control Act
passed in August of that year.  The Senate Democratic aide said the strategy could make it
easier to gain Republican votes because no Republican would have
to vote directly for a debt-ceiling increase. Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said last week in an
interview that he would move a “clean” debt ceiling increase
bill before Oct. 17, when the Treasury expects borrowing
authority to lapse.  Delay Possibility  Under Senate rules, opponents of the Democrats’ proposal
could delay a final vote until late on Oct. 15, giving the House
less than two days to act before borrowing authority lapses.  Obama press secretary  Jay Carney  said the White House still
wants the debt ceiling raised for at least a year to “remove
uncertainty” for financial markets while not “ruling out a
specific duration.”  “The longer you raise the debt ceiling,” the better it
would be, Carney said today.  At several points in the process, Democrats would need to
hold their caucus together and find six Republicans to advance
the bill. The final vote to give Obama the authority would
require a simple majority and thus no Republican votes.
Democrats control a 54-46 majority in the Senate.  Political Leverage  Democrats, who agreed to spending cuts as part of the 2011
debt-ceiling negotiations, say they won’t budge this time
because they have more leverage, in part because Republican
gains in last year’s election fell short of their 2010
performance when they won control of the House.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, has been
trying to package the debt limit with as many party priorities
as possible, including  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline,
limits on environmental regulations and cuts to entitlement
programs.  Representative  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican and his
party’s 2012 vice presidential candidate, is pressing for a plan
that would resolve the spending impasse and raise the debt limit
while extracting entitlement program cuts and making changes to
economic policies, according to a leadership aide who asked not
to be identified because plans aren’t official.  Obama, who met with congressional leaders at the White
House last week, today reiterated that he wouldn’t accept
spending cuts or policy changes as a prerequisite for raising
the debt ceiling. Republicans want to place limits on Obama’s
2010 health-care law as part of their demands for raising the
borrowing limit.  “We’re not going to negotiate under the threat of economic
catastrophe,” Obama said during a visit to the  Federal
Emergency Management Agency  in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  