-- Ukraine Economic Imbalances Are Unsustainable, World Bank Says
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-10-07T12:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/ukraine-economic-imbalances-are-unsustainable-world-bank-says.html
Ukraine must act quickly to correct
imbalances in its economy, which threaten to widen the budget
and current-account deficits beyond the government’s control,
the  World Bank  said.  Ukraine should allow a more flexible currency exchange rate
and give up gas-price subsidies to qualify for international
bailout funds, Quimiao Fan, the World Bank’s director for
Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine, told reporters today in Kiev, the
capital. The Washington-based lender cut its estimate for the
country’s 2013 economic growth to zero from 1 percent.  Ukraine is struggling with an  economic contraction , a
widening current-account gap, shrinking foreign reserves and
trade restrictions from  Russia , its biggest export market.
Delaying an economic overhaul beyond presidential elections in
2015 would only make the changes more painful and the recovery
more protracted, Fan said.  “The economic situation is bad,” Fan said. “Adjustment
is inevitable. The only question is whether Ukraine will reform
now or will adjustment be delayed.”  Ukraine’s government bonds due next year fell, pushing the
yield up to 15.112 percent, the highest level in a week, as of
1:58 p.m. in Kiev, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
cost to insure Ukrainian government debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps surged to a three-year
high of 1,089 basis points on Sept. 27. They were little changed
at 1,063 basis points today.  Reserves Plunge  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Ukraine’s debt rating
on Sept. 20 by one level to Caa1, seven steps below investment
grade, citing growing political and economic risks due to
deteriorating relations with Russia, low central bank reserves
and a lack of progress on an international bailout from the
 International Monetary Fund .  Central bank reserves are languishing at a seven-year low
of $21.7 billion as of end-August, down from $30 billion a year
earlier, as policy makers dipped into the stockpile to support
the hryvnia. That’s less than three months of imports, a
threshold economists deem important for financial stability.  Ukraine’s budget deficit, including state-run energy
company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, may exceed 6.5 percent of gross
domestic product this year, while the current-account gap may
total 8 percent,  Anastasia Golovach , World Bank’s economist in
Kiev, said.  “It is impossible to support twin deficits, while the
central bank’s reserves are declining,” she said. “Also, such
tendencies have a negative impact on investors’ mood, making it
more difficult for the government to borrow on international
markets.”  Should the government delay the changes until after the
elections, GDP may shrink 1 percent in 2015, while inflation may
jump to 18 percent, Golovach said.  “Ukraine needs to start reform this year or next year at
the latest, preferable reaching a deal with the IMF,” she said.
“Then its economic growth may accelerate to 1.5 percent next
year and 3 percent in 2015.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  