-- Hungary Rejects Croat Arrest Warrant Against Mol’s CEO
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-10-07T14:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/hungary-rejects-croat-arrest-warrant-against-mol-s-ceo.html
A Hungarian court rejected a Croatian
arrest warrant against Mol Nyrt. Chairman  Zsolt Hernadi  that was
issued after he failed to testify in a corruption probe of how
Mol gained control of its Croatian unit.  The Budapest Metropolitan Court rejected the warrant
because Hungarian prosecutors already conducted an investigation
in the same matter and found no evidence of criminal wrongdoing,
Budapest Chief Prosecutor Tibor Ibolya said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “The Metropolitan Court, agreeing with the prosecution,
rejected executing the European arrest warrant and the handing
over of Zsolt Hernadi,” Ibolya said.  Croatia  is investigating the contract that gave Mol
management control over  INA  Industrija Nafte d.d. after a Zagreb
court ruled former Premier Ivo Sanader received a bribe from Mol
in the 2009 deal and sentenced him to 10 years in prison.
Sanader is appealing. Mol has denied any wrongdoing.  Mol shares dropped 0.8 percent to 15,330 forint by 4:08
p.m. in Budapest, extending its decline to 4.2 percent since
Croatian police announced issuing the arrest warrant against
Hernadi on Oct. 1. INA shared dropped 7.3 percent in the same
period.  Croatia is applying “non-economic” methods to intimidate
Mol, Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said Oct. 4. The
Zagreb-based government should consider settling the dispute by
buying out Mol’s INA stake and abandon the legal case against
Mol, Orban said.  Croatia’s judiciary is independent and the government
“cannot negotiate over” Hernadi’s arrest, Croatian Prime
Minister  Zoran Milanovic  said the same day.  Mol owns 49.1 percent of INA and has management rights in
the company. Croatia’s government, which complains that Mol runs
INA as a subsidiary rather than an independent company, holds
44.84 percent. Hungary’s government is Mol’s biggest shareholder
with a 25 percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  