-- United Technologies Cancels Furloughs as Shutdown Eases
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-10-07T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/united-technologies-cancels-furloughs-as-shutdown-eases.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , maker of
Black Hawk helicopters, canceled plans to furlough as many as
4,000 workers after the Pentagon said most civilian employees it
sent home in the federal shutdown will be put back to work.  The U.S. government’s sixth-largest contractor had planned
to put 2,000 workers on leave beginning today at its Sikorsky
Aircraft unit after military inspectors required to monitor
production work were put on leave. Another 2,000 workers at the
Hartford, Connecticut-based company’s  Pratt & Whitney  and UTC
Aerospace Systems had faced furloughs this week.  The Pentagon said on Oct. 5 that 90 percent or more of
about 350,000 workers it furloughed last week will be coming
back, including inspectors who review contract work.  United
Technologies  was the first of the top military contractors to
reverse furloughs. Other leading suppliers, including Bethesda,
Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , hadn’t called off plans to
put staff on leave as of 6 p.m. yesterday Washington time.  “United Technologies greatly appreciates the efforts of
those in the administration and Congress who facilitated the
recall of the furloughed civilian employees,” the company said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Robert Hale, undersecretary of defense, said on Oct. 5 that
he had no concrete estimate for how many civilian defense
employees would remain off the job during the shutdown. Some of
those who won’t return include staff in  information technology ,
auditing and public affairs, he said.  Ending Shutdown  “We haven’t solved all the problems,” Hale told reporters
on a conference calls. “We still hope Congress will act very
quickly to end this shutdown.”  The Aerospace Industries Association, an Arlington,
Virginia-based trade group, said in a statement last week that
companies had voiced concerns that if the shutdown continued,
they would be forced to furlough tens of thousands of workers.  Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, said on
Oct. 4 that it had identified about 3,000 of its employees for
furloughs starting today. It’s still too early to tell if those
plans will change, Gordon Johndroe, a spokesman for the company,
said yesterday.  “We’ll continue to be in close contact with the Pentagon
and are hopeful that our programs and contracts can move
forward,” Johndroe said in an e-mail.  Awaiting Assurances  Other contractors are likely to follow Lockheed’s lead and
wait for some assurances from the Pentagon or Congress before
ending plans for furloughs, said Mark Amtower, who owns a
Clarksville, Maryland-based government-contracts consulting
firm.  “Are they going to pay them now? Are they going to get
paid later?,” Amtower said in a phone interview. “A little
clarification from Congress would be nice.”  A U.S. unit of London-based  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  said last week
that it had excused from work about 1,000 employees in its
intelligence and security division.  As many as 10 percent to 15 percent of the 34,500 U.S.-
based employees of BAE Systems Inc., its U.S. unit, may be
affected by the shutdown, the company said last week.  Brian Roehrkasse, a spokesman for the division, didn’t
provide comment on whether any of its workers may be reinstated
or protected from the government closing after the Pentagon
decision.  “Many of those 1,000 workers who were excused by their
government agencies” support intelligence agencies, not the
Defense Department, Roehrkasse said in an e-mail yesterday.  Boeing Co. (BA) , the No. 2 contractor, said last week it may
begin “limited furloughs” this week. The Chicago-based company
hasn’t received “specific information” from its Defense
Department customers about the plans to reinstate workers, said
Meghan McCormick, a Boeing spokeswoman.  “Therefore it would be inappropriate to speculate about
what it might mean for Boeing employees and operations,”
McCormick said in an e-mail yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  