-- Turkey’s Unwise Pivot to the East
-- B y   C e n k   S i d a r
-- 2013-10-07T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/turkey-s-unwise-pivot-to-the-east.html
In January, Turkish Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that because his country’s talks to
join the European Union had stalled, he might seek instead to
join  China  and Russia in the  Shanghai Cooperation Organization .  Few took the threat seriously; Turkey has been a member of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization since the 1950s. Yet the
government’s decision late last month to award a $3 billion air
and missile defense system contract to a state-run company from
China suggests that Erdogan is turning east to look for new
security partners.  The China Precision Machinery Import-Export Corp., or
CPMIEC, won the contract to co-produce its HQ-9 surface-to-air
missile system in Turkey over bids from the makers of U.S.
Patriot missiles, Russian S-300s and a French-Italian
equivalent. CPMIEC offered to produce the Turkish defense
system, T-Loramids, for about $1 billion less than its
competitors, and with more flexibility for transferring the
technology involved to  Turkey . The Chinese also offered to
invest in building a technology park on the outskirts of
Istanbul.  So there were good, practical reasons to want the Chinese
deal, yet from a wider standpoint, the decision suggests
Erdogan’s government wants to demonstrate to the West that it
can have its defense needs met elsewhere. Erdogan’s
disillusionment with the U.S. and the EU has deepened since his
statement in January, due to their condemnation of the harsh way
in which he dealt with the so-called Gezi Park protests, which
he characterized as a  foreign plot  conducted by terrorists. He
has been upset, too, by the failure of the U.S. to intervene
militarily in  Syria .  Incompatible Systems  Chinese-built missiles, as U.S. officials said in
expressing  concerns  about the deal after it was announced, would
not be interoperable with NATO systems, as are the Patriot
missiles that  Germany  installed along Turkey’s border with Syria
last year. In putting a Chinese system in place,  analysts say ,
Turkey would forfeit an important NATO radar capability,
including for a planned missile defense system that will have
its forward radar in southeastern Turkey. This involves top-secret technology that cannot be transferred to non-NATO
members, yet Chinese designers would need access to that
information if they were to make their system interoperable.  Another worry for the U.S. is CPMIEC’s alleged arms
dealings with  Iran  and  Pakistan , which prompted the U.S. to ban
any U.S. individual or company from doing business with the
Chinese company. President  Barack Obama  twice  warned Erdogan 
against the deal in recent face-to-face meetings, according to
the Turkish Today’s Zaman newspaper. After the news broke, State
Department spokeswoman Jennifer Psaki said the administration
had conveyed its “serious concerns” to Turkish officials.  Working with CPMIEC would appear to be a cheaper option for
Turkey, while giving it more potential to develop its own
defense industry. But should cost be the top concern, given the
larger ramifications? The Erdogan government’s hesitation --
seen days later, when officials said the deal was still in the
negotiation phase and could be reconsidered -- suggests it may
be rethinking the ramifications of flirting with Beijing on
security. Turkish officials have denied that U.S. pressure is a
factor.  From a geopolitical standpoint, selling arms to Turkey
makes sense for China, whose influence in the Middle East has
been on the rise, if unevenly so. The Chinese have deepened
their economic  ties  with countries such as Jordan, a strong U.S.
ally. Increasing bilateral trade volumes and high-level meetings
clearly demonstrates China’s interest in the region -- China’s
trade with Arab nations more than quadrupled to $200 billion
from 2004 to 2011, and the government has  targeted  a figure of
$300 billion by 2014. In Libya, where 35,000 Chinese workers had
to be evacuated during the 2011 uprising against former
President Muammar Qaddafi, it became clear that this scale of
involvement in the Middle East has security implications for
China.  Opposite Sides  For Turkey, the tie makes less sense. The two countries are
on opposite sides of the global standoff over the Syrian war,
with Turkey supporting the rebels and pushing for a stronger
response from the West, while China has joined  Russia  at the
United Nations in protecting President Bashar al-Assad’s regime.
The two countries’ positions on Iran’s controversial nuclear
program also don’t line up. And China was a harsh critic of NATO
operations in the Balkans in the 1990s, which Turkey strongly
supported.  So if Erdogan does continue to seek Chinese military
cooperation, what could that mean for any future Middle East
conflict? As the U.S. to some extent pulls back from the region
in coming years, implementing its own “pivot to Asia,” this
may open a space for China, which wants a bigger role in the
Middle East to meet soaring energy needs. China, however, has no
track record of sharing the values that the West -- including
Turkey, as a long-standing democracy in the region -- has
promoted there. Erdogan, therefore, has no way of knowing
whether China will share Turkey’s priorities in future crises,
and the split over Syria is only the latest and most obvious
indicator that it probably won’t. The last thing Turkey needs is
to make itself dependent on a major military power that it can’t
trust in its own neighborhood.  (Cenk Sidar is the managing director of Sidar Global
Advisors, a Washington-based political risk assessment and
advisory firm.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cenk Sidar at  cenk@sidarglobal.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 