-- Utilities Spurned by Top Court on Phone-Company Pole Fees
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-10-07T13:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/utilities-spurned-by-top-court-on-phone-company-pole-fees.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  turned away a
challenge by five power companies to new federal rules that
lower the fees telecommunications companies must pay to attach
lines to electric utility poles.  The justices today left intact Federal Communications
Commission rules that were upheld by an appeals court in
February. Units of  American Electric Power Co. (AEP) ,  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK) ,  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) , Energy Future Holdings Corp. and
 Southern Co. (SO)  had asked the Supreme Court to intervene.  Power companies estimated in 2011 that the FCC plan would
cost them $1.2 billion in forgone fees annually. At the Supreme
Court, those utilities said the rules may shift $350 million in
costs from telecommunications companies to electric utility
ratepayers.  “The FCC’s abrupt reversal of course will fundamentally
restructure the relationship between the electric and telephone
industries,” the companies argued in their appeal.  The rebuff is a victory for  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon
Communications Inc., the largest U.S. phone companies, which
backed the FCC in the legal fight.  The large telephone companies hadn’t previously been
covered by pole-attachment rate regulation and instead
negotiated prices with power companies. That was a legacy of
their roots in the Bell monopoly era during the last century.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration said in court
papers that the FCC made the change to reflect “current market
realities.”  ‘Robust Competition’  Given that the large phone companies “are still relatively
nascent in video and other markets in which they offer new
services, the commission concluded that they too can benefit
from the oversight of pole attachment rates in the interests of
robust competition,” U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli,
the administration’s top courtroom lawyer, argued in court
papers.  The legal dispute turned on the 1978 Pole Attachments Act,
which authorizes the FCC to regulate the rates charged to cable-television companies and “providers of telecommunications
services.” The utilities said other parts of the law indicate
that phrase excludes established telephone service providers.  The U.S. has 134 million utility poles, according to a 2009
cable-company study. About 49 million of those are subject to
FCC-regulated rates, with the remainder regulated by states or
exempt from federal rules, the study found.  The case is American Electric Power Service v. Federal
Communications Commission, 12-1396.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  