-- TV Chef Hopkinson Revamps Bibendum With New Oyster Bar
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-10-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/tv-chef-hopkinson-revamps-bibendum-with-new-oyster-bar.html
Reckon that British restaurants were
bad until recently? That  London  is at the center of a culinary
revolution like the Britpop musical wave of the ’90s?  Simon Hopkinson isn’t so sure.  “There are certainly more restaurants,” the chef says.
He’s been a food-world hero for decades but was little known
outside it until he became an unlikely TV favorite with “ The
Good Cook ” in 2011 and more recently “ Simon Hopkinson Cooks .”  “In the ’70s and early ’80s, I remember some extraordinary
places outside London where individuals -- you might say gifted
amateurs -- produced beautiful food,” Hopkinson, 59, says in an
interview at Bibendum. It’s the restaurant he opened in November
1987 with the designer Terence Conran and publisher Paul Hamlyn.  “You go back to the  George Perry-Smith  days, Joyce
Molyneux,” he says with reference to pioneering British chefs.
“They were extraordinary. And I’m not sure we’ll ever see that
again. And also the demise of the grand hotel dining room. Now,
the only place would be the Goring maybe. I used to love the old
Connaught, for instance. But fashions change.”  Hopkinson quit Bibendum in 1995 and is currently working
with his successor -- Matthew Harris -- to revamp the ground-floor oyster bar. There will be new chairs and menus, with hot
dishes and all-day dining. Upstairs at the restaurant, some
dishes -- including snails and steak au poivre -- have survived
since the start. Harris, sitting beside Hopkinson, says that
while the menu has evolved, it’s not fundamentally different.  Henry’s Racine  (Matthew’s brother Henry owns Racine. He formerly worked
with Matthew at Hopkinson’s former restaurant Hilaire, on the
Old Brompton Road, and then at Bibendum.)  Was Bibendum ahead of its time?  “We were doing very French bourgeois sort of food,”
Hopkinson says. “It was a big menu: roast chicken and roast
racks of lambs. No one else was doing that. Well, the Connaught
would have been and the old Savoy Grill and that sort of thing:
saddle of lamb on the trolley, sorely missed. People don’t know
how to carve any more. That’s a sweeping statement but the
saddle of lamb at the Savoy Grill was one of the best things in
the world. It was beautiful.”  These days, Hopkinson likes to eat at Le Cafe Anglais, the
restaurant of his chef friend, Rowley Leigh, and Bibendum. He
also favors Otto’s, a French establishment across the road from
where he records voiceovers for his television shows.  He’s softly spoken and comes alive when he gets onto food.
He lovingly describes the curry on the new menu.  “Our curry has got apricots in it, dried apricots,” he
says. “It’s spicy, though, and it uses a very good spice mix
called  nihari , which is hottish but it’s not blow-your-head-off
and it is aniseedy, which is quite unusual.”  The revamped Bibendum Oyster Bar officially opens on Nov. 4
at Bibendum, 81 Fulham Road, London, SW3 6RD. Information:
 http://www.bibendum.co.uk/  or +44-20-7581-5817  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on arts,  Zinta
Lundborg’s  interviews and  Amanda Gordon ’s Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 