-- Egypt Violence Spreads as Security Forces Attacked
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A h m e d   E l - S a y e d
-- 2013-10-07T15:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/violence-rocks-egypt-a-day-after-clashes-with-islamists.html
A shooting and separate explosion
targeting Egyptian security forces left at least nine dead a day
after 51 people were killed in police clashes with Islamists
that fueled the turmoil threatening the nation’s political
transition.  Five soldiers and one officer were killed when gunmen
opened fire on them near the Suez Canal city of Ismailiya,
according to Moustafa Younes, a police officer in the province.
Three policemen were killed in a blast outside a security
installation in Southern Sinai, the  Interior Ministry  said.
Mohamed Darwish, an officer at provincial security directorate,
described it as a car bomb.  “What we are witnessing is part of a very long process of
confrontation that will continue to be violent until a decisive
event happens,” either in the form of reconciliation or a
harsher military crackdown, said Ziad Akl, a senior researcher
at the Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies in
Cairo.  The eruption of violence underscores the difficulty of
restoring security three months after the ouster of former
President Mohamed Mursi and the worst crackdown in decades on
the Muslim Brotherhood which fielded him for office.  The Brotherhood used rallies yesterday to mark the
anniversary of the 1973 war with  Israel  to push back against the
clampdown and reinvigorate the protest movement. The bloodshed
is undermining efforts to revive a battered economy, leaving the
most populous Arab country largely dependent on aid from Gulf
states to stem a decline in foreign reserves.  ‘Brute Force’  “If you keep on having clashes that kill over 50, then the
economy is not going to fully recover,” said  Shadi Hamid ,
director of research at the Brookings Doha Center in Qatar.
“That’s the main bargaining chip that the Brotherhood and their
allies have: They can essentially undermine  Egypt ’s economic
recovery if they continue to protest and security forces respond
with brute force.”  The country’s benchmark stock index closed at its highest
level in eight months as investors shrugged off the deadly
clashes. The EGX 30 Index gained 0.7 percent to 5,765.87, the
strongest since Feb. 5, at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo.  The government has announced a stimulus package of about 22
billion Egyptian pounds to spur economic growth stuck at about 2
percent since 2011. That compares with 6.2 percent average
annual growth in the previous five years.  Civil War Concerns  Also today unknown assailants fired at the country’s
satellite station in Cairo’s Maadi suburb, hitting a dish while
not affecting the station’s performance, the Interior Ministry
said.  Defense Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi told Al Masry Al Youm
newspaper the army intervened in the ousting of Mursi on July 3
after protests against the Islamist leader in order to prevent a
civil war.  “If we had reached the stage of civil fighting or civil
war, the army wouldn’t have been able to stand against it or
prevent its consequences,” al-Seesi said in comments published
today.  The military has been waging a battle against what it
describes as “terrorists” in Sinai, with officials worried the
violence there could breed an insurgency in other parts of the
country.  Political Arm  At least 375 people were injured in yesterday’s fighting,
the state-run Middle East News Agency reported, citing Health
Ministry official Khalid al-Khatib. Many of those killed were in
Cairo and Giza, both the sites of pro-Mursi sit-ins that were
broken up by security forces in August leaving hundreds killed.  A judicial body today recommended disbanding the Muslim
Brotherhood’s political arm, the Freedom and Justice Party,
state-run Ahram Gate reported.  In the face of a wave of arrests, prosecutions and asset-freezes that has weakened its leadership, the Brotherhood and
its allies continue to call for street protests to reverse what
they say is the “coup” that unseated Mursi.  “While the putschists hold festive celebrations for a
faction of this nation, in which they promise to dance over the
dead bodies of their fellow citizens who oppose the coup, they
send their forces to kill, maim, arrest and detain peaceful
Egyptians,” the main alliance backing Mursi said in a
statement. “This revolution will not be repressed or derailed
by the heinous killings.”  The group called for demonstrations throughout the week,
including a protest on Friday in  Tahrir Square , the iconic plaza
of the 2011 revolution that toppled  Hosni Mubarak , in a move
that could lead to new clashes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed Khalilelsayed in Cairo at 
 akhalilelsay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  