-- Vodacom, MTN Fall as South Africa Cuts Fees: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-10-07T13:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/vodacom-mtn-fall-as-south-africa-cuts-fees-johannesburg-mover.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , South Africa’s
largest wireless operator, fell the most in more than three
months after the telecommunications regulator halved mobile
termination rates for carriers.  The company’s  shares  declined as much as 6.6 percent, the
most since June 24, and traded 6.4 percent lower at 115.78 rand
as of 3:30 p.m. in Johannesburg. More than 3.5 million shares
traded, almost twice the three month daily average.  MTN Group
Ltd. (MTN) , Vodacom’s nearest competitor, was down 3.7 percent, its
biggest fall in more than a month.  The fee mobile phone companies pay each other to end calls
on another network will drop to 20 cents ($0.02) from March
2014, half the current price, the Independent Communications
Authority of  South Africa  said in an Oct. 4 statement on its
website. It will then fall by 5 cents in each of the following
two years.  “The market is seeing it as ICASA’s intention to drive
prices down, so obviously there’ll be pricing pressure” on
market leaders Vodacom and MTN, BPI Capital Africa Pty Ltd.
analyst Kate Turner-Smith said by phone. “The majority of the
calls that are made from a Vodacom or a MTN network are either
onto the same network or onto the bigger rival, so as much as
the interconnect rate will affect their revenue, it will also
improve their cost base.”  The authority last revised call termination rates in 2010
after ruling the market was uncompetitive. Vodacom and MTN
dominate the mobile industry in South Africa with a combined
share of about 84 percent, according to a report by Deloitte
Digital published in February.  Smaller Players  Closely-held Cell C Pty Ltd. is the third-biggest operator
with a 14 percent market share. The yield on the company’s
dollar bond due in July 2015 climbed 249 basis points to 11.71
percent, the highest in a month.  “It has blasted the way open by drastically reducing the
single largest cost factor in prices, namely the mobile
termination rates which both Vodacom and MTN enjoy,” Cell C
Chief Executive Officer Alan Knott-Craig said in an e-mailed
statement. “This is but the first regulatory step in
normalising the South Africa telecommunications space.”  Lower termination rates are designed to benefit smaller
mobile-phone companies as they will pay less to access the much
larger networks operated by MTN and Vodacom. Fixed-line operator
 Telkom SA SOC Ltd. (TKG) , which said on its website its Telkom Mobile
unit has a 2.2 percent market share,  gained  6 percent to 26.74
rand.  Studying Proposals  “MTN will closely examine the contents of the proposed
regulations and analyze its potential regulatory and economic
impact,” Fusi Mokoena, acting chief corporate service officer
of MTN South Africa, said by e-mail. “Once MTN has reviewed the
document, it will compile its response and file the required
submission on the due date.”  Vodacom also is studying the proposed changes and will
comment at a later date, spokesman Richard Boorman said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  