-- Vodacom Will Fight Regulator Over Plans to Cut Phone Rate
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-10-07T16:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/vodacom-will-fight-regulator-over-plans-to-cut-phone-rate.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , South Africa’s
largest wireless provider, said it will contest the
telecommunications regulator’s plans to halve mobile termination
rates from March and cut fees for smaller operators.  The amount mobile-phone companies pay each other to end
calls on another network will drop 50 percent to 20 cents
($0.02), the Independent Communications Authority of South
Africa said in an Oct. 4 statement. It will then fall by 5 cents
in each of the following two years.  “Cuts in mobile termination rates can have a profound
impact on our business and those of our suppliers, franchisees
and other stakeholders,” Vodacom Chief Executive Officer
Shameel Joosub said in a statement. The company will respond to
the regulator and argue the initial drop of 50 percent is “too
steep and could have serious negative impacts.”  The authority last revised call termination rates in 2010
after ruling the market was uncompetitive. Vodacom and  MTN Group
Ltd. (MTN)  dominate the mobile industry in South Africa with a
combined share of about 84 percent, according to a report by
Deloitte Digital published in February.  Vodacom fell 6.3 percent, the most since June 24, to 116
rand at the close in Johannesburg. MTN dropped 3.1 percent to
193 rand.  “The market is seeing it as ICASA’s intention to drive
prices down, so obviously there’ll be pricing pressure” on
Vodacom and MTN, BPI Capital Africa Pty Ltd. analyst Kate Turner-Smith said by phone.  ‘Subsidizing Competitors’  Johannesburg-based Vodacom will discuss the proposals with
the regulator to seek a “more reasonable outcome,” Joosub said
in the statement. Changes to so-called asymmetry, which charges
smaller companies less than the biggest market players for
network access, are “effectively subsidizing our competitors,”
he said.  Lower termination rates are designed to benefit smaller
mobile-phone companies as they will pay less to access the much
larger networks operated by MTN and Vodacom. Fixed-line operator
 Telkom SA SOC Ltd. (TKG) , which said on its website its Telkom Mobile
unit has a 2.2 percent market share, gained 5 percent to 26.50
rand.  Closely held Cell C Pty Ltd. is the third-biggest mobile-phone operator in South Africa with a 14 percent market share.
The yield on the company’s dollar bond due in July 2015 climbed
249 basis points to 11.71 percent, a one-month high.  The rate cut “has blasted the way open by drastically
reducing the single largest cost factor in prices, namely the
mobile termination rates which both Vodacom and MTN enjoy,”
Cell C Chief Executive Officer Alan Knott-Craig said in an e-mailed statement. “This is but the first regulatory step in
normalizing the  South Africa  telecommunications space.”  Editor:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  