-- Midnight Madness Scene: Goldman Fights Morgan for Charity
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-10-07T04:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/weekend-scene-goldman-morgan-aid-poor-with-madness-.html
Almost 300 people in finance wandered
the streets of  Manhattan  this weekend in the all-night puzzle
competition “Midnight Madness.”  From sunset Saturday night to around 2 p.m. on Sunday, 30
teams of 10 tapped on gravestones, assembled an electronic piano
and decoded countless ciphers.  The competition, in its second year, lets young
professionals raise money for charity while showing off their
skills in problem-solving. The challenges are in development for
months and feature dozens of clues, cues, keys and experiences.  “It’s a combination of solving puzzles and figuring out
the quirky, twisted stuff that goes on in the minds of Game
Control,” said Dan Sharfman, captain of Black Gold,
representing the commodities group at  Goldman Sachs Group (GS)  Inc.  Game Control consisted of more than 50 people assembled by
Goldman partner Elisha Wiesel, who founded the “Madness” and
is the son of Elie Wiesel, as well as event producer Lindsi
Shine, and game designers Mat Laibowitz and Dan Michaelson.  Their headquarters was Big Daddy’s Diner in the East 20s,
where the hint-givers included Alan Solomon, who played the
character that planned “The Great Allnighter” in the 1980 film
“Midnight Madness.”  The entry fee is $50,000. Employees of  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
Goldman and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  turned to their senior managers for
donations. Citigroup’s global markets team orchestrated stunts,
such as paying to throw a pie at your boss.  Money Raised  The result: $2.9 million raised for  Good Shepherd Services ,
which cares for the poor in  New York City . It was more than
double the proceeds from last year’s inaugural event.  “I live close to Red Hook and knowing these guys are
engaged there in housing and health care makes this
meaningful,” said Shahzad Ali of the prime services group at
Goldman and a member of team 0xff00, which won last year.  The competition began in the parking lot of an abandoned
Pathmark near the Manhattan Bridge. The Alphanauts, a team of
Connecticut hedge-funders, arrived after dining at Nobu.  The hints and the clues led teams around the city from Pier
25 in Hudson River Park to the roof of a private event space and
 New York  Marble Cemetery in the East Village.  The West Coast Burninators, with some high-tech types who
tackle puzzles like this on a regular basis, came in first.
Teams crossed over a miniature bridge printed with the word
“Finish,” located at 7 World Trade Center.  Exhausted, many saw the open arms of Sister Paulette
LoMonaco, the head of Good Shepherd Services, who was ready with
hugs and bagels.  “The connection with ‘Midnight Madness’ is that every day
we are working to solve the puzzle of extreme poverty,” Sister
Paulette said.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 