-- World Bank Urges Poor Countries to Manage Risk to Unlock Growth
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-10-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/world-bank-urges-poor-countries-to-manage-risk-to-unlock-growth.html
Developing countries  should be more
willing to take risks that have the potential to spur growth,
the World Bank said in a report today.  While disregarding risk can lead to economic disaster, too
much fear of it can hinder improvements in  living standards ,
according to the report released as the lender prepares for its
annual meeting this week in Washington. The report lays out
strategies for managing the tradeoff between avoiding costly
shocks and pursuing opportunities.  “There is substantial evidence that recognizing and
preparing for risk can pay off abundantly,” World Bank
President Jim Yong Kim said in the foreword accompanying the
report. He called on the bank’s member nations “to move from
being ‘crisis fighters’ to becoming ‘proactive and systematic
risk managers.’”  Having insulated their economies from the financial crisis
with conservative policies, many low-income countries would
benefit from enabling more risk taking in their private sectors,
according to the report. The recommendations reflect the bank’s
push under Kim to develop a bolder approach to its goals of
ending extreme poverty by 2030 and lifting incomes of the
poorest 40 percent.  As  emerging markets  contend with volatile capital outflows,
their efforts to preserve financial stability are coming back
into focus. During the global downturn, some developing
economies showed resilience because of “macroprudential”
regulations they had adopted to a greater extent than advanced
economies, the Washington-based bank said.  Macroprudential Tools  In  South Korea , for example, banks are taxed as much as 0.2
percent of their non-core, or discretionary, liabilities to keep
them from assuming harmful debt. Other macroprudential policies
cited in the report include  reserve requirements  for banks and
limits on dividends in good times to ensure a capital buffer in
bad times.  Governments should also follow  Singapore ’s example in
setting up a national board that assesses how risks interact and
how to address them cost-effectively, the  World Bank  said in the
report.  The bank warns against bailouts except in cases where the
loss of an institution would devastate the overall economy.  When a crisis does happen, the poor tend to be affected
disproportionately and are less likely to recover, the report
said. The self-employment rate is more than 80 percent for sub-Saharan  Africa , and about 70 percent in  South Asia , meaning
these people’s incomes can collapse easily from a shock.  Rural Insurance  Rural populations often lack access to formal insurance
products that would help them spring back from illness, famine
or natural disaster, according to the report. They may be forced
to sell their productive assets in order to cope, making it even
harder to escape from poverty.  The link between insurance and poverty reduction caught the
attention of Mushfiq Mobarak, a development economist at  Yale
University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut . As part of his research in
 India , he designed and sold a contract that bases payouts on the
timing of rainfall.  Traditionally, Indian farmers had no choice but to form
groups that help each other as needed, he said. Because the
insurance companies are typically far from agricultural areas,
they couldn’t know if farmers actually faced bad conditions, or
if having insurance caused them to understate their yields.  Now it’s cheap enough for the insurance companies to
install weather monitors near the villages. The farmers get more
compensation the longer they go without rain. While the insurers
are freed from worrying about dishonesty, their new policy
holders feel safer about experimenting with different crops and
methods, Mobarak said.  More Varieties  “We found that once they get insurance, these people start
taking more risk. Specifically they switch to high-risk, high-return technologies and pursue more crop variety,” said
Mobarak, who observed about 5,000 Indian agricultural workers
and their reactions to being offered rainfall insurance.  The World Bank report coincides with its effort under Kim,
15 months into his presidency, to focus on larger-scale projects
and shift away from a risk-averse culture. Today’s report
“cautions that the greatest risk may be taking no risk at
all,” Kim wrote in the foreword. “I could not agree more,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Schenkel in  Washington  at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  