-- World Bank Cuts Developing East Asia GDP Forecasts
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-10-07T04:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/world-bank-cuts-developing-east-asia-growth-forecast-on-china.html
The  World Bank  lowered its forecasts
for East Asia’s developing nations this year and next, and said
the region must boost efforts to ensure financial stability
ahead of interest-rate increases in advanced economies.  Developing East Asia will probably expand 7.1 percent in
2013 and 7.2 percent in 2014, the Washington-based lender said
in a report today, down from April predictions of 7.8 percent
and 7.6 percent respectively.  China  may grow 7.5 percent in
2013, lower than an April forecast of 8.3 percent, it said.  “The risks to the global recovery from the uncertainty
surrounding the fiscal deadlock in the United States, the impact
of the withdrawal of monetary stimulus from the advanced
economies, an abrupt slowdown of investment in  China (CNGDPYOY) , and
unrests in the Middle-East remain prominent,” the World Bank
said in its East Asia and Pacific Economic Update today.  The  Asian Development Bank  cut its forecasts for emerging
Asia this year and next last week, as a slowdown in China and
India is compounded by concern that the  Federal Reserve ’s
impending reduction of its record stimulus will drive away
investors. The Fed last month said it wants more evidence of an
economic recovery before paring its $85 billion-a-month bond
buying program, surprising analysts who had predicted a $5
billion cut to purchases of Treasuries.  Rate Increases  The first partial U.S. government shutdown in 17 years as
 House Republicans  failed to agree on a budget with  Senate
Democrats  and President  Barack Obama  would probably shave 0.1
percentage point from growth if it lasts a week, according to a
Bloomberg survey, with the amount accelerating the longer the
closing lasts.  The U.S. Treasury’s cash balance will be depleted no later
than Oct. 31 and “possibly quite a bit sooner,” according to a
note dated Oct. 5 from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. In the event of
a missed principal or interest payment, there is a possibility
that fund redemptions might broadly increase due to investor
concern, prompting liquidation of Treasuries by money market
mutual funds, it said.  Policy makers in developing East Asia need to be ready to
respond to a steady increase in  interest rates  in advanced
economies, and step up their efforts to maintain financial
stability, the World Bank said today.  Market Volatility  “Some of the headwind will be coming from the
international economy, and that largely is the tapering of the
unconventional monetary policies especially in the Untied
States,” Bert Hofman, the World Bank’s chief economist for East
Asia and Pacific, told reporters in Singapore. “It will mean an
increase of global interest rates for which countries would need
to prepare. And they need to prepare for potential financial
market volatility in the process.”  The largest developing nations for the first time have the
worst market opportunities as optimism for stronger growth
shifts to the U.S. and Europe, according to a Bloomberg Global
Poll last month. India fared the poorest, followed by Brazil,
Russia and China, a worldwide poll of investors, analysts and
traders who are Bloomberg subscribers showed.  Japan’s new strategy to revive growth, also known as
Abenomics, could increase Japanese investment in the region and
offset the impact of tapering on capital inflows in the region,
the World Bank said.  China’s economy  slowed last quarter as growth in
manufacturing and transportation weakened, and increases in
business-investment and real estate revenue eased, a survey by
New York-based China Beige Book International showed last month.  Policy Buffers  While investment growth is moderating in economies such as
Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia, consumption and resilient
remittances helped boost the  Philippines  in the first half of
the year, the World Bank said. Excluding China, the region may
grow 5.2 percent in 2013 and 5.3 percent in 2014, it said.  “Reducing reliance on short term and foreign currency
denominated debt, accepting a weaker  exchange rate  when growth
is below potential, and building policy buffers to respond to
changing global liquidity conditions are some of the ways that
can help countries be prepared,” Hofman said.  The region covered in the bank’s report includes China,
Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia,
Laos, Mongolia, Myanmar, Timor-Leste, Fiji,  Papua New Guinea ,
 Solomon Islands  and other island economies in the Pacific.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  