-- WTI Oil Trades Near Week’s Low Before Stockpile Data
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-10-08T12:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/wti-oil-trades-near-week-low-as-crude-stockpiles-seen-rising.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
advanced from a four-day low amid speculation that the partial
U.S. government shutdown will be resolved without curbing fuel
demand in the world’s largest oil user.  Futures gained as much as 0.9 percent. U.S. lawmakers began
taking the first tentative steps toward a path to raising the
government’s debt limit even as the rhetoric between President
 Barack Obama  and Republican leaders grew more divisive. U.S.
 crude inventories  probably rose a third week, adding 1.6 million
barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey before a
government report tomorrow.  “Looking at the actual effects, it’s very limited” for
the oil market, Hans van Cleef, an energy economist at ABN Amro
Bank NV in Amsterdam, said of the halt in some U.S. public
services. “If it takes longer, it could have some effect as
closed offices don’t need heating, and if it hurts the economy
that will have a demand effect. But that will take several
weeks.”  WTI for November delivery rose as much as 91 cents to
$103.94 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange, and traded for $103.49 at 1:42 p.m. London
time. The contract slipped 81 cents to $103.03 yesterday, the
lowest settlement since Oct. 1. The volume of all futures traded
was about 30 percent below the 100-day average.  Brent for November settlement rose 54 cents to $110.22 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark was at a premium of $6.70 to WTI, compared
with $6.65 yesterday.  Dated Brent  Daily exports of North Sea Brent, Forties, Oseberg and
Ekofisk crudes, which make up the Dated Brent benchmark, will
jump in November to the most in 21 months, loading programs
obtained by Bloomberg News show.  Shipments will average 980,000 barrels a day, up 10 percent
from a revised 890,323 barrels in October, according to the
plans. Dated Brent is used to price more than half of the
world’s crude.  U.S.  gasoline supplies  probably rose by 1 million barrels
last week, according to the median estimate of nine analysts in
the Bloomberg survey before figures from the Energy Information
Administration. Distillate inventories, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, are projected to decrease by 1.4
million, the survey shows.  Shuttered Government  The industry-funded American Petroleum Institute in
 Washington  is scheduled to release separate inventory data
today. The API collects supply information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly survey.  Many U.S. government services have been shuttered for a
week after a budget impasse, and the country is nine days away
from running out of borrowing authority. Republicans are
insisting on changing the 2010 Affordable Care Act, while Obama
refuses to engage in discussions about policy conditions tied to
opening the government or raising the debt limit.  Senate Democrats are planning a test vote before the end of
this week on a measure that would grant Obama authority to raise
the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling, probably for a year unless two-thirds of both chambers of Congress disapprove. If all Senate
Democrats along with six Republicans vote for giving Obama
authority, they could send a debt-limit increase without policy
conditions to the Republican-controlled House with only a few
days to spare before U.S. borrowing authority lapses Oct. 17.  The U.S., the world’s largest user of crude, will account
for 21 percent of global oil consumption this year, according to
the International Energy Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  