-- Dollar Gains as Haven Demand Increases Amid U.S. Deadlock
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-10-08T21:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/yen-reaches-eight-week-high-versus-dollar-as-obama-refuses-talks.html
The dollar rose against 13 of its 16
most-traded peers as a U.S. political stalemate persisted and
President  Barack Obama  warned the nation faces a “very deep
recession” if Congress doesn’t raise the debt limit, fueling
haven demand.  The yen fell from an eight-week high versus the dollar
after Japan’s current-account surplus unexpectedly shrank to a
record for an August. The Japanese currency failed to maintain a
breach of its 200-day moving average versus the dollar,
signaling further weakness. The franc pared a loss versus the
euro as the Swiss National Bank said it hasn’t intervened in
currency markets for more than a year. The rand rose.  “It feels like a risk-off situation, which is benefiting
the dollar,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said in a phone interview.
“Most market participants are not expecting a quick resolution
to the fiscal issues.”  The dollar increased 0.2 percent to 96.88 yen at 5 p.m. New
York time after gaining as much as 0.6 percent earlier. The
greenback was little changed at $1.3573 per euro after rising
0.2 percent earlier. The 17-nation currency appreciated 0.1
percent to 131.49 yen.  The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index fell to as low as
8.68 percent, the least since May 9, before trading at 8.73. The
2013 average is 9.37 percent.  Zloty, Rand  Poland’s zloty increased versus most of its major
counterparts as the International Monetary Fund upgraded the
forecast for the country’s 2014 gross domestic product to 2.4
percent, from 2.25 percent. The currency appreciated 0.1 percent
to 4.1965 per euro. It gained as much as 0.5 percent to 3.0776
per dollar before trading little changed at 3.0918.  South Africa’s currency climbed to an almost two-week high
versus the dollar as stock-exchange data showed overseas
investors  boosted their holdings  of the nation’s bonds by 592
million rand ($59.5 million) yesterday, a third day of inflows.  Foreign funds have bought 1.2 billion rand of the nation’s
debt since a partial shutdown of the U.S. government began last
week. South Africa depends on portfolio inflows to plug its
current-account deficit and support the rand.  “One reason for the rand’s resilience remains the strong
portfolio inflows,” John Cairns, a currency strategist at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in a note to clients.
Foreign bond and equity purchases since the start of the
shutdown are “equivalent to a monthly rate of around 10 billion
rand, which is good but not brilliant” he said.  The rand gained as much as 0.9 percent to 9.9164 per
dollar, the strongest level since Sept. 25, before trading at
9.9970, up less than 0.1 percent.  Swiss Franc  The Swiss currency trimmed a decline against the euro after
SNB President Thomas Jordan said the central bank hasn’t had to
intervene in currency markets to protect its franc ceiling for
more than a year. The franc fell as much as 0.3 percent to
1.2295 per euro before trading at 1.2269. It gained 0.3 percent
yesterday.  The partial shutdown of the U.S. government entered its
second week, with congressional leaders saying the other party
must move first. U.S. borrowing authority runs out Oct. 17 and
the nation will have about $30 billion in cash after that. It
would be unable to pay all of its bills sometime between Oct. 22
and Oct. 31, according to the Congressional Budget Office.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said the Republican-controlled House should vote to end the shutdown and drop
demands to change the health-care law, and House Speaker John
Boehner said Reid and Obama should negotiate.  Obama Offer  Speaking at a news conference at the White House, Obama
said he’s willing to talk to Republicans about anything,
including changes to his health-care law, once lawmakers end the
shutdown and raise the debt ceiling. He refuses to engage in
discussions about tying policy considerations to opening the
government or increasing the limit.  The yen gained beyond its 200-day moving average versus the
greenback yesterday for the first time since November. The
technical indicator, which some currency traders see as a
potential turning point, was at 96.68 yesterday.  “You have a 200-day moving average that’s acting as a
support level, which, if it can hold, means that the yen will
weaken,” Douglas Borthwick, the head of foreign exchange at
Chapdelaine & Co. in New York, said in a phone interview. “It’s
very key in terms of who’s going to win the currency-weakness
war.” Support, in this case for the U.S. dollar, is a chart
level where buy orders may be clustered.  Yen Forecasts  The yen may strengthen to 95 per dollar by year-end as
attention shifts to when the Fed will reduce its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases and  Japan  refrains from announcing new
monetary stimulus, according to Anezka Christovova, a foreign-exchange strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  London . Japan’s
currency will end 2013 at 101 per dollar, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Japan had a 161.5 billion-yen ($1.7 billion) surplus in its
 current account , the Ministry of Finance said in  Tokyo . A
Bloomberg News poll forecast an excess of 520 billion yen.  The yen has tumbled 9.4 percent this year, the worst
performer of 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has gained 2.5 percent,
and the euro has risen 5.8 percent.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $28 billion, from $21 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen exchange rate amounted to $5.5 billion, the largest share of
trades at 20 percent. Options on the greenback-Chinese-yuan rate
totaled $3.7 billion, or 13 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 36 percent more than the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yuan options trading was
21 percent above average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  