-- Zambia Woos U.S. Investors With Bank to Beef Depositary Receipts
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-10-07T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/zambia-woos-u-s-investors-with-bank-to-beef-depositary-receipts.html
Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. is
selling American depositary receipts for three Zambian companies
as U.S. investors tap growth in  Africa ’s biggest copper
producer.  The ADR programs established last month for Copperbelt
Energy Corp., Zambeef Products Plc and  Zambia  National
Commercial Bank Plc are the first in southern Africa outside
South Africa, according to New York-based BNY Mellon, the
world’s biggest issuer of the receipts.  “Investors recognize the fact that Africa is really the
last substantial continent to offer genuine frontier markets
with very real growth prospects,” said Mary Gormley, the bank’s
London-based managing director of depositary receipts for sub-Saharan Africa.  Southern Africa is the world’s fastest growing region after
developing  Asia  with the International Monetary Fund forecasting
Zambia’s economy will expand 6 percent this year. While the ADRs
raise the profile of local companies, with  BNY Mellon  reporting
interest from  emerging market  funds, the securities risk
draining liquidity from the stock market in the Zambian capital,
Lusaka, said Caesar Siwale, chief executive officer of Pangea
Securities Ltd. in the city.  “It’s a very positive thing for Zambia and it’s an
affirmation of the good fundamentals,” Siwale said yesterday in
an interview from Lusaka. “But, it will probably end up making
the liquidity situation on the local market worse.”  Unsponsored ADRs  Because the three ADRs are unsponsored, which means the
programs aren’t backed by the companies, they will tie up blocks
of shares that can no longer be traded in Lusaka, said Charles
Mate, managing director of Stockbrokers Zambia Ltd. It would be
better if the companies established sponsored ADRs, involving
the sale of new shares to U.S. investors, he said.  That “creates a win-win situation all round,” said Mate.
“The current arrangement is not going to be liquidity-enhancing
for the Lusaka stock exchange.”  Zambia’s all-share index has advanced 28 percent this year,
outpacing a 15 percent gain in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
over the same period. Zambeef, which produces beef, poultry and
cooking oil, and owns its own retail stores, has climbed 17
percent, while Zambia National Commercial Bank has surged 39
percent. Copperbelt Energy, the biggest supplier of power to
mines in Zambia, has declined 0.2 percent.  While ADRs offer U.S. investors the opportunity to profit
from growth in countries such as Zambia, they also benefit local
stock markets and share prices, according to a BNY Mellon-sponsored study in 2008 by U.K.-based Oxford Metrica. Liquidity
on home markets for a listed ADR increases by an average 32
percent,  the study  found.  More Attractive  “What we hope with the depositary receipts, and the next
thing really for us, is to encourage the issuers to sponsor them
which tends to help make them more attractive and more liquid,”
said Gormley, adding that access to U.S. investors will over
time create additional liquidity.  BNY Mellon has approached all three Zambian companies about
the possibility of sponsored ADRs, she said.  South Africa  has 90 listed depositary receipts, of which 60
are sponsored, Gormley said by phone from  London  on Oct. 3.
International investors have asked BNY Mellon to establish ADRs
for other countries, including Namibia and Botswana, she said.  “For many years now, given the limited opportunities on
their own doorstep, they’ve been looking at  emerging markets  and
for the last couple of years they have begun to zone in on
Africa,” Gormley said. “We expect to see the ADR story develop
throughout Africa as international investors’ cash follows their
interest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  