-- Zimbabwe’s Biggest Miners’ Union Wants Wages as Much as Doubled
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-10-07T11:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/zimbabwe-s-biggest-miners-union-wants-wages-as-much-as-doubled.html
A Zimbabwean labor union that is the
biggest representative of workers at gold and platinum mines
said it would would ask employers to as much as double pay for
some members.  The smallest increase sought is 50 percent, the Associated
Mine Workers Union of Zimbabwe said in a wage-talks circular
seen by Bloomberg News today and dated Oct. 1. Negotiations
start in the first week of November. The country’s annual
inflation rate was 1.3 percent in August.  Demands for higher wages from operators including Anglo
American Platinum Ltd. and  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the
biggest producers of the metal that have operations in the
southern African nation, come amid a drop in commodity prices
and pressure for the companies to cede a majority share of their
local assets to black Zimbabweans or the government. The country
has the world’s biggest platinum and chrome reserves after South
Africa, as well as diamond, gold and coal deposits.  “All sectors in the industry are fast losing patience and
they want their salaries raised,” Amwuz President Tinago Ruzive
said in an interview in Harare, the capital. “Employers in the
gold sector are saying they are not making money, but our
members are saying enough is enough, they can’t subsidize the
employers any more.”  The lowest-paid miners in  Zimbabwe  get basic wages of $227
monthly, Ruzive said. The union wants salaries to be increased
to $560 a month for those in the gold and chrome industries. It
is demanding a raise to $1,000 from $500 to $600 monthly for
diamond-mine employees, and wants platinum-industry workers to
get an increase of as much as 50 percent from $400-$500 now.
Amwuz represents 20,000 people, Ruzive said.  “If things don’t improve, we will have another Marikana
here,” he said, referring to a 2012 strike at the Lonmin Plc
mine in South Africa turned violent and resulted in the deaths
of at least 44 workers, including 34 killed by police on Aug.
16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  