-- Zimbabwe Stocks on Best Streak in Year on Policy Signals
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-10-08T13:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-07/zimbabwe-s-main-equities-gauge-gains-in-longest-streak-in-a-year.html
Zimbabwe’s benchmark stocks index
rose for a 16th day, its longest winning streak in a year, as
investors speculated President  Robert Mugabe ’s government will
put in place policies supportive of economic growth.  The 73-member Zimbabwe Industrial Index rose 0.2 percent to
210.23 today, extending gains since Sept. 17 to 12 percent.
Pelhams Ltd., a furniture credit-retailer, is leading the
advance on the gauge with a 50 percent increase since the rally
started. Econet Wireless Zimbabwe Ltd., a mobile-phone operator,
has jumped 20 percent.  The  gauge  slumped to an eight-month low on Sept. 5, falling
24 percent after reaching its highest level in more than four
years on Aug. 1. Mugabe, 89, won elections in July to extend his
33-year rule with threats to seize control of mines and banks
from foreign and white investors and give them to black citizens
and the government.  Zimbabwe  will stick with an International
Monetary Fund program started in June that may help the country
clear debts and restore the economy, Reuters reported Oct. 6,
citing Finance Minister Patrick Chinamasa.  “The signs have been reasonably positive,” Brian Mugabe,
an analyst at Imara SP Reid (Pty) Ltd., said by phone from
Johannesburg yesterday. “The government has put measures in
place that would take the country forward. It also said it will
keep on engaging with industry on harmonizing of the
indigenization program for what is best to industry.”  Foreign Demand  Zimbabwe’s economy will expand 5 percent in 2013 and 5.7
percent in 2014, according to the  IMF . The southern African
nation holds the world’s second-biggest platinum and chrome
reserves after  South Africa , as well as diamond, gold,  iron ore 
and coal deposits.  Foreign demand for equities is strong and a primary driver
of the rally, Mike Barnes, the Johannesburg-based managing
director of Securities Africa, a brokerage, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. After the post-election sell-off, many
stocks became attractive to both local and foreign investors, he
said.  The industrial index’s 14-day  relative strength index  rose
to 80 today, the fifth day it traded above the level of 70 that
indicates to some technical traders a measure is overbought.  There is “no sign that the rally will stop as demand
remains strong across most stocks,” Barnes said. “It is
perhaps a wasted opportunity.”  Zimbabwe emerged from almost a decade of recession when the
government in 2009 permitted the use of the  U.S. dollar  and
other currencies including the South African rand, after the
local currency’s devaluation drove inflation to what the IMF
estimated was 500 billion percent. Agriculture was decimated in
the one-time grain exporter after the violent seizure of white-owned commercial farms began in 2000. Inflation may average 4.5
percent this year, according to the IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  