-- 
`Draconian’ Defense Cuts in Debt Deal Tough Target for Deficit Committee

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-02T05:12:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/-draconian-defense-cuts-are-tough-target-for-deficit-panel.html
Under the deficit-cutting measure
Congress is considering, the Pentagon could face $825 billion in
cuts over 10 years, a reduction seen as unsupportable by people
familiar with Defense Department challenges.  The Pentagon initially could see at least $325 billion in
curtailed spending over the decade starting in fiscal 2012 under
the agreement, according to an administration official. That’s
within a range that President  Barack Obama  already proposed over
12 years.  It’s the possible second round of budget-cutting the
legislation triggers which could prove more disruptive for
defense. A special congressional committee would be charged with
finding another $1.5 trillion in overall deficit savings by late
November balanced between defense and other spending.  If the committee took no action by November, the deal would
trigger an automatic cut of an additional $500 billion from
defense spending, according to a White House fact sheet.  “The problem is that it’s a mechanism that doesn’t leave a
lot of wiggle room,” said  Byron Callan , director for defense
policy at Capital Alpha Partners LLC. “You set this thing up so
that if you have this much trouble agreeing on a set of cuts”
now “why should it be any easier as you get to November or
December, regardless what the special committee does?”  The plan “dangles a Sword of Damocles over our national
security later this year when further cuts would be triggered
unless another compromise is reached,” Aerospace Industries
Association President Marion Blakely said in a statement. “The
cuts to defense proposed in the ‘trigger’ deal are so draconian
that it’s hard to believe they are even on the table.”  ‘Deep Reservations’  The chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, said he supported the compromise with “deep
reservations.”  The House approved the deal 269-161 yesterday. The Senate
plans a vote on the measure at noon Washington time today.  “There is no scenario in the second phase of this proposal
that does not turn a debt crisis into a national security
crisis,” McKeon, a California Republican, said in a statement.
“Defense cannot sustain any additional cuts either from the
joint committee or the sequestration trigger.”  The cuts, if carried out, could be the “beginning of the
end of America as a great international power,” said Senator
 Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent. U.S. military power
“has undergirded our prosperity and so much of the prosperity
in the world,” he said.  McCain Concerned  Republican Senator  John McCain  of Arizona said in a CNN
interview yesterday, “I am worried about the size of the
defense cuts that may be contemplated, but that doesn’t mean I’m
rejecting the agreement.”  Callan said he didn’t see a “net change” for the defense
industry since most company shares reflect a view that military
spending cuts might be as high as $800 billion over 10 years.  Michael O’Hanlon , a Brookings Institution defense analyst
agreed with McKeon, saying about the potential for cuts of more
than $800 billion: “I can see how to do cuts half that size or
two-thirds, not more.”  While there is waste and duplication in the budget, there
isn’t enough slack in the system for sustained cuts over a
decade,   MacKenzie Eaglen , a defense analyst for the  Heritage
Foundation , said in an e-mail.  Not Much Give  “There just isn’t a lot of ‘give’ left right now,” she
said. “This is a budget that funds all defense intelligence
activities, pays three million people and is supposed to
innovate and fund future capabilities.”  Still, the scale of the cuts isn’t unprecedented, said
 Gordon Adams , an American University professor who oversaw
national security budgeting at the Office of Management and
Budget under President  Bill Clinton .  “We have done it before and we can do it again,” he said.
The potential $825 billion “is 12 percent of the currently
projected defense budgets totaling $6.7 trillion over the next
decade; not an impossible task, properly managed.”  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Aerospace & Defense
Index fell less than 1 percent.  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB) ,  L-3
Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) , and Hungtington Ingalls Industries
Inc. were among defense companies in the 29-member index whose
shares fell the most. The index includes defense and commercial
aerospace companies.  The agreement that congressional leaders and Obama are
asking Congress to approve calls for $350 billion in “defense”
cuts as part of the first installment, under a larger category
that includes the Energy Department and smaller agencies
allocated defense dollars. How cuts are divided among accounts
is up to Congress’s budget-writers, the official said.  Months of Struggle  This is part of $420 billion in overall “security
spending” cuts contained in the compromise that capped a
months-long struggle between Obama and Republicans over raising
the $14.3 trillion U.S. debt ceiling.  None of this takes into account the money that will be
saved from planned drawdowns of troops in Iraq and  Afghanistan ,
the official said. Critics of an attempt by Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  to count those savings in his original
proposal dismissed that as a “gimmick,” while the
 Congressional Budget Office  counted those savings in reviewing
Reid’s plan.  That $420 billion in “security” spending takes the place
of $400 billion in security spending cutsObama proposed in
April as a part of budgets covering 12 years, the official said.  The initial cuts would take place starting with the
Pentagon’s pending fiscal 2012 request, the official said.  Base Budget Request  The House has passed its version of the 2012 authorizing
and appropriations bills. The House appropriations version
already cut $9 billion from the base budget request.  The Senate hasn’t voted on its respective versions, the
official said, unsure what mechanism would be employed to
include the additional cuts.  The additional 2012 reduction would likely take place
before the Pentagon completes a comprehensive review of
strategy, roles and missions intended to lay out the options and
risks of meeting Obama’s $400 billion objective.  Asked to provide perspective on what a $400 billion
reduction over 12 years looks like, the Pentagon comptroller
said last month that it constituted about 5 percent of a roughly
$7.6 trillion projection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  