-- 
T-Mobile USA Defections Distract Obermann’s Turnaround Plan

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-08-03T08:16:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/t-mobile-usa-defections-distract-deutsche-telekom-ceo-s-europe-turnaround.html
As  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  Chief
Executive Officer Rene Obermann strives to return the company’s
European business to growth, the U.S. wireless unit he agreed to
sell to  AT&T Inc. (T)  for $39 billion is being left behind.  T-Mobile USA’s net loss of contract customers may have
reached 350,000 last quarter, UniCredit SpA analyst Thomas Friedrich estimates. That would bring losses since the final
quarter of 2010 to more than 1 million, cutting the operator’s
contract-user base to 25.6 million. Adjusted earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization may have dropped
14 percent to $1.4 billion, the average of 10 estimates shows.  The March 20 deal to sell T-Mobile USA faces opposition
from some U.S. lawmakers, who say the creation of the largest
U.S. wireless operator would increase fees and stifle
competition. T-Mobile, already losing customers because it
doesn’t carry Apple Inc.’s iPhone, risks further defections
after it dropped plans to build a faster network based on
technology used by rivals including Verizon Wireless.  “It doesn’t help if you want to focus on  Europe  and the
U.S. market is still there and you can’t get rid of it, and you
have to devote management time on it,” said Leon Cappaert, who
helps manage 400 million euros ($570 million) at KBC Asset
Management in Brussels, including Deutsche Telekom shares.  ‘Discontinued’  The stock declined as much as 1.2 percent to 10.23 euros
and was 0.1 percent lower as of 10:08 a.m. in Frankfurt. Before
today, it had gained about 7 percent this year, the fifth-best
performance on the 21-company Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication
Services Index, which dropped 6.2 percent. Dallas-based AT&T
fell 34 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $29.18 in New York yesterday
and is little changed this year.  Since the first quarter, Deutsche Telekom has separated T-
Mobile USA as “discontinued operations” in its earnings
reports. The Bellevue, Washington-based unit accounted for 26
percent of Deutsche Telekom’s revenue in 2010. Europe’s largest
phone company may tomorrow say Ebitda adjusted for some items
fell 3 percent to 3.78 billion euros in the second quarter as
revenue slid in countries such as Romania and  Croatia , according
to the median of 17 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Some board members are of the view that Obermann, 48,
should do more to ensure the U.S. business remains competitive
given the risks around the lengthy regulatory review of the
deal, according to two people familiar the matter, who asked not
to be identified because the discussions aren’t public.  Stopped the Clock  Philipp Kornstaedt, a Deutsche Telekom spokesman, declined
to comment on U.S. customers and earnings. The company is
scheduled to hold a press conference tomorrow at its
headquarters in Bonn at 10 a.m. to discuss quarterly results.  The Federal Communications Commission, which is reviewing
the deal along with the U.S. Justice Department, on July 20
stopped the clock on its 180-day informal timeline for its
analysis to evaluate new economic models presented by AT&T.  Senators including Democrat  Al Franken  and  Herb Kohl  have
spoken out against the deal, and  California  has opened its own
inquiry into the transaction.  In a letter to regulators yesterday,  Lamar Smith , the
chairman of the U.S. House of Representatives Judiciary
Committee, said the transaction has benefits and there’s “at
least as much evidence” in support of the deal as against it.  As recently as the May 12 shareholder meeting, Obermann
said he was “confident” that the sale would be completed in
the first half of 2012.  ‘Structural Problem’  There’s a 70 percent to 80 percent probability that the
deal will eventually win approval, Saeed Baradar, a
telecommunications sales specialist at  Societe Generale  in
 London , wrote in a note yesterday. Closing the sale of this
“structural problem” may send Deutsche Telekom’s shares as
much as 15 percent higher, he estimated.  Should regulators reject the transaction, AT&T would pay
Deutsche Telekom $3 billion in cash. It would also provide T-
Mobile USA with wireless spectrum in some regions and reduced
charges for calls into AT&T’s network, for a total package
valued at as much as $7 billion, according to Kornstaedt.  Still, with customers already wary of signing contracts
amid unclear ownership of the brand,  T-Mobile USA  isn’t doing
enough to retain them with popular devices and new marketing
initiatives, said Courtney Munroe, an analyst at Framingham,
Massachusetts-based IDC.  Market Share Loss  T-Mobile “is not as edgy as they used to be,” he said.
“AT&T has been very aggressive. Verizon has done surprisingly
well. Sprint arrested its downward spiral. They’ve gotten good
devices. The competition has gotten very stiff.”  Verizon, AT&T and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  all increased their
share of the U.S. wireless subscription market in the second
quarter, according to data from IDC, which doesn’t have an
estimate for second-quarter figures for T-Mobile. In the first
quarter, T-Mobile’s share shrank 0.4 percentage point to 10
percent, the researcher said.  The median estimate for T-Mobile USA's contract-customer 
losses in the second quarter was 200,000, according a Bloomberg 
survey among eight analysts.  Last week, RadioShack Corp. said it will no longer carry T-
Mobile USA products from Sept. 15 and will instead sell  Verizon
Wireless  offerings. While that will cut by half T-Mobile’s U.S.
sales points from about 8,500, new deals will return the number
of outlets to at least to the previous level, Kornstaedt said.
Yesterday, T-Mobile USA said it started distributing prepaid
handsets at 7-Eleven Inc. stores nationwide.  ‘Draw a Line’  T-Mobile USA’s outlays on infrastructure probably declined
because of the merger limbo, says  Matt Thornton , an analyst at
Avian Securities LLC. First-quarter cash capital expenditure was
$749 million, compared with $828 million in the fourth quarter
of 2010 on lower network spending.  At home, Obermann has vowed to return the European division
excluding  Germany  to growth by 2013. He needs to win back
customers from  Greece  to  Hungary  and cut expenses amid the
European sovereign-debt crisis.  “Deutsche Telekom has drawn a line under this one,” Dirk Springer, who manages 1.6 billion euros at Joh. Berenberg
Gossler & Co. in Hamburg including Deutsche Telekom shares, said
of T-Mobile USA. The U.S. “is going to remain really tough, and
it’s important that the approval process goes smoothly because
the management has so many other battlegrounds to fight on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  