-- 
Accused Arms Dealer Viktor Bout Loses Bid to Have U.S. Charges Dismissed

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-02T16:34:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/accused-arms-dealer-viktor-bout-loses-bid-to-have-u-s-charges-dismissed.html
Viktor Bout , who is accused of
conspiring to sell weapons to a Colombian terrorist group, lost
a second bid to have the charges thrown out.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in Manhattan today
rejected Bout’s arguments that the U.S. unfairly targeted him
for prosecution and illegally extradited him from  Thailand . Last
month, Scheindlin rejected Bout’s attempt to have the case
dismissed on jurisdictional grounds.  Bout was arrested in 2008 in Bangkok by U.S.  Drug
Enforcement Administration  agents in a sting operation. The
government said undercover agents told Bout they were buying
weapons for the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or  FARC, 
including surface-to-air missiles, armor-piercing rocket
launchers and machine guns.  Bout, a Russian citizen, argued in court papers that he was
“vindictively targeted for prosecution” because the U.S.
Defense Department was allegedly embarrassed by reports in 2006
that companies Bout controlled were supplying U.S. armed forces
in  Iraq .  “I am now looking forward to trial in October, where I’m
confident it will become clear that this was a completely DEA-
created sting and that Mr. Bout never intended to transport arms
to them,” Bout’s lawyer, Albert Dayan said.  FARC, classified as a terrorist organization by the U.S.
and the European Union, was founded in 1964 as a rural, peasant
Marxist insurgency. The group traffics cocaine to fund its
activities and stages kidnappings for ransom, according to the
U.S. government.  The case is U.S. v. Bout, 08-cr-0365, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  Manhattan  federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  