-- 
Aeromexico, Boeing Conduct First Biofuel Transcontinental Flight

-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-08-02T18:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/aeromexico-boeing-conduct-first-biofuel-transcontinental-flight.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  said one of its aircraft
owned by Aeromexico conducted the first commercial
transcontinental flight powered by a biofuel, arriving in Madrid
from Mexico City this afternoon.  The 777-200ER aircraft owned by Grupo Aeromexico SAB de CV
lasted 11 hours and transported more than 250 passengers with
the support of the Mexican government. The plane used as much as
30 percent biofuel from the jatropha curcas oilseed plant, mixed
in with traditional kerosene, according to a statement from
Boeing.  It was the first commercial transatlantic flight to use
biofuel, said Terrance Scott, a spokesman for Boeing in Seattle,
said by telephone. The fuel was provided by Boeing and ASA, the
Airports and Auxiliary Services.  “The flight was a success, and Boeing was very happy to
partner with Aeromexico and the government of  Mexico  to achieve
this significant milestone,” said Van Rex Gallard, vice
president of sales for  Latin America ,  Africa  and the Caribbean
at Boeing Commercial Airplanes.  Last month ABC Aerolineas SA de CV, a Mexican airline known
as Interjet, operated the country’s first commercial flight on
biofuel. The Interjet flight was the first commercial flight in
the Americas to be powered by biofuel, the company said in a
statement on its website.  Airlines on July 1 won approval from ASTM International,
the U.S. technical standards body, to fly passenger planes using
fuel made from inedible plants and organic waste mixed with
petroleum-derived fuel. Approval allows for blends of up to 50
percent biofuel. Since then, airlines including Air France-KLM
Group and  Finnair Oyj (FIA1S)  have flown planes using such blends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 Klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  