-- 
Agnes Varis, Pharma Mogul, Music Champion, Pet Patron Dies at 81

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-08-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/agnes-varis-pharma-mogul-music-champion-pet-patron-dies-appreciation.html
Anyone who loves jazz, opera and cats
was sad to hear that philanthropist and chemist Agnes Varis died
on Friday at her home in  New York .  Varis, who was 81, also had a soft spot for old people and
poor people -- often the same -- and spread happiness by using
the vast wealth she piled up making generic drugs.  “I like things. But once you have the stuff, it is time to
start doing good,” she told me last February.  With us at lunch that day was conductor Eve Queler, a
beloved music fixture in New York for her opera concerts
showcasing big names in amusingly off-beat repertoire, works
like “Rienzi,” Wagner’s hideous piece about a deranged
medieval Roman who loves his sister.  Varis had saved Queler’s scrappy outfit with a $250,000
check. Since she’d never applied for a grant, Queler said she
was still recovering from the shock several months later.  That was so refreshing about Varis. She didn’t bother with
a foundation and those lengthy grant proposals that turn
applicants into raging alcoholics. She just wrote checks for
causes important to her heart.  Unbeknownst to Queler, Varis and her husband, Karl
Leichtman, had enjoyed a few Opera Orchestra concerts before his
death in 2009. She was saying thanks for the memories.  Varis so missed Leichtman, an audiophile with a set of
$80,000 speakers, that she buried his ashes within a replica.  Beverly Sills  We also talked a lot about Beverly Sills, the American
soprano, manager and talk show deity. Varis “blamed” Sills for
getting her interested in the  Metropolitan Opera , where the diva
presided in her last years as chairman of the board.  Both were  Brooklyn  girls who never bothered to high style
their English. Both had big brains. “Boy, was she smart!” said
Varis. “I never saw anyone read a financial statement the way
she could.”  Starting in 2007, Varis underwrote cheap orchestra seats at
the Met for certain shows and made sure that seniors didn’t have
to line up for them. She wanted everyone to enter the palace.  “What is it about our society that makes us so uncaring
about older people?” was a refrain throughout lunch, which
continued over several hours.  Varis said she wasn’t all that interested in the “fancy
folk” who tended to drift to cultural boards, but she thought
it was good to set an example.  That was another luncheon leitmotif -- being a role model
for women. “‘You gotta get yourself noticed!”  “You gotta stand out,” she continued. “Women need to see
other women who have money, and realize they, too, can have
money and then give it away.”  My Mercedes  She grumped at the memory of a male colleague who had
doubted she would triumph in the pill business on her own.  “I made my first million within two years and bought a red
Mercedes. And I made sure he saw me when I drove up to a
conference,” she remembered some 40 years later.  Varis was 39 years old when she started building  Agvar
Chemicals  Inc., which remained privately held with her as
president and founder. Eventually, she dropped the Mercedes and
ascended into a $300,000 Bentley (“nicer than the Queen’s”)
for daily tours of her drug kingdom in Little Falls,  New Jersey .  Her success gave her great pleasure. The daughter of Greek
immigrants, Agnes was the only one of eight children to go to
college. Her father scraped by as a greengrocer in Brooklyn; her
mother was illiterate.  After a chemistry degree at Brooklyn College, she went on
to New York University’s Stern School of Business.  Tufts
University  gave her an honorary doctorate, and, thanks to her,
veterinary students there relax in the  Agnes Varis Campus
Center .  “It is important to have your name up,” she adds. “Not
for ego. But so others know we women can do it.”  Cancer  Every check was written with thought and compassion. “I
just reached for a  credit card  when my cat got cancer and four
days cost me $10,000. Others can’t do that.” She set up two
funds named after cats Zeus and Kallee to assist humans facing
catastrophic vet bills.  Varis was recovering from  brain cancer  when we lunched.
That, too, inspired her to help others. She sponsored a weekly
“beauty day” to lift the spirits of less fortunate women who
could not afford her stylist and grand assortment of wigs.  Eve Queler informed me of her death. She will be one of so
many to mourn her as life goes on. For  Jazz at Lincoln Center ,
her $3 million dollar gift in 2010 provided a wondrous boost at
a time when fickle corporate sponsors had dropped out. Varis
loved jazz and supported a program to help older musicians
through the  Jazz Foundation .  And from her apartment on Central Park South, she welcomed
a steady flow of women entering the corporate world. They asked
the pharma queen for ‘Agvice’ and she was happy to give it.  To read the March interview, click  here .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. All opinions are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke   jburke21@bloomberg.net . 