-- 
Mall Owners Harness Technology as Web Makes Tenants Pickier

-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l   a n d   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-08-03T14:03:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/mall-owners-harness-technology-as-internet-makes-tenants-picky.html
The  world’s largest mall owners  are
harnessing digital technology to stem an erosion in their tenant
base by online retailing and keep shoppers coming.  London-based  Hammerson Plc  plans to use software that
tracks visitors to its malls using the signal from their mobile
phones. Australia’s  Westfield Group Ltd.  has set up a virtual
mall and landlords  Simon Property Group Inc.  of Indianapolis and
Paris-based  Unibail-Rodamco SE , are encouraging shoppers to add
new and more sophisticated smartphone applications.  “The big beasts of the jungle are showing that they are
alive, ready and willing to embrace these trends,” said  Joshua Bamfield , director of Newark, England-based  Centre for Retail
Research . For some town-center shopping streets and smaller
retail centers, “it’s another nail in the coffin.”  Online shopping is helping retailers reach their customers
with fewer stores, making them pickier about the amount of space
they lease and where shops are located. Mall landlords, seeking
to grow rental income and raise property values, are using
technology to attract more visitors and track the habits and
movements of shoppers to better meet the needs of their
increasingly selective tenants.  Global spending online rose more than fourfold to 591
billion euros ($855 billion) in the decade through 2010, trade
organization  Interactive Media in Retail Group  said.  Forrester
Research Inc. , a technology and market research company,
predicts internet retail sales will increase by at least 10
percent annually through 2015 in Western Europe and the U.S.,
with even faster growth in the Asia-Pacific region.  Limited Advantage  New mobile technology won’t necessarily give big malls an
insurmountable advantage, said Patrik Karrberg, a researcher at
the London School of Economics’  Information Systems Innovation
Group.   “These applications are pretty simple to create” and have
allowed independent artists in music and entertainment to
compete successfully using social media, he said. Similarly,
independent retailers can drive sales by signing up to services
like Groupon Inc.’s online coupon program.  The rise of web shopping means that going to a store will
become a leisure activity or a quick visit for a last-minute
purchase,  Gerard Groener , chief executive officer of  Corio NV ,
said in an interview. That’s pushing landlords to make malls
more compelling or closer to transportation hubs, he said.  Corio, the Netherlands-based owner of 45 malls in six
countries, plans to create a club membership with smartphone
applications to compile a database of consumer spending that it
may go on to sell as a service, Groener said in an interview.  Fewer Stores  Retailers need about 90 stores to sell to half of Britain’s
population today, compared with 200 in 1971, said Jonathan de
Mello, head of European retail at CB Richard Ellis Group Inc.
The growth in online retailing may polarize the U.K. retail
market further, he said.  Collecting information on customers’ shopping habits helps
mall landlords decide where to locate retailers to create
mutually beneficial clusters of tenants. That’s prompted
Hammerson to test software developed by  Path Intelligence  to
track visitors’ movements around a mall using the signal from
their mobile phones.  “There is nothing ‘Big Brother’ about this,”  Lawrence Hutchings , Hammerson’s managing director in charge of retail,
said in an interview. “It has nothing to do with personal data.
It’s just the signal.”  Busiest Places  Retailers are focusing on the busiest and most convenient
locations as they rely on the internet more. Hollister, a brand
of Abercrombie & Fitch Inc., began its expansion outside North
America in the U.K. in 2008 and has since opened 19 outlets only
in the largest regional malls across the country backed by a
website.  Mall landlords are using technology to extend their
advantage over town-center shopping streets and smaller retail
centers, where rising vacancies are pushing down rents and
property values.  Unibail-Rodamco, Europe’s largest mall owner, said tenants
at its 88 centers saw a 4.2 percent increase in first-half sales
from a year earlier. By contrast, overall retail sales increased
less than 1 percent across the nine countries where it operates
and the gap has been widening since 2009, even as consumer
spending is under pressure.  “When the water’s rising, the high ground is where
retailers want to be,” said  Peter van Rossum , the company’s
chief financial officer. Unibail-Rodamco reported a 5.5 percent
increase in net rental income and said its properties
appreciated by 304 million euros, or 2.4 percent, in the first
half.  Competitions, Videos  Swire Properties Ltd. , the biggest commercial landlord in
eastern Hong Kong Island, says it uses quizzes, photo
competitions and videos on social network websites Facebook and
Twitter to attract visitors to themed events and promotions at
malls including  Pacific Place .  “It’s far more effective than fliers through a door,”
said Tony Brown, chief executive officer of  Lend Lease
Investment Management , which owns stakes in four British malls.  Mall of America ,  Triple Five Group’s  520-shop center in
Bloomington, Minnesota, has more than 270,000 followers on
Facebook, the highest for a shopping location in the world.  Smartphones are key to digital innovations at shopping
malls. Applications can guide a visitor to a shopping center,
locate a vacant parking space and plot the vehicle’s position on
a plan of the center. They can steer shoppers towards their
favorite stores, alert them to special promotions and provide
movie listings and other entertainment schedules.  Savings Alerts  Simon Property, the biggest U.S. shopping-mall owner, last
year introduced the shopkick Inc. smartphone application that
alerts visitors to promotions available from retailers. The
application complements Simon’s mobile shopper club.  Unibail-Rodamco said it will test a rewards-incentive
smartphone application based on visits to  Amstelveen  shopping
center in the Netherlands, which it may roll out at other
centers.  Property owners are playing catch-up with tech-savvy
retailers, said James Brown, head of  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. ’s
retail research business in Europe. He cited Starbucks Corp.’s
boost to sales through rewards provided through  Foursquare Labs
Inc.  phone applications. Successful retailers are combining
store openings with websites to drive sales, a strategy dubbed
“clicks and bricks.”  The speed of adopting the new technologies depends on the
size of online retail and the sophistication of smartphone use
in a country. In Asia, particularly in Japan and South Korea,
payment by mobile phone and applications that scan bar codes are
very advanced, said Brown at Jones Lang.  Virtual Mall  Westfield in November opened its online virtual mall
serving Australia and New Zealand, offering shoppers a price
comparison tool to search for goods and services carried by 130
retailers. The service provides a single checkout and links on
social network sites for shoppers to give feedback on
merchandise and service quality.  Westfield, the world’s second-largest shopping-mall owner
by market value, signed up online retailers that aren’t already
its tenants and provided some international retailers with their
first commercial presence in Australasia.  “Just traffic is not enough,”  Michelle Vanzella ,
Westfield’s director for business development said in an
interview. “It has to end up with sales.”  In the U.K., Europe’s largest online retail market, the new
technologies may accelerate the decline of city-center shopping
strips as higher energy costs and taxes crimp consumer spending
and cause more casualties among retail chains.  Vacancy Woes  Capital Shopping Centers Group Plc  said yesterday that just
3 percent of space in its 14 U.K. malls was vacant as of June 30
and visitor traffic rose 3 percent since the end of 2010. That
contrasts with an average vacancy rate of about 12 percent at
U.K. shopping centers. Three hundred town-center shopping strips
have an average vacancy rate of 14.5 percent, according to
retail research company  Local Data Co.   Twenty shops closed each day during the first five months,
according to a survey by Local Data for PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, which predicts more retail failures. Prospects for some
locations are so bleak that Prime Minister  David Cameron  ordered
a review in May to devise a national revival plan.  While retail failures may accelerate as the U.K. economy
falters, small-scale landlords can also employ technology to
fight back against the industry’s goliaths, said Bamfield of the
Centre for Retail Research.  “Everyone’s going to get into this area,” he said. “We
can only see 5 percent of what’s possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Barwell in London at 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  