-- 
Aluminum May Gain 9% in Shanghai on Tight Supply, Stanchart Says

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-08-02T09:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/aluminum-may-gain-9-in-shanghai-on-tight-supply-stanchart-says.html
Aluminum prices in China may rise
about 9 percent “in coming weeks” amid concerns about a
shortage in the world’s largest consumer and producer of the
metal, according to Standard Chartered Plc analyst Judy Zhu.  Aluminum on the  Shanghai  Futures Exchange may advance to
20,000 yuan ($3,106) a metric ton, Zhu said in a report today.
The metal has advanced 8.9 percent in Shanghai this year to
close at 18,340 yuan today, outpacing a 4.6 percent gain by
futures on the London Metal Exchange.  Stockpiles of the metal have fallen 59 percent this year to
the lowest level since August 2009, according to data from the
Shanghai bourse. Prices were last above 20,000 yuan in March
2008. Production of aluminum gained to a record for a third
month in June as high prices, ample raw materials and power
supplies prompted smelters to raise output.  “Strong demand on the ground has been supportive for the
rally in domestic prices so far this year,” Zhu said. Spot
prices in Changjiang physical market in Shanghai are also
trading at a premium over the three-month futures, suggesting
less availability of the metal, Zhu said.  Rising prices in  China  may encourage metal producers to
further raise output, depressing prices in the longer term, Zhu
said. Two million tons of new capacity will start commercial
production next year, the analyst said, citing data from London-
based researcher CRU.  Inventories have tumbled this year as fabricators raised
capacity-utilization rates to meet rising demand from makers of
air-conditioner to beverage can producers. Power shortages eased
in June as rainfall boosted generation of hydroelectricity,
according to the National Development and Reform Commission.  Aluminum production jumped 13 percent to 1.59 million tons
in June, a third monthly record, according to the National
Bureau of Statistics.  -- Editors: Richard Dobson, Jake Lloyd-Smith  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  