-- 
Alwaleed’s Kingdom Signs Deal With Binladin to Build World’s Tallest Tower

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-08-02T13:23:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/alwaleed-s-kingdom-signs-deal-with-binladin-to-build-world-s-tallest-tower.html
Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal chose Saudi Binladin Group to construct a building in
 Jeddah  that will replace Dubai’s Burj Khalifa as the world’s
tallest tower.  Kingdom Tower will be more than 1,000 meters (3,281 feet)
high and cost 4.6 billion riyals ($1.2 billion) to build,
Alwaleed’s investing company,  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) , said in a
statement today. Alwaleed announced the plan to build a
skyscraper with homes, offices and a hotel three years ago. The
property will be completed in about five years, he told
reporters in  Riyadh  today.  The tower will be the centerpiece of a 100-billion-riyal
development in Jeddah known as Kingdom City that was announced
soon after the onset of the global credit crisis that roiled
real-estate markets.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the United Arab
Emirates’ biggest real-estate developer, is managing the
development. Emaar built the 828-meter  Burj Khalifa .  The building’s construction isn’t likely to help alleviate
Saudi Arabia’s growing housing shortage. The Arab world’s
largest economy needs to build 900 homes a day over the next
five years to meet the demands of a population that has
quadrupled over the last 40 years to 28.7 million, Jones Lang
LaSalle said March 27.  “Saudis, like a lot of Gulf residents, like to live in
villas and individual homes; they don’t like to live in flats or
big towers,” said Loic Pelichet, assistant vice president of
research at National Bank of  Kuwait ’s NBK Capital unit. The
tower’s construction “changes nothing on the housing demand
front.”  ‘Prestige Project’  Kingdom Tower will be built in the first phase of a 5.3
million-square-meter development that overlooks the  Red Sea  and
Obhur Creek, the company said.  It’s a “prestige project” that Kingdom Holding has
committed itself to building after presumably gaining investor
interest, NBK’s Pelichet said. “Is there demand anywhere in the
world for a 1,000 meter-high tower? I’m not sure.”  In October, Adrian Smith & Gordon Gill Architecture was
selected to design the tower in Jeddah. Adrian Smith designed
Burj Khalifa when he was working for Skidmore Owings & Merrill,
Gulf News reported on Oct. 22.  Jeddah-based Saudi Binladin Group,  Saudi Arabia ’s largest
construction firm, agreed to become a shareholder in Jeddah
Economic Co., the project’s owner, with a stake of about 17
percent, according to today’s statement. Kingdom Holding and
Abrar International Holding Co. each own a third of the stock,
and Abdurrahman Sharbatly owns the remaining 17 percent.  Saudi Binladin Group, which expanded the holy mosque in
Mecca and built large projects across the  Middle East , is owned
by the family of deceased al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.  Kingdom Holding shares rose 1.9 percent to 8 riyals in
Riyadh today, giving the company a market value of 29.6 billion
riyals. Emaar gained 1.4 percent to 3 dirhams in Dubai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 