-- 
Hamptons Scene: Robert Wilson, Rufus Wainwright, Lisa Perry

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-08-02T14:07:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/hamptons-scene-robert-wilson-parties-with-rufus-wainwright-lisa-perry.html
Singer Rufus Wainwright and arts
patron Lisa Anastos stood on the side of the road.  Nobody was allowed to enter the annual benefit for the
 Watermill Center , Robert Wilson’s East End retreat for artists
in Water Mill, New York, until Wilson gave his okay.  The delay was brief.  Once admitted, guests made their way up a path leading to a
building filled with women wearing  Charlie Le Mindu  wigs.  On the other side was a steamroller flattening sand, around
a group of dancers coated in silver.  “It’s Berlin lite,” Wainwright said, emerging out of a
glass box filled with tubes of light and fog. The artwork,
“Nothing to See Here,” by  Santiago Taccetti , was one of 25
created for the event.  Later, while guests dined on lamb and black bass,
Wainwright sang a song in honor of Wilson’s 70th birthday.  Wilson, in a black T-shirt and khakis, ignored his party’s
“fearless” dress code. The director and playwright was in the
courtyard to greet guests such as Lucy de Kooning (Willem de Kooning’s granddaughter), designer  Lisa Perry  and Solomon R.
Guggenheim Museum Curator of Asian Art, Alexandra Munroe.
Artists present included  E.V. Day ,  Richard Phillips  and
 Josephine Meckseper .  Wilson helped shape the event’s performances in meetings
with the artists in residence and at two dress rehearsals.  “He has a vision, he likes things in a certain way,”
 Andressa Furletti , a Brazilian actress, said.  Heads in Wood  The work that stopped many people in their tracks involved
two men’s heads popping out of wood chips on the ground. The
men, Ryan McNamara and Sam Roeck, sang “Islands in the
Stream,” the  Kenny Rogers  and Dolly Parton duet. Some guests,
preoccupied with their cameras and cell phones, stepped on them.  “Would you like a spritz?” asked Gina Sarra, a retired
teacher, before dousing McNamara. Roeck asked another spectator
to scratch his nose.  More than 1,000 guests attended the July 30 event, which 
raised $1.5 million. Many of the performances will be repeated 
on Aug. 14 when Watermill Center opens to the public from 3 to 
6 p.m. (Admission will be free.)  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 