-- 
Arena, Eisai Weight-Loss Drug Unlikely to Cause Brain Tumors, Study Finds

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-08-02T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/arena-eisai-weight-loss-drug-unlikely-to-cause-brain-tumors.html
Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA)  and Eisai
Co. said a study showed that concentrations of their weight-loss
pill were lower in human brains than in rat models, a finding
that may ease concerns that the drug may be linked to brain
tumors.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration last October rejected
the medicine, lorcaserin, for marketing approval and requested
more data after a rat study showed a possible link to brain
tumors. San Diego-based Arena and Tokyo-based Eisai plan to
submit the study to the FDA to support an application for
approval.  Lorcaserin is one of three experimental medicines competing
to become the first obesity drug approved by regulators in more
than a decade.  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX)  of  La Jolla ,
 California , said in June that it would stop development of its
pill, Contrave, after the FDA asked for a large study on heart
risks. Regulators in October also declined to approve Qnexa from
 Mountain View , California-based  Vivus Inc. (VVUS)  and asked for more
information about potential  birth defects .  In the test of lorcaserin patients, an analysis of plasma
and cerebrospinal fluid showed human brains had 1.7 times the
exposure to the drug found in the plasma, the companies said
today in a statement. That compares with a finding in rats at
about 24 times plasma exposure. The results suggest that humans
are less likely to grow astrocytomas, slow-growing brain tumors
seen in rats tested with the drug, said Christen Anderson,
Arena’s vice president of development for lorcaserin.  Lower Risk  “Previously, when we submitted our application, we
estimated a certain level of risk,” Anderson said in an
interview. “What we’re now saying is that the risk to humans
relative to rats is a lot lower than previously estimated.”  Brain tumors were found in male rats given certain doses of
lorcaserin over a two-year study period. Because the drug may
enter human brains differently from rat brains, the relationship
of plasma concentration to brain concentration was measured in
nine healthy obese volunteers in the seven-day study.  “This means of course that we provide a higher safety
margin” than was thought earlier, said Jack Lief, the chief
executive officer of Arena, in a telephone interview. The
companies will submit their response to the FDA by the end of
the year, he said.  Regulators also asked the companies to assess the risk of
mammary tumors in female rats. More information on that data
will be discussed during Arena’s quarterly earnings call
scheduled Aug. 9, Lief said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 