-- 
Arizona’s State-Owned Mexico Border Fence Attracts Donors From Across U.S.

-- B y   A m a n d a   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-08-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/arizona-s-state-owned-mexico-border-fence-attracts-donors-from-across-u-s-.html
Arizona , whose immigration law
sparked a lawsuit by the Obama administration and national
boycotts, aims to collect tens of millions of dollars  in private
donations  to build a border fence with inmate labor.  The plan,  created by lawmakers  and signed into law by
Republican Governor Jan Brewer in April, would turn donations
over to a group of Republican legislators, political appointees
and four county sheriffs who have criticized U.S. efforts to
combat illegal immigration. They say the fence is needed to stop
an “invasion” that may include violent criminals and Middle
Eastern terrorists disguised as Mexicans.  “Arizona once more has to step in and do a job the federal
government won’t do,” Republican state Senator  Steve Smith , who
sponsored the bill, said in a telephone interview. He said he
believes the Obama administration has failed to secure the
border and has now given up. “It is a massive invasion on our
social and economic systems. Nobody can deny that.”  The campaign is ratcheting up rhetoric between the state
and the federal government over border security. It is modeled
after a similar effort by Brewer that taps into the same
nationwide discontent over U.S. policy to pay for the defense of
Arizona’s immigration law. The campaign,  Keep Arizona Safe , has
raised more than $3.8 million from about 45,000 donations since
June 2010, said Matthew Benson, a spokesman for Brewer.  $50 Million Goal  For the border fence, more than $146,000 has been collected
from about 3,000 private donors in 50 states since fundraising
began July 20. At least 568 were from Arizona, 329 from
 California , 182 from  Texas , 173 from  Florida , 88 from  New York 
and 42 from  New Jersey . The goal is to raise a minimum of $50
million, said Smith.  Smith acknowledged that the fund will have to collect
several million dollars to do anything. Existing fencing on the
U.S.-Mexico border cost an average of $1 million to almost $4
million a mile (1.6 kilometers) to build, with some areas
costing as much as $15 million per mile, according to  a 2009
report  from the U.S. Government Accountability Office. The state
would use inmate labor to keep costs down, Smith said.  The law doesn’t specify where or how the fence would be
built. The 16-member  Joint Border Security Advisory Committee ,
which includes Smith and nationally known border-hawk Sheriffs
Joe Arpaio and Paul Babeu, would control the money and the
project.  The 368-mile-long border between  Mexico  and Arizona now has
306 miles of fencing built by the federal government -- 123.2
miles of pedestrian fencing and 182.8 miles of vehicle fencing,
said Victor L. Brabble, a U.S.  Customs and Border Protection 
spokesman in Arizona. About 61 miles don’t have fencing because
of mountains or other difficult terrain, he said.  ‘Unparalleled Invasion’  The  Arizona campaign site  features a photo of a fence
across the open desert that is intended to block vehicles --
vertical poles placed too close to one another for a car to
drive through -- with the question, “Does this look like a
secure border?”  In a  letter posted  to the site, Smith said donors’ help is
needed to stop “an unparalleled invasion.” He cites statistics
on deaths in Mexico and  an estimate by  the anti-immigration
group FAIR (Federation for American Immigration Reform) that
illegal immigrants cost the nation $100 billion per year, a
figure opponent groups say  is inflated .  He also notes that the total number of non-Mexican
immigrants detained (45,279 in 2009) includes those from Middle
Eastern countries and quotes FBI testimony that immigrants from
Islamic nations might change their names and learn to speak
Spanish to pretend to be Hispanic.  ‘Racial Profiling’  Walter Ewing, a researcher at the Washington-based
Immigration Policy Center, which supports comprehensive changes
to U.S. law, said in an e-mail that the letter from Smith on the
fence project’s website is “replete with errors and misleading
statements” including claims about Middle Eastern immigrants
that are akin to “racial profiling.”  Former Arizona Attorney General Terry Goddard, a Democrat
who lost to Brewer in the governor’s race last year and now is a
senior fellow with the Immigration Policy Center, said the fence
would be expensive to build and won’t work. All types of fencing
can be penetrated, dug under, climbed or flown over by the
criminal syndicates responsible for smuggling drugs and most
immigrants, he said.  “I think it is a  fraud ,” he said in a telephone
interview. “I think it is taking people’s money with the
assertion it will do something to stop the smuggling of human
beings and drugs,” Goddard said. “This is money taken under
false pretenses. It won’t.”  ‘Last Stand’  David Aguilar, deputy commissioner of Customs and  Border
Protection , told Brewer and a panel of governors  meeting in Salt
Lake City  July 16 that he is frustrated by “perceptions being
put out” about violence at the border and lax border security.  He said his agency refers to Arizona as “the last stand”
on the U.S.-Mexico border, and that crime at the border and
border crossings is down. El Paso, Texas, across from crime-
ravaged  Ciudad Juarez , Mexico, has a violent-crime rate 36
percent lower than a decade ago. The rate in Tucson, Arizona, is
down 22 percent, he said.  So far 257,000 undocumented immigrants have been detained
entering the country illegally in the fiscal year that ends
Sept. 30, down from a peak of 1.6 million in fiscal year 2000,
including a 44 percent drop in Arizona, he testified.  Arizona claim  Last week Arizona argued in a claim against the federal
government that the U.S. has failed to enforce immigration law
or protect the state from an invasion. The suit was filed in
response to the U.S. challenge of Arizona’s year-old immigration
law, which has kept key provisions from going into effect. The
law, which requires police officers to check the immigration
status of anyone they suspect to be illegal, led to calls for a
boycott of Arizona and similar legislation in other states.  Brewer, who drew fire during the 2010 campaign for what
turned out to be baseless assertions that headless bodies had
been found in the Arizona desert, said at the July 16 meeting
that she hears different things about border-related crime from
some sheriffs in her state.  “Those of us who are living there, those of us who see on
a daily basis what is taking place -- we need more help. We need
more people. We need more troops. We need our border secured,”
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  