-- 
Ashton Carter Chosen by Obama to Be Deputy Defense Secretary

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-02T19:41:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/ashton-carter-chosen-by-obama-to-be-deputy-defense-secretary.html
Ashton Carter , the Pentagon’s top
weapons buyer, is being nominated by President  Barack Obama  to
become deputy defense secretary.  Carter, 56, the undersecretary of defense for acquisition,
technology and logistics, will replace William Lynn, who
announced his decision last month to retire later this year.
Carter assumed office in  April 2009 . His successor hasn’t been
named.  The deputy defense secretary traditionally manages the nuts
and bolts of running the department.  The White House announced today Obama’s intention to send
Carter’s nomination to the Senate. The choice means the
administration won’t need to recruit an outside candidate who
may be delayed by the requirement to divest investments to avoid
conflicts of interest and wait for FBI vesting before a
confirmation hearing.  Carter has been at the center of Pentagon procurement
efforts that include crafting $100 billion of efficiency savings
and pushing for major change in defense industry contracting. He
is known for a hands-on acquisition management style, with
frequent trips to Iraq and  Afghanistan  to assess soldier
equipment needs.  Carter set up a system for expediting deployment of
urgently needed equipment, such as fortified MRAPS vehicles
pushed by then-Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , which became a
$40 billion program.  During the early days of the program, Carter test drove
vehicles and demanded changes to improve driver visibility and
safety.  Rhodes Scholar  Gates asked that an image of an MRAP vehicle appear in his
official portrait to be displayed in the corridor outside the
defense secretary’s office. When Gates left office, Carter gave
him a scale model of the  Navistar International Corp. (NAV) 
“MaxxPro” version as a keepsake and artist model.  Prior to assuming this position in 2009, Carter was
chairman of the international and global affairs faculty at
Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , and co-director of the Preventive Defense
Project.  From 1993 to 1996, he served as assistant secretary of
defense for international security policy. During that time, he
directed military planning during the 1994 crisis over  North
Korea ’s nuclear weapons program and was involved in removing all
nuclear weapons from the territories of Ukraine, Kazakhstan, and
Belarus, according to the White House announcement.  Carter holds a bachelor’s degree from  Yale University  and a
doctorate from Oxford University, where he was a Rhodes Scholar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  