-- 
Aston Martin Doesn’t Ask Q as Technology Ages: Cars

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-08-03T15:37:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/aston-martin-doesn-t-ask-q-as-profit-means-old-technology-cars.html
(Corrects name of Jaguar designer in 11th paragraph.)  Aston Martin , the British luxury car
brand driven by  James Bond , wants to defend its independence by
squeezing profits out of aging technology.  The British manufacturer, whose best seller is the $113,400
Vantage coupe, plans to develop additional models off an eight-
year-old platform. The approach reflects the limits on Aston
Martin, which can’t tap development resources of a big parent
like  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Lamborghini and  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Ferrari.  “The models are starting to have a slight whiff of Sunday
dinner being used in sandwiches later in the week,” said Andrew
Jackson, an analyst at research firm Datamonitor in London. “It
leaves the impression of a company stretching itself as far as
it can. In the industry that they operate in, with their
competitors, they really need to be cutting edge.”  Aston Martin, sold by  Ford Motor Co. (F)  to a group of private
investors including  Kuwait ’s Investment Dar Co. in 2007, is
outgunned in the luxury-car segment.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the parent of
Mercedes-Benz, plans to spend about 5 billion euros ($7.1
billion) this year on research and development. That’s more than
eight times the Gaydon, England-based company’s revenue of 509
million pounds ($830 million) for the 12 months ended March 31.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , which owns the Rolls-Royce
marque, is building a factory to make lightweight carbon fibers
for a line of electric-powered vehicles, as it adapts to demand
for cleaner cars. It’s also developing front-wheel drive BMW
models and expanding the Mini brand with a coupe and roadster.  Rapid Change  “The next 10 years will see more change in the  auto
industry  than the past 100,” as the industry adopts new
technologies,  Ian Robertson , the Munich-based automaker’s sales
chief, said at an event in  Frankfurt  last week.  Independence can be risky for small carmakers. Saab, the
Swedish brand sold by  General Motors Co. (GM)  in February 2010, was
forced to halt production in April because of a cash shortage.
The company is seeking to raise fresh financing and agree on
payment and delivery terms with suppliers in a bid to restart
manufacturing later this month.  Large carmakers can help niche manufacturers stay
competitive by spreading development costs across brands and
models. Fiat owns Maserati and  Alfa Romeo  as well as Ferrari. VW
is merging with Porsche SE to add the maker of the 911 to its
upscale brands. The Lamborghini Gallardo shares the same
platform with the R8 from VW’s Audi unit, while the Bentley
Continental Flying Spur and GT models are based on the same
underpinnings as the VW Phaeton.  ‘Same Design’  A lack of resources at Aston Martin, which became iconic as
the brand the film character Q modified with machine guns and
ejector seats for James Bond in “Goldfinger,” has led to a
portfolio of similar models.  Of 15 current vehicles, all but the four-door Rapide and
Cygnet city car are two-door coupes or roadsters. Aside from the
1 million-pound One-77 supercar and the Cygnet, which is derived
from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s iQ, all cars are based on the same
aluminum platform first introduced in 2003 with the DB9.  “It’s still that same old basic design,” Ian Callum, who
designed the DB9 and is now design director at  Tata Motors
Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar Land Rover unit, said in a July 27 interview.
“Some will argue that if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it. But you
do get to a time when you have to move on.”  Still, Aston Martin has made a virtue of necessity by using
its so-called vertical-horizontal platform as the basis for more
and more high-end models, including the 330,000-pound Zagato,
which will start deliveries next year.  Higher Prices  “All the projects that we are doing have to make a
profit,” Chief Executive Officer Ulrich Bez, 66, told
journalists at the company’s Gaydon headquarters. “We can’t
afford a project that is just a marketing tool.”  The strategy has pushed up the average price of Aston
Martin cars 49 percent to 104,000 pounds last year from 70,000
pounds in 2007, the company said at the July 6 briefing.  By recycling technology and using engines from Ford, Aston
Martin can keep costs and development times down. That’s secured
Aston Martin a profit margin of about 20 percent, nearly double
Mercedes’s 10.7 percent return on sales in the second quarter.  “We don’t make the mistake of applying manufacturing
techniques that are perfectly sensible for 500,000-a-year models
to small-volume cars,” Chief Financial Officer Hanno Kirner
said. Aston Martin sold 4,299 cars in the year through March 31.  That focus has given Aston Martin breathing room after
Investment Dar, which owns half of the British manufacturer,
missed a $100 million Islamic bond payment in May 2009. The
closely held company in June raised 304 million pounds through
the sale of high-yield bonds.  With the new financing, the company has sufficient
resources to finance its development, which includes expansion
in  China . An initial public offering will be explored when the
company sees the “right window,” Bez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  