-- 
Athens Protesters Hurl Marble as Most Greeks Recoil Over Global Perception

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 
2011-08-02T21:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/athens-protesters-hurl-marble-as-most-greeks-recoil-over-global-perception.html
The morning after protesters smashed
up marble sidewalks in central  Athens  to throw rocks at police,
Nikos Zokos was in Syntagma Square putting them back together.  The 55-year-old builder, whose clients include  Hotel Grande
Bretagne  across the street from the legislature that adjoins the
square, understands the disgust with the government over
spending cuts and tax increases. Violently destroying marble,
though, isn’t the way to show it, he said.  “Protest is about something else, it has nothing to do
with marble,” said Zokos, who has worked with the hard,
polished rock for 23 years. “To break a work of art that some
person has created to last, it’s a disgrace.”  While the fighting at Syntagma Square caught the attention
of television cameras eager to film a public battleground after
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  was forced to concede austerity
measures in exchange for bailout funds from the European Union,
most Greeks are peacefully trying to cope with the biggest
economic upheaval in a generation.  Income for the average Greek with a monthly salary dropped
15 percent to 18 percent in the past year because of lower wages
and higher taxes, according to estimates from  Dimitris
Sotiropoulos , associate professor of political science at the
University of Athens.  “People are gradually understanding that we are
constructing a new economic model, not a state-dependent
economic model,” Sotiropoulos said. “The changes are related
to the mentality that was very state centered. It used to be an
economy growing on funds distributed by the state.”  Greek Image  While dependence on the state for jobs, pensions and social
benefits came to symbolize  Greece ’s ailing finances, few things
represent the Athens cityscape more than marble.  The stone adorns everything from entrances to stores and
metro stations to the 2,500 year-old Parthenon atop the
Acropolis, where Lord Elgin’s dismantling of ancient monuments
at the beginning of the 19th century to  ship back to Britain  --
and never given back -- still irks Greeks.  Zokos said the violence in the streets has brought in
revenue for his company to repair marble. Yet he also has been
hurt by increasing taxes, gasoline and energy costs.  “After every demonstration or protest, we have to clean
and pick up debris,” Zokos said on July 26 by telephone outside
the Grande Bretagne. “This isn’t business, it saddens us.”  Peaceful Acropolis  One stop along the Athens metro from Syntagma, in the shops
and cafes outside the  Acropolis Museum  built to house the marble
sculptures from the Parthenon, there was no sign on June 15 of
the rioting that the world’s television cameras focused on.  Police and protesters clashed outside parliament where
Papandreou announced a cabinet reshuffle and vote of confidence
in his government after failing to forge a consensus with rival
political parties over his austerity plans.  Athens municipal authorities reported 400,000 euros
($570,400) of damage that day. Two weeks later, violence cost
another 700,000 euros, with workers collecting as much as 30
tons of rocks and broken marble, the mayor’s office said.  Polls show the majority of Greeks acknowledge the economy
needs an overhaul, just not at the speed Papandreou says is
necessary to satisfy the European Union,  International Monetary
Fund  and  European Central Bank .  They also oppose the riots between masked youths and police.
A survey of 1,014 people on June 21-23 by Marc SA for Ethnos
newspaper found that about 70 percent say the government must
implement the cuts.  ‘Positive Change’  Elias Sambo, 41, part-owner of a restaurant in the Athens
seaside suburb of Alimos, said he never lived “the big life,”
though he could afford to dine out with his wife and take a trip
every so often. Now he said he’s cutting costs rather than
throwing rocks at police.  “It’s not an image we want to show the world,” Sambo said.
“In the end, positive change needs to happen.”  Sambo said he is in “survival” mode.  “We’ve cut staff and tried to control expenses,” he said
at his eatery. “Things have changed. Before the crisis, our
patio in the evening would be full, but instead it is empty.”  Greece secured a second aid package last month of 159
billion euros, which includes 50 billion euros from bondholders,
as yields on Greek 10-year notes rose to a euro-era record of
18.21 percent on July 18. That was in addition to the 65 billion
euros already paid out under the 110 billion-euro bailout agreed
with the EU and IMF in May 2010.  Five-Year Plan  Papandreou’s latest five-year, 78 billion-euro plan pushed
through parliament in June includes higher taxes on restaurants,
bars and heating oil, and reduces the tax-free threshold to
8,000 euros from 12,000 euros.  “It will be a period of five to 10 years where we have to
downsize the length of our vacations, the number of our shoes
and the number of our telephone appliances and TV sets, and the
days we go out to dine,” said Sotiropoulos from the University
of Athens. “It is very difficult to convince people to do this
because they’ve been used to spending more than they produce.”  Unemployment in Greece is set to average 14.5 percent this
year and the gross domestic product, which contracted 4.4
percent in 2010, will shrink a further 3.8 percent this year,
according to a report from EU and IMF inspectors in July. The
nation’s debt load will peak at 161 percent of GDP next year.
It’s already the biggest in the euro region’s history.  After joining the EU in the 1980s, subsidies boosted the
economy and enriched people under Papandreou’s father and Pasok
party founder, Andreas. Following a dip in the early 1990s,
economic growth continued in the run-up to euro membership in
2001, when year-on-year GDP growth peaked at 6.2 percent.  Papandreou’s Challenge  “Our experience in the last 10 years, other than the
specific crisis, was a period of high and important growth for
Greece and better conditions,” Papandreou said in a July 19
interview in Athens. “Now, we obviously have to make changes.”  His package is drawing opposition from all corners of Greek
society. As well as daily protests outside parliament that
swelled into thousands of people when unions staged general
strikes, taxi drivers have blocked approaches to airports to
oppose the deregulation of their industry. Police cleared
demonstrators from Syntagma Square as recently as the past
weekend.  “It’s not only that they cut my salary, it’s that
everything is more expensive now from the increases in sales
taxes,” said Katerina Boubouris, 33, a secretary at a hospital
in Athens, who spent nothing in the stores she browsed.  While Boubouris laments the loss of most of her summer
bonus and not having enough money to travel often to see her
aging parents, she says Greeks need to get on with life.  “I don’t think breaking marble and violence is the right
thing to do,” she said. “I am against breaking all those
things in the center of Athens.”  Symbol of Wealth  What protesters don’t realize is that the marble itself is
a symbol of Greek wealth and should be respected, Zokos said.  Greece has had a historical abundance of marble because of
the high geological concentrations of calcium carbonate, the
chemical compound that is its vital ingredient, according to
 Basile Christaras , a geology professor at the Aristotelian
University of Thessaloniki.  The majority of varieties used by modern builders are
geologically different, and cheaper, than those used by the
ancient counterparts, Christaras said by telephone on Aug. 1.  “Marble shows nobility, it shows character,” Zokos said.
“To throw a piece of marble that is genuine is nasty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  