-- 
Australia Rate-Rise Signal Unheeded by Bond Market Seeing Cut by Year-End

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-03T06:37:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/australia-s-rate-increase-signal-goes-unheeded-by-bond-market.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  signaled he will raise  interest rates  when global
risks dissipate, a message dismissed by a  bond market  seeing an
escalation in risks among the nation’s trading partners.  Stevens held the overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent
yesterday and for the first time since October -- a month before
the last increase in borrowing costs -- cited in his statement
the prospect of raising the benchmark. He indicated an “acute
sense of uncertainty in global financial markets” had stayed
his hand.  With U.S. growth struggling to rebound from a near-stall,
and ratings companies further cutting euro-area debt grades,
interbank cash-rate futures are pricing in an RBA rate cut by
year-end. At stake for who’s right on the outlook are prospects
for mortgage holders and retailers, who will be hit by any
further boost to the developed world’s highest borrowing costs.  “A tightening bias is clear,” said Paul Bloxham, chief
economist for  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in Sydney and a former RBA
official who sees a rate rise in the fourth quarter. “The
policy choice of ‘least regret’ in this environment is to sit on
your hands -- hiking rates would have been very bold, perhaps
foolhardy, given the U.S. debt situation and recent weaker
domestic sentiment.”  Currency Falls  The highlighting of global risks in Stevens’s statement
prompted investors to sell the local currency, which fell the
most in four months, and spurred a government bond rally that
drove yields on all maturities below the cash rate for the first
time since 2009. The Aussie dollar traded at $1.0725 at 4:30
p.m. in Sydney from $1.0979 before yesterday’s decision.  The odds of a 50 basis-point rate cut in December soared to
over 100 percent in the interbank cash-rate futures market,
compared with 5 percent before yesterday’s decision. A Credit
Suisse Group AG index showed traders betting Stevens will cut
borrowing costs by 76 basis points over the next 12 months.  Those wagers contrast with Stevens yesterday saying “the
board considered whether recent information warranted further
policy tightening.” He added that “on balance, the board
judged that it was prudent to maintain the current setting of
monetary policy, particularly in view of the acute sense of
uncertainty in global financial markets.”  Australia’s central bank is eyeing inflation that has
approached its top of its tolerance band, driven by the
expansion of mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  that
has stretched the nation’s productive capacity.  Inflation Quickens  The central bank’s two preferred measures of annual
inflation accelerated to 2.7 percent in the second quarter,
compared with a gain of about 2.3 percent in the first quarter.
The central bank aims to keep underlying inflation in a range of
2 percent to 3 percent on average.  The  International Monetary Fund  said the RBA may need to
resume raising rates to prevent inflation accelerating.  Demand from China and the rest of  Asia  is driving a
“strong” outlook for Australia’s economic growth, forecast by
the Washington-based IMF to accelerate to 3.5 percent in 2012
from 2 percent this year, division chief for Australia and  New
Zealand , Ray Brooks, said in comments to the Australian
newspaper that he confirmed in an e-mail today. In April, the
IMF predicted a 3 percent expansion for 2011.  ‘Favorable Outlook’  “It is the demand from China and the rest of Asia that is
driving this very strong and favorable outlook for Australia
despite some of the risks surrounding the euro area and the
U.S.,” Brooks said. If those risks turn out to be limited,
“there is likely to be a need for a further increase in the
policy rate just to contain the inflation pressures that are
coming from the impact of the mining boom on the wider
economy,” he said.  Stevens’s pause for an eighth straight meeting was his
longest stretch of inaction since taking the helm in 2006.  Clouding the outlook are signs of slowing in the U.S. and
 China , and financial disruptions in  Europe . Chinese
manufacturing has moderated for a fourth straight month, while
data last week showed U.S. gross domestic product posted the
weakest expansion in the six months through June than any such
period since the recovery began in June 2009.  Funding Pressures  In Europe, Moody’s Investors Service put  Spain ’s Aa2 rating
on review for a possible cut July 29, citing funding pressures.
That followed a similar step for  Italy  on June 17. Meantime, the
U.S. is aiming to avoid its own downgrade with a deal to raise
federal borrowing authority and shrink the  budget deficit , which
President  Barack Obama  has signed into law.  The RBA’s “cautious assessment” of global financial risk
may not change quickly, according to  Paul Brennan , a senior
economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney. “The RBA is in no hurry
to raise rates again and indeed there is a high hurdle to
tightening further, although there is no hint of any
consideration of lowering rates.”  Stevens has relied on the Australian dollar’s strength to
temper the acceleration in inflation. The local currency has
risen about 18 percent in the past year and reached $1.1081 on
July 27, the highest level since it was freely floated in 1983.  An additional rate rise, on top of the 175 basis points of
increases from October 2009 to November 2010, may further curb
households’ appetite to borrow and spend. The nation’s saving
rate has surged in recent quarters and demand for mortgages has
waned to the slowest annual pace since records started in 1977.
Household spending accounts for 55 percent of the economy.  Retail Sales Fall  A government report today showed Australian retail sales
unexpectedly declined in June for a second straight month as
spending at department stores dropped the most since April 2010.  A separate report showed  Australia ’s trade surplus narrowed
more than economists forecast in June as imports surged to the
highest level in more than two years.  The Australian dollar’s appreciation, propelled by higher
rates and the mining-investment boom caused by China’s demand
for iron ore and coal, has also hammered the nation’s factories.
Private reports this week showed manufacturing slumped to a two-
year low in July and services have contracted for 10 of the past
12 months.  If Stevens’s statement is any guide, more pain may be in
store.  “It is worth keeping in mind how close the RBA was to
hiking,” said  Stephen Roberts , a senior economist at Nomura
Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “If global financial  market sentiment 
improves substantially over the next few weeks, then either the
September or October meetings would have significant potential
for a hike.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  