-- 
Australian House Prices Fall in Second Quarter as Higher Rates Damp Demand

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-02T01:44:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/australian-house-prices-fall-in-second-quarter-as-higher-rates-damp-demand.html
Australian  house prices  declined in
the three months through June, the third quarterly drop in the
past year, as higher borrowing costs curbed demand.  An index measuring the weighted average of prices for
established houses in eight major cities fell 0.1 percent last
quarter from the previous three months, when they dropped a
revised 1.1 percent, the  Australian Bureau of Statistics  said in
Sydney today. The median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was a 1 percent fall. The index declined 1.9
percent from a year earlier.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will keep
the developed world’s highest interest rates unchanged at 4.75
percent today, according to most economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, after the labor market lost 5,400 jobs in the
April-June period, the weakest quarter since 2001. Sales of
newly built dwellings fell 8.7 percent in June, the biggest
decline in five years, a private report showed yesterday.  The result follows “some moderation in auction clearance
rates and a reduction in the demand for established dwelling
finance,”  Joshua Williamson , a senior economist in Sydney at
Citigroup Inc., wrote in a report before today’s release.  Prices fell 1 percent in Perth and dropped 1.6 percent in
Darwin from the previous quarter, while they advanced 0.4
percent in Sydney and gained 1.1 percent in Canberra. In
Melbourne, prices slipped 0.1 percent, the report showed.  A jump in home prices was among reasons Stevens increased
the benchmark rate by 175 basis points from October 2009 to
November last year.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  