-- 
Australia to Spend Extra A$19.8 Billion on Public Hospitals

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-08-02T01:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/australia-to-spend-extra-a-19-8-billion-on-public-hospitals.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has won
agreement from Australian states on a formula to fund health
care that will give regional governments an extra A$19.8 billion
($21.8 billion) over the next nine years for hospitals.  The federal government will pay as much as 50 percent of
new costs in hospitals, which are run by state and territory
governments, by fiscal 2017-18, Gillard told reporters in
Canberra today. The funding will total A$175 billion by 2029-30.  “What this new deal means, put simply, is more money, more
beds, more services, more local control, greater accountability,
less waste and less waiting times around the nation,” Gillard
said.  The plan was first announced last year by Gillard’s
predecessor,  Kevin Rudd , and faced opposition from some regions,
led by Western Australia, because of a proposal to claw back
revenue states get from the goods and services tax, or GST.
Gillard dropped that proposal in February.  The prime minister said the deal requires that 90 percent
of all patients at hospital emergency departments be seen within
four hours, down from an earlier target of 95 percent that
applied to certain categories of people.  “We have got away from all that complexity to make the
system more transparent, more understandable and more
meaningful,” Gillard said.  Gillard’s  Labor Party  formed a minority government after
elections in August, 2010 with a promise to provide extra health
spending to country areas represented in Parliament by
independent lawmakers. She needs the support of four legislators,
either independents or from the Greens Party, to hold a majority
in  Australia ’s 150-seat lower house.  Health reforms are among policies aimed at restoring voter
confidence in Gillard. Support for her Labor Party collapsed to
a record low of 27 percent, according to a Newspoll survey of
1,142 voters published in the Australian newspaper July 12.
Support for the opposition Liberal-National coalition was 49
percent, the highest level since October 2001.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Canberra at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  