-- 
RBA Holds at 4.75% as Stevens Weighs Global Outlook, Sending Dollar Lower

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-02T05:47:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/australia-holds-key-rate-at-4-75-to-gauge-u-s-slowdown-currency-falls.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia kept
the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged, saying that while its
board considered boosting borrowing costs, it was prudent to
hold off because of a clouded global economic outlook.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  held the overnight cash rate target
at 4.75 percent in Sydney for a record eighth straight meeting,
saying “the board remains concerned about the medium-term
outlook for inflation.” He cited “the acute sense of
uncertainty” in financial markets as a key factor for inaction.  Stevens’s decision not to raise the developed world’s
highest rates reflects concern about slowdowns in the U.S. and
China, and Europe’s debt crisis. The local currency dropped by
the most in two weeks and the 10-year government bond yield fell
below the cash rate for the first time since February 2009.  “The board considered whether the recent information
warranted further policy tightening,” Stevens said in today’s
statement. “On balance, the board judged that it was prudent to
maintain the current setting of monetary policy, particularly in
view of the acute sense of uncertainty in global financial
markets.”  The Australian dollar declined after the decision, trading
at $1.0923 at 3:37 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0979 immediately
before the announcement. Interbank cash-rate futures priced in a
68 percent chance of a rate cut by December.  Rate Outlook  Brian Redican , senior economist in Sydney at  Macquarie
Group Ltd. (MQG) , Australia’s biggest investment bank, said the
market’s reaction to the decision may relate to a reversal of
bets on a rate increase. Four economists surveyed by Bloomberg
ahead of the announcement predicted a rate rise.  “It was obviously a very close decision,” Redican said.
“This is more just a delay of the inevitable rather than a
permanent stay of execution.”  The central bank’s two preferred measures of annual
inflation accelerated to 2.7 percent in the second quarter,
compared with a gain of about 2.3 percent in the first quarter.
The central bank aims to keep underlying inflation in a range of
2 percent to 3 percent on average.  “It is appropriate under such circumstances for monetary
policy to exert a degree of restraint,” Stevens said today.
“Most financial indicators suggest that it has been doing so,
as a result of the board’s decisions last year.”  Inflation Outlook  The central bank said last month it will probably lower its
2011 growth forecasts even as inflation accelerates, driven by
the expansion of mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)   Credit growth that’s declined in recent months “is very
subdued by historical standards, even with evidence of greater
willingness to lend,” he said. Asset prices including housing
have “softened” in recent months and the Australian dollar is
“high.”  “Each of these variables is affected by other factors as
well, but together they point to financial conditions being
tighter than normal,” Stevens said.  In  Washington  late yesterday, the House of Representatives
passed legislation that would raise the U.S.’s borrowing
authority by at least $2.1 trillion, easing concern about the
threat of a default. The measure goes to the Senate for a vote
before an Aug. 2 deadline expires.  Clouding the outlook is concern that the  U.S. economy  has
yet to regain the ground it lost during the recession. Gross
domestic product expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, after a 0.4 percent pace in the prior period,
the worst six months since the recovery began in June 2009,
Commerce Department figures showed July 29.  EU Debt Concern  In  Europe , Moody’s Investors Service put  Spain ’s Aa2 rating
on review for a possible cut on July 29, citing funding
pressures. That followed a similar step for  Italy  on June 17.
Ten-year bond yields for both nations approached euro-era
records last week as the region’s officials failed to convince
investors they would halt the spread of the debt crisis after
arranging a so-called selective default for  Greece .  The RBA has relied on the Australian dollar’s strength to
temper gains in inflation. The local currency has risen about 20
percent in the past year and reached $1.1081 on July 27, the
highest level since it was freely floated in 1983.  In  Asia ,  China ’s manufacturing slowed for a fourth straight
month in July as businesses were hurt by tighter credit and
weakness in export demand, a government report showed yesterday.  Domestic Weakness  Stevens, 53, also faces a domestic economy showing signs of
weakness.  Private reports yesterday showed manufacturing slumped to a
two-year low last month and sales of new homes fell the most in
five years. Earlier today, government reports showed
residential-building permits in June dropped more than
economists forecast and  house prices  fell from April through
June for the third quarter in the past year.  The currency’s appreciation mirrors rising global demand
for Australian  iron ore , coal and other resources.  The RBA has expressed concern that higher consumption will
clash with capacity constraints such as skill shortages caused
by mining investment that the government estimates will reach
A$76 billion ($83 billion) this fiscal year.  Household spending accounts for 55 percent of the economy,
and the central bank has sought to restrain consumption with 175
basis points of rate increases from October 2009 to November,
letting investment in mining drive growth.  “Precautionary behavior by households also looks likely to
keep some areas of demand weaker in the near term than earlier
expected,” Stevens said today.  The nation’s saving rate has surged in recent quarters and
demand for mortgages has waned to the slowest annual pace since
records started in 1977.  “If the RBA can’t hike given recent core CPI prints, then
I don’t think they will until the property and retailing sectors
pick up markedly,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney
at ICAP  Australia  Ltd., a unit of the world’s biggest
interdealer broker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  