-- 
Balanced Budget Suddenly Looks More Appealing: Edward Glaeser

-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 
2011-08-02T00:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/balanced-budget-suddenly-looks-more-appealing-edward-glaeser.html
We have stared hard into the abyss of
a national default, and the close call with financial Armageddon
is starting to make a balanced-budget amendment look good.  A stringent restriction on public borrowing, if properly
crafted, offers the hope for more fiscal responsibility, less
wasteful spending and a slightly less terrifying budgetary
process. Yet while a well-crafted amendment looks a little
better, there are enormous challenges in creating a sensible
measure that balances fiscal restraint with the ability to adapt
to new circumstances.  Balanced-budget amendments have been in circulation for
decades; Minnesota Representative Harold Knutson proposed a
constitutional limit on borrowing back in 1936. In 1982, the
Senate approved an amendment requiring that “ prior to each
fiscal year , the Congress shall adopt a statement of receipts
and outlays for that year in which total outlays are no greater
than total receipts,” but that proposal  died in the House . In
1995, the House passed an amendment requiring that “total
outlays for any fiscal year shall not exceed total receipts for
that fiscal year;” it failed in the Senate.  The possibility of a balanced-budget amendment is back, and
the case today seems a lot stronger than it did in the 1980s and
1990s. I rarely favor changing the Constitution, which can lead
to fits of folly like the 18th Amendment that brought about
prohibition. Moreover, Congress can run a balanced budget any
time it wants simply by cutting spending and raising taxes.  Broken Process  Throughout most of my life, the debt has seemed manageable
and the budgetary process seemed to work, more or less. The
robust deficits of the Reagan era were reduced with a bipartisan
deal signed by President  George H.W. Bush . During the Clinton
years, the combination of a centrist Democrat who cared about
bond markets and an empowered Republican House led to budget
surpluses.  During those years, it seemed clear that deficits were
rarely the real enemy. The big social costs from big government
came from wasteful spending, not from financing that spending
with taxes today or tomorrow. If you spend $100 million on a
bridge to nowhere, it doesn’t much matter if that bridge is paid
for with taxes or debt.  The best argument for balanced budgets is that forcing
governments to pay for their spending with current taxes will
produce less wasteful spending. The past decade has done much to
illustrate the allure of spending without taxation in  Washington .
The rotation of the parties was supposed to cycle gently back
and forth between Democratic generosity and Republican thrift,
but that model disappeared in the 1980s. Instead, Democratic
taxing and spending is succeeded by Republican spending and not
taxing.  Political Pandering  And it’s hard to give any government much credit for
cutting taxes without cutting spending. That’s not political
courage; it’s pandering.  If we were confident that federal spending was delivering
great bang for the buck and that the U.S. was going to be much
richer in the future, then perhaps high interest payments could
be accepted as the cost of a better tomorrow. But there is
plenty of federal spending that could be cut, such as
agricultural subsidies, new highway construction and subsidies
for homebuilding in  Texas . Surely, not every dollar of defense
procurement is absolutely necessary.  State Beneficiaries  Another reason to favor more federal fiscal restraint is
that we could use a better balance between state and federal
spending. Over the past 50 years, the federal government has
become heavily involved in financing infrastructure, even when
those projects overwhelmingly serve in-state users and could be
funded with user fees. Why is it so obvious that the federal
government has a role in funding rail between Tampa and  Orlando ,
or a big tunnel in  Boston ?  Washington’s prominence is explained primarily by the
federal government’s ability to borrow, and not by any inherent
edge it has in infrastructure development. Federalizing
expenditures breaks the connection between the projects’ funders
and the projects’ users. Any instance when we’re spending other
people’s money is an invitation for waste.  States and localities saddled with balanced-budget rules
are relatively parsimonious and spend a fair amount of time
debating even relatively modest public investments. That’s far
more desirable than the federal government’s freedom to
distribute billions without imposing taxes on voters.  Responding to Downturns  The current system’s pathologies should leave us open to
the possibility of a new budgeting procedure, but the literature
on state balanced-budget rules teaches us that the devil is in
the details. In many cases, the  state rules  have weak teeth, and
do little. When they do work, they can seriously constrain a
state’s ability to  respond to downturns .  During the recent collapse, the federal ability to borrow
has thrown a lifeline to local governments, leading to greater
preservation of important local services, such as education.
Although the federal government could benefit from a little less
budgetary freedom, the states either need more ability to borrow
during downturns or more investment in rainy-day funds.  Any federal balanced-budget amendment should allow the
government to spend more than it collects in taxes during wars
and recessions, with the understanding that it will spend less
during peaceful times of plenty. If the budget is to be balanced,
it should be balanced over the business cycle, not year by year.  State of Emergency  But the crafting of such an amendment won’t be easy. The
most natural out, perhaps, is to allow Congress to declare an
economic emergency, which would temporarily eliminate the
budgetary straightjacket. But then what’s to prevent lawmakers
from declaring a perpetual state of emergency?  Another worry is that freezing the federal ability to
borrow will create more pseudo-borrowing through semi-public
entities, such as the mortgage lenders  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac .  I dreaded the prospect of  default  and would love to see a
system that ensures the books are regularly balanced except
during extreme times. A balanced-budget amendment might make
that happen, but it would have to be done right. It would be far
better if we could just count on Congress to live within its
means, but the fiscal experience of the last decade has made
such optimism untenable.  (Edward Glaeser, an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward L. Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 