-- 
Bangladesh Stocks Post Longest Losing Streak in Over Two Years

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 
2011-08-02T09:59:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/bangladesh-stocks-post-longest-losing-streak-in-over-two-years.html
Bangladesh ’s benchmark stock index
retreated for a seventh day, the longest losing streak in more
than two years, as some investors judged as excessive a rally
that propelled the gauge to more than a five-month high.  The Dhaka Stock Exchange’s General Index sank 2.7 percent
to 6,192.95 today, its steepest drop since June 12, as markets
closed early to mark the first day of the Muslim holy month of
Ramzan. The gauge dropped for a seventh day, the longest run of
losses since April 29, 2009, Bloomberg data show. The measure is
headed for its worst annual drop since 1998.  “The market had been rising and some investors have used
that as an opportunity to cash out,” said Reaz Islam, chief
executive officer of LR Global Bangladesh Asset Management Co.  The DSE General Index climbed 6.2 percent in June and 5.6
percent in July. It closed at 6,710.53 on July 24, the highest
level since Feb. 8. The gauge has declined 7.7 percent in the
seven sessions since then.  Stocks gained as the government revived an amnesty offer
that allows tax evaders to put their undisclosed wealth in
equities. Individuals hoarding so-called “black money” can buy
stocks with the cash after paying a flat 10 percent tax as
penalty, Finance Minister Abul Maal Abdul Muhith told lawmakers
in capital Dhaka on June 28.  The government aims to widen its tax net as unaccounted
money is estimated to account for at least 42 percent of the
nation’s $91 billion economy, Muhith said.  Bangladesh, where more than half of the 166 million people
don’t have access to electricity, aims to boost economic growth
to 8 percent within three years, from 5.8 percent last year,
central bank Governor Atiur Rahman said in April. The nation
will boost spending by a record 26 percent to an unprecedented
1.63 trillion taka, Muhith told lawmakers June 9.  “There is nothing to panic about. It’s time for long-term
investors to buy shares,” Islam of LR Global Bangladesh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  