-- 
Barclays, Solomon, Lance Armstrong Give Aspen Art Museum Boost

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-08-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/barclays-goldman-s-solomon-lance-armstrong-help-museum-raise-1-million.html
The  Aspen Art Museum ’s ArtCrush event
started seven years ago as a small party to get the ski haven
energized about art and wine while raising money for the
museum’s exhibitions.  This year, the 350 tickets for the three-day  event , which
begins tomorrow, were all gone before the announcement went out,
and there’s a waitlist of 100 hopefuls. While locals make up
many of the attendees, patrons and collectors now jet in from
 Los Angeles ,  London  and Mexico City.  “ArtCrush is a draw because it has a stellar exhibition
program, fun and philanthropic supporters, food and wine and, of
course, the fabulous setting of Aspen,” Heidi Zuckerman
Jacobson, the museum’s director and chief curator, said by
phone. “There’s just no place like it.”  The list of expected attendees includes David M. Solomon,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s co-head of  investment banking ;
Jennifer Blei Stockman, president of the Solomon R. Guggenheim
Foundation, and her husband, David A. Stockman, former budget
director under President  Ronald Reagan ; and Theodor Dalenson,
co-founder of the Stockholm-based venture capital firm Novestra
AB.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s wealth management unit found the event
attractive for its art-loving clients and agreed this month to
sponsor it for the next three years. The company will bring some
of its clients from around the U.S. to ArtCrush, Jacobson said.  Richard Avedon Photograph  The event, which seeks to raise $1.5 million, will honor
the work of visual artist and writer  Roni Horn , known for work
which sometimes mixes text and storytelling with photographs and
drawings. Among the highlights of Friday night’s auction will be
a work by Horn and a 1956 Richard Avedon photograph of the
iconic, willowy supermodel  Suzy Parker draped in a Dior evening
dress . An untitled work by New York-based Pakistani artist  Huma
Bhabha  also will be up for auction.  ArtCrush has become a magnet for current and new patrons as
the 32-year-old museum seeks to raise $50 million for its
capital campaign. So far, the institution, which has chosen to
focus on temporary exhibitions and not collect any art, has
raised $44 million. The museum is scheduled to move into its new
30,000-square-foot home, designed by Japanese architect Shigeru
Ban, in 2013.  “By not having a collection, we can focus on having a
dynamic and pro-active exhibition program,” Jacobson said.  Wine Tasting  The art lovers who also appreciate a fine Burgundy or
Bordeaux can indulge their palate at WineCrush, a dinner and
tasting event tomorrow night. It will be held at the Aspen home
of MSD Capital LP co-founder John Phelan and his wife, Amy
Phelan, a Guggenheim Museum board member. Seven-time Tour de
France winner  Lance Armstrong , who joined the Aspen Museum board
this year, is scheduled to attend.  At Friday night’s ArtCrush dinner and silent and live
auctions, sommeliers will serve more than 20 Italian, French and
Australian wines. The Burgundy list includes a 1990 La Tache and
a 1995 Echezeaux from  Domaine de la Romanee-Conti .  “People who are connoisseurs of art are also connoisseurs
of wine,” Jacobson said. “You get a holistic experience, and
all of the senses are covered by combining art with wine.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 