-- 
Barclays’ Absa Says First-Half Net Rose 19% on Fewer Bad Loan Impairments

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-08-02T15:08:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/barclays-s-absa-says-first-half-net-rose-19-on-fewer-bad-loan-impairments.html
Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , the South African
bank controlled by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , said first-half profit rose by
almost a fifth as bad loans declined.  Net income climbed to 4.58 billion rand ($681 million) from
3.84 billion rand a year earlier, the lender said in a statement
today. Earnings a share excluding one-time items, the company’s
main measure of profit, climbed to 6.41 rand, missing the 6.43-
rand median estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bad loans declined as a drop in  interest rates  to a 30-year
low helped consumers to service their borrowings. Impairments as
a percentage of loans to customers dropped to 1.18 percent from
1.5 percent in the year-earlier period. Increased bank charges
and customer transactions helped to drive a 10 percent increase
in the lender’s non-interest income, Absa also said.  “Improved non-interest revenue growth, lower credit
losses, better cost containment and a wider net interest
margin” were the main reasons for the profit boost,
Johannesburg-based Absa said. The environment is likely to
remain “challenging” it said.  The lender raised its half-year dividend to 2.92 rand from
2.25 rand in the year-earlier period. The stock climbed 1.06
rand, or 0.8 percent, to 134.01 rand at the 5 p.m. close in
Johannesburg trading. The stock is the second-worst performing
on the FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index this year, after falling 4.1
percent. Standard Bank Group Ltd. has dropped 10.2 percent.  ‘Solid Set of Results’  “They were a solid set of results, and we were very
pleased to see the increased dividend payout as the group sits
on a lot of surplus capital,” said Neville Chester, who helps
oversee the equivalent of $36 billion at Coronation Fund
Managers in  Cape Town .  The South African bank’s non-interest income will grow more
than 10 percent in the second half, Absa’s Finance Director
David Hodnett said on a conference call from Johannesburg today.
Lending will remain “pretty flat,” Chief Executive Officer
 Maria Ramos  told reporters.  “I would not expect the outlook to be any different,”
Chester said. “The economy is struggling and small businesses
and the consumer are struggling to make ends meet with all the
pressures of administered prices and weak demand in general.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  