-- 
Barclays Cuts 3,000 Jobs as Investment Bank Profit Declines

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-08-02T15:44:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/barclays-cuts-3-000-jobs-as-investment-bank-revenue-falls.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-
largest bank by assets, said it’s eliminating about 3,000 jobs
this year as second-quarter investment banking profit fell by
more than a quarter.  The bank has already cut 1,400 of the positions this year,
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond , 60, told reporters after
Barclays Capital reported a 27 percent decline in pretax profit
to 1.42 billion pounds ($2.31 billion) in the three months to
June 30. The total reduction in employee numbers in 2011 will be
of the “magnitude” of 3,000, Diamond said. The shares rose.  Bonus restrictions mean bank profits “take the hit when
volumes come down, when previously it was the staff -- it’s the
law of unintended consequences” said Jane Coffey, head of U.K.
Equities at Royal London Asset Management, which manages about
$51 billion including Barclays stock. “There are job cuts
across the City because most of the numbers have come down. They
are having to look at their cost base.”  European banks, including  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , have cut jobs during the past week after
reporting falls in second-quarter investment banking profit as
the continent’s sovereign debt crisis hurts trading. HSBC
yesterday pledged to eliminate 30,000 jobs by 2013, while Credit
Suisse said last week it will remove 2,000 posts. European banks
have slashed 230,000 jobs since the start of the financial
crisis in 2007, according to Bloomberg Industries.  ‘Really Fun’  “One of the key planks of our returns focus is our cost
program, and it’s been really fun,” Diamond said. “Not that
cutting costs is fun, but what’s been fun is that the executive
committee has really come together and we found so many
opportunities.”  The bank’s securities unit “significantly outperformed its
peers,” said Shailesh Raikundlia, an analyst at MF Global Ltd.
in  London . “This has come as a bit of a surprise.”  UBS and Credit Suisse last week said that second-quarter
earnings at their securities units dropped by 71 percent, while
Deutsche Bank AG and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  last month posted
earnings that missed estimates. HSBC yesterday announced pretax
profit at its securities unit fell by 12 percent.  “While the overall business environment for investment
banking services is not as strong as we would like, Barclays
Capital is on track to compete as a global top three player in
each of the major categories in which it operates,” Diamond
said.  Barclays fell by 0.1 percent to 216.75 pence at the close
in London, the third-best performance in the 46-member Bloomberg
500 Banks Index.  ‘Hoped for Better’  Barclays Capital ’s revenue from trading fixed-income,
currencies and commodities was down 24 percent on the year-
earlier period, compared with an industry average of 20 percent,
according to Alex Potter, a banking analyst at Berenberg Bank in
London. Revenue from equities was little changed, even after
Barclays “invested significant headcount,” he said.  “We would have hoped for better,” Potter said. “The
outlook statement looks pretty weak -- BarCap in July being
impacted by current market conditions.”  The bank’s cost-to-income ratio rose to 64 percent in the
first-half of 2011, from 62 percent a year-earlier, indicating
the bank’s efficiency has declined. HSBC’s cost-to-income ratio
was 58 percent from 51 percent, the bank said yesterday.  Return on Equity  Barclays’s net income for the six months to June 30 fell to
1.5 billion pounds, down from 2.43 billion pounds a year
earlier, it said in the statement, beating the 1.29 billion-
pound median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Pretax profit at the lender’s retail unit fell 63 percent to 446
million pounds, while the corporate and investment banking
business posted a 22 percent slide to 2.35 billion pounds.  Barclays posted a return on equity of 9.1 percent in the
first half compared with 6.9 percent for the year earlier
period. The lender cut its return on equity target in February
to 13 percent from an average of 18 percent over the past three
decades as higher  capital requirements  from regulators reduce
profitability.  “The figures are okay but the problem that the company
faces is not about these numbers,” said Julian Chillingworth,
who helps manage about 16 billion pounds, including Barclays
stock at Rathbone Brothers Plc in London. “They are much more
about how they are going to develop the BarCap franchise,
whether growing the investment banking arm is the right thing to
do.”  The Unite trade union, which represents some Barclays
staff, said it was “astounded” by Diamond’s comments on jobs.
“It is not encouraging for his workforce to hear such throwaway
comments from their boss about their future  job security ,” said
Andy Case, Unite officer.  Sovereign Debt  Some of the 3,000 job cuts will be in the U.K. if current
trends continue as expected, Diamond said at press conference
today.  Barclays set aside 1.83 billion pounds for bad loans in the
first half, from 3.08 billion pounds in the same period of last
year. The bank also set aside 1 billion pounds to compensate
clients for the mis-selling of  mortgage insurance , Barclays said
in the statement. The insurance covers payments on credit cards
and mortgages in case of illness or unemployment.  Barclays has reduced its Spanish sovereign debt holdings by
about 750 million pounds since June 30, Chief Risk Officer
Robert Le Blanc said.  The bank holds government debt worth about 10.9 billion
pounds in  Greece , Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and  Spain .  So far this year, Barclays has cut 700 posts at Barclays
Capital and 500 at its U.K. consumer unit. The bank said
employee costs rose 5 percent to 6.11 billion pounds in the
first six months of the year. It employs about 146,100 people
globally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  