-- 
Beatles Can Lure $4 Billion for EMI Using Warner Deal: Real M&A

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-08-02T02:12:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/beatles-can-lure-4-billion-for-emi-using-warner-deal-real-m-a.html
For potential bidders circling EMI
Group Ltd., the takeover of  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG)  may have
doubled the price tag for the money-losing music label that was
seized by its creditor just six months ago.  EMI, the London-based label of the Beatles and Katy Perry,
said it would consider selling itself a month after Warner Music
agreed to be acquired by billionaire Len Blavatnik for almost $3
billion, or 9.2 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Using the multiple paid for Warner Music and Ebitda
estimates from Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., EMI may be valued at
about $4 billion in a takeover, the data show.  That price would be as much as twice the $2 billion to $2.8
billion value Fitch Ratings estimated in January, a week before
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  took control of EMI for failing to meet debt
terms from  Guy Hands ’s $6.6 billion buyout in 2007. While free
downloads slashed profits, customers have started paying for
Apple Inc.’s iTunes and streaming service Spotify Ltd., fueling
optimism that the music industry is rebounding. Initial bidders
included Warner Music,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal
Music Group , said three people with knowledge of the matter.  “The amount of interest that was seen in Warner suggests
that there is a vibrant market for music assets,”  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Bernstein in London, said in a telephone
interview. “Valuations will still be fairly optimistic. You
might as well try to sell it while people are interested and
still conversant in the dynamics of the industry.”  10 Proposals  Offers for EMI have come from parties interested in the
whole company and in its individual businesses, said one person,
who declined to be identified because the negotiations are
private. At least 10 proposals were submitted, said another
person.  Dylan Jones, a spokesman for EMI, and Mark Costiglio, a
spokesman for Citigroup, declined to comment on the bidders and
a potential sale price.  Representatives for New York-based Warner Music, Sony of
 Tokyo  and  Universal Music  declined to comment on the bidding for
EMI. Universal Music is a unit of Paris-based Vivendi.  EMI has both production and publishing units that sign and
promote  singers  and songwriters such as Coldplay,  Snoop Dogg  and
 Pink Floyd . The company’s board said June 20 that it would
explore strategic alternatives, including a sale, initial public
offering or recapitalization.  Warner Music  Blavatnik’s Access Industries Inc. on May 6 agreed to buy
EMI’s rival Warner Music for $8.25 a share, valuing the company
at about $3 billion, including net debt, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The music label passed on an offer of $8.50 a
share from Sony, Guggenheim Partners and Ron Perelman, people
with knowledge of  Warner Music ’s auction, who declined to be
identified because the deliberations were private, said in May.  Rolando Larrondo, a credit analyst at Fitch in  New York ,
estimated Warner Music’s enterprise value, or the sum of its
equity and debt minus cash, at $2.2 billion in a Jan. 25
research note. His projection implied a multiple of 5.4 times
Ebitda, he said.  While Warner Music, the third-largest recorded music
company, has a good brand name and assets, the valuation was
“quite high” considering it’s not the market leader and had
already cut costs, Ian Whittaker, an analyst at  Liberum Capital 
Ltd. in London, said in a phone interview. The company was
acquired as music sales, particularly in the U.S., started to
“bottom out,” Whittaker said.  Return to Growth  “As the world moves toward more control of piracy and
different digital revenue models are attempted, sooner or later,
one of them will hit the right spot,” Bernstein’s Aspesi said.
“So there is opportunity in the next year to see revenue lines
stabilize and perhaps a return to growth.”  Based on declines at publicly-traded peers, Aspesi
estimates that EMI’s earnings have fallen 10 percent to 20
percent since it last reported Ebitda of 332 million pounds for
the year ended March 2010, the equivalent of $530 million based
on historical exchange rates. A 20 percent drop would leave EMI
with about $433 million in Ebitda in the 12 months through
March, based on current exchange rates, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Applying Warner Music’s 9.2 times Ebitda multiple, EMI may
draw bids of almost $4 billion in a sale, including about 900
pounds ($1.5 billion) of net debt disclosed in February.  Fitch estimated EMI’s value between $2 billion and $2.8
billion, based on the financial information available in January
before EMI’s recapitalization.  Music Comeback  “EMI will probably fetch more for Citi than originally
thought as more bidders have lined up and Warner Music produced
a better-than-expected price,”  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage $26
billion at Security Global Investors in Irvington, New York,
said in a phone interview. “Music assets appear to be making a
comeback. This is forcing investors to rethink the value of
these music assets and demand is growing again.”  Citigroup provided about 2.5 billion pounds ($5.1 billion)
of loans to finance Hands’s purchase of the company in August
2007 at the height of the leveraged buyout boom. The New York-
based bank never found investors willing to take on the debt it
provided for EMI as the financial crisis set in.  Citigroup seized control of EMI in February after the
company and its owner, Hands’s Terra Firma Capital Partners
Ltd., failed to meet the terms of loans used to buy the
business, in a deal valuing EMI at about 3.2 billion pounds
($6.6 billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company posted a net loss of 512 million pounds in the year
ended March 2010, the most recent period for which financial
results were reported.  ‘Looked Like Geniuses’  Hands, 51, said in a September speech that he and his firm
“would have looked like geniuses” had they not invested in EMI.  “There’s no doubt they overpaid for the asset in the first
place,” Liberum Capital’s Whittaker said. “It was a tough
environment. You had, as well, a general financial crisis, which
made it harder to refinance.”  Warner Music, whose  artists  include  Frank Sinatra  and Red
Hot Chili Peppers, is now in the hunt for EMI, along with
Universal Music, the world’s largest recorded music company, and
No. 2 Sony. Competition in the industry makes it difficult to
increase market share without acquisitions,  Standard & Poor’s 
said in a July 6 report.  To fund Blavatnik’s buyout, Warner Music was selling  junk
bonds  that include a feature that will make it easier to cut a
deal to buy EMI. The bond sale includes a portion of notes that
it can redeem for 104.75 cents on the dollar in the event of a
“major music transaction,” according to bond researcher KDP
Investment Advisors.  Spotify Subscribers  Consumers are increasingly paying for music online instead
of downloading songs from file-sharing websites for free.
 Spotify , the London-based online music service, began accepting
U.S. users in July. Subscribers get access to commercial-free
songs on demand that can play on mobile devices and computers. A
free version includes advertising. ITunes, started in 2003,
reported its 10 billionth song download in February 2010.  “What you could argue is the  music industry  declines are
starting to bottom out,” Whittaker said. “The bull argument on
music would be it is a product that people are continuing to
enjoy. The question has been for the past decade or so, how do
you monetize that? There may be some tentative signs they are
starting to find the right answer.”  Citigroup was seeking initial bids for EMI by the end of
July or early August, aiming to clinch a sale of the record
label within a couple of months, two people with knowledge of
the situation said in early July.  “This is the last of the majors, effectively, available,”
Bernstein’s Aspesi said. “So for anyone who wants to get into
the business or anyone who believes they can get regulatory
approval to consolidate the business, this is it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 