-- 
Berkowitz Says ‘Embrace the Hated’ as He Bets on AIG, Citigroup

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-08-02T14:54:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/berkowitz-says-embrace-the-hated-as-fairholme-wagers-on-aig-citigroup.html
Bruce Berkowitz , who oversees the
largest non-government stake in  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  and more than 20 million shares in  Citigroup Inc. (C) , said
stock of the bailed-out insurer and bank will rally.  “Our inclination remains to run from the popular and
embrace the hated where prices tend to reflect such mistrust,”
Berkowitz wrote in a report to investors who have money managed
by his firm, Fairholme Capital Management LLC. “Often, we are
ahead of the crowd, too early, and appear wrong for a time.”  Berkowitz, 53, is seeking to reassure investors after his
Fairholme Fund lost 9.4 percent during the first half of the
year, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 6 percent,
counting reinvested dividends. The fund boosted its stake in New
York-based AIG by 57.3 million shares in the six months ended
May 31 at a cost of $1.71 billion, according to the report, for
an average of about $29.86 a share.  AIG dropped 44 cents to $28.15 at 10:20 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading and has declined about 42
percent since Dec. 31.  “When a recovering icon trades at half of our
understanding of intrinsic value for a reason that has nothing
to do with its prospects, we swing big,” Berkowitz wrote of
AIG. The insurer is undervalued “due mostly to market pressures
caused by the  U.S. Treasury ’s desire to sell its 77 percent
ownership.” Berkowitz’s remarks were posted on  Business Wire 
late yesterday.  Treasury Department Stake  The Treasury Department converted its preferred stake in
AIG into 92 percent of the insurer’s common stock in January.
That holding was reduced in May when the government and AIG
raised $8.7 billion in a share sale. The government now holds
about 1.46 billion shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Fairholme Fund held 94.8 million shares of the bailed-out
insurer as of May 31, when the stake was valued at $2.7 billion,
according to the report. The holding was accumulated at a cost
of about $3.1 billion.  The fund is also among the largest investors in  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , the largest bank.  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX)  held 77.3
million shares in the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender as
of May 31, according to the report.  “Financials with enormous cash flows and diminishing
restructuring expenses for the illogical extremes of 2006/2007”
are at a tipping point, wrote Berkowitz. “Their pre-provision,
pretax earnings power is compelling,” he said, citing New York-
based Citigroup and Bank of America.  Berkowitz was named the U.S. domestic stock fund manager of
the decade last year by Morningstar Inc., a Chicago-based
research firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  