-- 
Berlusconi Says Italy Is ‘Up to the Task’ on Debt Crisis as Economy Solid

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-08-03T17:17:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/berlusconi-to-address-italy-on-crisis-as-bonds-stocks-slump.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ,
facing record bond yields and calls for his resignation, said
Italy is “up to the task” of tackling the debt crisis as its
economic fundamentals are solid.  “Our banks are liquid, they passed the stress tests, and
Italian families are less indebted than others among the major
economies,” Berlusconi said today in a speech to the Chamber of
Deputies, the lower house of Parliament. “If to our deficit we
add the savings of our families, we’d be second in the European
Union in terms of solidity.”  Pier Luigi Bersani, leader of the main opposition
 Democratic Party , repeated a call for the premier to resign.
Berlusconi, who reiterated that his government will see out the
end of its term in 2013, is due to address the Senate at 7:30
p.m. in another speech on the state of  Italy ’s economy.  Spanish and Italian bonds rose for the first time in six
days today and yields eased from euro-era highs as European
policy makers stepped up talks on how to prevent the debt crisis
from spiralling out of control. Confidence in Italy has been
further shaken by political turmoil, with Berlusconi’s grip on
power weakened by corruption allegations against him and some of
his main allies.  “Markets are going to remain volatile,” Fabio Fois, an
economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London , said by phone after the
speech. “It’s good that Berlusconi talked about focusing on
growth, on industrial relations and liberalizing the economy as
those are things the market can understand, but they are going
to have to deliver.”  Aid Plan  Berlusconi has barely spoken publicly since the selloff of
Italy accelerated last month in the run-up to an EU summit on
July 21. That meeting adopted the new aid plan for Greece and
established a mechanism to aid countries facing surging
borrowing costs such as Italy and  Spain  before they require
bailouts. Opposition parties had publicly called on Berlusconi
to address the nation.  The extra yield premium investors demand to hold Italy’s
10-year bond instead of German bunds narrowed after Berlusconi’s
speech to 368 basis points, after earlier reaching 391, a euro-
era record.  European Commission President Jose Barroso today urged
governments to quickly approve a planned upgrade of the euro-
area rescue fund, saying the perception that leaders haven’t
found a “systemic” answer to the crisis is hurting investor
sentiment. Berlusconi said investors still “haven’t recognized
the power” of the changes to the 440 billion-euro ($630
billion) fund announced by European leaders at a July 21 summit.  Bailout Vote  Italy’s Parliament will vote to approve a new package of
financial support for  Greece  and other indebted European
countries around mid-September, a person with knowledge of the
decision said today.  The vote will cover all changes approved at the European
level to the European Financial Stability Facility, including an
agreement on July 21 to allow the fund to buy bonds on the
secondary market and to help recapitalize banks, said the
person, who declined to be identified, citing policy.  Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  met in Luxembourg earlier
today with Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the
group of euro-area finance ministers. “We had a long discussion
visiting all the problems the euro area is facing and we’ll
continue our meditation in common,” Juncker told reporters
after the talks, which Tremonti called “long and fruitful.”  Bersani said after Berlusconi’s speech that Italy “is in
big trouble” and needs a change of leadership to restore
credibility to its politics and regain investor faith.  The government opposes any move to bring it down and
install a temporary “technocratic” cabinet to oversee
structural reforms, Angelino Alfano, head of Berlusconi’s People
of Liberty party, told the Chamber.  “When Italians hear that term, they smell taxes,” said
Alfano, the former justice minister.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 