-- 
Best Consumer Spending Forecaster DeKaser Sees U.S. Rebound

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-02T20:13:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/best-u-s-consumer-spending-forecaster-dekaser-sees-rebound-in-second-half.html
Richard DeKaser , the best forecaster
of U.S. consumer spending, projects expenditures will “rebound
somewhat” in the second half of the year, reflecting the drop
in fuel costs and a recovery in auto sales.  The deputy chief economist at the Boston-based Parthenon
Group calls for a 2.5 percent gain in spending in the second
half of the year and 1.7 percent next year. Purchases rose at a
0.1 percent annual rate in the second quarter, the worst
performance in two years, according to Commerce Department data.  Gasoline prices that rose to a two-year high of $3.99 a
gallon in early May have fallen about 30 cents on average,
giving households more money to buy other goods and services.
Auto and parts shortages prompted by  Japan ’s March earthquake
have eased, paving the way for a pickup in car output and sales,
DeKaser said.  “With energy prices now lower, and car inventories and
production improving, consumer spending is likely to rebound
somewhat,” said DeKaser, whose projections for the two years
ended in June were the most accurate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. “Part of the recent slowdown reflects temporary
developments that have largely played out.”  Early figures bear out DeKaser’s view. Auto sales rose to a
12.2 million unit annual rate in July from 11.4 million the
prior month, according to industry data issued today. It was
automakers’ best performance in three months.  Second-Quarter Slump  Household purchases unexpectedly fell in June for the first
time in almost two years and savings climbed, figures from the
Commerce Department showed today. Purchases declined 0.2 percent
after a 0.1 percent gain the prior month. DeKaser, 51, forecast
a 0.1 percent advance for the month.  DeKaser, working with chief economist Roger Brinner, said
Parthenon will probably lower gross domestic product forecasts
next week following government revisions that showed the 2007-
2009 recession was deeper than previously reported.  DeKaser said the scheduled expiration in December of a 2
percent payroll tax cut and of Bush-era reductions late next
year would weigh further on consumers already coping with high
debt loads and stagnant wages. “It’s going to be a long, slow
grind for  consumer spending ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  