-- 
Bloomberg Television Announces Content Partnership with RBC TV

-- B y  
-- 
2011-08-02T17:24:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/bloomberg-television-announces-content-partnership-with-rbc-tv.html

Press Release  Bloomberg TV to serve as the primary provider of business
financial news video and television content on foreign markets
for RBC TV  New York, London and Moscow -- RBC OJSC (MICEX, RTS: RBCM) and
Bloomberg Television today announced that beginning August 2nd,
Bloomberg TV will serve as the primary provider of business and
financial news video and television content on foreign markets
for RBC TV, the largest dedicated 24-hour Russian business and
financial news channel. RBC TV broadcasts in the Russian
language to more than 90 million people across  Russia  and
neighboring countries.  “We’re pleased to offer a daily selection of original Bloomberg
TV videos, interviews and reports to RBC TV viewers,” said
Malcolm Fried, Managing Editor for Bloomberg Television in
 Europe , the Middle East and  Africa .  “As business leaders around
the world have come to rely on Bloomberg TV for trusted,
accurate and up-to-date business news, Russian-language viewers
can now benefit from our award-winning interviews and
reporting.”  “As the leading business mass media in Russia, RBC TV is
constantly expanding its audience base which consists of
decision-makers in the Russian economy that need broad-based and
professional coverage of the latest trends and developments in
foreign markets.  In partnering with Bloomberg TV, we will
provide our viewers with access to the most up-to-date and
comprehensive financial information and news in the world’s
largest markets,” said RBC CEO, German Kaplun.  As part of the agreement, Bloomberg Television, which provides
continuous coverage of the companies, people and ideas that move
markets, will provide original interviews, news reporting and
other programming that will be translated into Russian on a
daily basis for RBC TV’s use. With studios in New York,  London 
and  Hong Kong , Bloomberg TV draws upon the resources of over
2,300 media professionals in more than 146 bureaus in 72
countries to offer comprehensive coverage of business, economic
and political news.  For more information on Bloomberg Television, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/tv/ .  Owned and operated by RBC, RBC TV is the largest specialized
business channel focused on coverage of business, financial,
economic and political news from Russia and around the world,
including interviews with business leaders and policy makers,
research by Russian and foreign experts, live reports, as well
as special programs devoted to Russian business. RBC TV
broadcasts its programming to all large cities across Russia,
the CIS and the Baltic states and has a monthly audience of more
than 17 million viewers in Russia alone. Viewers can also
receive RBC TV’s programming in hotels across Western Europe,
North Africa,  Middle East  and Central Asia. The network was
originally launched in September 2003.
For more information on RBC TV, please visit
 http://rbctv.rbc.ru/  and www.rbcholding.com.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries. Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  About RBC  RBC is one of Russia’s largest media holdings, operating in
three key sectors of the  media industry : the Internet,
television and print media. RBC is the absolute leader in the
business information segment in Russia and the CIS. RBC ranks
among the top four largest Internet companies in Russia and
unites the www.rbc.ru business information portal, www.qip.ru
portal, which offers its users advanced communication means,
entertainment services and topical information, as well as a
number of other niche online resources and services. RBC’s
consolidated Internet audience exceeds 55m unique users.
Technical penetration of the largest business television channel
in the country - RBC TV - equals around 90m viewers in Russia
and the CIS. RBC’s printed publications also hold leadership
positions on the market. High quality of RBC’s media products
and their popularity among target audiences have allowed the
company to form a large and loyal client base: the number of
advertisers spending budgets on RBC’s media resources exceeds
5,500.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Jocelyn Austin, 212-617-3578,  jbaustin@bloomberg.net   Contact for RBC:  Maria Sorokina, Marina Stafeeva, +7-495-363-1111,  ir@rbc.ru 
