-- 
BNP Paribas Profit Gains 1.1% as Consumer Banking Cushions Greek Debt Loss

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-08-02T10:32:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/bnp-paribas-profit-gains-1-1-as-consumer-banking-cushions-greek-debt-loss.html
BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Europe ’s largest
lender by assets, said second-quarter profit advanced 1.1
percent as higher consumer-banking earnings helped cushion a
loss on its Greek government-debt holdings.  Net income rose to 2.13 billion euros ($3.04 billion) from
2.11 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based bank said in
a statement today. The average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was for profit of 2.06 billion euros. The company
took a 534 million-euro writedown on its Greek sovereign debt.  “This is exactly the conservative and sound provisioning
that you would expect BNP Paribas to provide for,” Chief
Executive Officer  Baudouin Prot , 60, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “Everyone who bets against  Greece  or
against the  euro zone , I hope that they lose.”  BNP Paribas joins  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Germany ’s  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  in writing down holdings of Greek government debt after
signing the Institute of International Finance’s rescue plan
last month. It requires investors to take a 21 percent loss on
holdings that mature by 2020.  Credit Agricole ,  France ’s second-
largest bank by assets, said last week the support plan for
Greece will cost it about 150 million euros.  BNP Paribas was little changed at 43.67 euros by 11:27 a.m.
in Paris trading. The shares have dropped 8.5 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of 52.6 billion euros.  Retail Banking Surges  BNP Paribas gets most of its revenue from France,  Belgium ,
Luxembourg and  Italy  and the company also owns BancWest, a
network of branches in the U.S. Through its purchase of Fortis
in 2009, the lender also added clients in faster-growing
economies such as Turkey and Poland.  Pretax profit at the consumer-banking business climbed 27
percent to 1.55 billion euros, helped by earnings at the French
retail-banking network, which rose 11 percent to 536 million
euros. Profit before tax at BancWest increased to 177 million
euros from 153 million euros a year earlier, the company said.  Provisions for doubtful loans in the second quarter
increased to 1.35 billion euros from 1.08 billion euros a year
earlier, hurt by the provision on Greek sovereign debt maturing
before the end of 2020, the bank said. Excluding the Greek loss,
provisions fell.  “We should have a continuation of a slight decrease in
cost of risk in the next quarters,” Prot told reporters in
Paris today. The provisions level at the Italian consumer-
banking unit will probably continue “a gradual and moderate
decline,” he said. BNP Paribas expects to keep recording
provision reversals at its corporate- and investment-banking
unit in the coming quarters, the CEO said.  ‘Considerable Volatility’  Pretax profit at the corporate- and investment-banking
division climbed 2.4 percent to 1.33 billion euros, higher than
analysts’ average estimate of 1.31 billion euros. Revenue at the
unit rose 5.7 percent as equity-and-advisory sales more than
doubled, helping mitigate a 12 percent decline in fixed-income
revenue that was hurt by “considerable volatility in the debt
and credit markets,” the company said.  “The retail bank’s base is very solid and the CIB didn’t
sink as others did,” said Alex Koagne, a Paris-based analyst at
Natixis SA who has a “buy” rating on the stock.  Deutsche Bank said last week its corporate banking and
securities unit had a 26 percent increase in pretax profit in
the second quarter. Earnings at the investment-bank divisions at
UBS AG, the biggest Swiss lender, and Credit Suisse Group AG,
the second largest, both tumbled 71 percent in the period as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis reduced revenue.  No Staff Reductions  Prot said the bank has no plans for cutting staff at the
investment-banking unit and that there’s “no reason to make any
brutal adjustments” in the division’s cost structure.  “It isn’t at all our intention to make reductions in  Asia 
or anywhere else,” the CEO said.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-largest bank by assets, said
today it will eliminate 3,000 jobs this year as investment
banking pretax profit fell 27 percent. The London-based bank has
cut 700 posts at  Barclays Capital  and 500 at its U.K. consumer-
banking unit this year.  BNP Paribas, like New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co., took
advantage of competitors’ woes to make takeovers during the
financial crisis, swelling its balance sheet. The bank became
the biggest lender by deposits in the euro region with the
purchase of Fortis’s assets in Belgium and Luxembourg.  BNL Provisions  BNP Paribas’s Italian retail network, Banca Nazionale del
Lavoro SpA, had 129 million euros in pretax profit, up 25
percent from a year earlier, the company said. The Europe-
Mediterranean division, which includes consumer-banking networks
in countries such as Turkey, Ukraine and  Egypt , had a 40
million-euro pretax profit, compared with 20 million euros a
year earlier, BNP Paribas said.  Pretax earnings at the investment-solutions unit, which
includes asset management, private banking and insurance, rose
16 percent to 549 million euros.  BNP Paribas can comply with new Basel III capital rules
without selling new shares, Prot said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 