-- 
Bow Energy Shares Advance in Sydney Trading Amid Takeover Talk

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-02T08:08:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/bow-energy-shares-advance-in-sydney-trading-amid-takeover-talk.html
Bow Energy Ltd. (BOW)  gained 19 percent in
two days in Sydney trading amid speculation the Australian coal-
seam gas explorer may be an acquisition target.  Brisbane-based Bow rose 8.5 percent today to A$1.215 at the
4:10 p.m. close in Sydney, valuing the company at A$426 million
($464 million). That followed a 9.8 percent rise yesterday.  Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-biggest oil and gas producer,
agreed in July to pay about A$730 million for the shares in
 Eastern Star Gas Ltd. (ESG)  it didn’t already own. Demand for eastern
Australian natural gas is expected to more than triple by 2020,
Adelaide-based Santos said in a July 18 statement  “There has been intense speculation about the coal-seam-gas
sector ever since Santos’ bid for Eastern Star,”  Michael McCarthy , Sydney-based chief market strategist at CMC Markets
Asia Pacific Pty Ltd., said in an e-mail, without citing any
potential acquirers. With its market valuation “Bow Energy
would seem to be an easy acquisition,” he said.  Bow isn’t aware of any information it hasn’t already
disclosed to the market that may explain the gain in the shares,
Andrew Barber, investor relations manager, said by phone today.  “The company remains in discussion with a number of
potential off-take or joint venture partners,” he said.  One possible destination for its gas is Gladstone,
Queensland state, where more than A$50 billion of liquefied
natural gas projects are being built, Bow has said.
ConocoPhillips and its partner Origin Energy Ltd. last week
approved the first phase of an LNG venture, following rival
projects approved by Santos and  BG Group Plc. (BG/)   “Bow has attracted more attention since the Eastern Star
transaction,”  Andrew Williams , a Melbourne-based analyst at RBC
Capital Markets, said by phone today. “Bow potentially
represents the largest uncommitted gas potential of scale.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 