-- 
Brazil, India and South Africa Must Do More to Be Powers: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-02T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/brazil-india-and-south-africa-must-do-more-to-be-powers-view.html
With this summer’s debt-ceiling
fiasco, it is clearer than ever that  Washington ’s leadership is
not what it used to be. For that reason, there is a greater need
for the U.S. to act in concert with other major powers to solve
international problems.  Much attention has justifiably focused on Brazil,  Russia ,
 India , China and  South Africa  -- the so-called BRICS -- as a
group of economically rising countries that could play a growing
role in stabilizing their regions and helping the West promote a
rules-based international system. Unfortunately, these nations
don’t share the same interests and values, and are unlikely to
act collectively. Three of the five -- India, Brazil and South
 Africa  -- often don’t seem to demonstrate the awareness that
international leadership comes with responsibilities as well as
privileges.  The BRICS can be divided into two groups.  China  and Russia
have a history of international influence and are nuclear powers
with permanent seats on the  United Nations Security Council .  That isn’t the case of the three other BRICS. India has a
long history, but is a relatively new state. South Africa
emerged from apartheid-era isolation in 1994. And Brazil has
only recently begun to live up to its promise. All have the
potential to become global powers. But to do so, they must show
they are willing and able to take on the burden of promoting and
enforcing a rules-based international system. The U.S. and its
allies should encourage that transition by calling on those
three nations to support UN peacekeeping, provide poorer states
with development assistance, and uphold universal values of
democracy and human rights at home and abroad.  Improved Peacekeeping  India, Brazil and South Africa are strong supporters of the
UN. All three believe they should be permanent members of an
enlarged Security Council. All three have capable militaries
that would strengthen UN peacekeeping and possibly free European
troops for more difficult missions, such as Afghanistan.  Yet, as of April, only India was a major contributor to
such missions. Within  South America , Uruguay, which has a
population of about 3.5 million people, had  contributed more
soldiers , police or experts to UN operations than Brazil, which
has more than 200 million inhabitants. Among African countries,
South Africa’s contribution was less than that of  Egypt ,
 Ethiopia ,  Ghana ,  Nigeria , Rwanda or Senegal. India had fewer
troops, police and experts under UN command than its much
smaller neighbors, Pakistan or Bangladesh.  Providing development assistance and training is another
way that these three rising nations can show their global bona
fides. All have started the transition from recipients of
assistance to donors, but they need to do more. India has made
the most impressive start. In 2008,  New Delhi   spent almost $550
million  in civilian assistance to poorer countries. At $1.3
billion, its multiyear aid program in  Afghanistan  is
substantial, and its assistance to Africa has been growing more
than 20 percent a year.  Brazil’s foreign-assistance budget, by contrast, was a  mere
$50 million in 2010 . Most of this money is directed to  Latin
America  and to Portuguese-speaking parts of Africa. The
Brazilian contribution to the UN’s  World Food Program  increased
to a planned $27 million this year from $1 million in 2009, but
that is still a small sum for a country with a nominal gross
domestic product of more than $2.2 trillion.  South Africa is furthest behind, though debate has begun on
the importance of a generous assistance program. As Ayanda
Ntsaluba, the official formerly in charge of international
cooperation, put it: “ Aid is not just about reducing poverty,
it’s a very strategic investment. To become a big player, you
need your own aid program. ” We agree.  Support for Democracy  A willingness to lead at least in your own region is a key
indicator of global responsibility. That is why  Brazil , India
and South Africa’s reluctance to stand up for democratic values
is so troubling. All three countries are justifiably proud of
their success in building democracy at home, and all have made
respect for international law a pillar of their foreign
policies. Yet, when the time comes to be counted, all have been
absent.  India, for example, says it opposes  Iran ’s nuclear program
and the government’s denial of democracy to its people, but New
Delhi has muted its public criticism of Tehran’s behavior on
both counts. As the world’s largest democracy and a country with
longstanding ties to Iran, India could carry great weight in the
developing world with a strong Indian condemnation of Tehran’s
human-rights violations and defiance of  Security Council 
resolutions.  South Africa has adopted a similarly short-sighted policy
toward the regime of President Robert Mugabe of  Zimbabwe . Behind
the scenes Pretoria put pressure on Mugabe to agree to a power-
sharing arrangement with his opponents, but South Africa’s
criticism of the destruction of democracy in Zimbabwe has been
so soft that Nelson Mandela was  moved to complain . Brasilia, for
its part, has been silent about the attacks on democracy and
businesses by Venezuela’s Hugo Chavez.  The equation is a simple one. The more Brazil, India and
South Africa take on international responsibility, the more they
earn a voice in international decision making. But if they
continue to see world leadership as a privilege that comes
solely as a result of their growing economies, they shouldn’t be
surprised if they are treated as future leaders rather than
current ones.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 