-- 
Brazil Cuts $16 Billion in Taxes to Aid Industry Hurt by Real Rally, China

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 
2011-08-02T22:40:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/brazil-s-industrial-output-falls-1-6-in-june.html
Brazil  will provide $16 billion in
tax breaks and toughen trade barriers to protect manufacturers
hurt by a currency rally that’s fueling a surge in imports from
China.  The targeted tax breaks and incentives, which amount to 25
billion reais over two years, were announced today by President
 Dilma Rousseff  after a report showed industrial production
plunged 1.6 percent in June, the second biggest drop since 2008.  The plan, called “A Bigger Brazil,” will eliminate a 20
percent payroll tax for industries such as shoemakers and
software firms hurt by the real’s 48 percent rally since the end
of 2008, which has reduced the cost of imports and strengthened
decades-old complaints by business about excessive costs. It
also features a mandate to favor local suppliers in government
purchases even when they are underbid by foreign competitors.  “This is the first step to boost Brazil’s competitiveness
relying on innovation, demanding more added value and combating
unfair and fraudulent practices by competitors,” Rousseff said
at an event in Brasilia to unveil the policies.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the targeted tax breaks
for four industries may be extended at a later date and will be
partially offset by an additional tax of at least 1.5 percent
that these companies will pay on sales, he said. The tax changes
will cost the Treasury 1.3 billion reais a year, Industrial
Development and Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel said.  Spending, Taxes  Deputy Finance Minister Nelson Barbosa told reporters in
Brasilia that the government may cut spending to compensate for
the tax cuts to boost output.  The  Finance Ministry  may also increase taxes on other
goods to ensure the tax breaks announced today won’t hurt
Rousseff’s bid to improve fiscal accounts, said a government
official who asked not to be named no decision has been made.
Barbosa said the goverenment is discussing an increase on cigarette taxes.  Part of the tax cuts will also be offset by a higher tax on
financial operations levied on consumer loans earlier this year,
Barbosa said.  “The government’s tax collection is increasing, giving
room for tax cuts to exporters,” said  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist at CM Capital Markets Ltda.  Federal revenue rose to 465.6 billion reais in the first
six months of the year from 388.5 billion reais a year ago,
according to the Tax Agency’s website.  Tariffs, Automakers  Brazil will also provide tax credits to exporters of
industrial goods equal to 0.5 percent of their sales abroad, and
may later raise the amount to 3 percent.  The government also plans to toughen anti-dumping rules,
extend tax breaks for another year on the purchase of capital
goods and speed up repayment of credits owed to companies. State
development bank BNDES will also step up financing for
factories.  To protect against cheaper imports, the government will ask
 Argentina  and other partners in the Mercosur trade bloc to raise
tariffs on about 100 products. Incentives to automakers that
create jobs are still under study, Mantega said.  The real has rallied 6.4 percent in the past six months,
the second-best performer among 25 major emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The currency strengthened even
after the government raised levies on capital inflows and
boosted taxes on bets against the dollar in the futures market.  ‘Currency War’  “Countries are manipulating their currencies to
artificially increase their competitiveness -- that is what we
call the currency war,” Mantega said today. “The domestic
market needs to be for the benefit of Brazilian industry, not
for the adventurers that come from abroad.”  The real was little changed today at 1.5673 per  U.S.
dollar .  The currency rally is taking its toll on manufacturers even
as domestic demand remains robust in the wake of the fastest
economic growth last year in two decades. The 1.6 percent plunge
in industrial output in June reported today by the national
statistics agency was four times the median estimate for a 0.4
percent contraction in a Bloomberg survey of 30 analysts.  Production of  consumer goods  fell 2 percent in the month.
Twenty of 27 industries saw assembly lines reduce output in
June. Manufacturing of capital goods, a barometer of investment,
fell 1.9 percent.  The measures announced today are positive because they
don’t try to intervene in the  currency market , Flavio Serrano,
senior economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  Sao Paulo ,
said in a telephone interview.  Trade Balance  While the price of Brazil’s iron ore and soy shipments to
 China  surged in the first seven months of the year, offsetting
the currency gains and fueling a 75 percent increase in the
country’s trade surplus, exports of cars and airplanes fell 8
percent and 14 percent respectively.  Imports surged 32 percent to $140.6 billion in the first
seven months of the year, according to the Industrial
Development and Trade Ministry’s website.  The  Sao Paulo Industrial Federation  said in May that the
country’s trade gap in manufactured goods will widen this year
to $100 billion from $71 billion in 2010. Almost half of
Brazilian exporters lost market share abroad in the past 12
months, according to a survey of 1,569 companies by the National
Industrial Confederation published yesterday.  “We need a potent group of measures as we try to live with
an adverse  exchange rate ,” Flavio Castelo Branco, chief
economist at the National Industrial Confederation, said in a
phone interview yesterday. A heavy tax burden, and higher labor
and logistics costs in Brazil, “were disguised by the currency
when one dollar was worth three reais.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  