-- 
California Joins Six U.S. States Banning Beer Drinks Laced With Caffeine

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-08-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/california-s-new-law-takes-the-caffeine-kick-out-of-alcoholic-beverages.html
California became the seventh state
to ban beer drinks laced with caffeine, which gained attention
last year when nine  Washington  college students were
hospitalized after downing cans of such a malt beverage.  Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, signed a  bill  yesterday
that prohibits the sale of “beer to which caffeine has been
directly added as a separate ingredient.”  State Senator Alex Padilla, the Pacoima Democrat who wrote
the legislation, said in a  statement  that the drinks often are
sold in “flashy” 23.5-ounce cans and marketed to underage
drinkers. Caffeine and other stimulants, such as taurine and
guarana, tend to mask the effects of alcohol, Padilla said.  “Caffeinated beer beverages have been marketed to youth
and are a threat to public health,” Padilla said in the July 14
statement as the bill went to Brown’s desk. “The added caffeine
masks the effects of the high alcohol content, which can lead to
binge drinking and dangerous behavior.”  The banned drinks had all but disappeared from stores by
the time Padilla introduced his bill, said Michael Michail,
chief executive officer of Los Angeles-based  United Brands Co.
Inc. , whose Joose beverage was targeted by the law.  “I don’t know why he’s pushing for it,” Michail said by
phone July 25. “There used to be a category of drinks. Today
there isn’t.”  The new law is intended to keep the category from re-
emerging, Padilla’s chief of staff, Bill Mabie, said in an e-
mail July 26.  “The senator’s bill would codify an explicit ban on these
beverages, effectively eliminating this possibility,” he said.  Other States  Massachusetts ,  New York , Washington,  Utah ,  Michigan  and
 Kansas  already have prohibited malt beverages that contain
caffeine, according to Padilla’s statement. The laws don’t apply
to bar drinks such as Irish coffee.  Central Washington University banned the drinks in October
when nine freshmen were hospitalized after drinking a fruity
alcoholic beverage known as Four Loko at a party.  Four Loko, manufactured by Chicago-based  Phusion Projects
LLC , was one of three drinks singled out when the California
Senate approved Padilla’s bill in April. The others were Joose,
made by United Brands in  San Diego , and Tilt, a product of
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s largest brewer.  A month after the Central Washington incident, the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  threatened to seize alcohol-laced
energy drinks. Phusion Products then said it would remove the
caffeine from its Four Loko drinks. Chris Short, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail that Padilla’s bill won’t affect
Four Loko sales in  California , which he called “one of our
stronger markets.”  Answering Call  Anheuser-Busch’s Tilt beverage also no longer contains
caffeine, Andrew Baldonado, a company regional vice president,
said in an e-mail.  “We took this action in response to state attorneys
general who asked several malt beverage companies to stop
selling pre-packaged caffeinated alcohol beverages,”
Baldonado’s statement said. “We were pleased to be the first
company to answer the call.”  Joose had from 6 percent and 12 percent alcohol and 180
parts per million of caffeine, less per ounce than carbonated
colas, Michail said in a  news release  in November. A month
later, his company removed the stimulants from its drink in
response to FDA pressure, he said in a phone interview.  “Has doing that hurt our business?” he asked. “Yes, it
has. A lot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  