-- 
Canadian Dollar Declines to Two-Week Low on Concern Global Growth Slowing

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-08-02T21:17:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/canadian-dollar-falls-to-two-week-low-on-concern-global-growth-is-slowing.html
Canada ’s dollar dropped to a two-week
low versus the greenback as concern the global economy is
slowing reduced demand for higher-yielding assets.  Canada’s 30-year bond yield fell for the sixth straight
day, sliding to a record low 3.16 percent, according to
Bloomberg data beginning in December 1990. The Canadian currency
slid against the yen and Swiss franc as stocks declined on an
unexpected reduction in U.S. consumer spending. President  Barack Obama  signed legislation to raise the debt ceiling after it was
passed by Congress.  “Global growth concerns have re-emerged in the markets,”
said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at Travelex
Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange network. “Any
time we see weaker-than-expected U.S. indicators, that tends to
cause the loonie to fall in sympathy.”  The Canadian currency weakened 0.5 percent to 96.13 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in New York, from 95.70 cents
yesterday. It touched 96.19, the weakest level since July 18.
One Canadian dollar buys $1.0403.  The loonie, as the currency is also known, remained lower
as Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said the U.S. and
 Europe  should refrain from “draconian” measures to curb their
deficits that could undermine the recovery.  Flaherty, speaking to reporters in Mississauga, Ontario,
said the U.S. needs a “medium-term” plan for debt control to
bolster investor confidence.  U.S. Debt Accord  Obama signed the debt-limit compromise preventing a default
on the day the Treasury had warned the nation’s borrowing
authority would expire. The Senate voted 74-26 for the measure,
which raises the debt ceiling until 2013 and threatens automatic
spending cuts to enforce $2.4 trillion in spending reductions
over the next 10 years. The House passed the plan yesterday.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.6 percent, while the
S&P/TSX Composite Index decreased 1.5 percent. Futures on crude
oil, Canada’s biggest export, dropped 1.7 percent to $93.26 a
barrel after sliding 0.9 percent yesterday.  The price of the 4 percent Canadian bond maturing in June
2041 increased C$2.36 to C$116.03. The yield was down 11 basis
points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 3.17 percent after touching
the record low.  “Canadian bonds in the long end are basically trading in
tandem with what’s going on in the U.S.,” said  Dean Popplewell ,
head analyst at the online currency trader Oanda Corp. in
Toronto. “The market’s starting to question the potential of
further austerity measures being implemented by the  Federal
Reserve , and investors are gravitating toward longer ends of the
yield curves, where they can actually grab some yield.”  Bond Yields  The U.S. 30-year bond yields fell as much as 18 basis
points to 3.90 percent, the most on an intraday basis since May
2010. America’s 10-year note yields touched 2.60 percent, the
lowest level since November, when the central bank started its
$600 billion round of Treasury purchases to keep borrowing costs
low, a program that ended in June.  The greenback rallied today against most of its major
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg as investors sought refuge
from a slowing global economy.  Consumer spending  in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trading
partner, unexpectedly dropped in June for the first time in
almost two years, the Commerce Department reported.  Purchases decreased 0.2 percent after a 0.1 percent gain in
the prior month. The median estimate of 77 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News was for a 0.1 percent increase.  Reports on Payrolls  U.S. payrolls climbed by 85,000 workers last month after an
increase in June of 18,000, the smallest this year, according to
the median forecast of 81 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before the Labor Department’s report Aug. 5.  “The market is obviously concerned about the employment
numbers,” Popplewell said. “They are expected to be slightly
on the soft side, and the market is happily applying risk-averse
trading strategies.”  Canadian employers added fewer net jobs in July than in the
prior month, according to the median forecast of 26 economists
before the report from  Statistics Canada , also on Aug. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in  New York  at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  