-- 
Capital Shopping Profit Jumps on Purchase of Manchester’s Trafford Centre

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-08-02T16:51:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/capital-shopping-profit-jumps-on-purchase-of-manchester-s-trafford-centre.html
Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc (CSCG) ,
the U.K.’s biggest shopping-mall owner, said first-half profit
excluding items rose 53 percent, boosted by January’s purchase
of Manchester’s Trafford Centre and higher rental income.  Profit excluding changes to asset values and one-time items
rose to 66.3 million pounds ($108 million), or 8 pence a share,
the London-based company said in a statement today. That
compares with a profit of 43.3 million pounds, or 7 pence, a
year earlier. Analysts expected 7.9 pence a share, according to
the average of five estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  While  consumer spending  in the U.K. is faltering in face of
rising energy and food costs and higher taxes, retailers are
competing for space in shopping locations that attract the most
visitors. That allowed Capital Shopping to limit vacancies to 3
percent and raise rents 6.1 percent at its properties, which
include Metrocentre in Gateshead, before the additional income
generated by the Trafford Centre.  “The numbers are decent enough, except for two key figures
of net asset value and dividends,” said Alan Carter, an analyst
at Evolution Securities. He reiterated his “sell”
recommendation on the shares, saying other companies “offer
better value and likely share-price performance.”  Net asset value rose by a penny from six months earlier to
391 pence a share. Capital Shopping said it will pay a first-
half dividend of 5 pence a share, unchanged from a year earlier.  Failed Bid  Capital Shopping, which fended off a bid from Simon
Property Group Inc. in January, fell 3.5 pence to 369.8 pence in
London trading. The shares fell 6.9 percent in the three months
through July, the second-worst performance of the 17 members of
the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment Trust Index, which was
little changed.  Net rental income rose 32 percent to 177.9 million pounds,
lifted by January’s 748 million-pound purchase of the  Trafford
Centre  from billionaire  John Whittaker . The mall added 13
million pounds to earnings, Capital Shopping said.  Chief Executive Officer David Fischel said the first-half
earnings reflected a “sound operating performance” in a
“challenging” economic environment. He predicted a smaller
increase in leasing in the second half.  Mango, Superdry  Excluding acquisitions, Capital Shopping signed 80 new
leases in the first half, attracting tenants including fashion
chains Mango, Forever 21 and Superdry and doughnut specialist
Krispy Kreme to its centers.  Capital Shopping, which owns 10 of the U.K.’s 25 largest
malls by retail sales, is betting that lease renewals at its
centers will boost revenue in coming years as rents align with
market rates.  The potential increase in rental income amounts to about 74
million pounds, based on appraisers’ rental estimates, Fischel
said on a conference call with journalists.  Gains in the value of the company’s real estate added 58.4
million pounds to profit in the first half. Net income fell to
183.3 million pounds compared with 292.5 million pounds a year
earlier as a result of a smaller appreciation in its real estate
and other assets.  Net debt rose by 671.6 million pounds during the first half
to 3.43 billion pounds. Rising property values helped keep
borrowing stable relative to the value of its real estate at 48
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 