-- 
Casino Files Complaint Versus Pao de Acucar to Brazil Securities Regulator

-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-08-02T23:50:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/casino-files-complaint-versus-pao-de-acucar-to-brazil-securities-regulator.html
Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO)  filed a
complaint against Brazil’s largest retailer to the country’s
securities regulator, according to a filing on its website.  The Saint Etienne, France-based supermarket operator shares
control of Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar
with Brazil’s Diniz family. Casino last month opposed a proposal
to merge Pao de Acucar with  Carrefour SA (CA) ’s Brazilian assets. The
filing, dated July 26, didn’t disclose the details of the claim.  Casino Chairman Jean-Charles Naouri said the proposal was
illegal as it violated a 2005 shareholder agreement that giving
Casino the option to buy control of Pao de Acucar next year.  An external press office for Casino in Brazil said the
group doesn’t have a complaint against the Pao de Acucar
management and that the filing is for information, without
providing details.  Trindade Sociedade de Advogados, the  law firm  representing
Casino on the complaint, didn’t immediately return a phone call
seeking comment. Pao de Acucar didn’t immediately return calls
and e-mails from Bloomberg News. Brazil’s securities regulator
can’t provide details on the complaint, said an official, who
asked not to be identified citing internal policy.  Shares in the Brazilian retailer fell 1.2 percent to 65.00
reais at the market close in  Sao Paulo , while the benchmark
Bovespa index dropped 2.1 percent. Casino fell 2.3 percent to
60.23 euros at the market close in Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  