-- 
CBS Options Are Most Bearish Since 2006 Before Quarterly Earnings Report

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-08-02T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/cbs-options-are-most-bearish-since-06-before-earnings-report.html
CBS Corp. (CBS)  options traders pushed
bearish bets to a five-year high in July amid speculation the
most-watched U.S. television network will keep falling after
breaking a record seven-month winning streak.  Ownership of puts to sell increased 38 percent in July,
almost five times faster than the rise in calls to buy,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock posted a
sixth straight loss yesterday, declining 0.3 percent to $27.28.  Traders are betting New York-based CBS will pare gains
after it surged 43 percent this year for the best performance in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Media Index. Advertising sales may
slow as consumers curb spending because of proposed federal
budget cuts, said  Tony Wible  of Janney Montgomery Scott LLC. He
cited the 0.4 percent annual gain in U.S. first-quarter gross
domestic product, reported by the Commerce Department July 29.  “CBS is more leveraged to the economy because more of its
revenue comes from advertising, which is a more cyclical source,
so that would explain why people are being incrementally more
negative,” Wible, a Philadelphia-based media analyst, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “There are more concerns about
the economy slowing down based on the GDP from last week, and
the remedy for the debt crisis ultimately means that there’s
going to be less money to be spent by consumers.”  CBS ended July with its biggest weekly loss in almost a
year, slumping 7.4 percent compared with a 4.6 percent loss for
the media gauge. The stock surged 10-fold from a record low of
$3.09 in March 2009 to an almost four-year high of $29.54 on
July 22. Dana McClintock, a CBS spokesman, declined to comment
on the options trading or stock price.  After the Close  The broadcaster will report second-quarter adjusted profit
of 46 cents a share when it releases results today after the 4
p.m. New York time close of exchanges, according to the average
of 23 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Analysts tracked
by Bloomberg have 18 buy recommendations on the stock, nine
holds and one sell.  CBS trades at a price-earnings ratio of 20.2 times reported
earnings, compared with a 16 ratio for the S&P media index. That
27 percent premium for CBS has widened from this year’s low of
7.7 percent three months ago, according to Bloomberg data.  Shareholders may be using puts to lock in profits from the
stock’s advance, said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage
$17 billion at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,  Alabama .  Protecting Gains  “It’s a way for investors to protect gains in the event of
a general market selloff,” Hellwig said in a phone interview
yesterday. “Because it’s at a high there are more profits to
protect there, so it may be nothing more than holders that still
like the stock but they’re afraid of the market.”  Some new put-option positions are being opened by investors
who are selling those contracts to wager that the shares will
keep rallying, according to Ophir Gottlieb, managing director of
client services at Livevol Inc., a San Francisco-based provider
of options market analytics. He cited selling of August $25 puts
and August $27 puts.  “People are saying the risk that is implied by the options
is too high,” Gottlieb said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“People are essentially drawing a line in the sand saying, ‘CBS
will not go below this price.’ They believe they can make some
money on the risk or the fear that there will be an earnings
drop.”  Selling an option is a bet that the stock won’t rise or
fall to the strike price, allowing the seller to keep the
premium paid by the buyer. Investors use options to guard
against fluctuations in the price of securities they own,
speculate on share-price moves or bet that volatility, or stock
swings, will rise or fall.  “Revenue is still predominantly ad-related, and thus it’s
sensitive to the economy,” said Christopher Marangi, a  fund
manager  at Rye, New York-based Gamco Investors Inc., in a
telephone interview yesterday. His firm oversees $36 billion and
owns about 4.3 million CBS Class A shares. “We still like the
fundamentals and think it’s cheap. It’s a well run company with
a lot of growth potential.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  