-- 
Central Falls Bankruptcy Casts Shadow Over Rhode Island Pensions

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d ,   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   L a u r a   K e e l e y
-- 
2011-08-02T15:50:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/central-falls-bankruptcy-driven-by-pensions-casts-shadow-over-rhode-island.html
Central Falls,  Rhode Island , whose
motto is “a city with a bright future,” has cast a shadow
across the rest of the state by entering bankruptcy.  Rhode Island’s poorest city sought court protection
yesterday after retirees failed to accept cuts in pensions and
benefits. That pushed the municipality into insolvency,
according to Robert Flanders, a former state  Supreme Court 
justice named to oversee Central Falls finances earlier this
year. The city asked the court to let it impose “a prudent
plan” to adjust what it pays retired workers.  The city’s plight echoes imbalances found in other
municipalities across the U.S., including Vallejo,  California ,
and Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , where local governments failed to
curb spending to fit shrinking economies. In Rhode Island, the
move into court is sounding an alarm because many local pension
plans are “considerably underfunded,” the state’s auditor-
general said in a report last year.  “Unless there’s pension reform, Central Falls may not be
the last municipality in Rhode Island that faces bankruptcy,”
said Gary Sasse, former Governor Donald Carcieri’s chief of
administration. “No question Central Falls was unique and was
an economic basket case but there are other communities in the
state with locally administered pension plans that are in
serious trouble.”  Fifth Municipal Bankruptcy  Central Falls, a city of about 18,000 about 6 miles (9.7
kilometers) north of Providence, became the fifth U.S. community
to enter bankruptcy this year, compared with six in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Commissioners from
Jefferson County,  Alabama , last week postponed a vote on what
would be the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy, while Harrisburg
has flirted with such a move since last year. Vallejo’s plan to
exit bankruptcy won approval last week. It entered court
protection in May 2008.  The Rhode Island city’s pension plan is expected to run out
of assets by October without additional funding or significant
concessions from both current workers and retirees, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a June 17 report. The rating company
today put Central Falls general obligation bonds on review for a
possible downgrade after reducing its credit mark one level to
Caa1, the fifth-lowest, from B3 in June. Both are below
investment grade.  “I still can’t understand why a city this size can’t run
on $15 or $17 million,” said Jerauld Adams, 41, chairman of the
Board of Trustees of Adams Library, which volunteers keep open
three days a week after Flanders fired all the paid workers on
July 1. “And they don’t even have to take care of their own
school system.”  Declining Economy  Central Falls’s economy began to decline in the 1970s with
the departure of manufacturers including textile makers from
Providence north to the Massachusetts line. At least 11 textile
plants closed from 1997 through 2009, eliminating almost 1,400
jobs, among them the 280 at the city’s Elizabeth Webbing Mills,
National Council of Textile Organizations  data  show.  The city’s demographics also changed with an influx of
people from  Latin America  including Mexico and  Colombia , as well
as from  Puerto Rico  and  Portugal . By 2000, the population was
almost half Hispanic, according to U.S. Census Bureau data. By
2010, that ratio had risen to about 60 percent.  Crime increased with the city’s economic decline. In 1986,
the smallest, most densely populated city in Rhode Island was
crowned the Cocaine Capital of  New England  in a Rolling Stone
magazine article.  Aid Cuts  By the early 1990s, the state had taken over the city’s
schools, including 100 percent of the funding. The march toward
bankruptcy began in the past few years as Rhode Island slashed
local aid to cope with the financial crisis and the recession it
spawned, said state Senator Elizabeth Crowley, a Central Falls
Democrat.  The city has about $21 million of debt outstanding, New
York-based Moody’s said. Per-capita income in Central Falls is
50 percent of the Rhode Island average, the company said.
Bondholders may have the most protection in the bankruptcy
filing because a new state law gives them a “priority lien” on
city revenue, according to Moody’s.  While “the legislation obliges cities, towns and districts
to dedicate property taxes and other general revenues to pay
debt service before any other claims or payments,” Moody’s said
in a statement today, “it is unclear how the federal court will
treat the tenets of this new law in a bankruptcy proceeding.”  ‘No Option’  The City Council in May 2010 sought a state-appointed
receiver. Flanders, who was named to the post this year, cut
costs yet needed contract concessions on pensions and other
benefits because the city, often through outside arbitrators,
had promised more than it could afford to police and
firefighters, many of who retire early.  The city had “no option” except seeking Chapter 9
bankruptcy protection, according to court papers.  “The city’s financial condition has deteriorated to the
point where it is insolvent,” Flanders said in the filing.
“The overwhelming pension obligations and the slowing economy,
among other factors, have significantly decreased revenues while
the city’s operational costs have increased.”  Budget Gap  Central Falls has a structural budget deficit of about $5.6
million on an annual general-fund budget of about $16.4 million,
according to court papers. By Aug. 31, the city won’t be able to
pay its bills, the filing said. It also has an unfunded
liability of about $80 million for pensions and other post-
employment benefits after the city failed to make regular
contributions for its workers, Flanders said.  “You could say it’s not fair because all of us have
contributed to the  pension plan  for our whole careers on good
faith,” said John Garvey, the city’s acting fire chief who has
worked for the department for 25 years. “We had to, there was
no choice, we had to contribute. Now part of it is not going to
be there.”  Crowley, the state senator who is a former Central Falls
city clerk, says going bankrupt isn’t fair to retirees.
“There’s nobody getting rich on pensions in this city,” she
said in a telephone interview.  The community’s financial difficulties “are much bigger”
than the cost of labor and benefits, Marc Gursky, a lawyer for
the firefighters union, said by telephone. The city should also
be negotiating with bondholders and the state to come up with a
solution, he said.  Little Sympathy  “Firefighters or police or a handful of workers at  City
Hall  aren’t going to be able to solve the city’s problems,”
Gursky said.  Yet there is little sympathy on the streets of Central
Falls for the city’s 141 retirees. Last week, they had a chance
to vote on accepting the receiver’s plan to slash benefits for
some by as much as half, and now face the reductions anyway if
the court approves. Just two of the 141 accepted the cuts.  “They’re just fat cats collecting money,” said Rob
Choquette, who was part of a three-man construction crew working
in the city center yesterday. “I have the threat of getting
injured every day and no pension waiting for me.”  Rhode Island’s auditor general said in a report last year
that 24 municipal pension plans in the state have less than 45
percent of the assets they need to meet their obligations,
largely because they haven’t made required payments. State
Treasurer Gina Raimondo and Governor Lincoln Chafee, an
independent, have pledged to deliver proposals to the
Democratic-controlled Legislature in coming months to overhaul
public pensions.  State Cooperation  The state is already working with North Providence and
Woonsocket because they needed formal authorization to use
deficit financing to close budget gaps, and has been informally
consulting with Providence and Pawtucket, which neighbors
Central Falls, according to Rosemary Booth Gallogly, the head of
the state’s revenue department.  “I don’t see anybody at this stage that is at that
level,” she said, referring to the Central Falls bankruptcy.
Yet, she added, “when you look at the unfunded pensions, that
is a reason to be concerned.”  The case is In re City of Central Falls, 11-13105,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Rhode Island (Providence).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Keeley in Boston at 
 lkeeley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at +1-617-210-4624 or
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 