-- 
China Trains Delayed on Possible Signal Problems, Post Reports

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-02T04:42:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/china-trains-delayed-on-possible-signal-problems-post-reports.html
Several high-speed trains in  China 
were delayed yesterday because of possible signal problems,
Shanghai Morning Post  reported , citing an unidentified person at
the Railways Ministry, more than a week after at least 40 people
were killed in a railway crash.  At least three trains linking Shanghai and the eastern
Chinese city of Nanjing were halted for about half an hour
because of signal problems, the newspaper reported today.
Services for the Ningbo-Wenzhou line, which had the July 23
fatal crash, were also halted for more than three hours for
“temporary equipment maintenance,” according to the report.  The collision last month near the southeastern China’s
Wenzhou city was probably caused by a design flaw in a signaling
system, state-run Xinhua News Agency said last week, citing a
preliminary investigation by the  Shanghai  Railway Bureau. China
has fixed a software error in a signal system that caused the
crash, People’s Daily reported in its overseas edition
yesterday, citing an unidentified Ministry of Railways official.  At least six calls made today to  Wang Yongping , a spokesman
for the ministry, weren’t answered.  In the crash, a bullet train that stopped after a lightning
strike was rear-ended by another locomotive, pushing four
coaches off a viaduct. The accident also injured 191 people.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged a greater focus on rail safety
and a “transparent” investigation into the accident after
visiting the crash site. The results of the investigation may be
released around mid-September, according to a Xinhua report.  The government fired three officials following the crash
and started a two-month review of railway safety.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  