-- 
China Beckons to Hong Kong Builders as Local Firms Squeezed

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   V i n c e n t   J i a n g
-- 
2011-08-03T02:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/china-beckons-to-hong-kong-builders-as-mainland-firms-squeezed.html
Hong Kong  developers are poised to
snap up land in China at a time when their mainland rivals’
finances are being sapped by government property curbs.  Builders including  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  and Cheung
Kong (Holdings) Ltd. took in HK$66 billion ($8.47 billion) from
new apartment sales in the six months ended June, a first-half
record, according to  Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  Chinese
developers face a shortage of credit and higher interest rates,
prompting Standard & Poor’s to cut its outlook on the sector.  “Hong Kong developers should have an advantage in
acquiring land while their Chinese counterparts are less
aggressive,” said Jack Ye, a Shanghai-based director of
investment at property broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc. “Chinese
developers have turned cautious on land purchases as the
government measures tightened their liquidity.”  Swire Pacific Ltd. (19)  on July 29 sold a mall in Hong Kong for
$2.4 billion, giving funds Core-Pacific Yamaichi International
Ltd. analysts said it will deploy in China.  Hang Lung Properties
Ltd. (101)  the same day said it has built up Chinese currency holdings
of 20 billion yuan ($3.1 billion) for its projects in the
country. Cheung Kong, controlled by Hong Kong’s richest man  Li Ka-shing , is scheduled to report interim earnings tomorrow, with
analysts expecting a nearly threefold increase in net profit,
helped by increased sales in Hong Kong.  Cash-Rich  Hong Kong’s developers are betting there’s more upside in
other Chinese cities as curbs at home stem a 70 percent surge in
housing prices since the start of 2009. Average  home prices  rose
0.2 percent in  China  in July from the previous month, with
prices increasing in 66 out of the 100 cities surveyed by SouFun
Holding Ltd.  Builders in Hong Kong are among the world’s most cash-rich
after a two-and-a-half-year property boom in the city of 7.1
million people. The top 51 developers in the city have an
average debt-to-common-equity ratio of 47 percent, compared to
the average 126 percent of their counterparts in other parts of
China, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even the most indebted Hong Kong developer in the Hang Seng
Property Index,  Henderson Land  Development Co., is better off
than the least indebted among China’s 10 biggest developers,
Soho China Ltd. Henderson Land’s ratio at the end of 2010 was 34
percent, while Soho’s was 55 percent, Bloomberg data shows.  Higher  Interest Rates   “Hong Kong developers have enough cash for countercyclical
investments in other Chinese cities,” said Dundas Deng, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Guotai Junan Ltd. “Hong Kong is facing a
serious property bubble caused by its historically low interest
rates. Hong Kong developers will need the mainland market to
boost earnings, especially when interest rates rise at home.”  Home prices in the city of 7.1 million may drop 30 percent
by 2013,  Barclays Capital  said in an April 4 report, as
borrowing costs rise.  Interest rates in Hong Kong normally follow the rates set
by the U.S. Federal Reserve as the city’s currency is pegged to
the  U.S. dollar . That link has been weakened this year, with
local banks increasing  mortgage rates  as depositors shift to
yuan over Hong Kong dollars and Chinese companies seek loans in
the city due to the tightening policy in China.  Sales Stall  Concern the Chinese economy may be overheating led the
People’s Bank of China to raise interest rates five times and
the reserve-requirement ratio 12 times since the start of 2010
to tame inflation. Some cities have imposed property taxes, down
payments have been increased, and more second- and third-tier
cities announced measures to damp housing prices.  China failed to sell 353 parcels of land, including 163
pieces for residential development, at auction in the first
seven months of this year, 242 percent more than the same period
a year ago, the Beijing Times reported today, citing Beijing
Homelink Real Estate Co.  “The government’s effort to curb the market creates a lot
of uncertainties and they sure have impact on developers, be
they local or outsiders,” said Eddie Hui, a professor in the
Department of Building and Real Estate at the Hong Kong
Polytechnic University. “So if you time the market wrong, it
could have disastrous consequences.”  Chinese developers’ outlook was cut to “negative” from
“stable” by  Standard & Poor’s  on June 15. The ratings company
said tighter credit and further government curbs may lead to
rating downgrades in the next year.  Opportunity  “When the local people have financial difficulties, that’s
our opportunity,”  Hang Lung ’s Chairman Ronnie Chan said in a
June 30 Bloomberg Television interview. “For the most part, the
Hong Kong players are financially strong. Hopefully it’ll give
us the chance to step in.”  Hang Lung, which is building shopping malls in five Chinese
cities, last week said full-year profit excluding gains from
revaluations fell 59 percent on fewer home sales in Hong Kong.
It last bought land in China in May 2009, when it paid 415
million yuan for a site in Wuxi city.  Hang Lung has a list of cities that it is focusing on and
looking carefully for potential land purchases, Chan said in a
July 29 briefing for the company’s full-year earnings.  “We’ll probably only start acting when there’s a pullback
in prices,” Chan said at the briefing. “At the moment, some of
the lands we’re interested in are too expensive. This is keeping
us from buying anything.”  Accelerating Sales  Builders in Hong Kong are accelerating apartment sales amid
signs that local government curbs, including higher down-payment
requirements and increased land supply, are damping demand. The
number of housing transactions in the city fell for a seventh
straight month in July, to the lowest since February 2009.  Sun Hung Kai, the world’s biggest developer by value, has
sold over 600 of the apartments at its Imperial Cullinan project
in Hong Kong’s West Kowloon district, taking in about HK$13
billion in revenue since sales began on June 29, the company
said. It added 3 million square feet to its China landbank in
the second half of 2010, bringing the total to 82 million square
feet, according to its fiscal interim report.  Cheung Kong  in July raised its 2011 sales target for Hong
Kong to HK$25 billion from an earlier HK$20 billion. The city’s
second-biggest builder led developers’ sales in the first half
with HK$14.5 billion, according to Centaline, the city’s biggest
closely held real estate agency. Henderson Land came second,
followed by Sun Hung Kai.  China Spending  Cheung Kong has almost 41 percent of its gross assets in
Chinese cities outside of Hong Kong, the highest proportion
among the city’s 10 biggest builders. Along with partners, it
added 1.17 million square meters (12.6 million square feet) to
its landbank in China in the second half of last year, its
annual report showed.  “I won’t be surprised if the likes of Sun Hung Kai and
Cheung Kong use some of the proceeds from apartment sales in
Hong Kong to replenish their  land bank , both in China and the
city,” said  Katie Chan , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Haitong
Securities Ltd. “There’re more land scheduled to be sold by the
Hong Kong government this year, but that doesn’t mean they won’t
look beyond the city.”  Swire Pacific, the biggest landlord in the city’s Island
East district, last week agreed to sell the Festival Walk
shopping center for HK$18.8 billion to a unit of  Singapore ’s
Temasek Holdings Pte in the biggest property transaction ever
for the company. Swire, which last year shelved a plan to spin
off its real estate unit, is building five shopping malls and
offices in China including in Guangzhou and Chengdu.  “A large part of the proceeds will probably go to funding
their China development,” said  Castor Pang , head of research at
Core-Pacific Yamaichi International Ltd. in Hong Kong. “This
should be timely as it has now become more difficult for
developers to borrow money in China because of the government
curbs.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  