-- 
China’s Stocks Decline to 6-Week Low on Manufacturing Slowdown, Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-02T07:37:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/china-s-stock-futures-drop-on-manufacturing-slowdown-inflation-concerns.html
China’s benchmark stock index fell to
a six-week low, as economic reports signaled the global
recovery is stalling and investors speculated the central bank
will raise  interest rates  this month to tame inflation.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. led declines for
lenders after a Xinhua News Agency website said China may boost
borrowing costs around Aug. 10. Jiangxi Copper Co. and Zhuzhou
Smelter Group Co., China’s biggest producers of copper and
refined zinc, retreated more than 1 percent on speculation a
slowing global economy will curb demand for metals.  “Inflationary pressure is still big and the July inflation
number could still be high,” said Dai Ming,  fund manager  at
Shanghai Kingsun Investment Management & Consulting Co. “The
government has already set a tone that controlling prices is its
priority for the second half so any easing of tightening
policies is unlikely.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, lost 24.52 points, or 0.9 percent, to
2,679.26 as of the 3 p.m. local time close, the lowest close
since June 22. The measure is valued at 12.3 times estimated
profit, the lowest since October 2008, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  fell 0.7 percent to
2,956.38.  The Shanghai measure has slumped 12 percent from this
year’s high set on April 18 on concern growth in the world’s
second-biggest economy is slowing, fueled by reports showing
slumping manufacturing growth. The Purchasing Managers’ Index
slipped to 50.7 in July from 50.9 in June, the China Federation
of Logistics and Purchasing said yesterday. The PMI from HSBC
and  Markit Economics  fell to its lowest level since March 2009.  The central bank has raised interest rates five times and
ordered lenders to set aside more cash as deposit reserves 12
times since the start of 2010 to contain inflation, which
quickened to the fastest pace in three years in June.  Inflation Outlook  ICBC, the nation’s biggest listed lender, slid 0.9 percent
to 4.20 yuan.  China Construction Bank Corp. (601939) , the second largest,
fell 0.9 percent to 4.67 yuan.  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  lost 0.7
percent to 3.03 yuan.  China may raise rates around Aug. 10, Xinhua08.com,
Xinhua’s financial services website, said yesterday, citing its
own research. Consumer price index growth in July may hit 6.3
percent, according to the report. Inflation may have accelerated
to 6.5 percent in July, Zhu Jianfang and Sun Wencun, analysts at
Citic Securities Co., wrote in a report today. The figure is
scheduled to be released Aug. 9. The nation’s inflation rate
rose to 6.4 percent in June.  China’s inflation pressure is still high and rising prices
are the most prominent problem facing its economy, the Financial
News said in a front-page commentary by an unidentified writer.
The newspaper is a publication of the central bank.  No Policy Relaxation  The central bank said yesterday it’s too early to relax
monetary policy, citing “strong” inflation expectations and
the foundation for stabilizing prices isn’t “solid.”  A 48-member measure of material stocks slumped 1.1 percent
today, the second most among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups.  Jiangxi Copper,  China ’s biggest producer of the metal, lost
2.3 percent to 35.75 yuan. Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co.,
the second biggest, slid 3.5 percent to 26.43 yuan. Zhuzhou
Smelter slumped 1.4 percent to 16.38 yuan.  A report showed U.S. manufacturing expanded in July at the
slowest pace in two years, indicating the industry that’s been
driving the economic expansion is starting to weaken. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to 50.9
last month from 55.3 in June. Economists projected the index
would drop to 54.5, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. Debt  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.4 percent yesterday,
falling for a sixth day as slower-than-forecast growth in
manufacturing erased a rally triggered by speculation lawmakers
would raise the federal debt ceiling. The House voted 269-161
for the plan negotiated by leaders and President  Barack Obama 
over the weekend.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slid 10 percent from this year’s
high yesterday, becoming the first major region to enter a so-
called correction, as falling Spanish and Italian bonds showed
the debt crisis is spreading.  “Economic data from around the world seem to suggest that
global growth is slowing and that’ll sour sentiment especially
when there’s still uncertainty over the debt crisis in Europe,”
said Wei Wei, an analyst at West China Securities Co. in
 Shanghai .  China Stocks  China’s stocks may perform better than counterparts
elsewhere in Asia should the debt crises in Europe and the U.S.
worsen, according to Credit Suisse Group AG, which said the
nation’s loans from the two regions are of “virtual
irrelevance” in the world’s second-largest economy.  The Shanghai Composite rose 2.9 percent in the six months
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September
2008, the only one among 10 major Asian stock gauges to advance.
 India ’s dropped 42 percent,  Taiwan ’s slid 25 percent and  South
Korea ’s fell 24 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It seems reasonable to assume that in a scenario of a
major U.S. and/or euro-zone cash crunch the relative performance
of  Asia ’s markets would be influenced in part by the extent of
Western ownership of debt and equities in the region,”  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist at Credit Suisse, wrote in a
report. “ China’s economy  and financial system is also more
immune than most to U.S./Europe-led financial market turmoil.”  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  