-- 
Chopped Masterworks Reassembled in London Show: Martin Gayford

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-08-02T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/chopped-masterworks-pieced-together-in-london-exhibition-martin-gayford.html
Is an art gallery the right place to
look at old pictures?  “Devotion by Design: Italian Altarpieces Before 1500,” an
exhibition at the  National Gallery  in London, raises that
question. Museums are full of objects that some people would say
are in the wrong context. They are no more natural a habitat for
many of their exhibits than zoos are for tigers.  Leaving aside items that were removed from archaeological
sites and transported to museums in northern  Europe  and the
U.S., there’s still the question of religious art. Many of the
works in great collections originally were made for churches.  That applies to some of the best-known images in the
National Gallery: Leonardo’s “Virgin of the Rocks,” Piero
della Francesca’s “Baptism of Christ,” Masaccio’s “Virgin and
Child.” All of them are fragments from larger ensembles, both
visual and emotional. They have been cut out of their
surroundings -- often literally, with a saw -- and stuck on
gallery walls like butterflies in a case.  Altarpieces, as the name suggests, were placed on altars as
part of a complex of ritual and belief. In front of them mass
was said, candles were lit, incense burned, prayers offered up,
hymns sung. None of that happens at the National Gallery, though
“Devotion by Design” does a good job of recreating an
ecclesiastical atmosphere.  Museum Nave  The central gallery is transformed into something like a
nave, with Signorelli’s grand “Circumcision” (1490) as the
high altar, and others along the side walls. The piped
liturgical music wafting in the background, however, is a tacky
touch.  Most of the exhibition is concerned with putting
dismembered altarpieces back together. In the late 18th and
early 19th centuries, secular governments in  Italy  closed many
religious institutions, monasteries and convents and sold
surplus pictures.  Around the same time, collectors with avant-garde tastes
began taking an interest in 14th- and 15th-century art. As Scott
Nethersole writes in the catalog, “The art market responded to
the demand for Italian ‘primitives’ by ruthlessly hacking them
up, extracting saleable elements and discarding the rest.”  Often, the first thing to go was the frame, an integral
part of the original. In the show, it’s possible to look at the
back of a few that escaped the art dealer’s axe, including
Giovanni dal Ponte’s “Ascension of St. John the Evangelist
Altarpiece” (c. 1420). It’s an impressively elaborate piece of
carpentry. (The frame for Michelangelo’s “Entombment” (1500-1)
cost almost as much as his fee for the painting, according to
the contract.)  Jigsaw Puzzles  Those ruthless 19th-century dealers have left a series of
complicated jigsaw puzzles for art historians. Generally, they
took apart polyptychs -- multipanel altarpieces. After all, not
many collectors have room for the whole enormous object. They
traded the panels separately.  The result is that parts of a single work may be spread
around half a dozen museums. Della Francesca’s “St. Michael”
(1469) is one of four saints from the same altarpiece now in
four different collections; the central Madonna and Child has
vanished. Experts still are working on some of these puzzles.  Recreating completely the original context for such
pictures -- or for any work -- is impossible. To do that, you’d
have to resurrect 15th-century Italians, and see the works
through their eyes. Still, this show is a useful reminder that
altarpieces were intended for altars, and actually they have
more meaning there.  “Devotion by Design: Italian Altarpieces Before 1500” is
at the National Gallery in  London  through Oct. 2. The exhibition
is supported by the  Jerusalem Trust . Information:
 http://www.nationalgallery.org.uk/ .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/# !/martingayford.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 