-- 
Citadel Drops to Three-Month Low on Concern Over Share Gains

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-08-02T12:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/citadel-drops-to-three-month-low-on-concern-over-share-gains.html
Citadel Capital SAE fell to the
lowest level in almost three months on concern near-term gains
in the share price may be limited.  Shares of the Cairo-based private-equity firm declined 2.7
percent to 4.75 Egyptian pounds at the 1:30 p.m. close in Cairo,
the lowest level since May 16. That gave Citadel a market value
of 3.14 billion pounds ($527 million). The benchmark EGX 30
Index retreated 2.1 percent.  “Operationally, a lot of their investments are doing well,
but it doesn’t mean investors will make good returns on the
stock right now,” said Ryan Ayache, a Dubai-based banking
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. Also, “There may have been some
hot money in the stock hoping to benefit from a transaction with
Abraaj Capital.”  Abraaj Capital Ltd., a Dubai-based private equity firm,
last week called off talks to acquire a stake in Citadel. The
development was positive, even with the subsequent drop in
Citadel shares, “as it confirms that Citadel Capital was not
negotiating from a position of weakness, whereas Abraaj Capital
was clearly looking to buy a distressed asset,” Ayache said.  Citadel shares fell even after the company disclosed plans
to expand investment in eastern  Africa  after its local railway
unit got a $164 million loan.  Rift Valley Railways Ltd., operator of the Kenya-Uganda
railway, will sign a loan accord to finance an upgrade that may
boost capacity almost four-fold, its biggest shareholder Citadel
Chairman Ahmed Heikal said yesterday. The loan is for $164
million, the International Finance Corp. said yesterday.  Citadel said last month its first-quarter loss widened to
114.2 million Egyptian pounds from 33.7 million pounds a year
earlier as companies it owns stakes in were less profitable amid
political unrest in the North African country. The stock lost 17
percent over the past month, compared with an 8 percent decline
for the EGX 30 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Dubai at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  