-- 
Citigroup Gave 88-Year-Old Client Negligent Advice, Singapore Court Told

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-08-02T04:33:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/citigroup-gave-88-year-old-client-negligent-advice-singapore-court-told.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  had undue influence
over 88-year-old Ie Seng Hoan and was negligent in its
investment advice to the partly deaf client, resulting in a loss
of $18.1 million, his lawyer said today.  “It knew full well of Pak Ie’s health problems, his
language difficulties and his lack of financial acumen and
education,” Ie’s lawyer  Koh Hai Keong  said in his opening
statement at a  Singapore  High Court trial.  Ie, an Indonesian textile businessman, accused Citigroup’s
Singapore unit, where he was a client since 2003, of negligent
misrepresentations and hiding material facts and claimed the
bank had “undue influence” on his investment decisions. He was
also misled by his banker into believing he made a profit when
he suffered a loss after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in Sept. 2008, according to the lawsuit.  Citigroup has denied wrongdoing and sent Ie a letter in
2007 confirming that he had extensive investing experience and
had an “aggressive” risk tolerance, according to the bank’s
defense filed by its lawyer  Hri Kumar .  The bank acted professionally in managing the accounts of
Ie and his company Zhen Yin at all times, Hong Kong-based
spokesman Godwin Chellam said today.  “The litigation is wholly without merit and we will defend
it vigorously in court,” Chellam said, adding it would be
inappropriate to comment further.  UBS,  Standard Chartered   Banks including UBS AG and Standard Chartered Plc have been
sued by private banking clients in Singapore, who accused the
financial institutions of inducing them into buying products
based on negligent advice. Singapore’s central bank will require
banks from Jan. 1 to advise inexperienced investors on the
 suitability of products  they wish to buy.  Ie’s investments with Citigroup included accumulators,
where he committed to buying the British pound within a trading
band for a specified period of time, and three  hedge funds ,
according to the lawsuit.  Ie had failed to read and understand documents that he had
signed with the bank, Koh said.  The case is Zhen Yin Co. v Citibank NA S550/2009 in the
Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  