-- 
McNabb Gets Vikings No. 5 Jersey for Donation, Kluwe Band Pitch, Ice Cream

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-02T14:30:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/mcnabb-gets-vikings-no-5-jersey-for-donation-kluwe-band-pitch-ice-cream.html
Six-time Pro Bowl quarterback  Donovan McNabb  may be the first National Football League player to sign
a contract involving a charity donation, a band promotion during 
a press conference and an ice cream cone.  McNabb was traded to the Vikings on July 30 from the
 Washington Redskins . In order to wear No. 5, a number previously
held by Vikings punter Chris Kluwe, the 34-year-old McNabb
entered a written agreement with his new teammate to promote the
punter’s rock band,  Tripping Icarus , during a press conference
and donate $5,000 to charity. He will also buy Kluwe an ice
cream cone.  “I, Chris Kluwe, hereby relinquish No. 5 to Donovan McNabb
in exchange for the following,” reads the beginning of the
contract, signed in a video on the team’s website.  Tripping Icarus is a four-man rock and alternative band,
formed in 2009, according to its Facebook page. Kluwe, 29, plays
bass. Under the terms of the contract, McNabb must mention the
band five non-consecutive times during one press conference.  “Sounds good, where do I sign?,” McNabb said when he saw
the details in writing.  McNabb, who has worn No. 5 his whole career, was selected
second by the  Philadelphia Eagles  in the 1999 draft. In 11 years
with the Eagles, McNabb was 92-49-1 as a starter, leading the
team to the playoffs eight times and the  Super Bowl  after the
2004 season. He spent last year with the Redskins, where he was
5-8 in 13 starts before being benched for the final three games.  In 2005, Redskins running back Clinton Portis paid former
teammate Ifeanyi Ohalete $18,000 for his No. 26 jersey number.
New York Giants punter Jeff Feagles gave his No. 10 to Eli Manning for a weeklong, all-expenses-paid family vacation to
 Florida , after the quarterback was drafted in 2004, according to
Sport Illustrated.  McNabb’s charity donation will go to  Kick for a Cure , a
soccer tournament and festival to benefit children with Duchenne
Muscular Dystrophy, a genetic disorder that weakens muscles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 