-- 
Comedian Who Threw Pie at Murdoch Sentenced to Six Weeks in Jail

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-02T14:56:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/comedian-who-threw-pie-at-murdoch-sentenced-to-six-weeks-in-jail.html
A British comedian who admitted
assaulting  Rupert Murdoch  with a foam pie while he testified to
U.K. lawmakers about the phone-hacking scandal at the News of
the World tabloid was sentenced to six weeks in prison.  Jonathan May-Bowles, 26, who uses the moniker Jonnie
Marbles, must also pay a 250-pound ($407) fine, a London judge
ruled today. He pleaded guilty last week to assault and causing
harassment, alarm or distress.  May-Bowles, of Windsor,  England , attacked the News Corp.
chairman and chief executive officer as he testified to
Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sport Committee with his son,
James, on July 19. Murdoch’s wife Wendi stood up from behind her
husband and swung at May-Bowles, who was taken out of the room
by police officers and charged the next day.  “You attended with one objective in mind, which was to
disrupt proceedings,” Judge Daphne Wickham said at today’s
hearing. Given the fear of physical injury caused by the attack,
“your behavior merits a custodial sentence.”  Tim Greaves, the lawyer representing May-Bowles, had argued
he should be sentenced to unpaid community-service work because
he had a young child at home, Murdoch wasn’t injured and pie-throwing was a legitimate form of protest. May-Bowles was
motivated by “revulsion and anger at the recent behavior of
News International,” he said, referring to  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K.
publishing unit.  News Corp., based in  New York , is dealing with at least
three probes by police into phone hacking, computer hacking and
police bribery at the now-shuttered News of the World. At least
11 people have been arrested.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
units of News Corp. in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  