-- 
Commercial-Mortgage Late Payments Increase to Record in July

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-08-02T19:06:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/commercial-mortgage-late-payments-hit-record-in-signal-of-market-distress.html
Late payments on commercial mortgages
bundled and sold as bonds rose the most in more than 12 months,
adding to concern that the market is deteriorating three years
after the financial crisis choked off funding to borrowers.  Delinquencies on the debt jumped 51 basis points in July to
a record 9.88 percent, according to real estate data provider
Trepp LLC. The increase follows two months of declines, the New
York-based firm said today in a statement. The jump is partly
because of how loan servicers report mortgages that are in
foreclosure, Trepp said.  “Much of the positive momentum that had been surrounding
the CMBS market recently has now all but vanished in the past
few weeks,” according to the statement from Trepp.  Borrowers are falling behind on payments as a revival in
new debt sales stumbles after investors pushed back on deal
terms. Wall Street banks sold $3 billion in commercial mortgage-
backed securities last month at the highest yields since
issuance resumed in November 2009 and  Standard & Poor’s 
exacerbated market turmoil by withdrawing rankings last week on
new deals.  S&P’s decision forced  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , to scuttle a $1.5 billion deal after it was
placed with investors.  Wall Street lenders may incur ”hundreds of millions of
dollars” in losses as prices on commercial-mortgage bonds
tumble,  Barry Sternlicht , the chief executive officer of
Starwood Capital Group LLC, said on a conference call with
investors today for Starwood Property Trust, a unit of the firm.
The company used a “wild hedge” that prevented Starwood from
losing “a lot of money,” he said.  Ratcheting Back  “Most of our peers in this business did not have hedges
like this in place to our knowledge,” Sternlicht said.  Starwood Property Trust, based in Greenwich,  Connecticut ,
underwrote loans accounting for about 8.3 percent of the $1.5
billion pool from Goldman and Citigroup. It’s ratcheting back
underwriting commercial mortgages to be packaged for sale as
bonds amid the turmoil, Sternlicht said on the call.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. reduced its forecast for sales of the
bonds to between $30 billion and $35 billion, the New York-based
lender said in a July 22 report. It had projected in November as
much as $45 billion in new offerings for this year.  More than $22 billion of commercial-mortgage bonds have been
sold this year, compared with $11.5 billion in all of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales plummeted in 2008
from a record $234 billion in 2007, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  