-- 
Confidence in Obama’s Economy Rising for Frustrated Employees

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-08-02T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/confidence-in-obama-economy-rises-for-frustrated-workers-finding-new-jobs.html
Frustrated employees are voluntarily
quitting their jobs at the highest level in almost three years
as confidence they will find another stabilizes, even with
unemployment at about 9 percent for more than two years.  Almost 2 million Americans quit their jobs in May, a 35
percent rise from the lowest level in January 2010, according to
the Department of Labor. An increase in employees switching jobs
is a signal of increased confidence in the labor market and the
overall economy, according to  Scott Brown , chief economist at
Raymond James & Associates Inc., a brokerage firm in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida .  “When the economy is rebounding, workers are more likely
to quit their jobs to take another,” Brown said, commenting
after last week’s report that the U.S. economy grew less than
forecast in the second quarter.  The share of Americans who perceive that jobs are “hard to
get” subtracted from the share of those who say opportunities
are “plentiful” rose to negative 39 percentage points in July
from a low of minus 46 points in November 2009, according to
data from the Conference Board, a New York research group.  The 2007-2009 recession and labor market weakness
contributed to rising worker frustration, according to a  survey 
conducted by Right Management, the consulting division of
staffing agency ManpowerGroup. Eighty-four percent of employees
planned to look for a new job in 2011, up from 60 percent the
prior year. Only 5 percent intended to remain in their current
position, according to Right Management’s December survey.  Rising Frustration  Coming out of a recession, workers’ pent-up frustration
about their jobs tends to grow, Brown said. As employees’
perceptions of the labor market recovers, voluntary departures
are likely to rise further, assuming the economy continues its
modest expansion.  A further increase in employees who leave, as well as
consumers’ confidence in the labor market “still have a long
way to go to reach pre-recession levels,” Brown said. “This is
a very gradual recovery.”  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate
in the second quarter, after almost stalling at the start of the
year with a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter, according to
data released last week by the Commerce Department.  President  Barack Obama  expects the  U.S. economy  to keep
growing despite a slowing trend reflected by weak GDP numbers,
White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said on July 29.  Energy and Food  The recent weaker-than-forecast economic data appears to
have been the result of several “temporary” factors, including
higher energy and food prices, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 13 in his semi-annual testimony to Congress.  “The anticipated pickups in economic activity and  job
creation , together with the expected easing of price pressures,
should bolster real  household income , confidence, and
spending,” Bernanke said.  Pent-up demand by job-weary workers is benefiting
Manpower’s permanent placement business, even as companies
remain “pretty hesitant” about new hiring, Chief Executive
Officer Jeffrey Joerres said a July 21 conference call.  Employee “churn” -- or job switching -- is driving some
of the permanent placement volume for staffing agencies such as
 Robert Half International Inc. (RHI) , according to Kelly Flynn, a
Boston-based analyst for Credit Suisse Group. New job creation
is the other primary source of revenue growth in permanent
placement for these companies, she said.  More Churn  “While new hiring is looking pretty sluggish, these
companies seem to be benefitting from more churn in the
workplace,” Flynn said.  This may be helping their stocks outperform the broader
market. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Human Resources &
Employment Services Index, which includes Manpower and Robert
Half, has risen 3.3 percent since July 18, compared with a 1.4
percent decline for the  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   Flynn maintains “outperform” ratings on Manpower and
Robert Half because the valuations of both companies indicate
“that investors are pricing these stocks for a double-dip
recession, not a pause in hiring,” she said.  Permanent placement revenue grew 44 percent to $80.7
million in the quarter ended June 30 for  Menlo Park , California-
based Robert Half, the company said July 20. It was the most
since the third quarter of 2008.  “We’re certainly seeing a fair amount of turnover in our
clients that’s also creating demand,” as employers have to
replace people who have left, Chief Financial Officer Keith Waddell said on a July 20 conference call.  Rising Unemployment  At the same time, unemployment rose for a third straight
month to 9.2 percent in June, while employers added only 18,000
workers to payrolls, the fewest in nine months, according to the
Labor Department. Because eligibility for regular  unemployment
benefits  is determined largely by states, in general workers
must become unemployed through no fault of their own in order to
get benefits, according to the Department of Labor.  Still, the full-time recruitment market remains “very
hot,” said Jeff Schwartz, a principal at Deloitte Consulting
LLP in  New York , after last week’s GDP figures.  Two years after the end of the recession, 65 percent of
employees have “pent-up desires to leave their current
employers” and are testing the job market, according to an
April  survey  conducted by Deloitte.  This is a “significant” increase from September 2009 when
55 percent of workers had similar intentions, Schwartz said.  Turnover Intentions  “More people are acting on turnover intentions now,”
Schwartz said. “This manifests itself as a benefit to staffing
and recruitment agencies.”  Similarly, about one in three workers are “seriously
considering leaving” their current job, according to a June
 survey  by Mercer LLC, a human resources consulting unit of Marsh
& McLennan Cos. Over the past 15 to 20 years, this has averaged
about one-in-five workers, so the most recent increase is “very
startling,” according to Pete Foley, a principal at Mercer in
New York.  “It means there’s a lot of pent-up frustration, because
people are saying that, even in the face of 9.2 percent
unemployment when prospects aren’t all that rosy,” Foley said.
“There’s a perception that the employee-employer deal is kind-
of broken.”  The willingness of workers to change jobs so readily given
the weak labor market and the resulting benefit to the permanent
placement sector are surprising, said Flynn of Credit Suisse.  Snapping Back  “Historically, permanent recruiting has lagged the
temporary market, but in this recovery permanent placement came
snapping back really quickly,” Flynn said. “It’s recovered
faster than expected and stayed robust longer than expected.”  Worker frustration alone may not account for all of the
increase in permanent staffing revenue, Flynn said. Some
companies may be upgrading their workforces and making strategic
hires that will drive revenue, while still eliminating other
positions, she said.  As more employees switch jobs, this will embolden some of
their coworkers to do the same, according to Brown.  “If the economy rebounds from its recent slowdown as
Bernanke expects, we’ll see more openings for better jobs and
that will add to confidence,” Brown said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  