-- 
U.S. Debt-Ceiling Agreement Is an Alarming Bipartisan Mess: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-02T00:01:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/congress-s-agreement-on-debt-ceiling-is-an-alarming-bipartisan-mess-view.html
The  deal  reached by the  U.S. Congress 
to raise the $14.3 trillion  debt ceiling  has spared the nation
an immediate catastrophe while potentially setting a path for
longer-term disasters.  Financial markets’ initial euphoria over the deal faded
quickly. The S&P 500 index of U.S. stocks declined for the sixth
day in a row, losing 0.4 percent Monday to close at 1,286.94.
The dollar gained against the euro and the yen but  declined  to a
record low against the Swiss franc.  The markets’ response underscores an unfortunate reality:
While the government may have averted a self-inflicted disaster,
it hasn’t solved fundamental problems and appears to have
created new ones. What the U.S. needs is a deficit-reduction
plan to address its long-term fiscal gap without weighing too
heavily on a weak recovery.  Instead, it’s getting the opposite: immediate spending cuts
that threaten the recovery in the short term but aren’t
substantial enough to fix the long-term budget problems.  Under the deal the House approved Monday, the government
must find $21 billion in new spending cuts next year, and
possibly much more. If legislators fail to agree by the end of
this year on at least $1.2 trillion in further  deficit
reduction , the country will face indiscriminate cuts in domestic
and defense programs.  The cuts could hamper the recovery, especially given $250
billion in expiring unemployment benefits, the end of the
temporary payroll-tax cut and the winding down of the stimulus
program. Growth was barely evident in the first half, and a
manufacturing report Monday showed a steep deterioration in both
activity and hiring plans in July.  AAA Rating  A growing economy is crucial to fixing the government’s
finances. Economic output is the denominator in the U.S.
government’s debt burden, which currently stands at almost 100
percent of gross domestic product, according to the
 International Monetary Fund  -- the highest level since the
aftermath of World War II.  Even if the economy doesn’t falter under the cuts, the deal
provides far too little future deficit reduction to put the
government’s finances on a sustainable path, and possibly too
little to maintain its AAA credit  rating . Economists estimate
the U.S. structural budget deficit -- the gap that must be
closed to achieve long-term stability -- at about 5 to 6 percent
of GDP. The $2.4 trillion in deficit reduction envisioned in the
compromise plan amounts to 1 percent of projected GDP over the
next decade.  Political Will  Make no mistake: The U.S. is a wealthy country that can
afford to solve its budget problems. Closing the fiscal gap will
require political leaders to embrace more ambitious policies and
to build popular support for the sacrifices they will entail.
These tasks will only be more painful if markets ultimately
force them on us.  Bold measures -- including overhauling entitlements,
rethinking the uniquely dysfunctional U.S. tax code and
considering a federal value-added tax -- must be on the table.
At an estimated 30.5 percent of GDP in 2011, the total tax
burden on Americans is the lowest among the Group of Seven
industrialized nations.  In addition to fiscal restructuring, the U.S. needs
political renewal. The debt-ceiling deal was nurtured in a
hothouse of ideology and blossomed in a storm of political
machinations that put the nation at risk. Having successfully
held the economy hostage to achieve their aims,  House
Republicans  established a template for the aggrieved, reckless
and intractable partisans of any future Congress. The danger did
not end with Monday’s vote.  Long-Term Dangers  The accord that resulted is almost wholly uninformed by the
nation’s actual economy, demographic trends or social reality.
In addition to stalled economic growth, we have an aging
population and growing inequality, with roughly a third of the
nation’s wealth controlled by 1 percent of our citizens. The
deal amounts to complete denial of these facts by our political
leaders.  That includes President  Barack Obama , who has largely
ignored the long-term dangers posed by deficits in his budget
proposals and who failed, inexplicably, to endorse the sensible
suggestions of his own deficit-reduction  commission . The
congressional committee charged under the new debt deal with
finding additional budget savings is unlikely to produce
anything comparably bold or intelligent.  This deal is an unholy and bipartisan mess. But it must be
made to work. Congress should use the breathing room it provides
to find creative long-term fiscal reforms that focus not just on
avoiding crisis -- but on creating a government that’s smarter,
fairer and more innovative. Done the right way, the boring work
of crafting budgets can be an edifying national experience.
We’ve seen quite clearly what happens when it’s done the wrong
way.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 