-- 
Consumer Spending in U.S. Unexpectedly Falls for First Time in Two Years

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-08-02T21:12:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/consumer-spending-in-u-s-unexpectedly-falls-for-first-time-in-two-years.html
U.S.  consumer spending  unexpectedly
dropped in June for the first time in almost two years and
savings climbed, adding to evidence that the slump in hiring is
hurting household confidence.  Purchases declined 0.2 percent after a 0.1 percent gain the
prior month, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington. The median estimate of 77 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 0.1 percent increase. Incomes grew
at the slowest pace since November.  The lack of jobs combined with wage gains that have failed
to keep pace with inflation raise the risk of further cuts in
consumer spending, which accounts for 70 percent of the world’s
largest economy. Companies like  Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (NWL)  are among
those cutting forecasts for the year.  “Consumers ended the quarter on a pretty poor note,” said
 John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets LLC in  Boston , who projected spending would drop.
“The third quarter is looking very soft too. Consumers are
facing lackluster wage growth in this phase of still-high  gas
prices .”  Stocks dropped, erasing year-to-date gains on mounting
concern the economy was faltering. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index tumbled 2.6 percent to 1,254.05 at the 4 p.m. close in  New
York .  Treasury securities  rose, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down to 2.61 percent from 2.75 percent
late yesterday.  Survey Results  Projections for spending in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from an increase of 0.4 percent to a drop of 0.3 percent. The
Commerce Department revised the May spending figure from a
reading previously reported as being little changed.  Incomes climbed 0.1 percent in June following a 0.2 percent
gain the prior month that was revised down. Economists had
forecast incomes would rise 0.2 percent, according to the
Bloomberg survey.  Wages and salaries were little changed, the weakest reading
since November.  Americans boosted savings, a sign of growing concern over
the economy and jobs. The savings rate climbed to 5.4 percent,
the highest since September, from 5 percent.  Today’s report showed that adjusted for inflation, which
are the figures used to calculate gross domestic product,
consumer spending was little changed after dropping 0.1 percent
in May. The value of purchases in June was the lowest of the
quarter, making a third-quarter rebound more difficult.  Inflation Stabilizes  The  Federal Reserve ’s preferred price index, which is tied
to spending patterns and excludes food and fuel, increased 1.3
percent from June 2010, the same as in the prior month.  The so-called core price index rose 0.1 percent from the
prior month. The gauge was forecast to rise 0.2 percent from
May, according to the survey median.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate
from April through June after a 0.4 percent gain in the prior
quarter that was less than earlier estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed July 29. Household spending grew 0.1
percent, the weakest performance since the second quarter of
2009, at the end of the last recession.  A slump in confidence threatens to derail any recovery. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer
sentiment fell in July to the weakest reading since March 2009.
The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index also dropped in the week
ended July 24 to the lowest since May.  Stagnant Wages  “Wages are very stagnant and that’s affecting consumer
spending and  consumer confidence ,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said in semi-annual testimony to Congress on July 13. “There is
also ongoing uncertainty about the durability of the recovery.”  Weekly earnings adjusted for inflation dropped 0.9 percent
in the 12 months ended June on average, according to figures
from the Labor Department.  The labor market is still struggling to heal. The jobless
rate climbed to 9.2 percent in June while payrolls grew by
18,000, the fewest in nine months. The economy also failed to
create enough jobs in July to trim unemployment, economists in a
Bloomberg survey said before a Labor Department report due this
week.  Merck & Co., Cisco Systems Inc., and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. are among companies that announced workforce reduction
plans last month.  Fuel Costs  Higher expenses for necessities like energy are also
crimping purchasing power. The cost of regular gasoline climbed
in May to about a three-year high of $4 a gallon, and remained
above $3.70 at the end of July, according to AAA, the nation’s
biggest auto group.  The “difficult”  U.S. economy  was among reasons Newell
Rubbermaid, the Atlanta-based maker of Rubbermaid containers and
Sharpie pens, last week cut its full-year profit and sales
forecasts.  “The consumer environment remains very tough,” Michael Polk, chief executive officer, said on a conference call with
analysts on July 29. “The key uncertainty is whether the
consumer will show up and spend.”  Auto dealers are also seeing a slump. Cars and light trucks
sold at an average 11.41 annual rate in June, the slowest in a
year, industry data showed. Figures for July, due today, will
signal vehicle sales have stalled, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  