-- 
Consumer Spending in U.S. Probably Stagnated in June as Employment Slumped

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-08-02T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/consumer-spending-in-u-s-probably-stagnated-in-june-as-employment-slumped.html
Consumer spending  in the U.S.
probably stalled in June as a slump in hiring caused households
to retrench, economists said before a report today.  Purchases rose 0.1 percent in June after being little
changed in May, according to the median estimate of 77
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Personal incomes probably
increased 0.2 percent in June, the smallest gain in seven
months.  The lack of jobs combined with wage gains that have failed
to keep pace with inflation raise the risk of further cuts in
consumer spending, which accounts for 70 percent of the world’s
largest economy. Companies like  Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (NWL)  are among
those cutting forecasts for the year.  “It’s a challenging situation for consumers,” said  John Silvia , chief economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “Job and wage growth is limited, and
fuel prices are still higher than people would like. Consumers
don’t have the money to buy things.”  The Commerce Department’s spending report is due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ forecasts ranged from a gain of
0.4 percent to a decline of 0.3 percent.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate
from April through June after a 0.4 percent gain in the prior
quarter that was less than earlier estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed July 29. Household spending grew 0.1
percent, the weakest performance since the second quarter of
2009, at the end of the last recession.  Confidence Shaken  A slump in confidence threatens to derail any recovery. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer
sentiment fell in July to the weakest reading since March 2009.
The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index also dropped in the week
ended July 24 to the lowest since May.  “Wages are very stagnant and that’s affecting consumer
spending and  consumer confidence ,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said in semi-annual testimony to Congress on July
13. “There is also ongoing uncertainty about the durability of
the recovery.”  Weekly earnings adjusted for inflation dropped 0.9 percent
in the 12 months ended June on average, according to figures
from the Labor Department.  Investors are cautious about the outlook. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropped for a sixth straight day yesterday as
concern the global economy may relapse into another recession
wiped out optimism U.S. lawmakers will agree to raise the debt
ceiling.  Hiring Stalls  The labor market is still struggling to heal. The jobless
rate climbed to 9.2 percent in June, while payrolls grew by
18,000, the fewest in nine months. The economy also failed to
create enough jobs in July to trim unemployment, economists in a
Bloomberg survey said before a Labor Department report due this
week.  Merck & Co., Cisco Systems Inc., and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. are among companies that announced workforce reduction
plans last month.  Higher expenses for necessities like energy are also
crimping purchasing power. The cost of regular gasoline climbed
in May to about a three-year high of $4 a gallon, and remained
above $3.70 at the end of July, according to AAA, the nation’s
biggest auto group.  The “difficult”  U.S. economy  was among reasons Newell
Rubbermaid, the Atlanta-based maker of Rubbermaid containers and
Sharpie pens, last week cut its full-year profit and sales
forecasts.  Consumer Outlook  “The consumer environment remains very tough,” Michael Polk, chief executive officer, said on a conference call with
analysts on July 29. “The key uncertainty is whether the
consumer will show up and spend.”  Auto dealers are also seeing a slump. Cars and light trucks
sold at an average 11.41 annual rate in June, the slowest in a
year, industry data showed. Figures for July, due today, will
signal vehicle sales have stalled, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  Today’s spending report may also show the Fed’s preferred
price index, which is tied to spending patterns and excludes
food and fuel, increased 1.4 percent from June 2010, the most in
a year, according to the survey. Policy makers aim for long-run
overall inflation of 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  