-- 
Corzine’s Obama Clause in MF Global Offering Stuns Wall Street

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s ,   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-08-03T18:07:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/corzine-covenant-in-mf-global-s-offering-strains-credulity-on-wall-street.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF)  took the cult
of the Wall Street chief executive officer to a new level with
its sale of bonds that pay a higher rate if Chairman and CEO  Jon Corzine  quits to take a job from the U.S. president.  The futures broker sold $325 million of five-year unsecured
notes, the company said today in a statement. The notes will pay
an extra percentage point of interest if Corzine is named to a
federal post and confirmed by the Senate before July 2013, New
York-based MF Global said yesterday in a regulatory filing.  “That seems crazy,” said  William Larkin , a fixed-income
portfolio manager who oversees $500 million at Cabot Money
Management Inc. in Salem,  Massachusetts , and has 22 years of
experience. “I’ve never heard of something like this.”  Corzine, the 64-year-old former governor of  New Jersey ,
helped run  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  from 1994 to 1999 and served
in the Senate from 2001 to 2006. Since joining MF Global last
year, he’s taken more risk with the firm’s money in a bid to
remake the broker into a mid-size investment bank and has sought
to alter its  capital structure  to reduce borrowing costs. The
shares rose 9.5 percent in the past year under his watch, while
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index fell 4.9 percent.  A Democrat, Corzine is among the biggest fundraisers for
President Barack Obama’s 2012 re-election campaign. He has been
the subject of speculation about administration jobs such as
Treasury secretary or White House economic adviser, said
 Christopher Allen , an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in New
York.  Retention Bonus  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, said he had
“no knowledge” that Corzine was being considered for an
administration post. He declined to comment on the bond sale.  Corzine’s  employment contract  is written with a view to
future government service. It stipulates that he’ll be paid his
$1.5 million retention bonus on a pro rata basis if he leaves to
work for any “U.S. federal, state or local government” before
March 31, 2014.  Five senior  Wall Street  executives at rival firms, who
declined to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
comment, expressed amazement at the bond offering’s unique
terms.  Hedge funds  sometimes allow investors to withdraw their
money if a star manager or founder, designated a “key man,”
leaves the company.  Diana DeSocio, an MF Global spokeswoman, said yesterday she
couldn’t comment because the company is in the offering period
for the bond. She couldn’t immediately be reached for comment
today.  ‘Extra Protection’  “I can’t say I’ve ever seen a provision similar to this
one,” said Alexander Diaz-Matos, an analyst at New York-based
Covenant Review LLC, which analyzes bondholder protections.
“Apparently Corzine is a big enough deal to the company that if
he leaves, potential investors demanded a little extra
protection.”  Larkin said he was surprised that the  interest-rate  change
on the bonds applies only if Corzine leaves for a government job
and not in any other circumstance.  “To have it so specific makes it even more unusual,” said
Diaz-Matos.  The notes pay a coupon of 6.25 percent, with proceeds to be
used to repay a bank credit facility and for general corporate
purposes, according to the statement. Jefferies & Co. managed
the bond sale, the company said. MF Global initially offered
$300 million of the debt, said a person familiar with the
offering who declined to be identified citing lack of
authorization to speak publicly.  Investor Concern  The idea for the Corzine step-up provision emerged from
Jefferies bankers working on the deal, according to one person
with direct knowledge of the discussions, who asked not to be
identified because the talks were confidential. The Jefferies
bankers indicated they wanted to head off any investor concern
that Corzine might leave, the person said.  Moody’s Investors Service ranks MF Global Baa2, the second-
lowest investment grade, while  Standard & Poor’s  rates it BBB-,
one step lower. The interest rate will also rise if Moody’s or
S&P cuts the company’s debt grade to junk, the regulatory filing
shows.  A rate increase of 1 percentage point, or 100 basis points,
is the least that bondholders should seek as protection against
a Corzine departure, said  Sean Egan , president of Egan-Jones
Ratings Co., a credit-rating company.  “We believe Corzine is worth more than a 100 basis-point
increase,” Egan said. “Corzine’s departure is a major risk and
the bond step-up in rate is addressing the risk.”  The innovation reminded Egan of  Michael Milken , who helped
create a market for the debt of smaller and riskier companies by
issuing high-yield securities in the 1980s.  ‘Rock Star’  “Milken would be proud of the structure since it addresses
a major concern,” he said.  Larkin, who said he owns bonds in Wall Street firms
including Goldman Sachs,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , said he doubts the idea will catch on at other companies.
Corzine is a unique case, he said.  “I’m guessing this is a one-time thing -- he does have
sort of a rock-star component to him because people believe in
his ability to turn around the firm,” Larkin said. “The
management should never be one person. If it’s one person that’s
critically important, I tend to avoid the company just because
I’m trying to establish stable income and return of principal.”  MF Global was named a primary dealer by the  Federal Reserve
Bank of New York  and has hired more than 80 salespeople and
traders this year.  Cutting Costs  Even with the additions, Corzine has cut costs by reducing
the firm’s workforce by 5.5 percent and delivered unadjusted
profit last quarter. Prior to that period, the firm was
unprofitable on a generally accepted accounting principles basis
in eight of the previous nine quarters.  Net revenue per employee has risen to $110,000 for the
three months ended in June, compared with $93,000 a year
earlier, the company said last week. At the same time, Corzine
brought the ratio of employee compensation to net revenue down
to 54 percent from 63 percent in the June quarter of 2009.  Net income climbed to $7.67 million, or 5 cents a share, in
the period ended June 30, compared with $783,000, or 1 cent, a
year ago, the company said July 28.  Last week, the firm said it planned to buy back $109.1
million of 9 percent outstanding convertible notes with the
proceeds from a sale of $325 million of 3.375 percent securities
maturing in August 2018.  The interest-rate increase under the key man provision will
reverse if MF Global is upgraded to at least A3 by Moody’s or an
equivalent A- by S&P after a departure by Corzine, according to
the regulatory filing.  It’s no surprise that major MF Global investors would be
nervous about the potential impact of a Corzine departure, said
Niamh Alexander, a New York-based analyst at KBW Inc. “There
aren’t that many former senators that are running public
companies that are in the middle of a turnaround.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 