-- 
Oil Declines for Third Day on U.S. Economic Outlook; Stockpiles May Climb

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-08-02T12:09:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/crude-drops-for-third-day-on-u-s-economic-outlook-stockpiles-may-climb.html
Oil declined for a third day in  New
York , the longest losing streak since May, as signs that the
 U.S. economy  is slowing countered speculation the world’s
biggest crude consumer will resolve its debt crisis.  Futures fell as much as 1.1 percent, erasing earlier gains,
as concern shifted to the slowing U.S. recovery after the House
approved legislation to raise the debt limit, a day before a
possible default. A report today is forecast to show personal
spending stalled in June and a gauge of manufacturing yesterday
weakened to a two-year low. U.S. crude inventories probably
climbed for a second week, according to a Bloomberg survey
before government data is released tomorrow.  “Demand concerns have the upper hand at the moment,” said
 Carsten Fritsch , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Commerzbank AG,
which forecasts prices will average $97 a barrel this quarter.
“Weak U.S. data is causing concerns that oil demand in the
world’s largest consumer will slow. Prices will slide unless we
get some better data.”  Crude for September delivery dropped as much as $1.08 to
$93.81 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $94.18 at 1:08 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday fell 81 cents to $94.89, the lowest close
since June 29. Prices are 16 percent higher the past year.  Brent for September settlement declined as much as $1.28 to
$115.53 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a premium of
$22.19 a barrel to New York futures, compared with a record
close of $22.63 on July 14.  U.S. Stockpiles  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude
inventories climbed 1.5 million barrels in the seven days ended
July 29, according to the median of nine analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline supplies probably rose 500,000
barrels, the survey shows.  Oil in New York may fall as low as $92.50 a barrel,
dropping to the bottom of a “long-term channel,” before any
rally above $100 can be sustained, according to Societe Generale
SA. Prices may drop in the coming days to the bottom of an
upward-sloping channel that started in February 2009, said
Stephanie Aymes, a cross-commodity technical analyst at  France ’s
second-largest bank by market value.  New York futures slipped yesterday after a gauge of U.S.
manufacturing showed growth at the slowest pace in two years.
The Tempe, Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management said
its factory index decreased to 50.9 in July from 55.3 in June.  Consumer Spending  “Although the debt-ceiling situation seems to have been
resolved, these weak macro-indicators out of the U.S. have
overshadowed it and that’s what’s causing some weakness in the
oil price,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist
at National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne , who predicts crude
will average $98 a barrel in the third quarter.  A Commerce Department report today may show U.S. purchases
rose 0.1 percent in June after being little changed in May,
according to the median estimate of 77 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Personal incomes probably increased 0.2 percent
in June, the smallest gain in seven months.  Tropical Storm Emily was moving quickly westward in the
 Caribbean Sea  and was expected to strengthen, the National
Hurricane Center said in a statement. The  Dominican Republic 
issued a tropical storm warning, it said.  Hurricane Eugene, 435 miles (700 kilometers) south-
southwest of Manzanillo,  Mexico , moved west-northwestward at 13
miles per hour with little change in strength, according to the
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  