-- 
Danone to Buy Wockhardt’s India Nutrition Unit for $355 Million

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-08-02T17:39:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/danone-to-buy-wockhardt-s-india-nutrition-unit-for-355-million.html
Danone (BN) , the world’s biggest yogurt
maker, agreed to buy  Wockhardt Ltd. (WPL) ’s nutrition business in
 India  for 250 million euros ($355 million) to add a lineup of
baby and medical foods in the country.  The purchase includes the Dexolac, Farex and Protinex
brands in the country, Paris-based Danone said in a statement
today. Danone will also acquire the unit’s “related industrial
operations” from Carol Info Service, the company said.  The maker of Bledina baby foods is seeking to expand in
fast-growing emerging markets such as  China  and India as well as
in the U.S., and took a 58 percent stake in Russia’s OAO Unimilk
last year, becoming the biggest dairy company in that country.
Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Andre Terisse said in February
that Danone may broaden its medical nutrition and water units.  “The strong brand awareness of Wockhardt’s Dexolac, Farex
and Nusobee baby nutrition products and their credibility with
health-care professionals will accelerate Danone’s entry into
the country’s baby-nutrition market,” Danone said. The Protinex
supplement brand “will give Danone a strong foundation for
developing its medical nutrition business,” the company said.  Wockhardt, a Mumbai-based maker of drugs to treat diabetes,
said in an e-mail that it’s “taking fundamentally strong and
positive steps with a firm focus on its core human
pharmaceutical business.”  Danone reported first half net income on July 28 that
missed analysts’ estimates as higher costs for financing and
soaring prices for goods including milk and plastic weighed on
profit. It maintained a forecast for a probable 0.2 percentage
point widening of operating margin this year and for comparative
sales to rise 6 percent to 8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 