-- 
Debt Deal Puts U.S. on Austerity Path as Economy Falters

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-08-02T09:56:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/debt-agreement-puts-u-s-on-path-to-end-stimulus-just-as-economy-falters.html
The federal government looks to be
getting out of the business of trying to spur the economy just
as the U.S. expansion shows increasing signs of faltering.  A deal struck over the weekend to cut $2.4 trillion or more
off budget deficits over a decade marks the beginning of a
prolonged effort to put the government’s finances into better
shape. While the immediate economic impact from the agreement is
likely to be small, it will add to a reduction in growth next
year of 1.5 percentage points coming from the expiration of past
stimulus programs, according to economists at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Deutsche Bank Securities.  “Over the next 10 years, there will be further spending
cuts and higher taxes, and that’s not good for economic
growth,” said  Paul Dales , senior economist for Capital
Economics Ltd. in Toronto. “It is the start of a meaningful
move toward fiscal consolidation.”  The shift from stimulus to austerity coincides with a
slowdown in the two-year recovery. A report last week showed
that gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of 1.3
percent in the second quarter of the year following 0.4 percent
in the first three months, prompting economists to warn of
possible relapse into recession.  The economy will suffer another blow next year with the
expiration of a temporary 2 percent payroll tax cut, an end to
extended unemployment benefits and completion of the $830
billion stimulus program that President  Barack Obama  signed into
law more than two years ago. Obama will press Congress to extend
a cut in payroll taxes before the end of the year, White House
press secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  ‘Fiscal Drag’  “There is a risk to the recovery that a large amount of
fiscal drag is coming at a time when the economy is
struggling,” said  Peter Hooper , chief economist for Deutsche
Bank Securities in New York.  Congressional leaders agreed last weekend on a deal that
would cut the federal deficit while raising the nation’s debt
ceiling by $2.1 trillion. The pact, which was approved by the
House last night and is set to be considered in the Senate
today, contains $917 billion in cuts, with the balance to come
later this year from a special committee of lawmakers.  The debt deal would reduce government outlays by $21
billion in the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1 and by $42 billion
in the following year, according to an analysis by the
 Congressional Budget Office . That pales in comparison with the
$15 trillion U.S. economy.  ‘Small’ Impact  The impact of the agreement on the economy next year “is
going to be small, maybe a few tenths of a percentage point,”
as most of the cuts are put off to the future, said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist for JPMorgan in New York.  The turnabout in the long-term budgetary stance also puts
pressure on Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his
central bank colleagues to keep monetary policy easier for
longer to offset the economic effects from the tighter fiscal
outlook.  “The more fiscal drag there is, the less of a case there
is for monetary tightening,” said  James O’Sullivan , chief
economist for MF Global in  New York . He predicts the Fed will
keep  interest rates  at record low near zero and its balance
sheet near a record high of $2.87 trillion through this year and
into 2012.  Job-creation efforts already have been hampered by cutbacks
in the public sector. Since May 2010, total government
employment has dropped by 916,000 jobs, according to Labor
Department data.  Stocks Fall  U.S. stock prices bounded ahead in early trading yesterday
on news of the budget deal, only to fall back later on fresh
signs of economic weakness. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
ended 0.4 percent lower at 1,286.94 for a sixth straight daily
loss. European stocks fell to the lowest level in almost 10
months today amid concern that a U.S. slowdown is derailing
global growth.  The 10-year Treasury yield fell four basis points to 2.71
percent as of 10:05 a.m. in  London , after touching 2.69 percent,
the least since November.  The Institute for Supply Management reported yesterday that
its factory index slumped to 50.9 in July, the lowest level in
two years, from 55.3 a month earlier. A reading below 50 in the
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s index signals the manufacturing
industry is contracting.  Uncertainty Resolved  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
voiced hopes last week that a resolution of the debt-ceiling
impasse may remove an unknown that has restrained growth.  “Once this last uncertainty is resolved, the path to
faster growth may be open,” Bullard said in a speech in  Jackson
Hole , Wyoming.  Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., was more downbeat.  “The consequences of the debt ceiling debacle are going to
be long-lasting,” said El-Erian, whose Newport Beach,
California-based firm manages the world’s biggest bond fund.
“It inflicted a hit to both national and international
confidence.”  History suggests that fiscal consolidation can have pluses
and minuses for an economy, said Michael Mussa, a former chief
economist at the  International Monetary Fund  and now a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington.  Deficit to Surplus  The  U.S. economy  grew at an average 4 percent per year from
1994 to 2000 as the federal government’s budget moved from
deficit to surplus under former President  Bill Clinton .  Japan  was not so fortunate, Mussa said. Its economy fell
back into recession in 1998 after it raised consumption taxes
and took other steps to tighten fiscal policy.  In choosing austerity, the U.S. is embarking on a course
that some European nations already have pursued with mixed
results. A new coalition government in the United Kingdom last
year enacted a program of reduced spending and tax increases
aimed at closing the  budget deficit .  Creditors have welcomed the austerity measures. The yield
on the U.K.’s 10-year bond has fallen to 2.8 percent from 3.85
percent on May 12, 2010, when the coalition government was
formed, today.  George Magnus , senior economic adviser to  UBS Investment
Bank  in London, said the fiscal retrenchment has established the
government’s credibility.  Economic growth has been less impressive. In the second
quarter, the U.K. economy grew 0.2 percent from the previous
quarter. That left total output barely above the level reached
in the third quarter last year.  “The economy is at stall speed even before the public
expenditure reduction starts to kick in,” Magnus said. “The
omens for this in the U.S. are really poor. The situation is
quite comparable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  