-- 
Debt Deal Leaves Risk of Cut in U.S. Credit Rating, Pimco’s Kashkari Says

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-08-02T19:11:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/debt-deal-leaves-risk-of-cut-in-u-s-credit-rating-pimco-s-kashkari-says.html
The debt-limit compromise passed by
Congress and signed by President  Barack Obama  leaves the U.S. at
further risk of a reduction in its top credit rating if
politicians don’t reduce the deficit, according to Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s Neel Kashkari.  “No one is touching entitlements, no one is touching  tax
reform , and we have yet another commission,” Kashkari, head of
new investment initiatives at Pimco, said in an interview on
“InBusiness With Margaret Brennan” on Bloomberg Television.
“Do we really need another commission to realize that we just
need political courage to make hard choices?”  Obama signed the bill to raise the U.S. debt limit by at
least $2.1 trillion, averting by hours a first-ever U.S.
financial default. The president signed the debt legislation at
the White House after the Senate approved it today, ending weeks
of partisan battles over raising the debt ceiling. The House
passed it yesterday.  The debt legislation raises the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling
enough to fund the government until 2013 and threatens automatic
spending cuts if a bipartisan congressional committee doesn’t
identify reductions that Congress will accept.  The U.S. may lose its top credit rating because unfunded
entitlements such as Medicare and Social Security threaten the
nation’s long-term fiscal health, said Kashkari, who joined
Pimco in December 2009 after serving as head of the Treasury
Department’s bank-rescue program.  Fitch’s View  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement today that the U.S.
remains under a review as the nation’s debt burden increases at
a pace that isn’t consistent with an AAA sovereign credit
rating. Fitch said it expects to complete the ratings review by
the end of August after Congress approved the debt-limit accord.  Treasury 30-year bonds rallied after the Senate approved
the debt ceiling. Yields dropped as much as 17 basis points, or
0.17 percentage point, the most since May 2010. The yields fell
below 4 percent for the first time since November.  Standard & Poor’s  placed the U.S. AAA rating on
“CreditWatch” on July 14, saying there’s a 50 percent chance it
would be cut within 90 days even if an agreement is reached by  All fiscal options need to be explored to address U.S. debt
turmoil, and the legislation passed in Congress delays the
resolution to the crisis, according to Kashkari.  “If we wake up one morning and all of a sudden people
realize, ‘Well, wait a second, they’re not risk-free, we’ve
taken on more risk than we’ve realized,’ that could trigger a
new financial crisis, and that could be really destabilizing for
the global economy,” Kashkari said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  