-- 
Debt Battle Revealed Tea Party’s Many Divisions: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-08-02T00:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/debt-battle-revealed-tea-party-s-many-divisions-ramesh-ponnuru.html
At first glance, it looks as if the
Tea Partiers scored a big win over Speaker of the House  John Boehner  and the Republican Party establishment last week.  Boehner pleaded for Republican members of Congress to unite
in support of a package of spending cuts and a debt-limit
increase. He ran into vehement opposition from Representative
 Jim Jordan  of  Ohio , the head of the Republican Study Committee,
a large group of conservatives in the House.  Prominent conservative organizations -- FreedomWorks, the
Club for Growth, Heritage Action for America and various groups
with the words “Tea Party” in their names -- opposed him, too,
because his plan did not include a constitutional amendment
limiting federal spending. And they beat him: He could not get
enough votes for his original plan to pass.  Take another look, though, and the clout of this faction
looks a lot less impressive. Its constituent organizations,
which claim to speak for the populist insurgency that won the
House for Republicans in 2010, were not able to persuade a
majority of Republicans to side with them, or anything close to
a majority. Roughly 88 percent of  House Republicans  sided with
Boehner. They sided with him even when some of the groups warned
that they were putting the vote on their scorecards -- planning,
that is, to tell their followers that representatives who voted
against them were not solid conservatives.  Support for Boehner  The vast majority of freshmen Republican representatives
backed Boehner, not the activist groups. The vast majority of
members of the Republican Study Committee aligned with the
speaker, not their committee leader. Many members of Congress
who are strongly associated with the Tea Parties backed the
Boehner bill, too, among them Renee Ellmers of  North Carolina ,
 Allen West  of  Florida  and James Lankford of  Oklahoma .  The same thing happened this spring, when most House
Republicans voted for a deal to keep the government open even
though the activist groups said they would score that vote
negatively. Only 59 Republicans voted no -- and again, most
freshmen and most Republican Study Committee members sided with
Boehner.  What happened last week was that about 12 percent of House
Republicans thought that they could use the sheer force of their
willpower as leverage to get a constitutional amendment. It was
never going to work, of course. They may have thought it would
because some activists, often described in the news media as
“leaders” or “spokesmen” for a vast movement, said it would. But
these activists do not speak for all or even a large fraction of
the people who share their limited-government principles,
especially on strategic or tactical questions.  Often Misunderstood  The freshmen Republicans associated with the Tea Parties
have often been misunderstood by friend and foe alike. They have
been seen as newcomers to politics who hate all compromise and
seethe with hostility to party leaders. Some of them do, but
many of them are practical conservatives with experience in
state and local politics.  The Tea Party faction that has been in the news over the
past week -- the group that sank Boehner’s plan -- demonstrated
that it could deny Republicans a majority when its members make
a tactical alliance with the Democrats, who unanimously opposed
the plan. Similarly, the Tea Partiers can punish Republicans and
help Democrats by sitting out general elections.  But the faction’s power in Republican primaries is
overrated. In 2010, only two Republican incumbents lost their
seats in primaries due to conservative opposition (carbon-tax
proponent Representative Bob Inglis of  South Carolina , and
party-switching Representative Parker Griffith of  Alabama ).
Senator Bob Bennett of  Utah  lost his seat in a caucus, which
rewards purists. The other big Tea Party wins came in open
seats. Sarah Palin is among those threatening Republican
representatives with primaries from the right.  An Irritant  Unless the Tea Party tide is stronger in 2012 than it was
in 2010, Republican incumbents are probably safe, at least if
they’re in places that use primaries.  In 2010, “the Tea Party” was journalistic shorthand for a
new influx of people and passion into conservatism. Allied with
other conservatives, they moved the Republican Party rightward.
Allied as well with a public alarmed by liberalism on the march,
they won a lot of elections. To the extent that Tea Partiers
devote their energies to attacking Republicans for not cutting
government fast enough, they will just be an irritant, as
splinters usually are.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 