-- 
Obama Signs Debt Plan to Avoid Default

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-08-02T21:59:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/debt-compromise-set-for-u-s-senate-vote-amid-doubts-over-impact-of-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  signed a debt-
limit compromise that prevents a U.S. default on the day the
Treasury had warned the nation’s borrowing authority would
expire, ending a months-long debate that reinforced partisan
divisions over federal spending.  The Senate voted 74-26 for the measure, which raises the
nation’s debt ceiling until 2013 and threatens automatic
spending cuts to enforce $2.4 trillion in spending reductions
over the next 10 years. It won backing from 45 Democrats, 28
Republicans and one independent. The House passed the plan
yesterday.  Obama said approval of the measure is a “first step” on a
path that must include increased revenue and spending cuts.  “We can’t balance the budget on the backs of the very
people who have borne the brunt of this recession,” the
president said in the White House  Rose Garden .  Passage ends a months-long battle over spending that
consumed Congress as lawmakers and the Obama administration
negotiated to the last days to avert a potential default. Still,
the compromise legislation defers decisions on the nation’s
finances to a bipartisan panel of lawmakers and may reduce
government deficits only modestly while slowing economic growth.  ‘Push and Pull’  “The push and pull Americans saw in Washington these past
few weeks was not gridlock,” said Senate Republican leader
 Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky. “It was the will of the people
working itself out in a political system that was never meant to
be pretty.”  “This bill does not solve the problem,” McConnell said.
“But it forces  Washington  to admit that it has one.”  Moody’s Investors Service today confirmed the AAA rating
for U.S. government bonds, citing the legislation raising the
statutory debt limit.  The agreement on the debt limit is a “first step” toward
maintaining the U.S. government debt metrics within AAA
parameters, Moody’s said. The outlook on the rating is now
negative.  Fitch Ratings  said the risk of a U.S. sovereign default
remains “extremely low.” Still, the U.S. needs to confront
“tough” choices on tax and spending against a weak economic
backdrop if the  budget deficit  is to be cut to safer levels over
the medium term, Fitch said.  Rating Review  Fitch said it expects to conclude its scheduled review of
the U.S. sovereign rating by the end of August.  For all the anxiety in Washington over the debt debate and
averting a default on the nation’s financial obligations,
investors with the most at stake made more money buying  Treasury
securities  in July than any month this year. They made $183,000
for every $10 million invested.  Investors snapped up Treasuries in the $9.34 trillion
market, driving yields on 10-year notes -- a benchmark for
everything from  mortgage rates  to corporate debt -- to the
lowest levels since November.  Treasury 30-year bonds rallied the most in more than a
year. Yields on 30-year bonds dropped 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 3.91 percent at 5:23 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It fell 18 basis
points earlier to touch 3.9 percent in the biggest drop since
May 2010. The 4.375 percent securities maturing in May 2041 rose
3 3/32, or $30.94 per $1,000 face amount, to 108 5/32.  10-Year Note  The 10-year note yields touched 2.60 percent, the lowest
since Nov. 9. The seven-day relative strength index of the 10-
year note yield dropped below 30, indicating a reversal of
direction may be imminent.  Stocks extended losses. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell for a seventh straight day, losing 2.6 percent to 1,254.05
at 4:31 p.m. in  New York . The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell
265.87 points, or 2.2 percent, to 11,866.62.  The House voted 269-161 yesterday for the deficit-reduction
measure, which raises the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling enough to
fund the government until 2013 and threatens automatic spending
cuts if a bipartisan congressional committee doesn’t identify
reductions that Congress will accept.  “Finally, Washington is taking some responsibility for
spending money we don’t have,” said  Lamar Alexander  of
Tennessee, the third-ranking Senate Republican. “This is a
change in behavior from spend, spend, spend to cut, cut, cut.”  Not ‘Without Pain’  Second-ranking Democrat  Dick Durbin  of Illinois said his
vote for the plan “does not come without pain” because it will
reduce funds for disease research and education programs for
poor children. Lawmakers must “be prepared to raise revenue”
in future efforts to cut the deficit, he said.  The legislation falls short of the long-term deficit
savings that Obama initially sought. The political obstacles to
reaching even the lower target are formidable, though the
measure’s sanctions improve prospects “a bit,” said  Peter Orszag , Obama’s former budget director.  “The fundamental problem is that we are hyper-polarized,
and that does not go away,” said Orszag, now a vice chairman of
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and a contributor to Bloomberg View. “This deal
is not going to solve that.”  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond mutual fund
at Pacific Investment Management Co., said the debt ceiling
compromise won’t make a “significant dent” in U.S. deficits.  “In addition to an existing nearly $10 trillion of
outstanding Treasury debt, the U.S. has a near unfathomable $66
trillion of future liabilities at net present cost,” Gross
wrote in a monthly investment outlook posted on the Newport
Beach, California-based company’s website today.  Entitlement Programs  Representative  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican who is
chairman of the House Budget Committee, said today on CNBC that
lawmakers must confront spiraling costs of entitlement programs.  “Medicare is driving itself into bankruptcy; Medicaid is
bankrupting states,” Ryan said. “Our health-care entitlements
are the core driver of our debt. Programs need to be reformed
and strengthened if they’re going to be saved.”  A $917 billion down payment in discretionary spending
reductions contained in the measure is back-loaded so more than
two-thirds of the cuts come after 2016. The spending reduction
next year is $21 billion, less than two-tenths of a percent of
U.S. gross domestic product.  Amid signs that the economic recovery slowed almost to a
standstill earlier this year, Michael Feroli, chief U.S.
economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co., said he expects the spending
cuts next year to “add modestly” to the drag on growth from
expiring provisions of the economic-stimulus package and the
scheduled Dec. 31 end of a temporary payroll  tax cut .  ‘Super-Committee’  While the measure specifies the $917 billion in
discretionary spending cuts over 10 years, the rest is left to a
panel of 12 members of Congress, split evenly between the two
parties.  That “super-committee” is supposed to come up with
recommendations by Nov. 23, with a guaranteed up-or-down vote by
Congress to prevent obstruction through parliamentary maneuvers.
If Congress doesn’t act, automatic spending cuts begin in 2013.  Still, the sanctions run up against a history of failure
when Congress has tried to motivate itself with threats of
penalties. No Congress can bind a successor, and the impact of
sanctions relies primarily on the political embarrassment of
reversing course.  The 1985 Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act set enforceable budget
targets that Democrats credit with pressuring Republican
President  Ronald Reagan  to agree to tax increases. Still, during
the five years of the law, the spending reductions required were
reduced in one case by Congress and in another overridden by a
subsequent budget agreement.  Military Spending  Among the sanctions that would trigger political pushback
if Congress didn’t meet its goals is an automatic cut of up to
$500 billion in military spending, which would come on top of
$325 billion in defense-spending reductions already in the deal.  “If the American military is cut as much, in the worst
case, as the proposal would cut it, it’s the beginning of the
end of America as a great international power,” Senator Joseph Lieberman, a Connecticut independent, said on the Senate floor
yesterday.  While the new joint committee will have broad jurisdiction
to reduce the deficit through both spending cuts and tax
increases, congressional rules present obstacles to using the
Bush-era tax cuts to meet that goal.  Revenue Baseline  The Congressional Budget Office’s revenue baseline assumes
those tax cuts will expire as scheduled at the end of 2012.
Republicans want a future revenue level equal to extending all
the cuts, while the administration wants to raise about $1.8
trillion above that level over the next decade by letting tax
cuts for only high-income earners expire. Measured against the
CBO’s yardstick, either approach would be viewed as a tax cut,
not deficit reduction.  Though White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the
committee could choose to use a different yardstick, at least
one Republican would have to agree for majority support.  “This compromise we have reached is not perfect,” said
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada. “The richest of
the rich have contributed nothing to this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  