-- 
Denmark Close to New Bank Bill to Help Sidestep Bail-In Law

-- B y   T a s n e e m   B r o g g e r
-- 
2011-08-03T11:35:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/denmark-close-to-new-bank-bill-to-avoid-spread-of-insolvencies.html
Denmark is close to proposing a new
bank bill that will seek to end a spate of lender failures and
help sidestep the European Union’s toughest resolution laws.  Lawmakers are in talks with industry representatives to
hammer out the details of a bill that will make it easier for
healthy banks to take over their troubled peers after
legislation  passed  in June failed to spur consolidation, said
Torsten Schack Pedersen, spokesman for the ruling  Liberal Party 
in charge of Economy and Business Affairs.  “We’ve started talks with the financial industry to try to
see whether we can find some extra tools,” he said in a phone
interview yesterday in Copenhagen. “It’s our starting point
that we won’t ask tax payers to foot the bill; there could be
ways of coming up with constructions that make it easier for a
troubled bank to be taken over by a healthier bank.”  Lawmakers have come under pressure to amend existing laws
after the failure of two regional lenders this year triggered
the EU’s first senior creditor losses within a resolution
framework.  Standard & Poor’s  said July 28 a further 15 banks in
the Nordic country “could default” costing as much as 12
billion kroner ($2.3 billion) in the next three years.  “There’s a meeting with the party representatives who
signed the original bill at the end of next week,” Schack
Pedersen said, adding a deal might be presented by the middle of
August.  Billing the Banks  In an effort to protect taxpayers, the government will
probably ask banks to contribute any further funds needed to
stabilize the industry, he said.  “It’s been a guiding principle of all our bank packages
that it’s the industry itself that finances the fallout of the
unfortunate transactions that some industry members have
taken,” Schack Pedersen said.  Shares of Danske Bank A/S, the country’s biggest, lost 1.3
percent to trade at 93.85 kroner at 1:28 p.m. in Copenhagen.
Vestjysk Bank A/S, ranked among the 10-riskiest in the Niro
report, rose as much as 3.8 percent before trading up 1.4
percent at 37.50. The yield on  Denmark ’s 10-year government bond
eased as much as seven basis points, sending the note to the
highest in at least a year.  Spate of Insolvencies  Denmark’s regional lenders face a spate of insolvencies
“due to loans made to the commercial property and agricultural
sectors during a short boom in 2005-2007,” S&P analyst Per Toernqvist said in last week’s report.  Any new bank package should ensure that more failures don’t
trigger the country’s bail-in rules, said Bent Naur, the
chairman of Denmark’s Local Bankers Association.  “There’s nothing wrong with having a tough resolution
framework,” he said by phone today. “The issue is that we
should also have mechanisms that make us able to avoid having to
use it. The Danish system hasn’t been copied yet, here a year
later, we can see no one in  Europe  has followed these rules.”  The banking crisis has been limited to Denmark’s regional
lenders. Amagerbanken A/S failed Feb. 6 because of its real-
estate lending, while Fjordbank Mors A/S collapsed on June 24
after it lost money on loans to the property industry and
farming.  Stress Tests  The country’s biggest lenders, Danske Bank, Jyske Bank A/S,
Nykredit A/S and Sydbank A/S all passed the EU’s stress tests
last month. The four exceeded a 5 percent minimum capital
requirement, European Banking Authority tests showed on July 15.
Results for the Danish lenders ranged from 9.4 percent to 13.6
percent, the EBA said.  Still, Denmark’s credit default swaps indicate investors
are concerned the country’s banking crisis may spread and hurt
the broader economy. The cost of insuring against default on
Denmark’s sovereign debt soared to a record last week, jumping
as much as 14 basis points on July 29 to 88, according to CMA.
The contracts, which rose from 28 basis points on June 7, were
the worst-performing of any government that month.  “We’re open to ensuring that there are more tools that we
can deploy to ensure that we increase the stability in Denmark’s
financial sector,” Schack Pedersen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tasneem Brogger in London at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  