-- 
Diggle’s New Hedge Fund Bets on Volatility as Crisis Shifts to Public Debt

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-08-02T22:57:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/diggle-s-new-hedge-fund-bets-on-volatility-as-crisis-shifts-to-public-debt.html
Stephen Diggle, the Singapore-based
hedge fund manager who made $2.7 billion for investors as
markets see-sawed in 2007 and 2008, is betting on price swings
in government debt, currency and commodity markets amid concern
that the debt crises in  Europe  and the U.S. may worsen.  There has been an “unprecedented level of transfer of
indebtedness from banks to governments” after the global
financial crisis that followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., said Diggle, who started Vulpes
Investment Management after liquidating Artradis Fund Management
Pte’s volatility funds this year.  “The fault lines have moved away from the private sector
to the public sector,” Diggle, 47, said. “These sorts of
distortions are coming about principally because of government
activity rather than excessive fear or greed amongst investors,
which is what normally causes volatility.”  European leaders are trying to keep the bailouts of  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  from spreading to Spain and  Italy , and
ratings firms have threatened to cut the U.S.’s AAA credit
rating. In contrast, non-financial companies’ balance sheets are
strong and stock valuations are currently “not extreme,”
Diggle said.  “I’m not sure if the next crisis will be centered on the
stock markets,” said Diggle. “It’s likely to be centered on
government debt markets,  currency markets  and probably commodity
markets.”  Fear Gauge  The VIX, a measure of market volatility known as Wall
Street’s “fear gauge,” last week posted its biggest weekly
surge since May 2010, as lawmakers clashed over spending cuts
and taxes when negotiating an increase of the $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling before the Aug. 2 deadline. The VIX, which rose to
25.25 on July 29, reached a record 80.86 on November 2008 after
Lehman’s collapse sent stocks plunging worldwide.  Diggle’s new alternative investments firm, Vulpes, started
its long Asian volatility and arbitrage fund, LAVA, on May 1
with $30.5 million, of which $30 million was the founding
partners’ money. The fund has gained 1.5 percent since May 1,
Diggle said.  Vulpes, set up on April 1, manages about $175 million,
including the Russian Opportunities Fund and Testudo Fund that
it took over from Artradis, Diggle said.  Fund Closure  Artradis, founded by Diggle and Richard Magides in 2001,
closed down in March after giving investors in the firm’s AB2
Fund and Barracuda Fund their money. Once  Singapore ’s biggest
hedge-fund manager, its funds lost $700 million for investors as
volatility declined in 2009 and 2010, Diggle said in May.
Artradis managed as much as $4.9 billion in 2008.  Similar to the Artradis Barracuda Fund, LAVA seeks to
produce returns that aren’t correlated with the market by
trading instruments that thrive on volatility, such as options,
warrants, and convertible bonds. The funds use strategies such
as arbitraging, or profiting from disparities in the price of
similar securities that are simultaneously traded on more than
one market, and tend to work well when markets go down.  While the LAVA fund is betting on “relative value
opportunities” in the region’s equity markets, it’s also using
a “different playbook,” Diggle said. The fund has been buying
gold options, which would be a “good proxy” for rising
inflation, a dollar crisis and any default by the U.S.
government, Diggle said. Gold futures topped $1,660 an ounce,
extending a rally to a record, as escalating concern that the
global economy is losing momentum spurred demand for the
precious metal as an investment haven.  LAVA is also trading options on interest-rate swaps and
bond markets to bet on moves in  interest rates  and government
debt, and is buying credit-default swaps, Diggle said.  “I’d rather be long corporate bonds than  government bonds 
in essence because I see private prosperity and public
squalor,” Diggle said. “I just came back from Italy where the
cars are expensive but the roads are bad. People have money but
governments don’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  