-- 
Dividend Cut Seen at EON, RWE as Nuclear Exit Erodes Profit

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-08-03T15:48:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/dividend-cuts-seen-at-eon-rwe-as-atomic-power-exit-cuts-profit.html
EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , the European power
companies with the highest dividends, are poised to cut their
payouts as Germany’s pledge to phase out nuclear plants erodes
profit and increases costs.  EON, yielding 8 percent after its shares lost a fifth of
their value this year, may cut its dividend to 1 euro ($1.43)
from a 1.30-euro minimum promised last year, Nomura Holding
Inc.’s Martin Young forecast. RWE pays 9.8 percent, following a
30 percent slump in the market. It may need to slash this year’s
payout 32 percent, according to analysts at Citigroup Inc.  Dividend cuts may drive investors to switch into U.K. and
central European utility stocks, such as  Austria ’s  Verbund AG (VER) 
and  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc (SSE) , where power prices are
likely to increase and local regulators aren’t ordering plant
shutdowns, analysts at Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse said.  “The question is not if they cut their dividends, it’s by
how much,” Kepler Capital Markets analyst Ingo Becker said in a
phone interview from  Frankfurt . “Losing nuclear hits earnings
and could be a reason to change their payout policy.”  A public backlash following the meltdowns and radiation
escapes at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant drove the German
government to announce plans to close all its reactors by 2022.
First-half earnings may drop 55 percent at EON and 42 percent at
RWE because of costs associated with the nuclear phase-out,
according to research by analysts at UniCredit SpA.  Germany ’s Reactors  Essen-based RWE, with five of Germany’s 17 reactors, is
scheduled to close its first in 2016. EON, with six, is set to
begin unplugging by 2019 under the German government’s plan.  Rebecca Middleton, a spokeswoman for EON in Dusseldorf, and
Annett Urbaczka, a spokeswoman for RWE in Essen, declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News. EON fell 1.2 percent
to 18.22 euros in Frankfurt trading. RWE fell 1.8 percent to
34.53 euros.  EON will consider reducing its 1.30-euro minimum guaranteed
dividend for 2011 and 2012 at an Aug. 8 supervisory board
meeting,  Rheinische Post  reported yesterday, citing unidentified
people close to German labor unions.  Political risks and rising fuel costs for natural gas are
undermining the defensive qualities of some European utility
stocks, UniCredit analysts including Scott Phillips wrote in a
July 8 note to investors. Investors seeking security should
consider stocks with minimal political risk and markets that are
open to rate increases, they said.  Attractive Policies  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA in  France , which is paying about 6.8 percent,
and Italy-based  Enel SpA (ENEL) , at 7.2 percent, both have attractive
dividend policies, the UniCredit analysts said. Verbund and CEZ
AS offer investors access to central European power prices,
which are likely to rise as older plants are shut down,
according to Deutsche Bank.  The European debt crisis has left governments scrambling to
raise money, often by imposing taxes on utilities.  The Finnish government announced plans in June to collect
170 million euros annually in a windfall tax on any gains made
from  emissions trading  by the country’s utilities.  In France, EDF faces the political risk of presidential
elections next June and is under pressure from legislation that
forces the company to sell more power to rivals.  Britain is a “safe haven,” Ashley Thomas, an analyst at
MF Global Holdings Ltd., said in an interview. “Although the
political risk has increased on an absolute basis, it’s still
lower than in other countries like France and Germany,” he
said. RWE’s dividend may decline from 3.50 euros in 2010 to 1.90
euros in 2011, he added.  Committed to Paying  Centrica, based in Windsor,  England , said in 2008 that it
will increase dividends at least in line with the U.K.’s Retail
Price Index. Scottish & Southern, which has paid stockholders an
above-inflation annual dividend for the last 12 years, committed
to a full-year payment of at least 2 percent more than inflation
in fiscal year 2012 and 2013.  “Scottish & Southern and  National Grid Plc (NG/)  have high
dividend yields, but I think they are sustainable,” Credit
Suisse analyst Mark Freshney said in an e-mail. Both companies
give shareholders the option to take stock in new shares rather
than cash, and between 15 percent and 29 percent usually do, he
said. The grid operator has a 6.8 percent yield.  EON management is likely to cut its 2011 and 2012 dividend
to 1.10 euros per share and maintain a 50 percent to 60 percent
payout policy in 2013, Sofia Savvantidou and Andrew Simms,
analysts at Citigroup, wrote in a note to investors. Such a cut
would ensure payments are sustainable and save the utility,
Germany’s largest, more than 1 billion euros in  cash flow  and 22
billion euros in balance sheet reserves, they said.  ‘One Big Cut’  “Because of the pressure these companies have been having
-- operationally and from government -- their balance sheets are
stretched,” Savvantidou said in a telephone interview. “It’s
better to make one big cut than four or five small ones.”  EON plans to update the market on its strategy on Aug. 10
in an earnings presentation, while RWE will release first-half
results on Aug. 11.  “The dividend payout is one contributing element to their
debt, but the other story is politics,” Kepler’s Becker said.
The companies may cut jobs at home and rely more on operations
abroad, he said, adding RWE may also consider a rights offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  