-- 
Dollar Can Withstand U.S. Credit-Rating Downgrade, HSBC’s David Bloom Says

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-08-02T07:31:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/dollar-can-withstand-u-s-credit-rating-downgrade-hsbc-s-david-bloom-says.html
The dollar is unlikely to suffer a
“cataclysmic selloff” should the U.S. lose its AAA  credit
rating , given investors’ limited alternatives to the world’s
reserve currency, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  A deal between President  Barack Obama  and Republicans
struck over the weekend aims to raise the $14.3 trillion federal
borrowing limit enough to fund the government until 2013 while
cutting spending by $2.4 trillion over the next decade. The
House voted 269-161 yesterday to approve the measure while
Congressional leaders voiced confidence a Senate vote today will
ratify the debt-limit compromise and avert a default.  “If the U.S. is downgraded, the dollar might sell off at
the margins, but there isn’t going to be a slam-dunk,
cataclysmic selloff that is suddenly going to make everyone hate
the dollar and love the euro,” said  David Bloom , London-based
global head of currency strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc. “The
problem with currencies is that if you sell one you have to buy
another, and there isn’t really an alternative to the dollar.
The unfortunate thing about bunds is that they’re issued in
euros.”  The dollar strengthened for a second day against the euro,
appreciating 0.6 percent to $1.4162 to the shared currency at
8:31 a.m. in London.  Standard & Poor’s  said on July 14 that it may downgrade the
U.S., giving 50 percent odds that the credit rating would be cut
within 90 days, even if an agreement was reached on raising the
federal borrowing limit.  “People still have faith in the U.S. and faith in the
dollar as the world’s reserve currency,” said Bloom. “The U.S.
is a massive market and it’s hard to get away from it.”  HSBC sees dollar ending the year at $1.44 per euro,
according to Bloom. Still, the U.S. currency’s value is likely
to be gradually “eroded over time,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  