-- 
Medvedev’s Vodka Crackdown Hitting CEDC Outlook as Analysts Cut Targets

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-08-02T15:27:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/medvedev-s-vodka-crackdown-hitting-cedc-outlook-as-analysts-cut-targets.html
Russian president  Dmitry Medvedev ’s
push to curb alcoholism and regulate liquor sales is hurting the
outlook for the world’s biggest vodka producer.  ING Groep NV is forecasting a 16 percent decline in second
quarter sales for  Central European Distribution Corp. (CDC) , which
produces the Zubrowka, Parliament and Green Mark vodka brands,
according to a note today. Alex Howson, a London-based analyst
at Jefferies Group Inc. cut his estimate for the stock to $12
from $20 while maintaining a “buy” recommendation, he wrote in
an e-mailed report today.  Last month, Medvedev approved a  law  that restricts
advertising for liquor, bans alcohol sales in stores after 11
p.m. and establishes licensing for alcohol transportation.
Earlier regulations requiring wholesale customers to renew their
alcohol licenses will cause “double-digit volume decline” for
CEDC in the second quarter, Howson wrote in the report.
Wholesalers form 75 percent of CEDC’s customers in  Russia , he
said.  CEDC had a “tough” second quarter with reduced alcohol
sales and pressure on margins as the company’s wholesale
customers used up inventory while renewing licenses under the
government’s new rules, Howson wrote.  “Management is likely to cut its full-year earnings
guidance,” the ING analysts said.  Shares of the Nasdaq-listed CEDC declined 1.8 percent to
$9.351 by 10:12 a.m. in  New York .  75,000 Deaths  Russia is the second-largest market after  Poland  for CEDC,
owner of vodka producer Russian Alcohol Group. Vodka makes up 88
percent of spirits sales in Russia, the world’s biggest alcohol
market, according to a report released last year by investment
bank Troika Dialog.  Russia announced plans in December 2009 to reduce alcohol
consumption by 72 percent to 5 liters per person a year by 2020.
That’s three liters below the  World Health Organization ’s
accepted consumption level.  “More than 75,000 people are dying from excessive
drinking,” the country’s Alcohol Market Regulation Federal
Service said on its website at the time. Proposals included
price controls, limiting alcohol retail sales by time and
location and increasing the excise tax.  The government’s measures will lead to market consolidation
and halve illegal vodka consumption in the next five years,
benefiting CEDC, even as it contributes to a “continuing
overall decline,” Howson wrote.  -- Editors: Alex Nicholson, Peter Branton  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London on 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  