-- 
Meggitt, Senior Target Sales Boost as Airbus Reengines Planes

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-08-02T10:23:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/meggitt-senior-target-sales-boost-as-airbus-reengines-planes.html
Meggitt Plc (MGGT)  and  Senior Plc (SNR) , U.K.
parts suppliers to Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA) , are holding talks
with engine makers as component suppliers jostle for lucrative
contracts to help supply a boom in reengined narrow-body planes.  Airbus’ reengined A320neo has become the fastest-selling
jet since its introduction in December, prompting Boeing to
begin planning a new version of its rival jet, the 737. Narrow-
body planes “will be a significant contribution” to future
revenue, Meggitt Chief Executive Officer Terry Twigger said in
an interview today.  Senior, which makes airducts for Boeing 787 Dreamliners, is
supplying quotes to both engine makers for additional ducts for
narrow-body planes, CEO Mark Rollins said in an interview.
Christchurch-based Meggitt is looking to increase orders for its
seals and some engine electronics. Both companies already supply
parts for airframes.  “The recent decision by Airbus to put new engines on the
A320 offers us an opportunity,” Senior’s Rollins said. The
Rickmansworth, England-based company currently supplies $71,000
of components to each A320 and $238,000 per 737.  Boeing, based in  Chicago , is offering CFM’s Leap-X on its
737 upgrade, while Toulouse-based Airbus offers the Leap-X and
 Pratt & Whitney ’s geared turbofan for the A320neo. Airbus is a
unit of European Aeronautic, Defence and Space Co.  “Narrowbodies are important planes to be on because they
are the highest volume airplanes and there is a good aftermarket
for sales of spares and repairs because they work very hard,”
said Twigger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  