-- 
Egypt Stocks Decline to Lowest Since May Before Mubarak Trial

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-08-02T12:46:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/egypt-stocks-decline-to-lowest-since-may-before-mubarak-trial.html
Egyptian stocks fell to the lowest
level in almost three months before the start of the trial of
former President  Hosni Mubarak , his sons and others for alleged
corruption and killing of demonstrators earlier this year.  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) , North Africa’s biggest mobile-
networks operator, dropped to the lowest since March.  Commercial
International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , also known as CIB, lost 1.5
percent. The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  tumbled 2.1 percent to
4,967.04 at the 1:30 p.m. close in Cairo, the lowest level since
May 10.  The trial of the ex-president, his sons Alaa and Gamal,
former Interior Minister Habibi el-Adly and others will begin in
Cairo tomorrow. Mubarak is the first president of the Arab
country to be prosecuted.  “Concerns are growing amongst the general populace that
there may be clashes at the trial and this is leading to some
fairly aggressive selling in an already weak bid environment,”
said  Julian Bruce , head of equity sales at EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE in Dubai.  Egyptian security forces opened Cairo’s Tahrir Square to
traffic yesterday and dismantled tents set up by protesters
staging a sit-in that began July 8 to demand faster change after
the ouster of Mubarak. At least 846 people have been killed
since the start of the uprising in January that forced Mubarak
to step down and cede interim rule to a military council on Feb.
11.  Orascom Telecom declined 3.3 percent to 3.76 Egyptian
Egyptian pounds. CIB, the country’s biggest publicly traded
lender, retreated the most in two weeks to 26.76 pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  