-- 
Elementis Enters Multiple Talks Over Potential Takeover Targets

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-08-02T09:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/elementis-enters-multiple-talks-over-potential-takeover-targets.html
Elementis Plc (ELM) , a British maker of
paint additives, is holding many discussions over potential
acquisition targets as it seeks to reinvest cash, Finance
Director Brian Taylorson said in an interview.  “We’re spending a lot of time on this and talking to a lot
of people,” Taylorson said today. “It’s an area where you have
to explore 20 opportunities to find one.”  While there’s more competition for good chemical assets,
the large mergers that have already taken place in the industry
can result in divisions being sold, the executive said.  U.K. chemical makers including Yule Catto & Co. have
undertaken deals to transform themselves, and Elementis is
“very keen” to reinvest cash in acquisitions, Taylorson said.
The London-based company has also refocused on more value-added
additives used to improve the performance of coatings.  Elementis has benefited from large-scale mergers and
acquisitions in the chemical industry, such as Dow Chemical
Co.’s purchase of Rohm & Haas Co., as companies get distracted
by integrating and combining assets, he said.  “There’s been some pretty significant mergers and that
does tend to cause customers a certain unease,” Taylorson said.
“For a niche player like us, it’s an opportunity to demonstrate
our skills when some of the larger players are distracted.”  The company reported first-half earnings before interest
and taxes of $72.2 million, an increase of 48 percent from a
year earlier, while net income climbed to $48.2 million from
$32.2 million. year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had
estimated Ebit of $66 million. The order book for the third
quarter is “pretty solid,” Taylorson said.  Revenue advanced 11 percent to $396 million, while debt
fell by one-half to $54.4 million. The company held its dividend
at 2.34 cents as it seeks to increase the weight of the payout
in the second half rather than have an even split.  Elementis rose 0.1 percent to 161.2 pence at 10:13 a.m. in
London trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  