-- 
Eliminating Contraceptive Copays Is in Insurers’ Interest: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-02T00:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/eliminating-contraceptive-copayments-is-in-insurers-best-interest-view.html
Should health insurance companies be
required to cover the entire range of birth-control services,
and do so in full -- no copayments, no deductibles?  A panel of the  Institute of Medicine , an arm of the
 National Academy of Sciences , has recommended that the
 Department of Health  and Human Services adopt this mandate. On
Monday,  Kathleen Sebelius , the HHS secretary, raised the ire of
cultural conservatives and fiscal watchdogs by  requiring 
insurers to fully cover contraceptives starting next August.  In an era of tight budgets, it’s fair to ask whether the
expenditure is worth it. It is -- if you factor in the true
costs. Contraception is one area of medicine where it is
beneficial to invest fully in the upfront expenses to maximize
the health-care savings later on.  Contraception prevents unwanted pregnancies, abortions and
miscarriages -- all of which can result in fairly expensive
medical procedures. In 2007, insurers spent $9,000 for the
average live birth, according to  calculations  by  James Trussell ,
a Princeton University economist. Treatment for a miscarriage or
an induced abortion cost insurers more than $500.  There were more than  3 million  unintended pregnancies in
2001, the last year for which the data are available. And in
that year, when the costs of childbirth, abortion and
miscarriage were less than in 2007, they added up to $5 billion,
according to Trussell. Contraceptive use in 2001, he has found,
saved $19 billion in direct medical costs.  Insurers’ Average Cost  Meanwhile, the average yearly cost to an insurer of
providing full coverage for the entire range of contraceptive
methods and counseling services (with no copays or deductibles)
is  about $40 , according to actuarial figures compiled for the
National Business Group on Health, a nonprofit association of
large U.S. employers.  Why force insurers to foot the entire bill? Because in
choosing a form of  birth control , people are often guided by
price. And, in general, the most effective forms come with the
highest upfront costs.  Condoms are cheap, but because they’re not always used
properly there is a  15 percent chance  that they will not prevent
pregnancy during the first year of typical use. Birth-control
pills fail 9 percent of the time, as women sometimes forget to
take their daily dose. But pills are a popular choice ( 28
percent  of women using contraception take them) because they
cost only $14 a month for the average woman with prescription-
drug insurance coverage.  Effective but Expensive  The most effective forms of contraception, with failure
rates at or below 1 percent, are sterilization, intrauterine
devices and hormonal implants. These cost several hundred
dollars, and although they may last for several years or more,
the costs are all upfront. Even couples whose insurance
companies foot most of the bill find it cheaper in the short run
to choose birth-control pills or condoms.  While sterilization is surprisingly common -- among people
who practice birth control, 27 percent opt for female
sterilization and nearly 10 percent for vasectomies -- IUDs are
used by only 5.5 percent, and hormonal implants by about 1
percent. If more couples used more reliable forms of
contraception, that $19 billion in annual medical savings would
rise.  Although Secretary Sebelius will take heat for her
decision, there are strong economic arguments in her favor. The
reason insurers should pay 100 percent is to take price out of
the equation. Insurance companies would have to pay a little
more for contraception, but it could still lower health-care
costs for them, and for all of us.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 