-- 
Tepco Disaster Sends Commercial Paper Sales to 18-Month High: Japan Credit

-- B y   S a b u r o   F u n a b i k i   a n d   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-08-02T02:33:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/tepco-disaster-sends-commercial-paper-sales-to-18-month-high-japan-credit.html
Short-term borrowing with commercial
paper reached an 18-month high in  Japan , after the country’s
worst nuclear disaster in 25 years raised the cost of selling
bonds for power producers.  Commercial paper outstanding  reached 16.4 trillion yen
($211 billion) on July 22, the highest since the week ended Jan.
15, 2010, according to  Japan Securities Depository Center Inc. 
Issuance by electric power and gas utilities totaled 1.04
trillion yen, the most since 2009, more than quadrupling since
the March 11 disaster. U.S. non-financial companies have $189
billion outstanding in America’s commercial paper market, up
55.8 percent from Dec. 31, according to Federal Reserve data.  Utilities sought short-term IOUs after investors demanded
40 basis points more in yield to own power company bonds than
the nation’s government debt. That’s up from 12 basis points
before a tsunami caused meltdowns at a nuclear plant, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Japan Utility Index.  “Utilities have been boosting commercial paper issuance
since it became clear around May to June that bond sales would
be difficult,” said Hiroshi Seki, a market economist at  Tokyo 
Tanshi Co., a money market brokerage affiliated with ICAP Plc.  Kansai Electric Power Co., which relies on nuclear power
for about half its output, last week reported commercial paper
rose eightfold to 239 billion yen in the quarter ended June 30,
the highest in eight years, according to spokesman Masanori
Tanaka. The company, which postponed bond sales in June, cited
payment of corporate taxes and dividends for the increase in
commercial paper debt.  Record Loss  Commercial paper at Chubu Electric Power Co., which also
delayed a bond sale in June, almost doubled to 213 billion yen
in the period, its highest level in two years. The company,
which was ordered in May to shut operations at its Hamaoka
nuclear plant to address safety concerns, had 112 billion yen in
commercial paper last quarter.  The electric companies are facing a shortfall in power
supply as almost two-thirds of the country’s reactors are shut
for maintenance and must be tested before restarting.  Kansai Electric  last week withdrew its full-year sales and
profit outlook while Chubu Electric forecast a record 52 billion
yen net loss. The utilities cited the impact on earnings from
power-savings measures and the shutdown of reactors.  Kyushu Electric Power Co. increased commercial paper
sevenfold to 210 billion yen last quarter from the previous
three-month period, while Shikoku Electric Power Co. more than
tripled its outstanding balance to 43 billion yen. Commercial
paper at Hokkaido Electric Power Co. more than doubled 43
billion yen, the company said last week.  ‘Extra Financing’  “Taking into account the uncertain environment following
the disaster, the company decided to secure extra financing,”
said Kazuhiro Ohtomo, a spokesman for Hokkaido Electric. Ohtomo
declined to give further details.  Commercial paper typically matures within 270 days and is
used to finance a company’s everyday activities such as payroll
and rent.  Tokyo Electric  Power Co., the operator of Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant damaged by the March 11 disaster and
previously the largest borrower in the market, has no commercial
paper outstanding.  Japan’s government drafted a law last week calling for
electric power companies to fund a state-organized body created
to handle claims against Tokyo Electric. At the same time, the
government ordered so-called stress tests in July, causing
delays to restarting nuclear reactors idled for maintenance.  That forced utilities to postpone bond sales, except for
Okinawa Electric Power Co., Japan’s only regional power producer
without a nuclear plant.  Nuclear Shutdowns  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  on July 13 pledged to reduce
Japan’s reliance on nuclear energy -- an about face for an
economy that depended on atomic power for up to 30 percent of
its needs last year.  “We should reduce nuclear dependency in a planned, step-
by-step manner,” he said. “We should eventually create a
society where we can do without atomic energy.”  Of Japan’s 54 reactors, 38 are idled or inactive after the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami caused three meltdowns at
Fukushima plant.  Utilities will likely continue to issue commercial paper to
pay for rising fuel costs, as  oil prices  remain high and as
reliance on thermal power increases due to shutdowns of atomic
plants, Tokyo Tanshi’s Seki said.  Power companies may not be able to fully pass on higher
energy costs to customers, eroding their earnings and leading to
risk of a credit rating downgrade, said Soichi Okuda, chief
economist at Sumitomo Shoji Research Institute in Tokyo.  Credit Ratings  Chugoku Electric Power Co. said it will have a 4 billion
yen net loss in the six months ending Sept. 30, compared with a
profit of 1.2 billion yen a year earlier, because of higher fuel
costs.  Rating & Investment Information Inc., a Japanese credit
rating company, cut the debt grades of eight regional utilities
in June.  Electric utilities have to pay higher rates to issue
commercial paper than other companies. Three- to six-month CP
rates for utilities with the highest a-1 plus credit rating were
0.22 to 0.26 percent in mid-June, double from pre-quake levels,
according to Tokyo Tanshi. Even amid general declines in rates
in July, some power producers issued short-term IOUs at 0.16
percent, higher than 0.11 to 0.12 percent for electronics and
leasing companies with the lower a-1 rating.  Lower Than U.S.  Three-month commercial paper rates for companies with the
second-highest credit rating are 0.115 percent in Japan,
compared with 0.28 percent to 0.31 percent in the U.S. Rates on
three-month commercial paper are 1.5 basis points more than
those on similar-maturity government bills in Japan, compared
with spreads of 21 basis points in the U.S.  The  Bank of Japan  quadrupled purchases of commercial paper
to 2 trillion yen in the wake of the March 11 quake. The bank’s
 purchases  of commercial paper totaled 1.7 trillion yen on July
20, accounting for 10 percent of Japan’s total issuance
outstanding.  “It’s clear the BOJ’s commercial paper purchases are
supporting utilities’ fund raising,” Tokyo Tanshi’s Seki said.  If power producers can’t sell bonds, they may have to
depend more on short-term borrowing, including bank loans,
Sumitomo’s Okuda said.  Power shortages and higher costs from the shutdown of
nuclear plants may prompt more Japanese companies to move
production overseas. The yen’s appreciation, up 11.5 percent
against the dollar in the past 12 months, and concerns over
power supply may hasten the shift abroad, Bank of Japan board
member Hidetoshi Kamezaki said on July 27.  “We’ll face an ‘electricity deflation’ if power demand
decreases while we conserve energy,” said Tokuyoshi Takano, a
financial derivatives manager in Tokyo at Mitsui Sumitomo
Insurance Co. “The government and the BOJ should set up a
framework to help power producers raise funds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saburo Funabiki in Tokyo at 
 sfunabiki@bloomberg.net ;
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  