-- 
Tepco Reports Second Deadly Radiation Reading at Fukushima Nuclear Plant

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-08-03T09:24:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/tepco-reports-second-deadly-radiation-reading-at-fukushima-plant.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. reported its
second deadly radiation reading in as many days at its wrecked
Fukushima nuclear plant north of Tokyo.  The utility known as Tepco said yesterday it detected 5
sieverts of radiation per hour in the No. 1 reactor building. On
Aug. 1 in another area it recorded radiation of 10 sieverts per
hour, enough to kill a person “ within a few weeks ” after a
single exposure, according to the  World Nuclear Association .  Radiation has impeded attempts to replace cooling systems
to bring three melted reactors and four damaged spent fuel ponds
under control after a tsunami on March 11 crippled the plant.
The latest reading was taken on the second floor of the No. 1
reactor building and will stop workers entering the area.  “It’s probably the first of many more to come,” said
Michael Friedlander, who spent 13 years operating nuclear  power
plants  in the U.S., including the Crystal River Station in
 Florida . “Although I am not surprised, it concerns me greatly;
the issue is the worker safety.”  The 10 sieverts of radiation detected on Aug. 1 outside
reactor buildings was the highest the Geiger counters used were
capable of reading, indicating the level could have been higher,
Junichi Matsumoto, a general manager at the utility, said at a
press conference.  Upper Limit  “Ten sieverts is the upper limit for many dosimeters and
almost equal to the amount that killed workers at the JCO
nuclear accident in 1999,” said Tomoko Murakami, a nuclear
researcher at the Institute of Energy Economics, Japan.  In that accident, then the world’s worst since Chernobyl in
1986, more than 600 people were exposed to radiation after
workers inadvertently started a nuclear chain reaction while
processing nuclear fuel at a plant near Tokyo. Two employees of
JCO Co., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sumitomo Metal Mining Co.,
died from  radiation exposure .  Tepco was forced to pump water into the three Fukushima
reactors after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami disabled
cooling systems. The company in May estimated there would be
200,000 tons of radiated water in basements and other areas of
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant by December.  “If nuclear fuels melted through containment chambers,
Tepco will find even higher radiation readings after water in
building basements is removed,” said Tetsuo Ito, the head of
the Atomic Energy Research Institute at Kinki University.  Radiation Leaks  Tepco has been criticized by the government for withholding
radiation data and other missteps that have worsened the crisis.
About 160,000 people have been evacuated from areas stretching
20 kilometers and more from the plant.  On May 27, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said Tepco’s
withholding radiation data was contributing to “public
distrust.” The utility responded by saying it will publish in
August the combined figures of radiation released into the
atmosphere and in contaminated water. It hasn’t given a date for
release of that information.  Radiation leaks from the Fukushima reactors have spread
over 600 square kilometers, Tomio Kawata, a fellow at the
Nuclear Waste Management Organization of  Japan , said in a
research report published on May 24 and given to the government.  Radioactive soil in pockets of areas outside the exclusion
zone around the plant have reached the same level as in
Chernobyl following a reactor explosion in the former  Soviet
Union , the report said.  Hot Spots  The threats to Japan’s food chain are also multiplying as
radioactive cesium emissions from the Fukushima plant spread.
Contaminated beef has been found on supermarket shelves around
the country, forcing the government to ban cattle shipments from
areas in northern Japan.  The latest high radiation readings are probably coming from
materials released during early failed attempts to release
pressure in containment vessels and vent hydrogen gas to prevent
explosions that damaged reactor buildings, Matsumoto said. There
were about 2,760 workers at the plant on Aug 1.  Tepco on April 17 set out a so-called road map to end the
crisis by January, aiming to bring down radiation levels at the
plant within three months and then achieve a so-called cold
shutdown where reactor temperatures fall below 100 degrees
Celsius (212 degrees Fahrenheit).  The utility needs to investigate other areas that may hold
high radiation levels in line with the cold-shutdown and clean
up, said Murakami at Energy Economics.  “Tepco workers and its subcontractors who know the
Fukushima plant well may be the only ones that can discover such
hot spots,” he said. “For people new to the plant it’s
deadly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  