-- 
Merafe Says S. Africa Must Limit Chrome Ore Exports to China

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-08-02T12:16:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/merafe-says-s-africa-must-control-chrome-ore-exports-to-china.html
South Africa should consider export
duties and other controls to stop a surge in chrome ore sales to
 China  so local ferrochrome makers can stay competitive, the head
of  Merafe Resources Ltd. (MRF)  said.  South African producers of ferrochrome, made from chrome
ore, have hired independent consultants to investigate the
industry, and a report with proposals to control exports will be
submitted to the government by the end of September, Chief
Executive Officer Stuart Elliot said today in Johannesburg.  Chinese ferrochrome output rose 12 percent to 1.2 million
metric tons in the year to June, compared with 0.1 percent
growth to 1.85 million tons in South Africa, according to
estimates by Xanten, Germany-based market research company Heinz
H. Pariser. Local makers of ferrochrome, used in stainless steel
production, don’t want to have to compete against Chinese buyers
for chrome ore.  “The industry is struggling,” Elliot said. Royalty taxes,
rising electricity costs and a proposed carbon tax will “make
 South Africa  extremely expensive” in the medium term and will
damage the industry and lead to job losses, he said.  South African exports of chrome ore to China have risen 19
percent since 2008 and totaled 3.1 million metric tons in 2010,
or nearly 36 percent of total Chinese imports, according to
Heinz Pariser. South African exports for the year to date
totaled 2 million tons, nearly half of total Chinese imports,
according to the research company.  The increase in South African chrome ore exports is
attributed to rising sales by platinum producers, which mine
chrome ore as a byproduct, and increasing ferrochrome production
capacity in China, Elliot said.  Merafe is part-owner with  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  of the world’s
biggest ferrochrome producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  