-- 
Metro Shares Approach Two-Year Low on Profit Warning Concerns

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-08-02T10:14:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/metro-profit-misses-expectations-on-consumer-electronics-loss.html
Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s largest retailer,
dropped to its lowest in almost two years in Frankfurt trading
on concern that a loss at the consumer electronics unit will
push the company’s full-year profit target out of reach.  The retailer today reported second-quarter net income of 40
million euros ($57 million), missing a 87.8 million-euro analyst
estimate. Earnings before interest, tax and one-time items fell
8 percent to 306 million euros on stagnant sales of 15.7 billion
euros.  Metro shares plunged as much 4.8 percent to the lowest
intraday price since Sept. 21, 2009. While the Dusseldorf-based
company repeated its goal of boosting adjusted earnings before
interest and tax by about 10 percent this year, it said today in
a statement that the “risk-reward profile” has deteriorated as
consumer sentiment worsens.  “The key near-term controversy for Metro, in our view,
remains the achievability of full-year profit guidance,”
Sanford C. Bernstein analysts including Chris Hogbin wrote in a
note to investors. “The possibility of a profit warning will
likely continue to weigh on Metro’s stock.”  Metro fell 4.2 percent to 36.23 euros at 12:06 p.m. local
time. The shares have dropped 33 percent this year, cutting the
company’s market value to 11.8 billion euros.  ‘Very Late’  Chief Executive Officer Eckhard Cordes is cutting 3,000
jobs and plans savings of 500 million euros between 2012 and
2014 to counter a decline in demand at its Media Markt and
Saturn consumer-electronics stores. The Dusseldorf-based
retailer pledged to improve prices and sell more online to
improve profitability after a second-quarter operating loss of
44 million euros and a drop in sales at the division.  “They’re very late” trying to turn around Media-Saturn,
said  Peter Steiner , an analyst at BHF-Bank, who has an
“overweight” rating on the stock. “They are going in the
right direction. The question is how the measures are
implemented and how customers accept them.”  Metro may sell its Kaufhof department-store chain or form
an alliance for the unit, executives said on a conference call
with analysts. Nobody is conducting a due diligence of the unit
at the moment, they added. The company previously denied a July
28 report in Germany’s Lebensmittel-Zeitung that it was close to
selling the unit to Spanish retailer El Cortes Ingles SA for 1.7
billion euros.  Metro said its Real supermarket chain suffered as customers
were reluctant to buy fruit and vegetables following an E. coli
outbreak that began in May. Metro is also considering a sale or
partnership for Real, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  