-- 
Syria Targets Hama as EU Seeks Condemnation

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-08-02T15:05:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/europe-submits-new-draft-un-resolution-condemning-syria-s-assad.html
Syrian forces shelled Hama with tanks
and artillery for a third day as European countries pushed for a
 United Nations  resolution condemning President Bashar al-Assad’s
latest crackdown.  The army assault on the city of 800,000 drew protesters
into the streets of Damascus and elsewhere in the country late
yesterday and overnight into the second day of the Muslim holy
month of Ramadan, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization
for Human Rights, said by telephone from the capital.  At least 19 people were killed yesterday in the suburbs of
Damascus and Hama, and in Bukamal, Idlib and Homs, said Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human Rights. Security
forces have killed at least 164 in the past three days, most of
them in Hama, the country’s fourth-biggest city, where tanks
shelled residential areas, including mosques, the activists
said.  The UN Security Council is meeting in  New York  to discuss a
revised draft resolution that was submitted by Britain,  France ,
 Germany  and  Portugal  to condemn the violence. The crackdown is
the bloodiest since the Syrian uprising began in mid-March
following protests across the Arab world that ousted the leaders
of Tunisia and  Egypt . The rallies have left Assad entrenched,
while a rebellion in  Libya  has yet to dislodge  Muammar Qaddafi .  Ramadan Worshippers  The assault came as opposition forces vowed to step up
their campaign against Assad during Ramadan, the Islamic month
of fasting and prayer. Family and community groups typically
gather for evening meals during the month to break their fasts,
and more people attend special services at mosques.  Armed groups in Hama began targeting government buildings
with machine-gun fire and used Molotov cocktails to set them
ablaze yesterday, the state-run SANA news agency said today,
citing an unidentified official. They attacked a military
conscription center and stole identification cards and uniforms,
possibly to pose as soldiers while carrying out criminal acts,
SANA reported.  More than 2,100 protesters have been killed in  Syria  since
March, according to Merhi and Qurabi. More than 500 members of
the security forces have been killed, Deputy Foreign Minister
Fayssal Mekdad said in an interview with  India’s News X channel .  Biggest Challenge  The unrest poses the biggest challenge to Assad’s rule
since he inherited power from his father, Hafez al-Assad, 11
years ago. Assad has blamed the protests on foreign-inspired
plots, while conceding that some demonstrators have legitimate
demands and pledging political changes.  “There are extremist religious groups that exercise
violence and terrorism,” Mekdad told News X. “There is no
revolution.”  The attack on Hama, accounting for most the deaths in the
past three days, has prompted renewed calls for global action.
 Amnesty International  said the ongoing slaughter should be
referred to the International Criminal Court, which investigates
charges of genocide.  Hama was the site of a 1982 uprising that was crushed by
Assad’s father, leaving about 10,000 people dead, according to
Human Rights Watch. Estimates by groups including the New York-
based  International Center for Transitional Justice  put the
death toll at about 20,000.  Media Restrictions  The city has been mainly under the control of protesters
for the past month. The government has restricted media access
and banned most foreign journalists since the onset of the
revolt.  “After failing the people of Hama nearly 30 years ago, the
international community must take action to give Syria’s
citizens -- and the broader Arab public -- reason to believe in
the possibility of justice,” Habib Nassar, a director at the
International Center for Transitional Justice, said by e-mail.  The U.S. backs the proposed  Security Council  resolution,
said  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the UN. “We want to
understand why others wouldn’t do the same, particularly in
light of what has transpired over the last few days,” she said.  China,  Russia ,  Brazil ,  South Africa  and  India  blocked
adoption of a resolution condemning Assad’s violence that
circulated in May.  Russia’s UN ambassador, Vitaly Churkin, indicated that
agreement on the revised draft resolution is unlikely to be
quick, saying that the changes were minor.  “It is not a new text,” he said as he arrived at the UN.
“I was hoping for a new text. This is the old text.”  Discussion  India’s UN ambassador, Hardeep Singh Puri, said that while
his government wants to see the Security Council take a position
on the violence in Syria, “just how it will pronounce itself,
in what way and with what degree of emphasis requires some
discussion.”  China ’s Foreign Ministry today reiterated remarks it made
July 14, stating that any Security Council action must “help
alleviate tension” and “maintain peace and stability in the
 Middle East .” One of the pillars of China’s foreign policy is
non-interference in the internal affairs of other nations, a
stance it evokes when vetoing UN resolutions or complaining
about international criticism of its own actions in areas such
as Tibet or Xinjiang.  The European Union approved a fourth set of sanctions
against Syria yesterday. Italy recalled its ambassador to Syria
over the government’s “horrible repression,” the Foreign
Ministry in Rome said today in an e-mailed statement.  U.S. leaders have held back from explicitly saying that
Assad must go. The government is considering additional oil and
gas sanctions on top of the restrictions imposed on senior
Syrian officials in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the United Nations at   fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  