-- 
Swiss Franc Climbs Most Since 1975 on Growth Growth Concern; Dollar Gains

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-02T21:28:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/euro-depreciates-for-a-second-day-against-the-dollar-trading-at-1-4209.html
The Swiss franc gained the most in
more than 36 years against a basket of nine developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg on concern the U.S. economic
recovery is in jeopardy and  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  The Mexican peso and Canadian dollar weakened against the
greenback on speculation the measure President  Barack Obama 
signed today raising the U.S. debt limit and cutting spending
will slow growth in North America’s largest economy. The Swiss
currency set records versus the dollar, euro and pound as
investors sought a refuge. The Australian dollar tumbled after
the central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged.  “A lot of this was a side show and now that it’s finished,
the act playing on the main stage is the threat of a global
slowdown that is in place,”  David Watt , senior currency
strategist at Royal Bank of  Canada ’s RBC Capital unit in
Toronto, said of the U.S. debt-ceiling debate. “You have a
classic risk-off stature for the performance table today, but
the Swiss franc, that’s the only one people are buying.”  The franc gained 3.4 percent, the biggest gain on a closing
basis since January 1975, according to the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The gauge tracks the
currency against counterparts including the yen, pound, euro and
U.S., Canadian, Australian and New Zealand dollars.  The Swiss currency climbed to 1.0823 per euro at 5 p.m. in
New York, up 3 percent. It advanced 2.8 percent to 76.22
centimes per dollar. Against sterling, it reached 1.2423.  The euro declined 0.3 percent to $1.4203 after depreciating
to as low as $1.4151. It weakened 0.4 percent to 109.58 yen.
 Japan ’s currency gained 0.1 percent to 77.15 per dollar, from
77.21 yesterday.  Stocks Slide  Stocks slid, pushing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down
2.6 percent and erasing its 2011 gain.  The 17-nation currency fell after the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said producer-price inflation
slowed to 5.9 percent from 6.2 percent in May. Losses by Italian
10-year bonds pushed yields up to a euro-era record versus
benchmark German bunds. Spanish bonds also slumped before sales
this week of 2014 and 2015 securities.  European leaders agreed last month on a second bailout for
Greece in a bid to restore investor confidence and stop the
sovereign-debt crisis from spreading.  ‘Focused on  Greece ’  “In their July meetings, Europeans were so focused on
Greece they didn’t increase the size of rescue fund to backstop
potential problems with Italy and Spain,” said  Greg Anderson , a
senior currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “This
morning’s news is new highs in Spanish and Italian spreads, and
that shifts focus back to Europe.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, rose 0.3 percent
to 74.487.  The bill signed by Obama raises the nation’s borrowing cap
until 2013 and threatens automatic spending cuts to enforce $2.4
trillion in spending reductions over the next 10 years. The
deadline to raise the limit was today. Approval fueled concern
budget cuts will weigh on growth in the world’s biggest economy.  The measure will defer decisions on the nation’s finances
to a bipartisan panel and may only modestly reduce deficits
while slowing economic growth.  Standard & Poor’s  said July 14 it
may cut the U.S. AAA rating if an agreement to lift the debt
ceiling doesn’t include “credible” deficit cuts.  ‘No Alternative’  John Taylor , founder of the world’s largest currency-hedge
fund, said the dollar will remain the global reserve currency
even if the U.S. loses the top  credit rating .  “There really is absolutely no alternative to the dollar
in the next five to 10 years,” New York-based Taylor, chief
executive officer of FX Concepts LLC, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu.  Canada’s currency fell 0.5 percent to 96.13 cents per  U.S.
dollar , from 95.70. Mexico’s peso retreated 1.1 percent to
11.8458 per dollar, from 11.7199. The U.S. is the largest market
for both nations’ exports.  The Swiss currency extended gains versus the greenback
after U.S. consumer purchases fell 0.2 percent following a 0.1
percent rise in May, Commerce Department data showed today. The
median estimate had been for a 0.1 percent increase.  The franc also advanced as Swiss retail sales increased and
manufacturing unexpectedly accelerated, suggesting the nation is
not suffering from its record strength.  Biggest Loser  Australia ’s dollar was the biggest loser against the
dollar, tumbling to as low as $1.0779, the weakest level since
July 21.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  held
the overnight cash-rate target at 4.75 percent for a record
eighth straight meeting. He cited “the acute sense of
uncertainty” in financial markets.  The yen reached 76.30 yen per dollar yesterday, the
strongest level since March. Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
said the nation’s currency is overvalued and he’s watching
markets closely.  Officials are concerned the yen’s strength will hurt
domestic companies and undermine the nation’s recovery from the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami, the Nikkei newspaper reported,
without saying where it got the information. Noda declined to
comment today on possible currency intervention when speaking to
reporters in  Tokyo .  Japan last intervened on March 18, joining Group of Seven
counterparts in selling the yen a day after it jumped to a
record against the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  