-- 
European Market Turmoil Makes Volatility Traders First Among Hedge Funds

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-08-02T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/european-market-turmoil-makes-volatility-traders-first-among-hedge-funds.html
Hedge funds that ignore the direction
markets move in to make their money have been almost the only
ones to profit in  Europe  this year as their competitors racked
up losses on commodities, banks and Europe’s debt crisis.  Hedge funds that use options to bet on fluctuations in the
price of securities, known as volatility funds, climbed 5.1
percent in 2011 through June, according to the Newedge Group
SA’s Volatility Trading Index. Every other strategy tracked by
the Paris-based brokerage -- including macro funds that wager on
broad economic trends and firms that invest in oil and metals --
lost money in the first six months of the year.  “The system is confused, and that’s evident in the
returns,” said Michael Corcelli, managing member of Alexander
Alternative Capital LLC, a Miami-based hedge fund that invests
in equity-index options and other derivatives. “There are so
many ways to make money playing volatility, and volatility
systems typically perform best when everyone else is confused.”  The niche funds use options on stocks, currencies,
commodities and other assets to try to profit from pricing
discrepancies and the magnitude of price swings. The strategy
has enabled some firms to profit when rivals have been roiled by
shocks such as the stock plunge after Japan’s earthquake, oil’s
drop in May and the risk of a potential Greek default.  Newedge’s index of volatility traders includes 10 funds
that manage a combined $4.6 billion. The total number of
volatility specialists, including funds that aren’t tracked by
the broker, is small compared with the broader $1.8 trillion
hedge-fund industry, said James Skeggs, the London-based head of
Research in Europe for Newedge.  ‘Complex in Nature’  “Volatility strategies are fairly complex in nature, and
there are few people who have the necessary experience to run
and risk manage these portfolios,” Skeggs said.  John Paulson , founder of the $37 billion Paulson & Co.
fund, told investors last month that difficulty predicting how
European leaders would respond to the region’s financial woes
and the debate over extending the U.S. debt ceiling contributed
to the 18 percent loss in his biggest pool this year, according
to two people familiar with the matter who declined to be
identified because the returns aren’t public.  Billionaire trader  George Soros  said at an April conference
that he finds the “current situation much more baffling” than
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. declared bankruptcy in 2008.  Volatility traders say they aren’t baffled by their
performance this year.  ‘Fantastic’ Performance  “We didn’t have an exceptional first half of the year, but
in the current environment, it was fantastic,” said Michel Dominice, co-manager of Dominice & Co.’s $410 million Cassiopeia
Fund, a volatility fund based in Geneva,  Switzerland  that gained
about 10 percent through June.  Volatility funds gained attention during the 2008 financial
crisis when the firms posted an average gain of 3.2 percent, as
the broader hedge funds industry posted its worst-ever annual
loss of 19 percent. The specialist funds fell 2 percent in both
2009 and 2010 as market gyrations declined. Hedge funds were up
20 percent in 2009 and 10 percent last year, according to
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Dominice’s Cassiopeia Fund has made money every year since
it opened in 2004, posting a cumulative gain of about 147
percent. The  fund manager  doesn’t expect trends in financial
markets to get any clearer in August or September. Volatility
may surge in October, as investors seek to exit money-losing
trades before the end of the year and Europe’s sovereign debt
woes re-emerge, he said.  ‘Will Get Worse’  “Things will get worse in Europe as the problems
potentially spread to  Italy , and German taxpayers start to
object to paying for the bills of Southern Europe,” he said.  His fund bets on discrepancies between the values of
volatility indexes and futures on those indexes to try to take
advantage of a view that markets have misjudged stock prices. As
a hedge against losses, Cassiopeia then makes a bet that the
stock market will either rise or fall.  Other volatility specialists that have profited this year
include Paul Britton’s Capstone Investment Advisors LLC, which
manages about $1.2 billion. The firm’s hedge fund gained 4
percent in July, bringing returns for 2011 to more than 10
percent, according to an investor who declined to be identified
because the returns aren’t publicly disclosed. Jeremy Heckerling, Capstone’s general counsel, declined to comment.  VIX Index  Volatility in itself hasn’t been why the funds have
profited: The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index is known, gauges investor expectations for
price swings in the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index and the cost
of using options to protect against stock declines. It averaged
18.04 in the six-month period ending in June, peaking at 29.40
on March 17 after  Japan ’s earthquake and closing at a low of
14.62 on April 28.  The VIX has averaged 20.34 over its 21-year history. The
index reached a record intraday high of 89.53 in October 2008
after Lehman failed and the credit crisis triggered a selloff
for stocks.  With volatility muted, firms have had few opportunities to
make directional bets that price swings will either increase or
decrease in magnitude, said Julia Kung, a Paris-based investment
specialist at  Amundi Asset Management .  “For there to be another shock in volatility would require
something to happen that is unknown today,” she said. “The
risk of a Greek default is something that is known in the
market.”  Volatility of Volatility  The volatility of volatility itself has helped the funds.
The 30-day implied volatility for VIX options surged 84 percent
last week to a 14-month high of 128.52. That’s in the 98th
percentile for all readings since VIX options began trading five
years ago.  Hedge funds that make directional bets on stocks and
commodities are creating volatility by changing their positions
more frequently amid increasing uncertainty about the global
economic recovery, said Stephen Yashar, chief investment officer
of New York-based Cosyne Capital Management LP.  “The increase in the volatility of volatility is giving us
opportunities to create new positions and unwind old ones and
that’s great for traders,” said Yashar, whose hedge fund makes
relative-value bets on stock volatility and has gained 11
percent this year.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  