-- 
European Stocks Slide to 11-Month Low Amid U.S. Growth Concern

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-08-02T16:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/european-stock-index-futures-decline-amid-concern-u-s-growth-is-slowing.html
European stocks tumbled to the lowest
level in 11 months amid concern that a slowdown in the world’s
largest economy may derail global growth.  Auto-industry shares led the selloff as  Fiat SpA (F)  and PSA
Peugeot Citroen lost more than 4 percent. Pandora A/S tumbled 65
percent as the Danish jewelry maker posted earnings that missed
estimates.  Metro AG (MEO)  slid 7.5 percent as  Germany ’s biggest
retailer said profit dropped.  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , the second-
largest producer of solar-grade silicon, plunged 10 percent.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index retreated 1.9 percent to 256.98
at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , the lowest level since Aug.
31. European stocks yesterday were the first major region to
enter a so-called correction, with the Stoxx 600 dropping 10
percent from this year’s highest level, as falling Spanish and
Italian bonds showed the sovereign-debt crisis is spreading.  “There’s a vicious circle between markets and the economy,
with poor economic data refueling negative sentiment,”  Philippe Gijsels , head of research at  BNP Paribas (BNP)  Fortis Global Markets,
said in a phone interview from Brussels. “There are enough
elements on the table to create a nervous environment.”  National benchmark indexes fell in all 18 western European
markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 1 percent, Germany’s DAX
declined 2.3 percent and  France ’s CAC slid 1.8 percent. The
 Swiss Market Index (SMI)  tumbled 4.1 percent after reopening following
yesterday’s holiday as  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  sank
more than 7 percent.  U.S. Economy  Stocks extended losses as U.S. Commerce Department figures
showed consumer purchases fell 0.2 percent in June, the first
drop in almost two years. The median estimate of 77 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.1 percent increase.  Italian and Spanish 10-year bonds dropped today, pushing
yields up to euro-era records versus benchmark German bunds, on
concern that slowing growth will hamper efforts to tame the
nations’ debt loads.  Wrangling between Republicans and Democrats over increasing
the U.S.’s debt ceiling has also fueled concern in recent weeks.
Congressional leaders voiced confidence that the Senate will
approve today a debt-limit compromise after the House voted 269-
161 to approve the measure, which boosts the national debt limit
enough to fund the government until 2013.  Even so, both  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors
Service are weighing whether to cut the nation’s credit rating.
S&P said last month that the political impasse has boosted to 50
percent the chance that it will downgrade the U.S. from AAA
within three months.  ‘Deteriorating Economic Picture’  “The focus has now shifted to the global economy with
manufacturing deteriorating across most global economies,” said
 Chris Weston , a trader at IG Markets in  Melbourne . “We are
clearly seeing an investment strike in global equity markets and
a deteriorating economic picture just detracts the investment
case from stocks as an attractive asset class.”  More European companies have missed analysts’ estimates
since July 11 than in any earnings season in at least five
years. About 51 percent of companies in the Stoxx 600 have
posted earnings that fell short of projections, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, while 78 percent of S&P 500
companies that reported earnings have exceeded forecasts.  Fiat led a selloff in carmakers, tumbling 8.4 percent to
6.09 euros, the biggest drop in more than two years. Peugeot,
Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, fell 4.8 percent to 24.28
euros and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the region’s largest automaker,
declined 4.1 percent to 132.45 euros.  Insurance, Construction  Gauges of insurers, construction companies and basic-
resource stocks also tumbled, falling more than 2.5 percent.  Pandora tumbled 65 percent to 51 kroner, its biggest drop
on record, after cutting its full-year forecast and reporting
that Chief Executive Officer Mikkel Vendelin Olesen quit. The
company also posted second-quarter earnings before interest and
taxes of 440 million kroner ($84 million), compared with an
average analyst estimate of 611 million kroner in a Bloomberg
survey. Pandora’s sales in July plunged about 30 percent.  Metro dropped 7.5 percent to 34.97 euros, the largest
decline in 2 1/2 years, as the retailer’s Media-Saturn consumer-
electronics unit posted the first loss in at least 20 years. The
company said second-quarter net income fell to 40 million euros
($57 million), missing a 87.8 million-euro analyst estimate.
Sales were little changed at 15.7 billion euros. Analysts had
estimated revenue of 15.8 billion euros.  Wacker Drops  Wacker Chemie  retreated 10 percent to 116.45 euros after
saying profit rose to 142.7 million in the second quarter,
missing the 152 million-euro average estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of seven analysts.  Northumbrian Water Group Plc (NWG)  advanced 4.5 percent to 469.5
pence. Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd., the company
controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-Shing , agreed to buy
the U.K. utility for about 2.4 billion pounds ($3.9 billion).  Rotork Plc (ROR)  gained 8.1 percent to 1,695 pence as the company
predicted that full-year sales will be “materially ahead” of
previous forecasts because of strong order intake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  