-- 
Dollar Index Trades 0.3% From Two-Week High on Haven Demand; Aussie Falls

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-08-03T06:09:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/euro-yen-fall-before-central-bank-meetings-dollar-rallies-against-franc.html
The Dollar Index was 0.3 percent from
a two-week high as Asian stocks slumped amid concern the global
economy is slowing, boosting demand for haven currencies.  New Zealand’s dollar slid for a third day against the
greenback after Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. said the price
of whole-milk powder was near an eight-month low. The yen
declined against the euro and dollar on speculation the Bank of
 Japan  will add to monetary easing to help halt the currency’s
advance. The Swiss franc dropped against most peers as a
technical indicator signaled its recent gains were too rapid.  “Before, people sold the dollar because of concern about
an economic slowdown in the U.S., but now that concern isn’t
limited to the U.S.,” said Tsunemasa Tsukada, chief manager for
currencies and financial products in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ
Trust & Banking Corp., a unit of Japan’s largest financial
group. Demand for refuge currencies is on the upswing as traders
see “a higher chance of a correction in risk assets,” he said.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, was at 74.493 as
of 6:13 a.m. in  London  from 74.533 in  New York  yesterday, when
it reached 74.734, the most since July 21.  The dollar was little changed at $1.4204 per euro and rose
0.1 percent to 77.26 yen. The yen fell to 109.74 per euro from
109.58. The Swiss franc retreated 0.6 percent to 76.67 centimes
per dollar.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional shares tumbled 2.2
percent. Ten-year Treasury yields sank to 2.58 percent today,
the lowest since November.  German figures due tomorrow may say factory orders in
 Europe ’s largest economy slid 0.5 percent in June from May, the
first decrease in three months, according to economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  ‘Stall Speed’  Companies in the U.S. added 100,000 workers in July after a
157,000 increase in June, a Bloomberg survey of economists
showed before a report from ADP Employer Services today.  The  U.S. economy  is “very close to stall speed” and the
 Federal Reserve  may need to consider signaling a longer
commitment to low  interest rates , according to Peter Fisher,
head of fixed income at BlackRock Inc. which is based in New
York and oversees $3.66 trillion.  The New Zealand dollar, known as the kiwi, weakened against
14 of its 16 major counterparts, as milk prices near an eight-
month low dimmed the outlook for the nation’s exports.  Milk powder for October delivery was $3,477 a metric ton
from $3,474 two weeks earlier, which was the lowest since Nov.
16, according to Auckland-based Fonterra’s GlobalDairyTrade
auction. It has slumped 30 percent since reaching a record
$4,958 a ton in March.  Monitor ‘Closely’  “Dairy means to  New Zealand  what mining means to
 Australia ,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  in Sydney. “Those dairy prices
have been coming off in the last few months. It is having a
modest impact on the kiwi.”  The New Zealand dollar fell to 86.24 U.S. cents from 86.65
cents yesterday. It dropped to 66.60 yen from 66.85 yen.  The yen has advanced 5 percent for the past three months,
the third-best performer after the Swiss franc and kiwi,
according to the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes.  Prime Minister Naoto Kan said today he’s concerned about
recent movements in the foreign-exchange market. Bank of Japan
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said the central bank will closely
monitor the effect of the yen’s appreciation over the economy.  Five of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said the
BOJ will increase monetary stimulus at its Aug. 4-5 meeting,
while two said that may happen and seven expect no change.  Monetary Easing  The yen climbed to 76.30 against the dollar on Aug. 1, the
strongest level since a postwar record of 76.25 on March 17, the
day before Group of Seven countries jointly intervened in
currency markets to counter gains in Japan’s currency.  “Perhaps the  Bank of Japan  will take some kind of
easing,” said  Daisaku Ueno , president of Gaitame.com Research
Institute Ltd. in Tokyo, a unit of Japan’s largest online
currency broker. “If monetary easing comes with intervention,
it will be effective to some extent” in curbing the yen’s
appreciation.  The Swiss currency retreated after touching a record 76.10
centimes per dollar earlier today. The franc’s 14-day stochastic
oscillator was 91 today, above the 80 threshold that indicates
to some traders an asset’s price has risen too quickly and is
set to reverse course.  The franc “has retraced some of its spectacular gains on
profit taking,”  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist in  Hong
Kong  at Royal Bank of Canada, wrote in a report today.  U.S. Rating  Demand for the dollar was limited after Moody’s Investors
Service said the U.S. credit rating may be cut for the first
time. The U.S., rated Aaa since 1917, was placed on a negative
outlook, Moody’s said yesterday as it confirmed the rating after
President Barack Obama signed into law a plan to lift the
nation’s borrowing limit and cut spending.  Fitch Ratings  said the U.S. is under review as the nation’s
debt burden increases at a pace that isn’t consistent with an
AAA sovereign credit rating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 