-- 
Ex-UBS Banker Martin Lack Is Indicted in Tax Conspiracy Case

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-08-02T19:11:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/ex-ubs-banker-lack-charged-with-conspiring-to-help-americans-evade-taxes.html
A former  UBS AG (UBSN)  banker was indicted
on a charge of conspiring to help wealthy Americans evade taxes
by hiding accounts in a smaller Swiss regional bank.  Martin Lack, a Swiss resident and independent  investment
adviser , helped U.S. clients hide assets from the  Internal
Revenue Service  through accounts at UBS and the so-called
cantonal bank, according to an indictment in federal court in
 Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida . That bank, not named in the
indictment, is  Basler Kantonalbank , according to a person
familiar with the matter.  The indictment cites nine U.S. customers that Lack
assisted. He helped them withdraw cash from undeclared accounts
and discouraged them from joining an IRS amnesty program,
according to the indictment. UBS, the largest Swiss bank,
avoided prosecution in 2009 by paying $780 million and admitting
it helped Americans evade taxes.  “Lack would and did solicit U.S. customers to open
undeclared accounts at UBS and Cantonal Bank because Swiss bank
secrecy would assist U.S. customers to conceal their ownership
of the accounts,” according to the indictment.  Lack is accused of conspiring with Renzo Gadola, a UBS
banker from 1995 until 2008. Gadola pleaded guilty Dec. 22 in
federal court in Miami, admitting that he encouraged U.S.
clients to move their undeclared UBS accounts to  Basler
Kantonalbank. (BSKP)  He is cooperating with prosecutors.  Lack was the executive director of the UBS North America
International business until 2003, according to the indictment.
That year, he set up Lack & Partner Asset Management AG in
Zurich. Lack didn’t immediately return a call left at the firm
today.  Basler Kantonalbank  Michael Buess, a spokesman for Basler Kantonalbank, a Swiss
regional lender based in Basel, said he couldn’t confirm or deny
any “cooperation between Lack and Basler Kantonalbank.”  Lack traveled to the U.S. to visit customers with
undeclared accounts, giving one a prepaid cell phone to call
him, according to the indictment.  Lack, who shared an office with Gadola, feared he would be
arrested after 2008 if he visited the U.S., according to the
indictment. Both men worked with a Mississippi client who gave
$445,000 in cash to Lack in 2007 to open an account at the
cantonal bank, according to the indictment.  In 2009, Lack told the customer not to join an IRS
voluntary disclosure program that let U.S. taxpayers avoid
prosecution by declaring their offshore accounts, according to
the indictment. Lack offered also offered to provide fake
documents to make the money appear to be the proceeds of a loan,
according to the indictment.  ‘Practically Zero Percent’  Gadola met the customer on Nov. 6 in a Miami hotel and told
him not to declare the account because the likelihood of
detection was “practically zero percent,” according to the
indictment. Authorities, who secretly recorded the meeting,
charged Gadola the next day. His case was made public Dec. 15.  Lack also provided a total of $180,000 in cash to a Texas
customer in three meetings from 2003 to 2007, according to the
indictment.  In avoiding prosecution, UBS agreed in February 2009 to
give the IRS data on 250 accounts and later handed over data on
an additional 4,450 accounts to resolve an IRS lawsuit. That
spurred the voluntary disclosure program, which drew 15,000
taxpayers in 2009 and another 4,000 after that.  Offshore Accounts  Taxpayers who joined the program had to identify their
offshore accounts, bankers and advisers, as well as how they
moved their money. More than 200 of those taxpayers have been
questioned as U.S. prosecutors build new criminal cases.  Since 2009, more than two dozen UBS clients have been
charged, as well as several bankers and advisers. Prosecutors
also have indicted seven European bankers of Credit Suisse Group
AG on charges of conspiring to help clients in the U.S. evade
taxes.  The bank said July 15 that the  Justice Department  notified
it that it was a target of a criminal probe over former cross-
border private-banking services to U.S. customers.  The Lack case is U.S. v. Lack, 11-cr-60184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale). The
Gadola case is U.S. v. Gadola, 10-cr-20878, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 