-- 
MF Global Plans Bond Sale With Coupon Tied to Corzine’s Role

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-08-02T16:39:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/mf-global-plans-bond-with-coupon-set-to-rise-if-corzine-joins-government.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF)  plans to sell
bonds with an  interest rate  that will rise if Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Jon Corzine  receives a federal appointment
from the U.S. president.  The futures broker is selling $300 million of five-year
senior unsecured notes to repay a bank line and for general
corporate purposes, according to a person familiar with the
offering, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. The coupon will increase 1 percentage point if Corzine is
appointed and confirmed by the  U.S. Senate  before July 2013, MF
Global said today in a regulatory filing.  Corzine, the former governor of  New Jersey , helped run
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. from 1994 to 1999 and served in the
Senate from 2001 to 2006. Since joining MF Global last year,
he’s taken more risk with the firm’s money to remake the broker
into a mid-size investment bank by 2015 and sought to change its
 capital structure  to reduce borrowing costs.  “He’s such a big part of the turnaround story you’d
probably be a bit worried about him leaving,”  Christopher Allen , an exchange and brokerage analyst with Evercore Partners
Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.  Allen said Corzine has been the subject of speculation for
Washington postings, including Treasury Secretary or an economic
adviser to the White House.  Retention Bonus  His $1.5 million retention bonus would be paid on a pro
rata basis if he leaves to work for any “U.S. federal, state or
local government” before March 31, 2014, according to Corzine’s
 employment contract .  Diana DeSocio, an MF Global spokeswoman, said she was
unable to comment because the company is in the offering period
for the bond.  Corzine has presided over a 13 percent rise in MF Global’s
share price in the past year through yesterday. It was named a
primary dealer by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and has
hired more than 80 salespeople and traders this year.  Even with the additions, Corzine has cut costs by reducing
the firm’s workforce by 5.5 percent and delivered unadjusted
profit last quarter. Prior to that period, the firm was
unprofitable on a generally accepted accounting principles basis
in eight of the previous nine quarters.  MF Global fell 15 cents, or 2 percent, to $7.23 at 12:36
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Net revenue per employee has risen to $110,000 for the
three months ended in June, compared with $93,000 a year
earlier, the company said last week. At the same time, Corzine
brought the ratio of employee compensation to net revenue down
to 54 percent from 63 percent in the June quarter of 2009.  Net Income  Net income climbed to $7.67 million, or 5 cents a share, in
the period ended June 30, compared with $783,000, or 1 cent, a
year ago, the New York-based company said July 28.  Last week, the New York-based firm said it planned to buy
back $109.1 million of 9 percent outstanding convertible notes
with the proceeds from a sale of $325 million of 3.375 percent
securities maturing in August 2018.  Jefferies & Co. is managing the bond sale, according to the
filing, which didn’t specify the size of the offering.  Moody’s Investors Service ranks MF Global Baa2, the second-
lowest investment grade, while  Standard & Poor’s  rates it BBB-,
one step lower. The interest rate will also rise if Moody’s or
S&P cuts the company’s debt grade to junk, the regulatory filing
shows.  The interest rate increase under the so-called “key man”
provision will reverse if MF Global is upgraded to at least A3
by Moody’s or an equivalent A- by S&P after a departure by
Corzine, according to the regulatory filing.  “There aren’t that many former senators that are running
public companies that are in the middle of a turnaround,” Niamh Alexander, a New York-based analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods
Inc., said in a telephone interview. “This is probably a
concern that a few key investors had and this is how they
addressed it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 