-- 
Fairy Empress Seeks Shadow in Strauss’s Weird Homage to Mothers

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-08-02T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/fairy-empress-seeks-shadow-in-strauss-s-odd-homage-to-motherhood-review.html
A fairy empress needs to steal a
human shadow to keep her emperor from turning to stone in
Richard Strauss’s bizarrely beautiful opera “Die Frau Ohne
Schatten” (The Woman Without a Shadow.)  The shadow stands for fertility. The message of the opera
is that women who can’t or don’t want to bear children are
unnatural -- even inhuman -- and that motherhood and wifehood
are the only paths to female fulfillment. That’s a tough sell in
our age of equality and over-population.  Even in 1919 when the opera premiered, it must have been a
stretch -- after all, World War I was hardly the heyday of the
nuclear family, with millions of widows struggling alone to feed
their children.  At the  Salzburg Festival , German director Christof Loy
attempts to circumvent that weirdness by presenting a tale
within the tale. His staging has the singers of the Vienna State
Opera recording the work in winter 1955, huddled in woolly coats
over music stands, arriving and leaving clutching their scores.
The concert-hall set remains unchanged through three acts.  The result is almost a concert performance in 1950s period
costume, though there are times when the opera takes over and
the characters interact. Barak the dyer and his belligerent,
dissatisfied wife take swipes at each other; the emperor
(Stephen Gould) throws a chair across the stage in a jealous fit
when he discovers his fairy wife has consorted with humans.  These cameos of emotion -- combined with the opulence and
beauty of Strauss’s rich score -- draw the audience in for brief
interludes. Yet the whole staging feels too static, too
intellectual, too distanced from the text.  War Guilt  Loy’s layered solution is neatly evasive and professionally
executed, yet he is avoiding grappling with Hugo von
Hofmannsthal’s odd, outdated libretto. His own detailed story-
within-the-story (some characters are supposed to carry World
War II guilt) only emerges in full in his alternative plot
summary printed in the program.  For an opera with such an anti-feminist message, it seems
contradictory that the female characters should determine all
the action. Anne Schwanewilms looks pure and sounds otherworldly
as the compassionate fairy empress who risks her own happiness
and rejects the wife’s shadow for fear of hurting gruff, kind
Barak. Michaela Schuster was slyly manipulative as the evil
nurse and Evelyn Herlitzius gave a powerful rendition of Barak’s
wife.  Still, the loudest cheers were for Christian Thielemann and
the  Vienna Philharmonic  for their performance, with its light as
well as shadow, both rousing and reflective. This is where the
magic of this strange fairytale surfaced.  Rating: **.  “Die Frau Ohne Schatten” will be performed in Salzburg’s
Grosses Festspielhaus on Aug. 4, 11, 14, 17 and 21.  Information:  http://www.salzburgerfestspiele.at/en   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Hickley at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 