-- 
Fed Policy Makers May Consider Additional Stimulus as U.S. Economy Slows

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s ,   J o s h   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-08-02T13:28:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/fed-policy-makers-may-consider-additional-stimulus-as-u-s-economy-slows.html
Federal Reserve policy makers may
start weighing additional steps to prop up the recovery after
growth fell below 1 percent in the first half of this year and
economists began cutting second-half growth forecasts.  “At a minimum, the FOMC will have a serious debate about
the policy options -- what they should do, and what they expect
to get from it,” said Roberto Perli, a former associate
director in the Fed’s Division of Monetary Affairs, referring to
the  Federal Open Market Committee . “Growth in the first half
was dangerously close to zero,” said Perli, director of policy
research at International Strategy & Investment Group.  The FOMC will meet Aug. 9 in Washington after the
government marked down its measure of economic growth to annual
rates of 0.4 percent in the first quarter and 1.3 percent in the
second, casting doubt on the Fed’s June outlook of 2.7 percent
to 2.9 percent growth for this year. A gauge of U.S.
manufacturing, a main engine for the expansion, slumped last
month to the lowest level in two years.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in congressional testimony in
July that the Fed may take new action if the economy stalls,
including beginning a third round of bond purchases. The central
bank could also cut the interest rate it pays banks on excess
reserves and pledge to hold its assets at a record high and
 interest rates  at record lows for a longer period, he said.  Any effort by Bernanke to expand the Fed’s $2.87 trillion
balance sheet would probably meet resistance from district Fed
presidents, including Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser , who have
said bond purchases and low borrowing costs have already pushed
up long-term inflation risks too high.  Inflation Rose  During the first half of 2011, so-called  core inflation 
rose while growth of gross domestic product slowed, even as the
Fed carried out a $600 billion program in asset purchases known
as quantitative easing.  The Fed’s preferred inflation benchmark, the personal
consumption expenditures price index minus food and energy, rose
at a 2.2 percent annual rate for the three months ending May, up
from 0.7 percent pace for the three months ending in January.  “Given current inflation trends, additional monetary
stimulus at this juncture seems likely to raise inflation to
undesirably high levels and do little to spur real growth,”
Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said in a speech last
week. He is a voting member of the FOMC next year.  Further Cuts  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in
New York, cut his projections for growth by a full percentage
point for the current quarter and subsequent five. He expects
GDP to expand 2 percent from July through September. Economists
may further reduce their estimates if the Aug. 5 employment
report for July shows another month of job increases below
what’s needed to lower the  unemployment rate .  A report from the Commerce Department today showed that
 consumer spending  unexpectedly fell in June for the first time
in almost two years as a slump in hiring caused households to
retrench. Purchases decreased 0.2 percent, after a 0.1 percent
gain the prior month. The median estimate of 77 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.1 percent increase.  Treasuries rose, pushing the 10-year yield down four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.70 percent as of 9:23
a.m. in  New York . The yield earlier touched 2.69 percent, the
lowest since November.  Research by James D. Hamilton, a University of  California ,
San Diego economist, explored the idea that measures of economic
activity operate differently during periods of economic growth
and recession, and that an economy may hit a tipping point and
move quickly from one state to another.  Warning Sign  Jeremy Nalewaik, a Fed board staff economist, published a
paper in April based partly on Hamilton’s research that
identified 1 percent growth or less “as a moderately useful
warning sign that the economy is in danger of falling into a
recession.”  An expansion at that rate may hit a “stall speed,” or a
level of growth low enough that the economy loses its momentum
and begins to shrink, he said.  Nine of the 11 recessions since 1945 were preceded by at
least one quarter of GDP growth below 1 percent in the year
before the recession began, according to Nalewaik’s research.  Still, quarters of such low growth don’t always herald
recession. Over the time period of Nalewaik’s study, 25 quarters
had growth below 1 percent, with 12 of the quarters preceding a
shrinking economy.  ISM Index  The  Institute for Supply Management  said yesterday that its
factory index declined last month to 50.9, the lowest since July
2009, from 55.3 in June. Figures less than 50 signal a
contraction.  “The Fed will be thinking carefully about all its
options,” former Fed governor  Randall Kroszner  said in an
interview yesterday.  “Certainly people will be changing their assessment to be
more negative about the economic outlook and that will lead some
people to suggest more needs to be done,” said Kroszner, now an
economist at the University of Chicago’s Booth School of
Business.  Bernanke testified last month that the central bank
couldn’t be sure of the impact from additional easing.  “Our experience with these policies remains relatively
limited, and employing them would entail potential risks and
costs,” he said. “Prudent planning requires that we evaluate
the efficacy of these and other potential alternatives for
deploying additional stimulus if conditions warrant.”  Stimulus Backfired  The Fed’s most recent stimulus backfired, said Conrad DeQuadros, senior economist at RDQ Economics LLC in New York.  “Not only did quantitative easing two not help the
economy, it actually hurt it by pushing up prices and eating
into real activity,” he said. “Some people on the FOMC might
be sympathetic to that view.”  Those policy makers may also be less influential than a
core group on the committee that believes high unemployment and
low rates of resource use will push prices lower, DeQuadros
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  