-- 
Odds of U.S. Recession Seen Rising by Academic Panel Majority

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-08-03T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/feldstein-recession-panel-members-see-rising-odds-of-a-renewed-u-s-slump.html
The two-year-old U.S. recovery’s
staying power may be diminishing as consumers and the government
pare spending, say five of the nine economists on the academic
panel that dates recessions.  “This economy is really balanced on the edge,” Harvard
University economics professor  Martin Feldstein , a member of the
Business Cycle Dating Committee of the  National Bureau of
Economic Research , said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “There’s
now a 50 percent chance that we could slide into a new
recession. Nothing has given us much growth.”  A greater-than-expected slowdown in the first half of 2011
poses risks for the world’s largest economy, said economist
 Robert Hall  of  Stanford University , the panel’s chairman. Gross
domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate from April
through June after a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter that
was less than earlier estimated, Commerce Department figures
showed July 29.  “The slower the growth rate, the more likely it is that an
adverse shock would cause a recession,” Hall said in an
interview.  While the committee doesn’t forecast the odds of a
recession, individual members can make their own predictions,
Hall said. The panel took more than a year to determine that the
deepest contraction since the 1930s ended in June 2009, a
finding made in September 2010.  Depth of Recession  Gross domestic product shrank 5.1 percent from the fourth
quarter of 2007 to the second quarter of 2009, compared with the
previously reported 4.1 percent drop, the Commerce Department
said last week. The second-worst contraction in the post-World
War II era was a 3.7 percent decline in 1957-58.  “The risks have gone up for another recession compared to
where we were six months ago,”  Christina Romer , a former
chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers and a
professor at the  University of California , Berkeley, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview Aug. 1 on “Street Smart” with
 Carol Massar  and  Matt Miller . She predicted “anemic, but
positive, growth.”  Committee members cited weakness in housing, employment,
and business confidence and efforts to reduce debt by consumers
and government as hurdles to growth. Four academics on the panel
either declined give odds of a recession or didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Consumer spending  unexpectedly dropped in June for the
first time in almost two years, while the savings rate rose,
Commerce Department figures showed yesterday in  Washington .  Squeezing Spending  “Consumption is down because debt repayments are squeezing
spending even this long after the crisis,” Hall said. “It will
be a painful process until debt-dependent consumers are back on
their feet.”  Manufacturers are restraining production in response to
weak consumer demand. Manufacturing in the U.S. almost stalled
in July, a report from the  Institute for Supply Management 
showed Aug. 1.  The  unemployment rate  probably stayed at 9.2 percent in
July as payrolls climbed by 85,000 workers, according to a
Bloomberg News survey ahead of the Labor Department’s Aug. 5
report. Through June, the economy recovered about 1.77 million
of the 8.75 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month
recession that began in December 2007.  “We certainly are in a more vulnerable situation now,”
and a new shock could spark a downturn, similar to the
contraction after  oil prices  jumped with  Iraq ’s invasion of
 Kuwait  in 1990, said James Stock, a Harvard economist on the
NBER panel. “Looking around the world, it is sure possible to
think of shocks of the Kuwait magnitude that could tip us over
the edge.”  Debt-Limit Debate  Business confidence has been shaken by the months-long
debate over raising the debt ceiling, Stock said.  President Barack Obama yesterday signed a debt-limit
compromise that prevents a U.S. default on the day the Treasury
Department had warned the nation’s borrowing authority would
expire. The measure raises the nation’s debt ceiling until 2013
and threatens automatic spending cuts to enforce $2.4 trillion
in spending reductions over the next 10 years.  “The U.S. debt ceiling debate has, I think, really eroded
confidence among consumers and businesses in addition to
creating uncertainty,” Stock said in an interview. “The
resolution of uncertainty with the compromise doesn’t restore
with it the view of legislative competence in economic
management.”  Cutbacks in  government spending  will be a drag on growth
next year, said Jeffrey Frankel, another Harvard professor on
the NBER committee. While recession risks have risen, they are
“not necessarily enough to push the probability over one
half.”  Stimulus Withdrawn  “The government is a source of contraction this year,”
Frankel said. “Fiscal stimulus is being withdrawn at the
federal, state, and local levels.”  Committee member Robert Gordon of Northwestern University,
who didn’t estimate odds on a recession, and Feldstein agreed
that the “hangover” from the housing bubble continues to
plague the economy.  “There is a vast oversupply of housing that has crushed
any chance of recovery of residential construction, which for
the last three years has been operating at about 25 percent of
the housing starts registered in 2005-06,” Gordon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  