-- 
Feldstein Sees 50% Odds U.S. Falls Into Recession: Tom Keene

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-08-02T17:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/feldstein-sees-50-chance-of-u-s-sliding-back-into-a-recession-tom-keene.html
Harvard University economics
professor  Martin Feldstein  said the U.S. recovery that began two
years ago has been losing steam and there are even odds the
economy will slip into a recession.  “This economy is really balanced on the edge,” Feldstein
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television “Surveillance
Midday” with Tom Keene. “I think there’s now a 50 percent
chance that we could slide into a new recession.”  Feldstein cited continued weakness in housing and
employment. U.S. consumer spending unexpectedly dropped in June
for the first time in almost two years, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington .  “Nothing has given us much growth,” Feldstein said. “The
economy has been flat to down since the beginning of the year.”  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate
from April through June after a 0.4 percent gain in the prior
quarter that was less than earlier estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed July 29. Household spending grew 0.1
percent, the weakest performance since the second quarter of
2009, at the end of the last recession.  Unemployment likely stayed at 9.2 percent as payrolls
climbed by 85,000 workers in July, according to a Bloomberg News
survey ahead of the Labor Department report Aug. 5. Through
June, the economy had recovered about 1.77 million of the 8.75
million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month recession that
began in December 2007.  Bernanke’s Comments  The  Federal Reserve  “has done everything it can,”
Feldstein said, though Congress and the administration have
failed to address the central problem of weak housing.  “Housing is a major drag on the economy,” he said. “The
plan to deal with it has been a failure” and  house prices  have
continued to fall.  Feldstein’s comments echoed Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
who in testimony to Congress in July said the “economy still
needs a good deal of support.”  “The most recent data attest to the continuing weakness of
the labor market,” Bernanke said July 13.  Feldstein, 71, is a former president of the  National Bureau
of Economic Research  and a member of the NBER committee that
declared the recession ended in June 2009. He formerly served as
chief economic adviser to President  Ronald Reagan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  