-- 
Fortis Healthcare Said to Be in Talks on Buying Stake in Hoan My Medical

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-08-02T03:17:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/fortis-healthcare-said-in-talks-to-invest-in-vietnamese-hospital-operator.html
Fortis Healthcare Ltd. (FORH)  is in talks to
buy a controlling stake in Hoan My Medical Corp., the Vietnamese
hospital operator backed by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Shareholders of privately held Hoan My plan to sell more
than 50 percent of the company in a deal that may value it at
about $100 million, the people said, asking not to be identified
because the information is private.  The acquisition would bolster Fortis’s expansion in Asia,
where the Economist Intelligence Unit forecasts health-care
spending per person will grow 55 percent between 2010 and 2015.
Ho Chi Minh City-based  Hoan My  operates five hospitals and two
clinics in Vietnam and plans to open more hospitals in the
country, according to its website.  Fortis is mulling acquisitions to expand globally, Chairman
Malvinder Singh said in September. Its holding company, Fortis
Global Healthcare Holdings Pte., agreed to buy Hong Kong-based
Quality HealthCare  Asia  Ltd. for HK$1.5 billion ($192.5 million)
in October, after withdrawing from a bidding war for Parkway
Holdings Ltd., Asia’s largest hospital operator, in July 2010.  Deutsche Bank’s DWS Vietnam Fund and  VinaCapital Investment
Management Ltd.  invested $10 million each in October 2009 for a
combined 40 percent stake in Hoan My. The investment would
enable Hoan My, which according to its website was founded in
1997 by Nguyen Huu Tung, to focus on high-income patients,
Nguyen said at that time.  Vishal Bali, chief executive officer of Fortis’ global
healthcare unit, did not respond to two e-mails seeking comment..
Questions e-mailed to Hoan My yesterday went unanswered.
Spokespeople for Deutsche Bank and VinaCapital declined to
comment.  In June,  Vietnam  lowered its goal for economic expansion in
2011 for the second time in a month, to 6 percent, as officials
struggle to tame the fastest inflation in Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  