-- 
Foursquare Says Merchant Services Will Provide Bulk of Revenue

-- B y   E m i l y   C h a n g   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-08-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/foursquare-ceo-says-merchant-services-will-provide-bulk-of-startup-s-sales.html
Foursquare Labs Inc.  plans to get
most of its future sales from software that helps merchants
track the behavior of potential customers, Chief Executive
Officer Dennis Crowley said.  Foursquare, a Web service that lets users share their
whereabouts, already offers free tools to 500,000 businesses.
The New York-based company will eventually begin charging for
additional services that help monitor shoppers, Crowley said
yesterday in a televised interview with “Bloomberg West.”  “It’s going to be the tools that we offer these local
merchants,” Crowley said, when asked where the company would
generate the majority of its revenue in the future. While there
are no immediate plans to charge for new services, “it’s
something that’s on our road map,” he said.  The strategy marks a departure from the approach used by
Facebook Inc. and other social-networking companies, which rely
mostly on advertising to make money. Instead, Foursquare wants
businesses to pay for help analyzing the data generated by its
10 million users. Foursquare already collects some revenue from
partners such as Groupon Inc., which show users discounted
offers on meals and activities that are nearby.  Foursquare also gets some advertising money. It has ad
deals with companies such as PepsiCo Inc.,  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  and
Zagat Survey LLC. Meanwhile, it faces increasing competition
from location-based features offered by  Facebook ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
and other large rivals.  ‘Really Interesting’  Foursquare announced in June that it raised $50 million,
providing money to add engineers and expand internationally. The
company aims to help merchants recognize customer behaviors and
cater offers to them, Crowley said.  “Do we want to hit the users who come in five times a
week? Do we want to hit the users who bring five of their
friends?” he said. “We’re starting to develop more advanced
tools for the merchants, and that’s starting to be really
interesting for us.”  Crowley -- who sold his previous startup, Dodgeball, to
Google in 2005 -- has no plans to sell Foursquare. The service
is approaching profitability, he said.  “I’m hoping that we’re going to be a profitable company
relatively soon,” Crowley said. “That will probably open up a
number of doors for us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emily Chang in  San Francisco  at 
 echang68@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  