-- 
Geithner Says He Hasn’t Decided Whether to Quit as Obama’s Treasury Chief

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-08-02T17:02:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/geithner-says-he-hasn-t-decided-whether-to-leave-obama-team.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he hasn’t decided yet whether to leave the Obama
administration now that Congress has raised the debt limit,
changing his tone from previous comments on his future plans.  “I haven’t made that decision yet,” said Geithner,
speaking in an interview broadcast today on ABC television’s
“Good Morning America” program. “And you know, we’ve got a
lot of challenges, president’s got a lot of challenges, and you
know, I got other pressures on me, too. But I’ll make that
decision at the right moment.” He didn’t specify the “other
pressures.”  Geithner signaled to White House officials that he’s
considering leaving the administration after President  Barack Obama  reaches an agreement with Congress to raise the federal
debt limit, three people familiar with the matter said in June.  Since then, Geithner has said several times he would remain
in office for the “foreseeable future.” On June 30 he also
said his son would return to  New York  to finish high school,
“and I’m going to be commuting for a while.”  The House voted 269-161 yesterday to raise the debt limit,
and the Senate voted 74-26 today for the measure, which raises
the limit until 2013 and threatens automatic spending cuts to
enforce $2.4 trillion in reductions over the next 10 years.  ‘A Little Busy’  “I’ve been a little busy. I haven’t had a ton of time to
think about that,” Geithner told ABC about the possibility of
leaving the administration.  Senator  Mark Warner , a Virginia Democrat, said he hopes
Geithner “stays on for the foreseeable future.” Because of
Republican opposition to Obama administration nominees, “I’m
not sure we’d get to a Treasury secretary confirmation,” he
told  MSNBC .  “If you want to vote against somebody, have at it, vote
against them,” Warner said. “But don’t leave them in this
limbo land.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  