-- 
General Growth Falls Most Since November on Drop in FFO, Plans for Spinoff

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-08-02T20:20:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/general-growth-quarterly-ffo-declines-after-lower-lease-termination-income.html
General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the
No. 2 U.S. shopping-mall owner, fell the most in more than a
year after reporting lower-than-estimated funds from operations
before items and saying that it plans to spin off 30 properties.  Second-quarter “core” FFO fell to $199.6 million, or 20
cents a share, from $206.1 million, or 63 cents, a year earlier,
the Chicago-based real estate investment trust said in a
statement today. Analysts expected 23 cents a share, the average
of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  General Growth, which left  bankruptcy protection  in
November, said late yesterday that it plans a spinoff of the 30
malls to shareholders through a special dividend. They will be
transferred to a new publicly traded REIT, Rouse Properties
Inc., the company said. General Growth spent $11.3 billion to
buy commercial-property developer Rouse Co. in 2004.  “They’re probably malls that don’t have the same kind of
growth prospects,” Craig Guttenplan, an analyst at CreditSights
Inc. in  London , said in a telephone interview, of the malls to
be spun off. “It’s not where GGP wanted to focus its
investment.”  The company’s shares fell $1.45, or 8.7 percent, to $15.32
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It
was the biggest loss since May 7, 2010.  Bankruptcy Filing  General Growth, which owns Water Tower Place in  Chicago  and
Faneuil Hall Marketplace in  Boston , filed for Chapter 11
protection in April 2009 after weighing itself down with debt
from the Rouse purchase that it was unable to refinance because
of the credit crisis and collapse of the commercial mortgage-
backed  securities market .  FFO, a measure of a property company’s ability to generate
cash, was hurt in the second quarter by lower income from lease
terminations, General Growth said. Core FFO excludes items such
as discontinued operations and costs related to debt retirement.  The malls to be spun off have lower occupancy and are in
smaller markets, according to Guttenplan. They may need
“substantial investment,” he said.  “There’s only a couple of properties that were legacy
Rouse properties,” Guttenplan said. “It’s kind of almost
ironic that they’re bringing back the Rouse name.”  Malls in Plano,  Texas , and Taylor,  Michigan , are the only
ones acquired in the Rouse deal that will be in the new REIT,
according to a comparison of Rouse’s last annual report in 2003
and the list of General Growth’s planned malls to be spun off.  166 Malls  General Growth has ownership and management interest in 166
shopping malls in 43 states. The properties proposed to be spun
off account for 7 percent of the company’s net operating income,
according to yesterday’s statement.  The decision to spin off the malls “suggests that the
market for B quality regional mall assets is not strong,”  Rich Moore , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Solon, Ohio, said in
a note to investors today. General Growth’s operational results
were “lighter than those produced” by its peers, Moore wrote.  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the only U.S. mall owner larger
than General Growth, last week reported second-quarter FFO that
beat analysts’ estimates on higher rents and occupancies. The
Indianapolis-based company raised its full-year forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  