-- 
Fresenius Medical Agrees to Buy Liberty Dialysis of U.S. for $1.7 Billion

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-08-02T17:13:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/germany-s-fresenius-medical-care-to-buy-liberty-dialysis-for-1-7-billion.html
Fresenius Medical Care AG agreed to
buy Liberty Dialysis Holdings Inc. for $1.7 billion, one of two
acquisitions announced today to expand its U.S. clinic network.  Liberty Dialysis, a closely held company based in Mercer
Island,  Washington , has 260 clinics with annual revenue of about
$1 billion,  Bad Homburg , Germany-based Fresenius Medical said in
a statement today. The deal is expected to close early next
year, the German company said. Fresenius Medical also will buy
U.S.-based  American Access Care Holdings LLC  for $385 million.  “Fresenius has certainly shown that scale matters,” Lisa Clive, a London-based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.,
said by phone today. She has an “outperform” recommendation on
the shares. “It makes strategic sense.”  Bigger dialysis chains have an advantage under a new U.S.
Medicare reimbursement system, Sanford’s Clive said. Called the
bundled rate, the new system is a fixed compensation amount
designed to reduce overuse of drugs that were previously
separately billable.  Blood Cleaning  American Access runs outpatient clinics for procedures such
as fistulas and grafts that give permanent surgical access to
veins, reducing the need to use temporary catheters for dialysis
blood-cleaning treatment. Using such procedures may help
Fresenius reduce the number of expensive-to-treat infections,
Clive said. Catheters also tend to make patients require higher
doses of some drugs, she said.  Companies similar to American Access may increasingly be
acquisition targets for dialysis chains, she said, because they
may help cut drug costs under bundled pricing.  Second-quarter net income rose 5 percent to $260.8 million
from $248.3 million a year earlier, Fresenius Medical said
today. The result met the $261 million average estimate of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Revenue per treatment in U.S. clinics, a measure of
profitability, fell to $348 from $356 in the year-earlier
period. International sales rose 26 percent to $1.16 billion.  Acquisition Budget  Fresenius Medical fell 1.10 euros, or 2.1 percent, to 51.64
euros at the close of Frankfurt trading, giving the company a
market value of 15.4 billion euros ($21.8 billion). The stock
returned 24 percent in the past year.  Fresenius Medical repeated a forecast issued May 4 that net
income will be between $1.07 billion and $1.09 billion, with
revenue of more than $13 billion this year. The company said it
expects to spend about $1.9 billion on acquisitions this year.  Separately,  Fresenius SE (FRE) , which owns 36 percent of
Fresenius Medical, increased its 2011 forecast, saying it
expects net income adjusted for the acquisition of APP
Pharmaceuticals to rise by 15 percent to 18 percent at constant
exchange rates. The company had previously forecast a 12 percent
to 16 percent increase. Fresenius repeated that sales will rise
7 percent to 8 percent this year.  First-half adjusted net income rose 20 percent to 363
million euros.  The shares rose 26 cents, or 0.4 percent, to 72.75 euros.  Fresenius SE, also based in Bad Homburg, runs private-
hospital operator Helios, the Vamed health-care services unit
and Fresenius Kabi, which sells infusion therapies and clinical
nutrition products.  The shareholders of Liberty Dialysis include private equity
companies KRG Capital Partners, which is based in Denver, and
 Bain Capital , which has its headquarters in  Boston , according to
a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  