-- 
Giffords Gets Standing Ovation in Emotional Return to U.S. House

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-08-02T04:01:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/giffords-gets-standing-ovation-in-u-s-house-return-to-vote-for-debt-deal.html
Seven months after a gunman’s bullet
shattered her skull, U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords  of
 Arizona  surprised her colleagues in an emotional return to the
U.S. House to vote for raising the U.S. debt ceiling.  Giffords, 41, who was wounded with 12 others on Jan. 8 by a
lone gunman who killed six people when she met with constituents
in Tucson, has undergone brain surgery, facial reconstruction
and therapy to regain her ability to walk and speak.  Her entrance to the chamber amid cheers that turned into a
standing ovation provided a poignant moment for the climax of
months of rancorous debate on the debt ceiling. Her appearance
upstaged the 269-161 House vote that approved a $2.1 trillion
increase in the borrowing limit and cut at least $2.4 trillion
in spending.  “Members were shocked” to see her enter the chamber, said
House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat who
had received advance word of Giffords’s plans to come to the
Capitol. “We had our girl talk and our girl hugs,” Pelosi
said.  After the vote ended, her colleagues and spectators in the
packed visitors gallery greeted Giffords with a second standing
ovation. She stood and waved. Democrats and Republicans rushed
toward her, many hugging her as they said their greetings. Her
husband, astronaut  Mark Kelly , was alongside her as she left the
chamber.  Vice President  Joe Biden , who watched the House vote in
Pelosi’s conference room, entered the chamber after the roll
call to welcome Giffords. “She’s remarkable,” said Biden, who
underwent two cranial surgeries years ago to treat an aneurysm.  Steps of Recovery  The vice president and Giffords “commiserated about the
steps of recovery” because “it scares the living devil out of
you when you’re recovering from a serious injury to your head,”
Biden told reporters as he left the Capitol.  The welcome Giffords received from Republicans including
Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann , a candidate for her
party’s 2012 presidential nomination who opposed raising the
debt limit under any agreement, shows “there is a basic
humanity here,” Biden said.  “Here I am hugging Gabby and Michele Bachmann,” Biden
said. “It’s really good.”  Giffords’s return is “a triumph of the first magnitude,”
Republican Trent Franks, said in a floor speech welcoming his
fellow Arizonan. “Once in awhile in this life we find an
example where tragedy is transcended by the human spirit and the
grace of God.”  Pelosi called Giffords’s trip to Washington “above and
beyond the call of duty.”  Motivating Factor  The vote that sealed House approval of the debt agreement
leading to a monthlong recess was “the motivating factor” for
her return, said Democratic Whip  Steny Hoyer  of  Maryland .  “She wanted to be with her colleagues as she was at the
very beginning of the year,” Hoyer said. “We look forward to
her coming back and staying back.”  Pelosi said she didn’t know when Giffords might return to
the Capitol for good. “I don’t know her schedule, but we are
awfully glad she was here.”  The accused gunman, Jared Lee Loughner, 22, has been
diagnosed with schizophrenia and ruled mentally incompetent to
stand trial for the killings and for allegedly trying to
assassinate Giffords as she was holding a Saturday town-hall
meeting with constituents at a shopping center.  “As low as that Saturday morning was, this was equally
high,” said Representative Robert Andrews, a New Jersey
Democrat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowle@bloomberg.net  and
Lisa Lerer at   llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this
story: Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  