-- 
Google Says It Hires FTC Intellectual Property Expert Michel

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-08-03T04:58:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/google-hires-federal-trade-commission-intellectual-property-expert-michel.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , under investigation by
the Federal Trade Commission for its dominance of Internet
searches, said it hired Suzanne Michel, one of the commission’s
top intellectual property officials.  Michel, 49, is leaving her post as deputy director of
policy planning at the FTC, where she worked for more than 11
years on patent antitrust issues and patent policy. She will
join the company’s legal team, Aaron Zamost, a Google spokesman,
said, declining to elaborate on what her responsibilities will
be.  Michel was the chief writer of a patent  report  the FTC
issued in March, which analyzed the evolution of the patent
system in the U.S. and made recommendations on how to improve
 patent law  to promote innovation. The report also made
suggestions to the courts on how to make patent remedies more
effective.  Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to comment on
Michel’s move.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, faces a growing
threat from intellectual-property lawsuits and is seeking to buy
patents that potentially could be used in counterattacks to
create what its General Counsel Kent Walker has called a
“disincentive” to sue the company.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  sued Google over claims its Android mobile
operating system copied Oracle’s Java programming language.
Google is also under attack from rivals including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  that allege infringement by handset makers that
use Android.  Patent Buying  Last month, Google bought patents from  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   Apple ,  Microsoft  and its partners, which include  Research
in Motion Ltd. , Sony Corp., Ericsson AB and EMC Corp., beat out
Google last month in the biggest patent auction in history, a
$4.5 billion purchase from bankrupt Nortel Networks Corp.  The U.S.  Justice Department  is examining the sale to see if
it hurts competition in the smartphone industry, a person
familiar with the matter said. If the Justice department doesn’t
challenge the deal, the winners of Ontario-based Nortel’s
patents will control more than 6,000 patents and applications
that cover wireless technologies.  Google is also calling on Congress and the Federal Trade
Commission to rein in lawsuits, and asking the Patent and
Trademark Office to take a closer look at patents being used in
litigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  