-- 
Greek Banks Should Consider Mergers to Help Funding, OECD Says

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-08-02T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/greek-banks-should-merge-with-foreign-institutions-to-win-funds-oecd-says.html
Greek banks should look at mergers
with foreign lenders to help them tap market funding and
shouldn’t rush to reduce their reliance on the  European Central
Bank , according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  “Further bank consolidation could be one option to
increase access to market liquidity,” the Paris-based OECD said
in a report today. “Managers and shareholders should, however,
explore the option of partnerships or mergers with foreign
banks.”  Greek banks have been left largely reliant on emergency
support from the ECB amid a shrinking economy, downgrades by
credit-ratings companies and concern over their holding of Greek
 government bonds . The country has received two international
bailouts and its banks own about 48.4 billion euros ($69
billion) of the country’s sovereign debt.  The OECD said the financial system will remain “hobbled”
until the public finances are strengthened and risks related to
the economy decrease. The banking system is in a “difficult
situation” and a balance must be found between “adequate
prudential restraints” and allowing enough credit to fuel an
economic recovery, it said.  “Until greater market confidence can be achieved,
continued reliance on ECB facilities to maintain sufficient
liquidity seems inevitable,” the report said. “Attempts to
reduce banks’ dependence on ECB liquidity thus need to be
approached with caution, as they could trigger a liquidity
crunch.”  Greek banks’ reliance on ECB liquidity rose to 103 billion
euros in June from 97.5 billion euros in May, according to data
from the country’s central bank.  Adjustment Program  The OECD sees  Greece ’s economy contracting 3.5 percent this
year and growing 0.6 percent in 2012. The European Commission
estimates Greece’s debt will peak at 161 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012.  “Under conservative assumptions regarding growth and
 interest rates , and if fiscal and structural reforms are fully
implemented, the debt-GDP ratio could peak in 2013 and fall
below 60 percent in the next two decades,” the OECD said.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  cut the deficit to 10.5
percent of GDP in 2010 from 15.4 percent in 2009, and aims to
reduce it to 7.5 percent this year. The OECD said Greece should
boost privatization to reduce the debt burden, reform the labor
market and “decisively” attack tax evasion.  “Authorities should continue this vigorous reform process
and their efforts to convince markets of their capacity to
implement fundamental economic adjustments,” the OECD said.  “Although very challenging, a similar significant
consolidation effort has been achieved in the past in Belgium,
Denmark and  Finland , albeit in more propitious circumstances,”
the report said. “This long overdue reform program will have
long-term benefits despite short term costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 