-- 
Pimco’s Gross Says Debt Deal Fails to Make Dent in Deficit

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C a r o l   M a s s a r
-- 
2011-08-02T21:25:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/gross-says-debt-deal-fails-to-make-significant-dent-in-deficit.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said the debt ceiling compromise reached by Congress won’t make
a “significant dent” in U.S. deficits.  “In addition to an existing nearly $10 trillion of
outstanding Treasury debt, the U.S. has a near unfathomable $66
trillion of future liabilities at net present cost,” Gross
wrote in a monthly investment outlook posted on the  Newport
Beach , California-based company’s  website  today.  Trillions of dollars in future spending cuts and tax
increases are still necessary to stabilize the U.S. debt ratio
as a percentage of gross domestic product to maintain a AAA
credit rating, Gross wrote. President  Barack Obama  signed into
law a debt-limit compromise bill that will defer decisions on
the nation’s finances to a bipartisan panel and may only
modestly reduce deficits while slowing economic growth.  “It’s a Republican tea party victory,” Gross said today
in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “Tax hikes have to be
a part of the equation. It needs to be a balanced approach. The
markets are very skeptical in terms of any plan.”  Yields on 10-year Treasury notes dropped to 2.60 percent,
the lowest since Nov. 9. Treasury 30-year bonds dropped to 3.9
percent, in the biggest drop since May 2010 on concern about
slow economic growth. The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index erased its
gain for the year.  Quantitative Easing  “We are at a tipping point,” Gross said, adding that the
firm has reduced its forecasts for economic growth in the second
half of the year to a range of 1 percent to 2 percent, from 2
percent to 3 percent.  “There’s the potential for QE3, but that may take the form
of extended language,” Gross said, referring to the  Federal
Reserve ’s prior stimulus measures that have become known as
quantitative easing. “The Fed is in the business of providing
emergency liquidity and reducing the cost of credit. They are
approaching a dead end in that all they can do have been done.”  Investors should buy assets of countries with “cleaner
dirty shirts” and higher real interest rates, including  Canada ,
 Mexico ,  Brazil  and  Germany , Gross wrote in his outlook. The
difference between the yield on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes
and the year-over-year  consumer price index , known as the real
yield, dropped today to negative 100 basis points, the lowest
level since October 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Being Shortchanged’  “If the Treasury is borrowing money from you or PIMCO at
0.5 percent for the next six months and CPI inflation is
averaging 3 percent, then lenders, savers are being shortchanged
beyond even rather egregious historical examples,” Gross wrote.
Inflation “puts more money in government coffers to pay their
bills and less money in your pocket to pay yours,” he wrote.  Gross has more than doubled his investments in non-U.S.
developed countries to 13 percent in June from 6 percent in
April, according to data released last month. His $245 billion
Total Return Fund’s had 11 percent of its holdings in emerging
markets. It holds about 9 percent of Treasuries in its
portfolio, up from 8 percent in June, Gross said in the
interview on Bloomberg Television. In July 2010, the fund had 54
percent of its holdings in government-related debt, a category
that included Treasuries.  Gross highlighted balancing the budget, inflation,  currency
depreciation  and so-called financial repression of keeping
 interest rates  low as ways that a government can employ to
reduce future liabilities. Growth at an annual pace of 2 percent
to 3 percent makes it unlikely that the U.S. will be able to
grow its way out of its $1.5 trillion deficit, Gross said.  ‘Unsolvable Dilemma’  “Sisyphus would be familiar with this seemingly unsolvable
dilemma,” Gross wrote, referring to the mythological king who
was punished by being repeatedly compelled to roll a boulder up
a hill, only to have it roll back down again.  Obama signed the debt-limit compromise on the day the
Treasury had warned the nation’s borrowing authority would
expire, ending a months-long debate that reinforced partisan
divisions over federal spending.  The Senate voted 74-26 for the measure, which raises the
nation’s debt ceiling until 2013 and threatens automatic
spending cuts to enforce $2.4 trillion in spending reductions
over the next 10 years. The House passed the plan Aug. 1.  Standard & Poor’s placed the U.S. AAA rating on
“CreditWatch” July 14, saying there’s a 50 percent chance it
would be cut within 90 days even if an agreement is reached by
the deadline. S&P said it needs to see “a credible solution to
the rising U.S. government debt burden.”  Mohamed A. El-Erian, the co-chief investment officer along
with Gross at Pimco, said July 25 that the U.S. may lose its AAA
rating.  The Total Return Fund has returned 5.86 percent in the past
year, beating 71 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It gained 1.32 percent over the past
month, beating 35 percent of its competitors. The firm manages
$1.3 trillion in assets as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Massar in New York at 
 cmasser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  