-- 
Li Ka-Shing’s CKI to Buy Northumbrian Water for $3.9 Billion

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-08-02T15:39:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/li-ka-shing-s-cki-agrees-to-buy-northumbrian-water-for-465-pence-per-share.html
A group led by  Hong Kong  billionaire
Li Ka-shing’s  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (1038)  agreed to
buy  Northumbrian Water Group Plc (NWG)  for 2.4 billion pounds ($3.9
billion) in its second U.K. acquisition in a year.  Cheung Kong Infrastructure, known as CKI, will pay 465
pence a share, according to a statement today. That’s 26 percent
higher than the water provider’s closing price on June 23, the
day before the first press report that it was subject to
takeover interest.  The deal values Northumbrian at 5.8 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, excluding debt,
compared with a median valuation of 6.5 times EBITDA for six
comparable water deals tracked by Bloomberg. CKI led a group
that bought Electricite de France SA’s U.K. power networks for
5.8 billion pounds in July 2010.  “With CKI, it’s not about smoke and mirrors and leveraged
buyouts, this is someone saying the allowed return will be at a
premium to the cost of capital,” said  Lakis Athanasiou , an
analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. in  London . “This should be
reasonably positive for the rest of the water sector.”  Northumbrian rose 4.5 percent to 469.50 pence in London,
the highest since it began trading in 2003. CKI climbed 3
percent to HK$46.15 in Hong Kong trading.  CKI has been snapping up power, water and road assets in
 Australia , Canada and the U.K. to counter price curbs in Hong
Kong’s power market.  ‘Familiar Jurisdictions’  “Overall, it’s positive news that will have upside effects
on its earnings and target price although it’s somewhat expected
by the market,” said Evan Li, an equity analyst at Standard
Chartered Bank in Hong Kong. “Their strategy is to go to places
with familiar jurisdictions.”  CKI sold Cambridge Water Plc to HSBC Holdings Plc, reducing
the risk of the deal being referred to the U.K.’s Competition
Commission. The company, which is being advised by Royal Bank of
 Canada  and HSBC, still owns a 4.75 percent stake in Southern
Water.  The directors of Northumbrian Water, advised by Deutsche
Bank AG, will vote in favor of the deal at a shareholder
meeting, CKI said. The  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , which
owns a 27 percent stake in the U.K. utility, will also back the
purchase, according to the statement.  Non-Binding Offer  Northumbrian Water, based in Durham,  England , supplies
about 4.4 million customers in the U.K. On July 11, the water
utility said it had received a non-binding offer of 2.4 billion
pounds from CKI.  CKI’s first-half net income rose 96 percent to HK$3.98
billion from HK$2.03 billion a year earlier, helped by gains
from its U.K. business, the company said July 28.  “With a strong balance sheet and extensive acquisition
experience, CKI will continue to advance our acquisition trail
and pursue more investment opportunities,” Chairman Victor Li
said in the statement at the time. “We are currently assessing
a number of new projects around the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  