-- 
Li Ka-Shing’s $3.9 Billion U.K. Water Purchase Shows Desire to Avoid Risk

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-08-02T16:15:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/li-ka-shing-s-3-9-billion-u-k-water-purchase-shows-desire-to-avoid-risk.html
Li Ka-shing ’s 2.4 billion-pound ($3.9
billion) purchase of the U.K.’s  Northumbrian Water Group Plc (NWG) 
shows Hong Kong’s richest man remains keen to add utility assets
that avoid the risks of  developing countries .  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (1038) , the company known
as CKI that’s controlled by Li, has been snapping up regulated
water, power and road assets in the U.K.,  Australia  and  Canada 
for their guaranteed rates of return. In the U.K., where rates
are set for at least five years, Li has spent about 8.4 billion
pounds on acquisitions in just over a year.  “We like to see good regular growth,” Kam Hing Lam,
managing director at CKI, told reporters yesterday in  Hong Kong .
“In richer countries, there are a lot of these types of
investment opportunities for us. In other countries, investment
projects may not satisfy our criteria for stability.”  Including debt, the 4.7 billion-pound acquisition of
Northumbrian Water is the largest announced this year in the
U.K., ahead of PPL Corp.’s 4.1 billion-pound purchase of EON
AG’s electricity distribution business in the U.K., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The CKI-led group behind the acquisition will pay 465 pence
a share for Northumbrian, 26 percent more than the water
provider’s closing price on June 23, the day before the first
press report that it was subject to takeover interest. It will
gain about 4.4 million customers in the U.K.  CKI climbed 3 percent to a record HK$46.15 in Hong Kong
trading yesterday. Northumbrian Water rose 4.5 percent in
 London .  Inflation-Protected  The purchase is also a guard against future inflation.  Rising prices boost profits for regulated utilities, whose
rates are index-linked and reset every few years by the
government. Water companies including United Utilities Plc,
Severn Trent Plc and Northumbrian underwent a regulatory review
in 2009 that assumed retail price inflation of 4.71 percent
through fiscal year 2011.  “Amongst a portfolio of investments, these are the safe
steady ones,” Angelos Anastasiou, a London-based analyst at
Investec Securities, said in an interview. “It’s a direct hedge
against U.K. inflation and the British regulatory regimes --
water, electricity and gas -- have been in place for 25 years,
so you know how they operate and that they work well.”  Raise Prices  Northumbrian Water has regulatory approval to raise prices
in some areas by 8 percent in the coming year, Andrew Hunter,
deputy managing director at CKI, said at yesterday’s briefing in
Hong Kong. The water utility has agreed on prices with
regulators through 2015, giving it good visibility on future
income, Hunter said.  As a result of the Northumbrian deal, CKI controls stakes
in gas, electricity and water assets in the U.K. Other British
assets controlled by the company include a 4.75 percent stake in
Southern Water and it is part of a group that runs Northern Gas
Networks Ltd.  CKI acquired a stake in U.K. generator Seabank Power Ltd.
for 212 million pounds in May last year, and led a group that
bought Electricite de France SA’s U.K. power networks for 5.8
billion pounds in October.  Up until yesterday, CKI also owned Cambridge Water Plc,
which it sold to  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to minimize the likelihood of
a referral to the U.K.’s Competition Commission.  As well as developed markets and its base of Hong Kong, CKI
operates in mainland China and the  Philippines . About two-thirds
of CKI’s revenue came from outside Hong Kong in 2010, while net
income from the U.K. gained 92 percent.  Regulated Assets  “The company has always been interested in regulated
assets,” Kam said. CKI “has invested previously in the U.K.,
Australia,  New Zealand , and Canada, and this latest investment
is a continuation of that preference for British-type regulated
assets.”  CKI needs to borrow about 600 million pounds to fund the
acquisition, Deputy Chairman Edmond Ip said. The net debt-to-
equity ratio, or gearing, will rise to 19 percent after the
purchase, Ip said.  “From an investor’s point of view,  China  is not a very
suitable place since many Chinese infrastructure companies are
state-owned and their fundamentals are not as developed as
overseas,” said Ka-Kei Lam, a Hong Kong-based investment
manager at Redford Assets Management Ltd. who helps to manage
$300 million. “Northumbrian is a bit undervalued so CKI is
buying it at a good price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  