-- 
Mideast HIV Epidemic Emerging as Sex Between Men Fuels Disease, Study Says

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-02T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/mideast-hiv-epidemic-emerges-as-sex-between-men-fuels-spread-study-finds.html
Sex between men is responsible for
more than a quarter of new HIV infections in parts of the Middle
East and North Africa, according to a study that shows epidemics
of the AIDS-causing virus are emerging in the region.  High-risk sex between truck drivers in Morocco and
Pakistan, prisoners in Lebanon and street children in  Egypt  are
fueling the spread of HIV among those groups, researchers in
Qatar found in a study of data from 23 nations published
yesterday by the Public Library of Science in its journal  PLoS
Medicine .  The survey is the first to describe the state of HIV among
gay and bisexual men in a region where same-sex intercourse is
often criminal and the stigma associated with it can hinder
efforts to prevent transmissions, the researchers said. They
hope the findings will spur governments to curb the epidemics,
said  Laith Abu-Raddad , an associate professor of public health
at the  Weill Cornell Medical College  in Qatar who led the study.  “Only a few countries have started in the right
direction,” Abu-Raddad said in a telephone interview from Doha,
citing Morocco,  Pakistan  and Lebanon. “The majority of
countries still haven’t really acted.” He declined to say which
nations are lagging behind, saying the matter is sensitive.  New HIV infections in the Middle East and North Africa more
than  doubled  to 75,000 in 2009 from 36,000 in 2001, according to
the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, or UNAIDS.
Reliable data on epidemics in the region are scant, the Geneva-
based agency said on its website.  Pakistan’s Male Prostitutes  Abu-Raddad and colleagues compiled data from 95 studies and
articles. In most countries, fewer than 10 percent of gay and
bisexual men have HIV, they found, less than western nations
such as the U.S., where the rate is 21 percent. Infections were
highest among a group of male prostitutes in Pakistan, where 28
percent have the virus.  Sex between men was responsible for more than half of
Lebanon’s new HIV infections in 2008, compared with 13 percent
of all infections in that nation since the first cases were
detected. Gay sex accounted for 20 percent of new infections in
Egypt, and at least a quarter in Oman and  Syria , the study
found.  Risky sex between men threatens to worsen the epidemics and
create new ones as the virus spreads into populations it hasn’t
reached before, the researchers said. The men had between four
and 14 sex partners in the past six months on average, and fewer
than 25 percent said they regularly used condoms.  “Since we have this high-risk behavior and this potential
for further spread, if HIV is introduced we might see growing
epidemics,” said  Ghina Mumtaz , a senior epidemiologist who was
the lead author on the study. “This is why it’s important to
act quickly.”  Social, Religious Taboos  About 2 percent to 3 percent of men in the region engage in
sex with other men, the researchers said, similar to the rate in
other regions.  While legal, social and religious taboos against homosexual
sex in the  Middle East  and North Africa can make it difficult
for governments to tackle HIV among gay and bisexual men, some
are getting around the problem by supporting non-governmental
organizations that provide testing, counseling, condoms and
other support to men at risk of acquiring the virus, Abu-Raddad
said.  “It’s really time for action, for policy makers to think
about it and also for them to know there are creative ways to
dealing with the issue, even within the socially conservative
context of this region,” he said.  The study was funded by the  World Bank , UNAIDS and the
 World Health Organization . Weill Cornell Medical College in
Qatar is a partnership between the  Qatar Foundation  and  Cornell
University  in Ithaca,  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  