-- 
Tiger Woods Plays Practices on Atlanta Course for Akron, PGA Championship

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-02T05:07:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/tiger-woods-practices-at-pga-championship-course-before-flying-to-akron.html
Tiger Woods played a practice round
yesterday at  Atlanta Athletic Club  in preparation for this
month’s PGA Championship.  “I had a blast out there on a wonderful golf course,”
Woods, a four-time  PGA Championship  winner, said on his  website .
“It should be a great test for a major championship.”  It’s the first time Woods has confirmed he’s played 18
holes of golf since beginning rehabilitation 2 1/2 months ago
for knee and Achilles tendon injuries.  Woods makes his return to competition this week at the
 World Golf Championships-Bridgestone Invitational  at  Firestone
Country Club  in Akron, Ohio. He’s then scheduled to play in the
PGA Championship, the final major tournament of the season, from
Aug. 11-14.  Woods, 35, played in 2 1/2 hours while using a golf cart
before flying to Akron. Woods is a seven-time winner of the WGC
event at Firestone, most recently in 2009. He hasn’t played in a
tournament since May 12, when he pulled out of the Players
Championship after nine holes.  “I’m very excited about competing,” said Woods, who is
scheduled to hold a news conference today in Akron. “Firestone
is a wonderful venue and I’m looking forward to getting back out
there with the guys.”  Woods also confirmed that Bryon Bell, his longtime friend
and the president of Woods’s golf course design company, will be
his caddie at the WGC event. Woods said on July 20 that he was
parting with Steve Williams, who was his caddie for 13 of his 14
major championship wins.  Bell caddied for Woods during his run to a third straight
U.S. Amateur title in 1996 and on four occasions on the U.S. PGA
Tour, including his 1999 Buick Invitational win.  “We’ve had success on the course together before,” Bell
said on Woods’s website. “I hope I’m a good asset for him while
he searches for a permanent caddie.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  