-- 
Tiger Woods Says He’s Fully Recovered, Ready for Return to Golf at Akron

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-02T16:38:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/tiger-woods-says-he-s-recovered-from-injuries-ready-for-pga-tour-return.html
Tiger Woods said he’s fully recovered
from knee and Achilles tendon injuries that forced him out of
competition for the past 2 1/2 months.  Woods, 35, is returning this week at the  World Golf
Championships-Bridgestone Invitational  at  Firestone Country Club 
in Akron,  Ohio . He’s then scheduled to play in the  PGA
Championship , the final major tournament of the season, at
Atlanta Athletic Club Aug. 11 to 14.  Woods played an 18-hole practice round at the PGA
Championship site yesterday and then flew to Akron, where he had
a nine-hole practice session this morning.  “It feels solid, stable, no pain,” Woods said today at a
televised news conference when asked about his knee. “That’s
one of the reasons I took as long as I did to come back. It’s
been a very long time and it feels good to be able to go out and
hit balls like this today.”  Woods will begin play in Akron  paired  with British Open
champion Darren Clarke of  Northern Ireland , teeing off at 1:40
p.m. local time on Aug. 4.  Woods hasn’t competed in a tournament since May 12, when he
pulled out of the  Players Championship  after nine holes.  Woods was originally injured at the  Masters Tournament  in
April and said he made a mistake by trying to return too soon
for the Players Championship. He sat out the past two majors,
the  U.S. Open  and British Open, while rehabilitating. At the
AT&T National in June, Woods said he wouldn’t return until his
injuries were 100 percent healed, and he said today that he
almost entered the Greenbrier Classic last week.  “I started practicing a couple weeks ago,” Woods said.
“But docs advised I take another week of training. I feel good
now. It was the right thing to do.”  Caddie Change  Woods said he’s still working with swing instructor  Sean
Foley  and his caddie this week will be Bryon Bell, his longtime
friend and the president of his golf-course-design company.
Woods parted ways on July 20 with  Steve Williams , who was his
caddie for 13 of his 14 major championship wins.  “I felt it was time for a change,” Woods said. “We had
an amazing run. We had a great partnership for 12 years, won a
bunch of tournaments, but I felt like it was time to change
things up a little bit. I was comfortable with the move.”  Bell caddied for Woods when he won his third straight U.S.
Amateur title in 1996 and on four occasions on the U.S. PGA Tour,
including his 1999 Buick Invitational win. Woods said he has no
timetable to hire a permanent caddie and that working with Bell
is temporary.  Woods is four wins shy of matching  Jack Nicklaus ’s record
of 18 major titles. His last victory in one of golf’s four Grand
Slam events came at the 2008 U.S. Open, a tournament he won
while hobbling on an injured left knee.  “My timetable isn’t very long to peak for the last one
here,” Woods said about the PGA Championship, a tournament he’s
won four times, most recently in 2007.  No Wins  Woods hasn’t won a tournament since November 2009. He’s
fallen to No. 28 in the Official World Golf Ranking after
holding the top spot for a record 281 weeks, dropping behind
players such as  David Toms , Martin Laird and Kim Kyung-Tae.  Woods has played in four stroke-play events on the  PGA Tour 
this season and tied for fourth at the Masters in April, his
last complete tournament. Woods currently isn’t eligible for the
PGA Tour’s FedEx Cup playoffs, at 135 in the  point standings .
The top 125 golfers in the FedEx Cup standings make the field
for the first playoff event.  “I’m excited to compete, to play and hopefully win the
 golf tournament ,” said Woods, who’s a seven-time champion at
Firestone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  