-- 
High-Yield Market May Close to Some Borrowers in 2nd Half

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-08-02T13:51:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/high-yield-market-may-close-to-some-borrowers-in-2nd-half-1-.html
Some companies may be shut out of
Europe’s high-yield bond market in the second half as investors
demand higher coupons amid concerns the region’s debt crisis
will worsen, according to  Fitch Ratings .  Demand for junk-graded bonds “has slowed considerably”
after European companies including Fiat SpA and Renault SA
issued a record 36.8 billion euros ($52 billion) of debt in the
six months to June 30, analysts Mathias Volkmer and Ed Eyerman
wrote in a report. Companies may hesitate to sell securities as
the debt crisis and slower global economic growth saps investor
confidence, according to the report.  “Even strong borrowers in favored sectors will have to pay
higher coupons,” the Fitch analysts wrote. “Euro zone risk
aversion and potential systemic contagion accompanying the
second Greek bailout, combined with weak European and global
economic data, halted investor confidence.”  The 12-month default rate for European high-yield debt may
rise from 0.2 percent in the second half and in 2012, and only
borrowers willing to pay higher costs may be able to access the
market, according to Fitch. The extra yield that investors
demand to hold high-yield European corporate bonds instead of
government debt jumped 48 basis points, or 0.48 percentage
point, to 606 in the past month, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data show.  Sales of junk-rated debt in  Europe  dropped to 3 billion
euros in June after reaching 8.7 billion euros in May, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies raised 4.6 billion
euros from bond markets in July.  High-yield, or junk, debt is graded below BBB- by Fitch and
 Standard & Poor’s  and Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  London  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  