-- 
Tepco Reports Second Deadly Radiation Reading at Fukushima Plant

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-08-02T10:31:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/high-fukushima-radiation-levels-won-t-delay-work-hosono-says.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. reported a
second deadly radiation reading at its wrecked Fukushima nuclear
plant north of Tokyo, following a radioactivity level discovered
yesterday that would cause death within weeks.  The utility known as Tepco said today it detected 5
sieverts of radiation per hour in the No. 1 reactor building.
Yesterday in another area it recorded radiation of 10 sieverts
per hour, enough to kill a person “within a few weeks” after a
single exposure, according to the  World Nuclear Association .  Radiation has impeded attempts to replace cooling systems
to bring three melted reactors and four damaged spent fuel ponds
under control after a tsunami on March 11 crippled the plant.
The latest reading was taken on the second floor of the No. 1
reactor building and will stop workers entering the area.  “The reading today was the highest inside a reactor
building since the accident,” Junichi Matsumoto, a general
manager at the utility, said at a press conference this evening.
Matsumoto said robots entered the level for the first time and
its device was capable of reading up to 5 sieverts.  The 10 sieverts of radiation detected yesterday outside
reactor buildings was the highest the Geiger counters used were
capable of reading, indicating the level could have been higher,
Matsumoto said.  “There may be other ’hot spots’ in reactor buildings and
that could delay Tepco’s efforts to deal with the crisis,” said
Tetsuo Ito, the head of the Atomic Energy Research Institute at
Kinki University.  Tepco Criticism  Tepco was forced to pump cooling water into the three
reactors after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami disabled
cooling systems. The company in May estimated there would be
200,000 tons of radiated water in basements and other areas of
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant by December.  “If nuclear fuels melted through containment chambers,
Tepco will find even higher radiation readings after water in
building basements is removed,” Ito said.  Tepco has been criticized by the government for withholding
radiation data and other missteps that have compounded the
crisis, which led to 160,000 people being evacuated from near
the plant.  Radiation leaks from the Fukushima reactors have spread
over 600 square kilometers, Tomio Kawata, a fellow at the
Nuclear Waste Management Organization of  Japan , said in a
research report published on May 24 and given to the government.  Radioactive soil in pockets of areas outside the exclusion
zone around the plant have reached the same level as in
Chernobyl following a reactor explosion in the former Soviet
Union territory 25 years ago, the report said.  The threats to Japan’s food chain are also multiplying as
radioactive cesium emissions from the Fukushima plant spread.
Contaminated beef has been found on supermarket shelves around
the country, forcing the government to ban cattle shipments from
areas in northern Japan.  Hydrogen Venting  The latest high radiation readings are probably coming from
materials released during early failed attempts to release
pressure in containment vessels and vent hydrogen gas to prevent
explosions that damaged reactor buildings, Matsumoto said today.  There were about 2,760 workers at the plant yesterday, he
said.  Tepco on April 17 set out a so-called road map to end the
crisis by January, aiming to bring down radiation levels at the
plant within three months and then achieve a so-called cold
shutdown where reactor temperatures fall below 100 degrees
Celsius (212 degrees Fahrenheit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in  Tokyo  at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  