-- 
Iowa Corn, Soybean Crops Damaged by Hot, Dry Conditions in July

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-08-02T15:18:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/iowa-corn-soybean-crops-damaged-by-hot-dry-conditions-in-july.html
Iowa , the biggest U.S. grower of corn
and soybeans, had the hottest July in 56 years and driest since
2006, damaging both crops, climatologist Harry Hillaker said.  The average temperature for July was 78.8 degrees
Fahrenheit (26 Celsius), or 5 degrees above normal, making it
the seventh warmest July in 139 years of records and the 10th
warmest for any month, Hillaker said. The last warmer July
was in 1955 and the last warmer month was August 1983, he said.  Crop conditions in south-central and south-eastern Iowa
were the worst as flooding in May and June was followed by
hotter-than-normal conditions in July, Hillaker said
by e-mail today. Plants in the southern part of the state may
not have long enough roots to reach water supplies, slowing
growth, he said.  “Planting was delayed in that area this spring, crops are
not as far along in maturity and corn is probably not as deeply
rooted as elsewhere and thus not able to take full advantage of
better moisture deeper in the soil,” Hillaker said.
“Excessive heat is never good in mid-summer.”  Corn futures gained 7.8 percent in July on speculation the
heat in the U.S. Midwest would curb yields. Soybeans rose 4.9
percent.  The hot weather will probably curb production and warm, dry
conditions through this month would be the “worst scenario”
for plants that are at critical stages of development, said Gail
Martell, owner of Martell Crop Projections in Whitefish Bay,
 Wisconsin , in a report today.  “There may be a big surprise coming in 2011 with much
lower yields, perhaps down 8 percent from trend,” Martell said.
“Continuing heat would be the worst scenario. Persistent heat
in August interferes with kernel-filling, reducing test weights
and yields.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  