-- 
Irish Diseases Return to Economy as Jobs Scarcity Spurs Exodus

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-08-02T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/irish-diseases-return-to-economy-as-jobs-scarcity-spurs-exodus.html
Unemployment and emigration, the twin
diseases that blighted Ireland in the 1980s before its economic
boom, are returning to ail the country after the bust.  The jobless rate will probably remain above 14 percent
through the next year, according to economists at Allied Irish
Banks Plc and  Ulster Bank  in Dublin. That’s double the level of
three years ago. The  unemployment rate  was 14.2 percent in June
and the statistics office will publish July data at 11 a.m.
tomorrow. Meanwhile, more people are leaving the country than at
any time since 1989.  “Things are desperate,” Joe Cox, 51, who lost his job 11
months ago after running a hardware store before Ireland’s
property bubble imploded, said outside a welfare office in
Dublin. “Employers don’t even reply a lot of the time.”  While the pain of austerity is kicking in for the growing
ranks of unemployed in Europe’s most indebted nations, Ireland
has history catching up with it after the collapse of the Celtic
Tiger economy and  Europe ’s worst banking crisis.  Irish modern history has been marked by emigration since
the Great Famine, which began in 1845. The population shrank by
more than a third to 2.8 million in 100 years through 1961.
Unemployment averaged about 14 percent between 1992 and 1996,
before an influx of overseas investment sparked a boom.  The jobless rate plunged to as low as 3.7 percent even as
emigrants returned home and east Europeans poured into Ireland
seeking work before the boom shuddered to a halt in 2008.  ‘Painful, Protracted’  Job losses started in the  construction industry  before
rippling through the economy. Ireland now has the third-highest
rate in the 17-nation euro region, behind Greece and  Spain , and
unemployment will average 14.6 percent this year, according to
the European Commission  forecasts , compared with 10 percent
across the euro area.  “It will be a painful and protracted process to reduce
unemployment,” said  Austin Hughes , chief economist at KBC Bank
Ireland in Dublin. “The government’s finances are in such a
perilous position there isn’t any significant wherewithal to
throw at the problem.”  Rebecca Halliday, 32, lost her job as a legal secretary 18
month ago. An oboist, she’s working part time as a musician
after giving up on finding another law job.  “I looked for about two years, and went to more to 50
interviews but there was absolutely nothing there,” said
Halliday, speaking on Tara Street, close to the glitzy offices
along the old docks where many law firms are now based.  Heading to  London   Emigration has also resumed. After drawing almost 400,000
immigrants in the nine years through 2008, some 35,000 people
left in the year to April 2010, according to the latest  figures 
published by the statistics office.  Alan Courtney, who graduated from Trinity College with a
degree in biochemistry and immunology in 2009, decided to move
to London after he couldn’t find a job at home in nine months.  “I have a good degree and a masters,” Courtney, 24, said
outside a welfare office in the center of Dublin. “I’m a
prospective graduate-course candidate, and I can’t find a job.”  With the  budget deficit  forecast to be 10.5% of gross
domestic product this year, more than three times the European
Union limit, the government lacks the resources to fund any
large-scale job-creation plan. Still, some companies are adding
workers. Ericsson AB, the largest maker of wireless networks,
said in June it would add 100 software engineers at a facility
in Athlone in the Irish midlands.  Google Search  Two thirds of technology companies in Ireland are seeking
to hire people in 2011, according to a July 27 report by  Mazars
LLP , a U.K. financial and accountancy firm.  Trouble is, many people who lost jobs after the boom don’t
have the skills to fill the positions.  Eric Schmidt , executive
chairman of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which employs about 2,200 people in
Ireland, met with government ministers to discuss its struggle
to find graduates with math and science degrees, the Sunday
Business Post reported on July 3.  Welfare Minister  Joan Burton , who said last month
unemployment is becoming a “lifestyle choice” for some, is
cutting benefits for those who refuse jobs or training
opportunities.  “We’re still coming off the Celtic Tiger era when there
was such a buoyancy of revenue that finding the extra money was
not difficult,” Burton said in an interview on July 29. “That
situation has changed utterly and we have to adapt.”  Outside the welfare office in downtown Dublin, Cox says he
feels betrayed by Burton, a Labour Party minister in Ireland’s
five-month-old coalition government.  “She knows nothing about living with a family on 188 euros
a week,” Cox said. “Once they get your vote, they turn their
back on you.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Colm Heatley in Belfast News at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  