-- 
Italian Stability Body Blames “Uncertainty” for Market Tensions

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-08-02T18:55:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/italian-stability-body-blames-uncertainty-for-market-tensions.html
Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  led
a meeting of Italy’s stability committee and determined that the
recent turmoil on Italian financial markets reflects
“international uncertainty.”  “Analysis has shown that despite the efforts to
progressively reduce the  budget deficit , there are tensions in
Italian markets deriving from international uncertainty,” the
committee said in a statement after the meeting in Rome.
Tremonti met with Bank of Italy Director General Fabrizio Saccomanni and Giuseppe Vegas, chairman of Consob, Italy’s
financial-markets regulator.  The meeting discussed how to respond to the slump in
Italian stocks and bonds caused by contagion from the region’s
debt crisis. The committee determined that the Italian financial
and banking system is “solid,” according to the statement.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond reached a euro-era record
6.13 percent today and the benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  closed at
the lowest in more than two years as investors shun securities
of the region’s high debt nations. The slump in Italy’s bonds is
raising the costs of financing the euro-area’s second-biggest
debt, fueling concern that the country may follow Greece,
Ireland and Portugal in seeking European Union aid.  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  is set to address the
nation on his plans to spur growth to protect Italy from
contagion in speeches tomorrow afternoon in both houses of
Parliament in Rome. Tremonti will travel to Luxembourg tomorrow
to meet with Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the
group of euro-area finance ministers, to discuss to Italy’s
economic situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 