-- 
Italy, Spain 10-Year Bond Spreads Reach Euro-Era Record on Growth Concern

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-08-02T16:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/italian-spanish-10-year-spreads-at-euro-era-records-on-growth-concern.html
Italian and Spanish 10-year bonds
dropped, pushing yields up to euro-era records versus benchmark
German bunds, on concern that slowing growth will hamper efforts
to tame the nations’ debt loads.  German 10-year yields touched an eight-month low amid
speculation spending cuts included in a U.S. debt-limit
compromise agreement will harm the global economy. Investors
pared bets on higher euro-region borrowing costs as European
producer-price inflation slowed for a second month.  “This has all the features of a self-fulfilling crisis,”
said  Harvinder Sian , a senior bond strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in  London . “The rise in yields looks pretty
relentless, and it doesn’t look as if the politicians are
anywhere near to getting ahead of the curve.”  The yield on 10-year Italian bonds rose 13 basis points to
6.14 percent at 4:31 p.m. in London. It earlier surged to 6.25
percent, the most since November 1997. The 4.75 percent security
maturity in September 2021 fell 0.895, or 8.95 euros per 1,000-
euro ($1,422) face amount, to 90.34. That pushed the difference
in yield, or spread, over bunds, to as much as 384 basis points,
the most since before the euro was introduced in 1999.  Italian bond futures fell, sending the price difference
over bund futures to a record. The September Italian futures
contract fell 1 percent to 98.21 after reaching a record 96.75,
making the difference over its German equivalent 33.52.  Italian Meeting  “Suddenly,  Italy  joined the other peripherals,” said
Justin Knight, a European rate strategist at UBS AG in London.
“Investors are, in general, overweight Italy versus other
peripheral markets, and it’s going to be a difficult position to
unwind.”  Italy’s Financial Stability Committee is scheduled to meet
later today to discuss the increase in bond yields, Ansa
reported, without saying where it got the information. Finance
Minister  Giulio Tremonti  will meet officials from the  Bank of
Italy  and market regulators, the  news agency  said.  Spanish 10-year yields rose eight basis points to 6.28
percent and reached 6.46 percent, the most since 1997. That
pushed the spread over similar-maturity German debt as high as
404 basis points.  The crisis risks worsening should the Spanish yield touch
6.5 percent, RBS’s Sian said.  “Anything materially above that risks an acceleration like
we saw for  Greece , Ireland and Portugal,” he said. “The
political willingness to backstop the European Union is now what
the market needs.”  Euribor Futures  Euro-region producer prices rose 5.9 percent in June from
6.2 percent in May, as predicted by the median of 20 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey before the data.  Euribor futures rose, signaling investors are reducing bets
on higher borrowing costs before European Central Bank
policymakers meet to decide policy on Thursday. The implied
yield on the futures contract expiring in June 2012 fell six
basis points to 1.62 percent, the lowest since October.  The Swiss franc, a traditional haven from financial
turmoil, strengthened against all 16 major peers tracked by
Bloomberg. European stocks fell to a 10-month low.  German bonds outperformed all their euro-area peers,
including  France  and the Netherlands, with the exception of
Irish securities. The French-German spread widened for a fourth
straight day to 76 basis points.  Bunds Gain  Bunds advanced for an eighth day. The U.S. House of
Representatives yesterday voted to approve measures that will
raise the debt limit enough to fund the government until 2013.
The deal threatens automatic spending reductions to enforce a
goal of cutting $2.4 trillion over the next decade. U.S.
Treasuries advanced for a fourth day.  Ten-year bund yields slid four basis points to 2.42
percent, after falling as low as 2.39 percent.  The 10-year euro swap spread, which shows the difference
between the swap rate and the yield on benchmark German bunds
and is used as a measure of perceived risk, rose for a seventh
day, climbing as high as 73 basis points, the most since January
2009.  Widening swap spreads show that “the market is seeing
 Germany  as a flight-to-quality asset more and more given the
lack of confidence in the peripheral and U.S. debt markets,”
Cagdas Aksu, a fixed-income analyst at  Barclays Capital  in
London, wrote in an e-mailed note today. “The market continues
to remain heavily in risk-off mode.”  Belgian Auction  The yield premium investors demand to hold Belgian 10-year
bonds instead of benchmark bunds widened to a euro-era record of
207 basis points, even as demand improved at a debt sale.  The nation sold 2.75 billion euros of treasury bills,
slightly less than the maximum of 2.8 billion euros sought.
Investors sought 2.03 times the amount of three-month bills
sold, up from 1.2 times in the previous auction on July 12.
Demand for the six-month notes was 2.09 times the amount sold,
down from 2.59 times on July 5.  German  government bonds  handed investors 3.4 percent this
year, compared with 4.6 percent for U.S. Treasuries, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Greek bonds have lost 11 percent,
while  Portugal ’s have declined 22 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  