-- 
Itau Second-Quarter Profit Misses Estimates as Bad-Loan Provisions Rise

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-08-02T20:47:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/itau-second-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-as-bad-loan-provisions-rise.html
Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , Brazil’s
biggest bank by market value, fell to the lowest in more than
two years as second-quarter profit missed analysts’ estimates
amid higher provisions to cover soured loans.  Itau declined 5.8 percent to 29.58 reais ($18.89) at the
 Sao Paulo  market close today, its lowest price in two years. It
posted the fourth-biggest decline on the 67-company Bovespa
index. The shares have lost 26 percent this year, while rival
 Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  slipped 12 percent.  Net income climbed 14 percent to 3.6 billion reais, or 79
centavos per share, from 3.17 billion reais, or 70 centavos, a
year earlier, the Sao Paulo-based bank said today in a
regulatory filing. Adjusted earnings per share, which excludes
one-time items, were 73 centavos, compared with the mean
estimate of 82 centavos by eight analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Financial shares in emerging markets are underperforming
counterparts in developed countries as default rates have
started to rise after a credit boom in the past two years. In
 Brazil , equities have underperformed the Bovespa index, and Itau
has been punished the hardest because of measures by the
Brazilian government to curb credit and increased risk-aversion
on global markets, said Marco Saravalle, an analyst at
Coinvalores Corretora de Valores in Sao Paulo.  ‘Buy Opportunity’  “Itau shares have suffered excessively in part because the
bank is more dependent on external financing at a time when the
global market environment isn’t that positive,” Saravalle said
in a phone interview. “But we see this as a buy opportunity,
and we will reaffirm our buy recommendation on the stock, which
is still our favorite.”  Credit-loss provisions rose 29 percent to 5.11 billion
reais compared with 3.96 billion reais in the same period a year
ago, according to Itau’s statement. In the first quarter,
provisions were 4.38 billion reais.  The default rate, a measure of payments at least 90 days
overdue, rose to 4.5 percent at the end of June from 4.2 percent
in the first quarter. The rate was 4.6 percent in the year-
earlier period.  Itau doesn’t expect a “significant increase” in its
default rate this year, investor relations director Rogerio Calderon said in a conference call with journalists today.  “There was a small deterioration in the second quarter but
levels are still low, and we expect stability in the next two
quarters,” Calderon said.  Itau’s total lending expanded 22 percent in the second
quarter to 360.1 billion reais, compared with the same period a
year earlier, and total assets increased 22 percent to 792.5
billion reais, the company said.  16% to 20% Credit Growth  Calderon said Itau’s credit portfolio growth will probably
reach the center of the bank’s 16 percent to 20 percent lending
expansion guidance for 2011. The bank, led by Chief Executive
Officer Roberto Setubal, 56, said last quarter it expected its
loan portfolio to expand 15 percent to 20 percent in 2011,
slower than last year’s 21 percent.  Brazil’s central bank has tightened lending and increased
the benchmark  interest rate , making it harder for consumers in
 Latin America ’s biggest economy to pay debts, as credit has
expanded at an annual rate of 20 percent and inflation has
reached a six-year high. Brazilians used a record 26 percent of
disposable income to make loan payments, according to Banco
Central do Brasil.  The central bank raised lenders’ capital requirements in
December and increased interest rates five times this year to
12.5 percent.  Narrower Margins  Marcelo Telles , an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG,
said in a July 26 note to clients that he expected Itau’s
earnings would “disappoint” investors. He cut his rating on
the bank to “neutral” from “outperform,” citing estimates
for narrower margins and higher loan-loss provisions.  Outstanding credit in Brazil increased 20 percent in June
from a year earlier, led by a 50 percent rise in mortgage
lending. Credit expanded 1.6 percent in June to 1.834 trillion
reais, matching the highest rate of the year set in May, the
central bank said last week. Unemployment near record lows, an
increase in wages and the nation’s highest levels of  consumer
confidence  have fueled demand for retail and corporate loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  