-- 
Mitsui, Sumitomo Beat First-Quarter Profit Forecasts on Energy

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 
2011-08-02T06:14:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/mitsui-sumitomo-beat-first-quarter-profit-forecasts-on-energy.html
Mitsui & Co. and  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) ,
Japan’s second and fourth-largest trading houses, beat analyst
estimates for first-quarter profits, helped by higher energy and
mineral resource prices.  Net income rose 11 percent to 132.7 billion yen ($1.7
billion) in the three months ending June 30, compared with a
year earlier, Mitsui said today in a statement. That beat a
119.6 billion yen average of two analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sumitomo, the most-indebted of Japan’s traders, increased
net income by 36 percent to 83.6 billion yen, a record for the
fiscal first quarter, Chief Financial Officer Toyosaku Hamada
told reporters in  Tokyo  today. That beat the 60.3 billion yen
mean of four analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “In general, we see positive growth of the global economy
as continuing,” Hamada said. “We’re on track to exceed our
forecast for a record annual profit.”  A surge in commodity prices earlier this year and demand
from the domestic rebuilding effort after the record 9-magnitude
earthquake and tsunami in March are helping  Japan ’s traders to
bolster profits. Four of Japan’s six major trading companies,
Mitsui, Sumitomo and Itochu Corp. and Marubeni Corp. expect to
post record annual profits this fiscal year.  Itochu, Japan’s No. 3 trader, forecast in May 6 that profit
will increase 49 percent this fiscal year. Marubeni Corp., the
fifth-largest, expects a 25 percent net income gain and Mitsui
sees a 17 percent increase, the companies said May 6.  Crude oil averaged more than 50 percent higher, copper was
up about 33 percent, and iron ore prices more than double in the
first quarter of this fiscal year ending March 31, compared with
a year earlier, Sumitomo said today in a  presentation .  Mitsui said all of its business units apart from consumer
services posted a profit.  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
K in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  