-- 
Jailed U.K. Casino Boss May Die in Moscow Prison, Lawyer Says

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-08-02T14:53:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/jailed-u-k-casino-boss-may-die-in-moscow-prison-lawyer-says.html
A U.K. citizen arrested on suspicion
of running an illegal casino in Moscow may die in custody, like
Hermitage Capital Management Ltd. lawyer Sergei Magnitsky,
because he is being denied medical care, his attorney said.  Darren Keane, 43, chief executive officer of Storm
International, has been denied appropriate treatment for
thrombosis since his arrest in June, lawyer Anna Medvedeva said
today by phone.  “His condition worsened last week,” Medvedeva said. “He
has a clot in his left leg and it is swollen. We wouldn’t like
to see a repeat of the Magnistsky situation.”  Magnitsky died in November 2009 after almost a year in pre-
trial detention. He said he was abused and denied medical
treatment to force him to drop fraud allegations against
Interior Ministry officials. Russian prosecutors last month
opened a criminal investigation into two prison officials,
including a doctor, in relation to Magnitsky’s death.  Keane was detained June 22 on charges of illegal
entrepreneurship after police said they found roulette wheels
and  slot machines  during an April raid on a site operated by
Storm International, according to Medvedeva. Storm was the
biggest casino operator in  Russia  before President  Dmitry Medvedev  relegated gambling to four designated areas outside
Moscow two years ago.  Keane, who has a Russian wife and a son, faces as much as
five years in jail or a fine of 500,000 rubles ($17,950). Keane
hasn’t commented on the charges against him, Medvedeva said.  Butyrka Prison  Moscow’s Tver District Court ordered that Keane be held in
Butyrka prison until Aug. 22, Medvedeva said. The court has
rejected two requests for bail because Keane is a foreign
citizen and may leave the country, according to Medvedeva.  Officials at the main investigative department of the
Moscow city police weren’t immediately available for comment.
The Federal Penitentiary Service asked for written questions
when contacted by Bloomberg News. The service didn’t immediately
respond to questions submitted by fax.  The British embassy in Moscow is aware that a U.K. citizen
has been detained and is providing assistance, according to a
spokeswoman who declined to be identified because of embassy
policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  