-- 
Shipping Boom Seen for U.S. Ports Catering to Japan Needs: Freight Markets

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-08-02T22:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/japan-earthquake-rebuilding-bright-spot-for-western-ports-freight-markets.html
Longshoremen at ports in  Washington 
state and  Vancouver  are set to load more timber and lumber onto
vessels destined for Japan as the world’s third-biggest economy
rebuilds from a $220 billion natural disaster.  The March 11 9.0-magnitude earthquake and resulting tsunami
that left more than 20,000 people dead or presumed so will
require the biggest importation of logs, timber and plywood
since 2008, according to Wood Resources International LLC., a
forest-industry consulting firm based in Bothell, Washington.  Increased Asian demand may be the lone bright spot for dry-
bulk shippers including Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. and Mitsui
O.S.K. Lines Ltd. that are suffering from a glut of new ships
that’s pushing down charter rates. For timber companies such as
 Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY)  and Rayonier Inc., it’s a source of strength at
a time when the U.S. housing market is floundering.  “Demand will start to pick up in the second half and it
will probably last for a year or two,” said Hakan Ekstrom,
president of Wood Resources International. “Weyerhaeuser, since
they are a huge company and they have long, long relations with
Japanese companies, will benefit.”  A revival in exports to rebuild parts of Japan this year
and in 2012 will complement the 43 percent increase in the
volume of lumber that moved through Port Metro Vancouver in the
first five months of this year compared with last.  Lumber to Asia  The fourth-largest port in  North America  by tonnage saw a
22 percent increase in 2010 in the volume of lumber shipments to
Japan versus the prior year. Lumber exports to  China  jumped 39
percent and deliveries to  Taiwan  were up 32 percent.  “It’s going to benefit the dry-bulk trade in the form of
timber,” said Greg Lewis, a New York-based analyst at Credit
Suisse. He said the rebuilding effort in Japan will probably
also give a boost to tankers that transport oil and container
ships that move finished products. He recommends  Textainer Group
Holdings Ltd. (TGH) , a San Francisco-based company that leases dry-
freight containers.  Seattle, Tacoma and Olympia are among Washington state
ports that may be loading greater tonnages of timber aboard
ships destined for Japan after cleanup of debris is complete and
infrastructure rebuilding gets underway.  Federal Way, Washington-based Weyerhaeuser may stand to
gain the most compared with other U.S. logging companies because
of the type of timber used by Japanese homebuilders, the Douglas
fir.  West Coast Markets  Japan “will shift now to longer-term production of
permanent housing and that should benefit West Coast markets for
lumber,” Daniel Fulton, the company’s president and chief
executive officer, said in a July 29 conference call. “Our
large, long-term export market has been and will continue to be
Japan.”  Shares of Weyerhaeuser have risen 11.5 percent in the past
12 months, about the same as the 11.4 increase in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Rayonier Inc. (RYN) , based in Jacksonville,  Florida ,
has seen a 20 percent gain.  Japan intends to complete reconstruction in the next 10
years, with most of the rebuilding finished in five years,
Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said at a press conference in
 Tokyo  on July 26. The government plans to spend 19 trillion yen
($246 billion) over that period, according to a draft government
proposal obtained by Bloomberg News.  End of Year  At the same time, the shift from cleanup to rebuilding is
taking longer than initially anticipated. Efforts are still
focused on emergency housing, with regular  home construction 
expected to commence before the end of the year.  “Yes, there will be a shift because of Japanese demand,”
Lynn Wilson, vice president of U.S. forest resources at
Rayonier, said in a July 26 telephone interview.  Exports to Japan from the Port of  Seattle  increased 31
percent during the first five months of the year, compared with
the same period in 2010, said Emma Griffith, a director at  Fitch
Ratings  in  New York  who specializes in U.S. seaports. Wood
exports are up 16 percent. Paper and paperboard, transported in
dry-freight containers, are up 25 percent, she said.  The Port of Tacoma’s exports to Japan, the port’s second-
biggest trading partner, increased 15 percent during the first
five months of the year compared with the same time period in
2010. Two-way trade with Japan totaled $8.45 billion last year,
Tara Mattina, a port spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Glut of Ships  Dry-bulk shipping companies such as Hyundai Merchant and
Mitsui O.S.K. have been hurt by a glut of new ships that’s
pushed down charter rates. Reconstruction in  Japan  “will just
make it less bad” for firms in that field, said Lewis of Credit
Suisse.  The global fleet of dry-bulk carriers will also grow 13
percent this year, outpacing a 4 percent increase in traffic,
according to Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of the
world’s largest shipbroker.  Rick Holley, president and chief executive officer of Plum
Creek Co., said in a July 25 conference call with investors that
Asian demand is helping offset weakness in the U.S. market.  “We sold more volume from our coastal Washington
timberlands into attractively priced Asian log markets,” Lee Thomas, chairman and CEO of Rayonier, said in a July 28
statement after the company reported second-quarter earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  