-- 
Jefferson Official Sees ‘Sticking Points’ in Talks on Debt

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-08-02T21:42:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/jefferson-official-sees-sticking-points-in-talks-on-debt-2-.html
Jefferson County Commission President
David Carrington said there are probably “30 sticking points”
in talks with creditors over restructuring $3.1 billion of
sewer-system debt that has brought the municipality to the verge
of bankruptcy.  The county last week postponed a decision on whether to
enter the largest-ever municipal bankruptcy and extended
negotiations on reorganizing the debt it has struggled to repay.
Commissioners called a special meeting for 2 p.m.  New York  time
Aug. 4.  About $300 million divides the county and creditors,
Carrington said today in an interview after a commission
meeting. The county has asked bondholders to forgive $1.3
billion of the debt, while creditors have offered to write off
$1 billion.  “It’s more than dollar requirements,” Carrington said,
declining to elaborate. “People are working feverishly on both
sides.”  The county is insisting on a “holistic solution,”
Carrington said, which would restructure the sewer debt and
solve a cash crunch in its general fund after the state  Supreme
Court  in March struck down a wage and business-license tax that
generated about $75 million annually.  Taxing Power  State lawmakers in June refused to give the county more
taxing power after the court ruling, forcing 500 employees to be
put on leave.  The settlement being discussed would also resolve lawsuits
brought by the county, bondholders and debt insures against one
another, John Young, the court-appointed receiver who took over
management of the sewer system, said yesterday in an interview.  The accord also envisions a significant state role, Young
said. Lawmakers would need to create an independent sewer
authority and pledge the state’s “moral obligation” to back
the debt, he said. Governor Robert Bentley would have to call a
special session of the Legislature and lobby lawmakers to pass a
settlement package.  “It would be easier if it were simply numbers,” Young
said.  Commissioner Sandra Little Brown said the county was
preparing a counteroffer to the creditors before the Aug. 4
meeting.  “We are closer to bankruptcy than to a settlement,” she
said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net 
Kathleen Edwards in Birmingham,  Alabama , at
.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  