-- 
Kazakhstan Says Loan Quality May Improve on Fund, Tax Breaks

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-08-02T15:03:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/kazakhstan-says-loan-quality-may-improve-on-fund-tax-breaks.html
Kazakhstan ’s central bank said
commercial lenders expect their loan quality to improve as the
Central Asian nation sets up a fund to buy distressed assets and
introduces tax breaks.  Thirty-five percent of banks expect their loan quality to
improve “insignificantly” this quarter, while 51 percent said
it will remain unchanged, the National Bank of Kazakhstan in
Almaty said in a  quarterly survey  e-mailed today.  Credit quality continued to recover slowly in the second
quarter as banks extended loan duration to stave off
delinquencies, the regulator said.  Kazakhstan plans to create a fund to acquire problem loans
held by local lenders, central bank Chairman Grigori Marchenko
has said. The government is also considering tax amendments to
facilitate writedowns of bad loans. The state took control of
three lenders including BTA Bank, the nation’s largest bank at
the time, in 2009 after credit markets froze and a property
bubble burst.  Kazakhstan’s 39 banks posted a combined profit of 10.2
billion tenge ($70 million) in the first half compared with 268
million tenge a year earlier, while the amount of cash set aside
to cover loan losses shrank 9 percent to 2.9 trillion tenge,
according to the central bank’s  financial oversight committee .  Thirty-seven of the nation’s banks responded to the survey,
with 69 percent saying the pace of corporate foreclosures will
stay unchanged and 28 percent expecting an insignificant
increase. Seventy-one percent said the pace of foreclosures on
loans to households will stay the same, and 19 percent predicted
an insignificant increase.  The lenders surveyed by the central bank were asked to
choose among five possible answers: significant increase,
insignificant increase, no change, insignificant decrease and
significant decrease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  