-- 
Kenya-Uganda Rail Operator Signs $164 Million Loan Agreement

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-08-02T12:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/kenya-uganda-rail-operator-signs-164-million-loan-agreement.html
Rift Valley Railways Ltd., operator
of the Kenya- Uganda  railway, signed a $164 million loan accord
to finance an upgrade that may boost capacity almost four-fold,
according to its biggest shareholder,  Citadel Capital SAE.   The credit is part of a planned $287 million investment in
RVR over the next five years, Citadel Chairman Ahmed Heikal said
in an interview in the Kenyan capital, Nairobi.  “This investment will not only greatly improve the
efficiency of the railway, but that of the port of  Mombasa  as
well,” Heikal said yesterday. The line links Mombasa, East
 Africa ’s biggest port, to Kampala, the Ugandan capital.  Citadel, an Egyptian private-equity company with $8.7
billion in assets under its control, owns 51 percent of RVR,
which manages about 2,000 kilometers (1,243 miles) of railway
lines in  Kenya  and Uganda. Last week, RVR said freight volumes
in the year to June increased to 1.61 million metric tons from
1.53 million tons a year earlier.  “The goal is to see that figure grow to 5 million tons per
year by 2015,” Heikal said. “An efficient rail network could,
in time, bring East African transport costs down by as much as
35 percent due to the operational and fuel efficiency of
shipping by rail.”  New Wagons  Investment in the railway will include refurbishing the
track, buying new rail wagons and locomotives and replacing
information technology systems, Karim Sadek, Citadel’s managing
director for eastern, central and southern Africa, said in the
interview.  Beyond the loan, the balance of investment will be financed
from new equity, existing shareholders and profits from
operations, he said.  The loan was provided by six development-finance
institutions and  Equity Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , Kenya’s biggest lender by
market value. The  African Development Bank  is providing $40
million and  Germany ’s KfW Bankengruppe $32 million. Other
contributors include the  International Finance Corp. ,
Nederlandse Financierings-Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden
NV, Cordiant’s Infrastructure Crisis Fund, and the Belgian
Investment Company for  Developing Countries .  “IFC is the largest financier, with a loan of $32 million,
$10 million already disbursed,” IFC said yesterday in an e-
mailed response to questions. “An additional equity investment
of $10 million is planned, making the total $42 million.”  IFC and its unit Asset Management Co. will have a stake of
about 25 percent in Africa Rail Ltd. Based in the British Virgin
Islands, Africa Rail is controlled by Citadel Capital and will
provide funding to RVR, IFC’s senior infrastructure manager,
Ravi Bugga, said in an interview today.  TransCentury Ltd., based in Nairobi, holds 34 percent of
RVR, and Bomi Holdings of Uganda 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 