-- 
Kenya’s Shilling Declines to One-Month Low on Importer Demand for Dollars

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-08-02T10:19:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/kenyan-shilling-slips-to-1-month-low-on-dollar-demand-inflation.html
Kenya ’s shilling depreciated to the
weakest level in more than a month as oil and food importers
increased dollar demand to meet payments.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy declined 0.4
percent to 91.5 per dollar, the weakest level since June 22,
when it reached a 17-year low of 92.05, by 12:54 p.m. in
Nairobi, Kenya’s capital.  Inflation accelerated for the ninth straight month in July,
climbing 15.53 percent from the year earlier, compared with
14.49 percent in June, the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Food costs are rising
because of a regional drought, while higher  oil prices  are
pushing up transport costs.  “The shilling is under pressure due to increase demand for
the dollar by oil and food importers especially as the rising
inflationary costs starts to bear on their operations,”
Jeremiah Kendagor, acting head of treasury at Nairobi-based
 Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) , said in a phone interview today.  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee unexpectedly
left the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 6.25 percent at
its last meeting on July 27, following two consecutive
increases, saying tighter monetary policy won’t reduce supply-
side price pressures.  Transport costs, which include fuel, jumped 23.62 percent
in July, while food and non-alcoholic beverages advanced 24.02
percent, the statistics bureau said. Housing inflation, which
takes into account water and electricity, grew 12.55 percent.  Kenya Power Ltd., the nation’s sole electricity
distributor, began scheduled outages from July 27 amid a
shortage caused by a lack of infrastructure and machine
breakdowns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  