-- 
Kirin Deal Shows ‘Only Chance’ to Take Advantage of Yen

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-08-03T07:37:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/kirin-s-brazil-deal-shows-only-chance-to-take-advantage-of-strong-yen.html
Kirin Holdings Co.’s purchase of a
stake in Brazil’s second-largest beermaker took Japan’s overseas
acquisitions this year to at least $46 billion as a stronger yen
boosts domestic companies’ buying power abroad.  This year has been the busiest in terms of cross-border
purchases involving Japanese companies since 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The total announced or completed
since Jan. 1 almost equals that for similar deals in 2010 and
2009 combined, the data show.  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  are among
companies making acquisitions abroad, as the yen climbs against
the dollar, having strengthened to a postwar record of 76.25 yen
in March. Kirin made its third-biggest purchase yesterday to
gain a foothold in  Latin America ’s biggest beer market as a
declining and aging population hurts domestic demand.  “Now is the only chance to take advantage of the strong
yen,” Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive officer at Myojo Asset
Management Japan Co., a Tokyo-based hedge fund advisory firm,
said by phone yesterday. “Japanese companies, especially for
companies that rely more on domestic demand, must go outside if
they want to boost profits, as little growth is expected in
their home market.”  U.K.,  Sudan   The Japanese currency has gained 11 percent over the past
year and traded at 77.16 to the dollar as of 3:22 p.m. in  Tokyo ,
from 77.15 yesterday.  Kirin slid 4.9 percent, the most since March 17, to 1,092
yen at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo trading. Minority holders in
Schincariol Participacoes e Representacoes SA said the Japanese
brewer’s stake purchase violates a shareholder agreement.  Takeda’s announced plan to buy closely held Nycomed for 6.3
billion euros ($8.9 billion) is the biggest deal this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Nycomed will bring
operations in China, India and Latin America to reduce Takeda’s
reliance on sales in Japan and the U.S.  Sony Corp. (6758)  and five bidding partners bought Nortel Networks
Corp.’s remaining patents for $4.5 billion in a deal completed
last month.  Trading company  Itochu Corp. (8001)  last month completed its
purchase of the U.K. tire retailer Kwik-Fit Group Ltd. for 637
million pounds ($1.04 billion).  Cigarettes in Sudan  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  plans to boost overseas profit by at
least 10 percent as it said domestic cigarette sales by volume
have plunged since October, when the tobacco tax was raised by a
record 40 percent. The world’s third-largest publicly traded
cigarette maker agreed on July 29 to pay $450 million for Haggar
Cigarette & Tobacco Factory Ltd., which operates in Sudan and
oil-rich South Sudan.  Japan Tobacco has gained 13 percent this year, compared
with an 8 percent drop for the broader Topix index.  “The domestic market is saturated and has a little room to
grow,” said  Mitsuo Shimizu , an analyst at Cosmo Securities Co.
in Tokyo.  The country’s gross domestic product, which contracted in
the three months through March, may shrink at a 2.97 percent
annual pace in the second quarter before returning to growth,
according to the average forecast of 43 economists in a survey
by the government-affiliated Economic Planning Association
released in June.  Brazilian Brewer  The yen’s climb is threatening profits of exporters,
including Sony and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said yesterday it’s overvalued.  The strengthening past 80 yen to the dollar is slowing the
nation’s economic recovery, Toyota President  Akio Toyoda  said
July 19.  The yen’s gains cut first-quarter operating profit at
Japan’s biggest automaker by 50 billion yen ($648 million),
Toyota said yesterday. A 15-yen change in the  exchange rate  over
the past year has “blown off” 300,000 yen, or $3,900, in
profit on a $20,000 car, said Senior Managing Officer Takahiko Ijichi.  Sony, Japan’s largest exporter of consumer electronics, cut
sales projections in part because of the yen’s advance.  Kirin, Japan’s second-largest brewer, yesterday paid 3.95
billion reais ($2.5 billion) to gain a majority stake in
Schincariol,  Brazil ’s second-largest brewer and producer of
Devassa Bem Loura and Nova Schin.  Tropicana, Volvic  The Tokyo-based maker of Kirin Lager, which also sells
Tropicana Juice and Volvic mineral water, has spent more than
$12 billion on overseas acquisitions in the past five years.
Yesterday’s deal is Kirin’s biggest purchase after  Lion Nathan 
and Australian milk and juice producer National Foods, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investing abroad is the most rational way for Japanese
food companies to use their cash,” said  Koichi Ogawa , portfolio
manager at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in Tokyo. “Beer demand is
poised to grow in Brazil.”  Kirin bought all of  Australia ’s second-largest beermaker in
2009 and owns almost half of  San Miguel Brewery Inc. (SMB) , which
produces about 90 percent of the beer consumed in the
Philippines.  Japan’s beer sales last year fell 2.8 percent to 459
million cases, the lowest level since records began in 1992.  Asahi, Toshiba  Asahi Group Holdings Ltd., Japan’s biggest beermaker by
sales volume, last month agreed to buy Permanis, PepsiCo Inc.’s
Malaysia bottler. The beermaker also offered NZ$129 million
($111 million) for  Charlie’s Group Ltd. (CHA) , a New Zealand-based
fruit juice producer.  Asahi, which said in February it may spend 400 billion yen
on acquisitions by 2012,  plans  to complete the A$188 million
($202 million) purchase of P&N Beverages Australia Pty Ltd.’s
water and juice divisions in September.  Toshiba,  Japan ’s biggest maker of nuclear reactors, joined
government-backed fund Innovation Network Corp. of Japan last
month to buy Landis+Gyr AG. The purchase gives Toshiba access to
the Swiss electronic-metering company’s customers in 30 markets
as countries including the U.S. upgrade electrical systems.  “Acquisitions by Japanese companies will continue, as long
as the yen remains strong,” Myojo’s Kikuchi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  