-- 
Kosovo Should Focus on Industry, Trade to Boost Growth, IMF Says

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-08-02T08:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/kosovo-should-focus-on-industry-trade-to-boost-growth-imf-says.html
Kosovo needs to curb the deficit and
rely more on developing trade and competitiveness than on cash
from Kosovars working abroad to control unemployment as the
economy picks up steam, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Growth in gross domestic product should top 5 percent this
year, compared with 4 percent in 2010, the Washington-based IMF
said in a  statement  late yesterday. Still, it was unable to
complete its review of the former Serbian province because the
approved 2011 budget deviated from earlier commitments following
“large” state wage increases.  “For the near term, directors urged disciplined budget
execution and public financial management, including prudent
wage policies, and a careful design and sequencing of social and
capital spending initiatives,” the IMF said. “Over the medium
term, it will be critical to reorient fiscal priorities,
including by raising more revenue from direct taxes.”  Kosovo, which agreed in July 2010 on a 110 million-euro
($156 million) arrangement with the IMF, is embroiled in a trade
dispute with neighboring  Serbia  as it seeks to assert control
over the Serb-dominated north of the country and recoup  tax
revenue  three years after declaring independence.  The predominantly ethnic Albanian nation’s economy is
powered by foreign direct investment, while remittances from ex-
patriot Kosovars make up about 15 percent of GDP.  Kosovo’s financial system has a strong institutional
framework with improved legal capacity and defined property
rights, according to the IMF. To safeguard financial stability,
“passage of the new banking law will be an important step in
that direction,” it said.  Kosovo’s unilateral use of the euro beginning in 2002
“provides a strong monetary anchor,” though it also increases
demands on macroeconomic management.  “A premium should be placed on disciplined fiscal policies
and flexibility to adjust to external shocks,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Pristina via the Ljubljana bureau at 
1006 or  bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  