-- 
N.Y. Gasoline Strengthens Amid Canadian Refinery Maintenance

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-08-02T19:20:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/n-y-gasoline-strengthens-amid-canadian-refinery-maintenance.html
New York gasoline strengthened on
speculation repairs at  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) ’s Dartmouth refinery
and a longer-than-expected turnaround at Korea National Oil
Corp.’s Come by Chance plant will limit fuel imports.  Imperial started early a turnaround at the Nova Scotia
refinery that was planned to begin early this month, after a
July 21 power outage shut the plant. A crude unit and an isomax
unit at the 115,000-barrel-a-day Newfoundland plant are expected
to return to normal operations this week, later than the
expected mid-July start.  The discount for conventional gasoline to be blended with
ethanol, or CBOB, in New York Harbor, narrowed 0.63 cent to 2.50
cents a gallon versus futures traded on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  at 1:57 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Prompt delivery of the fuel fell 2.48 cents to $2.998 a gallon.  Fuel supplies may arrive in Nova Scotia by vessel to
replenish inventories in the province. The Gunhild Kirk, an oil
products tanker, left  Montreal  and is estimated to reach Halifax
by Aug. 4, ship-tracking data from AIS Live Ltd. compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The Acadian is expected to arrive in Halifax tomorrow,
according to the data after loading in Saint John,  New
Brunswick , where Irving Oil Corp. has a refinery.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
Chicago increased 0.25 cent to 3.38 cents a gallon versus
futures. The discount narrowed 1.63 cents yesterday after BP Plc
shut a crude unit at its Whiting, Indiana, refinery.  BP’s  repairs to the unit may last seven to 10 days,
according to two people familiar with the plant’s operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 