-- 
National Basketball Association Sues Players Union as Lockout Continues

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-02T19:12:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/national-basketball-association-sues-players-union-as-lockout-continues.html
The  National Basketball Association 
sued its players association, asking a court to rule that the
league’s lockout of players doesn’t violate antitrust law.  The suit arises from the  union’s  “threatened use of
antitrust litigation to extract more favorable terms and
conditions of employment” in collective-bargaining
negotiations, the NBA said in a complaint filed today in federal
court in  Manhattan .  “The union’s improper threats of antitrust litigation are
having a direct, immediate and harmful effect upon the ability
of the parties to negotiate a new collective bargaining
agreement,” the NBA said in the complaint.  The league said it’s seeking court orders stating that the
lockout doesn’t violate antitrust laws and that federal courts
don’t have jurisdiction to end the lockout. The case was
assigned to U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe.  The NBA and the National Basketball Players Association
made no significant progress yesterday in their first formal
bargaining session on a new labor contract since the lockout
began one month ago.  The NBA also filed an unfair labor practices charge with
the  National Labor Relations Board  today, accusing the players
association of failing to negotiate in good faith, the league
said in a statement. In May, the union filed a complaint against
the league with the NLRB.  Season ‘Jeopardized’  The players’ association will seek the dismissal of both
the lawsuit and the unfair labor practice charge, said William Hunter, the union’s executive director.  The association “has not made any decision to disclaim its
role as the collective bargaining representative of the players
and has been engaged in good faith bargaining with the NBA for
over two years,” Hunter said in a statement. “We urge the NBA
to engage with us at the bargaining table and to use more
productively the short time we have left before the 2011-12
season is seriously jeopardized.”  The union has threatened on more than two dozen occasions
to give up its role as the exclusive bargaining representative
of league players, the NBA said in its complaint.  So-called decertification of the union can be a precursor
to individual antitrust claims against the league, such as those
filed by National Football League players after their labor
talks broke down in March. The football players and team owners
ended a 4 1/2-month lockout last week.  “The NBPA’s threatened ‘disclaimer’ is nothing more than
an impermissible negotiating tactic, which the union incorrectly
believes would enable it to commence an antitrust challenge to
the NBA’s lockout, which the union in turn believes would
strengthen its position in negotiations over a renewed labor
agreement,” the NBA said.  The case is National Basketball Association v. National
Basketball Players Association, 11-cv-05369, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  