-- 
Nations to Stake Out Seabed as Mining on Land Gets Harder, Nautilus Says

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-08-02T08:20:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/nations-to-stake-out-seabed-as-mining-gets-harder-nautilus-says.html
Nautilus Minerals Inc. (NUS) , a Canadian
company planning an underwater mine for copper and gold off the
Papua New Guinea coast, said countries will try to stake out the
seabed as mineral deposits on land become harder to mine.  “Like anything where there’s a geopolitical uncertainty,
people will look to maximize their position,” Tony O’Sullivan,
chief operating officer of Toronto-based Nautilus, said in an
interview in Kalgoorlie, Western  Australia . “If you look at the
area below the  North Pole , there’s still an element of
geopolitical uncertainty, so people are trying to get the
maximum boundaries.”  Russia placed its flag below the North Pole in 2007 as
melting polar ice led to competing claims over access to Arctic
resources. The  International Seabed Authority  granted  China , the
world’s biggest metals consumer, and Russia licenses last month
to search for minerals on the  Pacific Ocean  seabed after gaining
approval from an international regulatory body.  “New copper projects are becoming more remote, are
becoming deeper and are becoming metallurgically more
challenging,” O’Sullivan said. “I don’t think there’s a view
that we’re running out of copper or there’s a scarcity but I
think there’s a view that it’s becoming increasingly difficult
to develop on land.”  The current average grade of copper deposits is 0.6
percent, according forecaster Wood MacKenzie Ltd., dropping from
about 1 percent in 1990, compared with a 6.5 percent copper
grade for Nautilus’ $407 million Solwara project, located at a
depth of 1.6 kilometers (1 mile) in the Bismarck Sea in  Papua
New Guinea .  Oil Technology  The project, 30 percent owned by the Papua New Guinea
government, is expected to produce 1.2 million metric tons of
ore a year starting at the end of 2013. Much of the technology
Nautilus plans to use is already deployed in the oil and gas
industry, O’Sullivan said.  De Beers SA, producer of more than a third of the world’s
rough diamonds, gets gem stones from an underwater mine in
 Namibia .  Prices of copper and gold are trading close to records as
demand from China grows. Ocean miners will have to overcome
concern that excavation will harm the environment and prove too
expensive to make the ventures profitable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  