-- 
Record Yield Premiums Spur Best Yuan Gains in Three Months: China Credit

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-08-03T04:24:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/near-record-yield-premiums-spur-faster-yuan-gains-china-credit.html
The yuan is strengthening at the
fastest pace in three months as Chinese bonds’ near-record yield
premiums over U.S. Treasuries draw funds from abroad.  The currency rose 0.41 percent versus the dollar in the
last two weeks, its best performance since the period ended May
1, according to the  China  Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
difference in yields between China’s five-year notes and
comparable  U.S. government debt  was at an all-time high of 258
basis points as of 12:11 p.m. in Shanghai, while the gap for 10-
year bonds was a record 144 basis points, based on Bloomberg
data going back to June 2005.  The People’s Bank of China raised  interest rates  three
times this year and boosted lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios
on six occasions, exacerbating a cash crunch that’s driving bond
yields higher and making local assets more attractive to
overseas investors. U.S. Treasury yields are falling amid signs
the economic recovery is losing momentum. Gross domestic product
rose 1.6 percent in the second quarter, compared with growth of
9.5 percent in China, official data show.  “U.S. Treasury yields have eased on growth concerns, while
China remains characterized by a strong GDP outlook, still high
inflation and a relatively tight monetary stance,” said
Delphine Arrighi, a Hong Kong-based rates strategist at  Standard
Chartered  Plc. “It is an incentive to bring funds into China,
which is why the central bank monitors this very closely.”  ‘Hot Money’  China’s currency regulator reiterated a pledge last month
to crack down on inflows of “hot money,” while official media
cited central bank adviser Xia Bin as saying the nation should
tax transfers of funds from abroad. A strengthening yuan and
relatively high returns on local assets encourage investors to
seek ways to circumvent  capital controls  and deter overseas
companies from repatriating profits, complicating efforts to
tame the fastest inflation in three years.  Chinese consumer prices rose 6.4 percent in June, while
those in the U.S. increased 3.6 percent, the biggest gains
since 2008.  “The two countries have extremely divergent growth
cycles,” said Ju Wang, a fixed-income strategist for Asian
emerging markets at  Barclays Capital  in Singapore. “The yield
difference is one of the concerns of policy makers and has been
officially cited by China as a reason for not hiking rates too
aggressively because that would increase capital inflows.”  The gap between yields on China’s 10-year notes and
Treasuries has more than doubled since April, while the spread
between five-year notes widened 1.07 percentage points.  Climbing Yields  Ten-year bonds in Shanghai yield 4.03 percent, up 14 basis
points, or 0.14 percentage point, from the end of April,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate on similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries has dropped 70 basis points to 2.59
percent.  The yield on China’s 10-year notes will slip to 3.6 percent
by the end of December, narrowing the gap with Treasuries, as
growth and inflation cool in  Asia ’s biggest economy, according
to Standard Chartered’s Arrighi. The rate reached 4.11 percent
on July 22, the highest level since Feb. 14.  Barclays’ Wang expects the yield to climb to 4.3 percent by
year-end as the authorities are unlikely to cut borrowing costs
or loosen monetary policy anytime soon, she said. HSBC Holdings
Plc also predicts a level of 4.3 percent that will keep China’s
yield advantage over the U.S. intact.  Repo Rate  “The big part of the widening was due to the money-market
crunch in China that pushed 10-year government bond yields
higher, while U.S. rates have been capped by weak growth
momentum,” said Pin Ru Tan, an Asia-Pacific rates strategist at
HSBC in  Hong Kong . “The spread is unlikely to narrow in the
near term as both dynamics will remain in play.”  China’s seven-day repurchase rate, a measure of the
availability of interbank funding, averaged 5.26 percent in July
and 5.90 percent in June, the highest levels in Bloomberg data
going back to January 2004. The rate fell 79 basis points today
to 4.11 percent, according to a daily fixing published by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  Five-year contracts protecting Chinese government debt
against default rose three basis points to 91 basis points
yesterday, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a
government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually in a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Basket of Currencies  The yuan weakened 0.03 percent to 6.4403 per dollar in
 Shanghai , retreating from a 17-year high of 6.4336 reached on
Aug. 1, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
It’s strengthened 2.3 percent this year and HSBC predicts a
year-end  exchange rate  of 6.35. Barclays forecasts a 2.6 percent
advance to 6.28, while  Societe Generale  SA said the currency
will probably gain more than 3 percent.  “As long as the yuan continues its pace of appreciation,
and as  China’s economy  is growing faster than others, then there
are incentives for money to find ways into China,” said Wei Yao,
China economist at Societe Generale in Hong Kong.  The yuan has strengthened against the dollar in all but one
the last 11 months. The central bank said on Aug. 1 it will be
more actively managed against a basket of currencies and market
forces will play a greater role in determining the exchange rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Beijing at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  