-- 
Netanyahu May Accept U.S. Peace Talks Plan

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-08-02T11:13:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/netanyahu-may-accept-u-s-plan-to-counter-palestinian-un-bid.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’sgovernment may be willing to accept a U.S. proposal
to resume peace talks that uses the 1967 borders as a basis of
negotiations in order to counter a Palestinian bid for UN
recognition.  Israel  is prepared to accept a U.S. plan drawn up after
Netanyahu’s visit to  Washington  in May that would include land
exchanges on both sides, an Israeli official said on condition
of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the subject. The
draft calls for Israel and the Palestinians to use the 1967
lines as a starting point in talks, while recognizing that
“demographic facts on the ground” will mean the final result
will differ, Israeli broadcaster Channel Two said yesterday.  Netanyahu may have shifted his stance on the border issue
since rejecting President  Barack Obama ’s call to use the 1967
boundaries as a starting point for negotiations on May 21. Days
later, he conceded that Israel is ready to make “painful
compromises.” He may now be moving further as Palestinians push
ahead with their plan to ask the UN to recognize their statehood
next month. Palestinian chief negotiator  Saeb Erakat  dismissed
the reports as a “public relations” game.  “It’s important for Netanyahu to shore up American support
heading into September,” said  Gerald Steinberg , a political
scientist at Bar Ilan University outside  Tel Aviv . “The U.S.
proposal is a compromise that incorporates Obama’s statement
that negotiations have to be based on the 1967 lines, and
Netanyahu’s concern that the final result has to take into
account demographic changes - meaning the settlements - and
can’t be a return to those lines.”  Talks Stall  Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations stalled in September
after Netanyahu refused to renew a 10-month freeze on
construction in West Bank settlements and Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas said he wouldn’t return to talks unless
a total moratorium was called. The Palestinians seek an
independent state in the West Bank and  Gaza Strip .  “Why can’t we hear what Netanyahu said in his own voice,
why can’t we hear him saying two-state solutions on the 1967
borders and I will stop settlements?” Erakat said. “Without
hearing this, this is another public relations and linguistic
game.”  The draft of the latest proposal reported by Channel Two
also refers to Israel as a Jewish state, a formulation that the
Palestinians have said they won’t explicitly support.  Statehood Bid  The U.S. and the other members of the so-called Middle East
Quartet - the  United Nations , the European Union and  Russia  -
are looking for ways to get the sides talking again before the
Palestinians go ahead with the bid for statehood.  Full UN membership would require approval by the  Security
Council . The Obama administration has said it would use its veto
in the council to block the measure.  Differences that remain between Israelis and Palestinians
are too great for negotiations to restart anytime soon, a U.S.
official said on July 11 after a meeting of the Quartet failed
to agree on a formula for talks.  More than 300,000 Jews live in  West Bank  settlements amid
2.5 million Palestinians on land Israel captured in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN has declared the settlements illegal and
Palestinians have refused to return to peace talks unless Israel
stops construction within the enclaves.  Another 200,000 Israelis live in parts of east  Jerusalem 
that were also captured in 1967. Israel considers those areas
part of its sovereign territory and says it will never give them
up. Palestinians want to make east Jerusalem the capital of a
future independent state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  