-- 
Netanyahu Said to Be Ready for Israel to Negotiate on Basis of 1967 Lines

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-02T00:40:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/netanyahu-said-to-be-ready-for-israel-to-negotiate-on-basis-of-1967-lines.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu would be willing to resume talks with the Palestinians
on the basis of the 1967 boundary line, which would mean pulling
out from West Bank territory, a government official said.  As part of  Israel ’s effort to return to peace talks and 
counter a Palestinian bid for UN recognition, Israel is willing 
to accept a U.S. proposal on borders, the official said on 
condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the subject. 
Netanyahu had publicly rejected U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s 
call to use the 1967 boundaries as a starting point for
negotiations when the two leaders met at the White House May 21.  Obama had called for negotiations that would establish a
Palestinian state based on the line that existed before Israel
captured the West Bank and Jerusalem in the 1967 war with Arab
nations. The proposal included provisions for land swaps that
would allow Israel to keep some large  West Bank  settlements in
return for offsetting land on the Israel side of the 1967 line.  The proposal does not call for a full Israeli return to the
1967 lines, the Israeli official said. Israel’s Channel Two
television reported on Netanyahu's position late yesterday.   In remarks to about 11,000 American Israel Public Affairs
Committee delegates at the Washington Convention Center May 23,
Netanyahu emphasized that “Israel cannot return to the
indefensible 1967 borders.”  Stalled Talks  Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations stalled in September
after Netanyahu refused to renew a 10-month freeze on
construction in the West Bank settlements and Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said he wouldn’t return to
talks unless a total moratorium was called. The Palestinians
seek an independent state in the West Bank and  Gaza Strip .  The U.S. and so-called Middle East Quartet that includes
the U.S., the  United Nations , the European Union and  Russia  are
looking for ways to get the sides talking again before the
Palestinians go ahead with their September bid to ask the UN to
recognize their statehood in a unilateral move.  Differences that remain between Israelis and Palestinians
are too great for negotiations to restart anytime soon, a U.S.
official said on July 11 after a meeting of the Quartet failed
to agree on a formula for talks with which to present the two
sides.  More than 300,000 Jews live in West Bank settlements amid
2.5 million Palestinians on land Israel captured in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN has declared the settlements illegal and
Palestinians have refused to return to peace talks unless Israel
stops construction within the enclaves.  Another 200,000 Israelis live in parts of east  Jerusalem 
that were also captured in 1967. Israel considers those areas
part of its sovereign territory and says it will never give them
up. Palestinians want to make east Jerusalem the capital of a
future independent state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  