-- 
New Orleans Police Shot Civilians, Covered Up Crime, Prosecutor Tells Jury

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-08-02T18:11:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/new-orleans-police-shot-civilians-covered-up-crime-prosecutor-tells-jury.html
Four  New Orleans  police officers
opened fire on unarmed civilians a week after Hurricane Katrina
devastated the city and conspired with others to cover up their
actions, a federal prosecutor told jurors at the end of trial.  The defendants claimed they were responding to gunfire and
that shooting victims may have been armed, prosecutor Theodore
Carter, said in his closing argument today in federal court in
New Orleans.  “We have actual witnesses who told you there were no
guns,” Carter said. “We have actual shooters who told you
there were no guns.”  One of the defendants acknowledged at the trial that there
was a cover-up, Carter said.  The four officers are accused of firing on a family on the
east side of the Danziger Bridge on Sept. 4, 2005, killing a 17-
year-old and wounding four other people.  On the west side of the bridge, one of the officers shot
Ronald Madison, a 40-year-old man with mental disabilities, and
another stomped and kicked him after he was wounded, according
to an indictment issued last year. Madison died at the scene,
the U.S.  said .  Arthur “Archie” Kaufman, a homicide detective, allegedly
joined the officers in a conspiracy to cover up what happened at
the bridge and to make the shootings appear justified. Kaufman,
charged with 10 counts including obstruction of justice and
fabrication of evidence, is on trial with the other officers.  Accused Officers  New Orleans officers Kenneth Bowen, Robert Gisevius, Robert
Faulcon and Anthony Villavaso are charged with causing the death
of the 17-year-old, James Brissette. The U.S. alleges Faulcon
shot Madison and Bowen stomped on him.  A sixth officer indicted with Kaufman and the others,
Gerard Dugue, was also charged with obstruction of justice. His
trial is scheduled for September.  “This wasn’t a gunfight -- this was carnage,” government
lawyer Carter said. “The only thing James Brissette pointed at
these officers was his back,” he said “The only thing Ronald
Madison pointed at defendant Faulcon was his back.”  Carter said Kaufman was responsible for a gun’s being
planted into evidence. Another officer, who pleaded guilty to
participating in a cover-up, said Kaufman retrieved the gun from
his garage, Carter told the jury.  Kaufman’s lawyer, Stephen  London , said the detective wasn’t
involved in a cover-up. Dugue, the other homicide investigator,
was responsible for the final report on the shootings, the
attorney said in his closing arguments.  Another Officer  Another officer put Kaufman’s notes in the final report
while the defendant was out of town, London said.  Kaufman wasn’t responsible for a planted gun, he said.
Officers in a conversation wiretapped by the government never
mentioned a gun from Kaufman’s house being used as part of a
cover-up, he said.  Kaufman reported that two shooting victims said that Jose
Holmes, a civilian who was injured on the bridge, fired a gun,
London said. This was supported by trial testimony from a nurse
who treated Holmes, he said.  Carter, the prosecutor, said in his closing that the nurse
misunderstood.  The shootings took place one week after  Hurricane Katrina 
flooded most of New Orleans -- and one day after stranded
evacuees had been airlifted or bused to safety. The policemen
charged were responding to police radio reports of fellow
officers in danger.  False Charges  According to the indictment, the defendants conspired to
“cover up what happened on the bridge” by filing charges
against two victims of their conspiracy -- Holmes and Lance
Madison, brother of Ronald Madison.  Five other New Orleans police officers pleaded guilty to
federal charges in connection with the alleged cover-up.  Faulcon is sorry for his role in Madison’s death, his
lawyer, Paul Fleming, told the jury.  The officers were responding to a distress call from a
policewoman, he said.  An officer said over her radio, “There they are. They’re
getting away,” the lawyer said, quoting policewoman Jennifer
Dupre.  “I am not in any way, shape or form blaming Mr. Madison
for what happened,” Fleming said. Faulcon’s police training
convinced him “that Mr. Madison was about to shoot him,” he
said. The decision to shoot was reasonable and justifiable, he
said.  Fatal Shooting  “Robert Faulcon didn’t kill James Brissette,” he said.
Another officer, who pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice
and isn’t on trial, shot Brissette, Fleming said.  Nor did Faulcon admit to a cover-up as the prosecutor said,
the defense lawyer told the jury. The government lawyer who
cross-examined him “tripped him, she got him to say things he
didn’t mean.”  Faulcon, the only one of the five defendants to testify at
the trial, said he didn’t know which civilians were armed.  “If I would have known those people didn’t have weapons, I
wouldn’t have fired my weapon,” he said.  Faulcon testified during cross-examination by prosecutor
Barbara Bernstein that reports by Kaufman on the shootings were
false.  “You agree all those reports were false?” Bernstein
asked.  “Yes,” Faulcon replied.  “You agree there was a cover-up in this case,” she asked.  “Based on what I know now, yes,” he answered.  The case is U.S. v. Bowen, 2:10-cr-00204, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans
at   allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  