-- 
News Corp.’s Sun Tabloid Says Readers Details Stolen by Hacker

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-08-02T12:14:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/news-corp-s-sun-tabloid-says-readers-details-stolen-by-hacker.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit told about 800
readers of its Sun tabloid that computer hackers may have stolen
their home addresses, phone numbers and other personal details
during an attack on the newspaper’s website.  News International is working with police on the matter,
which affected readers who submitted information online for
contests and polls sponsored by the newspaper. Police in
London charged British teenager Jake Davis last week with
attacking the Sun’s website and redirecting visitors to a false
article saying News Corp. Chairman and Chief Executive Rupert Murdoch had died.  “We take customer data extremely seriously and are working
with the relevant authorities to resolve this matter,” Daisy Dunlop, a spokeswoman for London-based News International, said
today in a phone interview. “We are directly contacting any
customer affected by this.”  Davis, from the Shetland Islands in  Scotland , was released
on bail yesterday. The 18-year-old was arrested last week and
charged with conspiring to carry out a so-called denial of
service attack on computers at the U.K.’s Serious Organised
Crime Agency. Davis may also be the spokesman for the hacking
groups Anonymous and LulzSec, which have claimed credit for
breaking into websites at  Sony Corp. (6758)  and the  U.S. Senate , police
said.  The investigation of the attack on the Sun’s website comes
as U.K. police and British lawmakers probe the extent of phone-
hacking by News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid, which the
company shuttered in response to the scandal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  