-- 
Nice Systems Opens Singapore Office to Spur Sales Growth in Asia

-- B y   C h i e n   M i   W o n g   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-02T11:22:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/nice-systems-opens-singapore-office-to-spur-sales-growth-in-asia.html
Nice Systems Ltd. (NICE) , a maker of digital
surveillance and monitoring systems, opened its Asian
headquarters in Singapore today to boost sales in its fastest
growing region, Chief Executive Officer Zeevi Bregman said.  “Asia is our fastest growing region and we believe it can
potentially be much larger,” Bregman said in an interview
today, declining to provide specific targets. “Singapore
provides good accessibility to the markets.”  Nice, which previously had its main Asian office in  Hong
Kong , moved to Singapore because of its strategic location
between  India  and Australia, lower costs and a more diverse
talent pool, Bregman said. Last week, the Ra’anana, Israel-
based company reported higher profit and raised its earnings
forecast, citing increased demand for its products in  Asia .  Israeli companies are looking to increase sales in fast-
growing economies such as  Brazil , India and  China  to make up for
sluggish growth in the U.S. and  Europe .  On July 27, Nice said second-quarter net income rose 22
percent to $15.5 million from a year earlier. The company raised
its 2011 outlook for adjusted earnings per share to a range of
$2 to $2.08 from between $1.98 and $2.07 before.  On the second-quarter conference call, Bregman noted
“remarkable growth” in the Asia Pacific, saying that expansion
at the start of last year was paying off as the company’s
products against financial crime become more relevant in the
region. Overall results in the Asia Pacific are still small and
“can be a bit lumpy going forward,” Bregman said at the time.  Asian Orders  China’s Tianjin Metro bought Nice’s video security system
in May and its technology was used to secure the Beijing
Olympics. Overall, Asia Pacific accounted for 12 percent of the
company sales of $196.7 million in the second quarter and about
11 percent of total 2010 sales.  Nice competitor  Verint Systems Inc. (VRNT)  is also seeing sales
grow in China. On July 28, Verint said China CITIC Bank Corp.
bought its workforce management system.  Nice dropped 1.2 percent to 11,880 shekels at 2:16 p.m. in
Tel Aviv. The shares have jumped 8.1 percent in the past 12
months compared with a 5 percent gain for the benchmark TA-25
index. The shares trade at 16 times estimated 2011 earnings,
compared with 11 times for the TA-25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chien Mi Wong in Singapore at 
 cwong303@bloomberg.net 
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  