-- 
Nigerian Cocoa Output Threatened by Aging Trees, Institute and Farmers Say

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-08-02T14:59:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/nigerian-cocoa-output-threatened-by-aging-trees-institute-says.html
Aging trees will cause a drop in
cocoa output in  Nigeria , the world’s fourth-biggest producer of
the chocolate ingredient, a researcher said.  The age of the trees has created a “wide yield gap,”
Chris Okafor, of the International  Institute  of Tropical
Agriculture, said by phone from Akure in southwestern Nigeria.  Nigerian farmers are reluctant to replace aging trees
because it can take 10 years for soils to recover sufficiently
to be able to support new plantings, David Onyenweaku, an 84-
year-old farmer, said by phone today from Umuahia in
southeastern Nigeria.  “I started planting cocoa in the 1950s and some of the
trees I planted then are still standing,” Onyenweaku said. The
trees are still producing beans, “but not much,” he said.  The farmers have to wait so long before replanting their
land because of “poor soil nutrient management,” said Okafor,
who manages the Nigerian sustainable tree crops program at the
institute in Ibadan, southwestern Nigeria. Soil is seriously
depleted and farmers aren’t using fertilizers, “which tells on
the yield,” he said.  While Nigeria has high-yielding varieties of cocoa trees,
farmers aren’t cultivating them, Okafor said. The  Cocoa Research
Institute of Nigeria , also based in Ibadan, has reported
varieties that can yield up to 2,000 kilograms (4,409 pounds) a
hectare (2.47 acres), while the average level achieved by
farmers is 450 kilograms a hectare, he said.  Foreign Exchange Earner  Nigeria ranks behind the  Ivory Coast ,  Ghana  and  Indonesia 
as the world’s largest cocoa producer, according to the website
of the  International Cocoa Organization . Cocoa-bean exports from
Nigeria rose to 200,333 metric tons in 2010, from 195,885 tons a
year earlier, according to figures from the Federal Produce
Inspection Services, a government agency that supervises cocoa
exports. Shipments of the beans represent the second-biggest
foreign exchange earner for the country,  Africa ’s leading oil
producer, according to government figures.  A conference will be held Aug. 4 to 5 in Abuja, Nigeria’s
capital, to discuss how the private and public sectors can raise
output, Okafor said. The event was organized by the  agriculture
ministry , the Dutch Sustainable Trade  Initiative  and the United
Nations Development Program, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 nvwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  