-- 
Norway Terror Stigmatizes Islam Haters as Labor’s Appeal at Decade High

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-08-02T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/norway-hate-attacks-make-anti-islam-taboo-cause-as-labor-surges.html
Anders Behring Breivik’s efforts to
galvanize anti-Islam sentiment in  Norway  after last month’s hate
killings have given the ruling party he sought to destroy its
biggest tailwind in more than a decade.  Support for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg’s  Labor Party ,
targeted by Breivik in the July 22 bombing and shootings that
left 77 dead, soared to more than 40 percent, two polls showed
this week. If a vote were held today, that would be the best
result since the 1985 election. Approval of Stoltenberg’s
handling of the crisis is at more than 90 percent, polls show.  “It’s the first time in Norway that the popularity rating
of an elected politician is higher than that of the King,” said
Frank Aarebrot, a politics professor at the University of
Bergen, in a phone interview. Since the attacks, Labor’s
policies mean it enjoys “the strongest legitimacy. My guess is
that the effect will last a couple of years.”  Breivik’s 1,500-page manifesto, published a few hours
before his killing spree, railed against the “Islamization” of
Norway and  Europe , a trend he said he would try to halt through
his terror acts. Yet the  anti-immigration Progress Party  that
Breivik had sought to champion now faces a backlash as a key
campaigning point is stigmatized ahead of local elections on
Sept. 12. That’s left the group, Parliament’s second-biggest,
with an identity crisis.  ‘Low Profile’  “They will try to keep a low profile on immigration,
immigrants, threats from the Muslims,” Anders Todal Jenssen, a
political science professor at the Norwegian University of
Science and Technology in Trondheim, said by phone. Without the
attacks “they would have focused on immigration as a very
important issue,” he said.  Backing for Labor, which was re-elected in 2009 on pledges
to improve welfare without raising taxes, surged 11 percentage
points in the month through July 30 to 41.7 percent, the highest
result since September 1998, according to a Synovate poll. A TNS
Gallup poll for TV2 showed a 9.2 point rise in support for Labor
to 40.5 percent, a 12-year high. The opposition Conservatives
slipped almost five points to 23.7 percent in the Synovate poll,
while the Progress Party, of which Breivik was a member from
1999 to 2004, dropped three points to 16.5 percent.  Since the killings, more Norwegians say they now embrace
multiculturalism, according to an Aug. 1 InFact AS poll
published by  Verdens Gang . Twenty-six percent of those
questioned said they were more positive toward a multi-ethnic
Norway than before the attacks. Nine percent were more negative
and 49 percent said they hadn’t changed their opinion.  ‘Lost Its Legitimacy’  “The anti-Islam argument has lost its legitimacy,” said
Johannes Bergh, a political scientist at the Institute for
Social Research in Oslo, in a phone interview. “You can’t make
the type of arguments that the Progress Party has been making in
terms of Islam being a danger to society or a threat to
Norwegian culture. You just can’t say that anymore.”  The prime minister’s party is now poised to win next
month’s local elections. Polls before July 22 had shown it was
set to lose.  Stoltenberg isn’t the first leader to see his approval
ratings rise following attacks against his citizens. Support for
former U.S. President  George W. Bush  jumped to 90 percent after
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon, according to  Gallup . Backing later fell below 30
percent at the end of his second term.  Stoltenberg has won admiration from voters for avoiding
traps that risk polarizing the debate in Norway. He has even
urged lawmakers and media not to vilify anti-immigration
policies.  ‘Witch Hunt’  “We should not start a witch hunt against those opinions
that we don’t agree with,” he told reporters on Aug. 1.  Bush, by contrast, in 2001 pledged to hunt down those
responsible for the September attacks, and said he wanted Osama bin Laden “dead or alive.”  Siv Jensen, who as the leader of Norway’s Progress Party
has warned of “sneak-Islamization,” said Breivik’s attacks
shouldn’t silence the immigration debate.  “In the time that lies ahead, we need even more freedom of
expression,” Jensen said in an Aug. 1 interview. “It is
important to me that we all can combine freedom of expression
with dignity and I think we will manage that, even if it is a
new terrain for us.”  Still, the party may need to modify its tone in the debate,
Jensen told reporters this week.  Immigration  “We’ve all changed our behavior and we won’t be the same
as before,” Jensen said.  Before Breivik’s attacks, the Progress Party had risen in
popularity as voters, like their Nordic peers in  Sweden , Denmark
and  Finland , reacted to a rising intake of immigrants.  Norway received the second-highest number of new asylum-
seekers per inhabitant after Sweden last year, according to a
survey of 44 industrialized nations by the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees. Non-western immigrants and their
children last year accounted for 9.4 percent of  Norway’s 
population. In  Germany , non-western immigrants made up 6
percent, data from the  national statistics offices  of each
country show.  Voters upset with this trend should be free to say so,
Stoltenberg told reporters on July 27.  “We have to be very clear to distinguish between extreme
views, which are completely legal and legitimate,” he said.
“What is not legitimate is to try to implement those extreme
views by using violence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  