-- 
NYSE Profit Declines 16%, Beats Forecast

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-08-02T20:48:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/nyse-profit-declines-16-beats-forecast.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the U.S. exchange
company that  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  is planning to buy, declined in
 New York  trading after saying second-quarter profit fell on
lower revenue from European derivatives and U.S. equity trading.  Net income decreased 16 percent to $154 million from $184
million a year earlier, the New York-based company said today in
a statement. Excluding some items, earnings dropped to 61 cents
a share, exceeding the 60-cent average estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The New York Stock Exchange operator’s planned purchase by
Deutsche Boerse would create the world’s largest exchange
operator, expanding NYSE Euronext’s revenue from European
derivatives. Some of NYSE Euronext’s sales depend on the volume
of shares that change hands each day, and trading on U.S.
exchanges last quarter fell 9.6 percent from the first quarter,
according to the daily average compiled by Bloomberg.  It “was a modestly disappointing quarter for NYSE
Euronext,” Patrick O’Shaughnessy, a Chicago-based analyst with
Raymond James Financial Inc., wrote in a note. “We had expected
more momentum from the firm’s data center initiative while
operating expenses continue to creep up.”  NYSE Euronext shares fell 4.9 percent to $31.40 at 4 p.m.
in New York, the lowest level since Jan. 11. The stock had
declined 6 percent since the company confirmed in February that
it’s in talks about a merger with  Deutsche Boerse . That drop
compared with a 1.3 percent advance for the Bloomberg World
Exchanges Index.  Derivatives Unit  Net revenue from the company’s derivatives unit, which
accounted for about 32 percent of the total, fell 5.8 percent to
$213 million. Revenue from equity trading and listings increased
1.9 percent to $327 million, according to today’s statement.  Fixed operating expenses climbed 2.9 percent to $419
million, according to the statement today. Chief Financial
Officer Michael Getlzeiler said today he is “confident” the
company can reach its goal of costs of less than $1.65 billion
for the full year on a constant dollar basis.  NYSE Amex sold almost 53 percent of its options market to
seven brokers, winning regulatory approval for the plan last
quarter.  “With the Amex deal now closed, NYSE Euronext will share
profits from the Amex options business with its partners,” Rich Repetto, a New York-based analyst with Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP, wrote in a July 6 note.  First Phase  The European Commission sent a survey last month with 165
questions to Deutsche Boerse rivals and customers, asking if the
deal with NYSE Euronext would reduce competition and what effect
it would have on access to market data. The EU’s antitrust
agency set the Aug. 4 deadline to rule on the deal, and NYSE
Euronext Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  said today on
a conference call that this was part of the first phase of the
European regulators’ review.  “We expect to be notified by the competition authorities
later this week that we will embark on a phase-two process,”
Niederauer said on the call today. “My guess is that their
focus will be on what conditions can be placed on us, not how to
make or break the deal,” he added.  Deutsche Boerse, in  Frankfurt , reported last week that
second-quarter profit rose 11 percent as it cut costs, while
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , NYSE Euronext’s smaller rival, posted
quarterly earnings that beat analyst estimates, as acquisitions
and listings services helped boost revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  