-- 
Obama Bonds Proved World Beaters as Congress Played Chicken With U.S. Debt

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-03T00:45:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/obama-bonds-proved-world-beaters-as-congress-played-chicken-with-u-s-debt.html
For all the anxiety among politicians
and their constituents over playing chicken with the debt
ceiling and the prospect of the first-ever downgrade of  U.S.
debt , the people with the most at stake made more money buying
 Treasury securities  in July than any month this year. Actually,
they made a fortune, or $183,000 for every $10 million invested.  While commentators bemoaned America’s lost respect around
the world, investors from  Argentina  to  New Zealand  snapped up
Uncle Sam’s bonds in the $9.34 trillion market, driving yields
on 10-year notes -- a benchmark for everything from  mortgage
rates  to corporate debt -- to the lowest levels since November.
 U.S. government debt  returned 1.83 percent in July, about three
times more than the rest of the global sovereign bond market,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “The  bond market  saw through the debate and saw that it
would have to be resolved,” said Mark MacQueen, a partner and
money manager at Austin, Texas-based Sage Advisory Services,
which oversees $9.5 billion. “The market expected a resolution,
which is less spending, hitting future growth, which is not good
for stocks but is good for bonds.”  The Senate voted yesterday to raise the nation’s debt
ceiling, currently $14.3 trillion, for the  79th  time since 1960,
before missing a payment. As a bonus to bond investors, the
government will reduce spending by $2.4 trillion or more.  Target Rate  While an increase in the borrowing limit averts a default,
it may not be enough to save the U.S.’s top AAA credit rating.
Bond yields show investors are also concerned that the reduction
in outlays by the government will weigh on growth at a time when
reports on everything from manufacturing to jobs show the
economy is weakening.  Interest-rate futures signal traders are pushing back
expectations for when the  Federal Reserve  raises its target for
overnight loans between banks to 2013. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index lost 2.03 percent in July, the worst performance since
August 2010.  “Regardless of the rating, Treasuries are going to be seen
as the safe haven,” said Matthew Freund, a senior vice
president at USAA Investment Management Co. in  San Antonio ,
where he helps oversee about $50 billion in mutual fund assets.
“The U.S. remains one of the strongest, most dynamic economies
in the world.”  The benchmark 10-year Treasury note’s yield fell as low as
2.6 percent yesterday, down from 3.014 percent on July 22, when
President  Barack Obama  complained that he had been “left at the
altar” by Republicans who walked away from talks to avoid a
default.  Yield History  The yield is below the 4.05 percent average over the past
decade and the average of 5.48 percent when the U.S. was running
a  budget surplus  from 1998 through 2001.  Treasuries yield about 0.7 percentage point less than the
rest of the world’s sovereign debt markets, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show. The difference has expanded from
0.15 percentage point in January and is the most since 1993,
when the data began. July’s returns for Treasuries compare with
0.62 percent for the rest of the world.  In auctions of two-, five- and seven-year notes last week
totaling $99 billion, indirect bidders, a class of investors
that includes international central banks, bought 35 percent of
the bonds, up from 30 percent in the June sales.  Saudi Arabia  is
pumping oil profits into U.S. bonds even as  China , the biggest
foreign holder of Treasuries, slows purchases.  ‘Highest Quality Asset’  The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency’s holdings of foreign
securities rose 12 percent this year to a record 1.32 trillion
riyals ($350 billion) as of June 30, central bank data show.
HSBC Holdings Plc estimates a “large proportion” of those
investments are in Treasuries. China’s ownership was $1.16
trillion as of May 31, unchanged from the end of 2010, U.S.
government data show.  “The bond market wasn’t viewing this as that big of an
issue and the Treasury is still the highest quality asset on the
globe,” said  Hank Smith , the chief investment officer in
Philadelphia at Haverford Trust Co., which oversees $6.5
billion.  The bond market has a long history of accurately predicting
the future. Economists use the relationship between short- and
long-term yields to forecast the nation’s growth. Three-month
bill rates have topped 10-year note yields eight times since
1960, with recessions following in six of those cases. There
hasn’t been a recession that wasn’t preceded by an inverted
yield curve in that period.  S&P Indications  The performance of the bond market also suggests that
investors aren’t worried about the U.S. having its credit rating
cut and seeing borrowing costs rise.  Standard & Poor’s  indicated last week that anything less
than a reduction of $4 trillion in spending would jeopardize the
U.S.’s AAA. “A grand bargain of that nature would signal the
seriousness of policy makers to address the fiscal situation in
the U.S.,”  John Chambers , chairman of S&P’s sovereign rating
committee, said in a video interview distributed by the New
York-based firm on July 28.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
AAA credit ratings for the U.S. while warning that the ratings
could be downgraded if lawmakers fail to enact debt reduction
measures and the economy weakens.  ‘Positive Step’  The debt-limit compromise “is a positive step toward
reducing the future path of the deficit and the debt levels,”
said  Steven Hess , senior credit officer at Moody’s in  New York .
“We do think more needs to be done to ensure a reduction in the
debt-to-gross-domestic-product ratio, for example, going
forward.”  A decision on the rating may be made within two years, or
“considerably sooner,” according to Hess. Fitch’s  David Riley ,
the London-based head of sovereign ratings, said that while the
rating may be cut in the medium term, its risks in the near-term
“are not high."  If the U.S. was cut by S&P or Moody’s for the first time in
history, disruptions would be unlikely in the Treasury market,
said Freund of USAA Investment. JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimates
that funds holding Treasuries may only need to sell as much as
$40 billion of the debt in a downgrade.  “The difference between AA+ and AA and AAA really is going
to be very modest outside of bragging rights,” Freund said. “I
feel better about Treasuries in the long run if we address the
problems now rather than just kicking the can down the road.”  Government Spending  Prospects for lower expenditures by the government come as
signs emerge that the economy is faltering with unemployment
above 9 percent. Government spending accounts for about 25
percent of GDP, a level exceeded only by three years in the
1940s, according to Bianco Research LLC in  Chicago .  The Institute for Supply Management said Aug. 1 that its
factory index slumped to 50.9 for July, the lowest since July
2009, from 55.3 a month earlier. Figures less than 50 signal
contraction, and the July index was lower than the most
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  “With these numbers that are coming in, we could we be
looking at another recession and if so, should we be buying
bonds,” said Laura LaRosa, director of fixed income at
Philadelphia-based Glenmede, which oversees $20 billion. “When
you have slow growth you’re a little bit closer to recession.
That makes everybody very concerned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  