-- 
Debt Talks Survived Breakdowns With Geithner Set to Calm Markets

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-08-02T04:42:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/obama-debt-talks-survived-breakdowns-with-geithner-ready-to-calm-markets.html
In the Oval Office two days before a
threatened debt default, President  Barack Obama  and his advisers
confronted a question they’d been striving to avoid: what should
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  say, and when, to calm
financial markets if a tentative agreement imploded?  Obama had just hung up with Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  on July 31 and learned they were at another impasse.
This time it was over defense spending cuts, and Boehner wasn’t
sure he could get enough Republican votes to pass the plan.  It was the third time in as many weeks that the talks stood
on the brink of collapse, according to Democratic and Republican
officials who gave accounts of the discussions on condition of
anonymity. After discussing a potential Geithner message to the
markets, Obama called Boehner at 8:15 p.m. to learn where things
stood and the speaker interrupted him to offer congratulations.  They had a deal.  The president’s surprise television appearance later that
night announcing an agreement to slice $2.4 trillion in deficit
spending and lift the $14.3 debt ceiling by $2.1 trillion to
avert an Aug. 2 default ended a showdown that brought the
ideological differences between the parties into stark relief
and the nation to the cusp of a financial calamity.  Managing Divides  It tested the leadership and mettle of Obama’s two-year-old
presidency and Boehner’s eight-month-old speakership. They each
had to manage divides within their parties. Boehner had to build
credibility with his Tea Party freshmen, who resisted
compromise, while Obama had to bring along a caucus reshaped by
the loss of centrist Democrats in the 2010 midterms. Neither
emerged unscathed politically as partisan activists on both
sides voiced frustration with the final package.  Ultimately, the stalemate was resolved after the more
seasoned, bipartisan Senate leadership fully engaged. Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, launched
the final chapter of negotiations with a reassuring signal to
the markets, a proposal to give Obama unilateral authority to
lift the debt ceiling if a larger agreement fell apart.  Throughout the process, the markets avoided tumult. Yields
on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes fluctuated between 3.18
percent and 2.72 percent during the past two months. That
compares with an average of 4.03 percent since 2001.  The path toward the final agreement began with the collapse
of the private negotiations between Obama and Boehner over a
broader deal that would have included changes in entitlements
and the  tax code .  ‘Left at the Altar’  On July 22, with no warning to Obama or his staff, Boehner
announced the end of their negotiations, leaving Obama to
complain publicly of being “left at the altar.”  According to Boehner, after agreeing to consider at least
$800 billion in new revenue, Obama suddenly pushed for about
$400 billion more after a bipartisan Senate deal was unveiled
with more sources of revenue.  On July 23, Obama summoned Boehner, McConnell and
Democratic Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  and House
Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California  to the White House
for a meeting in which he urged the congressional leaders to
find a resolution to avoid a default that could harm the economy
and diminish investor confidence in the U.S. for decades,
according to Democratic officials familiar with the talks.  Meeting at Capitol  Later, the four congressional leaders met in Boehner’s
Capitol office suite and began discussing a possible compromise.
They weighed a two-step process that would cut spending and
boost the debt limit slightly less, followed by creation of a
bipartisan congressional committee to enact further deficit
reductions as a condition tied to future debt ceiling increases.  The concept had enough support that they ran it by the
White House, said officials in both parties, and Obama raised a
red flag. He objected to tying the debt-limit extension to
future  deficit reduction ; he wanted enough borrowing authority
to last through the November 2012 election.  Negotiations continued through the weekend, and it became
clear that Boehner would fall short of his own goal of having a
plan to present to rank-and-file Republicans by the afternoon of
July 24 -- a development that sent Asian shares and U.S. equity
futures and Treasuries falling while gold rose to a record high
amid concerns of a default.  Boehner’s Plan  On July 25, Boehner presented a plan to his caucus that he
said would cut deficit spending by almost $3 trillion and raise
the debt ceiling by a similar amount in two phases. The second
instalment would be conditioned on $1.8 trillion in cuts and a
vote on that would come in early 2012, a direct challenge to
Obama’s demand that the debt ceiling increase extend to 2013.  Obama responded with a prime-time television address from
the East Room of the White House, in which he accused
Republicans of playing a “dangerous game we’ve never played
before” with the debt ceiling and urged Americans to pressure
Congress to compromise by calling their representatives.  Boehner, in a televised rebuttal from  Capitol Hill , accused
the president of seeking “a blank check” to continue
 government spending  that is “sapping the drive of our people.”  The public responded by jamming Capitol Hill telephone
lines. Many wanted Washington reach a compromise, while others
urged House members to hold firm, according to aides and
lawmakers.  On July 26, Boehner and his leadership team urged the
caucus to rally behind his proposal and to give him maximum
negotiation leverage in the final negotiations, according to
Republican officials.  CBO Setback  Boehner suffered a setback when the  Congressional Budget
Office  released an analysis showing the spending cuts it
contained were smaller than advertised -- $850 billion rather
than $1.2 trillion over a decade.  Fiscally conservative and Tea Party-allied groups and
lawmakers were in revolt, complaining it wouldn’t do enough to
rein in the debt, particularly because it lacked language
advancing a balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution.  Boehner was forced to retreat and rewrite the proposal,
inserting a provision that made action on the balanced budget
amendment a prerequisite for a debt ceiling increase. It passed
the House 218-210 on a party-line vote on July 29.  Within hours, the Senate scuttled it on a vote of 59-41.
That same night, Obama picked up the phone and called Boehner,
asking him what would come next and suggesting they meet. The
following day, the House defeated Reid’s alternative debt-
ceiling plan and Biden phoned McConnell, kicking negotiations
into high gear, according to Democratic and Republican
officials.  ‘Fully Engaged’  “We are now fully engaged, the speaker and I, with the one
person in America out of 307 billion people who can sign a bill
into law,” McConnell told reporters. “I’m confident and
optimistic that we’re going to get an agreement in the very near
future and resolve this crisis in the best interests of the
American people.”  As the competing votes unfolded in the House and Senate,
Reid was in private talks with the White House on an enforcement
mechanism, or trigger, that could guarantee the deficit
reductions Republicans wanted, without conditioning the increase
in the debt ceiling on those savings.  For days, Reid, McConnell, Boehner, Pelosi and White House
aides went through about 50 versions of the so-called trigger,
according to Democratic officials familiar with the talks. As
they settled on a plan to force $1.2 trillion in automatic
spending cuts if a proposed 12-member, bipartisan committee
failed to make a final recommendation, a new problem emerged.  Defense Cuts  On July 30, Obama, Reid and Pelosi accepted the fact that
they couldn’t force new revenue into the package and decided
instead to protect domestic programs by ensuring some cuts would
hit the Defense Department, according to Democratic officials.  Biden informed McConnell and Boehner that the automatic
cuts must break 50-50 between defense and non-defense cuts and
that his position was non-negotiable. Obama told them the same
thing the next morning. That evening, the Republicans pushed
back, arguing the proposal would lead to unacceptably deep
spending reductions in defense, according to Democratic and
Republican officials.  The next day, Boehner informed the president that the
agreement was vulnerable to collapse.  McConnell then reached back to an idea floated during
Biden’s deficit-reduction negotiations with a bipartisan group
of senators in the spring. He proposed switching the breakdown
to a 50-50 split between security and non-security programs,
which would provide some protection to the Pentagon by cutting
more from such programs as foreign aid or  homeland security , the
officials said.  The House voted 269-161 to pass the plan yesterday. The
Senate is poised to follow suit today, clearing the way for
Obama’s signature in the last hours before the government
defaults.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  