-- 
Obama Debt Deal Shakes Supporters Heading Into Election

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-08-02T17:40:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/obama-debt-deal-shakes-trust-of-supporters-heading-into-election-campaign.html
Democratic lawmakers are openly
questioning whether they can trust President  Barack Obama  to cut
future deals with Republicans, while disappointment among party
activists is raising doubts about their investment in his 2012
re-election campaign.  “Come on, got any other jokes?” cracked Representative
Peter DeFazio, an Oregon Democrat, when asked if Obama bargained
hard in negotiations with congressional Republicans.  After Obama backed off his demand for new revenue in the
deal that passed the House last night to raise the debt ceiling
and cut the deficit, several lawmakers said they don’t know
whether he can be counted on to stand firm on raising taxes on
the wealthy and protecting programs such as Medicare.  “There was caving this time,” said Representative Eliot Engel, a New York Democrat. “Why don’t you think there would be
caving next time?”  As the Senate approved the compromise today with a 74-26
vote, the months-long debate that brought the government to the
brink of a default on its obligations took a political toll on
both parties. The Republican base isn’t cheering every element
of the agreement, with 66 of the party’s lawmakers voting
against the deal in the House. The decision by  House Republicans 
to stage a showdown didn’t sit well with the public, either.  In a July 20-24  Pew Research Center poll , 66 percent of
respondents disapproved of the job Republican leaders in
Congress are doing, while 25 percent approved. By comparison, 48
percent disapproved how Obama is handling his job and 44 percent
approved.  Party Support  Still, Republican lawmakers yesterday generally applauded
House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, and Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, for
negotiating the best deal they could.  The Obama administration, Engel said, takes congressional
Democrats for granted. “They figure that House Democrats are in
the minority, so we’re just around from the ride,” he said.  The loss of confidence in Obama by Democrats in Congress
comes after the president backed off a series of demands during
negotiations, clearing the way for a vote to raise the $14.3
trillion debt ceiling.  At various points, Obama insisted that raising the debt
ceiling and cutting the deficit not be linked and that new
revenue must be a part of a deal -- both positions he abandoned
when Republicans refused to comply. Obama also surprised his
allies when he put Social Security and Medicare temporarily on
the table.  Next Round  The timing of the party dissension is important because it
may diminish the president’s leverage as Congress begins
negotiating cuts in entitlements and changes in the  tax code .  As part of the package that initially cuts $900 billion
from the budget, Congress will create a bipartisan 12-member
committee that is charged with delivering recommendations for an
additional $1.5 trillion in spending reductions by November.  In addition, a fractured or less enthusiastic base may
weaken Obama politically in what is likely to be a tough 2012
re-election campaign amid U.S. unemployment rate that the
administration and most private economists project will be above
8 percent.  While Obama is unlikely to face a serious primary
challenge, complaints about the debt agreement among Democratic
Party activists come on top of frustration over the health-care
law that they criticized for not going far enough and Obama’s
willingness to extend Bush-era tax cuts last year.  Disappointed  “Our members worked very hard to elect the president,”
said  Justin Ruben , executive director of MoveOn.org, an advocacy
group that claims 5 million members. “Many of them are
disappointed.”  That could translate to a reduced intensity of support for
Obama in 2012, Ruben said. “People may just not be inspired to
hit the streets,” he said. “There is a bit of a credibility
problem.”  Representative Jesse Jackson Jr., an Illinois Democrat who
has a close relationship with Obama, said the president made “a
profound mistake” in signaling to Republicans that programs for
the elderly and the poor are on the table for cutting.  “It’s clear to us we’re going to have to go to the mat for
those people -- as we have been doing -- by ourselves and not
necessarily with the support of the administration,” he said,
referring to Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security recipients.  A Bad Taste  Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a Democrat from  New Jersey , said
Obama “tried his best to make sure we didn’t default, but that
doesn’t mean the medicine isn’t so strong that it just tastes
awful.”  Obama’s 2008 campaign was fueled by his promise for
dramatic change in Washington, as well as the sense of history
associated with the possibility of electing the nation’s first
black president. Even without disappointing his most ardent
supporters, recreating that energy -- to mobilize volunteers and
push voters to the polls -- was going to be a challenge for the
incumbent.  “After two and a half years of the presidency, the glow
that many of them felt the night of the Iowa caucuses or the
night of his general election has certainly faded,” said Tad Devine, a Democratic strategist who advised Senator  John Kerry 
of  Massachusetts  in the 2004 presidential election.  Doug Schoen, a former strategist for President  Bill Clinton , said Obama is losing the confidence of supporters
because he isn’t governing with a clear philosophy.  Politics and Principles  “It’s less about losing a loving feeling than seeing a
person who is veering from issue to issue, cause to cause, more
out of politics than on principle,” he said.  Still, Devine said energy behind Obama in 2012 will depend
some on who the Republicans nominate.  “If we have a Tea Party nominee for the Republican ticket,
I think we’ll have a lot of enthusiasm for Obama,” he said.  In a  video  released by his campaign yesterday, Obama tried
to sell the deal to his supporters, while also acknowledging
that the outcome was “far from satisfying.”  In a Rose Garden appearance today at the White House, Obama
said the budget can’t be balanced in the “backs of the very
people who have borne the brunt of this recession.”  ‘Enormous Leadership’  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, told reporters
yesterday that Obama’s standing wasn’t diminished in the debt
debate.  “The president showed enormous leadership through this
process,” he said.  Obama had the most to lose politically had the nation
defaulted. It would have been the first time in the nation’s
history and could have provided a significant political weapon
for his adversaries.  By being part of a deal that will slash  government spending 
by $2.4 trillion or more, Obama could be able to sell himself to
independent voters as a deficit-cutter.  “This is one of many rounds of the battle we are going to
have about the vision for the country,” said  John Lapp , a
Democratic strategist. “I am confident that progressives will
rally for President Obama.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  