-- 
Obama Says Debt Plan Is ‘First Step’ on Path Toward Balancing U.S. Budget

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-08-02T17:42:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/obama-says-debt-plan-is-first-step-on-path-toward-balancing-u-s-budget.html
President  Barack Obama  said final
congressional passage of legislation to raise the federal debt
ceiling and trim the deficit is a “first step” on a path that
must include both increased revenue and spending cuts to narrow
the government’s long-term budget shortfall.  “We can’t balance the budget on the backs of the very
people who have borne the brunt of this recession,” Obama said
in the White House  Rose Garden , minutes after the Senate gave
final approval to the bill. The House passed it yesterday. Obama
is set to sign the measure once it’s sent to his desk today.  Obama said taxes and entitlements must be dealt with by
lawmakers in the next phase called for in the legislation,
setting up a congressional committee that will recommend a plan
to shrink the deficit by another $1.5 trillion.  “Since you can’t close the deficit with just spending cuts
we’ll need a balanced approach where everything’s on the
table,” he said. “Everyone’s going to have to chip in. That’s
only fair.”  The president also said the focus in  Washington  must turn
to the struggling economy. Congress should take up measures that
will boost hiring and spending, including extending a payroll
tax cut for workers and jobless benefits for the unemployed,
passing three free-trade agreements and finishing work on
legislation to ease the patent process.  He again made a pitch for creation of a fund to help
private companies take on jobs rebuilding the nation’s
infrastructure.  “We’ve got to do everything in our power” to boost  job
creation , he said. “It shouldn’t take the risk of default, the
risk of economic catastrophe, to get folks in this town to work
together and do their jobs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.nets 
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 