-- 
Oil Slides a Fourth Day as U.S. Spending Drops, Moody’s Warns of Downgrade

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-08-03T06:32:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/oil-declines-for-fourth-day-in-new-york-after-u-s-personal-spending-drops.html
Oil declined for a fourth day in  New
York , its longest losing streak since May, as investors bet that
signs of a slowing  U.S. economy  indicate fuel demand will falter
in the world’s biggest crude-consuming nation.  Futures slipped as much as 0.7 percent today after U.S.
consumer spending unexpectedly fell in June for the first time
in almost two years. Moody’s Investors Service said the nation’s
credit rating may be downgraded on concerns that fiscal
discipline will ease, further debt reduction measures won’t be
adopted and the economy will weaken. Oil is also declining after
breaching a technical support level.  “The economic numbers are reflecting that demand is weak
in the U.S.,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director of
Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, who predicts oil will
average $100 a barrel this year. “Prices could come back to the
$90 level, if not more.”  Crude for September delivery dropped as much as 69 cents to
$93.10 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $93.25 at 2:29 p.m. Singapore time. It’s
the longest losing streak since the five days of declines to May
6. The contract yesterday slid $1.10 to $93.79. Prices are 13
percent higher in the past year.  Brent oil for September settlement declined 73 cents, or
0.6 percent, to $115.73 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $22.49 to U.S. futures, compared with a record close
of $22.67 yesterday.  Moving Average  Oil is extending losses in New York after dropping below
the 200-day moving average yesterday, a long-term support level
at about $95 a barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
A breach of technical support usually means prices will continue
to fall. Front-month futures may decline to the lower Bollinger
Band, around $91.11 today.  U.S. spending slipped 0.2 percent in June, Commerce
Department figures showed yesterday. The median estimate of 77
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.1 percent
increase. Incomes grew at the slowest pace since November.  The odds of another economic downturn are rising amid
cutbacks in spending by consumers and the government, according
to five of the nine members of the U.S. panel that dates
recessions, the Business Cycle Dating Committee of the  National
Bureau of Economic Research .  The U.S. probably failed to create enough jobs in July to
reduce unemployment. Payrolls probably climbed by 85,000 workers
after an 18,000 increase in June that was the smallest this
year, according to the median forecast of 81 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News before a Labor Department report Aug. 5.  Oil Supplies  “Commodity investors are expected to remain cautious ahead
of this Friday’s U.S. jobs report,”  Mark Pervan , head of
commodity research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
in Melbourne, said in a note today. The bank estimates oil in
New York will average $100 a barrel in the third quarter. Prices
fell “as investors focused on the weaker state of the U.S.
economy and softer demand,” he said.  U.S. crude stockpiles declined 3.31 million barrels last
week to 354.9 million, according to the industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute . An Energy Department report today may show
inventories climbed 1.5 million barrels, the median of 14
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey shows.  Gasoline supplies increased 2.55 million barrels to 212.2
million, the American Petroleum Institute said. The Energy
Department report may show they rose 250,000 barrels, according
to the Bloomberg News survey.  Negative Outlook  The American Petroleum Institute collects stockpile
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines. The government requires that
reports be filed with the Energy Department for its weekly
survey. Oil-supply totals from the API and the department have
moved in the same direction 71 percent of the time over the past
year and 76 percent over the past four years.  The U.S., rated Aaa since 1917, was placed on negative
outlook, New York-based Moody’s said in a statement today as it
confirmed the rating. Moody’s said on July 29 a negative outlook
was “more likely” as lawmakers reduced the size of spending
cuts being negotiated to win approval on a plan to lift the
nation’s borrowing limit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 