-- 
London Police Arrest Eleventh Suspect in News Corp. Hacking Investigation

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-08-02T19:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/london-police-said-to-arrest-ex-news-of-the-world-editor-in-hacking-probe.html
London police arrested former News of
the World managing editor Stuart Kuttner as part of their probe
into phone hacking and bribery at  News Corp. (NWS) ’s now-defunct
Sunday tabloid, two people familiar with the case said.  A 71-year-old man was arrested by appointment at a north
London police station and later released on bail, the
Metropolitan Police said in statements today. The man is
Kuttner, said the people, who declined to be identified because
they’re not authorized to name suspects.  It is the 11th arrest stemming from police investigations
opened this year into allegations that journalists at the
tabloid hacked into the phones of celebrities, politicians, and
murder victims, and bribed police for information. The scandal
forced News Corp. to shutter the 168-year-old News of the World
and drop its bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Police have previously arrested Rebekah Brooks, a former
chief executive officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News International unit,
and ex-News of the World editor  Andy Coulson , who was Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s press chief until January.  A number for Kuttner couldn’t be located in public filings
or on the Internet. The Guardian reported his arrest earlier
today. A police spokesman declined to comment beyond the
statement.  “News International continues to fully cooperate with the
 Metropolitan Police Service  in their ongoing investigations,”
spokeswoman  Daisy Dunlop  said in a phone interview. She declined
to provide contact information or the name of an attorney for
Kuttner.  Story Payments  Kuttner joined the News of the World in 1980 and served as
managing editor for 22 years before retiring in July 2009. His
role included overseeing the budget at the Sunday tabloid,
including “thousands and thousands of payments for stories,
pictures, features and articles and sports reports going through
our systems,” Kuttner told U.K. Parliament’s Culture, Media and
Sport Committee in July 2009.  Asked by lawmakers about cash payments to  Glenn Mulcaire ,
the private investigator at the center of the phone-hacking
scandal, Kuttner said he unknowingly approved “a relatively
small but regrettable number of false cash payments” over and
above Mulcaire’s “legitimate” contract.  Police opened the most recent probe into phone hacking in
January after disclosure in a civil lawsuit by the actress
 Sienna Miller  showed that the crime went beyond Mulcaire and a
former royal reporter at the tabloid who were jailed in 2007.  Resignations  The scandal, which intensified after revelations that a
murdered schoolgirl’s mobile phone was accessed, has led to the
resignation of senior officials at News Corp. and the
Metropolitan Police.  Evidence in the phone hacking probe has led to two
additional investigations, into police corruption and computer
hacking.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
units of News Corp. in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  