-- 
Hospital Failure to Support Breast-Feeding Sparks Child Obesity, CDC Says

-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-08-02T16:23:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/hospital-failure-to-support-breast-feeding-sparks-child-obesity-cdc-says.html
Most U.S. hospitals don’t have
programs to support mothers who want to breast-feed, leading to
higher risks of childhood obesity and disease, a report found.  Fewer than 4 percent of hospitals provide the necessary
 programs  and policies to help mothers breast-feed babies in the
first days after birth, according to the study published today
by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the journal
 Vital Signs . Nearly 75 percent of hospitals don’t follow-up with
mothers after birth, the study said.  Breast-feeding for nine months reduces a baby’s chance of
becoming overweight by more than 30 percent, according to the
report. Low breast-feeding rates add an estimated $2.2 billion a
year to medical costs related to obesity, diabetes and
respiratory infections, the study said.  “Those first few hours and days that a mom and her baby
spend learning to breast-feed are critical,” CDC Director
 Thomas Frieden  said in a  statement . “Hospitals need to better
support breast-feeding, as this is one of the most important
things a mother can do for her newborn.”  The report, based on data from a CDC survey on maternity
practices in hospitals, rated the facilities based on 10
criteria. “Baby-friendly” hospitals had practices such as
written policies on breast-feeding, helping mothers initiate
breast-feeding and allowing mothers and infants to remain
together for 24 hours a day.  “In the  United States  most women want to breast-feed, and
most women start,” said Ursula Bauer, director of the Atlanta-
based CDC’s  National Center  for Chronic Disease Prevention and
Health Promotion, in the release. “But without hospital support
many women have a hard time continuing to breast-feed, and they
stop early.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in  New York  at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 