-- 
Most Brazil Stocks Rise as Industry Slump Spurs Government Aid

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-08-02T13:53:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/most-brazil-stocks-rise-as-industry-slump-spurs-government-aid.html
Most stocks on the Bovespa index rose
after  Brazil ’s manufacturing slump spurred government measures
to shore up local industry while arousing speculation that the
central bank will stop raising borrowing costs.  The Bovespa was little changed at 58,555.41 at 9:32 a.m.
New York time. Forty-two stocks rose on the index while 24
declined. The real was little changed at 1.5665 per dollar.  Brazil’s industrial production fell 1.6 percent in June
from the previous month, the national statistics agency said
today. That compares to the median forecast for a 0.4 percent
drop in a Bloomberg survey of 30 economists. Traders reacted by
driving down yields on interest-rate futures.  “The central bank was already showing signs of caution
and, with these numbers, I think rate increases will stop,”
said Ricardo Denadai, an economist at Santander Asset
Management’s Brazil unit.  As part of measures to shore up manufacturers, which are
seeing profits eroded by a surging currency, Brazil will grant
automobile companies tax incentives in exchange for more
investments and  job creation , according to the Industrial
Development and Trade Ministry’s website. The government also
will reduce payroll taxes for producers of shoes, textiles,
furniture and software.  Global Markets  Global stocks fell and Treasury yields reached the lowest
this year on signs U.S. growth is slowing. Investors sought the
safety of U.S. bonds and the Swiss currency after U.S. lawmakers
approved legislation to raise the debt limit, a day before a
possible default. Attention shifted to weakening economic data,
including today’s 0.2 percent decrease in  consumer spending , the
slowest growth in personal incomes since November and a report
yesterday that showed American manufacturing sank to a two-year
low.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge fell yesterday on concern
U.S. industry is faltering and as economists boosted their 2013
Brazilian inflation forecasts for the first time.  Foreign investors added 142.6 million reais ($91.1 million)
to  Latin America ’s biggest equity market this year through July
27, data from the  Sao Paulo  exchange show.  The Bovespa trades at 9.5 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, the lowest since March 2009, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 12.4 for the
Shanghai Composite Index, 6.8 for  Russia ’s Micex and 14.8 for
 India ’s Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  