-- 
Tottenham Is the Favorite to Sign Joey Barton From Newcastle: Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-08-02T09:48:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/tottenham-is-the-favorite-to-sign-joey-barton-from-newcastle-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. media, with clickable links to the Web.  Barton for Tottenham?  Tottenham is the favorite to sign midfielder  Joey Barton 
after he was “banished” by Newcastle, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The northeast England team said yesterday that Barton could
leave on a free transfer. Owner Mike Ashley finally lost
patience with the player’s online rants against the club, the
Mail added.  Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp has dropped his bid to
sign 30 million-pound ($48.8 million) rated Giuseppe Rossi from
Villarreal,  the Sun  reported. Italy striker Rossi is staying in
Spain after being taken off the transfer list, the newspaper
added.  City Seeks Nasri  Manchester City is poised to bid 22 million pounds for
Arsenal’s Samir Nasri in the next 48 hours,  the Sun  reported.  City is set to make a “take it or leave it” offer for the
Frenchman, the newspaper said, citing sources close to the club.  Gunners’ striker Nicklas Bendtner may be on his way to
Stoke, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Potters manager  Tony Pulis  is lining up a 9 million-pound
offer after the Denmark international’s agents made contact last
weekend, according to the Mirror.  Zhirkov Exit?  Yuri Zhirkov may be the first big-name departure from
Chelsea under new manager Andre Villas-Boas, the  Daily Telegraph 
reported.  The club may bid for Porto’s Alvaro Perreira as a
replacement for the Russian, who can play on the left of defense
or midfield.  Warning for Dalglish  Liverpool’s principal owner  John Henry  warned coach Kenny Dalglish it would be a “major disappointment” if the club
fails to qualify for the  Champions League  this season,  the Mail 
reported.  Henry was in Oslo to see the Reds draw 3-3 with Valerenga.
They’ve let in a “worrying” 15 goals in five games, the Mail
said.  Midfielder Alberto Aquilani may leave Liverpool for AC
Milan, the Mail said, after a possible move to Fiorentina broke
down. Serie A champion Milan needs to replace Andrea Pirlo, who
left for Juventus as a free agent. Aquilani was on loan at Juve
last season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 