-- 
Love at Ikos Hedge Fund Sours as Ambrosiadou Fights With Coward

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B a k e r   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-08-02T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/love-at-ikos-hedge-fund-sours-as-ambrosiadou-fights-with-coward.html
On a warm evening in June at the
 Monaco  Yacht Club, Elena Ambrosiadou stands in front of 200
guests assembled to celebrate the 20th anniversary of Ikos Asset
Management Ltd., her $2.5 billion hedge fund. Wearing a beige
skirt and top and snakeskin heels, with her long hair dyed
platinum blond, Ambrosiadou is flanked by big plasma screens
showing her 289-foot Maltese Falcon, the largest sailing yacht
in the world, gliding past the Statue of Liberty.  Ambrosiadou tells the crowd she hopes the boat, which she
bought for $120 million in 2009, does well in a July sailing
competition, the Transatlantic Race, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its September issue. “Unfortunately, I won’t be able
to join the race because of my work commitments,” she tells the
guests as they eat blinis with caviar and sip Moet & Chandon
champagne.  Missing the 3,000-mile (4,828-kilometer) odyssey from
Newport,  Rhode Island , to England’s Lizard Point is one small
sign that Ambrosiadou, 52, is under siege. Ranked the highest-
paid woman in Britain by London’s Sunday Times before moving
Ikos to Cyprus in 2005, Ambrosiadou is now fighting over the
firm with the man who helped build it: her estranged husband and
former business partner, Martin Coward.  As quantitative analysts -- or quants -- Ambrosiadou, a
Greek-born engineer, and Coward, a British mathematician, belong
to one of the most elite cadres in finance. Their very public
quarrel has rocked the normally secretive world of hedge funds
at a time when the industry on both sides of the Atlantic is
under pressure over falling returns from the misjudging of
 commodities markets  and wrong-way bets on the euro.  Quant Power Couple  “The whole story is very unusual for the hedge-fund -
industry,” says Jerome Lussan, founder of London-based Laven
Partners LLP, which examines hedge funds for investors. “You
rarely have a team of founders who are married. They were well
regarded as a kind of golden couple.”  Almost 30 years after meeting at the University of
Cambridge in England, Ambrosiadou, chief executive officer of
Ikos, and Coward, who was chairman and chief investment officer
until he left in 2009 to set up his own company, have gone from
a quant power couple to a bickering duo fighting an expensive
and prolonged legal battle.  They’ve lodged about 40 lawsuits against each other during
the past two years in at least four countries, as well as
pending divorce actions to end their 27-year marriage . Ikos says
Coward has no ownership stake  in the firm and no right to its
profits, according to a company statement. Coward has said he
owns the software that drives Ikos investment decisions and is
claiming a stake in the firm.  Hallmarks of a Thriller  Relations are so fraught between Coward and Ambrosiadou
that they don’t even agree on whether it was their personal or
business union that frayed first. Coward, 53, has said their
relationship broke down after Ambrosiadou, without consulting
him, fired the 14-member Ikos research team in December 2008
while he was skiing in the Alps. Ambrosiadou has said in  legal
filings  that the marriage fell apart much earlier, in 2004.  With allegations flying back and forth, the fight over Ikos
has the hallmarks of a thriller: roving bands of private
investigators, electronic skullduggery and twin brothers who
allegedly copied Ikos computer files onto an iPod.  Coward claims that Ambrosiadou hired  Kroll Associates  to
bug him at their medieval home in southeast  England  and sent
spies to track him at clubs and cafes in St. Tropez, Cyprus and
Monaco, where the surveillance was codenamed Operation Apollo.  Lurid Allegations  Ikos contends that Coward illegally copied proprietary
software. It says it took legitimate actions to safeguard the
firm’s technology from attempts by Coward and former employees
to run off with it. Coward denies any wrong-doing, according to
a May 24 statement.  “I’ve got an organization to protect,” Ambrosiadou says,
sitting behind a large desk in her cramped, modern office in
Monaco, amid the collected works of Plato and photos of herself
with Prince Albert, Middle Eastern investors and her 14-year-old
son. “I have to go through the court process and let the judges
decide.”  Before  Ikos  became embroiled in lurid allegations, it was
known for its high returns. From 2007 to 2009, Ikos’s flagship
FX Fund produced annualized returns of 11.5 percent. Since
Coward left and the legal battle began, the FX Fund has surged
31 percent and Ikos’s Futures Fund has soared 28 percent on an
annualized basis through March 2011.  Fourth-Best Performer  Since the beginning of 2010, Ikos has boosted its assets
under management by more than 50 percent to about $2.5 billion,
and wooed sovereign-wealth funds that now make up more than half
of its assets under management, including the Abu Dhabi
Investment Authority.  The FX Fund, which invests in currencies, gained 26 percent
last year. The FX Fund was up nearly 10 percent through the end
of June, beating Bloomberg’s Index for Managed Futures Funds and
Commodity Trading Advisers, which was down almost 4 percent. The
FX Fund was the fourth-best performer among large hedge funds
last year, according to a Bloomberg Markets ranking (“Dr.
Brownstein’s Winning Formula,” February 2011).  Founded in 1991 and named after the Greek word for home,
Ikos was one of the first quant investment firms. It makes money
by designing mathematical models that use market data to
forecast prices of securities and futures. With its reliance on
its automated computer programs, nicknamed Wendy, Fox and
Badger, Ikos is what’s known as a systematic managed-futures
firm, replacing human judgment with quantitative analysis.  Turn Ugly  Driven by mathematicians and engineers, quant investing
during the past 15 years has helped fuel the global boom in
hedge funds that, even after the shakeout of the past three
years, still manage  $1.8 trillion .  Assets of systematic  managed-futures funds , which trade
futures contracts on currencies, commodities and interest rates,
have surged to $238.6 billion in the first quarter of this year
from $22.9 billion in 1999, according to Fairfield, Iowa-based
BarclayHedge Ltd.  With hedge funds such as Ikos so dependent on intellectual
property, things can turn ugly when there’s a dispute over who
controls the computer models--and uglier still when a marriage
breakup and personal animosities are added to the mix.  In a lawsuit in the U.K. High Court last year, Coward said
he was the one who had devised the algorithms at the heart of
the firm’s 20-year success. Then, in early May, Coward withdrew
his suit without explanation. His legal flip-flop cost him more
than 2 million pounds ($3.2 million), Ikos said in a statement.  Take Control  Ikos contends that Coward and former Ikos employees tried
to take control of the company and misappropriate its technology
even before he left, according to a statement by the company on
May 24.  Coward downloaded software in November 2009 using a laptop
and external hard drive, according to a lawsuit Ikos filed in
the U.K. High Court against Hogan Lovells International LLP,
Coward’s law firm. He set up a company in Cyprus called
Marmidons Ltd. and is in the process of developing new trading
software, the lawsuit says.  Coward declined to be interviewed for this story, saying
he’s under a court order not to comment on Ambrosiadou or the
firm. “It is wholly misconceived,” Hogan Lovells spokeswoman
Karen Snell says of the lawsuit.  Interviewed in her Monaco office, Ambrosiadou comes across
as cerebral. She gives a five-minute lesson on the etymology of
the word Ikos, which in ancient  Greece  was the name of the
treasury on the island of Delos.  Maltese Falcon  Displaying an engineer’s fascination with high technology,
she becomes particularly animated when talking about the
computer system that allows a single person to sail the Maltese
Falcon, which she auctioned off for two weeklong holidays to
raise £930,000 for charity in June.  The rest of the time--her eyes often fixed on the table in
front of her, occasionally twisting a diamond ring on her middle
finger--she speaks softly about her efforts to protect the firm
while declining to talk about current litigation.  “We have built an institutional infrastructure here,”
Ambrosiadou says. “There were many other people at Ikos who I
recruited to work on technical issues, operations, databases. I
worked with all of those people, not just with Martin, in order
to develop the infrastructure.”  The man who sold her the Maltese Falcon says Ambrosiadou is
determined. “She’s not going to let Martin Coward screw up Ikos
and her life,” says  Tom Perkins , a partner at Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers, a  Menlo Park , California-based venture-capital
firm.  ‘Faster, Faster!’  Perkins sailed across the Atlantic with her in rough
weather in 2009. “The boat was rocking around, but she just
loved it and she was up on the bridge, full of questions. The
captain later told me that she kept saying, ‘Faster, faster!’”  The split with her husband and fight over the business have
taken an emotional toll on Ambrosiadou. She takes out a poem she
wrote earlier this year:
Parallel lives binding chaos
Beauty and pain
Complexity with brilliance
Love and rejection.
The poem ends with “She is the weaver of her dreams.”  Ambrosiadou has been spinning her own dreams since she was
a child growing up in Thessaloniki, Greece. Her father, who ran
his own trading business, wanted his daughter, the elder of two
girls, to own and manage her own company.  ‘My Own Business’  “To him, if I wanted to be really successful, I had to run
my own business,” she says. Ambrosiadou, who excelled at math
and science in high school, attended the University of Leeds in
England, where she earned a Bachelor of Science in chemical
engineering. She went on to Cambridge, where she planned to do a
Ph.D. in control engineering, the discipline of applying
mathematical models to design mechanical and electrical systems.  It was at Cambridge that she met Coward, then a doctoral
student also studying control engineering. Coward, whose -father
was an engineer, grew up in Birmingham, England. He and
Ambrosiadou married in 1983. After leaving the university,
Coward joined Principia Mechanica, a consulting group then based
in Cambridge, where he used his statistical skills to analyze
earthquakes.  Deciding against pursuing her degree at Cambridge,
Ambrosiadou got a master’s in technology and development at
 Imperial College London . She went to work for BP Plc, where she
became a manager in the company’s chemical business after
getting an MBA at Bedfordshire, England-based Cranfield
University School of Management in 1988.  ‘Heavy-Duty Quant’  While Ambrosiadou was at BP, Coward was headhunted in 1986
by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which was scouring research labs
for quants. “Coward was an extremely bright guy, very
personable,” says Ron DiRusso, who worked with Coward at Goldman
Sachs in the late 1980s and knew the couple. “Martin was a
heavy-duty quant,” says DiRusso, who is now a portfolio manager
at FX Concepts LLC in  New York . “He was more of a thinker. Elena
was the business-minded person.”  It was about this time that Ambrosiadou made her first
foray into asset management, investing $500,000 of her father’s
money in mutual funds.  In 1989, Coward took a job at Investcorp, a Manama,
Bahrain-based investment bank that at the time focused mostly on
buyouts. Ambrosiadou quit BP to work in her -father’s business
and then joined her husband in Bahrain in 1990.  ‘I Can Do This’  She was also researching business ideas, and she concluded
that then-U.K. Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher ’s “Big Bang”
deregulation that allowed banks and brokers to merge would open
up opportunities in  fund management .  At a conference in  Chicago  organized by the U.S.’s  National
Futures Association , Ambrosiadou heard a woman who traded
futures contracts describe how she had raised $50 million. “I
thought, ‘OK, I can do this,’” she recalls. “I couldn’t just sit
there and do nothing.”  In 1990, at the age of 31, Ambrosiadou set up an account at
a  London  broker with $100,000 and began trading futures. Ikos
(UK) Ltd. was formed the following year. During this time,
Ambrosiadou also worked at KPMG LLP in Bahrain as a consultant.  By the end of 1992, Ambrosiadou and Coward decided to quit
their day jobs, move to London and devote themselves full time
to Ikos.  In 1992, she and Coward set up Ikos Partners, the London-
based unit that provided investment-management services to Ikos.
Coward owned 10 percent of Ikos Partners, while Ambrosiadou
eventually owned the rest.  The Family  For several years, they traded Japanese equity warrants and
index futures in managed accounts for Donald Sussman’s Paloma
Partners LLC, a Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund. In
1995, Ikos raised $3 million for its first fund, trading
Japanese equities.  As they built the firm, Ambrosiadou was CEO, working on
Ikos systems, meeting investors, hiring staff and dealing with
regulators while monitoring trading performance. Coward ran
research and trading, devising algorithms and developing trading
software.  Coward became so close to his research team that he
sometimes referred to them as his family, people close to the
firm say. The “family” included research head Peter Ho, who had
a Ph.D. from Oxford University, and Sam Gover, who had a
doctorate from Imperial College and managed the Ikos Futures
Fund. They joined the firm in 1994.  By 2006, Ikos had $3.5 billion in assets under management,
more than twice as much as two years earlier. In 2005,
Ambrosiadou moved Ikos’s operations to Cyprus to take advantage
of low tax rates.  First Salvo  As the business grew, so did tensions within the firm. In
2006, Sam Gover’s older twin brothers, Julian and Lucien Gover,
who had worked at Ikos since the mid-1990s, sued Ikos for £26
million in the U.K. High Court. They said they were owed an
equity stake in Ikos and a share of its profits.  Ikos then lodged its own suit, claiming that the Gover
twins, who worked on the firm’s finances and accounts, had
illegally copied confidential computer files onto an iPod. The
lawsuits were settled out of court in 2007, and the Gover
brothers agreed to return the files.  It was the first salvo in a barrage of allegations that
former Ikos employees were walking out the door with the firm’s
secrets. The Gover twins declined to comment.  After being fired in 2008, Sam Gover and Ho claimed that
they were unfairly dismissed and that the firm owed each of them
£6 million in unpaid bonuses for 2007 and 2008.  System Crash  This year, Ikos sued Sam Gover in the U.K. High Court,
claiming he had failed to test and document amendments to the
computer codes, causing the system to crash at least four times
from November 2007 to October 2008.  Gover also unlawfully removed and retained confidential
computer files from Ikos, the suit alleges. “We believe this
claim is yet another procedural tactic by Ikos,” says Gover’s
lawyer, Jonathan Chamberlain of Wragge and Co. “Sam has a robust
defense and counterclaim.”  Ambrosiadou allegedly began spying on Gover shortly before
he was fired, according to a lawsuit Gover filed in the U.K.
High Court in May 2010. He claims Ambrosiadou hired a woman
named Laura Merts to find out about his plans to start his own
business.  In November 2008, Merts moved into the apartment above
Gover and his wife in Cyprus and introduced herself as Laura
Maria Van Egmond, a wealthy Dutch acquaintance of Ambrosiadou,
the lawsuit claims.  Confidential Plans  Gover says the woman befriended him and his pregnant wife,
Laura Carminati. She was left alone on several occasions in the
Gover and Carminati home with their eldest child and had access
to their computers, which contained confidential business plans,
Gover says.  According to the lawsuit, Gover’s wife told Merts that her
husband wanted to establish a business in London with Ho and
that they were discussing the idea of setting up a venture in
Monaco with Coward.  On November 2, 2009, Merts sent an e-mail from a new
address using her real name instead of Van Egmond, the lawsuit
says.  Gover and his wife did a simple Web search and found her
LinkedIn profile, which identified her as a consultant in covert
investigations who had been trained in  Israel  in surveillance
and counterterrorism. Telephone calls to the Inkerman Group, a
business-risk and intelligence company that Gover alleges
employed Merts, weren’t returned.  Surveillance Operation?  Ambrosiadou filed no defense in the Gover lawsuit and
agreed to pay unspecified damages as part of an out-of-court
settlement with Gover and his wife, according to legal filings.
Gover and Ho have since started their own quantitative futures
fund based in London called Altiq LLP, which has $90 million
under management.  In May of this year, Coward came forward with spying
allegations of his own. A lawsuit he filed in the U.K. High
Court made these accusations: In November 2009, operatives hired
by Ambrosiadou followed him from his Monaco apartment to his
office and to restaurants, photographing him and the people he
met. In January 2010, a month after Coward resigned from Ikos, a
surveillance operation that included eight people, six cars and
a motorbike tracked him in Limassol, Cyprus, allegedly under
instructions from Ambrosiadou.  Ambrosiadou declined to comment on the lawsuit. An Ikos
statement on May 24 said the firm acted lawfully to protect its
investors’ interests by initiating investigations.  Private Jet  The legal skirmish between Coward and Ambrosiadou
continued. On June 4, 2010, Coward released to the British media
his legal filing in their divorce proceedings in Greece.  Ambrosiadou hit back, seeking an emergency injunction
preventing further publication of divorce papers, according to
the appeal granted to her by the U.K. High Court in April. Later
in June, Coward flew an Ikos private jet, a Cessna Citation
Mustang, to Greece from  France , only to be forced to take a
commercial flight back to Monaco after Ambrosiadou claimed he
was using it unlawfully and police stepped in.  Coward’s High Court lawsuit alleges that this is what
happened next: In St. Tropez in August 2010, a Kroll Associates
U.K. Ltd. operative and two colleagues hired by Ambrosiadou
trailed him and his friends to a restaurant and on to a
nightclub. On October 28, 2010, operatives in a Jaguar followed
him as he drove from the family home in West Sussex to Shoreham
Airport in England. A later search of his car revealed that a
GPS tracking device had been attached to the rear bumper.  Under Threat  Coward further alleges that in December 2010, Ambrosiadou
hired Kroll to install voice-activated infrared cameras in the
kitchen and study of their West Sussex home and that in March
2011 cameras recorded a long conversation between Coward and his
mother in which they discussed his business plans and tax
affairs.  Coward is seeking damages for harassment and breach of
data-protection laws. As of mid-July, Ambrosiadou hadn’t
responded to the suit. It’s not illegal to bug your own home,
says  Robert Brown , a law partner at Corker Binning in London.  The spying allegations came amid Ikos’s claims that its
software had been under threat. Ikos filed a civil lawsuit in
May in Cyprus against Vincent Pfister, who joined Ikos in Cyprus
in April 2009 as research manager.  According to testimony at a June hearing in Cyprus by Ikos
board member Ian Mayes, Ikos technicians discovered that
in November 2009 Pfister had copied codes from Fox, Wendy and
Badger, the firm’s software programs, onto a memory stick and
sent it to his parents’ house in Grenoble, France.  ‘Something Extraordinary’  Mayes said in court that when lawyers asked Pfister whether
he gave the software files to Coward, Pfister responded: “I
didn’t need to; Coward already had it.” Pfister denies passing
along any data to Coward or working with him to set up a rival
firm.  In his testimony, Mayes also said court-ordered raids on
Coward’s office in Monaco turned up an organizational diagram of
his new company, named Flot SAM, with the names of Sam Gover and
Pfister on the chart in boxes.  The fight over one of the oldest hedge funds in the world
doesn’t surprise Ikos board member Robert Savage, a former
Goldman Sachs managing director who has known Ambrosiadou and
Coward since the mid-1980s.  “There is something extraordinary about the IT at Ikos,”
says Savage, who joined Ikos after Coward left. At the same
time, he says, the firm’s trading software has been continuously
updated since Coward resigned, making it a different machine
than the one he left behind. “It’s foolhardy to think any
organization managing money can be on autopilot. You have to
check the weather. Ikos is designed to remove human emotions
from trading decisions.”  Messy Divorce  As the legal battles over intellectual property and the
messy divorce suggest, human emotions have not been far from the
surface at Ikos in recent years. In her Monaco office,
Ambrosiadou pauses and speaks slowly about the need to put
personal distractions aside and concentrate on making money for
her investors.  “My focus is on the business and on the future,” she says.
At the same time, she has to get through the dozens of lawsuits
that are focused on the past.  -- With assistance from Stelios Orphanides in Cyprus. Editors:
Stryker McGuire, Jonathan Neumann  To contact the reporters on this story: Stephanie Baker in
London at   stebaker@bloomberg.net  and Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael
Serrill in New York at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 