-- 
Toyota Raises Full-Year Profit Forecast 39% on Faster Recovery from Quake

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-08-02T11:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/toyota-raises-full-year-profit-forecast-to-5-04-billion-amidst-rebound.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Japan’s largest
automaker, raised its full-year profit forecast by 39 percent,
capping industry earnings that point to a faster-than-expected
recovery from the record March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Toyota today raised its net income forecast for this fiscal
year to 390 billion yen ($5 billion) from an earlier forecast of
280 billion yen, compared with net income of 408 billion yen
last fiscal year. Sales may rise to 19 trillion yen, higher than
the estimate of 18.6 trillion yen made June 10.  Toyota’s revised outlook came a day after Honda Motor Co.
raised its profit forecast 18 percent in the aftermath of the
magnitude-9 temblor that damaged parts factories and power
plants. Nissan Motor Co. also beat analyst estimates with first-
quarter net income of 85 billion yen, and it may consider
revising its forecast after the second quarter, Corporate Vice
President Joji Tagawa said July 27.  “The Japanese carmakers are recovering more quickly than
earlier expected,” said Tadashi Usui, an analyst at Moody’s K.K.
in  Tokyo . “The challenge post-recovery is how competitive they
can be in this very difficult operating environment.”  Toyota said profit in the fiscal first quarter, the period
most affected by the disasters, plunged 99 percent. The maker of
the Prius hybrid car reported net income of 1.16 billion yen for
the three months ended June 30, compared with the average of six
analysts’ estimates for a net loss of 68.6 billion yen.  Hyundai Advantage  “Because of the quicker recovery, we’ve been able to push
up our production and sales plans,” Senior Managing Officer
Takahiko Ijichi said in Tokyo today. “We are working to improve
our profit structure globally so that we can better last year’s
result even if it’s just by the slightest margin.”  Global vehicle sales dropped 33 percent to 1.22 million in
the three months ended June 30, the automaker said. Sales
plunged 48 percent in  North America  and 42 percent in Japan.
Deliveries in  Asia , excluding Japan, fell 9 percent to 259,000
units.  The difficulties for Japanese carmakers are compounded by
the yen’s surge against the dollar and South Korean rival
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s increased production to take advantage of
Japanese factory shutdowns.  Hyundai’s second-quarter profit gained 37 percent to 2.3
trillion won ($2.2 billion). Its U.S. market share rose to 5.1
percent this year through June from 4.6 percent last year, while
Toyota and Honda have lost ground, according to Autodata Corp.,
a  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based research company.  Yen Strength  “Hyundai was a strong competitor even before the quake,
and the disaster gave it even more of an advantage to expand
sales,” said Yoshiaki Kawano, an analyst at consulting company
IHS Automotive. “Toyota is recovering at a faster-than-expected
pace, but it needs to introduce its new models as soon as
possible to compete with Hyundai.”  The strength of the Japanese currency, which is close to a
post-World War II high, cuts the value of repatriated earnings
from exports. The yen gained 11 percent against the dollar in
the April-June quarter from a year earlier and traded at 77.18
yen today.  A 15-yen change in the  exchange rate  over the past year has
“blown off” 300,000 yen, or $3,900, in profit on a $20,000 car,
Ijichi said.  “Frankly speaking, losing 300,000 yen per vehicle is a
real drag,” he said.  Recovery Phase  A stronger yen cut Toyota’s fiscal first-quarter operating
profit by 50 billion yen, the company said today. Toyota is
basing its full-year forecasts on 80 yen to the dollar and 116
yen to the euro.  The carmaker is struggling to compete with Hyundai,  South
Korea ’s largest carmaker, which benefits from the weaker won and
local labor costs that are half of those in Japan, Ijichi said.  “We now face many strong competitors, including our
neighbor, Hyundai, which it makes it more difficult than before
to raise prices,” he said.  Toyota expects to enter a production recovery phase in
September, one month earlier than previously announced, it said
today. The carmaker raised its full-year production target to
7.72 million units, compared with a June forecast for 7.39
million.  Toyota is hiring as many as 4,000 temporary workers in
Japan to make up lost production. It plans to introduce an
updated Camry sedan, the best-selling car in the U.S., later
this year and increase incentive spending to regain market share
in its most profitable market, Ijichi said.  Output Disruption  The company’s vehicle sales in the U.S. dropped 18 percent
in the fiscal first quarter from a year earlier, and its market
share slipped 3.4 percentage points in the period, according to
auto industry researcher Edmunds.com.  Toyota and Honda are also losing ground in  China , the
world’s largest auto market. Toyota’s sales dropped 20 percent
in the April-June quarter, while Honda’s fell 27 percent.
Nissan’s deliveries gained 23 percent and Hyundai’s increased
8.3 percent.  All of Toyota’s Japan plants were halted until March 28,
when the company restarted limited output of Prius and Lexus
hybrid models. Production at all domestic factories resumed
April 18 at half capacity.  Cut Costs  Toyota expects to lose 150,000 units in global output
because of the March earthquake, compared with an earlier
estimate for 450,000 units, Ijichi said. Short supplies of
critical parts -- particularly semiconductors, rubber and
plastic materials -- have hampered the recovery.  Shares of Toyota fell 0.3 percent to 3,160 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of trading in Tokyo, before the earnings announcement. The
stock has dropped 13 percent since March 10, the day before the
earthquake.  President Akio Toyoda is committed to maintaining
production of about 3 million vehicles a year in  Japan  to avoid
job cuts. To do so, Toyota aims to cut production costs by 20
percent and focus domestic output on advanced-technology models
such as hybrids and high-margin Lexus cars, Toyota Executive
Vice President Atsushi Niimi said last month.  “On a pure cost comparison, we definitely lose the race”
against Hyundai, Ijichi said. “But I still think our production
technology, vehicle development infrastructure and supplier
foundation keep us a head above the rest globally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue in Tokyo at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  