-- 
Palm Oil May Advance as U.S. Soybean Crops Decline on Weather

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-08-02T05:28:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/palm-oil-may-advance-as-u-s-soybean-crops-decline-on-weather.html
Palm oil  may gain after a government
report showed that the condition of U.S. soybeans, crushed to
make a rival oil, worsened last week amid hot, dry weather
across the Midwest.  The October-delivery contract ended the morning session
little changed at 3,119 ringgit ($1,056) a metric ton after
advancing as much as 0.3 percent on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange. Futures have gained 21 percent in the past year.  About 60 percent of the soybeans in the top 18 producing
states were in good or excellent condition as of July 31, from
62 percent a week earlier and 66 percent a year earlier, the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  said yesterday. About 77 percent
of the plants were flowering, from 60 percent a week earlier.  “Soybeans are likely to have some influence since they’re
having weather play at the moment,” Donny Khor, senior vice
president for futures & options at OSK Investment Bank Bhd.,
said by phone from  Kuala Lumpur . “The weather play is pretty
sensitive and has led the market to be more choppy.”  Soybean oil for December delivery advanced as much as 0.6
percent to 57.24 cents per pound in  Chicago . Soybeans for
delivery in November gained as much as 0.6 percent to $13.705
per bushel.  The weather early this month may not be as hot or dry as
July, although some concerns over above-normal temperatures are
expected to continue in parts of the southern and eastern
Midwest, Telvent DTN Inc. said in a forecast yesterday. Heavy
rains are expected between Colorado and Indiana over the next
five days,  QT Weather  said in a report yesterday.  U.S. Economy   Palm oil’s trading would be “range-bound” between 3,080
ringgit and 3,180 ringgit in the near term amid concern over the
U.S. economy, Khor said. A report today is forecast to show that
personal spending stagnated in June, after data yesterday showed
a gauge of manufacturing weakened to a two-year low.  Concern is shifting to the slowing U.S. recovery after the
 House of Representatives  approved legislation to raise the
federal debt limit, a day before a possible default. The Senate
will vote on the proposal today.  The U.S. debt issue isn’t “over yet because this is kind
of a temporary measure,” said Khor. “Whether it will be cured,
I don’t think so, it will continue.”  Palm oil for May delivery climbed as much as 0.7 percent to
9,288 yuan ($1,443) a ton on the  Dalian Commodity Exchange  and
 soybean oil  for delivery in the same month added as much as 0.6
percent to 10,398 yuan a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  