-- 
Pandora Loses More Than Two-Thirds of Value as Charm Maker Cuts Forecast

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-02T15:59:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/pandora-drops-as-charm-maker-cuts-forecast.html
Pandora A/S, the Danish maker of
charm bracelets, lost about two-thirds of its market value in
Copenhagen trading after cutting its full-year forecast and
saying Chief Executive Officer Mikkel Vendelin Olesen had left.  Pandora dropped 65 percent, the biggest decline since the
Glostrup, Denmark-based jeweler’s initial public offering in
October.  The company has lost about 41.2 billion kroner ($7.87
billion) in market value since the stock peaked in January.
Pandora was Denmark’s largest public stock sale in 16 years. The
company, which sells silver bracelets for $65 and charms to add
to them for $30 each, plans to abandon the price increases
Olesen implemented to combat rising commodity costs.  “Credibility and visibility is now completely shot,”
William Birch, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in
 London , said in a note, adding he’s reviewing his “buy”
recommendation on the stock. “Investors may regret ever opening
this box of disappointments.”  Second-quarter earnings before interest and taxes fell to
440 million kroner, the company said. That missed the average
estimate of 611 million kroner in a Bloomberg survey of four
analysts. Sales in July plummeted about 30 percent.  ‘Self-Inflicted’  Pandora declined 96.20 kroner to close at 51 kroner, giving
the company a market value of 6.64 billion kroner. The owners
priced the shares at 210 kroner before the IPO and the stock
jumped 25 percent to 263 kroner on Oct. 5, the first day of
trading.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan
Stanley and Stockholm-based Nordea Bank AB arranged Pandora’s
stock sale.  The results, published two weeks earlier than scheduled,
are “totally unacceptable” and “self-inflicted,” Chairman
Allan Leighton said at a conference call with analysts. Pandora
was wrong to have increased prices, he added.  “We have been doing that at a time when consumers have
become more value conscious,” he said. “We will move back to
where we really should be, which is within affordable luxury.”  Pandora today said 2011 revenue won’t rise. The company
previously forecast at least 30 percent growth. The company will
suspend planned price increases this year and in 2012, start a
strategic review using external consultants and present the
conclusions to investors at the end of the year, Leighton said.  CEO Olesen has resigned with “immediate effect” and board
member Marcello Bottoli will take over until the company finds a
new permanent chief, according to the statement.  “The CEO of the company is in the end accountable for the
performance, that is why he resigned,” Leighton said.  Revenue rose 3.6 percent to 1.39 billion kroner, missing
the average estimate of 1.73 billion kroner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 