-- 
Paramilitary Troops May Patrol Karachi as 339 Killed in a Month

-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-08-02T19:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/paramilitary-troops-may-patrol-karachi-as-339-killed-in-a-month.html
Pakistan  may deploy surveillance
helicopters and paramilitary troops to quell gang and political
violence in Karachi, the country’s financial center, after 339
people were shot dead in the past month.  Interior Minister Rehman Malik said yesterday that
officials feared the wave of targeted killings could escalate
into even more deadly fighting between ethnic groups backing
rival parties if “strict action” is not taken. After the
killing of 313 people in July, a further 26 died in clashes Aug.
1, Sharfuddin Memon, an adviser to the  provincial government’s 
home ministry, said by phone.  “We are planning an operation in which paramilitary troops
will be used,” Memon said yesterday.  Karachi, which is home to 18 million people, the country’s
stock exchange and its central bank and contributes 70 percent
of the nation’s tax revenue, has for years witnessed surges in
street violence involving members of the  Pakistan Peoples Party 
of President Asif Ali Zardari, the Muttahida Qaumi Movement and
the  Awami National Party .  “This is a turf war among various gangs who have some sort
of political backing,” Asad Sayeed, an economist at the
Karachi-based  Collective for Social Science Research , said in a
phone interview. “These people are contesting for control of
the city, which has been divided along ethnic and sectarian
lines.”  Ethnic Split  The MQM represents people who emigrated from  India  to
Pakistan at the time of both countries’ independence from
British colonial rule in 1947 and settled in and around Karachi.
The ANP is supported by ethnic Pashtuns from Pakistan’s
northwest. The port city also serves as the headquarters in
Pakistan for companies such as Citigroup Inc. and Unilever Plc.  The MQM quit the coalition government of Prime Minister
 Yousuf Raza Gilani  in June, the second time it had done so this
year. It left the ruling bloc in January to protest a decision
to raise prices of fuel but later reversed the decision.  About 490 people died in city gun battles in the first six
months of the year, according to  Human Rights Commission of
Pakistan  data. “Karachi is in the grip of a multi-sided wave of
insecurity-driven political, ethnic and sectarian
polarization,” the commission said in a statement Aug. 1.  Malik said the authorities would also act against “illegal
foreigners in the city.” Karachi has become a bolt-hole in
recent years for militants, some of them foreign, who have fled
offensives by Pakistan’s army in the country’s northwestern
region.  “A solution will have to be negotiated politically,”
Sayeed said yesterday. “People have to realize that this city
doesn’t belong to any particular group and the economic impact
of a continued unrest is huge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  