-- 
Paulson, BlackRock Hire London Mining Analysts as Funds Step Up Coverage

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 
2011-08-02T23:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/paulson-blackrock-ubs-lead-london-mining-analyst-hiring-spree.html
Paulson & Co., BlackRock Inc. and UBS
AG are leading a hiring spree of London-based mining analysts as
banks, brokers and  hedge funds  compete to bolster research teams
in an industry valued at more than $350 billion in the U.K.  “We haven’t seen this much movement before,” Philip
Charsley, director of financial markets at London-based Hays
Plc, the U.K.’s biggest recruitment firm, said in a phone
interview. “It’s the hottest sector in the market right now.”  At least eight mining and steel analysts have changed roles
in the city in the past two months. Nomura International Plc
suspended coverage of stocks including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio
Tinto Group, the world’s biggest mining companies, because of
changes to its team. Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. also halted
industry coverage, said two people familiar with the situation.  Rising demand for mining analysts coincides with surging
prices for metals and bulk commodities. The weighting of basic
materials stocks in the U.K.’s benchmark FTSE 100 Index has
almost tripled since 2004 to 14.5 percent of the index and is
now the third-largest industry with stocks totaling a market
value of 225 billion pounds ($366 billion) at June 30,  FTSE
Group  said.  Olivia Ker, who covered stocks including BHP, Rio, Xstrata
Plc and Glencore International Plc, has left UBS for BlackRock,
UBS said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Paul Galloway 
started with Paulson, the $37 billion hedge fund headed by  John
Paulson , on Aug. 1 after moving from Bernstein, a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said.  ‘Fight’ for Analysts  Melissa Garville, a London-based spokeswoman for BlackRock,
and Paulson & Co. spokesman  Armel Leslie  declined to comment.  Evy Hambro of BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager,
runs the $17.8 billion World Mining Fund. BlackRock is the
largest holder of Melbourne-based BHP, the world’s biggest
mining company.  “There’s been this fight to find really strong mining
analysts,” Charsley at Hays said. “They have specialist
knowledge. In the case of mining you will be found out in
seconds if you don’t understand the sector really well.”  Ephrem Ravi, formerly a senior mining analyst at  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  in  London , will join  Barclays Capital  in Hong Kong, two
people familiar with the move said, declining to be identified
because the appointment isn’t yet public. Carsten Riek joined
UBS on July 25 from Morgan Stanley to lead coverage of the
European steel sector with Saurabh Kothari, UBS said in an e-
mailed statement.  Top-Ranked Team  Riek and Ravi were both members of the top-ranked mining
analyst team in Europe at Morgan Stanley, according to this
year’s Extel survey.  Macquarie Securities Group, a unit of Australia’s largest
investment bank  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , said yesterday it hired
Jeff Largey from Nomura to lead its Europe,  Middle East  and
Africa metals and mining research from London.  Nomura said July 28 it was suspending coverage of BHP,  Rio
Tinto , Vale SA and Vedanta Resources Plc because of a
reorganization of the team. “We plan to resume coverage in due
course,” it said in a statement. The bank’s view on the
industry remains bullish, it said.  Paul Cliff, formerly of Nomura, will join ING Groep NV as
head of its EMEA metals and mining team. ING plans to add
another mining analyst shortly, it said in an e-mailed response
to questions from Bloomberg.  ‘Significant Investment’  “The resources space is increasingly important to our
clients, and in an effort to meet their demands for world-class
research coverage, we have made significant investments to
upgrade our metals and mining product,” Mike Kaplan, ING’s
global head of EMEA equity markets, said in the statement.  Macquarie’s Largey, formerly a steel analyst with Nomura,
will report to Julian Wentzel, head of research in the region,
the bank said. Macquarie also hired Alon Olsha in May as senior
analyst on the metals and mining team, it said.  “Over the coming months, we intend to build the team out
further given the importance of this sector to Macquarie’s
various businesses,” Wentzel said in a statement yesterday.  Max Layton  has joined  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in London,
two people familiar with the hire said. Layton was previously a
commodities analyst at Macquarie. Sophie Bullock, a spokeswoman
for Goldman, declined to comment.  Initial public offerings and other fund raisings are among
events that can prompt brokers to strengthen their research
teams, Charsley said. Glencore, the largest listed commodity
trader, last month hired  Paul Smith  as investor relations
manager from Marshall Wace Asset Management Ltd. where he was an
analyst and portfolio manager for the London-based hedge fund.  Glencore sold $10 billion in shares in a May IPO managed by
Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley as
global coordinators. Bank of America Corp. and BNP Paribas as
joint bookrunners.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Societe Generale SA and UBS
were appointed co-bookrunners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  