-- 
Peru Bonds Rise on Bet Humala Economic Team to Foster Investment

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-08-02T21:05:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/peru-bonds-rise-on-bet-humala-economic-team-to-foster-investment.html
Peru ’s bonds rose to a five-month
high after President Ollanta Humala formed an economic team that
reassured investors the former army officer will defend economic
policies fueling growth.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 6.12 percent, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg. The bond’s price gained 0.29 centimo to 111.78
centimos per sol, the highest since Feb. 23.  Finance Minister Miguel Castilla appointed Laura Calderon,
a former head of Peru’s tax collection agency, as deputy economy
minister yesterday and said Carlos Oliva, a former consultant to
the  World Bank , will become deputy finance minister. Humala said
during his July 28 inaugural speech that his government will
respect contracts with investors.  “With these appointments, the new government is
guaranteeing there isn’t going to be a radical change in
economic policy and the free-market approach will be
maintained,” said  Roberto Flores , an economist at Inteligo SAB,
a Lima-based brokerage. “That’s why there’s been a big influx
of non-resident investors into the sovereign curve.”  The yield on the nation’s bonds rose to a two-year high
during the presidential election campaign amid concern Humala’s
pledges to increase mining royalties, revise a free-trade
agreement with the U.S. and enlarge state companies may deter
foreign investment. Humala shifted his stance during the
campaign to support policies that made Peru the fastest-growing
Latin American economy in the last decade.  The sol was little changed at 2.7425 per  U.S. dollar , from
2.7430 yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to own Peruvian  government
bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 15 basis points to 166,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  