-- 
Pfizer CEO Not ‘Chasing Revenue’ in Deals as Patents Expire

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-08-02T20:26:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/pfizer-won-t-chase-revenue-with-large-deals-as-patents-expire-read-says.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  Chief Executive Officer
 Ian Read  said he won’t seek large deals to replace falling
revenue, as the world’s biggest drugmaker loses patent
exclusivity to drugs responsible for 60 percent of yearly sales.  “We are not going to chase revenue at the destruction of
capital,” Read said today in a telephone interview. “We have
geographic breadth, we have portfolio breadth, we have
technology breadth. We never say never, but I don’t see why we
would need that.”  Read has been shrinking the company by selling units and
buying back shares, in contrast to his predecessors Jeffrey Kindler, who bought Wyeth for $64 billion in 2009, and Henry McKinnell, who bought Pharmacia for about the same price in
2002. Pfizer will still form partnerships and pursue companies
with treatments in mid- to late-stage testing, Read said.  Pfizer, based in  New York , faces competition from cheaper
generic medicines to at least 19 drugs from 2010 through 2015,
led by the cholesterol pill Lipitor, the world’s best-selling
drug, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors have
rewarded Read’s strategy for dealing with the acquisitions, with
shares climbing about 14 percent since he took over on Dec. 5,
more than double the return of the company’s U.S. peers.  Pfizer may also buy over-the-counter medicines to bolster
its consumer health unit with ‘bolt-on’ deals that fit with
existing product lines, said Chief Financial Officer Frank D’Amelio.  ‘Good Business’  “It’s a good business today, and to the extent that we can
continue to supplement that business to make it better, we
will,” D’Amelio said in a telephone interview.  Pfizer is selling its animal health and infant formula
units to buy back shares and focus on developing new drugs, Read
said July 7. The units may fetch $22 billion, according to
Seamus Fernandez, a Boston-based analyst at Leerink Swann & Co.  After a review, the company decided to keep its consumer
business and its established products unit, which makes generic
and off-patent drugs that Pfizer determined were needed to
compete in fast-growing emerging markets, Read said today.  Pfizer today reported second-quarter net income rose 5.2
percent to $2.61 billion, or 33 cents a share, from $2.48
billion, or 31 cents, a year earlier. The company reiterated its
2011 profit forecast range of $2.16 to $2.26 a share and
maintained its guidance for 2012, the first full year of generic
competition to Lipitor.  Pfizer fell 87 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $18.14 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
underperforming the 2.6 percent decline in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index. Shares have climbed 17 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 