-- 
Pfizer Profit Beats Analyst Estimates on Pain Drug Sales, Weakening Dollar

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-08-02T20:16:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/pfizer-profit-beats-estimates-on-pain-drug-sales.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, reported second-quarter profit that topped analyst
estimates as sales of pain medicines offset declining revenue
from expired patents.  Profit excluding some items was 60 cents a share, beating
by a cent the average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Revenue fell 0.9 percent to $16.98 billion, matching
estimates. Sales of the New York-based company’s Lyrica pain
pill and Enbrel arthritis medicine topped analyst predictions.  Pfizer is selling its animal health and infant formula
units and trimming its workforce to prepare for the loss in
November of exclusive rights to Lipitor, the world’s best-
selling drug with $10.7 billion in annual sales. Pfizer has
three late-stage experimental medicines that analysts estimate
may bring in more than $3.5 billion annually by 2015.  “Investors are shifting their focus back to the pipeline,
shifting back to the cost cutting and the share repurchases,”
said Damien Conover, an analyst at Morningstar Inc., in a
telephone interview. “We probably have one more quarter where
the divestitures will be of high interest, but people are going
back to the core business.”  Net income rose 5.2 percent to $2.61 billion, or 33 cents a
share, from $2.48 billion, or 31 cents, a year earlier, the
company said. Pfizer reiterated its 2011 profit forecast range
of $2.16 to $2.26 a share. It also maintained its guidance for
2012, the first full year of generic competition to Lipitor.  Pfizer fell 87 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $18.14 in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading, underperforming the 2.6
percent decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Shares have
climbed 17 percent in the past 12 months.  Dollar Decline  “Overall, results were pretty much in line with what
everybody expected,” said  Barbara Ryan , an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG, in a telephone interview. “I don’t think there was
anything here to get people excited, but I’m not sure there was
anything negative either.”  The dollar’s slide against other currencies helped boost
revenue by 4 percentage points as sales outside the U.S. were
converted to a weakening dollar. Pfizer last year received 57
percent of its revenue from outside its home country, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The dollar fell 14 percent from
the end of 2010’s second quarter to June 30 of this year, as
measured against a basket of six other currencies.  Breaking Up  Pfizer Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read  said on July 7 he
is divesting the company’s animal health and nutrition units to
buy back shares and focus on developing new drugs. The units may
fetch $22 billion, according to Seamus Fernandez, an analyst at
Leerink Swann & Co.  Revenue at Pfizer’s animal health division jumped 18
percent to $1.056 billion for the quarter, the company reported
today. Nutrition sales climbed 4 percent to $493 million.  “Equity investors are pressuring management to do more in
the way of splitting up the company than just exploring
strategic alternatives for nutrition and animal health,” said
Carol Levenson, director of research at Gimme Credit LLC in
 Chicago , in a note to clients. “Obviously a more extensive
splitup would have implications for bondholders, likely negative
ones.”  Sales of Pfizer’s Enbrel arthritis treatment rose 13
percent $914 million for the quarter. The pain pill Lyrica
increased 19 percent to $908 million. Sales of legacy pain
products gained in the $3.3 billion acquisition of King
Pharmaceuticals Inc. in March added $357 million in sales,
Pfizer reported.  Nine of the world’s 15 best-selling medicines will lose
patent protection during the next five years. Chief among these
products is Lipitor, which lost market exclusivity in Spain and
 Canada  last year and will have generic U.S. competition in
November.  Lipitor Sales  Lipitor had sales of $2.59 billion in the second quarter
beating the $2.43 billion Fernandez estimated. Sales will
decline by half next year after generics makers flood the U.S.
market with cheaper copies, according to eight analysts
surveyed.  In addition to Lipitor, Pfizer loses patent exclusivity to
at least 18 drugs from 2010 through 2015, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Those drugs were responsible for $25.6
billion in 2009 revenue, or 60 percent of the company’s revenue.  Pfizer’s most promising experimental drugs are its apixaban
blood thinner, tofacitinib for rheumatoid arthritis and
crizotinib for  lung cancer . Crizotinib was accepted for priority
review by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, with a decision
expected by year’s end. Pfizer has said it will seek approval of
tofacitinib and apixaban this year. The company partners with
New York-based Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. on apixaban.  Pfizer is also awaiting a decision from the FDA on whether
it can market Prevnar to adults. Two studies presented in May
found the shot was effective in adults over the age of 50,
supporting the company’s application.  Sales of pneumonia vaccines Prevnar and Prevnar13 rose 44
percent to $821 million, falling short of Fernandez’s $1.08
billion estimate. Pfizer said U.S. Prevnar sales were hampered
by changes in the timing of bulk purchases.  Pfizer acquired Enbrel and Prevnar in the $68 billion
purchase of Wyeth in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 