-- 
Philadelphia Eagles’ Super Bowl Odds Narrowed to 6-1 After Asomugha Signed

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-02T13:16:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/philadelphia-eagles-super-bowl-odds-narrowed-to-6-1-after-asomugha-signed.html
The  Philadelphia Eagles  joined the
New England Patriots and  Green Bay Packers  as Super Bowl
favorites among Las Vegas oddsmakers after adding Nnamdi Asomugha and two other top defensive free agents.  The Eagles’ championship odds at the Las Vegas Hilton’s
Race and Sports Book dropped to 6-1 from 12-1 after a week in
which they added Pro Bowl cornerback Asomugha plus defensive
tackle Cullen Jenkins and defensive end Jason Babin.  Philadelphia, 21st out of 32 National Football League teams
in points allowed last season, also picked up cornerback
Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie in a trade that sent quarterback
 Kevin Kolb  to the  Arizona Cardinals .  “You want to accomplish that one common goal and that’s
winning the  Super Bowl ,” Eagles quarterback  Michael Vick  told
reporters. “This is my time, this is our time and we’re going
to try to make the most of it.”  The Patriots and Packers still have 6-1 Super Bowl odds at
the Las Vegas Hilton. The Patriots added free-agent wide
receiver Chad Ochocinco and defensive tackle Albert Haynesworth,
while the defending-champion Packers lost Jenkins to the Eagles
and re-signed receiver  James Jones .  They’re followed by the Pittsburgh Steelers, whose odds are
10-1 after being listed at 12-1 a week ago following the end of
the NFL’s 4 1/2-month lockout.  The New York Jets’ championship odds of 12-1 are the same
as before the start of the free-agent period, during which the
team added receiver Plaxico Burress and re-signed cornerback
 Antonio Cromartie  and receiver  Santonio Holmes . The Jets, who
fell one win short of the Super Bowl the past two seasons, also
lost linebacker Jason Taylor and receiver/kick returner  Brad Smith .  ‘Not Done’  “We have an outstanding football team, but when I look at
it defensively -- and there are still some things in play --
we’re not done,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said during a news
conference yesterday. “We could add a couple players that could
probably really help us. But I feel great about where we are.”  Also with odds of 12-1 are the  New Orleans Saints  and
 Atlanta Falcons . The  Indianapolis Colts  have Super Bowl odds of
15-1, along with the  Baltimore Ravens  and  San Diego Chargers ,
according to the Las Vegas Hilton.  The  New York Giants , who gave permission yesterday for Pro
Bowl defensive end Osi Umenyiora to work out a trade, have had
their championship odds rise to 20-1 from 15-1.  “We have some changing parts in our defense,” Giants
defensive coordinator Perry Fewell told reporters. “Some
personnel have left and we really won’t know the makeup of our
defense for several weeks now.”  The Packers entered the 2010 season with 10-1 odds to win
the Super Bowl, tied for sixth among the NFL’s 32 teams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  