-- 
Philippine Stocks: Philippine Savings, Phoenix, Security Bank

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-08-02T04:29:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/philippine-stocks-philippine-savings-bank-phoenix-sm-prime.html
Shares of the following companies had
unusual moves in Philippine trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the noon close in Manila  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index fell 0.2 percent to
4,541.23, after closing at a record yesterday.  Philippine Savings Bank (PSB)   climbed 2.2 percent to 70
pesos, the highest close since the shares started trading in
October 1994, after the lender said it will pay 15 centavos a
share in dividends.  Phoenix Petroleum Philippines Inc. (PNX)  , a gasoline
retailer, declined 1.7 percent to 11.60 pesos, the biggest drop
since July 20. Phoenix’s net income in the April-to-June period
slipped to 120 million pesos ($2.86 million), from 185 million
pesos in the first quarter, the company said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Security Bank Corp. (SECB)   climbed 4.8 percent to 93.90
pesos, an all-time high, on speculation the lender will report
improved earnings after its bigger rivals posted gains in net
income, according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  “Investors are positioning ahead of the company’s results
because among the mid-sized banks, Security Bank mirrors the
performance of the nation’s biggest lenders,” Alex Pomento, a
Manila-based strategist at Macquarie, said by phone today.  SM Prime Holdings Inc. (SMPH)  , the nation’s biggest mall
developer, advanced 1.6 percent to 11.76 pesos, the highest
close since July 8, after JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts
reiterated an “overweight” rating on the stock, citing the
company’s accelerating earnings growth.  SM Prime “remains our top pick in the Philippine property
sector,” analysts Gilbert Lopez and Christopher Gee wrote in a
report dated today. “The acceleration in growth indicates its
business is more than just resilient.” First-half profit
increased 14 percent, SM Prime said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  