-- 
JPMorgan Asks Judge to Throw Out $19 Billion Lawsuit by Madoff Trustee

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-08-02T21:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/picard-seeks-to-salvage-mets-owners-lawsuit-after-ruling.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  asked a judge to
dismiss a $19 billion lawsuit by the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm, saying the trustee lacks “standing” to bring
common-law claims against the bank.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff last week threw out trustee
 Irving Picard ’s bid for almost $9 billion in damages from  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and feeder funds, ruling Picard has no right to sue
using common-law claims against parties “who allegedly violated
a duty to Madoff Securities’ customers by failing to detect
Madoff’s fraud.” Citing the decision, JPMorgan asked Judge
 Colleen McMahon , who is handling its dispute with Picard, to
toss out similar demands.  “As Judge Rakoff held in the HSBC case, the trustee has no
standing to bring customer damages claims,” the New York-based
bank said in a filing yesterday.  Picard has more than trebled his demand for damages from
the bank, alleging it knew about the fraud because Madoff had
his accounts there. The sum is “apparently the full amount of
all customer losses resulting from Madoff’s fraud,” JPMorgan,
which has denied such knowledge, said in the filing.  Separately, UBS AG, saying Picard sued it for more than $2
billion based on common-law claims of aiding and abetting the
fraud, asked McMahon to bar the trustee from seeking such
damages.  Lawsuit ‘Expected’  The JPMorgan and UBS filings were “expected,” said Picard
spokeswoman Amanda Remus. The Madoff trustee is preparing to sue
HSBC for $2 billion in  bankruptcy court , she has said.  Much of the $100 billion Picard is seeking on behalf of
Madoff clients from banks such as JPMorgan involves similar
claims to the HSBC case, or other claims being scrutinized by
the two district judges. More courtroom wins against him would
reduce the amount he can take in.  “Picard was pushing the envelope in his zeal to recover
against alleged wrongdoers and overlooked existing constraints
and precedents as pointed out by Judge Rakoff,” New York
bankruptcy lawyer  Harvey Miller  said last week.  In his HSBC ruling, the judge said Picard, who was hired to
liquidate the Madoff firm, doesn’t have a right to bring his
common-law claims on behalf of Madoff customers or the estate. A
doctrine sometimes known as “clean hands” bars the
representative of a fraudulent estate from suing “to recover a
wrong” that the estate took part in, he said.  ‘Back Door’  JPMorgan, which accused the trustee of mounting a “back
door” class action suit against it on behalf of Madoff clients,
said the trustee’s suit “never delivers” on its claim to tell
the “true story” of how JPMorgan was “thoroughly complicit”
in Madoff’s crimes.  “The trustee never alleges facts showing that anyone at
JPMorgan had actual knowledge of Madoff’s crimes,” it said.  For that reason, the bank said Picard’s bankruptcy claims
should also be dismissed, including a demand to recover a $145
million loan to the Madoff firm, plus interest and loan fees.
JPMorgan’s fees for banking services to Madoff were a “modest”
$590,000 over six years, it said.  Picard is due to answer the bank on Sept. 1.  The trustee also will try to salvage his $1 billion lawsuit
against New York Mets owners  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz this
month after Rakoff ruled in the HSBC case that he can’t stray
too far from bankruptcy law.  Fictitious Profit  Picard said in a July 22 court filing that he demanded the
$1 billion from the Mets owners using only bankruptcy laws that
allow debtors to take money back from lenders and investors.
That includes $300 million in fictitious profit and $700 million
in principal, which Picard claimed they owed him because they
didn’t probe signs of fraud at Madoff’s firm.  His claim on the principal may not survive if Rakoff
rejects the theory that investors have a duty to investigate
their money managers. The Mets owners may not have had a legal
duty under federal law to investigate whether Madoff was running
a fraud, Rakoff said at a July 1 court hearing.  Remus declined to comment on Rakoff’s remarks.  “If Rakoff rules that there wasn’t a duty to investigate,
and appeal judges agree, Picard at best will get $300 million
from the Mets owners,” said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer at
Greenebaum Doll & McDonald PLLC in Louisville,  Kentucky , who
isn’t involved in the case.  ‘Tunnel Vision’  At the July 1 hearing, Rakoff said he would take the Mets
owners’ case out of bankruptcy court to decide the issue of
duty, acceding to a request by the owners of the Major League
Baseball team. The Mets owners are due to reply to the trustee
on Aug. 12, before a court hearing on Aug. 19.  “It doesn’t seem to me to be self-evident that bankruptcy
law sets the duty of inquiry that a customer of a brokerage
has,” Rakoff said. One danger of specialized courts such as for
bankruptcy is “something of a tunnel vision,” he said.  Separately, a bankruptcy judge yesterday declined to
dismiss Picard’s $245 million suit against Cohmad Securities
Corp., the stock brokerage co-founded by the con man. Picard
will seek to recover fraudulent transfers and commissions,
spokeswoman Remus said today.  Picard and his  law firm , Baker & Hostetler LLP, have
collected about $179 million in fees for work since Madoff’s
2008 arrest. Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a
federal prison in  North Carolina .  The bankruptcy court case is Picard v. Katz, 1:10-ap-05287,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ). The review is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 