-- 
Polish Cabinet Backs Loosening of Natural-Gas Reserve Rules

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-08-02T14:24:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/polish-cabinet-backs-loosening-of-natural-gas-reserve-rules.html
Poland ’s cabinet today supported
changes to the law on gas reserves, seeking to free up a market
dominated by former monopoly  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA. (PGN)   Companies will be allowed to store fuel in other European
Union or European Free Trade Association countries as long as
they can deliver it within 40 days, the Polish government said
in an e-mailed statement today. The new rules must be approved
by parliament.  The bill would allow companies buying gas for their own
use, such as chemical makers and  power plants , to import fuel
without having to keep reserves. Additionally, gas suppliers
seeking to enter the Polish market will be able to ask for an
exemption from the storage requirement.  The new law will “undoubtedly” help new suppliers enter
the market, Joanna Zakrzewska, Gornictwo’s spokeswoman, said by
phone today. “We see it as a positive step toward market
liberalization,” she said.  Gaz-System SA, the state-owned operator of the country’s
gas-transmission pipelines, plans to expand its links with
 Germany  and the  Czech Republic  to increase capacity by 1.1
billion cubic meters a year. The company is also building a
liquefied natural gas import terminal on the Baltic Sea to help
cut reliance on Russian imports. Poland imports about 10 billion
cubic meters a year, or about two-thirds of its annual
consumption, from  Russia .  Gaz-System received record 28 offers from potential
importers, including European gas traders, chemical producers
and energy utilities for the additional 600 cubic meters of
capacity on the German boarder connection, spokeswoman
Malgorzata Polkowska said by phone today, declining to name the
bidders. The operator plans to sign deals with bidders by the
end of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  