-- 
Primavera’s Fred Hu Says China Is Seeing ‘Meaningful Slowdown’

-- B y   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-08-02T01:21:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/primavera-s-fred-hu-says-china-is-seeing-meaningful-slowdown-.html
Fred Hu, founder and chairman of
Beijing-based financial advisory firm Primavera Capital Group
and a former chairman of Greater  China  for Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., comments on  China’s economy  and the nation’s holdings of
U.S. Treasuries.  He spoke in a Bloomberg Television interview from Beijing
today.  On a slowdown in the Chinese economy:  “All the battery of data that have come out in recent
months clearly paint a picture of a meaningful slowdown of the
economy, whether it’s in manufacturing, in the service sector.  “Small and medium-sized enterprises in China now are
really, really suffering from a credit crunch and are under
severe pressure, laying off people and even shutting down their
operations.  “There has been a clear slowdown. But that might be just
what the doctor has ordered to bring inflation under control.”  On whether China is selling U.S. Treasuries:  “I don’t think so.” The growth in China’s foreign-
exchange reserves “is a reflection of China’s overall balance
of payments and macroeconomic and structural policies. As long
as China continues to pile up foreign reserves, there’s little
choice but holding massive  U.S. debt .  “But a possible downgrade of U.S. debt also means
investors would have to assess the underlying credit quality a
lot more carefully.”  On China’s diversification of its foreign-exchange reserves:  “Diversification is necessary but it only goes so far.
After all, what are the better alternatives for China? A
reassessment of China’s macroeconomic and structural policies
would be far more important than merely portfolio
diversification.  “There’s no realistic chance China would ever have a
dramatic shift in selling U.S. debt.”  On China’s reaction to yesterday’s approval by the U.S. House of
Representatives of legislation to raise the debt limit:  “Beijing has clearly greeted this news with a sigh of
relief.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  