-- 
Prudential to Post Biggest Profit Increase Among U.K. Insurers

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-02T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/prudential-may-post-faster-profit-growth-than-u-k-competitors-l-g-aviva.html
Prudential Plc (PRU) , the U.K.’s biggest
insurer, will probably post faster growth in first-half profit
than U.K. competitors  Aviva Plc (AV/)  and  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN)  as
demand grew for annuities in the U.S. and insurance in  Asia .  Prudential will likely say operating profit rose 11 percent
to 935 million pounds ($1.5 billion) in the first six months of
2011, according to the median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Aviva may post a 1 percent increase in profit, and
Legal & General a 6.8 percent decline, the data show.  Prudential makes 25 percent its profit from Asia, 35
percent in the U.S. and 40 percent in the U.K., according to its
2010 results. London-based Aviva and Legal & General, Britain’s
second and fourth-biggest insurers respectively, may struggle to
match Prudential’s earnings growth because they get most of
their profit from the U.K. and  Europe , analysts said.  Prudential’s U.S. division “seemed to have survived the
credit crunch with much better performance than some of the
other variable annuity players who have experienced big
losses,” said Gordon Aitken, a London-based analyst at Royal
Bank of Canada who rates the stock an “outperform.” “Top-line
growth in Asia will outstrip that of the U.S. and U.K.”  Prudential’s profit from Asia will still rise 17 percent to
307 million pounds from a year ago, according to Barrie Cornes,
an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in London. Profit from the
U.K., which includes Prudential’s asset management income, may
increase 7 percent to 506 million pounds, said Cornes, who rates
the stock a “buy.”  Shares Drop  Shares of U.K. insurers, like their European competitors,
have tumbled 5.7 percent in the last six months, as measured by
the  FTSE ASX Life Insurance (FALIFE)  Index, due to the European debt
crisis and concern U.S. politicians would fail to reach an
agreement on raising the country’s debt ceiling. Prudential is
down 5.3 percent in the period and Legal & General 5.2 percent.
Aviva, which has operations in  Spain , Ireland,  Italy  and  France ,
has dropped 14 percent.  Analysts expect the insurers to raise their dividends after
bolstering capital reserves in the last two years. Prudential,
based in London, will probably boost its first-half dividend
20.3 percent to 7.95 pence a share, according to six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Aviva’s operating profit will probably rise 1 percent to
1.28 billion pounds as slow economic growth in Italy and Spain
and lower U.S. sales crimped earnings, according to 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The company will still be able to raise
its first-half dividend 5.7 percent to 10.04 pence.  Legal & General  Legal & General will also boost its first-half dividend
after raising it 24 percent in the second half of last year,
according to six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company has
boosted  cash flow  by switching to products such as self-invested
personal pensions that generate faster profits than investment
bonds.  Legal & General’s earnings may be eroded as a drop in U.K.
corporate bond yields forces annuity providers to set aside more
capital to cover future liabilities. Insurers had benefited from
the surge in bond yields during the financial crisis of 2008,
which allowed them to use less capital to meet their
obligations. That will cause first-half operating profit to fall
6.8 percent to 505 million pounds, according to the median
estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
All figures are in millions of pounds, unless otherwise stated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  