-- 
Putin May Return as President, Buoying Ruble, Citigroup Says

-- B y   K i r a   S a v c e n k o
-- 
2011-08-02T15:37:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/putin-may-return-as-president-buoying-ruble-citigroup-says.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  is
likely to return as Russia’s President after next year’s
elections, spurring gains in the ruble, according to analysts at
Citigroup Inc.  “The consensus view is that Putin will return as the
President, based on our discussions with local political
analysts as well as market participants,” Elina Ribakova and
 Natalia Novikova , analysts at Citigroup, wrote in a report dated
yesterday.  While Putin is perceived as “less friendly towards the
West,” differences with the current president Dmitry Medvedev
are “minor” and have been priced in by currency traders,
according to the report. “Mild appreciation pressure on the
ruble” is expected over the coming months, the analysts wrote.  Election uncertainty spurred a net $21.3 billion of capital
outflows from  Russia  in the first quarter of this year and an
estimated $9.9 billion in the second quarter, according to  the
central bank . At least five companies have abandoned initial
public offerings this year, including OAO Russian Helicopters
and OAO Siberian Coal Energy Co. in May.  Market consensus is emerging that “political uncertainty”
is less of a threat to capital than it was earlier in the year,
said the analysts. Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin is “the key
to macro stability,” they wrote.  Neither Medvedev nor Putin has ruled out running for
president in 2012. Putin, who served as president from 2000 to
2008, can return to the Kremlin without violating the
constitutional ban on three consecutive terms.  The ruble closed unchanged against the dollar at 27.80 as
of 7 p.m. in Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kira Savcenko in London at 
 ksavcenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  