-- 
Rand Slips for Second Day Against Dollar as Stocks Fall on Growth Concern

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-02T15:43:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/rand-gains-versus-euro-on-concern-slowing-growth-may-worsen-eu-debt-crisis.html
The rand weakened for a second day
against the dollar as stocks and commodity prices tumbled on
concern a slowing global economy will damp demand for raw
materials. Bonds gained, pushing yields to seven-month lows.  The rand slipped as much as 0.5 percent to 6.7719 per
dollar, and traded 0.2 percent down at 6.7512 as of 4:58 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  South Africa ’s currency appreciated 0.1 percent to
9.5972 per euro.  Emerging-market stocks fell the most in three weeks after
U.S. consumer spending unexpectedly dropped in June for the
first time in almost two years and investors speculated  China 
will raise  interest rates  this month. South Africa’s benchmark
stock index declined to a five-week low, led by mining companies
including BHP Billiton Ltd. and Anglo American Plc.  “The focus has turned very firmly back to growth and it
would appear as though the global economy is headed for a
significant slowdown,” Tradition Analytics strategists led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in a research note.
“The financial markets are pricing themselves for a significant
slowdown in South  Africa ’s main trading partners.”  The rand extended its decline as the euro weakened versus
the dollar amid investor concern that slowing economic growth
will worsen the euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The 17-nation European currency fell to the lowest level
against the dollar since July 21 after reports on manufacturing
yesterday suggested growth in the euro region is slowing.
Italian bonds fell, sending the yield on the 10-year securities
to the highest since 1997 and pushing the additional yield
investors demand to hold the debt instead of benchmark German
bunds to euro era records.  ‘Euro Pressure’  “The euro has been under pressure as risk aversion rises
and as the Italian bond markets come under pressure,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, currency strategists at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in a research note.  Bonds rose for a third day on speculation signs South
Africa’s economic recovery is faltering will persuade the
central bank to leave borrowing costs at a three-decade low even
as inflation quickens.  The 6.75 percent notes due 2021 climbed 47 cents to 91.10
rand, driving the yield down eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 8.09 percent, the lowest since Jan. 5.  South African vehicle sales rose at a slower pace in July
than the month before as unemployment increased and economic
growth eased in Africa’s largest economy, the National
Association of Automobile Manufacturers of South Africa said in
an e-mailed statement today. The nation’s purchasing managers
index dropped to a two-year low in June, Kagiso Tiso Holdings
said yesterday.  “A weak economy remains bullish for local bonds,”
Tradition wrote. “The market is prioritizing the weak growth
outlook over the recent uptick in CPI inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  