-- 
Rate-Futures Yields Tumble as Inflation Slows: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-08-02T21:43:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/rate-futures-yields-tumble-as-inflation-slows-mexico-credit.html
Yields on Mexican interest-rate
futures contracts are falling the most in three months on
speculation slowing inflation will prompt the central bank to
keep borrowing costs at a record low until May.  Yields on the 28-day futures due in May, known as TIIE,
fell 11 basis points in the past week, the most since May 10, to
4.99 percent. The contracts show traders are betting  Banco de
Mexico , the only central bank in a major Latin American country
to leave rates unchanged in the past year, will wait until May
to raise it from 4.5 percent. Brazilian futures suggest policy
makers will keep their rate unchanged for the remainder of 2011
after lifting it five times this year to 12.50 percent.  Traders in Mexico have delayed their rate bets 11 times
this year as slumping growth in  Latin America ’s second-biggest
economy keeps inflation near a five-year low. Annual inflation
slowed to 3.28 percent in June from 3.69 percent a year earlier.
Consumer prices in  Brazil , the region’s biggest economy, rose at
an annual rate of 6.75 percent in mid-July, the fastest in six
years.  “Inflation has been behaving very well and I expect it to
continue behaving well,” Alberto Bernal, head of fixed-income
research for Miami-based Bulltick Capital Markets, said in a
telephone interview from Bogota,  Colombia . “Growth is
undershooting my forecasts.”  Yields on the Mexican government’s peso bonds due in 2024
tumbled 127 basis points, or 1.19 percentage point, since the
end of March to 6.56 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  U.S. Growth  Economists expect Banco de Mexico’s five-member board, led
by Governor Agustin Carstens, to stay on hold until April,
according to the median forecast of 17 economists in a survey
distributed July 20 by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit. In April,
traders expected a rate increase as recently as July.  Press officials at the central bank and  Finance Ministry 
didn’t immediately return calls for comment.  Mounting evidence the  U.S. economy  is slowing is helping
restrain inflation expectations in Mexico, said Javier Belaunzaran, who helps manage about 40 billion pesos ($3.4
billion) at Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City.  Manufacturing in the U.S., which buys about 80 percent of
Mexico’s exports, expanded at the slowest pace in two years in
July, the  Institute for Supply Management  said in a report
yesterday. U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent
annual rate, following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter
that was less than earlier estimated, the Commerce Department
said on July 29. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 1.8 percent increase.  ‘Pessimistic’  “This has to do completely with the economic recovery in
the U.S., which has been a bit disappointing,” Belaunzaran said
in a telephone interview. “The market is pessimistic. You also
have the inflation component very controlled.”  Bulltick’s Bernal said he’s considering pushing back his
forecast for a Mexican rate increase to August 2012 from April
after the Commerce Department’s report on U.S. growth last week.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose nine basis points
to 131 at 5:42 p.m.  New York  time, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose two basis points to 111, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso fell 1.1 percent to 11.8458 per  U.S. dollar .  Inflation Outlook  Inflation will quicken to 3.89 percent in 2011 as
electricity and grain prices rise in the last three months of
the year, said  Benito Berber , a strategist at Nomura Securities
Inc. in New York. The central bank will raise the benchmark rate
in the first quarter of 2012, he said.  The yield gap between Mexican inflation-linked debt due in
2012 and similar-maturity fixed-rate bonds, a gauge of investor
expectations for price increases, widened 50 basis points in the
past month to 464, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The biggest risk for quickening inflation is in the last
quarter of the year,” Berber said in a telephone interview.
“Grain prices and any altering of the gasoline subsidy would
also affect inflation.”  Mexican economists cut their forecasts for year-end
inflation to 3.54 percent from 3.56 percent last month,
according to a survey released yesterday by the central bank.  “Inflation expectations remain very well-anchored,”
Alejandro Padilla, a debt strategist at Grupo Financiero
Banorte-Ixe, said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  