-- 
U.S. 30-Year Yield Falls Below 4 Percent on Debt Deal Vote, Slow Economy

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-02T21:26:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/treasury-yield-is-two-basis-points-from-year-s-low-before-consumer-data.html
Treasury 30-year bonds rallied the
most in more than a year as the Senate approved a debt-limit
increase and a report showed personal spending unexpectedly fell
in June, reinforcing speculation the economy is slowing.  U.S. 10-year note yields reached the lowest this year as
President  Barack Obama  signed a bill to raise the U.S. debt
limit by at least $2.1 trillion, averting by hours a first-ever
U.S. financial default, while investors cautioned the nation’s
credit rating may be cut. Yields on Italian and Spanish bonds
climbed as investors sought a refuge from  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt turmoil.  “There’s so much uncertainty out there and negative
economic news that we’ve seen continued moves in Treasuries,”
said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors. “The Senate vote wasn’t a shocking
move. What’s going on is a lot of nervousness.”  Yields on 30-year bonds dropped 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 3.91 percent at 5:23 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It fell 18 basis
points earlier to touch 3.9 percent in the biggest drop since
May 2010. The 4.375 percent securities maturing in May 2041 rose
3 3/32, or $30.94 per $1,000 face amount, to 108 5/32.  Yield Quotes  The 10-year note yields touched 2.60 percent, the lowest
since Nov. 9. The seven-day relative strength index of the 10-
year note yield dropped below 30, indicating a reversal of
direction may be imminent.  The yields on two-year notes decreased five basis points to
0.32 percent, or almost the record low of 0.312 percent reached
Nov. 4.  The yield on 30-year bonds fell to within 3.61 percentage
points of two-year securities, the narrowest since November,
from the 2011 high of 4 percentage points reached Jan. 28.  Credit-default swaps on  U.S. debt  were 54.46 today,
according to CMA. They closed at 62 on July 29.  The risk of a U.S. sovereign default remains “extremely
low,”  Fitch Ratings  said. Still, the U.S. needs to confront
“tough” choices on tax and spending against a weak economic
backdrop if the  budget deficit  is to be cut to safer levels over
the medium term, Fitch said.  Fitch said it expects to conclude its scheduled review of
the U.S. sovereign rating by the end of August.  Bill Rates  Rates on the $90 billion in six-month bills due Aug. 4
dropped today to 0.025 percent. The rate rose to 0.3 percent on
July 29, the highest since they were issued in February, on
concern Congress wouldn’t raise the debt limit by the deadline
of today.  “The market is ready to move on,” said  Anthony Cronin , a
trader in New York at Societe Generale SA. “More customers are
coming into the bill market now that default has been taken off
the table.”  Investors also sought the safety of government debt as the
yield on 10-year Italian bonds rose to 6.25 percent, the most
since 1997, amid concern slowing growth will hamper efforts to
tame European debt loads. The yield on Spanish 10-year debt
climbed to 6.46 percent, the most since 1997. German 10-year
bund yields dropped to an eight-month low.  For all the anxiety among politicians and their
constituents over playing chicken with the debt ceiling and the
prospect of the first-ever downgrade of U.S. debt, the people
with the most at stake made more money buying  Treasury
securities  in July than any month this year. They made $183,000
for every $10 million invested.  Bond Buys  Investors from  Argentina  to  New Zealand  snapped up Uncle
Sam’s bonds in the $9.34 trillion market. U.S. government debt
returned 1.83 percent in July, about three times more than the
rest of the global sovereign  bond market , Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  Treasury officials will keep the total of next week’s
auctions of three-, 10- and 30-year securities at $72 billion as
the government is close to passing a bill to raise its debt
limit, primary dealers forecast.  The U.S. will sell $32 billion of three-year notes, $24
billion of 10-year debt and $16 billion of 30-year bonds next
week, according to 16 of the primary dealers, which are required
to bid in Treasury auctions. The amounts are the same as the
grouping of auctions of these maturities sold in May.  Refunding Outlook  “It’s not clear that they necessarily need to raise or
decrease the size of the auction, so leaving it the same is the
best way to go for now,” said Thomas Simons, a government debt
economist in New York at Jefferies Group Inc., a primary dealer.  The Senate voted 74-26 for the debt-limit measure, which
raises the nation’s debt ceiling until 2013 and threatens
automatic spending cuts to enforce $2.4 trillion in spending
reductions over the next 10 years. The House passed the plan
yesterday.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said the compromise reached
by Congress won’t make a “significant dent” in the deficit.  “In addition to an existing nearly $10 trillion of
outstanding Treasury debt, the U.S. has a near unfathomable $66
trillion of future liabilities at net present cost,” Gross
wrote in a monthly investment outlook posted on the  Newport
Beach , California-based company’s website today.  Credit Review  Standard & Poor’s  placed the U.S. AAA rating on
“CreditWatch” July 14, saying there’s a 50 percent chance it
would be cut within 90 days even if an agreement is reached by
the deadline. S&P said it needs to see “a credible solution to
the rising  U.S. government debt  burden.”  Consumer purchases decreased 0.2 percent in June, after a
0.1 percent gain the prior month, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The median estimate of 77 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.1 percent increase.
Incomes grew at the slowest pace since November and the savings
rate climbed.  Employers failed to create enough positions in July to
reduce joblessness, a separate survey showed before the Labor
Department’s payrolls report Aug. 5.  “The data is disappointing,” Cronin said. “It reinforces
the weak economic news we’ve gotten in the last week. The data
will help to defend against any dip in prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  