-- 
Three Terrorist Attacks I Worry About the Most: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-08-02T00:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/three-terrorist-attacks-i-worry-about-the-most-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Yehuda Etzion, a former member of a
Jewish terrorist group in the  West Bank , once drove me to the
top of the Mount of Olives, to a ridge above the Garden of
Gethsemane, and asked me to look out across the valley, to the
Temple Mount on the far side.  Shimmering in the sunlight was the Dome of the Rock, one of
the world’s most important Muslim shrines. I said that the Dome
was beautiful. Etzion answered that he didn’t even see it.  I asked him what he meant. “Look, maybe it’s beautiful,” he
said.“But my father told me once that there are very many nice
women in the world, beautiful women, but you have only one wife.
This building is not my woman. It’s my enemy’s woman. So I don’t
see it.”  I asked him what he saw instead. “I see the place where the
Temple will stand.”  The Temple in question is the yet-unbuilt Third Temple, which
certain Jews of a messianic bent believe should be built atop
the Mount (site of the first two Jewish Temples), in place of
the Dome of the Rock. But how to remove the Dome? Etzion and his
fellow extremists once plotted to blow it up. The Israeli
internal security service, the Shabak, caught them and sent them
to jail before any damage could be done. Etzion told me he
didn’t regret the plot, only that it didn’t work.  It could still work, however. There are still Jewish
extremists roaming the Old City of  Jerusalem , and some West Bank
Jewish settlements are still home to men who believe they could
hasten the coming of the messiah by igniting a cataclysmic war
with Islam. I’ve met these men -- rabbis among them -- and they
believe that God would save Israel if the Muslim world rose up
in anger at the destruction of what one rabbi called “the
abomination.”  They are right about one thing: The Muslim world would ignite
if the Dome were attacked.  Clash of Civilizations  The terrorist who imagines himself to be not merely an agent
of the aggrieved, but the salvation of his civilization -- these
are the ones to fear. Anders Behring Breivik, who killed 77
people July 22 in  Norway  because he believed  Europe  was under
threat from Islam and multiculturalism, is the new archetype.  The ambitious terrorist of this moment in history seeks not
simply to kill large numbers of innocent people, or to terrify
an even greater number of people. He seeks nothing less than to
provoke the thing we have so far mainly been able to avoid: a
clash of civilizations.  Three attacks, in particular, I worry could have such world-
changing effects. A plot against the Dome of the Rock is one.  Another would be an attack inside the U.S. of the kind that
just took place in Norway -- an assault by a white, Christian
extremist agitated by the imagined specter of worldwide Muslim
domination, either against a government target, in the Oklahoma
City and Oslo manner, or against a Muslim target.  Febrile Minds  A deadly attack prompted by anxiety about the building of
mosques, for instance, would do irreparable harm to America’s
image as a diverse and welcoming refuge, and could trigger the
clash of civilizations extremists (both anti-Muslim Americans
and anti-American Muslims) so desperately seek.  Is this a possibility? Spend time on  websites  devoted to
stopping the coming invasion of the American court system by
Muslim law -- an invasion that exists only in the febrile minds
of anti-Muslim agitators -- or visit the  sites  devoted to
keeping mosques out of places like Murfreesboro,  Tennessee . It’s
not hard to imagine that an unstable person with access to
explosives would try to carry these campaigns to their logical
conclusions.  Of course, the main terrorist threat to global security still
emanates from Islamist groups: al-Qaeda, Qaeda affiliates and
those inspired by the Qaeda message. But al-Qaeda itself has
little ability now to launch a world-changing attack.  The Lashkar Threat  That ability resides with another Islamist organization,
the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba, which has links to the
Pakistani intelligence service. Lashkar unleashed the
devastating attack on Mumbai in November 2008 that killed 164.
That attack, terrible as it was, did not lead to war between
India and  Pakistan  only because  India ’s government made the
deliberate decision not to retaliate.  But a second terrorist spectacular in Mumbai? The Indian
defense minister, Pallam Raju, said in June that “if a
provocation is to happen again, it would be hard to justify to
our people self-restraint.” And Pakistan -- which still views
India as a hegemonic Hindu power dominating Muslims across the
subcontinent -- would surely respond to an Indian reprisal with
force. These two states, with massive armies and impressive
atomic arsenals, could spiral toward a nuclear exchange.  Targets Are Exposed  What’s the likelihood that that any of these three attacks
could happen? In Mumbai, the likelihood is fairly high. Lashkar
is a potent and fanatic group with state support, and Mumbai
remains a vulnerable target, as a fatal bombing showed last
month.  In the U.S., it’s impossible to say. Such is the nature of
lone-wolf terrorism. One day, a Timothy McVeigh or an Anders Breivik is completely unknown to the public and to the
authorities. The next, he has written himself into history.  In  Israel , the Shabak takes the threat of Jewish extremism
quite seriously. But once again, lone wolves or small, self-
radicalized cells are difficult to stop. And the target is
exposed.  A few months ago, I visited a building in the Muslim Quarter
of Jerusalem’s Old City owned by a radical yeshiva. A friend,
sympathetic to my worry, took me to the roof, up a series of
dark, winding staircases. We came out into the sunlight. There,
seemingly close enough to touch, was the golden dome.  “One rocket, fired from right here,” my friend said. He
didn’t have to complete the sentence.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg , a national correspondent for The Atlantic,
is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 