-- 
FAA Funding Bill Stalls in U.S. Senate Until After Recess

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-08-02T21:56:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/reid-may-ask-senate-to-accept-house-faa-extension-bill.html
About 4,000 employees of the  Federal
Aviation Administration  will remain furloughed into September
after U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  failed today to
break the impasse over the agency’s funding.  That deadlock will mean a continued halt to airport
construction projects, including demolition of the old control
tower at  New York ’s LaGuardia Airport, that were stopped when
the agency’s authorization expired July 22. The FAA also is
losing $28.6 million in aviation taxes each day the deadlock
continues,  Laura Brown , an agency spokeswoman, said by
telephone.  Reid said he was prepared to accept the House bill to
extend the FAA’s revenue-raising authority through Sept. 16 and
eliminate subsidies for flights to 13 rural airports, including
one in his home state of  Nevada . Other Senate Democrats refused
to accept the cuts that were in the House bill, Adam Jentleson,
a spokesman for Reid, said in an e-mail. The impasse cannot be
resolved until Congress returns from its recess Sept. 6.  “Four thousand air-travel employees are out of work and
safety inspectors are working without pay because Republicans
are playing reckless games with airline safety,” Jentleson
said.  Republican senators yesterday blocked efforts by Senator
Jay Rockefeller to offer two counter-proposals, one that dropped
the rural airport subsidies and another to cut $71 million from
the program. The West Virginia Democrat is chairman of the
Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee.  Coburn, Boxer  The stand-off continued today as Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma stopped Democratic Senator  Barbara Boxer  of
California from bringing up an extension bill without the
subsidy cuts. Boxer prevented Coburn from moving the House’s
version.  To end the FAA furloughs, senators would have to adopt a
proposal that the House could accept by unanimous consent or
approve the House-passed bill without alteration so it could go
directly to the president for his signature.  The furloughs, which exclude air-traffic controllers, are
preventing the FAA from distributing $2.5 billion in grants to
fund airport projects around the U.S., idling 70,000
construction workers, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said.  The FAA has been operating under a series of short-term
extensions since its multiyear reauthorization bill expired
Sept. 30, 2007.  Reid had attempted to push through the House’s bill after
President  Barack Obama , speaking from Washington today, called
on Congress to “break this impasse now, hopefully before the
Senate adjourns, so these folks can get back to work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  