-- 
Republicans Turn to Dealmaker McConnell to Forge Compromise on Debt Limit

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-08-02T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/republicans-turn-to-dealmaker-mcconnell-to-forge-compromise-on-debt-limit.html
While Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  stayed out of the spotlight during much of the
negotiations over the U.S. debt limit, the deal that’s headed
for approval by Congress today has his fingerprints all over it.  Those who have worked with McConnell say that is typical of
the lawmaker from Kentucky, a tight-lipped veteran of 26 years
in the Senate who says little in public while wielding broad
power behind closed doors.  He “tends to be underestimated by the press, because they
don’t see him doing things,” said former Senator  Judd Gregg , a
New Hampshire Republican and longtime ally. “He’s not at the
microphones all the time, so they underestimate his capacity to
do things. And he’s the last person in the Senate you want to
underestimate.”  The deficit-reduction  deal  that is set for a Senate vote
today is largely a product of direct negotiations among
McConnell, President  Barack Obama  and Vice President  Joe Biden ,
as well as Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , House Speaker  John Boehner  and House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi .  The compromise plan, which would cut at least $2.1 trillion
from the budget over 10 years as part of a deal to raise the
debt limit, was approved yesterday in the House.  In the Shadows  McConnell, 69, largely stayed in the shadows, while earlier
talks between Obama and Boehner failed. He kept a low profile
when Boehner then tried to assemble the votes to pass his own
deficit-reduction plan, which cleared the House on a party-line
vote before being killed in the Senate. Reid’s competing plan
was quickly defeated.  Then, just three days before a threatened default,
McConnell said he had reopened negotiations with Obama.  “We’re going to get an agreement in the very near
future,” he said at a July 30 news conference with Boehner.  McConnell played a pivotal role in shaping the final
outcome, determining weeks ago that a grand bargain between the
parties could be elusive and pushing for an approach that would
avert a default under any circumstances.  After weeks of talks with the White House that focused
largely on “low-hanging fruit” -- more than $1 trillion in
cuts both parties could agree to -- McConnell decided during a
July 11 meeting between congressional leaders and Obama that
negotiations for a larger package were futile, said a Republican
aide familiar with the negotiations.  That is because McConnell found out that the White House
wanted only $2 billion of the cuts to occur in the next fiscal
year, meaning deep reductions wouldn’t take place for years, the
aide said.  Political Protection  The next day, McConnell called all Senate Republicans to
the Capitol’s Strom Thurmond room to discuss what he said might
be the only way to avert default: allowing Obama to unilaterally
raise the debt limit by $2.5 trillion in three stages before the
end of his term, yet without Republicans having to support it.  He told the group it was his job as their leader to protect
them politically, said a person who was in the room. He said
that while he also preferred a comprehensive debt deal, that was
unlikely. And a default might spark a backlash against
Republicans that could help Obama escape blame for the economy
in next year’s elections, the person said.  Straight talk is a hallmark of McConnell’s style, said
Michael Franc, vice president for government studies at the
 Heritage Foundation , a Washington-based research group that
promotes free markets.  “He’s been very calculated about when he injects himself
into the narrative and when he takes a lead role,” Franc said.
“His monotone never distracts from the fact that he’s very
clear where he stands.”  Calming the Markets  It wasn’t the first time McConnell’s pragmatism and
willingness to get a deal has taken hold, even if it has meant
alienating some Republicans.  In September 2008, after the financial-bailout legislation
failed in the House and sent financial markets reeling,
McConnell worked with Reid, a Nevada Democrat, to reassure the
markets with pronouncements that the measure would clear
Congress. The two then worked on a package that included tax
breaks and other unrelated provisions some senators wanted, such
as disaster aid and funding for rural schools, to win passage.  Last December, McConnell worked with Obama to extend the
Bush-era tax cuts for two years, agreeing to measures that the
president had sought, including a temporary cut in the  payroll
tax  and the extension of  unemployment benefits .  Kentucky Politics  McConnell also uses his tactical skills in party dealings
in his home state. He has interviewed candidates for local
posts, raised funds for statewide office seekers, and in 1999
helped engineer a Republican takeover of the Kentucky state
Senate when two Democrats switched their party affiliation to
Republican.  One of those one-time Democrats, Kentucky Senator Dan Seum,
said after he told a state Republican official that the
 Democratic Party  had become too liberal for him, McConnell
phoned him next. The two discussed Seum’s political philosophy
and his desire to keep his seniority if he switched, Seum said.
McConnell later arranged a meeting between Seum and other
Republican senators in the living room of McConnell’s Louisville
home to help close the deal.  “He was the coordinator,” Seum said of McConnell’s role
in helping to give Republicans control of the  Kentucky  Senate.
“He was very helpful in paving the way.”  Banning Earmarks  McConnell has long utilized earmarks -- funds that
lawmakers insert in spending bills for pet projects -- to
benefit Kentucky. He resisted the push by some Republican
senators to ban the practice, yet relented after last November’s
elections when House Republican leaders and many Senate
Republicans wanted to bring an end to earmarks to underscore the
party’s push for budget cuts.  McConnell, who was stricken with polio when he was 2 while
his family lived in  Alabama  and didn’t walk until the age of 4,
is no back-slapping politician. He is known less for his warmth
than for relentlessly staying “on message” and rarely showing
emotion.  “He is a supremely disciplined individual and I think part
of this comes from beating polio,” said Al Cross, a longtime
political reporter for the Courier-Journal who is now a
 University of Kentucky  professor. “He developed then the kind
of discipline that we see in him today.”  That discipline, coupled with McConnell’s handling of the
debt-ceiling issue, may help cement his likely bid to become
Senate majority leader should Republicans take control of the
chamber in the 2012 elections.  McConnell is credited with helping Republicans avoid being
labeled obstructionists.  His hunt for the debt agreement heads off the threat of
default that could hurt Republican prospects, said  Jennifer Duffy , Senate editor of the nonpartisan Cook Political Report.  “With his demeanor of calm stewardship, and by helping
 House Republicans  come up with something they can support, he’s
helped the party,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  