-- 
Reserve Bank of Australia Comments on Rate Decision (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 0 8 4 5 8 ]   V i c t o r i a   B a t c h e l o r   [ ]
-- 
2011-08-02T04:40:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/reserve-bank-of-australia-comments-on-rate-decision-text-.html
Following is the  text  of a statement
by  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor Glenn Stevens explaining
the interest-rate decision today:  At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash
rate unchanged at 4.75 percent.  The global economy is continuing its expansion, but the
pace of growth slowed in the June quarter. The supply-chain
disruptions from the Japanese earthquake and the dampening
effects of high commodity prices on income and spending in major
countries both contributed to the slowing. It is still not clear
how persistent this slower growth will be. The supply-chain
disruptions are now gradually abating and commodity prices have
softened of late, though they generally remain high. In  China 
most indications suggest only a mild slowdown so far.  The central scenario for the world economy over the next
couple of years envisaged by most forecasters remains one of
growth below the pace of 2010, but at or above long-term
averages. Downside risks have increased, however, as concerns
have grown over the outlook for the public finances of both
 Europe  and the  United States .  Australia’s terms of trade are now at very high levels and
national income has been growing strongly. Investment in the
resources sector is picking up very strongly and some related
service sectors are enjoying better than average conditions. But
in other sectors, cautious behaviour by households and the high
level of the exchange rate are having a noticeable dampening
effect. The impetus from earlier Australian Government spending
programs is now also abating, as had been intended.  The resumption of coal production continues, but a full
recovery of flood-affected production now looks unlikely before
early next year. Precautionary behaviour by households also
looks likely to keep some areas of demand weaker in the near
term than earlier expected. Overall, growth in real GDP through
2011 is now likely to be at about trend. Over the medium term,
overall growth is still likely to be at trend or higher, unless
the world economy deteriorates noticeably.  Growth in employment has moderated and the  unemployment
rate  has been little changed, near 5 per cent, for some time now.
Reports of skills shortages remain confined, at this point, to
the resources and related sectors. After the significant decline
in 2009, growth in wages has returned to rates seen prior to the
downturn, though productivity growth remains weak.  Year-ended CPI inflation has been high, affected by the
extreme weather events earlier in the year. As these effects
reverse over the next couple of quarters, CPI inflation should
decline. But measures that give a better indication of the trend
in inflation have begun to rise over the past six months, after
declining for the previous two years. While they have, to date,
remained consistent with the 2-3 per cent target on a year-ended
basis, the Board remains concerned about the medium-term outlook
for inflation.  It is appropriate under such circumstances for monetary
policy to exert a degree of restraint. Most financial indicators
suggest that it has been doing so, as a result of the Board’s
decisions last year. Credit growth has declined over recent
months and is very subdued by historical standards, even with
evidence of greater willingness to lend. Most asset prices,
including housing prices, have also softened over recent months.
The  exchange rate  is high. Each of these variables is affected
by other factors as well, but together they point to financial
conditions being tighter than normal.  At today’s meeting, the Board considered whether the recent
information warranted further policy tightening. On balance, the
Board judged that it was prudent to maintain the current setting
of monetary policy, particularly in view of the acute sense of
uncertainty in global financial markets over recent weeks. In
future meetings, the Board will continue to assess carefully the
evolving outlook for growth and inflation. 