-- 
Reserve’s Bent Honored Among ‘Visionaries’ After Fund Collapse

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-08-02T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/reserve-s-bent-honored-among-visionaries-after-fund-collapse.html
Bruce R. Bent, credited with
inventing the retail money-market fund before presiding over the
industry’s highest-profile collapse, was named one of 60
“visionaries” of the mutual-fund business.  Bent and the others “helped to create the foundation of
the industry and have led and protected it in the past quarter-
century,” New York-based fund research firm Strategic Insight
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  John Bogle , founder of
Vanguard Group Inc., Pimco’s  Bill Gross  and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s
Laurence D. Fink are also among those being saluted at a Nov. 7
gala.  “I’m pleased and honored,” Bent said in a telephone
interview. “I don’t see why my selection should be
controversial,” he said, referring to his work establishing the
first money fund more than four decades ago. “What I did is
what I did.”  Bent, 74, founder and chief executive officer of closely
held Reserve Management Co., was accused of fraud by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission in May 2009 for allegedly
misleading investors and trustees in the run-up to the collapse
of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund in September 2008. The
fund, which had invested in debt issued by Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., became only the second ever to expose investors
to losses, or break the buck, when Lehman filed for  bankruptcy
protection .  The Bents “engaged in a systematic campaign to deceive the
investing public” into believing Reserve Primary was safe
following the Lehman bankruptcy, according to the SEC’s civil
complaint. Investors lost access to most of their money for
months, eventually recovering about 98.5 cents on the dollar.  Fighting SEC Claims  Bent and his New York-based firm are fighting the SEC
allegations, he said. No trial date has been set.  Bent, discussing the industry honor, cited a compliment
paid by  Peter Lynch , the former Fidelity Investments fund
manager, in Lynch’s book “One Up on  Wall Street .”  “There ought to be a monument to Bruce Bent and Harry
Brown for inventing the money-market fund,” Lynch wrote.  Bent and Brown opened the  Reserve Fund , later named Reserve
Primary, in 1970. He often said the best money-market funds
should be “boring,” and derided rivals that invested in
securities linked to subprime mortgages and other risky debt.  Reserve Primary held $785 million, or about 3 percent of
its assets, in Lehman debt when the New York bank declared
bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008. Its closure the following day
sparked a run on money funds that helped freeze global credit
markets and abated only after the U.S. Treasury Department
guaranteed the funds against losses on Sept. 19.  Regulators are considering plans for new rules aimed at
making money funds safer.  ‘Unforeseeable’ Condition  The Bents told the fund’s board of trustees, investors and
credit-rating firms on Sept. 15, 2008, that the company would
provide credit to support the fund’s $1 share price when they
had “no such intention,” the SEC said in its complaint.  Bent and his son Bruce R. Bent II also tried to persuade
shareholders to stay in the fund to prevent redemptions from
pushing its share price below $1, the SEC said.  Reserve Management said in a May 2009 statement after the
lawsuit was filed that Lehman’s bankruptcy “created an
unforeseeable and out-of-control condition for many parties and
the results were serious. We remain confident that we acted in
the best interest of our shareholders.”  Bent declined yesterday to comment further on the case.  Avi Nachmany, research director of Strategic Insight, said
the selection of industry visionaries was made by an advisory
panel of 15 that included fund executives, former regulators and
analysts.  “Clearly there are other areas of controversy, but we were
looking for the individuals who set the foundation of the
industry,” Nachmany said in a telephone interview.  The widespread acceptance of the money-market mutual fund
paved the way for the popularity of stock and bond funds in
subsequent years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  