-- 
Richter Second-Quarter Net Plunges on Costs

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-08-02T08:30:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/richter-second-quarter-net-plunges-on-costs-financial-loss-2-.html
Gedeon  Richter Nyrt ., Hungary’s
largest drugmaker, said second-quarter profit plunged 68 percent
as sales and marketing costs jumped and the company booked a
loss on financial operations.  Net profit fell to 8.5 billion forint ($45 million) from
26.5 billion forint a year earlier, the company said in a filing
to the Budapest Stock Exchange today. That compares with the
median projection for 8.6 billion forint of nine analysts in a
Bloomberg poll.  Richter, central and eastern  Europe ’s largest maker of
gynecological products, faces higher marketing costs as a result
of acquisitions last year and the development of a sales network
in former Soviet states. The company’s profit is set to decline
“significantly” in 2011 as a result of higher costs and the
elimination of a financial profit, Chief Executive Officer Erik Bogsch said in February.  “We have a bit of a bitter taste left behind by the net
income decline, which is predominantly due to the misbehavior of
financial items,” analysts at Budapest-based brokerage Equilor
Zrt. said in an e-mailed report today.  Richter, which makes the Plan B morning-after contraceptive
pill, purchased Swiss pharmaceutical company PregLem Holding SA
and the contraceptive portfolio of  Germany ’s Gruenenthal GmbH in
2010 to extend its presence in western Europe. The company,
based in Budapest, is also cooperating with  Forest Laboratories
Inc. (FRX)  to develop a drug to treat schizophrenia and bipolar
disorders.  Financial Operations  The loss on financial operations came to 3.4 billion forint
in the period after a financial gain of 9 billion forint a year
earlier.  Marketing and sales costs jumped 27 percent to 20.1 billion
forint as a result of “a substantial expansion of our sales
network combined with increased promotional activities in
Commonwealth of Independent Countries,” Richter said.  Marketing costs will likely account for 27 percent of sales
in 2011, Bogsch said at a press conference in Budapest today.  Shares fell 195 forint, or 0.5 percent, to 36,805 forint by
09:54 a.m. in Budapest, pushing the stock’s decline to 13.5
percent this year.  Richter will be able to reclaim 1.9 billion forint from its
payment of a special industry tax, helping boost results in the
second half of 2011, as a result of regulatory changes in
 Hungary , according to the company.  From 2012, the company sees an annual revenue loss of 7.1
billion forint stemming from “unfavorable” changes in
Hungary’s regulatory environment, Bogsch said.  Sales this year are expected to rise 5 percent in 2011 and
the gross margin will likely decline to about 60 percent from
61.1 percent in 2010, Bogsch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  