-- 
Trina Solar Pares Losses From Guidance Cut as Analysts Say ‘Buy’

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-08-02T16:26:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/trina-solar-pares-losses-from-guidance-cut-as-analysts-say-buy-.html
Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the Chinese solar-
panel maker that lowered guidance for quarterly shipments today,
pared losses in New York trading after two analysts reiterated
“buy” ratings on the stock.  Trina traded at $18.30, down 0.3 percent, at 11:24 a.m.
local time, after earlier falling as much as 5.9 percent. Solar-
module shipments probably ranged from 395 megawatts to 397
megawatts in the second quarter, down from previous estimates of
430 megawatts to 450 megawatts, Trina said in a statement.  The stock climbed back after Jesse Pichel, a New York-based
analyst at Jefferies Group Inc., maintained his “buy”
recommendation, saying Trina is a “low-cost brand leader, and
may be a large beneficiary of domestic China demand mid-term.”
Nitin Kumar, an analyst at Nomura Singapore Ltd., also kept a
“buy” rating.  The Changzhou, China-based solar company has fallen 43
percent since reaching a 52-week high of $31.89 on Oct. 14. It’s
among renewable-energy developers to suffer from government
moves in  Europe  to curtail incentives after generous rates and
falling module costs led to runaway growth.  Italy , the largest
solar market after  Germany , approved cuts to incentives in May.  Trina’s sales have been reduced by “extended slower demand
and high industry inventory due in part to recently issued
regulatory revisions and reduction in solar subsidies in
Italy,” Chief Executive Officer Jifan Gao said in the
statement. The “overall gross margin” is estimated at 17
percent to 17.5 percent for the second quarter, down from
previous guidance of “the low 20s,” the company said.  Second Half  Trina forecast higher sales in the second half. It
reiterated panel-shipment estimates of 1.75 gigawatts to 1.8
gigawatts for the year, an increase of as much as 70 percent
from last year, and said there’ll be a “significant improvement
in production costs and an increase in shipment volumes” in the
third quarter.  The updated second-quarter guidance is provisional. The
company will review its results on a conference call on Aug. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 