-- 
Romania to Leave Rates Unchanged to Aid Currency, Survey Shows

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-08-02T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/romania-to-leave-rates-unchanged-to-aid-currency-survey-shows.html
Romania  will leave the European
Union’s highest interest rate unchanged as policy makers aim to
keep the currency stable and boost an export-driven recovery
after inflation slowed, a survey of economists showed.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  will probably keep its
monetary policy rate at 6.25 percent today, according to all 11
economists in a Bloomberg survey. A decision is expected after
11 a.m. in Bucharest.  Romanian policy makers have kept the rate unchanged at each
policy board meeting since June 2010 to contain inflation
sparked by a tax increase and rising commodity prices. Surging
exports have pulled the economy out of the worst recession on
record, helped by industrial output growth and a currency that
has been trading around current levels in the last year.  The bank will keep the rate unchanged as “the country’s
economy is still hurt by fiscal austerity, high inflation and
high  interest rates ,” said  Elisabeth Andreew , chief foreign-
currency strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “On the
other hand, inflation risks are still lurking, for example
increased administered prices, and it’s also important to keep
rates high to keep the currency stable.”  The leu, the fifth-best performer among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg so far this
year, has been trading between 4.1 against the euro and 4.3 per
euro in the past year. Central bank Governor Mugur Isarescu said
on July 15 he expects the leu to remain trading in that range.  Regional Trends  Central and east European policy makers have kept rates
steady over the past month, with Poland and  Hungary  halting
monetary-policy moves to assess a slowdown in inflation.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank kept the two-week deposit rate at 6
percent on July 26, after the sovereign debt crisis weakened the
forint to a record low against the Swiss franc, in which most
Hungarian mortgages are denominated. The Narodowy Bank Polski
left the seven-day interest rate at 4.5 percent last month after
raising borrowing costs by 1 percentage point this year.  Neighboring  Serbia  last month cut its benchmark rate, the
second highest in  Europe , by a quarter point to 11.75 percent,
the second decrease in as many months.  Romania’s inflation rate, the EU’s highest, unexpectedly
fell to 7.9 percent in June from an almost three-year high of
8.4 percent the previous month. The central bank targets a rate
of 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point, for this year
and next and expects inflation to end the year at 5.1 percent.  IMF Forecasts  The  International Monetary Fund , which granted Romania a
two-year precautionary loan, forecasts an inflation rate of 5.5
percent for the year, according to Jeffrey Franks, the fund’s
mission chief to Romania.  The central bank should keep a bias toward tightening
monetary policy even as inflation is expected to slow after the
effect of last year’s tax increase wanes, to counter possible
energy-price increases, Franks said on Aug. 1 in an interview in
Bucharest.  It also should refrain from reducing the amount of
foreign currency banks are required to hold because it “would
be unwise at the moment,” Franks said at the time.  The central bank lowered foreign-exchange  reserve
requirements  by 5 percentage points to 20 percent on March 31,
leaving commercial banks including Banca Comerciala Romana SA,
owned by Erste Group Bank AG,  BRD-Groupe Societe Generale (BRD)  SA and
 Banca Transilvania (TLV)  SA more money to lend to spur the economy,
which the government expects to grow 1.5 percent this year
compared with a contraction of 1.3 percent in 2010.  The central bank kept reserve requirements for leu deposits
at 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  