-- 
Tropical Storm Emily to Strengthen as It Nears Dominican Republic

-- B y   C o n o r   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-02T11:19:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/tropical-storm-emily-to-strengthen-as-it-nears-dominican-republic.html
Tropical Storm Emily is forecast to
strengthen today as it approaches the  Dominican Republic .  Emily is about 245 miles (394 kilometers) southeast of San
Juan,  Puerto Rico , traveling west at 16 miles per hour,
according to an advisory issued by the U.S.  National Hurricane
Center  at 5 a.m. in Miami. Tropical storm-force winds extend 70
miles from the core.  The storm has maximum sustained winds at near 40 miles per
hour and its center will move across the northeastern Caribbean
Sea today and approach the island of Hispaniola as early as
tonight, according to the NHC. Data on  Weather Underground
Inc. ’s website show Emily is projected to head toward Cuba, the
Bahamas and possibly Florida.  “It could be impacting the Florida peninsula this
weekend,” said Andy Mussoline, a meteorologist with AccuWeather
Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  Florida  is the world’s
second-largest producer of oranges, behind  Brazil .  A storm is named when its maximum winds reach 39 miles per
hour, the threshold for it to be classified as a tropical storm.  Tropical storm warnings were issued for Puerto Rico and the
islands of Guadeloupe, Desirade, Les Saintes and Marie Galante,
Vieques and Culebra and the Dominican Republic.  Tropical storm watches were issued for the  U.S. Virgin
Islands , Haiti and the islands of St. Kitts, Nevis, Montserrat
and Antigua.  Category 1 Possible  “Tropical storm conditions are possible in the watch area
in the Leeward Islands over the next few hours, in the U.S.
Virgin Islands later this morning and in  Haiti  by Wednesday,”
the center said. Mussoline said the system may grow into at
least a Category 1 hurricane, with winds of at least 74 mph on
the five-step  Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale .  A Category 1 storm, the weakest type of hurricane, can
shatter windows, tear off roofs and destroy older mobile homes,
according to the hurricane center.  “As evidenced by the amount of time it took this system to
consolidate around a single center, the environment is only
marginally favorable for strengthening in the short term,” the
hurricane center said in an earlier advisory.  In the eastern Pacific Ocean, Tropical Storm Eugene grew
into a Category 1 hurricane with maximum winds of 90 mph,
according to the center. Eugene is forecast to take a track
moving to the west-northwest, which will keep it away from land
for the rest of the week.  Eugene, the fifth hurricane to form in the eastern Pacific
this year, is 445 miles southwest of Manzanillo,  Mexico ,
according to the center.  An area of disturbed weather has also formed near the Gulf
of Tehuantepec that has a 20 percent chance of becoming a
tropical cyclone in the next two days, the center said in a
tropical weather outlook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Conor Sullivan in London at 
 csullivan39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  