-- 
Tropical Storm Emily Builds, May Dissipate After Reaching Hispaniola

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-03T00:45:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/tropical-storm-emily-strengthens-may-dissipate-after-hitting-hispaniola.html
Tropical Storm Emily gained speed as
it approached the Caribbean island of Hispaniola, where it
should make landfall tomorrow and bring as much as 10 inches (25
centimeters) of rain, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  Emily is moving west at 14 miles (22 kilometers) per hour,
up from 12 mph earlier today, the center said in a  hurricane
center  advisory released before 8 p.m. Miami time. The storm,
with maximum winds of 50 mph, is about 165 miles south of  San
Juan ,  Puerto Rico , and may gradually turn northwest in the next
two days, the center said.  “Tropical storm conditions are expected tonight in Puerto
Rico, Culebra and Vieques and should begin to spread into the
 Dominican Republic  and  Haiti  on Wednesday,” according to the
advisory. “Some slight strengthening is possible before the
center moves over the high terrain of Hispaniola.”  The mountains of Hispaniola, where Haiti and the Dominican
Republic are located, may disrupt the core circulation of a
tropical cyclone. Some of the peaks are 10,000 feet (3,000
meters) tall, high enough to reach into a storm’s mid-level
circulation, said  Dennis Feltgen , spokesman for the hurricane
center in Miami.  Feltgen likened the effect of mountains on storms as the
same of an ice skater tripping as she is twirling on the ice.
“If all of a sudden your feet get tripped up on something, what
happens?” he said.  The updated official storm track shows Emily being
downgraded to a tropical depression before re-forming into a
tropical storm and moving into the Bahamas by the end of the
week. The storm is then expected to sweep northward in the
Atlantic parallel to the U.S. East Coast.  Five Storms  Emily is the fifth storm of the  Atlantic hurricane season ,
which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30. On average, the fifth storm
usually doesn’t form until Aug. 31, so this year is ahead of the
pace for a normal year, Feltgen said.  A system becomes a tropical storm and receives a name when
its maximum winds reach 39 mph, according to the hurricane
center. It becomes a hurricane when its winds reach 74 mph.  A tropical storm watch has been issued for the  U.S. Virgin
Islands , southeast Bahamas, Turks and Caicos Islands. A tropical
storm warning is in effect for Puerto Rico, Vieques, Culebra,
Haiti and the Dominican Republic.  In the eastern  Pacific Ocean , Hurricane Eugene has also
strengthened and continues to move west-northwest and away from
land at 14 mph, according to the center. The storm has 105 mph
winds, and is a Category 2 hurricane on the five-step Saffir-
Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale. It is located 535 miles southwest
of Manzanillo,  Mexico , according to the center.  An area of disturbed weather about 120 miles south of
Puerto Angel, Mexico, has a 70 percent chance of becoming a
tropical cyclone in the next two days, the center said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 