-- 
Tropical Storm Emily Strengthens, May Dissipate After Hitting Hispaniola

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   C o n o r   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-02T19:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/tropical-storm-emily-stalls-may-dissipate-near-the-island-of-hispaniola.html
Tropical Storm Emily has strengthened
slightly and begun moving west after stalling south of  Puerto
Rico  earlier today, according to the  National Hurricane Center .  The storm’s maximum winds are 45 miles (72 kilometers) per
hour, up from 40 mph earlier. Emily is moving west at 12 mph and
is 215 miles south-southeast of San Juan, Puerto Rico, according
to hurricane center advisory issued at about 2 p.m. Miami time.  Two computer models suggest the storm will fall apart near
Hispaniola, according to a hurricane center forecast analysis.
Haiti and the Dominican Republic occupy the island. The official
forecast calls for the storm to strengthen slightly and follow a
path that may take it near  Florida  this weekend.  Private forecasters also doubt Emily’s future.  “Emily’s interaction with wind shear and dry air is
preventing additional organization and intensification,” said
 Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist at  Planalytics Inc.  in
Berwyn, Pennsylvania. “Additionally, the mountainous terrain of
Hispaniola will likely further hurt or possibly kill Emily
off.”  Commodity Weather Group LLC President  Matt Rogers  said
Emily may not survive through tomorrow.  Island Warnings  A storm is named when its maximum winds reach 39 miles per
hour, the threshold for it to be classified as a tropical storm.  Tropical storm warnings are in effect for Haiti, Puerto
Rico and the Dominican Republic. A tropical storm watch is in
force for the U.S. Virgin Islands, where Hovensa LLC has a
refinery.  Four to 7 inches of rain may fall across Puerto Rico and
the  Dominican Republic . As much as 10 inches may fall in
isolated parts of Haiti, according to the hurricane center.  “These rains could cause life-threatening flash floods and
mud slides in areas of mountainous terrain,” according to the
advisory.  In the eastern Pacific Ocean, Hurricane Eugene continues to
move west-northwest and away from land at 15 mph, according to
the center. The storm, with 100 mph winds, is now located 490
miles southwest of Manzanillo,  Mexico , according to the center.  An area of disturbed weather has also formed near the Gulf
of Tehuantepec that has a 50 percent chance of becoming a
tropical cyclone in the next two days, it said in a tropical
weather outlook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Conor Sullivan in  London  at 
 csullivan39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 