-- 
Trumka Says ‘Suicidal’ House Members Pushed Debt-Plan Compromise

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-08-02T15:41:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/trumka-says-suicidal-house-members-pushed-debt-plan-compromise.html
AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka  said
“suicidal” U.S. House members pushed the compromise
legislation to raise the debt limit and the Obama administration
must make creating jobs the top national priority.  “When you’ve got people that are suicidal in the  House of
Representatives , that don’t care about the economy or creating
jobs, that makes it more difficult,” Trumka told reporters
today after a 90-meeting meeting at the White House with more
than 70 labor leaders.  Officers from unions affiliated with the AFL-CIO, the
nation’s biggest labor federation, met with President  Barack Obama  and said creating jobs should be the No. 1 White House
focus, Trumka said.  “That has to be his first, second, third, fourth, fifth,
sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth priority,” Trumka said.  Obama called the nation’s union leaders to the White House
for an East Room meeting on jobs, the economy and working
families, Trumka said.  Trumka said little is known about the debt-ceiling measure
passed yesterday in the House and being debated this morning in
the Senate.  “I don’t think anybody quite knows what it is, or what the
effect is on  job creation ,” he said.  Trumka said the Obama meeting was “very productive” and
declined to offer specific details.  The meeting was to discuss “the urgent need to focus on
job-creating policies that will propel working people and our
economy forward,” said Alison Omens, an AFL-CIO spokeswoman.
“Working people are desperate to hear how we’re going to focus
on the real economy and the jobs crisis and President Obama
conveyed his own feeling of urgency around dealing with the jobs
crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  