-- 
Twitter Said to Raise $400 Million From Russian Billionaire

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-08-02T10:37:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/russian-billionaire-milner-s-dst-global-buys-stake-in-twitter.html
Twitter Inc., the biggest
microblogging service, has raised $400 million in funding from
DST Global, the investment fund led by Russian billionaire Yuri Milner, said a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The person declined to be named because the transaction was
private. A Moscow-based spokesman for DST Global confirmed the
deal and declined to comment on the amount.  Twitter is aiming to raise about $800 million in total and
will use half the money to buy back shares from employees and
backers, two people with knowledge of the plan said in July. The
investment values the short-messaging service at $8 billion, the
people said at the time.  The investment comes as the San Francisco-based company is
trying to expand sales and competes for advertising dollars with
larger rivals such as Facebook Inc., the world’s biggest social-
networking service. Ad sales on Twitter may more than triple
this year to about $150 million, according to research firm
EMarketer Inc. By comparison, Facebook brought in ad revenue of
$1.86 billion last year, EMarketer estimates.  “We have the opportunity to expand Twitter’s reach with a
significant round of funding led by the venture firm DST Global,
with the participation of several of our existing investors,”
Twitter said in a blog post yesterday. “We will use these
resources to aggressively innovate, hire more great people and
invest in international expansion.”  Surging Valuation  Twitter’s valuation has more than doubled since December,
when it received a $200 million investment led by Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers that gave it a $3.7 billion valuation.
It was pegged at about $1 billion in 2009, a person familiar
with the matter said at the time.  Rachel Bremer, a spokeswoman for Twitter, declined to
comment on financials beyond yesterday’s  statement .  “Twitter is one of the few companies that has truly
changed the world,” Milner said in an e-mailed statement
provided by Twitter today. “Twitter’s astonishing growth is a
testament to how important it is becoming to more people every
day, and why we couldn’t pass up the chance to be a bigger part
of its future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at   bcook7@bloomberg.net 
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  