-- 
Wal-Mart’s South Africa Antitrust Terms Lack Protections, Ministers Say

-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 
2011-08-02T16:13:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/s-african-wal-mart-deal-conditions-insufficient-ministers-say.html
South African antitrust conditions
imposed on  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s acquisition of a controlling
stake in local retailer  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)  are insufficient
and need to be tightened, government ministers said.  Authorities are seeking a “binding commitment” from
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart that the deal won’t result
in a “massive reduction in jobs, compromise South Africa’s food
security and decimate local production,” Economic Development
Minister  Ebrahim Patel  told reporters in  Pretoria  today.  Patel is one of three ministers to file a court appeal
against Massmart’s 16.5 billion-rand ($2.4 billion) takeover in
June by Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest retailer. The South
African Competition Tribunal approved the purchase on May 31, on
condition that no jobs be cut for two years and that the
retailers set up a 100 million-rand fund to help farmers and
manufacturers who want to become suppliers.  The fund could “pale into insignificance,” given the
expected effects of a substantial shift to imports by
Johannesburg-based Massmart, Patel, Trade and Industry Minister
 Rob Davies  and Forestry and Fisheries Minister Tina Joemat- Pettersson said in a joint statement handed to reporters today.  ‘Package’ Sought  The ministers are seeking a “package of proposals”
together with an increase in the supplier-development financing,
Patel said. He declined to specify the government’s demands
pending further discussions with Wal-Mart and future court
proceedings. The U.S. company now owns 51 percent of Massmart,
South Africa’s biggest wholesale retailer.  Massmart fell 1.25 rand, or 0.9 percent, to 144.73 rand in
Johannesburg trading. The stock has declined 1.3 percent this
year, valuing the retailer at 31 billion rand.  The minister’s statement “appears to delve into territory
that the Competition Appeal Court has been called upon to
adjudicate in,” Massmart and Wal-Mart said in an e-mailed
statement. “It presents as fact various propositions that were
argued before, and rejected by, the Competition Tribunal.”  “Out of deference to the legal proceedings currently under
way, Massmart and Wal-Mart cannot comment publicly in relation
to issues that have yet to be determined by the Appeal Court.”  Wal-Mart outlined plans on June 26 to create 15,000 jobs in
 South Africa  within five years and to allocate most of an
expected 60 billion rand in additional food or fast-moving
consumer goods purchases to local suppliers.  The government’s appeal in July followed one filed in June
by the South African Commercial, Catering and Allied Workers
Union, which said the antitrust tribunal’s conditions were
inadequate to protect jobs and safeguard worker rights. The
Competition Appeal Court has yet to decide whether to merge the
two lawsuits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Gordon Bell  at   gbell16@bloomberg.net  