-- 
HSBC’s Veloso Says Philippine Reserve Ratio May Be Better Tool

-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 
2011-08-02T09:16:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/hsbc-s-veloso-says-philippine-reserve-ratio-may-be-better-tool.html
Wick Veloso, treasurer at HSBC
Holdings Plc in the  Philippines , said the reserve requirement
ratio may be a better tool to manage liquidity compared with the
benchmark interest rate. He spoke in a briefing today in Manila.  At its meeting last month, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas
raised the reserve ratio by one percentage point to 21 percent
effective Aug. 5. The central bank has left its overnight
borrowing rate unchanged at 4.5 percent since raising it in
March and May. The next policy meeting will be on Sept. 8.  On borrowing costs:  “At current market conditions, 4.5 percent, in my opinion,
is optimal. The interest-rate market in the Philippines just
needs to align.  “The cheapest way for the central bank to manage excess
liquidity in the system is not to pay for it. Instead of using
the special deposit accounts, you can get it via an increase in
reserve requirement.  “A reserve requirement hike is most efficient because it
doesn’t allow  interest rates  to rise significantly but manages
the amount of liquidity that is available for lending. You
achieve the purpose of sterilizing those unneeded money.  “You don’t want to tax inflows because the moment you need
them, you don’t want to come out and say we’ve removed the tax.
Capital control implies that natural market forces are not
working. There are other measures that the regulator can use.”  On the Philippines achieving investment grade:  Within the term of President  Benigno Aquino  “it’s very
achievable. The upgrade to one notch below investment grade is
already a very good indicator that the direction is toward the
investment grade category. The credit swap spread clearly
indicates you’re near that territory.”  On diversifying reserves:  “It will be prudent but a move to a different currency
will be something they need to review further. U.S. Treasuries
are held by almost 65 percent of the global market. As an
investor in the global economy, what choices do you have? You
don’t have much.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  