-- 
HSBC-Libor Probe, Dutch Deposit Guarantee, Basel: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-08-02T12:05:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/hsbc-libor-probe-dutch-deposit-guarantee-imf-basel-compliance.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  received requests
for information from regulators and prosecutors in the U.K.,
U.S. and European Union as part of an investigation into whether
the London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor, was manipulated.  HSBC, Europe’s largest bank, is cooperating with the probe,
the company said in a regulatory filing yesterday. The bank also
said it is the subject of separate investigations involving U.S.
anti-money laundering laws and mortgage foreclosure practices.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Department of Justice
and the U.K. Financial Services Authority are investigating
submissions made by banks regarding Libor rates and whether
there were attempts to manipulate them. Libor is the rate of
interest at which banks borrow funds from other banks in the
London market.  “These ongoing matters are at an early stage,” HSBC said.
“Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at
this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these regulatory
investigations or putative class actions lawsuits, including the
timing and potential impact, if any, on HSBC.”  The bank also received grand jury subpoenas and other
requests for documents from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, the
Department of Justice and the New York District Attorney’s
Office over its units’ bank note and dollar clearing services,
compliance with the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act, anti-money laundering
controls and the Office of Foreign Asset Control requirements.  “It is likely that there could be some form of formal
enforcement action in respect of some or all of the ongoing
investigations,” HSBC said.  Separately,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-largest bank by
assets, said that the  European Commission  is among the
regulators investigating the process for setting Libor.  In its half-yearly report published today, the bank added
the EU’s Brussels-based antitrust authority to a list of
regulators examining Libor setting which it disclosed in April.  “Barclays is co-operating in the relevant investigations
and is keeping regulators informed,” the bank said in today’s
filing.  Compliance Policy  Dutch Banks to Pay 4 Billion Euros Into Deposit Guarantee Fund  Dutch banks will have to pay a quarterly premium of 0.025
percent of deposits in ten years starting from July 2012 to
create a guarantee fund to reimburse depositors when a bank
fails, according to a legislative proposal published by the
 Finance Ministry  yesterday.  Based on current deposits the fund would have a target size
of 4 billion euros ($5.8 billion). In addition, banks will pay a
risk-premium of as much as 100 percent of that contribution
according to their level of risk, the ministry said.  IMF Backs U.K. Bid to Exceed Basel Bank Rules in Clash With EU  The  International Monetary Fund  said the U.K. is right to
seek the power to exceed minimum capital standards on banks
endorsed by global regulators, siding with Britain in a clash
with the European Union.  IMF made the statement in a report on the U.K. published in
 Washington  yesterday.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial-services commissioner,
has clashed with some governments in the 27-nation EU over how
to interpret and implement last year’s deal by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision. Finance ministers including
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne,  Spain ’s  Elena
Salgado  and Sweden’s Anders Borg have criticized plans to make
it harder for national regulators to set tougher capital rules
than the accord, known as Basel III.  Barnier last month proposed common rules to put in place
Basel III in the EU, arguing in favor of harmonizing core
requirements.  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for the commission, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call seeking comment.  U.K. Watchdog Tells Retail Financial Advisers to Disclose Fees  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority published  rules 
requiring independent financial advisers to disclose fees they
receive for directing clients into certain funds.  Advisers must give customers details of fees or commissions
they get for arranging the sale of retail investment products,
the watchdog said in a statement on its website yesterday.  The rules, which take effect at the end of next year, are
part of an overhaul of the U.K. retail investment industry.  Large-Scale Bank M&A Unlikely as Rules Crimp Deals, KPMG Says  Banks are unlikely to pursue large-scale mergers and
acquisitions for at least two years as rules aimed at preventing
another financial crisis crimp dealmaking, according to a study
by KPMG LLP.  The average size of a banking takeover has been falling by
64 percent annually during the past three years, dropping to $87
million in 2010 from $243 million in 2007, the accounting firm
said in a report yesterday.  Regulators in  Europe  and the U.S. are forcing banks to
bolster capital, leaving them with less cash to finance
acquisitions. They’re also forcing the biggest lenders, those
deemed too-big-to-fail, to hold additional capital to prevent a
repeat of the crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  KPMG said its report was based on 23 interviews with
banking executives from the world’s largest banks and banking
association members.  Compliance Action  Ex-Ernst & Young Executives Barred by PCAOB Over Fake Papers  The U.S. audit industry watchdog barred two former Ernst &
Young LP executives over claims they drafted fake working papers
to mislead regulators who were planning to inspect their work.  Peter O’Toole , who was a partner at Ernst & Young, agreed
to pay a $50,000 fine and will be banned from the industry for
at least three years, the  Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board  said in a statement yesterday. Darrin Estella, a former
manager at the New York-based firm, was barred for at least two
years for his role in creating the documents, the PCAOB said.  After learning that the PCAOB planned to inspect a 2009
audit, O’Toole told Estella to create and backdate a document
related to a review of how their client valued an investment,
the PCAOB said. Estella drafted the document on another
employee’s laptop using a flash drive, which he later threw away
in an effort to hide the misconduct.  O’Toole and Estella resolved the claims without admitting
or denying the allegations, the PCAOB said.  “The PCAOB has not alleged any deficiencies in the
carrying out of the audit, or that any of the alleged conduct
was designed to hide an audit failure, or that the alleged
backdated document did not portray audit work that did not take
place,” Eugene Goldman, O’Toole’s attorney at McDermott Will &
Emery, said in a telephone interview.  William Lovett, Estella’s lawyer at  Collora LLP , declined
to comment.  German, Swiss Tax Talks ‘Not Finished Yet’, Spokeswoman Says  Negotiations between  Germany  and Switzerland to settle a
dispute over tax evasion by wealthy German clients aren’t
finished yet though they’re “far advanced,” German Finance
Ministry spokeswoman Silke Bruns told reporters at a regular
government press conference in Berlin yesterday.  Bruns said she “wouldn’t be surprised” if a treaty was
signed this month.  Indiana Bank Closure Brings Failed Bank Cost to $5.06 Billion  The closure of Integra Bank of Evansville brings the cost
of failed banks to the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund in 2011 to
$5.06 billion, according to data provided by the FDIC.  Integra, which had 52 branches, was closed July 29 by
regulators and the FDIC was appointed as receiver. Evansville’s
Old National Bank will assume all of Integra’s deposits.  For a table listing banks that have failed since 1934 and
their cost since 1986 in millions of dollars to the Deposit
Insurance Fund, click here.  Courts  SEC Complaint Against Gabelli Reinstated by Appeals Court  Marc J. Gabelli, a former portfolio manager of Gabelli
Global Growth Fund, must face a lawsuit against him brought by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, a federal appeals
court said, reversing a lower-court ruling.  The SEC alleged in a 2008 complaint that Gabelli, a son of
founder Mario Gabelli, had authorized the fund to be market
timed by Folkes Asset Management, now known as Headstart
Advisers Ltd., and that former Gabelli Funds LLC Chief Operating
Officer Bruce Alpert had allowed it to continue.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  New York  yesterday reversed a
decision by U.S. District Judge Deborah A. Batts dismissing the
complaint on the grounds that the SEC waited too long to seek
civil fines against them. Batts ruling last year also threw out
securities fraud claims against Alpert. The appeals court ruled
the claim for civil penalties isn’t subject to time limitations.  A lawyer representing Marc Gabelli, Lewis J. Liman, didn’t
return a telephone message. SEC spokesman  Kevin Callahan 
declined to comment on the ruling.  “We’re disappointed with the decision,” said Kathleen
Massey, a lawyer for Alpert. “We disagree with the court’s
analysis.”  Massey said she is confident Alpert will prevail when the
facts are considered once the case is returned to the trial
court.  Market timing is the practice of short-term buying, selling
and exchanging of mutual funds to exploit pricing
inefficiencies.  The case is SEC v. Marc Gabelli, 08-cv-3868, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Ex-General Re Officers Win Retrial After Convictions Tossed  Four former executives at General Reinsurance Corp. and one
at  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  won reversal of their 2008
convictions on charges that they defrauded AIG investors of as
much as $597 million.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York yesterday ordered a
new trial for General Re’s ex-Chief Executive Officer Ronald
Ferguson, ex-Chief Financial Officer Elizabeth Monrad, ex-Senior
Vice President Christopher Garand and ex-Assistant General
Counsel Robert Graham. Former AIG Vice President Christian
Milton also won reversal and a new trial. Federal jurors
convicted them in Hartford,  Connecticut , after a six-week trial.  The fraud centered on what prosecutors called a sham
transaction to inflate AIG’s loss reserves by $500 million. It
preceded by several years the financial crisis of New York-based
AIG, which got a bailout of $182.3 billion from U.S. taxpayers.  The appeals court said the judge erroneously let
prosecutors display to jurors three charts with AIG stock-price
data. The charts suggested, without foundation, that the
transaction caused the stock to plummet “and (given the role of
AIG in the financial panic) prejudicially cast the defendants as
causing an economic downturn that has affected every family in
America,” a three-judge appeals panel ruled.  The case is U.S. v. Ferguson, 08-6211, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (New York).  For more, click here.  SEC Sues for Assets of Money Manager Who Killed Himself  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued the estate
of J. David Salinas, an investment manager who committed suicide
last month, claiming his companies ran a Ponzi scheme, selling
investors bonds that didn’t exist.  Salinas, through his companies Select Asset Management and
J. David Group, defrauded investors of more than $50 million
from 2004 to the present, the SEC said in a complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Houston. The agency also sued
Brian A. Bjork, chief investment officer of Select Asset.  While Bjork and Salinas promised investors safe corporate
and other bonds, “the J. David Group corporate bond offering
was bogus,” the SEC said.  The investors included numerous college basketball coaches.
Salinas was a founder of an elite high school summer basketball
program in Houston and a donor to college sports programs.  J. Randle Henderson, an attorney for Select Asset
Management, said he couldn’t immediately comment on the lawsuit
because he just received the complaint.  Salinas, 60, was found dead of a gunshot wound on July 17
at his home in the Houston suburb of Friendswood,  Texas . The
death was ruled a suicide, according to published reports.
Kathleen Galloway, an SEC attorney, said in today’s filing that
a Galveston County prosecutor told her July 17 that the death
was “apparently a suicide.”  “David Salinas conducted all the bond transactions for the
J. David Financial Group of companies,” Matt Hennessy, Bjork’s
attorney, said. “Brian had no indication that David was
deceiving his investors. Brian was shocked to learn of the
degree of David’s deception.”  The case is SEC v. Bjork, 11-cv-02830, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  BOE’s Haldane Says Policy Makers Could Use Haircuts as Tool  Andrew Haldane , the  Bank of England ’s Executive Director
for Financial Stability, said policy makers could regulate
collateral requirements to strengthen financial markets and
prevent another credit crisis.  “A hands-off haircuts policy runs a significant risk of
systemic collapse if haircuts are pro-cyclically trimmed during
the upswing,” Haldane said in a speech in Edinburgh yesterday.
A model measuring the impact of intervention shows that “even
the weak policy shrinks the probability of collapse by more than
half, whatever the initial level of haircuts. And under the
tough policy, the financial system is effectively inoculated
against haircut-induced pro-cyclicality.”  Haldane’s comments come amid the U.K. government’s shake-up
of bank rules, which will invest the Bank of  England  with
control of financial regulation. The central bank’s interim
 Financial Policy Committee  recommended in June that banks take
the opportunity of periods of “strong earnings” to build up
capital. The interim panel will have power only to recommend
action until its status is approved by Parliament.  Comings and Goings  OCC Names Benhart Deputy Comptroller for Credit, Market Risk  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency named Darrin
Benhart deputy comptroller for credit and market risk, according
to a  statement  released by the agency in Washington yesterday.  Benhart will be one of two deputy comptrollers for credit
and market risk at the agency. He will be a principal adviser on
emerging systemic risks in the banking system, the OCC said in
the statement.  Benhart joined the agency in 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 