-- 
NRC Is Ready to Act on Earthquake, Flood Protection, Members Say

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-08-02T18:16:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/senate-democrats-urge-swift-action-on-nrc-fukushima-report-1-.html
The  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  may
order reactor owners within three months to identify plant
vulnerabilities to earthquakes and floods, a majority of members
told a Senate committee whose chairman is seeking swift action.  Among 12 recommendations by an agency task force, the plant
inspections can be implemented quickly, Commissioners William Ostendorff, Kristine Svinicki and William Magwood said today at
a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing in
Washington. The three, representing a majority of the agency,
have rejected calls by Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  to quickly
consider the report’s full recommendations.  “Some actions should be taken sooner than others,”
Ostendorff said.  The NRC is deliberating proposals by the task force, in a
report dated July 12, to improve safety at 104 U.S. commercial
reactors after meltdowns and radiation leaks at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi station. Jaczko sought an agency
decision within 90 days on which recommendations to consider.  The five-member commission should act “without delay” on
a “plan of action” to adopt the report’s recommendations, said
Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat and chairman of the
committee.  “We’re going to have you back every 90 days until I know
what you’re doing,” Boxer said, chiding the five commissioners
for potentially delaying action.  The NRC has been split over how quickly it should consider
the proposals. The commission can determine by mid-October which
to implement, Jaczko has said. Not all proposals can be acted on
within 90 days, Svinicki said. Ostendorff has proposed an 18-
month review of lessons learned from  Japan  before considering a
new regulatory framework.  Regulatory Framework  “I do not believe that our existing regulatory framework
is broken,” Ostendorff said, repeating his comments at a July
19 NRC meeting. The commission should consider this month which
recommendations could be implemented immediately, he said.
Ostendorff has proposed six actions that could be taken quickly,
including a review of venting capability for some reactors,
evaluating flood and earthquake protections and beginning the
process to change the back-up power requirements at reactors.  “I’m in general agreement with what he recommended,”
Magwood said of Ostendorff.  Many of the  task force ’s recommendations “could be
implemented very quickly,” he said.  “I don’t think we should limit ourselves to what the task
force said,” Commissioner George Apostolakis said.  Hardened Vents  Jaczko and Apostolakis said they would support the
recommendation to require older reactors with containment
systems similar to those damaged at Fukushima to install
“hardened” vent designs to prevent hydrogen build-ups and
potential explosions.  The agency must act within three months, said Senator
 Bernard Sanders , a Vermont Independent who usually votes with
Democrats. “Delay is not an acceptable option,” he said.  The agency should “take the time” to learn the lessons
from Fukushima, said Senator  James Inhofe , an Oklahoma
Republican. The agency should focus on improving safety instead
of becoming “distracted by a redesigning a regulatory framework
that has served this country well,” he said.  The report amounted to “a lot of suggestions for more
 Washington  red tape,” said Senator  John Barrasso , a Wyoming
Republican.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  