-- 
Senate Votes Today on U.S. Debt Compromise Amid Doubts Over Impact of Plan

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-08-02T15:08:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/senate-votes-today-on-u-s-debt-compromise-amid-doubts-over-impact-of-plan.html
Congressional leaders voiced
confidence the Senate will ratify a U.S. debt-limit increase to
avert a default today while cutting $2.4 trillion in spending
over the next decade.  The Senate plans to vote at noon, and President  Barack Obama  is scheduled to make a statement in the Rose Garden
immediately afterward. The House voted 269-161 yesterday for the
measure, which raises the debt ceiling enough to fund the
government until 2013 and threatens automatic spending cuts if a
bipartisan committee doesn’t identify reductions that Congress
will accept.  “Finally, Washington is taking some responsibility for
spending money we don’t have,” said Lamar Alexander of
 Tennessee , the third-ranking Senate Republican. “Make no
mistake, this is a change in behavior from spend, spend, spend
to cut, cut, cut.”  Second-ranking Democrat  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois  said his
vote for the plan “does not come without pain” because it will
reduce funds for disease research and education programs for
poor children. Lawmakers must “be prepared to raise revenue”
in future efforts to cut the deficit, he said.  Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year note yields to the lowest
level this year, as a government report showed  consumer spending 
unexpectedly fell in June.  10-Year Notes  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes dropped three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.72 percent at 10:13 a.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
3.125 percent securities maturing in May 2021 rose 7/32, or
$2.19 per $1,000 face amount, to 103 15/32.  Stocks extended losses. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell for a seventh straight day, losing 0.8 percent to 1,277.09
at 10:53 a.m. in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell
65.05 points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,067.44.  The legislation falls short of the long-term deficit
savings that Obama initially sought. The political obstacles to
reaching even the lower target are formidable, though the
measure’s sanctions improve prospects “a bit,” said  Peter Orszag , Obama’s former budget director.  “The fundamental problem is that we are hyper-polarized,
and that does not go away,” said Orszag, now a vice chairman of
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and a contributor to Bloomberg View. “This deal
is not going to solve that.”  Tax System Overhaul  Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, said yesterday
the agreement fails to address the “core problem” of how to
overhaul the tax system and curb spending on entitlements such
as Medicare that drive the deficit. Still, he said, he plans to
vote for it because “it helps us avoid default.”  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond mutual fund
at Pacific Investment Management Co., said the debt ceiling
compromise won’t make a “significant dent” in U.S. deficits.  “In addition to an existing nearly $10 trillion of
outstanding Treasury debt, the U.S. has a near unfathomable $66
trillion of future liabilities at net present cost,” Gross
wrote in a monthly investment outlook posted on the  Newport
Beach , California-based company’s website today.  Representative  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican who is
chairman of the House Budget Committee, said today on CNBC that
lawmakers must confront spiraling costs of entitlement programs.  “Medicare is driving itself into bankruptcy; Medicaid is
bankrupting states,” Ryan said. “Our health-care entitlements
are the core driver of our debt. Programs need to be reformed
and strengthened if they’re going to be saved.”  Discretionary Spending  A $917 billion down payment in discretionary spending
reductions contained in the measure is back-loaded so more than
two-thirds of the cuts come after 2016. The spending reduction
next year is $21 billion, less than two-tenths of a percent of
U.S. gross domestic product.  Amid signs that the economic recovery slowed almost to a
standstill earlier this year,  Michael Feroli , chief U.S.
economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co., said he expects the spending
cuts next year to “add modestly” to the drag on growth from
expiring provisions of the economic-stimulus package and the
scheduled Dec. 31 end of a temporary payroll  tax cut .  Vice President Joe Biden, who met with House Democrats
yesterday to rally votes for the compromise, said the plan has
“one overwhelming redeeming feature” -- removing the threat of
a default on U.S. obligations after a months-long struggle
between the White House and congressional Republicans over
raising the $14.3 trillion debt limit.  ‘Growing the Economy’  “We had to get this out of the way to get to the issue of
growing the economy,” Biden told reporters as he left the
meeting.  While the measure specifies the $917 billion in
discretionary spending cuts over 10 years, the rest is left to a
panel of 12 members of Congress, split evenly between the two
parties.  That “super-committee” is supposed to come up with
recommendations by Nov. 23, with a guaranteed up-or-down vote by
Congress to prevent obstruction through parliamentary maneuvers.
If Congress doesn’t act, automatic spending cuts begin in 2013.  Still, the sanctions run up against a history of failure
when Congress has tried to motivate itself with threats of
penalties. No Congress can bind a successor, and the impact of
sanctions relies primarily on the political embarrassment of
reversing course.  Enforceable Targets  The 1985 Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act set enforceable budget
targets that Democrats credit with pressuring Republican
President  Ronald Reagan  to agree to tax increases. Still, during
the five years of the law, the spending reductions required were
reduced in one case by Congress and in another overridden by a
subsequent budget agreement.  Among the sanctions that would trigger political pushback
if Congress didn’t meet its goals is an automatic cut of up to
$500 billion in military spending, which would come on top of
$325 billion in defense-spending reductions already in the deal.  “If the American military is cut as much, in the worst
case, as the proposal would cut it, it’s the beginning of the
end of America as a great international power,” Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, said on the Senate floor
yesterday.  While the new joint committee will have broad jurisdiction
to reduce the deficit through both spending cuts and tax
increases, congressional rules present obstacles to using the
Bush-era tax cuts to meet that goal.  The  Congressional Budget Office ’s revenue baseline assumes
those tax cuts will expire as scheduled at the end of 2012.
Republicans want a future revenue level equal to extending all
the cuts, while the administration wants to raise about $1.8
trillion above that level over the next decade by only letting
tax cuts for high-income earners expire. Measured against the
CBO’s yardstick, either approach would be viewed as a tax cut,
not  deficit reduction .  Though White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the
committee could choose to use a different yardstick, at least
one Republican would have to agree for majority support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  