-- 
Senex Says Shale Gas Prospects Have Attracted ‘Global’ Interest

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-08-02T04:23:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/senex-says-shale-gas-prospects-have-attracted-global-interest.html
Senex Energy Ltd., exploring for
shale gas in central  Australia , said it has held initial talks
with international energy producers interested in a potential
partnership to help develop its prospects.  “They’re global players, some of the biggest energy
companies in the world,” Ian Davies, managing director of the
Brisbane-based company, said in a phone interview, declining to
identify the companies. “It’s very preliminary discussions
around a potential material opportunity.”  Senex, formerly Victoria Petroleum NL, aims to drill three
wells in the Cooper Basin by the end of the year, targeting gas
in shale and coal deposits, Davies said today. The drilling,
expected to cost about A$14 million ($15 million) and subject to
the availability of rigs, is part of a 14-well exploration and
development campaign the company plans to carry out in the basin
during the year ending in June 2012, he said.  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and  Hess Corp. (HES)  plan to fund
shale gas exploration with partners in Australia under
agreements announced last month. With almost 400 trillion cubic
feet of estimated shale gas resources that may be recoverable,
Australia has “major” shale potential in four areas including
the Cooper Basin, the U.S. Energy Information Administration
said in April.  “At some point, we’ll have to” find a shale gas partner,
said Davies, the former chief financial officer of Queensland
Gas Co., an Australian company acquired by BG Group in 2008.
“Certainly not before next year. My own view is that we’ve got
more value to add for shareholders by doing these three wells
and taking that risk ourselves. We’ve got the funds for it.”  Sleeper Asset  Senex, about 8 percent owned by the BG unit, renamed QGC,
has climbed 22 percent this year in Sydney, compared with a 6.5
percent drop in the S&P/ASX 200 Index. The shares rose 1 percent
to 50 Australian cents a share at 1:16 p.m. Sydney time.  The company’s Vintage Crop-1 well tested the Roseneath and
Murteree formations for shale gas in the latest quarter and the
initial results “significantly exceeded expectations,” Senex
said in a July 29 statement. Senex had about A$42 million of
cash at the end of June, according to the statement.  “There’s no doubt that the shale gas option within Senex
is a potential sleeper asset,”  Andrew Williams , a Melbourne-
based oil and gas analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said by phone.
“But ultimately, it will come down to what gas price is needed
to make it economic. The shale gas concept in Australia is still
so much in its infancy. There are still a lot of unknowns.”  Beach Energy Ltd. (BPT)  has said it plans to secure a partner to
develop its shale gas assets in the Cooper Basin.  AWE Ltd. (AWE)  plans
to carry out more work on its shale gas acreage in the Perth
Basin of  Western Australia  before signing a partner, Bruce
Clement, the explorer’s managing director, said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  