-- 
Skepticism Greets Obama Debt-Accord Plan for Bigger Deficit Cuts

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-08-02T19:35:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/skepticism-greets-obama-debt-accord-plan-for-bigger-deficit-cuts.html
The U.S. debt-ceiling deal poised for
final congressional approval today creates a special panel that
could easily deadlock and contains an enforcement mechanism for
future belt tightening that exempts big drivers of long-term
deficits, causing skepticism among some budget experts about the
plan’s effectiveness.  Based on past attempts to use budget-cutting mechanisms
known as “triggers,” Congress could vote to override the
automatic spending cuts in the bill intended to force a broader
agreement to reduce the debt by the end of this year.  “It’s terrible,” said  Alice Rivlin , former President Bill Clinton’s budget director who served on a fiscal commission
President Barack Obama set up last year. “But it was much
better than the alternative” of a U.S. government default.  The new law would cut $917 billion in spending over a
decade and assign a special congressional committee to find
another $1.5 trillion in deficit savings by late November, to be
enacted by Christmas. If the committee fails to act or Congress
rejects its recommendations, automatic cuts totalling $1.2
trillion in defense and domestic programs would kick in.  U.S. Credit Rating  Credit rating agencies have cautioned that the first round
of cuts may not be enough to stave off a potentially devastating
downgrade for the U.S. government, heightening the importance of
the new committee’s work.  Representative David Dreier, a California Republican and
head of the House Rules Committee, said the special panel of six
Democratic and six Republican lawmakers is “unprecedented”
because it has “legislative authority.”  Its plan for additional debt reduction would be sent for an
up-or-down vote in both chambers of Congress, sidestepping
parliamentary tactics that could stall it. Though the committee
requires only a simple majority among its members for its
recommendations to be forwarded, doubts surround whether that
can be achieved in the current political climate.  “They’re going to have a hell of a time coming to an
agreement,” said Joe Minarik, senior vice president at the
nonpartisan Committee for  Economic Development , a Washington-
based research group, and a former chief economist in the White
House budget office. “You’re going to have Democrats who’ll try
to get tax increases and Republicans who will be utterly opposed
to having that happen.”  Leader Appointments  Under the debt-ceiling measure that the House passed
yesterday and the Senate votes on today, the Democratic and
Republican leaders in both chambers will have two weeks to
decide on the three appointees each can make. The committee must
vote on its $1.5 trillion deficit-cutting plan by Nov. 23.
Congress must then accept or reject the recommendations by
December 23.  Among  House Republicans , potential picks for the new panel
include Ways and Means Committee Chairman David Camp of Michigan
and Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin -- both of
whom have repeatedly stressed their opposition to tax increases
as a part of a deficit reduction. Ryan also spearheaded a House
budget plan that would privatize Medicare, which Democrats
adamantly oppose.  Gang of Six  Potential candidates also include the six senators -- three
Democrats and three Republicans -- who since early this year
have sought to cobble together a bipartisan debt-reduction plan.
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, was
noncommittal today when asked by reporters whether he’d name any
of his party colleagues who were part of the so-called Gang of
Six, Richard Durbin of  Illinois ,  Mark Warner  of  Virginia  and
Kent Conrad of  North Dakota .  “I’m looking at all senators; I’ve had inquiries by lots
of people, Reid said.”  One of the gang’s Republican members, Senator  Tom Coburn  of
 Oklahoma , said he’s not interested in serving on the new
committee. “I’m committee-ed out,” he said today. “I’ve worked
well over a year-and-a-half on these issues -- they just
probably need some fresh blood.”  Given these divides, other lawmakers foresee a replay of
the impasse that brought the government to the brink of a
default in the recent dispute.  “I guarantee you we are going to be here at that point
after Thanksgiving where nothing is going to happen,” said
Representative Eliot Engel, a New York Democrat.  The linchpin of the agreement is the “trigger” mechanism
to put into effect across-the-board spending cuts in government
programs if the committee deadlocks or if Congress rejects the
panel’s plan.  ‘Damocles Sword’  The model is the 1985 Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act that set
enforceable deficit targets that Democrats credit with having
pressured Republican President  Ronald Reagan  to agree to tax
increases. White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  has likened it
to a “Damocles sword” hanging over Congress that will force an
agreement through the threat of spending cuts equally
unpalatable for both parties.  If the committee can’t agree on at least $1.2 trillion in
savings, automatic cuts of that amount split evenly between
national security and domestic programs including infrastructure
and education would kick in.  The problem some see with the trigger is that it doesn’t
include the prospect of revenue increases that rankle
Republicans or revamping of the entitlement programs opposed by
most Democrats -- policy changes most experts see as essential
to curbing the government’s long-range deficits. Social
Security, Medicaid and  unemployment insurance  would be exempt
from the across-the-board reductions, and Medicare cuts would be
capped and targeted at providers, not beneficiaries.  ‘Swiss Cheese Trigger’  “It just creates a Swiss cheese trigger, which is very
unlikely to have the desired effect” of significant  deficit
reduction , said Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for
a Responsible Federal Budget in  Washington .  Also, the triggers wouldn’t hit until the end of 2012,
which “builds too much time into the process” by allowing
opposition to mobilize to try to thwart the cuts.  As an example of the potential reaction, the deal would
trigger an automatic cut of $500 billion from defense spending,
reductions “so draconian it’s hard to believe they are even on
the table,” Marion Blakey, president of the Aerospace
Industries Association, said in a statement yesterday.  ‘Unholy Alliance’  Bob Bixby , executive director of the Concord Coalition in
Arlington, Virginia, said Republicans who oppose defense cuts
and Democrats who want to prevent domestic spending cutbacks
could form what he termed an “unholy alliance” to stop the
trigger from taking effect.  Precedence is on the side of overriding such mechanisms. In
the five years of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings act, the triggers
kicked in twice. In one case the reductions were reduced by
Congress, and in the other they were overridden by a subsequent
budget agreement.  The likely rules governing the committee’s search for
deficit reduction may also make it tough for lawmakers to
overhaul the  tax code  in a way that generates more revenue.  The  Congressional Budget Office ’s revenue baseline, or
yardstick, assumes that the Bush-era income tax cuts will expire
at the end of 2012, as scheduled. Republicans want a future
revenue level equivalent to extending all the cuts, while the
administration wants to raise about $1.8 trillion above that
level over the next decade. Measured against the CBO’s
yardstick, either approach would be viewed as a  tax cut , not
deficit reduction.  Rivlin said that for all its flaws, the super committee
approach remains the best option for some form of long-term
deficit reduction. “Everybody’s sick of committees and
commissions, including me, but the ordinary political process is
deeply broken and is not working,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  