-- 
Sony Prepares TV Overhaul After 3-D, Google Sets Fail to Revive Earnings

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-08-02T07:42:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/sony-says-it-s-drawing-up-plans-to-revamp-unprofitable-television-business.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , facing an eighth straight
year of losses from its main television operations, is preparing
to overhaul the business to reduce costs and compete against
Samsung Electronics Co.  The plans may include partnerships as well as reorganizing
the procurement, product development and sales operations,  Mami
Imada , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman, said in response to queries
about a Nikkei newspaper report. Details of the reorganization
may be decided this month, she said.  Chairman  Howard Stringer , who’s farmed out production to
Foxconn Technology Group and eliminated thousands of jobs, may
be returning his focus toward cost cuts after 3-D TVs and
Internet-centered sets failed to stem Sony’s slide in market
share against Samsung and LG. The Japanese company last week
replaced its TV head and said it won’t sell as many units as it
had anticipated.  “Sony needs to make deeper changes in the structure of its
TV business,” said Kota Ezawa, a Tokyo-based analyst at
Citigroup Inc. “Selling its factories can only be the first
step.”  Sony closed 0.7 percent higher at 1,973 yen in Tokyo
trading today, narrowing its loss this year to 33 percent. That
compares with the 3.8 percent decline by  Japan ’s benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  The Nikkei newspaper reported earlier today Sony will
outline plans for its TV operations, citing Chief Financial
Officer Masaru Kato.  Back-to-Back-to-Back Losses  The maker of Bravia TVs cut its sales and profit estimates
last week, citing sluggish sales of TVs in the U.S. and  Europe .
Tokyo-based Sony, reeling from three consecutive years of
companywide losses, also slashed its full-year TV sales target
by 19 percent to 22 million units.  Sony also announced at the time that Yoshihisa Ishida,
president of the home-entertainment unit that makes TVs, will be
replaced by Masashi Imamura, president of the personal imaging
group that produces cameras. Ishida will become a deputy CEO at
Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB.  In the past two years, Sony has sold three factories,
reducing its number of TV plants worldwide to four, as part of
the company’s efforts to reduce costs.  Sony agreed last year to sell 90 percent of a TV factory in
Nitra, Slovakia, to Foxconn’s Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.,
after disposing of 90 percent of its largest North American TV-
making assets to Taipei-based Hon Hai. Sony also agreed to sell
a TV facility in  Barcelona  in September.  Dwindling Brand  Edmund Ding , spokesman for Hon Hai, didn’t answer calls to
his mobile and office phones.  Once worth more than $100 billion, Sony has lost half its
market value since Stringer became its first non-Japanese chief
executive officer in 2005. The company that invented the
Trinitron cathode-ray tube TV in the 1960s is now valued at
about $25 billion, less than a quarter the size of Samsung.  Sony may no longer rely on its brand for an edge. Since
Samsung passed Sony in terms of brand value in 2005, the Korean
company has extended its lead,  ranking 19th  in Interbrand’s
latest annual survey of global brands, or 15 places above Sony.  Clinging to the television business may be costing
shareholders. While analysts say Sony shares may climb as sales
of its PlayStation game consoles and Cyber-shot digital cameras
bolster profit this year, stripping out losses at the TV
business from the rest of the company would boost its equity to
$43 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Biggest Division  By selling the TV division, Sony would exit a business that
is forecast to lose almost a billion dollars this year as
consumers unwilling to pay for its  Bravia  flat-screen TVs turn
to cheaper brands. The TV unit had 1.2 trillion yen ($15.5
billion) in sales last year, making it the biggest source of
Sony’s revenue, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shiro Kambe, Sony’s chief spokesman in Tokyo, said
yesterday the company has never considered walking out from the
TV business because of its importance to the company.  The company lagged behind Samsung and Seoul-based  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  in the global TV market last year, with 12.4
percent of sales, according to DisplaySearch. Sony’s share
slipped to 11.4 percent in the first quarter.  A strengthening yen versus the dollar and euro is also
exacerbating Sony’s losses by making its exports less
competitive overseas and reducing the yen value of foreign-
currency denominated sales.  Google TV  Sony, which began offering Internet-enabled TVs in the U.S.
in October that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s software and also introduced
3-D Bravia models last year, said last week it expects the loss
from its TV business to be as large as the 75 billion yen
deficit it reported in the fiscal year ended March.  That would push losses at Sony’s TV division past a half-
trillion yen since 2004, or more than $5 billion based on
historical exchange rates, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Stringer has already eliminated 30,000 jobs, sold factories
and moved production overseas in an effort to revive earnings.  “The reorganization plan should be big enough to surprise
the market,” said Keita Wakabayashi, an analyst at Mito
Securities Co. “It may not be easy for Sony to come up with
something very new to investors after promoting cost
reductions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  