-- 
Mining Companies Must Change ‘Tone’ on South Africa Nationalization Debate

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-08-02T09:50:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/south-africa-faces-time-bomb-of-youth-unemployment-mines-minister-says.html
Mine companies in South Africa, where
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  produce platinum and
coal, have reacted in a “disappointing” way to the debate over
nationalization, the country’s mines minister said.  While reiterating that nationalization isn’t government
policy, Susan Shabangu said companies need to change the
“tone” of their response.  “A lot of companies have indicated that the courts have
the solution to their problems,” Shabangu told mining
executives in Johannesburg today. “They will not, and they will
never. As long as poverty remains within our communities, the
mining environment will never be stabilized.”  South Africa’s ruling party, the  African National Congress ,
is studying nationalization, after the leader of its youth wing,
 Julius Malema , called for mines and banks to be taken over by
the government. Nationalization will create more jobs in a
country where about 25 percent are unemployed and redistribute
wealth to black people disadvantaged under apartheid, Malema has
said.  Nationalization is “a serious risk,” Graham Briggs, chief
executive officer of Harmony Gold Mining Co.,  South Africa ’s
third-largest gold producer, said in an interview in
Johannesburg today. “A lot of our investors -- many of them are
offshore -- are very concerned about it.”  South African political and nationalization risks have
“major value implications,” for companies like Anglo, which
mines most of the world’s platinum in the country, Credit Suisse
Group AG said in a note yesterday.  ‘Free to Disagree’  South Africa is the continent’s largest producer of gold,
supplies European and Indian power plants with coal and depends
on mining for half of exports.  “We need to be free to disagree,” Bheki Sibiya, head of
the Chamber of Commerce, which represents the largest mining
companies operating in South Africa, said in an interview today.
The debate is bound to be “robust,” he said, when asked about
the tone of the industry’s response.  The Chamber said Sept. 24 it’s “emphatically opposed” to
nationalization, an “antiquated and universally discredited
political practice that will have disastrous consequences for
the national economy.”  The  mining industry  needs to do more for communities in
which they operate and the country needs to reduce youth
unemployment, which is a “time bomb,” Shabangu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  