-- 
Southern Copper Sees ‘Positive Result’ From Talks With Humala on Peru Tax

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-08-02T18:51:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/southern-copper-sees-positive-result-from-talks-with-humala-on-peru-tax.html
Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) , the largest
copper producer in Peru, said it expects a “positive result”
from talks with the government of President Ollanta Humala on a
new windfall tax the country plans to levy on miners.  The government, which took office last week, is likely to
support new mining projects such as Southern’s $1 billion Tia
Maria copper mine, Financial Planning Manager Raul Jacob said.
Peru is the world’s third-largest copper and zinc producer.  “We think the government will establish the taxation but
will maintain the cost-competiveness of the  mining industry ,”
Jacob said today in a conference call. The company is
“confident that good investment conditions, stability, social
inclusion and growth will prevail in  Peru ,” he said.  Humala, a former army rebel, is seeking to reassure
investors that his plans to raise mining royalties and tighten
state control over natural resources won’t erode growth and
postpone about $42 billion of planned investments in mining. The
new tax “won’t endanger” new projects, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla told Lima-based Radioprogramas yesterday.  The company plans to meet with Peru’s Mining Minister
Carlos Herrera this month in a bid to restart Tia Maria before
the end of the year, Chief Executive Officer Oscar Gonzalez Rocha said on the call. Southern is “very optimistic” the
government will help restart the project, whose permits were
canceled in April after anti-mining protests, he said.  Merger Proposal  Southern’s board is studying a 2010 proposal by parent
company Grupo Mexico SAB to merge Southern with its Americas
Mining Corp. unit, Jacob said. The plan, which would lead to the
delisting of Southern’s shares, doesn’t have a deadline.  The company, which on July 28 doubled a share buyback plan
to $1 billion, paid $148 million through June for 4.6 million
shares, an average price of $32.32 per share, Jacob said.  The stock fell 2.4 percent to $33.21 at 1:53 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has dropped 32
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  