-- 
Brazil Considers Cigarette Tax Rise to Offset $16 Billion Industry Package

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-08-03T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/souza-cruz-declines-as-brazil-considers-cigarette-tax-raise-1-.html
Brazil  is considering raising taxes
on cigarettes to partially compensate for a $16 billion package
of measures announced yesterday to help manufacturers hurt by
the real’s rally.  “There are discussions about a tax increase on
cigarettes,” Deputy Finance Minister Nelson Barbosa told
reporters yesterday in Brasilia. He declined to elaborate.  Levies on some goods may be raised to prevent a budget
deficit of 2.19 percent of gross domestic product from widening
after President  Dilma Rousseff  announced a 25 billion reais ($16
billion)  tax cut  over the next two years to boost local
production.  Souza Cruz SA (CRUZ3) , Brazil’s largest tobacco company, dropped to
a three-month low yesterday after a government official who had
asked not to be identified said the  Finance Ministry  may raise
taxes on cigarettes. The official spoke before Barbosa’s
comment.  Souza Cruz fell 2.8 percent to 17.74 reais at the close of
 Sao Paulo  trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time, the lowest since
May 4. The Brazilian unit of  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) 
earlier dropped as much as 3.8 percent.  “Taxes on cigarettes are still low in Brazil when compared
to other countries,” Caue Pinheiro, an analyst at SLW Corretora
in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “It’s reasonable
to assume that taxes will eventually go up. Of course, that
would be bad for Souza Cruz, as the company would probably
increase prices to offset the higher taxes, which would affect
sales.”  Spending Reduction  Barbosa said the government may cut spending to offset part
of the tax cuts. The increase of a tax on  consumer credit  in
April also raised tax collection, giving room to the government
to offer tax breaks to exporters, he said.  Brazil doubled a tax on consumer loans on April 7 to slow
demand and inflation.  The government also may take steps to curb vehicle imports
in an effort to protect manufacturers from foreign competition,
the government official who asked not to be identified said.  Brazil is also considering adjusting the terms of a 1
percent tax on derivatives to ensure that exporters hedging
against currency losses aren’t hurt by it, said the official.
The government created the tax last week to discourage bets
against the  U.S. dollar  after the real hit a 12-year high.  An official at Souza Cruz who asked not to be identified
due to internal policy said the company wouldn’t comment on the
issue because a final decision hasn’t yet been made.  Link to Company News: CRUZ3 BZ <Equity> CN
Link to Company News: BATS LN <Equity> CN  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at +55-61-3329-1608 or
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at +55-61-3329-1605 or
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  