-- 
Soybean Stocks to Shrink on Brazil, U.S. Crops, Oil World Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-08-02T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/soybean-stocks-to-shrink-on-brazil-u-s-crops-oil-world-says.html
Global soybean stockpiles will shrink
3.4 percent this year as Brazilian farmers plant corn instead
and adverse weather cuts into the U.S. crop, Oil World said.  Inventories will fall to 72 million metric tons in the
2011-12 marketing year from 74.5 million tons a year earlier,
the Hamburg-based researcher said in a report today. It
predicted output declines of 2.1 percent to 73.5 million tons in
 Brazil  as growers opt to sow more-profitable corn and 2.3
percent to 88.5 million tons in the U.S.  “This year there is increasing competition from grains
which may curb Argentine and Brazilian soybean plantings for the
2012 crop,” Oil World said. “On top of that, the first weather
scare for the U.S. soybean and corn crops occurred in July, and
it remains to be seen whether sufficient rainfall will be
received in the soybean-growing areas in the month of August,
the most critical phase of soybean development in the U.S.”  Soybeans for November delivery were little changed at
$13.615 a bushel by 10:35 a.m. London time on the Chicago Board
of Trade. The oilseed gained 4.9 percent in July after three
declines in a row and is down 3 percent this year.  Brazilian growers will plant 24.75 million hectares (61.2
million acres) with soybeans this year, up 0.2 percent from the
prior year, Oil World said. The corn area will rise 4 percent to
20.3 million hectares, according to the report. The country is
the world’s second-biggest producer and exporter of the oilseed
after the U.S.  Muddy Fields  Soybean planting in the U.S. was delayed by excessive
rainfall that flooded fields or left them too muddy for
machinery, while hot and dry weather since sowing has curbed
yield prospects. The crop was rated 60 percent good or
excellent, down from 66 percent a year earlier, according to
data yesterday from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Oil World said it may reduce its U.S. production estimate
“unless favorable rainfall arrives in time and replenishes
moisture deficits.” U.S. soybean stockpiles will fall 19
percent to 5.1 million tons, the researcher said.  World production of the oilseed will rise 0.5 percent to
266.3 million tons, Oil World said.  Argentina ,  Paraguay  and
other South American countries will increase output, according
to the report. The Southern Hemisphere harvest will gain 2.1
percent to 140.2 million tons, compared with a 1.2 percent drop
in the Northern Hemisphere, it showed.  In Brazil, corn prices have climbed about 70 percent from
last year’s level in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul and 80
percent in Parana, while the grain more than doubled in northern
Mato Grosso, according to the report.  “The recent price increase in corn has been caused by
sizable damage from frosts to the second-crop corn, which was
planted later than usually this year and is currently being
harvested,” Oil World said. “Most of the damage has apparently
occurred in Parana. Plantings of the first corn crop are
competing directly with soybeans in parts of the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 