-- 
Spanish Registered Unemployment Falls Helped by Tourist Season

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-08-02T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/spanish-registered-unemployment-falls-helped-by-tourist-season.html
Spain ’s registered unemployment
declined in July for the fourth month, helped by a recovery in
the country’s tourism industry, even as the nation’s jobless
rate remains the highest in  Europe .  The number of people registering for  unemployment benefits 
fell by 42,059, or 1 percent, from June to 4.07 million, the
 Labor Ministry  in Madrid said in an e-mailed statement today.  Spain received 7.5 percent more tourists in the first six
months than a year earlier and visitors’ spending rose by 10.3
percent in June compared with the same month a year earlier. The
Bank of Spain said on June 29 that the industry, which accounts
for about 10 percent of the economy, is showing “strong
dynamism.”  Improvements in tourism helped joblessness fall to 20.9
percent in the three months through June even as the rate held
above 20 percent for the third consecutive quarter. The
country’s worst recession in six decades has left Spain with the
highest  unemployment rate  in the euro area and the country is
home to about a third of the region’s jobless, according to the
European Union’s statistics office.  The doubling of the unemployment rate to 21 percent since
the collapse of a decade-long property boom and the deepest
budget cuts in at least three decades have eroded support for
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, whose Socialist
government brought forward the next general elections by four
months to Nov. 20.  The government expects the jobless rate to average 19.8
percent this year, the  Finance Ministry  said on April 6,
compared with a previous forecast of 19.3 percent. The economy
will expand 1.3 percent in 2011 after two years of contraction,
with growth accelerating to 2.3 percent next year and 2.4
percent in 2013, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 