-- 
Springboks Will Need Killer Instinct to Retain Rugby World Cup, Coach Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-02T13:49:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/springboks-will-need-killer-instinct-to-retain-rugby-world-cup-coach-says.html
South Africa ’s Springbok rugby team
has to develop a “killer instinct” to successfully defend its
world championship title in  New Zealand  later this year, coach
Peter de Villiers said.  “The guys don’t want to stand out as somebody who made
mistakes,” de Villiers said in a briefing to Parliament’s
sports committee in Cape Town today. “Whenever they’ve got
somebody on the floor, they don’t go for the killer blow.
There’s a fear of risk.”  The  Rugby World Cup  gets under way in New Zealand on Sept.
9. New Zealand’s All Blacks, Australia’s Wallabies and the
Springboks, the top three teams in the International Rugby
Board’s rankings, have been using a truncated version of their
annual Tri-Nations tournament to prepare and fine-tune their
selections.  The  Springboks  left 21 senior players at home for their two
Tri-Nations away games, which they proceeded to lose 39-20 to
the Wallabies on July 23 and 40-7 to the All Blacks a week
later. Several lawmakers questioned whether players are being
rested for the  World Cup , rather than being injured as
management claimed.  “I have no doubt that we did select the best available fit
team,” said Jurie Roux, chief executive officer of the South
African Rugby Union. “Yes, in a normal year we probably would
have pushed five or six players to go and play in the Tri-
Nations, but it is not a normal year. We are doing what is best
for this team, and what is best for this team is that the people
who are injured get rehabilitated.”  Most of South Africa’s leading players were playing too
much club rugby, making them more susceptible to injury,  De
Villiers  said.  “We are looking at fresh and revitalized players,” to
take to the World Cup, he said. “We go for experience most of
the time and we go for great leadership. We are looking for the
classy players that can be world beaters. There are no
sentimental selections.”  A team’s kicking and defensive abilities will be key to
winning the World Cup, according to the coach.  “At nine o’clock at night with wet fields, keeping the
ball in hand from your own try line is going to be
detrimental,” he said. “We don’t think it is going to be
feasible to win without having the best kicking game around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders in  London  at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 