-- 
Market Erases 2011 Gains on Recession Concern

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-02T20:53:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/stocks-retreat-on-signs-economies-are-slowing-swiss-franc-reaches-record.html
 Stocks tumbled as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index had its biggest one-day loss in a year and
erased its 2011 gain, while Treasury yields fell to the lowest
levels since November, after an unexpected drop in  consumer
spending  added to concern the economy will slide into a
recession. Gold and the Swiss franc rallied.  The S&P 500 fell 2.6 percent to 1,254.05 at 4 p.m. in New
York, dropping for a seventh straight day in its longest slump
since 2008. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 1.9 percent to
an 11-month low. Yields on 30-year bonds dropped 17 basis points
to 3.91 percent in the biggest decrease since May 2010. The
Swiss franc advanced against all 16 major peers as 10-year
Italian and Spanish bond yields climbed to euro-era records and
gold set an all-time high of $1,661.90 an ounce.  Investors sought the safety of Treasuries, gold and the
Swiss currency even as President  Barack Obama  signed a plan to
raise the federal debt limit before a possible default.
Attention has shifted to weakening economic data, including
today’s 0.2 percent decrease in consumer spending, the slowest
growth in personal incomes since November and an index of
American manufacturing sinking to a two-year low.  “We have a stubbornly slow economy,”  Hank Smith , chief
investment officer at Haverford Trust Co. in Radnor,
Pennsylvania, said in a telephone interview. His firm manages
about $6.5 billion. “The economy is stuck in a very slow growth
mode, which means that it’s more susceptible to any external
shocks.”  Recession Odds  The odds of another U.S. downturn are rising amid cutbacks
in spending by consumers and the government, according to five
of the nine members of the panel that dates recessions. Harvard
University economics professor  Martin Feldstein , one of the
members of committee at the National Bureau of Economic
Research, said he sees a 50 percent chance that the U.S. will
relapse into another recession.  “Nothing has given us much growth,” Feldstein said today
in a Bloomberg Television interview on “Surveillance Midday”
with  Tom Keene .  Today’s retreat was the biggest for the S&P 500 since Aug.
11 and left the index down 0.3 percent in 2011 following a rally
of as much as 8.4 percent through the end of April. All 10
industry groups fell today, led by declines of more than 3.4
percent in industrial and consumer-discretionary companies.  Pfizer Inc., General Electric Co. and Home Depot Inc. lost
at least 4.2 percent to lead declines in all 30 stocks in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average . The Dow sank 265.87 points, or 2.2
percent, to 11,866.62 for its biggest loss since June 1. The  S&P
500  closed at its lowest level since Dec. 20, while the Dow
ended the day at its weakest since March 18.  Earnings Season  Archer Daniels Midland Co., the world’s largest grain
processor, tumbled 6.2 percent as earnings trailed projections
after corn and tax expenses rose. MetroPCS Communications Inc.,
the pay-as-you-go mobile-phone carrier, lost 36 percent for the
biggest decline in the S&P 500 as sales fell short of analysts’
forecasts.  Two-year Treasury yields decreased five basis points to
0.32 percent and 10-year yields sank 13 points to 2.61 percent.
The difference between two- and 10-year yields shrank to 2.29
percentage points, the narrowest since November, as demand
reduced the extra yield investors require to hold longer-
maturity debt.  Fitch Ratings  said the U.S. remains under a review as the
nation’s debt burden increases at a pace that isn’t consistent
with an AAA sovereign credit rating. The U.S. needs to confront
“tough” choices on tax and spending against a weak economic
backdrop if the  budget deficit  and government debt is to be cut
to safer levels over the medium term, Fitch said.  Debt Deal Sealed  President Obama signed a debt-limit compromise that
prevents a U.S. default on the day the Treasury had warned the
nation’s borrowing authority would expire, ending a months-long
debate that reinforced partisan divisions over federal spending.  The Senate voted 74-26 for the measure, which raises the
nation’s debt ceiling until 2013 and threatens automatic
spending cuts to enforce $2.4 trillion in spending reductions
over the next 10 years. It won backing from 45 Democrats, 28
Republicans and one independent. The House passed the plan
yesterday.  The S&P 500 capped a 3.9 percent weekly loss on July 29,
its worst slump in a year, as the Commerce Department reported
gross domestic product rose a less-than-forecast 1.3 percent
annual rate in the second quarter following a 0.4 percent gain
in the prior quarter that was less than previously estimated.  Jobs Watch  Investors also looked ahead to the government’s employment
report at the end of the week. The nation is forecast to have
added 85,000 jobs in July, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, and the  unemployment rate  is
projected to hold steady at 9.2 percent.  “Maybe we’ll get a positive number on Friday, but I
wouldn’t be shocked if we got a negative one, and I don’t see
any strong job growth at all for the next few months until we
get a little bit of momentum in terms of final demand,” David Kelly, the chief market strategist at JPMorgan Funds, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “You need to have sustained
growth of one-and-a-half percent even to produce positive
payrolls.”  Fourteen stocks fell for each that gained in the Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index. Pandora A/S plunged 65 percent as the Danish
maker of charm bracelets cut its forecast and Chief Executive
Officer Mikkel Vendelin Olesen quit. Metro AG,  Germany ’s largest
retailer, slid 7.5 percent as earnings missed estimates.  The Swiss franc strengthened more than 2.6 percent to a
record 1.08467 per euro and appreciated 2.2 versus the dollar.
The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against those
of six trading partners, rose 0.3 percent.  Italy , Spain Yields  The yield on the Italian 10-year bond jumped as much as 25
basis points to 6.25 percent, driving the extra yield investors
demand to hold the securities instead of benchmark German bunds
to as high as 3.84 percentage points, a euro-era record. The
Spanish 10-year yield surged as much as 26 basis points to 6.46
percent, also the highest since the euro was introduced in 1999.  Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  led a meeting of Italy’s
stability committee and determined that the recent turmoil on
Italian financial markets reflects “international
uncertainty.”  “Analysis has shown that despite the efforts to
progressively reduce the budget deficit, there are tensions in
Italian markets deriving from international uncertainty,” the
committee said in a statement after the meeting in  Rome .  Credit-default swaps tied to Spain’s debt surged 15 basis
points to 405 and Italy’s jumped 25 to 358,  according to CMA.
The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of contracts on 15
governments jumped 13 basis points to 291, approaching the
record closing price of 306.5 set July 18.  ‘Ugly Contest’  “In this U.S.-versus-Europe ugly contest, it’s hard to
decide where to start from,” analysts at BNP Paribas wrote in a
research note. “The economic slowdown is blatantly obvious in
the large drop in U.S. manufacturing. And the issue of a U.S.
downgrade remains open. Things are looking less comfy in Europe
too, with Italy spreads again under severe pressure.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities lost
less than 0.1 percent for a fifth straight decline. Crude oil
fell to a five-week low, dropping 1.2 percent to $93.79 a
barrel. Sugar lost 2.8 percent and gasoline slipped 1 percent.  Corn, Wheat Rally  Corn surged the most in three months, jumping the exchange
limit of 30 cents, or 4.4 percent, to close at $7.1575 a bushel.
A government report showed adverse weather eroded U.S. crop
conditions. Soybeans had the biggest gain in almost three weeks,
and wheat jumped to an eight-week high.  The Australian dollar slid 1.6 percent versus the greenback
and the yen after the central bank kept its benchmark interest
rate unchanged, citing an “acute sense of uncertainty in global
financial markets.”  Reserve Bank  Governor  Glenn Stevens  held
the overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent in Sydney for a
record eighth-straight meeting.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of equities lost 2 percent,
the steepest drop since May 23. South Korea’s Kospi Index fell
2.4 percent, the most since May 23. The Shanghai Composite Index
declined 0.9 percent after an official Xinhua News Agency
website said  China  may boost borrowing costs next week. The
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index dropped 1.1 percent after
Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said yesterday
that  interest rates  would have to rise further.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  