-- 
Swiss Franc Strengthens to Record Versus Euro Amid Global Growth Concern

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m i l y   B l e w e t t
-- 
2011-08-02T08:16:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/swiss-franc-strengthens-to-record-versus-euro-amid-global-growth-concern.html
The  Swiss franc  strengthened to 1.10
against the euro for the first time since records began as
concern mounted that debt problems in the U.S. and the euro
region will damp growth, boosting its appeal as a haven.  Switzerland’s currency strengthened against all 16 of its
major peers tracked by Bloomberg, extending gains that Economy
Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said may mean “tough years”
for exporters. The  Institute for Supply Management  reported
yesterday that its U.S. factory index slumped to 50.9 in July,
the least in two years, from 55.3 a month earlier. Economists in
a Bloomberg News survey projected it would drop to 54.5.  “The  Swiss National Bank  and corporate Switzerland are
bearing the brunt of the wider debt problems in the U.S. and
 euro zone ,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International in  London . “We are already seeing the
Swiss economy hurt by the currency strengthening. With further
strengthening, it is going to prove more difficult for the
economy as a whole and for individual companies.”  The Swiss currency jumped 0.8 percent to 1.1075 per euro as
of 9:14 a.m. in London, after appreciating to 1.09877, the
strongest since the unified European currency’s introduction in
1999. The franc gained 0.6 percent to 77.89 centimes per dollar.
It reached a record 77.31 centimes yesterday.  The strength of the franc against the euro and the dollar
is here to stay, heralding some “extremely tough years” for
exporters and the  tourism industry , Schneider-Ammann said
yesterday.  A report today showed Swiss manufacturing growth
unexpectedly accelerated in July. The Swiss Purchasing Managers’
Index increased to 53.5 last month from 53.4 in the prior month,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG index. Economists forecast
the gauge to fall to 52.5, the median of 11 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Blewett in London at 
 eblewett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  