-- 
U.K. Retail Inflation Slows as Stores Cut Prices to Woo Shoppers

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-02T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-k-retail-inflation-slows-as-stores-cut-prices-to-woo-shoppers.html
U.K. shop-price growth slowed last
month as food inflation eased and retailers offered discounts to
attract shoppers, the  British Retail Consortium  said.  Retail prices rose 2.8 percent from a year earlier after
advancing 2.9 percent in June, the BRC and Nielsen Co. said in
an e-mailed report in London today. On the month, prices fell
0.2 percent after increasing 0.5 percent in June.  Britons are seeing their finances squeezed at the fastest
pace since the 1970s as inflation outpaces wage growth and the
government implements budget cuts and increases sales tax to
reduce the deficit. The  Bank of England  will keep its key
 interest rate  at a record low tomorrow, economists forecast, as
recent survey data adds to signs the recovery is faltering.  “We have seen sales volumes slow across both food and non-
food retailing in recent weeks,” said Mike Watkins, Nielsen’s
senior manager for retailer services. “Retailers have responded
with a continuation of price cuts and promotions. Whilst prices
will still be higher than last year, the rate of increase may
start to slow later in the year.”  Food-price inflation slowed to an annual 5.2 percent in
July from 5.7 percent the previous month, while the rate of non-
food price gains was unchanged at 1.3 percent, the BRC said. It
cited “good crops” of fruit and vegetables and a decline in
meat prices for the easing in food inflation.  In a separate report today, KPMG LLP and the Recruitment
and Employment Confederation said an index of hiring of full-
time staff rose in July from a 22-month low in June, while
starting pay for people placed in permanent jobs climbed from a
20-month low.  The gauge of permanent job placements reported by
employment consultancies rose to 52.4 from 52.2, the groups
said. The measure of average salaries awarded to employees
finding a permanent position gained to 53.4 from 51.2. Readings
above 50 indicate an increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  