-- 
U.S. Company Credit Risk Climbs on More Evidence of Weak Economy

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-02T16:46:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-s-company-credit-risk-climbs-on-more-evidence-of-weak-economy.html
A gauge of credit risk for U.S.
companies climbed to its highest level in two weeks as attention
turned from a debt-limit impasse that’s almost been resolved to
the latest weaker-than-expected economic data.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1.3 basis points to a
mid-price of 97.3 basis points as of 12:28 p.m. in New York. The
gauge, which typically rises when investor confidence
deteriorates, is at the highest level since July 18.  With the Senate expected to pass an increase in the U.S.
debt ceiling, credit investors refocused on sluggish growth as
data today showed consumer spending dropped in June. A report
yesterday showed the  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory
index dropped to 50.9, the lowest in two years.  “All that is left of real focus is economic data, which
has been very disappointing over the last month or two,” said
Rich Gordon, a fixed-income market strategist at Wells Fargo &
Co. The debt ceiling agreement means the economy will lose
another large chunk of federal spending, which has helped fuel
its recovery the past two years, he said.  The proposed legislation passed by the House yesterday
would increase the government’s debt limit by at least $2.1
trillion while cutting expenses by $2.4 trillion or more.  “Stimulus spending is running out and these corporations
are still sitting on an enormous amount of cash on their balance
sheets and not really hiring,” Gordon said.  Consumer spending  fell 0.2 percent, after a 0.1 increase
the prior month, the Commerce Department said. The median
estimate of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a 0.1 percent increase. Spending by consumers makes up about 70
percent of the  U.S. economy  and is tied closely to hiring.  “It’s just been a string of disappointing data and it
points to a weaker economy than people thought,” Gordon said.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meets its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in  New York  at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  