-- 
U.S. Downgrade Wouldn’t Roil Mortgage Bond Markets, Annaly Says

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-08-02T17:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-s-downgrade-wouldn-t-roil-mortgage-bond-markets-annaly-says.html
The market for government-backed
mortgage securities won’t be roiled by forced sales prompted by
any reduction in the U.S. government’s credit rating, said the
leader of the biggest real estate investment trust that focuses
on mortgage holdings.  “Anyone who has concern about the selling off of assets
under forced liquidations because of a downgrade is making a
severe misjudgment,” Michael Farrell said on a conference call
with analysts and investors today. Farrell is chief executive
officer of  Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY)  Farrell’s  New York- 
based real-estate investment trust is the largest that invests
in mortgage debt, with $100.5 billion of assets as of June 30.  Shares of mortgage REITs and the $5.2 trillion market for
so-called agency mortgage bonds have recently come under
pressure during the federal debt-ceiling debate, as investors
became concerned that a credit downgrade would lead to forced
sales of government-backed mortgage bonds, and damage the market
investors rely on for financing. An index of mortgage REITs
including Annaly on July 29 dropped to the lowest in 11 months.
The index has rebounded 2.7 percent since.  Rules for broker-dealers, banks and  money market funds 
related to securities issued or guaranteed by the government
don’t reference ratings, meaning lower grades would have little
effect, Farrell said on a conference call with analysts today.
An “exception” is “perhaps some corporate funds,” he said.  Repo Rates  The cost of one-month repurchase agreement, or repo,
financing for government-backed mortgage securities declined 5
basis points today to 33 basis points of 10:17 a.m., after
yesterday reaching the highest since Dec. 29, according to data
from ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker. The rate
has climbed from 18 basis points on July 18. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  Repo markets remain “incredibly reliable” and Annaly
isn’t concerned the increased rates are “going to impact us,”
Farrell said.  The  Federal Reserve ’s increased oversight of repo markets,
after they played a role in the financial crisis that spanned
from mid-2007 through early 2009, should also provide investors
comfort, Farrell added.  “Because of all the things the Fed has put in place and
learned, especially on the supervisory side, they are way
aheadof the curve in terms of protecting the repo market,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  