-- 
U.S. Pressures Assad With Talks to Activists, Sanctions Proposal

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   V i c t o r i a   P e l h a m
-- 
2011-08-03T12:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-s-boosts-syria-pressure-with-sanctions-plan-activist-talks.html
The U.S. is stepping up the pressure
on  Syria , as Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  met yesterday
with opposition activists and lawmakers announced new sanctions
legislation against the regime of President Bashar al-Assad.  The Obama administration is also looking at ways to bolster
existing sanctions, in Congress and with the  United Nations , and
is working with allies to hit Syria with new energy-related
penalties, according to Clinton and the U.S. ambassador to
Syria,  Robert Ford .  Clinton met with Syrian-American opposition supporters
after government forces battered the city of Hama with artillery
and tank fire for the third consecutive day. The clashes
prompted President Barack Obama to decry Assad’s “brutality”
and renew U.S. determination to squeeze the Assad regime.  Clinton said she assured the activists of the
administration’s support of their efforts to bring about a
“peaceful and orderly transition to democracy,” the top U.S.
diplomat said in a statement released late yesterday. “We have
nothing invested in the continuation of a regime that must kill,
imprison and torture its own citizens to maintain power.”  The goal of additional sanctions is “to isolate the Assad
regime politically and deny it revenue with which to sustain its
brutality,” Clinton said.  Security Council  Meeting  She also noted the United Nations Security Council talks
this week to discuss the situation in Syria and chided council
members, such as  China , that oppose calling on Assad to end the
violence.  “Strong action by the Security Council on the targeting of
innocent civilians in Syria is long overdue,” Clinton said.
“Some members of the Security Council continue to oppose any
action that would call on President Assad to stop the killing,
and we urge them to reconsider their positions.”  Ford, who met with Obama two days ago, told senators at his
confirmation hearing on  Capitol Hill  yesterday that backing the
forces of change could give the U.S. a chance to reshape the
region.  “We have a real opportunity with change in Syria to see
both Iranian influence and Hezbollah influence in the region
diminish,” said Ford, a career diplomat who has been serving as
ambassador under a December 2010 recess appointment by Obama.  Syria is  Iran ’s chief ally in the region, and both support
Hezbollah, the Lebanon-based Shiite Muslim political group that
the U.S. considers a terrorist organization.  Iranian Connection  Since the protests began in mid-March, Iran has provided
Syria with military and technical assistance to help it suppress
protesters, according to the lawmakers behind a new bill that
would punish companies that invest in Syria’s energy sector.  Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a New York Democrat; Senator
 Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican; and Senator Joseph Lieberman,
a Connecticut independent, introduced the Syria Sanctions Act of
2011 to target the one-third of the country’s revenue that comes
from oil and gas exports.  U.S. law bans most trade with Syria. The sanctions measure
would extend those restrictions to foreign companies. It would
require the president to block access to U.S. financial
institutions, markets and federal contracts for those who do
business with the Syrian energy sector.  Companies that falsely claim not to do business with Syria
would be subject to a three-year ban on U.S. government
contracts.  ‘Sweep Away’ Assad  “Syria will not have access to the global economy and
neither will any company doing business with Syria,” Gillibrand
said in a statement. Doing business with Syria funds terrorism,
she said.  Kirk said the Arab Spring movement that has already toppled
leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia  “will sweep away this
dictatorship, hopefully with the help of American sanctions.”  In his testimony to senators, Ford said that unilateral
U.S. sanctions “don’t have much bite” because there is so
little U.S.-Syria trade.  Sanctions with allies that have greater trade ties with
Syria would be more effective, he said, adding that “Europeans
and Canadians have greater investments in Syria’s energy
sector” and that conversations about sanctions with those
countries are under way.  “The Syrian government’s latest action will help trigger
action, frankly,” Ford said of the recent violence and the
international outrage it has generated.  Asking for More  The Syrian activists asked Clinton to have the U.S. do more
to rally that kind of international pressure on the Assad
regime.  Radwan Ziadeh, a visiting scholar at the Institute for
Middle East Studies at  George Washington University  in
Washington, told reporters they called on the U.S. to lead at
the Security Council, which at the same time was meeting in  New
York  to discuss a revised draft resolution submitted by Britain,
 France ,  Germany  and  Portugal  to condemn the violence.  The activists asked for increased sanctions against Syria
and for the Security Council to refer the actions taken during a
recent crackdown on protesters to the  International Criminal
Court . And they told Clinton that they would like Obama to
“address the courage of the Syrian people” and demand that
Assad step down, a step the president has yet to take.  “We are seeking diplomatic and political support from the
 United States ,” opposition activist Marah Bukai said.  Clinton expressed her admiration and support for Syrians
defying the government assault, even as fasting for the Muslim
holy month of Ramadan has begun, said Mark Toner, the State
Department’s acting spokesman.  Toner said the grass-roots Syrian opposition has only grown
in strength and numbers as the crackdown has continued. As a
group, though, the opposition is still “evolving,” Toner said,
and still lacks the coherence of the Transitional National
Council that formed to oppose  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Pelham in Washington at 
 vpelham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  