-- 
Fitch Puts U.S. Credit Rating Under Review

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-02T19:10:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-s-sovereign-rating-is-placed-under-review-by-fitch-as-debt-burden-grows.html
Fitch Ratings  said the U.S. is under
a review as the nation’s debt burden increases at a pace that
isn’t consistent with an AAA sovereign credit rating.  The firm said it expects to complete the ratings review by
the end of August given the approval today of debt-limit
compromise that prevents a U.S. default.  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. also have the U.S. under review
for possible downgrades.  “Although the agreement is a good first step in adjusting
the fiscal challenges that the U.S. faces, it is just a first
step,”  David Riley , Fitch’s London-based head of sovereign
ratings, said in a telephone interview. “Does it mean that the
AAA rating is completely secure of the medium term? No.”  The U.S. must confront “tough choices on tax and spending
against a weak economic backdrop if the  budget deficit  and
government debt is to be cut,” Fitch said in a statement today.
The ratio of general government debt, including state and local
governments, to gross domestic product is projected to climb to
100 percent in 2012, the most of any country with an AAA
ranking, Fitch said in April.  President  Barack Obama  signed the debt-limit compromise on
the day the Treasury had warned the nation’s borrowing authority
would expire, ending a months-long debate that reinforced
partisan divisions over federal spending.  No Magic Bullet  The Senate voted 74-26 for the measure, which raises the
nation’s debt ceiling until 2013 and threatens automatic
spending cuts to enforce $2.4 trillion in spending reductions
over the next 10 years. The House passed the plan yesterday.  “This agreement, we think, is a net positive,” Riley
said. “It’s not a magic bullet in terms of the rating. The
near-term risks to the U.S. AAA from Fitch are not high.”  A downgrade would raise the specter that the wrangling
between Obama and Republican lawmakers over spending cuts and
taxes will harm American prestige and the global financial
system. JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimated that a downgrade would
raise the nation’s borrowing costs by $100 billion a year. It
could also hurt the rest of the  U.S. economy  by increasing the
cost of mortgages, auto loans and other types of lending tied to
the  interest rates  paid on Treasuries.  Still, U.S. bonds and the dollar have signaled increased
demand for the assets of the world’s largest economy even with
the prospects of losing the AAA rating rising as the debt talks
extended to the deadline when the Treasury said it would exhaust
its ability to borrow.  Global Demand  Treasury yields average about 0.70 percentage point less
than the rest of the world’s sovereign debt markets, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The difference has expanded
from 0.15 percentage point in January.  Investors from  China  to the U.K. are lending money to the
U.S. government for a decade at the lowest rates of the year.
For many of them, there are few alternatives outside the U.S.,
no matter what its  credit rating .  Ten-year Treasury yields fell to as low as 2.63 percent
today in  New York , the least since November. The dollar
represents 60.7 percent of the world’s currency reserves,
compared with the 26.6 percent for the euro, which has the next
biggest portion, according to the  International Monetary Fund  in
Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  