-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Gold Climbs on Slowing Global Growth

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-08-02T11:43:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-gold-climbs-on-slowing-global-growth.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Advances to Near Record as Slowing Growth Increases Demand  Gold climbed toward a record in  London  as concern that
global economic growth may be slowing boosted demand for the
metal as a protection of wealth.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Wilmar Says to Raise Cooking Oil Prices in China by About 5%  Wilmar International Ltd. said it is raising its cooking
oil product prices in China by about 5 percent, according to an
e-mailed statement from the company. It did not elaborate.  BullionVault Lures Most Funds Since Lehman’s Collapse on Haven  BullionVault, an online service for private investors to
buy and sell physical gold, attracted the most funds last month
since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 on
demand for a haven.  Nations to Stake Out Seabed as Mining Gets Harder, Nautilus Says  Nautilus Minerals Inc., a Canadian company planning an
underwater mine for copper and gold off the Papua New Guinea
coast, said countries will try to stake out the seabed as
mineral deposits on land become harder to mine.  Bow Energy Shares Advance in Sydney Trading Amid Takeover Talk  Bow Energy Ltd. gained 19 percent in two days in Sydney
trading amid speculation the Australian coal-seam gas explorer
may be an acquisition target.  Coffee Seen Rising 10% in Two Months as  Vietnam  Delays Exports  Robusta coffee may gain almost 10 percent in the next two
months because of delays to deliveries from Vietnam, the world’s
biggest producer, and the prospect of a smaller crop in
Indonesia, according to Natixis SA.  Oil Supplies Rise on Reserve Release in Survey: Energy Markets  U.S. crude oil supplies rose for a second week as the
government released barrels from the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Senex Says Shale Gas Prospects Have Attracted ‘Global’ Interest  Senex Energy Ltd., exploring for shale gas in central
Australia, said it has held initial talks with international
energy producers interested in a potential partnership to help
develop its prospects.  Tanker Demolitions Slowing Swells Vessel Glut: Freight Markets  Demolitions of supertankers, which carry about 20 percent
of the world’s oil, are slowing as ship owners accept
unprofitable rates rather than write off assets, creating the
industry’s biggest glut in 29 years.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Aluminum May Gain 9% in Shanghai on Tight Supply, Stanchart Says  Aluminum prices in  China  may rise about 9 percent “in
coming weeks” amid concerns about a shortage in the world’s
largest consumer and producer of the metal, according to
Standard Chartered Plc analyst Judy Zhu.  Copper Trades at $9,650 a Ton in London, Erasing Earlier Advance  Copper for delivery in three months was unchanged at $9,650
a metric ton by 11:59 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange, erasing
an earlier gain today of 0.8 percent.  MINING:  Centamin Egypt Shares Have Biggest Slump on Production Cut (1)  Centamin Egypt Ltd., a gold producer operating in the north
African country, fell the most on record in London trading after
cutting its projected output.  Merafe Resources Profit Falls 54% on Costs, Stronger Rand (1)  Merafe Resources Ltd., part-owner with Xstrata Plc of the
world’s biggest ferrochrome producer, said first-half profit
fell 54 percent as higher costs and a stronger South African
currency eroded earnings.  Macarthur Coal Continues Talks for Rival to Peabody Offer (3)  Macarthur Coal Ltd. is continuing talks with potential
rival bidders to a takeover offer from Peabody Energy Corp. and
ArcelorMittal that values the company at A$4.7 billion ($5.2
billion).  Xstrata’s Profit Increases 27% on Higher Coal, Copper Prices (1)  Xstrata Plc, the largest exporter of power-station coal,
said first-half profit rose 27 percent after commodity prices
advanced.  Highland Gold Says Mnogovershinnoye Mine Reserves Almost Triple  Highland Gold Mining Ltd. said reserves at its
Mnogovershinnoye mine in  Russia ’s Khabarovsk region almost
tripled.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Fresnillo First-Half Profit Doubles as Silver Prices Advance (1)  Fresnillo Plc, the world’s largest primary silver producer,
said first-half profit more than doubled after prices of the
metal increased.  Gold Coins Sell Out in Lisbon as Biggest Bet Sees 22% Gain (3)  Rui Lola says gold sales at his foreign exchange and coin
store in downtown Lisbon almost doubled this year, draining
inventories faster than he can replace them.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Declines as Rain Prevents U.S. Crop From Deteriorating  Corn dropped in  Chicago  after rainfall in the U.S. Midwest
prevented the crop’s condition from worsening, according to the
Department of Agriculture.  Sugar Falls for Fifth Day on Brazilian Exports; Coffee Rises  Sugar fell for a fifth day in London, the longest losing
streak since April, as higher exports from  Brazil  fueled
speculation supply will be ample as elevated prices dent demand.
Coffee advanced.  Japan  Widens Cattle Shipment Ban as Tochigi Beef Contaminated  Japan widened a shipment ban to encompass 13 percent of the
nation’s total herd as radioactive contamination was detected in
beef in Tochigi prefecture, south of the stricken Fukushima
nuclear station.  Crystal Sugar’s Upward Price Move in Brazil Weakens, Cepea Says  The upward move in crystal sugar prices in Brazil has
started to weaken, with gains at 1.8 percent last week compared
with 5.1 percent the previous week, according to Cepea, a
University of Sao Paulo research group.  Rice May Sustain Rally as U.S. Acreage Declines, Ofon Says (1)  Rice, the best-performing grain this year, may sustain a
rally as acreage in the U.S. slumps, reducing production from
the third-largest exporter, according to Standard Chartered Plc.  Rubber Declines as U.S. Data, Car Sales Increase Demand Concern  Rubber declined after data showed U.S. manufacturing grew
at its slowest pace in two years and car sales in Japan dropped,
raising concern that demand for the commodity used to make tires
and gloves may weaken.  Japan Seeks Least Milling Wheat in Six Weeks From U.S. (1)  Japan is seeking to buy 103,342 metric tons of U.S. milling
wheat in a regular tender on Aug. 4, the smallest volume in
almost six weeks, according to the Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Fisheries.  SHIPPING:  Iraq  to Reduce Kirkuk Crude Daily Exports for August by 10%  Iraq will reduce its daily exports of Kirkuk crude in
August from the Turkish port of Ceyhan on the Mediterranean by
10 percent from July, according to a shipping schedule obtained
by Bloomberg News.  Seaarland, Central Falls, Awal, West End, Jesuits: Bankruptcy  Seaarland Shipping Management, a vessel manager, filed for
Chapter 11 protection on July 29 in  New York  along with
affiliates that own six tankers and bulk carriers.  ECONOMIES:  China’s Auditor Finds ‘Questions’ Over $51 Billion of Spending  China’s national auditor said it found 328 billion yuan
($51 billion) of spending at government agencies and companies
last year that raised “questions.”  RBA Holds Key Rate at 4.75% to Gauge U.S. and China Slowdowns  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  kept the benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged today, saying that while its board considered
boosting borrowing costs, it was prudent to hold off because of
a clouded global economic outlook.  China’s Stocks Drop to 6-Week Low on Manufacturing Slump, CPI  China’s stocks fell, driving down the benchmark index to a
six-week low, after manufacturing growth slowed in the world’s
two largest economies and an official Chinese newspaper said
inflation pressure is still high.  Debt Deal Puts U.S. on Austerity Path as Economy Falters (1)  The federal government looks to be getting out of the
business of trying to spur the economy just as the U.S.
expansion shows increasing signs of faltering.  Fed May Weigh More Stimulus on Flagging Recovery Signs (1)  Federal Reserve policy makers may start weighing additional
steps to prop up the recovery after growth fell below 1 percent
in the first half of this year and economists began cutting
second-half growth forecasts.  House Passes $2.1 Trillion U.S. Debt-Limit Increase Plan (2)  The House of Representatives approved legislation to raise
the U.S. debt limit by at least $2.1 trillion and cut federal
spending by $2.4 trillion or  more, one day before a threatened
default.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks, Treasury Yields Drop on U.S. Outlook; Franc at Record  European stocks dropped to a 10-month low, U.S. futures
fell and Treasury yields reached the lowest this year on signs
U.S. growth is slowing. The Swiss franc and the cost of insuring
against  France  defaulting rose to a record.  Euro Declines Against Dollar, Franc Amid Surging Italian Yields  The euro weakened against the dollar and depreciated to
less than 1.10 Swiss francs for the first time as surging bond
yields in  Italy  reawakened concern that the region’s debt crisis
will worsen amid slowing global growth.  Asian Currencies Drop on U.S. Growth Concern, Declining Stocks  Asian currencies weakened, led by Malaysia’s ringgit and
the Philippine peso, on concern a slowing  U.S. economy  will hurt
the global recovery and damp demand for the region’s exports.  European Stocks Drop Amid U.S. Growth Concern; Pandora Sinks  European stocks fell to the lowest level in almost 10
months amid concern that a slowdown in the world’s largest
economy is derailing global growth. Asian shares and U.S. index
futures declined.  China Stocks ‘More Immune’ to Euro, U.S. Woes: Chart of the Day  China’s stocks may perform better than counterparts
elsewhere in  Asia  should the debt crises in  Europe  and the U.S.
worsen, according to Credit Suisse Group AG, which said the
nation’s loans from the two regions are of “virtual
irrelevance” in the world’s second-largest economy.  Crude Oil  Falls a Third Day on U.S. Growth Outlook, Stockpiles  Oil declined for a third day in New York, the longest
losing streak since May, as signs that the U.S. economy is
slowing countered speculation the world’s biggest crude consumer
will resolve its debt crisis.  SPORTS:  Tottenham Is Front-Runner to Sign Joey Barton: Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
media, with clickable links to the Web.  Wallabies Omit Sharpe, Giteau From Squad to Face All Blacks (1)  Australia will take on  New Zealand  in this week’s Tri-
Nations rugby Test without its two most experienced players
after Nathan Sharpe and Matt Giteau were left off the 24-man
match squad.  Tiger Woods  Plays Practice Round in Atlanta for PGA Championship  Tiger Woods played a practice round yesterday at Atlanta
Athletic Club in preparation for this month’s PGA Championship.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  