-- 
New York State’s Fracking Lawsuit Barred by Law, U.S. Says

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-08-02T22:13:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-s-seeks-to-dismiss-new-york-state-lawsuit-over-natural-gas-drilling.html
The U.S. government said it will ask
a judge to dismiss a  New York  lawsuit that seeks to force a
fuller environmental review of how natural-gas extraction could
affect 9 million water drinkers in the state.  The U.S. plans to ask U.S. District Judge Nicholas Garaufis
in  Brooklyn , New York, to dismiss the case on the grounds that
the state can’t prove injury and doesn’t have the right to sue
federal agencies, according to a letter filed with the court
yesterday.  The New York state complaint is “barred by well-settled
principles of sovereign immunity,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Sandra Levy wrote in the letter to the judge. Sovereign immunity
protects the U.S. from lawsuits unless it waives the right.  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  sued on May 31,
saying a commission that oversees the  Delaware  River Basin has
proposed regulations that will allow hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, at 15,000 to 18,000 gas wells without a full
environmental review. Fracking is the process in which water,
sand and chemicals are pumped underground to break apart rock
formations and release natural gas.  “As our complaint makes clear, the federal government has
an obligation to undertake the necessary environmental impact
study,” Schneiderman spokeswoman Lauren Passalacqua said in a
statement.  Marcellus Shale  Schneiderman’s suit seeks to halt the regulations until the
commission complies with the National Environmental Policy Act’s
requirement for a full review of all health and safety risks.  The Delaware River Basin Commission, which oversees
activities in the gas-rich area known as the Marcellus Shale,
has a pending application from XTO Energy Inc., a unit of  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , to explore in the area, and has refused to produce
a full environmental impact assessment, according to
Schneiderman’s complaint.  New York’s claim that it will be harmed is “conjectural
and hypothetical, and not actual or imminent,” Levy wrote in
the letter. The case also isn’t “ripe” because the agency
hasn’t completed its review, she wrote.  The Delaware River Basin covers 58 percent of the land area
of  New York City ’s watershed west of the  Hudson River , according
to Schneiderman. The region targeted for exploration is
protected by a 50-year-old agreement among the U.S. government,
New York,  New Jersey  and Delaware.  Drinking Water  New York City has spent almost $1.5 billion to protect the
drinking water that flows from the watershed west of the Hudson,
Schneiderman said in his complaint. The money has gone to buying
land to serve as a buffer for pollutants, upgrading sewage
plants and regulating human activity.  More than 2,000 natural gas wells have been drilled in
Pennsylvania, resulting in “hundreds of violations of water
pollution laws,” Schneiderman said in the complaint, citing an
April 19 blowout of a natural-gas well owned by Chesapeake
Energy Corp.  The case is New York v. U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers, 11-
cv-2599, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  