-- 
Aid Groups in Famine-Stricken Somalia Granted Leeway by U.S.

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-08-03T04:01:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-s-eases-restrictions-on-aid-groups-in-famine-stricken-somalia.html
The Obama administration is assuring
aid workers in the Horn of  Africa  that they won’t violate U.S.
laws if some of their food, medicine or money ends up in the
hands of al-Qaeda-linked militants accused of worsening the
region’s famine.  The revised U.S. guidelines don’t lift any restrictions on
the al-Shabab network, which controls southern Somalia and has
been blamed for aggravating the impact of drought-driven famine
by barring international aid workers from the area.  The change responds to criticism by aid groups and other
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) that U.S. rules were making
it harder to get food to starving Somalis. Those regulations
have allowed for the prosecution of U.S.-funded aid groups if
they pay taxes or tolls demanded by al-Shabab on roads in the
area.  “Our fundamental goal is recognizing the significance, the
seriousness of the famine that’s going on right now in the Horn
of Africa and the fact that many of the individuals most
affected are under areas controlled by al-Shabab,” State
Department acting spokesman Mark Toner said today.  “We thought it was important to issue new guidance that
would allow greater flexibility for NGOs and aid workers to get
their assistance into those regions that are controlled by al-
Shabab and to the people who need it,” Toner said.  Some Aid Arriving  There are about 12 million people in need of urgent
assistance in the Horn of Africa, an administration official
said today. He and two other administration officials spoke on
condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak
on the record.  A second official said that around 19,000 metric tons of
food began arriving in  Somalia  this week, the result of planning
that began last fall when early warning systems signaled severe
drought. The biggest challenge, the second official said, was
getting it to people trapped in southern Somalia.  Many large international aid groups have pulled out of
Somalia since 2010 because it is so difficult to operate in the
area, the second official said. Since 2008, fourteen aid workers
have been killed in the areas controlled by al-Shabab.  While aid to the area didn’t stop, it slowed. The official
said the U.S. and other countries are now finding ways to get
assistance to the area, including through airlifts.  The officials said that surveys and United Nations
estimates show there are about 2.85 million people in the area
who are in need. The U.S. has given $80 million in aid for work
inside Somalia, part of a $459 million effort to reach 4.6
million people in distress throughout the Horn of Africa, the
second official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  