-- 
U.S. Prosecutors Say Ex-Frontpoint Hedge Fund Manager to Waive Indictment

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-03T04:48:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-s-prosecutors-say-ex-frontpoint-hedge-fund-manager-to-waive-indictment.html
Former FrontPoint Partners LLC hedge-
 fund manager  Chip Skowron, charged as part of a nationwide
insider-trading crackdown, will waive his right to be indicted,
the government said in a court filing.  Skowron, charged in April with conspiracy,  securities fraud 
and obstruction of justice, was in talks with federal
prosecutors to resolve the case, prosecutors said in court
papers in June. Yesterday, the U.S. attorney’s office in
Manhattan filed a notice of intent to submit a criminal
information in Skowron’s case after he waives indictment.  Defendants regularly waive their right to be indicted when
entering into an agreement in which they plead guilty.  The one-page filing was signed by prosecutors and by James Benjamin Jr., a lawyer for Skowron. Benjamin declined to comment
on whether his client will plead guilty.  In the U.S. federal system, a defendant charged with a
felony has the right to be charged by an indictment, which is a
document approved by a grand jury. A defendant may instead agree
to be charged in a criminal information, which is filed by
prosecutors.  The government claims Skowron obtained nonpublic
information from Yves Benhamou, an expert in hepatitis drugs and
a former adviser for Human Genome Sciences Inc. The tips
concerned hepatitis C drug trials and enabled Greenwich,
Connecticut-based FrontPoint to avoid more than $30 million in
losses, the government said. Benhamou has pleaded guilty.  SEC Suit  In addition to the criminal case, Skowron has been sued by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Debra Freeman in  New York  signed an
order June 13 granting prosecutors a one-month extension to
obtain an indictment against Skowron. Since May, the government
has twice obtained similar extensions in the case, according to
court records.  FrontPoint oversaw $7 billion at the start of November
before Skowron, a co-portfolio manager of its health-care funds,
was tied to claims by prosecutors that the firm got advance
notice on drug-trial results.  FrontPoint’s assets slipped to $4.5 billion by January and
the firm closed its health-care funds.  The case is U.S. v. Skowron, 11-MAG-00997, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in  Manhattan  federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  