-- 
U.S. Economic Weakness Makes Austerity Tougher, Goodhart Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-02T12:10:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-s-economic-weakness-makes-austerity-tougher-goodhart-says.html
The U.S. government may find it hard
to push through austerity measures to reduce the  budget deficit 
as the economic recovery falters, former  Bank of England  policy
maker  Charles Goodhart  said.  “What has really been a worry over the last few weeks has
been that the American economy has proven to be much weaker than
expected, even before any fiscal austerity,” he said in an
interview today. “That’s a concern because you combine an
underlying weak economy with the need to make a start on fiscal
retrenchment and you have a pretty difficulty scenario.”  The  U.S. Senate  will vote today on a debt-limit compromise
after lawmakers agreed over the weekend to raise the nation’s
borrowing ceiling in return for cutting spending by $2.4
trillion or more. The shift from stimulus to austerity coincides
with a slowdown in the recovery. Manufacturing almost stalled in
July, threatening to deprive the recovery of one of its main
drivers.  “The problem that the American political scene is so
extremely divided means that we have simply pushed the problems
yet further down the road without really getting a resolution,”
said Goodhart, speaking after an event in  London  hosted by
Fathom Financial Consulting. “What has happened has simply been
a short-term compromise to delay taking the difficult
decisions.”  A report last week showed that the  U.S. economy  grew at an
annual rate of 1.3 percent in the second quarter following 0.4
percent in the first three months. The jobless rate probably
held at 9.2 percent in July after rising in each of the previous
three months, according to the median of 80 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. The jobless data are due on Aug. 5.  Credit Rating   Political wrangling over raising the debt ceiling led to
concerns the U.S. may lose its top AAA credit rating unless an
agreement was reached by the end of today, when the country
reaches its current borrowing limit. Still,  Standard & Poor’s 
has said the world’s largest economy still faces the risk of a
downgrade over the outlook of its longer-term public finances.  “The problem with the debt ceiling was never one of
solvency, it was always one of liquidity,” Goodhart said. “The
American ability and capacity to pay off their debt remains just
as great as it always was.”  He said the “greater concern” has been the economy’s
weakness, not the debt-ceiling debate.  “A credit rating write down from AAA to AA will have very
little effect,” Goodhart said. “The U.S. treasury market will
still be the most liquid and the safest market in the world. I
don’t think there will be a significant  risk premium  required at
any speed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  