-- 
U.S. Stock-Index Futures Retreat on Concern Growth Is Faltering

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-08-02T11:11:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-s-stock-index-futures-retreat-on-concern-economic-recovery-is-faltering.html
U.S. stock futures slid, indicating
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index may post its longest losing
streak since October 2008, amid concern that growth in the
world’s largest economy is faltering.  ConocoPhillips (COP) , the third-biggest U.S. oil company, fell in
German trading as the price of crude oil declined.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) 
and  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  also retreated in
 Europe . NYSE Euronext lost 2.2 percent in  France  after reporting
lower profit.  S&P 500 futures expiring in September fell 0.4 percent to
1,274 at 7:10 a.m. in  New York , signaling the benchmark gauge
may retreat for a seventh consecutive day. Dow Jones Industrial
Average futures lost 42 points, or 0.4 percent, to 11,998 today.  “There is growing concern that the U.S. may relapse back
into a recession,” said  Mike Lenhoff , chief strategist at
Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd. in  London . “With the numbers
being what they are, it has begun to influence people’s
thoughts. I still think it could be just a soft patch.”  Stocks slid yesterday after data showed U.S. manufacturing
industry expanded at the slowest pace in two years, erasing an
earlier rally after lawmakers agreed to raise the debt ceiling.  The selloff brought the  S&P 500  momentarily below its
average price of the last 200 days of about 1,285. A drop below
the 200-day moving average might trigger further losses,
according to analysts who study charts to make forecasts.  Consumer Spending  An economic report today, due at 8:30 a.m. New York time,
may show U.S. consumer spending stalled in June. Purchases rose
0.1 percent last month after being little changed in May,
according to the median economist estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. Personal incomes probably rose 0.2 percent, the smallest
gain in seven months.  Separately, congressional leaders have voiced confidence
the Senate will vote today to ratify a U.S. debt-limit
compromise that will avert a default. The House voted 269-161
yesterday to approve the measure, which raises the federal debt
ceiling far enough to fund the government until 2013.  Both S&P and Moody’s Investors Service are still weighing
whether to cut the U.S. credit rating. S&P said in July that the
impasse boosted to 50 percent the chance that it will downgrade
the U.S. from AAA within three months.  “The markets are discounting a significant amount of
negative news,” said  Bob Parker , a London-based senior adviser
at Credit Suisse Asset Management, on Bloomberg Television.
“The downside on equities is very limited. Investor cash
positions are very high, corporate cash positions are very high
and valuations are cheap.”  Conoco, Alcoa  Conoco slid 0.8 percent to $71.44 as crude oil declined for
a third day, its longest losing streak since May.  Separately, Conoco said it aims to triple the value of its
assets in  Australia  in the next decade. The company approved the
first stage of a $20 billion liquefied natural gas project in
the Pacific nation last week.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, lost 1 percent
to $14.60 in  Germany , while Freeport, the world’s biggest
publicly traded copper producer, declined 0.8 percent to $52.75.  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the U.S. exchange company planning to be
bought by Deutsche Boerse AG, retreated 2.2 percent to $32.29 in
Paris. The company reported a 16 percent decline in second-
quarter profit to $154 million as revenue from European
derivatives and U.S. equity trading decreased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  