-- 
U.S. Credit Rating Affirmed as Moody’s, Fitch Warn of Downgrade on Deficit

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-03T02:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-s-aaa-rating-faces-moody-s-downgrade-on-debt-economic-slowdown-concern.html
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings affirmed their AAA credit ratings for the U.S. while
warning that downgrades were possible if lawmakers fail to enact
debt reduction measures and the economy weakens.  The outlook for the U.S. grade is now negative, Moody’s
said in a statement yesterday after President  Barack Obama 
signed into law a plan to lift the nation’s borrowing limit and
cut spending following months of wrangling between Democratic
leaders and Republican lawmakers.  The compromise “is a positive step toward reducing the
future path of the deficit and the debt levels,”  Steven Hess ,
senior credit officer at Moody’s in New York, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “We do think more needs to be
done to ensure a reduction in the debt to GDP ratio, for
example, going forward.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimated that a downgrade would raise
U.S. borrowing costs by $100 billion a year, while Obama said it
could hurt the broader economy by increasing consumer borrowing
costs tied to Treasury rates. The ratio of general government
debt, including state and local governments, to gross domestic
product is projected to climb to 100 percent in 2012, the most
of any AAA-ranked country, Fitch said in April.  “A downgrade is a sign that Congress is failing to address
a real fiscal issue,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in an
interview before the announcements.  ‘Tough Choices’  A decision on the rating may be made within two years, or
“considerably sooner,” according to Moody’s Hess.  Fitch’s  David Riley  said that while the rating may be cut
in the medium term, its risks in the near-term “are not high.”
The company expects to complete the ratings review by this
month.  “Although the agreement is a good first step in adjusting
the fiscal challenges that the U.S. faces, it is just a first
step,” Riley, Fitch’s London-based head of sovereign ratings,
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S. government on notice on
April 18 that it risks losing its AAA rating unless lawmakers
agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the
national debt. S&P indicated last week that anything less than
$4 trillion in cuts would jeopardize the grade.  S&P, which has ranked the U.S. AAA since 1941, rates 18
sovereign issuers as AAA, including  Canada ,  Germany  and
 Singapore , according to Bloomberg data. Spain and  Japan  are
among those ranked at the AA level by ratings company.  Debt-Limit Compromise  So far the threat of losing a AAA rating has been
overwhelmed by concerns about a continued slowdown in the  U.S.
economy , supporting demand for Treasuries. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note fell reached 2.59 percent in Tokyo
trading today, extending declines to the lowest since November.
The yield is below the 4.05 percent average in the past decade.  A gain in Treasury yields of 50 basis points would reduce
U.S. economic growth by about 0.4 percentage points, JPMorgan
said in a report, citing Federal Reserve research and data.  Obama signed the debt-limit compromise on the day the
Treasury had warned the nation’s borrowing authority would
expire, ending a months-long debate that reinforced partisan
divisions over federal spending.  Debt-to-GDP  The Senate voted 74-26 for the measure, which raises the
nation’s debt ceiling until 2013 and threatens automatic
spending cuts to enforce $2.4 trillion in spending reductions
over the next 10 years. The House passed the plan Aug. 1.  “While the combination of the congressional committee
process and automatic triggers provides a mechanism to induce
fiscal discipline, this framework is untested,” Moody’s said in
its statement. Moody’s said its baseline scenario assumes that
fiscal discipline is maintained in 2012.  “Further measures will likely be required to ensure that
the long-run fiscal trajectory remains compatible with a Aaa
rating,” Moody’s said. The credit rater expects a stabilization
of the federal government’s debt-to-gross domestic product ratio
not too far above its projected 2012 level of 73 percent by the
middle of the decade, followed by a decline.  Recent downward revisions of growth rates and the very slow
expansion recorded in the first half of 2011 call into question
the strength of potential growth in the next year or two,
Moody’s said. Moody’s, which has rated the U.S. Aaa since 1917,
put the U.S. under review for a downgrade on July 13 for the
first time since 1996.  Overseas Lenders  Still, U.S. bonds and the dollar’s strength have signaled
increased demand for the assets of the world’s largest economy
even as prospects of a downgrade rose. Treasury yields average
about 0.70 percentage point less than the rest of the world’s
sovereign debt markets, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
show. The difference has expanded from 0.15 percentage point in
January.  Investors from  China  to the U.K. are lending money to the
U.S. government for a decade at the lowest rates of the year.
For many of them, there are few alternatives outside the U.S.,
no matter what its  credit rating .  The dollar represents 60.7 percent of the world’s currency
reserves, compared with the 26.6 percent for the euro, which has
the next biggest portion, according to the  International
Monetary Fund  in  Washington .  “Regardless of the rating, Treasuries are going to be seen
as the safe haven,” said Matthew Freund, a senior vice
president at USAA Investment Management Co. in  San Antonio ,
where he helps oversee about $50 billion in mutual fund assets.
“The U.S. remains one of the strongest, most dynamic economies
in the world.”  China’s central bank will “closely” monitor U.S. efforts
to tackle its debt, Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in a statement
today, reaffirming that his nation will diversify its foreign-
exchange reserves. China’s Dagong Global Credit Rating Co. cut
its credit rating for the U.S. to A from A+ with a negative
outlook, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  