-- 
Mubarak Hears Conspiracy Charges From Stretcher in a Cairo Courtroom Cage

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-08-03T15:59:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/mubarak-on-trial-as-egypt-s-search-for-justice-unites-new-political-rivals.html
Egypt’s ex-President  Hosni Mubarak 
was wheeled into court in a hospital bed on the first day of his
trial for conspiring to kill some of the protesters who drove
him from office in February.  The former ruler appeared in a caged enclosure in the Cairo
court alongside his two sons, Alaa and Gamal, and former
Interior Minister Habib el-Adli, and pleaded not guilty. The
defendants wore prison suits. For most Egyptians, it was the
first sighting of the man who ruled them for three decades since
he was forced to quit on Feb. 11 after a mass uprising. The
trial was adjourned until Aug. 15, and Mubarak will be kept in a
hospital on the outskirts of Cairo until then.  “The era of pharaohs has ended,” said Khaled el-Sayed, a
member of the Alliance of the Youths’ Revolution, which helped
organize protests against Mubarak. “This trial is a turning
point in the history of  Egypt  and the whole Arab world. It
enshrines rules for the new Egypt that we dream of, and that
many martyrs have sacrificed their lives for.”  Prosecuting Mubarak is a key demand of the demonstrators
who have held sit-ins in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  and elsewhere.
From Islamists to secular activists, most opposition groups
agree that Mubarak must be held accountable for Egypt’s
autocratic past, even while they differ on what its future under
democracy should look like.  ‘I Deny Them’  Mubarak, a key ally of the U.S. and Israel while in power,
was also charged with abusing his office to acquire property for
himself and his sons, and selling natural gas to  Israel  at
below-market prices. “These accusations, I deny them all,” the
recumbent 83-year-old said when handed a microphone, speaking
for the first time after two hours in court.  The trial comes as Egypt is struggling to repair its
economy and establish rules for its first post-Mubarak election.
Opposition movements across the region are fighting to emulate
the success of the uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia, and to get
rid of autocratic rulers.  Egypt’s benchmark EGX30 stock index dropped 0.9 percent at
the 1:30 p.m. close in Cairo, extending its decline this year to
more than 30 percent. Yields on the dollar bond maturing in 2020
rose 4 basis points to 5.44 percent.  ‘Killed My Son’  Outside the court, supporters and opponents of Mubarak
hurled stones at each other and police charged toward the crowd
to separate the groups. Some Mubarak loyalists broke down in
tears in front of a giant screen broadcasting from inside the
court. Other demonstrators demanded his execution.  “I had to come here today,” said Raqya Mohammed, holding
a photo of her son, who died during the protests. “It was Hosni
who killed my son. No one could have done anything without his
orders.”  Mubarak’s sons were also charged with corruption. His
lawyer, Farid elDib, today asked that Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, Mubarak’s longtime defense minister who heads
the military council now running the country, be brought before
the court to testify.  The trial is taking place in a makeshift courtroom in a
police academy once named after Mubarak, and was shown live on
state television.  ‘Retire in Dignity’  The former ruler has been in custody in a hospital in the
Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheik. He was brought to court by
helicopter. In April, state television said Mubarak was
hospitalized after having a heart attack while being questioned.
His health was later cited as a reason he could not be
transferred to a Cairo prison.  At least 846 people were killed during the revolt against
Mubarak, sparked by poor  living conditions , political repression
and complaints about corruption and police abuses.  The prosecution of Mubarak is a result of popular pressure
on the generals who have been running Egypt since his ouster,
said Elijah Zarwan, a senior analyst in Cairo for the
 International Crisis Group . “If they could, they would still
like to let him retire in dignity, if it weren’t for the
protests and the public calls,” he said. Army officials say the
case is a matter for the judiciary.  The uprising against Mubarak hurt Egypt’s economy, which
shrank an annual 4.2 percent in the first quarter as tourists
stayed away and factory output was cut by strikes.  ‘Very Divided Country’  Transition to democracy is opening rifts among Egyptians
who united to drive Mubarak out. The ruling military council
says it will hand over power after parliamentary elections,
expected later this year, and a subsequent presidential vote.
Opposition groups have sparred over the timing of elections and
the process of writing a new constitution.  A July 29 rally in Cairo called as a show of unity between
political factions was dominated by Islamists, who were
suppressed under Mubarak, and instead exposed divisions as many
secular groups withdrew.  “There’s less room for optimism than there was two or
three months ago,” said  Shadi Hamid , director of research at
the  Brookings Doha Center  in Qatar. “This has become a very
divided country.”  At least over Mubarak’s trial, there is broad agreement,
though not unanimity. “I am here because I refuse to let the
man who has been the symbol of my country get humiliated,” said
Tawfeeq Haitham, 20, one of the pro-Mubarak protesters outside
the court. His head bandaged after an injury during the clashes,
he said: “This man was protecting us from such thuggery.”  Fifty-three people were hurt in the fighting, the state-run
Middle East News Agency said.  ‘Held Accountable’  It’s almost unprecedented for an Arab nation to put a
former leader in the dock for past crimes.  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, who fled to  Saudi Arabia  a month before
Mubarak’s ouster, has been convicted of multiple offenses in
absentia.  Saddam Hussein , who was executed in 2006, was tried in
a court set up by occupying U.S. forces.  The case may embolden protesters in other Arab countries,
Hamid said.  Syrian demonstrators took to the streets in mid-March, and
President Bashar al-Assad’s security forces have since killed
more than 2,000 people. The conflict in  Libya  between Muammar al-Qaddafi and rebels against his rule began a month earlier,
and Bahrain’s rulers ordered a crackdown in which more than 30
people were killed and hundreds detained.  “Mubarak’s trial gives us hope,” Atem Shembesh, a high-
school student in Benghazi, the stronghold of Libya’s rebels,
said by phone. “Who would have thought before the Egyptian
revolution that this would happen to Mubarak. God willing, it’s
going to be the same for Qaddafi, or worse.”  “There’s a powerful symbolic value,” Hamid said. “Here’s
one of the longest-serving autocrats in modern history, and he’s
in a cage, and he will be held accountable for his crimes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 