-- 
Uganda’s Central Bank Raises Benchmark Interest Rate to 14% to Curb Prices

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-08-02T08:50:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/uganda-s-central-bank-raises-benchmark-interest-rate-to-14-to-curb-prices.html
Uganda ’s central bank raised its
benchmark interest rate by 1 percentage point, one month after
introducing the rate, to help curb inflation and bolster the
currency.  The Bank of Uganda increased the rate to 14 percent,
Governor Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile told reporters today in the
capital, Kampala.  Rising food costs due to drought and higher  oil prices 
boosted inflation in East Africa’s third-biggest economy to an
18-month high of 18.7 percent in July, the statistics office
said on July 29. Inflation may ease to between 8 percent and 10
percent by July 2012 and reach 5 percent by the middle of 2013,
the governor said today.  The rate increase aims to “curb the growth of bank credit
in the economy, which expanded very rapidly in the 2010-11
fiscal year, and to provide some support for the nominal
 exchange rate , which affects domestic prices of imported
goods,” Tumusiime-Mutebile said.  The shilling has slumped 15 percent against the dollar in
the past six months, trading as low as 2,650 today.  “If the upside risks to inflation increase in the coming
months, monetary policy will be tightened further,” the
governor said. Inflation is “severe” and the central bank will
do “whatever it takes” to curb price pressures, he said.  The central bank’s target is to bring the core inflation
rate, which excludes food, energy and water costs, down to 5
percent. The rate was at 15.6 percent in July.  Higher  interest rates  won’t derail economic growth in
Uganda, which won’t fall below 5 percent in the year through
June 2012, the central bank said. Uganda, which will become
 Africa ’s newest oil producer next year, is forecast by the
government to expand 6.6 percent in the current fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  