-- 
Barrick Says Gold to Remain High on China, India Inflation

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-08-02T04:27:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/lumwana-mine-to-produce-300-mln-pounds-a-year-halverson-says.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s
largest producer, said prices will remain high as central banks
move excessive foreign-exchange holdings to bullion and
inflation in  China  and India boost the lure of the metal.  “Gold is well-supported at current levels,” Gary
Halverson, Barrick’s regional Australia-Pacific president, said
today at a conference in Kalgoorlie,  Western Australia . The
Toronto-based company expects to maintain profit margins of more
than $1,000 an ounce this year, he said.  Gold rose to a record last month on concern the U.S. and
 Europe  would struggle to contain their debt burdens. Inflation
in China hit a three-year high last month, while India’s
benchmark wholesale-price index has remained above 9 percent for
seven straight months. Central banks, the world’s biggest
holders of bullion, about doubled their purchases in the first
five months of this year, according to the World Gold Council.  Immediate-delivery gold, which reached a record $1,632.80
an ounce on July 29, was little changed at $1,619.60 at 9:48 a.m.
in  Singapore . Natixis Commodity Markets Ltd. raised its 2012
estimate to $1,300 from $1,140 an ounce on July 28.  Barrick, which completed the C$7.4 billion ($7.7 billion)
takeover of copper producer Equinox Minerals Ltd. last month,
expects the Lumwana mine in Zambia to produce about 300 million
pounds of copper annually, Halverson said.  Low Rate  “The opportunity to pick up Equinox was unique for us as
we had access to very low interest” funding for the acquisition,
Halverson said. Debt funding for Equinox was “sub-3 percent,”
he told reporters.  Barrick will continue to focus on gold production, which
makes up 80 percent of its revenue, Halverson said. Copper
accounts for about 19 percent, he said.  The company has no plans to sell the Jabal Sayid copper
project in  Saudi Arabia , part of the Equinox acquisition, that
is due to produce 100 to 130 million pounds of copper from the
second quarter, Halverson said.  Barrick operates the Super Pit in Western Australia,
producing as much as 850,000 ounces of gold a year, with venture
partner Newmont Mining Corp. Barrick owns five mines in the
nation, as well as the Porgera venture in  Papua New Guinea .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  