-- 
Hungary Debt Sale Fails as Forint Weakens

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-08-02T15:41:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/hungary-s-forint-weakens-to-franc-euro-on-u-s-growth-slowdown.html
Hungarian stocks dropped to an eight-
month low, bonds fell and a government debt sale missed the
target as the forint reaching a record low versus the Swiss
franc threatens foreign-currency loans and economic growth.  The BUX gauge of companies tumbled 1.5 percent to 20,811.31
at its 5:06 close in Budapest, the lowest since Nov. 30. Bonds
slid, lifting the yield on June 2022 notes denominated in the
forint nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 7.616
percent, the highest since Jan. 24 on a closing basis.  Global stocks fell and the franc gained to a record versus
the euro as concern mounted the U.S. economic slowdown will
derail the global recovery.  Hungary ’s Purchasing Managers Index
for manufacturing dropped to 52.2 in July, the lowest in 10
months, a government report yesterday showed.  “The PMI data suggests that the key source of growth is
waning quickly while new highs on forint-franc serve only to
weaken domestic demand further,” Dmitry Veselov, an analyst at
UniCredit SpA in  London , wrote in a report today.  A weaker forint hurts homeowners who bought property with
foreign-currency loans as they pay more in local terms. Almost
two-thirds of Hungarian household mortgages were denominated in
foreign currencies, most of them in francs, according to central
bank data as of June 30. The forint slid as much as 2.2 percent
to 247.259 per franc, its weakest since Bloomberg started
tracking the data in 1993, and last traded down 2.1 percent at
247.017. Against the euro, it lost 0.7 percent to 270.78.  ‘Global Fears’  Investors bought  U.S. Treasuries  and the Swiss currency as
a haven after a U.S. report showed personal spending in the
world’s largest economy unexpectedly fell. A report yesterday
showed American manufacturing sank to a two-year low. Attention
has shifted to weakening economic data as the  U.S. Senate 
prepared to vote on raising the debt limit to prevent a default.  Hungary, which received an international bailout in 2008
and is the most indebted country in the European Union’s east,
sold fewer three-month Treasury bills today than the target as
demand from investors declined and borrowing costs rose.  “Global fears regarding the U.S. growth outlook and the
steep weakening of the forint versus the Swiss franc were the
main culprits behind the drop in demand at the auction,” Sandor Jobbagy, an analyst at CIB Bank Zrt. in Budapest, said by phone.  The government raised 27 billion forint ($143 million), 13
billion forint less than planned, auction data published by the
debt management agency on Bloomberg show. Bids fell to 46.7
billion forint from 125.8 billion forint at a sale a week ago.
The average yield rose to 5.72 percent from 5.67 percent.  “The auction results were somewhat of a surprise for us,”
Attila Eszes, a bond trader at K&H Bank in Budapest, said in a
phone interview. “The three-month bills are generally viewed as
a safe bet in the market, especially as the central bank is
unlikely to raise rates any time soon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  