-- 
Wall Street Bankers Face Bond Disclosure Rules to Protect States, Cities

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-08-03T14:57:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/muni-rulemaking-board-plans-to-require-increased-risk-disclosure.html
Wall Street banks setting up bond
sales for U.S. states and cities would be required to tell
public officials about potentially costly risks and conflicts of
interest in the deals under proposed rules.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which writes
regulations for banks that work in the tax-exempt  debt market ,
said yesterday that it asked the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to approve the proposed rules placing greater
disclosure requirements on bond underwriters.  The move is part of an effort to reshape regulation of the
$2.9 trillion municipal-securities market after the 2008
financial crisis. Since then, state and local taxpayers have
been stuck with billions of dollars in unexpected costs because
complex bond deals, pitched as money-savers, backfired.  “A lot of obligations are placed on underwriters that
weren’t there,” said David Lipton, a former rulemaking board
member who teaches law at  Catholic University  of America in
Washington. “That’s good for the investors, and that’s good for
the industry.”  The rules would require banks to disclose all “material
risks” of bond financings, including the floating-rate
securities coupled with interest-rate swaps that once
flourished. Banks also would have to disclose potential
conflicts of interest, including  incentives they have to
recommend such transactions, payments they may get from other
parties in the deal and whether banks are betting on derivative
contracts that only pay off if the borrower defaults.  Private Placements  The rulemaking board today told financial advisers that
they may face the regulations placed on broker-dealers if they
arrange private placements of securities sometimes characterized
as bank loans, a growing niche in the public-finance market.
 Standard & Poor’s  estimates that as much as 30 percent of
municipal borrowing this year may be drawn directly from banks.  The board’s added task to protect municipalities from
financial malfeasance was included in the Dodd-Frank financial
overhaul law signed last year after the 2008 financial crisis
revealed cracks in oversight of the market.  Before Dodd-Frank, regulators provided no supervision of
interest-rate swaps that proved costly to state and local
governments or the financial advisers who recommended the deals.  Protecting Borrowers  “This proposal is a groundbreaking effort in ensuring the
interests of state- and local-government bond issuers are
further protected in their transactions with underwriters,”
Lynnette Kelly Hotchkiss, executive director of the board, known
as the MSRB, said in a statement yesterday.  Rules aimed at protecting municipalities make sense, given
that investors are also potentially hurt when financings
unravel, Lipton said. In Jefferson County,  Alabama , officials
are considering whether to declare bankruptcy because of bond
deals laden with swaps that unraveled.  “If the issuers are torpedoed by an underwriter’s failed
scheme, the investors are going to be torpedoed,” Lipton said.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission is drafting
rules that would force banks that pitch interest-rate derivative
deals to also disclose details about the risks, act in the
customers’ best interests, and ensure that they have the
financial wherewithal to handle the potential impacts of wrong-
way bets. The MSRB and the SEC are putting in place regulations
for financial advisers.  Swap Market  As many as $300 billion worth of interest-rate swaps were
sold to municipalities a year before the financial crisis,
according to an estimate from the rulemaking board.  The swaps were paired with floating-rate bonds such as
auction-rate securities, whose interest rates climbed when banks
began hoarding cash and stopped propping up that market. The
swaps often failed to produce the protection from rate changes
that they were designed to provide and required penalty fees to
break.  The proposal also would make explicit that underwriters
must pay a fair and reasonable price for bonds they buy directly
from localities. That step would potentially prevent banks from
reaping outsized profits or steering quick gains to favored
clients by providing them with bonds that were underpriced in
the initial offering.  “Dodd-Frank explicitly requires the MSRB to protect
municipal entities,” Hotchkiss said. “This gives us the
ability to establish detailed requirements for underwriters and
make important information more readily available to state and
local governments that sell bonds.”  The rulemaking board’s proposal is subject to the SEC’s
review and approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  