-- 
Munich Re, Swiss Re on Watch for Hurricane Season After Record Quake Hits

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-08-02T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/munich-re-swiss-re-on-watch-for-hurricane-season-after-record-quake-hits.html
Munich Re  and Swiss Re Ltd., the
world’s biggest reinsurers, are awaiting this month’s peak of
the U.S. hurricane season after record first-half catastrophe
losses depleted buffers and threatened shareholder payouts.  Munich Re may tomorrow report a drop in second-quarter
profit to 661 million euros ($939 million), from 709 million
euros a year earlier, according to the average estimate of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Smaller rival Swiss Re may post
a 39 percent decline to $495 million, according to 11 analysts.  Natural disasters, including the earthquake and tsunami in
Japan, cost insurers and reinsurers about $70 billion in the
first half, according to  estimates  by  Guy Carpenter  & Co., the
reinsurance brokerage of Marsh & McLennan Cos. Claims from the
U.S.  hurricane season  could endanger Munich Re’s dividend policy
and delay Swiss Re’s bid to regain the AA credit rating that
 Standard & Poor’s  cut in 2009.  “A heavy season with at least one significant landfall
could mitigate growth or even result in an impairment of capital
for the remainder of 2011,” according to a  report  by Guy
Carpenter. “A light hurricane season with no significant
landfalls could enable reinsurance capital to resume growth.”  Catastrophe claims usually increase in the second half of
the year with the hurricane season in the North Atlantic and
typhoons in the northwest Pacific. Researchers at  Colorado State
University  forecast a “well-above-average” Atlantic June-
through-November hurricane season.  Tornado Losses  Munich Re also expects losses of as much as 200 million
euros from U.S. tornadoes in the second quarter, while Zurich-
based Swiss Re hasn’t announced any “material losses” so far.  Munich Re scrapped a share buyback and its full-year profit
target in March after the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan 
resulted in the company’s first quarterly loss since 2003. The
first quarter’s natural disaster claims were almost triple its
annual budget, the Munich-based reinsurer said.  Swiss Re estimated first-quarter disaster losses of about
$2.3 billion compared with 2.7 billion euros at Munich Re. Large
natural catastrophes claims can cut into excess capital, which
serves as a buffer against unexpected losses and supports
reinsurers’ credit ratings.  “The first half’s natural catastrophes forced Munich Re to
put its share buyback on hold and have eaten into Swiss Re’s
excess capital, possibly delaying their return to an AA
rating,” said  Christian Muschick , a Frankfurt-based analyst
with Silvia Quandt Research.  Both reinsurers have limited their hurricane exposures,
making a “major capital shortage” unlikely, even after a
costly hurricane season, said Muschick.  Maintaining Dividend  Munich Re Chief Financial Officer Joerg Schneider said in
May that the company “would very much like to keep the dividend
on the existing level.” Munich Re, which hasn’t cut its
dividend since 1969, paid out 1.1 billion euros last year.  “Only the most severe large loss scenario could imperil
the dividend,” Morgan Stanley’s London-based analysts including
Jon Hocking wrote in a note to clients on July 29. “They have
many levers to pull in a stressed scenario.”  In the record 2005 U.S. hurricane season, Munich Re raised
its dividend by 55 percent, helped by the proceeds of asset
sales. It also kept the payout stable amid the financial crisis
in 2008. The company is trying to lure investors including
BlackRock Inc. and  Warren Buffett  with stable payouts.  Munich Re spokeswoman Johanna Weber declined to comment on
the reinsurer’s capital position ahead of tomorrow’s second-
quarter earnings report.  Regaining Rating  “While the third quarter can produce a reinsurer’s biggest
claims, only the capital position at the end of the year will be
decisive for the dividend and that will depend on catastrophe
claims as well as on the size of investment writedowns,” said
 Roland Pfaender , an analyst with Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  Writedowns on investments, dividend payouts as well as
higher than expected catastrophe claims can reduce a reinsurer’s
capital position, while retained earnings as well as sales of
new shares can counter the effect.  Swiss Re’s capital exceeded S&P’s AA requirements by more
than $10 billion at the end of last year. The Zurich-based
reinsurer, which posted a first-quarter net loss of $665
million, is bidding to regain the AA credit rating after
repaying a 3 billion Swiss franc ($3.9 billion) injection by
Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  “This capital will be either put at work into an improving
reinsurance market or next year they would look at potential
buybacks,” said Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-based analyst with
Vontobel Holding AG.  Excess capital at Swiss Re, which almost tripled its
dividend last year, may have declined to $7.5 billion, according
to the mean estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  