-- 
Munich Re Braves Drilling Risk to Insure German Geothermal Plant

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-08-02T16:47:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/munich-re-braves-drilling-risk-to-insure-german-geothermal-plant.html
Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, agreed to insure a 60-million euro ($86 million)
geothermal power plant in Bavaria that’s poised to begin
drilling operations in September.  The insurance company is one of a few willing to assume the
exploration risk of drilling deep into the ground to find
pockets of hot water that can be harnessed to generate power,
Thomas Trauttmansdorff, a managing partner at Grunwald Equity
Management GmbH, which manages the investment funds collectively
known as  Grunwald Equity , said by phone.  Grunwald Equity Geothermie GmbH, one of those entities, is
developing the project in Traunreut, Upper Bavaria, as  Germany 
shifts its energy mix away from atomic power to renewable
sources following the nuclear disaster in  Japan .  Insuring the projects that take five to six years to build
and typically use steam from deep underground to turn turbines
is expensive because the market has to develop, Trauttmansdorff
said.  “The drilling is very expensive, and at the end, even if
we have some studies about what we can expect, there is still a
risk you don’t find enough water,” he said. In that case, the
investment spent on drilling is lost.  Munich Re is insuring the drilling part of the project that
could supply up to 5 megawatts of electrical and 12 megawatts of
thermal in addition to district-heating power from two wells
about 5,000 meters (16,400 feet) deep. It’s the third geothermal
project it has insured.  Drilling absorbs about half of the 60 million-euro project
cost, Trauttmansdorff said, declining to disclose the insurance
price. Finance for the project should be secured before drilling
begins in September, he said.  “We’ve had lots of commitment from investors to finance
the equity,” he said.  Grunwald Equity Geothermie, through its unit Geothermische
Kraftwerksgesellschaft Traunreut mbH, is planning five
geothermal power plants in all, according to Trauttmansdorff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  