-- 
Uranium Spot Prices Increase as Investors Enter Market, Ux Says

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-08-02T03:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/uranium-spot-prices-increase-as-investors-enter-market-ux-says.html
Uranium spot prices rose 1.5 percent,
snapping several months of price declines, as  Japan ’s Fukushima
crisis brought new investors into the market, boosting demand,
 Ux Consulting Co.  said.  Uranium-oxide concentrate for immediate delivery was at
$52.25 a pound in the seven days through yesterday compared with
$51.50 the previous week, Ux said in an e-mailed report today.
That’s based on the most competitive offer tracked by the
Roswell, Georgia-based company.  The spot price for the nuclear fuel has declined 21 percent
since the week before a March 11 earthquake and tsunami damaged
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station. The
decline in prices is now attracting investors, Ux said.  “The spot market has rebounded somewhat as new buyers have
appeared to take advantage of lower prices, clearing some
material from the market,” Ux said. “While deals have taken
place, they are generally for relatively small quantities, so it
appears that neither buyers nor sellers are willing to commit
large amounts at these  price levels .”  Nuclear-power utilities buy the bulk of their uranium from
mining companies, with the contracts mostly extending beyond 12
months. The market for immediate delivery, or  spot market ,
allows trading for delivery within a year and includes buying
and selling by financial investors.  Uranium prices, which rose to a record $136 a pound in 2007
before falling to about $40, started to rebound last year as
 China  increased the use of nuclear power to curb emissions from
burning coal. Even after Fukushima, the worst atomic accident
since Chernobyl 25 years ago, nations such as China and  India 
have recommitted to a nuclear energy future, which could bolster
prices of the nuclear fuel in the longer term.  “Spot uranium market activity has remained at moderate
levels over the past several weeks despite a number of
participants being on travel or holiday,” Ux said. “To a large
extent, the market appears to be stuck in a summer season, post-
Fukushima funk. There has not been a lot of positive news to
energize demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  