-- 
Usiminas Profit Drops 73% as Steel Output Falls, Sales Fall

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-08-02T14:14:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/usiminas-profit-drops-73-as-steel-production-falls-sales-drop.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA (USIM5) , Brazil’s second-largest steelmaker by output, said second-
quarter profit slumped 73 percent as production and sales fell.  Net income dropped to 111.6 million reais ($71.3 million)
from a revised 406.7 million reais a year earlier, the  Belo
Horizonte , Brazil-based company said today in a regulatory
filing. The company was expected to post profit of 172.4 million
reais on an adjusted basis, according to the average of five
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Crude-steel output declined 4.1 percent to 1.86 million
metric tons during the quarter, said Usiminas, as the company is
known. Net sales dropped 16 percent to 3.03 billion reais, while
the company’s cost of goods sold declined 5.4 percent.  “The company managed to keep its margins relatively stable
even with lower steel sales volume,” Marco Saravalle, an equity
analyst at Coinvalores Corretora de Valores in  Sao Paulo , said
today in a note to investors. “With the domestic market
increasing its share of total volume sold, there is an
improvement in the sales mix,” he wrote.  Brazilian steel stocks are trading close to their lowest in
at least 28 months on rising raw-material costs, a stronger real
and lower prices. Domestic sales of the alloy used in
construction, cars and household goods fell 8.2 percent in June
from a year earlier,  according  to the Brazil Steel Institute.  Business Environment  “The business environment for the flat steel sector
remains deteriorated by the high inventories of the local
market, by raw material price hikes and by the constant threat
of imports” the company said today in the statement.  Usiminas rose 34 centavos, or 3.1 percent, to 11.16 reais
in Sao Paulo trading at 9:45 a.m. New York time, after jumping
earlier as much as 3.7 percent, the most since July 21. Before
today, the stock declined about 44 percent this year, more than
the 16 percent drop for  Brazil ’s benchmark Bovespa index.  The company invested 525 million reais in the second-
quarter, 31 percent less than last year, it said in today’s
statement.  Usiminas also today reduced its capital spending plan for
this year to 2.6 billion reais, from an earlier investment of
2.8 billion reais.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  