-- 
Veolia’s Post-Proglio Era May Spell Cap on ‘Risky’ International Expansion

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-08-03T13:34:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/veolia-s-post-proglio-era-may-spell-cap-on-risky-international-expansion.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the world’s
largest water company, may turn the page this week on a legacy
of expansion under former Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio .  The Paris-based company, which supplies water to more than
100 million people worldwide and handles about 63 million tons
of waste, said last week that weaker business in Italy, the U.S.
and North Africa is forcing it to review assets. It’s taking 800
million euros ($1.14 billion) in writedowns in the first half
and said profit won’t grow this year.  For Chairman and CEO Antoine Frerot, 53, who took over from
Proglio seven months ago, the biggest challenge will be to undo
some of Veolia’s expansion that took it to 77 countries from
 Argentina  to  South Korea . He may cut back on the payout to
shareholders this year and unveil plans tomorrow to accelerate
cost cutting and assets sales.  “This may be an attempt to clean up the company and get a
fresh start,” Jean Farah, an analyst at RBS Securities Inc. in
 London , said by telephone. “Frerot is more conservative and
less inclined to take risks than Proglio.”  Proglio, 62, relinquished the role of Veolia CEO in
November 2009 when he moved to head state-controlled Electricite
de France SA, the world’s biggest nuclear power generator. He
remained Veolia’s chairman for another year and still sits on
the board.  Proglio, who spent most of his career at Veolia, took the
utility on a 4 billion-euro acquisitions spree in 2007 and 2008,
chalking up debt as it bought energy, waste and recycling
businesses, including German and Italian trash handlers, both of
which were written down in 2009.  Deeper Malaise  The cost of insuring Veolia’s debt has soared to the
highest level in more than two years, with credit-default swaps
climbing to 126 basis points from 86 last month, according to
CMA. The contracts are up from 105 basis points July 28, the day
before the company’s profit warning. Veolia’s shares fell to
their lowest level in more than eight years.  The utility sold 2.5 billion euros in assets in 2009 and
2010 and set a target for such disposals of 4 billion euros
between 2011 and 2013. More than 1 billion euros worth of assets
were sold in the first-half of this year.  Veolia and its smaller competitor, Suez Environnement SA,
saw demand for waste collection and treatment slump in 2009 as
carmakers and steel producers closed factories to survive the
economic slowdown. Prices for recycled materials also slid. The
latest turmoil at Veolia has raised questions about whether the
company’s troubles reflect a deeper malaise.  Renewal Burden  “We think it’s over-optimistic to consider these issues as
only one-offs,” Exane BNP Paribas analysts including Yohann Terry wrote in a July 29 note, forecasting more assets sales and
cost-cutting at the utility. “It illustrates the high risk of
certain contracts in the environment sector.”  Asset impairments and write downs in second-quarter
accounts stem from results in southern  Europe , especially Italy,
and North Africa as well as the U.S., notably in the
environmental services division, according to a July 29
 statement  from Veolia.  “Veolia is burdened by the renewal of some of its major
concession contracts, which are now delivering lower earnings,”
Peter Wirtz, an analyst with WestLB Equity Markets in
Dusseldorf,  Germany , wrote on Aug. 1. The water company reported
a drop in operating earnings at the water division in the first
quarter and may have unprofitable contracts at the Marine
Services Division in the U.S., he noted.  ‘Not Big Deal’  That business has a fleet of vessels for offshore oil and
gas customers. Veolia’s volume of treated waste was flat in the
U.S. in the first quarter because of a drop in waste generated
by  Gulf of Mexico  drilling companies, Chief Financial Officer
Pierre-Francois Riolacci said on a May 5 conference call, adding
that at the group level “it’s not such a big deal.”  At that time, Riolacci forecast overall adjusted operating
income growth “in the range of close” to 8 percent and an
improvement in net income. He kept full-year targets of an
increase in 2011 net income and a 4 percent to 8 percent rise in
adjusted operating income.  Last week, Veolia said it expects adjusted operating
income, not including Veolia Transdev, to “decline slightly”
from last year at constant exchange rates. Veolia Transdev
provides public transportation in 28 countries.  “The impairment wasn’t expected,” RBS’s Farah said. “Now
there is a negative sentiment because the company seemed to
believe that guidance was not at risk only three months ago.
It’s a real disappointment.”  Suez Environnement  Veolia spokeswoman Marie-Claire Camus said more details
will be given tomorrow on the reasons for the writedowns.  Meanwhile, rival Suez Environnement today reported an 18
percent increase in first-half profit led by higher waste-
treatment volumes and kept financial targets.  Veolia “made provisions on waste and energy in  Italy ,
where we aren’t, in  Morocco  apparently on transport, where we
aren’t either, as well as in the U.S. in waste where we
aren’t,” Suez Environnement CFO Jean-Marc Boursier said in an
interview. “Our business models are different. While the trade
is the same, the way we apply our strategies is different.”  An indication of the nature of Veolia’s writedowns emerged
when EDF booked a 170 million-euro charge from its stake in
Dalkia International, an energy-services company 76 percent
owned by Veolia. At EDF’s first-half presentation on July 29,
Proglio said difficulties in Italy stem from late payments by
local governments, adding that management has been changed and a
revamp is needed.  Dividend Cut  Wirtz of WestLB is expecting Veolia to cut its dividend
payment for 2011 to 1 euro a share from 1.21 euros and report a
full-year net loss. On a conference call for 2010 earnings,
Frerot had said the utility’s goal was to increase both.  “The size of the writedown suggests to us that the issues
accumulated at Veolia through years of acquisitions and
exaggerated by the financial crisis were bigger than we
anticipated,” Citigroup analyst Sofia Savvantidou wrote in a
July 29 note to clients. The company is now “taking the right
actions to break-away from that legacy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  