-- 
On War, Guilt and ‘Thank You for Your Service’: Elizabeth Samet

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S a m e t
-- 
2011-08-02T00:01:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/war-guilt-and-thank-you-for-your-service-commentary-by-elizabeth-samet.html
Watch a 1940s or 1950s movie set in
New York City -- noir, comedy or melodrama -- and you are sure to
spot him: straphanging on a crowded subway car, buying a
newspaper at a kiosk or sitting in a coffee shop. The anonymous
man in uniform is a stock extra in these films, as elemental to
the urban landscape as the beat cop, the woman with the baby
carriage or the couple in love.  But today, a woman or man in military uniform dining in a
restaurant, sitting on a bench in Central Park or walking up
Broadway constitutes a spectacle. I have witnessed this
firsthand whenever one of my military colleagues and I have
taken  West Point  cadets to the city to attend a performance or
to visit a library or museum. My civilian clothes provide
camouflage as I watch my uniformed friends bombarded by
gratitude.  These meetings between soldier and civilian turn quickly
into street theater. The soldier is recognized with a handshake.
There’s often a request for a photograph or the tracing of a
six-degrees-of-separation genealogy: “My wife’s second cousin
is married to a guy in the 82nd Airborne.” Each encounter
concludes with a ritual utterance: “Thank you for your
service.”  Obligatory Thanks  One former captain I know proposed that “thank you for
your service” has become “an obligatory salutation.”
Dutifully offered by strangers, “somewhere between an
afterthought and heartfelt appreciation,” it is gratifying but
also embarrassing to a soldier with a strong sense of modesty
and professionalism. “People thank me for my service,” another
officer noted, “but they don’t really know what I’ve done.”  Sometimes, the drama between soldier and civilian turns
plain weird. One officer reported that while shopping in uniform
at the grocery store one evening, she was startled by a man
across the aisle who gave her an earnest, Hollywood-style,
chest-thumping Roman salute. My friend is unfailingly gracious,
but she was entirely at a loss for a proper response.  These transactions resemble celebrity sightings -- with the
same awkwardness, enthusiasm and suspension of normal
expectations about privacy and personal space. Yet while the
celebrity is an individual recognized for a unique, highly
publicized performance, the soldier is anonymous, a symbol of an
aggregate. His or her performance is unseen.  Spitting on Soldiers  The successful reincorporation of veterans into civil
society entails a complex, evolving process. Today, the
soldier’s homecoming has been further complicated by the absence
of a draft, which removes soldiers from the cultural mainstream,
and by the fact that the current wars in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan 
have little perceptible impact on the rhythms of daily life at
home.  Whether anyone ever spat on an American soldier returning
from  Vietnam  is a matter of debate. The sociologist and veteran
Jerry Lembcke disputed such tales in “ The Spitting Image: Myth,
Memory, and the Legacy of Vietnam .” Apocryphal or not, this
image has become emblematic of an era’s shame, and of the
failure of civilians to respond appropriately to the people they
had sent to fight a bankrupt war.  The specter of this guilt -- this perdurable archetype of
the hostile homecoming -- animates today’s encounters, which
seem to have swung to the other unthinking extreme. “Thank you
for your service” has become a mantra of atonement. But, as is
all too often the case with gestures of atonement, substance has
been eclipsed by mechanical ritual. After the engagement, both
parties retreat to separate camps, without a significant
exchange of ideas or perspectives having passed between them.  Collective Responsibility  When I broached the subject with a major with whom I had
experienced the phenomenon, he wrote a nuanced response.
Although he’s convinced that “the sentiments most people
express appear to be genuinely FELT,” he nonetheless distrusts
such spectacles. “Does the act of thanking a soldier
unconsciously hold some degree of absolution from the collective
responsibility?” he asked.  No reasonable person would argue that thanking soldiers for
their service isn’t preferable to spitting on them. Yet at least
in the perfunctory, formulaic way many such meetings take place,
it is an equally unnatural exchange. The ease with which “thank
you for your service” has circumvented a more enduring human
connection doesn’t bode well for mutual understanding between
soldiers and civilians. The inner lives of soldiers remain
opaque to most of us.  A Seductive Transaction  “Deep down,” the major, who served in  Iraq , acknowledged,
“my ego wants to embrace the ritualized adoration, the sense of
purpose, and the attendant mythology.” The giving and receiving
of thanks is a seductive transaction, and no one knows that
better than this officer: “I eagerly shake hands, engage in
small talk, and pose for pictures with total strangers.”
Juxtaposed in his mind with scenes from Fallujah or  Arlington
National Cemetery , however, his sanitized encounters with
civilians make him feel like  Mickey Mouse , he confessed.
“Welcome to Disneyland.”  Thanking soldiers on their way to or from a war isn’t the
same as imaginatively following them there. Conscience-easing
expressions of gratitude by politicians and citizens cloak with
courtesy the often bloody, wounding nature of a soldier’s
service. Today’s dominant narrative, one that favors
sentimentality over scrutiny, embodies a fantasy that everything
will be okay if only we display enough flag-waving enthusiasm.
More than 100,000 homeless veterans, and more than 40,000 troops
 wounded  in action in Iraq and  Afghanistan , may have a different
view.  Lincoln’s Consolation  If our theater of gratitude provoked introspection or led
to a substantive dialogue between giver and recipient, I would
celebrate it. But having witnessed these bizarre, fleeting
scenes, I have come to believe that they are a poor substitute
for something more difficult and painful -- a conversation about
what war does to the people who serve and to the people who
don’t. There are contradictions inherent in being, as many
Americans claim to be, for the troops but against the war. Most
fail to consider the social responsibilities such a stance
commits them to fulfilling in the coming decades.  Few Americans have understood more clearly the seductions
and inadequacies of professing gratitude than  Abraham Lincoln .
Offering to a mother who had lost two sons in the Civil War
“the consolation that may be found in the thanks of the
Republic,” Lincoln nevertheless acknowledged “how weak and
fruitless must be any words … which should attempt to beguile”
her from her grief. Expressions of thanks constitute the
beginning, not the end, of obligation.  (Elizabeth Samet is a professor of English at the U.S.
Military Academy and the author of “ Soldier’s Heart: Reading
Literature Through Peace and War at West Point .” The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Elizabeth D. Samet at  eliz.samet@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at  fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 