-- 
Wells Fargo Adds Program Trading as Securities Unit Expands

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-02T16:53:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/wells-fargo-hires-jpmorgan-s-rana-lee-to-start-program-trading.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , seeking to earn
more from a sales-and-trading business acquired with Wachovia
Corp. in 2008, is building a program-trading group to serve
institutional and corporate clients.  The bank hired four executives, including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s Haresh Rana and Michael M. Lee, said  Elise Wilkinson , a
Wells Fargo spokeswoman. The other additions are Kevin Kennedy
from Deutsche Bank AG and Weeden & Co.’s  Chris Johnson , 40, who
will start the program-trading sales group this month. They’re
among 25 executives hired in the past 18 months across sales and
trading, which now has about 150 employees.  Wells Fargo is adding specialty services to lure customers
including the largest  index funds , said Christopher Bartlett,
the division’s chief. Program traders handle transactions in
baskets that contain at least 15 stocks -- for instance, to help
managers of index-linked mutual funds rebalance holdings.  “We have worked on adding a number of capabilities to our
equity franchise in an effort to become more relevant to our
institutional and corporate client base,” Bartlett, 50, said in
a phone interview. “These employees will give us an ability to
do a deeper dive into the electronic-trading space with a subset
of clients that we weren’t penetrating before.”  Rana, 41, and Lee, 37, joined last month from JPMorgan’s
Delta One Trading Group, Wilkinson said in an e-mail. The new
hires will be based in  New York  and report to  Matthew Brown ,
head of cash trading, the San Francisco-based company said today
in a statement. Brown joined Wells Fargo in May 2009 from Bank
of America Corp. and reports to Bartlett.  ‘Low-Touch Trading’  Program trading accounted for 28 percent of the daily
volume on the New York Stock Exchange in the week ended July 22,
and almost 46 percent a month earlier, according to the most
recent data available from exchange owner  NYSE Euronext .  Banks are competing to hire traders and other executives
with expertise in program and automated trading, said Adam Kahn,
managing partner at Odyssey Search Partners, a New York-based
executive recruiting firm.  “The world’s going more electronic,” Kahn said in a phone
interview. “Volumes are down in the equity-options and cash-
equities businesses and a lot more of the orders are coming in
on the low-touch trading side.”  Wells Fargo must compete for those orders against rivals
including New York-based JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , which was the most active program-trading firm
during the week ended July 22, moving 455.5 million shares.
Wells Fargo wasn’t among the top 20.  Institutional Investors  “A lot of the firms like Goldman or JPMorgan are able to
command a lot of the order flow,” said Matthew Samelson,
founder of Woodbine Associates Inc., a Stamford, Connecticut-
based research firm and a former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
program trader. “The question for Wells Fargo is how are they
going to attract clients? It will be up to them to differentiate
themselves because these other firms aren’t going away.”  One way may be by offering a broader array of products and
services, Bartlett said. Wells Fargo recently launched WELX, an
off-exchange platform that uses computers to match buy and sell
orders between retail and institutional investors, and developed
11 algorithmic strategies, he said. The lender also created a
listed options business and corporate access desk, according to
the statement.  Wells Fargo is expanding an electronic-trading desk called
Wells Fargo Advanced Trading Solutions and hired Jason Straus in
October from  Barclays Capital  as a director in electronic-
trading sales, Wilkinson said.  “You have to have an electronic business to play the game
these days,” Samelson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 