-- 
Woori Returns to Profit as Interest Margins Improve, Loan Provisions Wane

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-08-02T08:03:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/woori-returns-to-profit-as-interest-margins-improve-loan-provisions-wane.html
Woori Finance Holdings Co., the owner
of  South Korea ’s second-largest bank, turned to a profit as
provision expenses fell, loan margins widened and it booked a
gain from selling Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. shares.  Seoul-based Woori Finance posted a second-quarter profit of
791.3 billion won ($752 million), compared with a restated loss
of 338.5 billion won a year earlier, it said in a regulatory
filing today.  The lender joins  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560)  and Hana Financial
Group Inc. in expanding profit last quarter as provisions
against bad loans declined and lending income was boosted by the
Bank of  Korea ’s policy rate increase aimed at tackling inflation.
Chairman Lee Pal Seung this year aims to halve Woori’s non-
performing loan ratio, which stood at 3.2 percent as of December.  “Woori’s bad-loan ratio has been higher than those of its
rivals and that’s been its biggest weakness,” said Sohn Joon Beum, an analyst at LIG Investment & Securities Co. “Cleaning
up bad assets with rising profit will strengthen Woori’s
earnings power going forward.”  Woori shares fell 2.1 percent to close at 13,950 won in
Seoul before the earnings announcement. The stock has lost 10
percent this year, compared with the benchmark  Kospi index (KOSPI) ’s 3.4
percent advance.  Hyundai Engineering Sale  The company posted a gain of about 720 billion won from
selling 8.3 million shares in Hyundai Engineering & Construction
in April, Woori said. Woori Bank, together with eight other
financial companies, sold their combined 35 percent stake in the
nation’s largest builder for 4.96 trillion won in April to
Hyundai Motor Group.  Woori’s loan-loss provisions at the banking division fell
to 711 billion won based on the Korean International Financial
Reporting Standards. That compares with the 918 billion won
provision a year earlier when the company reported financials
under generally accepted accounting principles of Korea, the
company said today.  The non-performing loan ratio dropped to 2.6 percent at the
end of June, compared with 3.6 percent three months earlier, it
said.  “As part of our asset-cleaning project, we’ve written off
and a sold significant amount of bad credit last quarter,” the
company said in an e-mailed statement. “We’ll continue working
to clean up assets through the end of year to erase concerns
over asset quality.”  Woori’s net interest margin, a measure of profitability
from lending, widened 23 basis points to 2.53 percent from a
year earlier. A basis point equals 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  