-- 
NYC World Trade Center Site’s Concrete Laborers Stop Work for a Second Day

-- B y   A s h w i n   S e s h a g i r i
-- 
2011-08-02T19:54:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/world-trade-center-site-s-concrete-laborers-stop-work-for-a-second-day.html
Unionized concrete laborers without a
contract since June stopped work for a second day at the  World
Trade Center site  in lower  Manhattan  in protest over proposed
wage cuts.  The walkout by members of the Cement & Concrete Workers of
New York slowed down construction on parts of the complex’s
transportation hub and the tower at 1 World Trade Center,
according to Steve Coleman, a spokesman for the  Port Authority 
of New York and  New Jersey , owner of the site. The 9/11 Memorial
isn’t affected and is scheduled to open on the 10th anniversary
of the attacks, Coleman said.  “Nobody gains anything with a work stoppage,” Rich Anderson, president of the New York Building Congress, a trade
organization that’s not involved in the contract negotiations,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s potentially very
disruptive in the short term, and in the long term, it doesn’t
help the industry in any good way.”  The concrete workers, whose contracts expired in June,
walked off the job site yesterday to protest a proposed wage
reduction of as much as 20 percent, according to Sal Merlino, a
member of the union’s local chapter 18a.  “We just want to work,” said Merlino, who was among
dozens of laborers gathered in a park across from the site this
morning. “We’d be insulted with a 5 percent cut. I didn’t think
it’d come to this.”  Local Chapters  Members of local chapters 6a, 18a and 20 joined the
walkout, according to Merlino.  Phone messages left at the offices of local chapters 6a,
18a and 20 weren’t returned. Bryan Winter, president of the
Cement League, which represents the site’s management, declined
to comment on the walkout.  “It’s better to lose a couple days now, so that we can
continue earning well in the future,” said Francisco Alvarado,
a concrete worker with local chapter 18a.  Alvarado, an immigrant from  El Salvador  who has lived and
worked in New York for 30 years, said the union is resisting
wage cuts because of how expensive it is to live in the city.  Unionized cement and concrete workers earned $34.90 per
hour in wages, $61.09 per hour when fringe benefits are
included, according to the Cement League’s  website .  Lou Coletti, chairman of the New York Building Trades
Employers’ Association, said management and union negotiators
would be meeting today and probably would continue talks through
the week.  “None of those sites should be held hostage to contract
negotiations,” Coletti, who isn’t involved in the discussions,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “They should be back
at work and working.”  Merlino and Alvarado said they didn’t think an impasse in
negotiations would result in a strike.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashwin Seshagiri in  New York  at 
 aseshagiri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  