-- 
Xstrata Profit Jumps 27% on Price Gains; Koniambo Costs Rise

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-08-02T16:25:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/xstrata-first-half-profit-rises-27-as-commodity-prices-climb.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the largest exporter of
power-station coal, said first-half profit climbed 27 percent
after commodity prices advanced. The capital cost of the
Koniambo nickel project leapt 30 percent to $5 billion.  Net income rose to $2.92 billion, from $2.29 billion a year
earlier, the Zug, Switzerland-based company said today in a
statement. Xstrata posted a 23 percent gain in sales to $16.8
billion and proposed an interim dividend of 13 cents a share.  “Average prices for all of Xstrata’s commodities rose
above the first half of 2010,” Chief Executive Officer Mick Davis said in the statement. A stronger second-quarter
performance countered production disruptions caused by weather
in the first three months, he said.  The average price of power-station coal at Australia’s
Newcastle port, a benchmark for  Asia , rose to $124 a metric ton
from $97 a year earlier, according to McCloskey Group. Copper,
Xstrata’s other main product, jumped 30 percent to $9,401 a ton.  Xstrata raised the estimated capital cost of its Koniambo
project in  New Caledonia  to $5 billion from the $3.85 billion it
approved in 2007, according to today’s statement. The company’s
share of the cost is $4.6 billion. Koniambo, which is 76 percent
complete, will begin output in the second half of 2012, it said.  “The increased cost arises from productivity and
contractor underperformance,” Xstrata said, also citing the
“impact of hyper-inflation on the costs of labor, contractor
rates and materials.”  Shares Fall  Xstrata declined 45.5 pence, or 3.6 percent, to 1,235.5
pence at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . That was the lowest
level since Oct. 29.  Xstrata is seeking to increase overall output by 50 percent
through 2014 to benefit from growing Asian demand for coal and
metals. The company, which agreed last month to buy Canada’s
 First Coal Corp.  for C$147 million ($154 million), will consider
“bolt-on acquisitions,” while continuing to focus on organic
growth, Davis said today in a telephone interview.  “Clearly our focus is on our projects, but we have a lot
of skills” in mergers and acquisitions, he said. “When it
makes sense we encourage our guys to go after them. M&A will
always remain an option.”  Output Drops  On July 26, Xstrata reported an 18 percent decline in
first-half production of coking coal following heavy rains in
 Australia . Copper output also fell as the metal content in ore
dropped.  The company expects to report increased volumes in the
second half as a result of higher copper grades, the recovery of
flood-damaged mines, and the ramp-up of Australia’s Mangoola
project and  South Africa ’s ATCOM East coal venture, it said.  “Substantially stronger production performance is
expected,” Rob Clifford, a London-based analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG, wrote today in a report. “This should drive higher
margins, top line and cost improvement.”  While raw-material and power-price increases pushed up
production costs in the first half, the company achieved $52
million of “real unit cost savings,” helped by lower expenses
at new projects, Davis said.  Xstrata also said today it approved two Canadian nickel
projects totaling $649 million. The company will proceed with
development of the $530 million Raglan extension project in
northern  Quebec  and the $119 million Fraser Morgan venture in
Sudbury, Ontario, it said in a separate statement.  A further five projects are due to be commissioned in the
remainder of the year, according to Xstrata. “That additional
volume will help reduce our cost profile, so we expect our unit
cost performance to continue,” Davis said.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization increased 30 percent to $5.82 billion in the first
half, missing the $5.93 billion average estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Profit excluding one-time items climbed
to $2.87 billion from $2.3 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  