-- 
Xstrata Says ‘Stupid’ Australian Tax Will Fail to Tackle Emissions

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-08-02T11:44:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/xstrata-says-bloody-stupid-australian-tax-to-benefit-indonesia.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA)  Chief Executive Officer
Mick Davis said Australia’s “stupid” plans to increase taxes
on  carbon emissions  will fail to tackle global  climate change 
and push mining companies to shift production to Indonesia.  “The unilateral carbon price at the rate that they’ve set
is a bloody stupid idea,” said Davis, who heads the world’s
biggest exporter of coal for power stations. “It’s not going to
lead to a reduction in global emissions in the way they think.”  Davis said today he was against the rate that Australia is
proposing, not the principle of paying for carbon emissions.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  plans to charge companies an
initial A$23 ($25) a metric ton of carbon dioxide from July 2012
before moving to an emissions trading system by 2015. Coal mines
in  Australia , the world’s largest exporter of the raw material,
must pay for so-called fugitive emissions, released naturally
from operations, while gaining A$1.3 billion in compensation.  “The carbon price is a really blunt instrument which is
designed to raise revenue,” Davis told analysts on a call.  Australia plans to raise about A$27.8 billion in three
years. The tax may cut the value of the coal industry by about
A$8 billion, or about 4 percent of its net present value, as
producers including Xstrata and Anglo American Plc bear higher
costs, according to research group Wood Mackenzie Ltd.  The tax will make some projects uneconomical and cost jobs,
the  Minerals Council of Australia  said last month. The
Australian Coal Association said overseas coal buyers may switch
to other nations, forcing mine closures. Australia will raise
the charge 2.5 percent a year, plus inflation, through to 2015.  Deep Irony  “The businesses will curtail activities so they don’t pay
increased cost and in that situation the coal will be produced
in  Indonesia  and by somebody else,” Davis said. “Ironically,
the coal they get will emit more gas than the coal coming out of
Australia and the impact on the global emissions will be zero.”  Xstrata today reported first-half profit climbed 27 percent
on higher coal prices. Net income rose to $2.92 billion, from
$2.29 billion a year earlier, the Zug, Switzerland-based company
said in a statement. It saw a 23 percent gain in sales to $16.8
billion and proposed an interim dividend of 13 cents a share.  The average price of power-station coal at Australia’s
Newcastle port, a benchmark for  Asia , rose to $124 a ton from
$97 a year earlier, according to McCloskey Group. Copper,
Xstrata’s other main product, jumped 30 percent to $9,401 a ton.  Xstrata is seeking to increase overall output by 50 percent
through 2014 to benefit from growing Asian demand for coal and
metals. The company, which agreed last month to buy Canada’s
 First Coal Corp.  for C$147 million ($154 million), will consider
“bolt-on acquisitions,” while continuing to focus on organic
growth, Davis said today in a telephone interview.  Merger Options  “Clearly our focus is on our projects, but we have a lot
of skills” in mergers and acquisitions, he said. “When it
makes sense, we encourage our guys to go after them. M&A will
always remain an option.”  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization increased 30 percent to $5.82 billion in the first
half, missing the $5.93 billion average estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Profit excluding one-time items climbed
to $2.87 billion from $2.3 billion.  On July 26, Xstrata reported an 18 percent drop in first-
half output of coking coal following heavy rains in Australia.
Copper output also fell as the metal content in ore dropped.  “Substantially stronger production performance is expected
in the second half,” Rob Clifford, an analyst in  London  at
Deutsche Bank AG, wrote today in a report. “This should drive
higher margins, top line and cost improvement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  