-- 
Yields Drop to Nine-Month Low on Central Bank Stimulus Bet: Japan Credit

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-08-03T02:35:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/yields-drop-to-eight-month-low-on-central-bank-stimulus-bet-japan-credit.html
Five-year Japanese bond yields are
trading at an almost nine-month low as the yen approaches a post
World War II record high, fueling speculation the  Bank of Japan 
will expand stimulus this week to support the economy.  Yields on Japan’s five-year government notes, which are
more sensitive to changes in monetary policy than longer-term
bonds, fell to 0.34 percent, the lowest since Nov. 12. U.S.
five-year yields dropped to 1.18 percent, the least since
November. The yen climbed to 76.30 against the dollar on Aug. 1,
its strongest since a postwar record of 76.25 on March 17.  The BOJ may move to ensure that the appreciating yen
doesn’t damp exports and derail the economy’s recovery from the
March earthquake and tsunami. Five of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News said the central bank will increase monetary
stimulus at its Aug. 4-5 meeting, while two said there’s a
possibility of it and seven said it will probably stand pat.  “The BOJ will likely announce an easing measure as soon as
possible this time to respond to the strong yen and weak dollar
caused by the U.S.’s slowing economy and worsening financial
conditions,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief  Japan  economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo and a former BOJ official. “The
Japanese economy has become less resilient to a stronger yen as
competition from Asian companies has become more severe.”  The central bank may provide further monetary stimulus this
week, the Nikkei newspaper reported yesterday without citing a
source for the information. Japanese officials are also
preparing to sell the yen, the report said.  Strength of Yen  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said yesterday the
yen was “overvalued” and that he’s watching the markets, while
declining to comment on intervention.  Toyota Motor Corp. “can’t keep up with the speed of the
yen’s rise,” Takahiko Ijichi, senior managing officer at the
world’s largest carmaker, said yesterday. The yen’s gains cut
Toyota’s first-quarter operating profit by 50 billion yen ($647
million), the company said. Every 1 yen gain against the dollar
cuts Toyota’s operating profit by 34 billion yen, according to
the company’s full-year outlook.  Amid speculation of a BOJ move this week, the benchmark 10-
year government bond yield fell to 1.01 percent, the lowest
since November. One-year discount bills have yielded 0.11
percent since July 14, barely above the BOJ’s overnight call
loan rate target between zero percent and 0.1 percent, in
another sign of the market’s expectation of easing.  Relative Returns  Government bonds  returned 1.4 percent in the past three
months in Japan, compared with 3.9 percent in the U.S. and 5.3
percent in  Germany , according to indexes compiled by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  Of the five economists predicting a BOJ move this week, two
expect it to raise the asset-purchase program by 5 trillion yen
($65 billion) from the current 10 trillion yen this week, one
projects a 10 trillion yen increase, and two didn’t predict the
amount, according to a Bloomberg survey. The BOJ buys assets
such as government debt, corporate bonds and real-estate
investment trusts to inject money into the economy.  The central bank may increase the amount of government
bonds it buys as part of the program, said  Kazuhiko Sano , chief
strategist at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co., one of the 25 primary
dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales.  “If the BOJ lengthens the maturity of government debt it
buys in the fund, that may help push down yields on medium to
long-term government bonds,” said Sano, who expects the BOJ to
expand the fund this week, without predicting the amount.  Yield Forecast  The 10-year bond yield may fall to 0.9 percent as the yen
rises to a record, Sano said.  The BOJ buys government debt with a remaining maturity of
between one and two years, in addition to discount bills, which
mature in one year or less. It plans to buy up to about 5
trillion yen of government bonds and bills.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said last week that the
yen’s strengthening could hurt Japan’s economy. Board member
Hidetoshi Kamezaki said the bank would need to act
“proactively” should the yen’s gains pose a threat to growth.  Japan’s industrial production rose a less-than-expected 3.9
percent in June from May, a government report last week showed.
The world’s third-largest economy will probably expand in the
third and fourth quarters after shrinking for three straight
quarters, according to a survey of 41 economists by the
government-affiliated Economic Planning Association.  Before three out of the last five BOJ monetary easing
decisions since December 2009, the yen strengthened more than 2
percent in the preceding month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yen has gained more than 3 percent since the
BOJ’s last meeting on July 11-12.  Many Factors  The BOJ may expand its asset fund by 5 trillion yen if
there’s a sharp increase in the yen, stocks fall, economic
conditions worsen or deflation concerns mount, said Mari Iwashita, chief market economist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has fallen 5.9 percent so far
this year. It’s recovered about 17 percent from its low on March
15 right after the magnitude-9 quake in northeastern Japan.  Central bankers may hold off from boosting stimulus this
week as it takes a “wait-and-see stance,” said  Hideo Kumano ,
chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo.  “The BOJ may not have changed its economic view that the
economy is picking up with an easing of supply-chain
constraints,” he said.  With weak economic signs coming out of the U.S. including
the  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index slumping to
a two-year low this week, the yen will likely stay stronger than
80 to the dollar, according to Shinichi Horikawa, who helps
manage the equivalent of about $12 billion at Mitsui Sumitomo
Kirameki Life Insurance Co. in  Tokyo .  Should the yen strengthen sharply beyond its postwar high,
“the BOJ will likely ease further to respond to it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  