-- 
Hyundai, Kia U.S. Sales Surge as Honda’s Inventory Constraints Linger

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-08-03T06:52:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/hyundai-kia-u-s-sales-surge-as-honda-s-inventory-woes-linger.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270) , South Korea’s largest automakers, outpaced the
industry in July U.S. sales while Honda Motor Co. and  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  led declines for Asian brands amid inventory
constraints.  Sales rose 10 percent from a year earlier for Hyundai
and 28 percent for Kia, the companies said yesterday.
Deliveries fell 28 percent for Honda and 23 percent for
Toyota, the largest Asia-based automaker. Nissan Motor Co.
reported a gain of 2.7 percent.  “The earthquake that hurt the Japanese created an
opening for Hyundai and Kia to get more attention, and
they’re taking advantage of it,” said Jessica Caldwell, an
analyst for Edmunds.com, a  Santa Monica , California-based
auto pricing and data service. “Toyota and Honda both still
have inventory issues, but the problem seems worse for
Honda.”  While inventories for Japan-based carmakers are rising
since the nation’s March 11 quake and tsunami disrupted
production of models such as Toyota’s Prius and Honda’s Civic,
neither company expects to be fully restocked this year. A
slump in U.S. hiring is also leading consumers to retrench.  Hyundai Motor shares fell 4.5 percent to 214,000 won in
 Seoul , while Kia dropped 2.6 percent to 75,700 won.  Consumer Spending   Consumer spending in the U.S. unexpectedly dropped in
June for the first time in almost two years, the Commerce
Department reported yesterday. Incomes grew at the slowest
pace since November and the savings rate was the highest
since September.  “We’re seeing consumers not have the confidence to
spend,”  Rebecca Lindland , an IHS Automotive analyst based in
Lexington,  Massachusetts , told Bloomberg Television.  Industrywide sales of new cars and light trucks totaled
1.06 million in July, a 0.9 percent rise from a year earlier,
according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata Corp.  The declines for Toyota and Honda cut sales for Asia-
based carmakers by 10.3 percent, while U.S.-based brands
increased 9.9 percent. Sales rose 7.6 percent for  General
Motors Co. (GM) , 5.9 percent for  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and 20 percent for
Chrysler Group LLC, which is majority owned by  Fiat SpA. (F)   ‘Lost Some Momentum’  “The economy has clearly lost some momentum,”  Don Johnson , GM’s vice president of U.S. sales, said on a
conference call yesterday. “We do believe that it will
continue to recover, but more gradually than we originally
anticipated as we move through the second half of the year.”  Congressional debate over raising the $14.3 trillion U.S.
debt ceiling, combined with higher gasoline prices and
limited supply of small vehicles, hurt the industry last
month, he said.  Toyota reported sales of 130,802 Toyota, Lexus and Scion
vehicles, down from 169,224 a year earlier. The drop was
narrower than the 25 percent average decline of three analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “July marked the first full month of normal production
for eight of 12 North American-built models,” Jeff Bracken,
U.S. vice president for Toyota-brand sales, said in a
conference call. Those models include Camry, Corolla and
Avalon sedans, Matrix hatchbacks, Highlander and Sequoia
sport-utility vehicles, Sienna minivans and Venza wagons.  Toyota  Supplies of the Prius, the top-selling hybrid, rose in
July and will keep growing for the rest of the year, said
Randy Pflughaupt, the Toyota City, Japan-based company’s U.S.
group vice president. Full-year sales of the model “should
end ahead of last year,” he said in a conference call.  The addition of a redesigned Camry, a new Yaris
subcompact, the Prius v wagon and the Scion iQ minicar later
this year should accelerate Toyota’s sales rebound, Bracken
said.  Toyota’s July market share fell to 12.3 percent from
12.8 percent a year earlier, according to Autodata.  Honda, the Japanese automaker that relies most on U.S.
sales, said deliveries of its Honda and Acura vehicles fell
to 80,502 from 112,437, the biggest volume drop of any
automaker in July. The decline was steeper than the 23
percent average of three analyst estimates.  The Tokyo-based automaker’s sales have been crimped by a
continuing shortage of its revamped Civic small car because
of quake-related parts disruptions.  Consumer Reports  this week said it couldn’t recommend
the latest version of the Civic, Honda’s second-biggest
selling U.S. model. The magazine cited a decline in agility
and interior quality, a choppier ride, longer stopping
distances and increased road noise, compared with the
previous Civic.  Honda’s Civic  Civic sales tumbled 40 percent last month and have
dropped 9.7 percent this year.  Honda’s market share fell to 7.6 percent from 10.7
percent, Autodata said.  Nissan,  Japan ’s second-biggest automaker, sold 84,601
vehicles last month, rising from 82,337 in July 2010.
Deliveries for the Yokohama-based company were expected to be
little changed, based on the average of three analysts’
estimates.  “Nissan closed out its fiscal first quarter in June, so
it looks like it may have pulled ahead some sales,” said
Caldwell, the Edmunds analyst.  Nissan’s July market share improved 0.2 percentage point
to 8 percent, according to Autodata.  Hyundai  Hyundai,  South Korea ’s largest automaker, sold 59,561
vehicles to U.S. customers, an increase from 54,106 a year
earlier. Gains for the Seoul-based company were led by its
revamped Accent subcompact car and Sonata and Genesis sedans.  Kia, Hyundai’s affiliate, sold 45,504 vehicles, a gain
of more than 10,000 units from July 2010. Sales of the Optima
sedan more than tripled, while deliveries rose 26 percent for
the Soul wagon and 47 percent for the Sorento SUV.  Combined volume for Hyundai and Seoul-based Kia,
affiliates that maintain separate operations in the U.S.,
totaled 105,065, trailing only GM, Ford, Toyota and Chrysler.  Hyundai’s market share rose to 5.6 percent from 5.2
percent, and Kia’s was 4.3 percent, up 0.9 percentage point,
according to Autodata.  Sales for Subaru, the auto brand of Japan’s Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd., fell 9.4 percent, and  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  sold
just 0.2 percent more vehicles than a year ago.  Among smaller brands,  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) ’s sales
rose 41 percent and Suzuki Motor Corp. had a 25 percent
increase in July.  Industry sales will rebound in the second half as
vehicle availability increases, said Alan Baum, a West
Bloomfield, Michigan-based industry consultant at Baum &
Associates. The improved supply probably will lead to lower
vehicle prices late this year, he said.  “The issue is going to be how aggressive Toyota and
Honda in particular are in terms of pricing and trying to get
their sales back in order,” he said in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  