-- 
Zapatero Postpones Planned Vacation as Spanish Bond Yields Surge Toward 7%

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-08-02T19:10:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/zapatero-postpones-planned-vacation-as-spanish-bond-yields-surge-toward-7-.html
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero delayed a planned vacation as the country’s
borrowing costs approached the 7 percent mark that heralded
bailouts of Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland.  The prime minister is in “permanent” contact with Finance
Minister  Elena Salgado  and has spoken with European Commission
President  Jose Manuel Barroso , according to his office.
Zapatero’s economic advisers have discussed developments in
financial markets with counterparts in Germany, France and
Italy, according to one official, who asked not to be identified
in line with government policy.  Ten-year bond yields for  Spain  and Italy reached euro-era
records today on concern that rising debt-servicing costs may
wipe out the benefits of austerity measures and slow growth. The
 International Monetary Fund  said July 29 that Spain remains in
the “danger zone,” on the same day that Zapatero announced
plans to hold early elections in November.  “It’s extreme -- parallels to 2008 have been drawn,” said
 Peter Chatwell , a fixed income strategist at Credit Agricole CIB
in  London , referring to the height of the financial crisis when
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt. “The problem we’ve
got here is an extremely risk averse market, very thin liquidity
and nothing of substance to stop the negative periphery trades
being put on.”  Yield Surge  Spain’s 10-year yield surged today to 6.455 percent, the
highest level since 1997, as the gap between Spanish and German
borrowing costs reached a euro-record high of 404 basis points.
The yield on 10-year Italian bonds jumped to as much as 6.251
percent.  Zapatero said the negotiations over raising the U.S.
federal borrowing limit added to market instability as European
leaders battle to contain the fallout from the Greek debt
crisis.  EU leaders are agreed that they must respond “together” to
“the global economic and financial crisis,” he said in a
statement on the government’s website.  Italy  Talks  In Italy, Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  held talks on
the crisis today with the country’s Financial Stability
Committee, which includes officials from the central bank and
market regulator Consob. Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , who
has barely spoken in public since the selloff of Spanish and
Italian securities accelerated last month, will hold televised
speeches in both houses of parliament tomorrow to say how the
government plans to shore up its finances and spur growth.  Zapatero has informed Spain’s election candidates of the
main two parties of conversations he has held with members of
his government, other European leaders and the Commission, the
official said. The official said he didn’t know how long
Zapatero’s trip to the southern Spanish region of Andalusia will
be delayed.  “The period up to the elections is going to be too long,”
Luis de Guindos, who served as deputy finance minister in the
the opposition People’s party’s previous government, said in an
interview yesterday. “Markets are going to be concerned that
there will be slippage on policies with a lame-duck government
in charge.”  Close Eye  The European Union is keeping a very close eye on financial
markets, European Commission spokeswoman  Chantal Hughes  told
reporters in Brussels today. The EU is confident that Spain will
take all fiscal steps necessary to get its economy back on track
and no bailout for the country is on the table, she said.  Moody’s Investors Service put Spain’s Aa2 rating on review
for a possible cut on July 29, citing “funding pressures”
after a summit of the region’s officials failed to convince
investors they would halt the spread of the debt crisis after
arranging a so-called selective default for  Greece .  Salgado, speaking on radio Onda Cero the same day, said
that “ Europe ’s decisions at last week’s summit must be
implemented more quickly” to reassure markets. “Spain is on
the right path for fiscal consolidation,” she said, adding that
“this is only a revision and Moody’s won’t take action” for
another three months.  Zapatero on July 29 called early general elections for Nov.
20, bringing forward the date of the vote from March as Europe’s
debt crisis drove the country’s borrowing costs higher.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 