-- 
Zimbabwe Loses $12 Billion in Potential Output in 10 Years, Farmers Say

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-08-02T11:19:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/zimbabwe-loses-12-billion-in-potential-output-in-10-years-farmers-say.html
Zimbabwe lost about $12 billion in
agricultural output in the 10 years through 2009 after the
government seized commercial farms from whites, the country’s
Commercial Farmers’ Union said.  Total agricultural production based on today’s prices
declined to 1.35 million metric tons, or $1 billion, in 2009
from 4.3 million metric tons valued at $3.5 billion in 2000, the
Harare-based group said on its  website  today.  “If the aim of land reform was to evict whites and replace
them with blacks, then it can be deemed a success,” CFU
President Deon Theron said in an annual report on the union’s
website. “However, if the aim was to benefit the majority and
not only a chosen few, then it has been a failure.”  Theron said that the majority of land seized from white
farmers had been given to politicians, senior members of the
security forces, judges, civil servants and so-called veterans
of the war against white-minority rule. Only 1.8 percent of the
former workers on the commercial farms and their families
received land under the program, according to the CFU.  “President  Robert Mugabe  and his family ‘own’ 39 farms,”
said Theron, who listed six members of Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African
National Union-Patriotic Front party with more than five farms
in their families.  Calls to Mugabe’s office and official spokesman  George Charamba  seeking comment today weren’t immediately answered.  U.K. Study  Not all studies have shown the land seizures to be a
failure.  In the Masvingo province, two-thirds of the land went to
low-income Zimbabweans, while only 5 percent went to people
linked to the “political-military-security elite,” according
to a  study  by Ian Scoones at the U.K.’s Institute of Development
Studies at Sussex University.  Corn production fell to 1.2 million metric tons this year
from 2.04 million tons in 2000, while wheat production will
probably drop to 6,000 tons from 250,000 tons, the CFU
estimated. The country needs about 1.4 million metric tons of
corn to meet local demand and 450,000 tons of wheat.  Harvests of barley, cotton, small grains, soy beans,
groundnuts, sunflower, tea, coffee, paprika, flowers, citrus and
vegetables had also fallen, some by more than half, said Theron.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 