-- 
‘Fire Sale’ of Assets Not Way for U.S. to Avoid Debt Limit, Treasury Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-05-06T22:13:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/-fire-sale-of-assets-not-way-for-u-s-to-avoid-debt-limit-treasury-says.html
The U.S. government can’t sell assets
to stay below the debt limit once it has exhausted its borrowing
room, Treasury assistant secretary  Mary Miller  said today.  Asset sales are a “misguided notion” that won’t postpone
the need to increase the  limit  by any “meaningful” amount of
time, Miller said on the Treasury’s blog. It would also hurt the
economy and threaten international financial stability, she
said.  “A ‘fire sale’ of financial assets would be damaging to
the economy, taxpayers, and financial markets,” Miller said.
“It would harm the interests of taxpayers, and would undermine
confidence in the  United States .”  Miller said the government borrows about $125 billion per
month, a need that could not be alleviated by quick sales of
gold, mortgage-backed securities or  student loans . She said such
sales have consistently been rejected by Treasury secretaries
going back to the  Reagan administration .  “The infeasibility of asset sales can be illustrated by an
analogy: a family that is struggling to make its monthly
mortgage payment could try to sell all of its possessions within
a week at a garage sale or on the Internet. But, of course, the
family would receive much less than the value of its
possessions,” Miller said. “And once the next month came, the
family would still need to make its mortgage payments -- yet all
of its possessions would be gone. ”  The Treasury expects to reach the $14.3 trillion debt limit
no later than May 16 unless Congress acts. By taking
“extraordinary measures,” the U.S. can keep borrowing until
Aug. 2, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in a letter
to lawmakers this week. These measures include suspending the
department’s state and local goverment securities program and
tapping some federal retirement trust funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 Rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  