-- 
‘Squatter Rent’ May Boost Spending as Mortgage Holders Bail

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-05-06T14:26:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/-squatter-rent-may-boost-spending-as-u-s-mortgage-holders-bail.html
Melissa White and her husband stopped
paying their mortgage in May 2008 after it reset to $3,200 a
month, more than double the original rate. That gave them extra
cash to pay off debts and spend on staples until their  Las Vegas 
home sold two years later for less than they owed.  “We didn’t pay it for about 24 months,” said White, who
quit her job as a beautician during that period after becoming
pregnant with her first child and experiencing medical
complications. “What we had, we could put towards food and the
truck payments and insurance and health things I was dealing
with.”  Millions of Americans have more money to spend since they
fell delinquent on their mortgages amid the worst housing
collapse since the Great Depression. They are staying in their
homes for free about a year and a half on average, buying time
to restructure their finances and providing an unexpected
support for consumer spending, which makes up about 70 percent
of the economy.  So-called “squatter’s rent,” or the increase to income
from withheld mortgage payments, will be an estimated $50
billion this year, according to  Michael Feroli , chief U.S.
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. The extra cash
could represent a boost to spending that’s equal to about half
the estimated savings generated by cuts to payroll withholding
in December’s bipartisan tax plan.  “We’ve had a lot of government transfers to the household
sector; this is a transfer from the business sector to
households,” Feroli said. “It’s a shock absorber that has
helped the consumer ride out the storm.”  Now Renting  White, 28, now has two children, daughter Makenzie, 2, and
son Christian, 1. She and her husband, Shannon, a sheet-metal
worker, rent a house for $1,425 a month.  “My credit’s back,” she said. “I’d buy a house again,
but I’d get a fixed-rate loan.”  Consumer spending  is projected to rise 2.8 percent this
year, according to economists in an April Bloomberg News survey,
after a 1.7 percent increase in 2010.  Delinquencies and defaults have helped homeowners save
more, pay down other debts and move on to more affordable homes,
according to  Stan Humphries , chief economist at Zillow Inc., a
Seattle-based provider of housing data. Owners in default need
the savings because degraded credit scores from the default make
it more difficult to borrow, he said.  “It’s bad that they’ve lost the home, but household
finances have been rearranged in such a way that it’s arguably
more sustainable,” Humphries said.  Delinquent Debt  Van Perrault, a home appraiser who defaulted on his Saint
Mary’s,  Maryland , investment property in 2007 after his tenants
stopped paying the rent, used the extra money to take care of
late payments on his delinquent credit-card debt.  The additional $1,500 a month “made a difference in my
life,” said Perrault, 60, adding that paying down his card
balances helped him and his wife limit the damage to their
credit scores.  Consumer debt  fell to $11.4 trillion in the fourth quarter
of 2010, down about $1.1 trillion from the peak in the third
quarter of 2008, the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  said in
February. Mortgage debt dropped 9.1 percent in the period.  A total of 6.3 million homeowners weren’t current on their
loans at the end of March, with 2.2 million in the process of
foreclosure, according to data from Lender Processing Services
Inc., a Jacksonville, Florida-based provider of mortgage-
processing services and data. Loans in foreclosure were an
average 549 days late.  Conscious Decision  While many Americans couldn’t make payments because they
lost their jobs or earned less during the recession, others made
the conscious decision to stop paying -- or carry out a so-
called strategic default -- on homes worth less than the
outstanding obligation.  About 27 percent of single-family homeowners with
mortgages, or about 15.7 million, were “underwater” at the end
of last year, according to Zillow, the highest share since the
first quarter of 2009, during the recession. Las Vegas led the
nation, at 82 percent, followed by 70 percent for Phoenix.  Failing to pay a mortgage bill is “a big moral issue,”
said  Karl Case , co-founder of a housing-price index that bears
his name. “On the other hand, it’s exactly what you would
expect given the way we treat and reward behavior in an economic
system built for private gain.”  Strategic Default  More than a third of mortgage defaults were strategic,
according to a June 2010 survey by finance professors Paola Sapienza of the  Kellogg School  of Management at  Northwestern
University  and Luigi Zingales of the University of  Chicago ’s
Booth School of Business. That was up from 29 percent in a March
2009 survey.  Almost half of Americans surveyed in January “said they
would be more likely to default if their bank was accused of
predatory lending, even if they’re morally opposed to strategic
default,” Zingales said in a telephone interview from Chicago.
“One likely reason for this may be related to a psychological
notion of retribution.”  Adam Turner, 43, went eight months without making payments
on his Las Vegas townhouse after he quit his job as a casino-
restaurant wine steward in November 2009. He stopped paying as
“a way of sticking it back to the banks” for pushing mortgages
on people who shouldn’t have been qualified, he said. He sold
the property in a July 2010 short-sale -- when a bank agrees to
accept less than the outstanding value of the loan.  Distressed Deals  Distressed deals -- short sales and foreclosures --
accounted for 40 percent of existing-home transactions in March,
up from about one third last year, according to the Chicago-
based National Association of Realtors.  With unemployment at 9 percent in April and forecast to
average 8.7 percent for the full year -- well above the 4.6
percent average in 2007 before the recession began -- more
Americans probably will enter the default pipeline this year.
The number of homes receiving a foreclosure notice will climb
about 20 percent, reaching a peak for the housing crisis,
predicts RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine, California-based data
seller.  Turner, now a waiter and renting an apartment, used the
money he saved by not making mortgage payments to take care of
electric and phone bills and buy necessities while he was
unemployed.  “It definitely boosted my  cash flow , which was helpful to
move on with my life,” said Turner, who made almost $100,000 a
year before the recession. “It was not like I was celebrating
and partying. It was a rough time. It represented the American
dream that collapsed around me.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  New York  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  