-- 
Adidas Plans to Close Gap to Nike at 2012 Games

-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 
2011-05-29T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/adidas-says-outdoor-gear-sales-growing-faster-than-sports-goods.html
Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-largest
sporting-goods maker, plans to use the London 2012 Olympics to
bridge a gap with  Nike Inc. (NKE)  in the U.K. capital that gives its
larger competitor overall market leadership in the country.  Adidas controls about 15 percent of the 4.3 billion-pound
($7.1 billion) U.K. market for sports clothing and footwear,
less than Nike’s 18 percent to 19 percent, Gil Steyaert, head of
the company’s U.K. business, said at a press conference. The
difference is due to Nike’s lead in London, he said.  “We have a history of being more relevant to the northern
part of the U.K. and  Scotland  than the south part,” Steyaert
said. “Nike has always been more relevant in  London .”  Adidas is the official sportswear sponsor at London 2012,
which Chief Executive Officer Herbert Hainer said will provide
an opportunity to add about 100 million pounds to annual revenue
and help it achieve a goal to overtake Nike in the U.K. by 2015.
The Herzogenaurach, Germany-based company will produce all
clothing bearing the official games logo, he said.  “We will see the brand being at its best during 2012,”
Steyaert said. “We have the ability to actually take leadership
with the games just after that, and that’s our ambition.”  Adidas already has the sporting-goods lead in countries
including Russia, Germany and  France , Hainer said.  The Olympics sponsorship includes supplying uniforms
designed by Stella McCartney to be worn by members of the
British team, Hainer said. Adidas will also outfit all
volunteers, technical staff and officials at the games.  Expanded Distribution  The London games will give the company the opportunity to
expand distribution beyond existing channels, by selling non-
Adidas branded products in supermarkets, and at stores in
airports and train stations, Steyaert said. It will be the first
time Adidas supplies U.K. grocery chains, he said.  Adidas has been associated with the Olympics since the 1928
summer games in Amsterdam. The company was the official
sportswear sponsor at  Athens  in 2004 and Beijing in 2008.  “We want to use the  Olympic Games  to show to the world
that we are the Olympic brand,” Hainer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Jarvis in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 