-- 
Adidas, Blackstone Said Among Bidders for Fortune’s Golf Unit

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-05-06T19:56:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/adidas-blackstone-group-said-to-be-among-bidders-for-fortune-s-golf-unit.html
Adidas AG (ADS)  and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  are
among the companies vying for  Fortune Brands Inc. (FO) ’s golf
division, said four people with knowledge of the matter.  Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd. (5110) , the owner of the Srixon
golf ball line, also may submit a bid, said one of the people,
who declined to be identified because the process is private.
Offers are due May 9, and Fortune may negotiate with multiple
parties in the coming weeks, another person said.  Fortune’s sporting-goods business, which makes the top-
selling Titleist ball brand and FootJoy golf shoes, generated
more than $1.2 billion in sales last year. Potential buyer
Adidas yesterday posted a 26 percent sales gain in its golf
unit, fueled by the success of the new TaylorMade R11 club.  ’’Adidas is a more likely buyer than Nike or any other
sporting-goods maker as it has the money and wants to grow its
golf business,’’ said Peter Steiner, an amateur player and
analyst at BHF Bank in  Frankfurt . He has an “overweight”
rating on Adidas.  Clarkson Hine, a spokesman for Deerfield, Illinois-based
Fortune, declined to comment on the process, as did Adidas
spokeswoman Katja Schreiber and Blackstone’s  Peter Rose . The
Financial Times reported the potential bidders earlier.  Fortune, led by Chief Executive Officer Bruce Carbonari,
began planning to dismantle itself after activist  William Ackman 
became the largest shareholder. Fortune intends to spin off its
home and security division and focus on distilled spirits, such
as Sauza tequila and Jim Beam bourbon. The home unit, whose
products include Moen faucets and Master Lock padlocks,
accounted for $3.23 billion in sales in 2010, compared with
$2.67 billion for spirits.  Stock Performance  The shares rose 33 cents to $63.83 at 3:54 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares had gained 5.4
percent this year before today.  Buying Fortune’s golf unit would allow  Japan ’s Sumitomo to
expand its own sporting-goods business, which includes tennis
balls and Srixon. The company also manufactures automobile and
motorcycle tires and industrial rubber products. Calls to
Sumitomo’s U.S. offices weren’t immediately returned.  Fortune is making “significant progress” on a spinoff of
the home-products unit, to be called Fortune Brands Home &
Security, Carbonari said on a conference call yesterday to
discuss quarterly results.  The company said then that first-quarter profit, excluding
items such as restructuring costs, rose to 59 cents a share,
topping the 51-cent average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Total sales advanced 8.1 percent to $1.76 billion, led by growth
in the spirits business.  Sum of Parts  Fortune has an enterprise value of $13.3 billion, which
includes items such as debt. The sports-equipment business alone
was worth $1.2 billion as of May 3, according to Doug Lane, an
analyst with Jefferies & Co. in  New York . The spirits business,
anchored by its bourbon brands, could be worth $8.6 billion,
while the home and security unit may be worth $3.9 billion,
according to Lane.  Fortune’s history extends back to the 1864 founding of its
predecessor by North Carolina farmer Washington Duke, according
to Hoover’s Inc. The company expanded into home products in the
1980s and added seven liquor brands from Seagram in 1991. It has
owned the Jim Beam distillery since the 1960s and exited tobacco
in the 1990s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  