-- 
Africa Investors Lose ‘Lunatic’ Tab as Rising Wealth Attracts Mainstream

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n ,   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-05-06T12:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/africa-investors-lose-lunatic-tab-as-rising-wealth-attracts-mainstream.html
Booming demand for its minerals and
improved governance mean  Africa  is beginning to attract
mainstream investors, delegates to the World Economic Forum in
Africa said this week, highlighting a turnaround in the
continent’s fortunes.  “We feel the pulse of African business from the ground
up,” Simon Harford, a partner at Actis Capital LLP, a private
equity firm with $1.5 billion of assets in 18 African countries,
said in an interview at the conference in  Cape Town  today. “We
felt at times rather out on the frontier. Now Africa is more
mainstream. We’re not getting questioned about whether or not
we’re lunatics for investing.”  The three-day meeting, the 21st held by the Geneva-based
World Economic Forum on Africa, brought together more than 900
business and government leaders. The  International Monetary Fund 
estimates sub-Saharan Africa’s economy will expand 5.5 percent
this year and 5.9 percent in 2012, and that seven of the world’s
10 fastest-growing economies over the next five years will come
from the region.  “Discussion of Africa’s potential is now per se,” South
African Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies said in an
interview. “Africa has clearly been identified as part of the
growth story of the world.”  Africa’s population reached 1 billion last year and after
economic growth averaging 4.9 percent from 2000 to 2008, the
number of families with an income of more than $20,000 a year
has exceeded  India ’s, according to a report by McKinsey & Co.
Inc. With  China  investing in African mineral and infrastructure
projects and the continent’s population rising by more than 2
percent a year, that market is set to expand.  No One-Off  “Across the continent there are countries that are on the
move,” Hannah Tetteh,  Ghana ’s minister of trade and industry,
said in an interview. “That is not just a one-off thing because
they have been experiencing consistent economic growth. People’s
living standards have changed as a result.”  Even so, the continent remains overly reliant on minerals,
which account for more than 80 percent of exports, and suffers
from “poor-quality” growth that often does not translate into
poverty reduction, the Africa Progress Panel, a grouping that
seeks to promote development on the continent, said in a report
released at the forum yesterday. It highlighted that trade
between African countries accounted for less than 10 percent of
the continent’s total commerce.  Making the Transition  “There’s no reason to believe that Africa can’t make the
transition from a commodity boom to building solid foundations
for sustainable growth,” Robert Greenhill, the  World Economic
Forum ’s managing director, said in an interview.  Actis sees investment potential in financial services,
consumer businesses, real estate and infrastructure, Harford
said.  “Africa has a lot of opportunities,”  Aliko Dangote ,
chairman of Dangote Cement Plc,  Nigeria ’s biggest company by
market value, said in an interview. “The only thing we have to
do is sit down and harness those opportunities. Aside from the
few issues in North Africa, things are much, much better. You
have less corrupt leaders, we are having elections all over the
place. I’m not saying we’re 100 percent there, but we’re getting
there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 