-- 
Abhisit Moves to Call Early Election in Test for Thai Stability After Coup

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-05-06T09:48:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/thai-premier-abhisit-says-he-will-seek-king-s-endorsement-for-elections.html
Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva 
sought a royal decree today to dissolve parliament, paving the
way for an election that will test political stability in a
nation beset by protests since a 2006 coup.  “This is the way to make the country move forward,”
Abhisit told reporters in Bangkok today. “I am confident there
won’t be any legal problems,” he said. The constitution gives
the king the power to dissolve parliament, with his decree
specifying an election date within 45 to 60 days.  Abhisit is aiming to win his party’s first popular mandate
since 1992, counting on an economic recovery that’s made the
main Thai stock index the No. 3 performer among  Asia ’s biggest
markets in the past year. His main challenge will come from a
party linked to exiled former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra , who was
ousted by the military in 2006. Disputes over the last election
in 2007 triggered demonstrations that claimed about 100 lives.  The election may take place any day between June 26 and
July 3, the Bangkok Post  reported , citing Election Commissioner
Prapan Naigowit.  The move by Abhisit, 46, comes seven months ahead of
schedule, amid concern rising food and fuel costs may threaten
his chances of returning to power. The government has capped
diesel prices at 30 baht (99 U.S. cents) per liter and
controlled prices of goods like eggs and pork to shield
Thailand’s 66 million people from inflation.  Missed Chance  “If he waits six months, the economy won’t get better,
inflation will more likely get worse and the Red Shirts may get
even more aggressive,” said Supavud Saicheua, managing director
of Phatra Securities Pcl,  Thailand ’s second-biggest brokerage by
market value, referring to Thaksin’s supporters. Abhisit would
have had a “much, much greater” chance of winning if the
election were held late last year, he said.  The SET Index fell the most in Asia, where shares declined
on concern that U.S. job growth may slow and after a slide in
global commodity prices. The index was down 2.2 percent at
1049.89 as of 4:22 p.m. in Bangkok, heading for the biggest drop
since January 24. The baht fell 0.3 percent to 30.22 per dollar,
the lowest since April 4.  Parties linked to Thaksin, who built what became Thailand’s
biggest mobile phone company and garnered political support
through efforts to aid poorer households in the north, have won
the past four nationwide votes. Their longest stint in power
after the past three contests was 18 months, with
administrations cut short by legal challenges and the 2006 coup.  Red Versus Yellow  Thaksin’s opponents dressed in yellow shirts seized
Bangkok’s airports in 2008 to oust his allies, and his red-
shirted supporters rallied against Abhisit since he took office
in a 2008 parliamentary vote.  “We see the election in Thailand as a negative for the
baht given the uncertain outcome and the risk that it could lead
to prolonged political conflict,” Standard Chartered Plc
analysts including Tai Hui wrote in a May 3 note.  The internal polls of the pro-Thaksin Puea Thai party show
it may win more than 260 seats in the  House of Representatives 
out of 500, allowing it to form a government on its own, the
Nation  reported  on April 20. Surveys from Abhisit’s Democrat
party and main coalition partner Bhum Jai Thai show them
combining to win more than that, it said.  “It’s a very tight race,” Korbsak Sabhavasu, a former
deputy prime minister helping to coordinate the campaign for
Abhisit’s party, said in an interview April 29. “One time we
are down, one time we are up. We can’t tell.”  Multiple Constitutions  Since 1946, when  King Bhumibol Adulyadej  took the Thai
throne as an 18-year-old, Thailand has seen nine coups and more
than 20 prime ministers. Only two of 17 constitutions since
absolute monarchy ended in 1932 have mandated parliaments that
are entirely elected. The king, who is revered across the nation
with portraits hung in homes and shops, has been in the hospital
since Sept. 19, 2009.  Abhisit pledged in February to raise the minimum wage by 25
percent over two years and boost civil service pay if elected,
adding to increases that took effect in April. His government
has distributed cash to the elderly and made crop-price
guarantees to win over the poorer northern voters underpinning
support for Thaksin, who has lived abroad since fleeing a jail
sentence for abuse of power in 2008.  Thailand’s central bank raised  interest rates  on April 20
for the sixth time in a year to quell inflation, which has been
stoked in part by the 26 percent surge in crude oil costs over
the past year. Consumer prices, which climbed the most in 15
months in April, may jump as much as one percentage point once
the government removes oil subsidies, Bank of Thailand Governor
Prasarn Trairatvorakul said April 12.  Oil’s Impact  High  oil prices  may also slow growth in  Southeast Asia ’s
second-biggest economy. Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said
last month that the expansion rate may ease to 4.2 percent in
2011, less than a previous estimate of 4.5 percent and the 7.8
percent pace recorded last year.  The economic rebound has helped fuel a gain of about 34
percent in the SET Index over the past 12 months, the third best
performance among Asia’s 15 biggest markets after  Indonesia  and
the  Philippines .  True Corp., the country’s third-biggest mobile phone
company, has advanced 500 percent since Abhisit took power in
2008, while  Sino-Thai Engineering & Construction Pcl (STEC) , founded by
Chavarat Charnvirakul, the leader of Abhisit’s main coalition
partner Bhum Jai Thai, has gained 545 percent.  ‘Less Risk’  “Overseas investors assume the current ruling party would
continue to stay in the cabinet after the election, which means
much less risk of protests,” said Takahide Irimura, head of
emerging-market research in  Tokyo  at Kokusai Asset Management
Co., which has about $57 billion of assets. “We may see a
temporary sell-off” if Puea Thai wins, he said.  The military’s ouster of Thaksin led to a new constitution
that empowers appointed judges, soldiers and bureaucrats at the
expense of elected politicians. Supporters of both groups have
held competing street rallies in Bangkok since then, with the
military twice dispersing Thaksin’s supporters while declining
to crack down on his yellow-shirted opponents.  “There’s no chance that a Puea Thai plurality and effort
to form a government would be accepted by the yellow shirts and
the army,” said Michael Montesano, a visiting research fellow
at the Institute of Southeast Asia Studies in  Singapore .
“Either a judicial or military coup is the most likely
outcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  