-- 
Benmosche Cites Tax Assets in Plan to Repurchase AIG Shares

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-05-06T20:13:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/aig-s-benmosche-cites-tax-assets-for-vision-to-repurchase-insurer-s-shares.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the
bailed-out U.S. insurer, said the company’s tax assets will
reduce future payments to the government and help the firm buy
back shares.  AIG’s more than $20 billion in deferred tax assets will be
a “source of funds” when the company is prepared to repurchase
stock, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  told analysts
and investors today on a conference call discussing the New
York-based company’s first-quarter results.  “We will not be paying very much tax,” Chief Financial
Officer David Herzog said on the call. “We have very large
deferred tax assets.”  Benmosche, 66, is touting AIG’s prospects as the insurer
seeks to replace the U.S. Treasury Department’s 92 percent stake
with private capital in share offerings beginning this year. AIG
outlined “aspirational goals” in a regulatory filing yesterday
including generating as much as $30 billion in deployable
capital through the end of 2015 for buybacks, dividends,
acquisitions or investments in its subsidiaries.  AIG’s tax assets stem from operating and capital losses as
well as foreign credits, according to a  presentation  on the
company’s website. AIG posted more than $100 billion of net
losses in the two years ended Dec. 31, 2009, and accumulated
additional costs repaying part of its bailout. The company had
about $25.6 billion of the assets available as of Dec. 31 to
offset future tax obligations, according to the presentation.  ‘Within the Pale’  “If it’s within the pale of U.S. legality and tax code,
they should do it,” said  Clark Troy , a senior analyst based in
 Chapel Hill ,  North Carolina , for Aite Group. “AIG has the best
tax accountants and advisory services at its disposal. If they
can do that, then go right on.”  AIG slipped 9 cents to $30.70 at 4:01 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. The company has dropped about
36 percent this year, the biggest decline in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Benmosche said today that AIG may raise $3 billion of
primary capital by selling shares to show that the company is
“very strong going forward.” AIG tapped the capital markets
last year, selling $2 billion of bonds in its first offering
since the 2008 bailout. The insurer also garnered $4.3 billion
in bank credit lines in December.  Benmosche didn’t outline a timetable for when the company
may repurchase stock, nor say how much AIG plans to buy.  Share Decline  AIG last announced share buybacks in November 2007, when it
disclosed an authorization to purchase $8 billion in stock. The
company halted further buybacks three months later, when it
announced the biggest quarterly loss in its history to that
date. The shares have fallen more than 90 percent since then.  First-quarter net income dropped to $269 million from $1.78
billion a year earlier, as costs tied to repaying its rescue and
claims from earthquakes in  Japan  and  New Zealand  weighed on
results, AIG said yesterday in a statement.  AIG was first rescued in September 2008 after losses on
housing-market bets by the Financial Products unit. The rescue
was revised at least four times, swelling to $182.3 billion, to
extend more credit and lower the interest charged.  The insurer repaid the last $21 billion it owed the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  on Jan. 14. Treasury converted its
preferred stake into common stock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  