-- 
Air India Works to Restore Normal Schedule After 10-Day Pilot Strike Ends

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   D o n n a   A l v a r a d o
-- 
2011-05-06T18:31:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/air-india-pilots-call-off-10-day-strike-that-crippled-carrier-s-operations.html
Air India  Ltd. planned to return to
regular schedules after pilots ended a 10-day walkout that
crippled the state-owned airline’s operations and hindered
efforts to regain profitability after four years of losses.  “The effort is now on to normalize operations,” said
Kamaljeet Rattan, an Air India spokesman, in a telephone
interview yesterday. “The pilots will return to work
immediately.”  Members of the Indian Commercial Pilots Association,
representing Air India employees who once worked at Indian
Airlines, started the strike on April 27 to demand pay parity
with colleagues. Indian Airlines merged with Air India in 2007.  The pilots’ group will regain the recognition that Air
India withdrew after the strike began, Bloomberg UTV reported,
citing Civil Aviation Minister Vayalar Ravi. The association
members who had been fired after the strike began would also be
rehired, the channel reported.  Air India canceled more than 1,000 flights because of the
strike, which cost it 200 million rupees ($4.46 million) a day
in lost sales, Rattan said. Ticket sales at  Kingfisher Airlines
Ltd. (KAIR) , the nation’s second-largest domestic carrier by market
share, rose after the strike, Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Aggarwal said.  The walkout by more than 700 pilots came as Air India held
talks with 20 banks on restructuring loans to pare borrowing
costs. The debt-reduction plan will need to be reviewed because
of strike losses, said Rakesh Sethi, an executive director at
Punjab National Bank, one of the carrier’s lenders.  Air India had a loss of 34.5 billion rupees in the first
half of the last financial year, Civil Aviation Minister Vayalar
Ravi told Parliament in March. That followed a loss of 55.5
billion rupees the previous 12 months, he said. 