-- 
Aker Solutions Can’t Expect to Maintain Order Intake, CEO Says

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-05-06T12:12:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/aker-solutions-can-t-expect-to-maintain-order-intake-ceo-says.html
Aker Solutions ASA (AKSO)  is unlikely to
maintain the same pace of order as the 17 billion kroner ($3.1
billion) it garnered in the first quarter, acting Chief
Executive Officer Oeyvind Eriksen said.  Norway’s biggest maker of oil platforms rose in Oslo after
its first-quarter profit and orders exceeded analyst estimates.
Orders were the highest since the second quarter of 2009.  Eriksen spoke today in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in Oslo.  On the outlook for orders going forward:  “We experience continued high tendering activity and that’s
the best indication we have that the possibilities to maintain a
high order intake are there. The level of the order intake will
fluctuate from quarter to quarter and it can’t be expected that
we’ll be able to bring in 17 billion kroner worth of new orders
every quarter.  “The trend from the first quarter has continued into the
second quarter.”  On meeting a target for 50 percent market share in drilling
technology:  “We need to enhance our efforts to win more contracts
compared to what we achieved in the first quarter. We need to be
patient in awaiting the results of our work and not get bogged
down in quarterly fluctuations.” Eriksen said at an earnings
presentation that the company was “more behind than expected”
in reaching its target and that it had lost market share.  On appointing a chief executive officer:  “We’ve spoken with several candidates.”  “Aker Solutions works well today thanks to our many
talented employees. But it’s one of our many priorities in the
development of the company.”  He declined to give a time-frame for when a new chief will
be appointed. Former CEO Simen Lieungh stepped down in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  