-- 
Al-Qaeda Confirms Bin Laden’s Death, Threatens Retaliatory Attack on U.S.

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r ,   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-05-06T17:39:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/al-qaeda-confirms-bin-laden-s-death-threatens-retaliatory-attack-on-u-s-.html
Al-Qaeda confirmed the death of Osama  bin Laden  and threatened to retaliate “soon” against the U.S.  Bin Laden’s blood “is too valuable to us and to every
Muslim to let it go in vain,” said a statement attributed to
al-Qaeda, dated May 3 and posted on websites that have carried
confirmed jihadist statements in the past.  “We will continue to hunt the Americans and their
operatives inside and outside their country,” the group said.
“Soon by God’s help, their happiness will be turned to grief
and their tears will be mixed with their blood.”  Security was heightened across the U.S. and at government
installations worldwide following President  Barack Obama ’s
announcement on May 1 that the al-Qaeda leader had been killed.  U.S. officials, including Central Intelligence Agency
Director Leon Panetta, have warned about possible retaliatory
attacks. Attorney General  Eric Holder  held a conference call
with U.S. attorneys this week to ensure law enforcement
officials are “on their toes,” he said at a Senate Judiciary
Committee hearing on May 4.  Bin Laden, the instigator of the Sept. 11 attacks in  New
York  and Washington, was shot dead in a raid by U.S. commandos
on his compound in Abbottabad, an army headquarters town 50
kilometers (30 miles) from the Pakistani capital, Islamabad.  ‘Highly Vigilant’  Obama was informed of the latest al-Qaeda threats, White
House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters on Air Force
One. Obama today is traveling to Fort Campbell,  Kentucky , where
the president will meet one of the special forces units that
helped carry out the assault on bin Laden’s compound.  “We’re quite aware of the potential for activity and are
highly vigilant on that matter for that reason,” Carney said.  He also said that al-Qaeda’s statement helps prove “the
obvious, which is that  Osama bin Laden  was killed on Sunday
night by U.S. forces.”  The U.S. commandos retrieved a trove of intelligence
material from the raid, including computers, storage media and
documents that showed bin Laden helped to guide the tactics,
strategy and operations of al-Qaeda while holed up in his
compound in Pakistan, a U.S. official said.  The discovery contradicts the previous view of intelligence
officials who had thought that U.S. efforts to track down bin
Laden had forced him to stay out of touch with the group.  Access to Technology  Michael Scheuer, who led the CIA’s hunt for bin Laden in
the 1990s, said U.S. officials, including Obama and former
President  George W. Bush , underestimated the access bin Laden
had to technology enabling him to communicate with others.  “If Mr. Bush had walked through a Radio Shack in the past
20 years, he would have been less confident that bin Laden was
isolated,” he said in an interview.  Among the items found in the compound was a notebook
showing that the terrorist group in February 2010 was
considering attacks on American railroads, a second U.S.
official said.  The train plot was envisioned to mark the 10th anniversary
of the Sept. 11, 2011, assault, according to another U.S.
official who declined to be identified.  That prompted the U.S.  Department of Homeland Security  to
issue an alert to local law enforcement officials about a
potential threat.  Intelligence analysts are sifting through the materials,
searching for evidence of immediate threats and locations of al-
Qaeda members, Scheuer said.  Follow-Through Operations  “Primarily what they’re doing is racing to conduct follow-
up operations to hurt al-Qaeda as much as possible,” he said.  Whenever the U.S. gets information from al-Qaeda, it’s the
group’s practice to assume operations have been compromised and
shut down as quickly as possible safe houses, and change e-mail
addresses and cell phones, he said.  The al-Qaeda statement called on Pakistanis to “cleanse”
their country of Americans. “We invite the Muslim people of
 Pakistan , whose soil Osama was killed on, to rise and revolt to
wash away this shame brought upon them by a group of traitors.”  Al-Qaeda will survive its leader’s killing because “Sheikh
Osama did not build an organization that would die with his
death,” according to the statement. The group said it will soon
release an audio tape made by bin Laden a week before he was
killed “congratulating” Muslims on the recent revolutions in
the Middle East.  Muslim Funeral  The statement ends with a warning to the U.S. against
defiling the body of Bin Laden, suggesting it was written before
the U.S. government said his corpse had been weighted down and
released into the  Arabian Sea  following a Muslim funeral ritual
performed aboard a ship by military officers.  “We warn the Americans of any tampering with the body of
the sheik or subjecting him or any members of his family to any
inappropriate treatment,” it said.  Obama said on May 4 that the U.S. won’t release any
photographs of Bin Laden’s death because such images shouldn’t
be exploited as “trophies,” following calls for them to be
published to confirm the al-Qaeda leader’s death. White House
officials said his identity was confirmed through photographic
comparisons, DNA and other means, including verification by his
wife at the compound.  In  Egypt , thousands of Salafis, followers of an
ultraconservative form of Islam, marched to the U.S. Embassy in
Cairo to protest bin Laden’s killing, the state-run Middle East
 News Agency  reported today. They denounced Obama and called for
“punishment,” MENA said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  