-- 
Alcatel-Lucent Loss Narrows; Shares Drop on U.S. Dependence

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-06T15:47:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/alcatel-lucent-first-quarter-loss-10-million-euros.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA’s first-quarter loss
narrowed as sales surged in  North America . The stock dropped as
analysts said  France ’s largest telecommunications equipment
maker needs to improve revenue growth in other markets.  The net loss was 10 million euros ($14.6 million), compared
with a 515 million-euro loss a year earlier, the Paris-based
company said in an e-mailed statement today.  Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen is nearing the end of
a three-year plan to return Alcatel-Lucent to consistent profit
this year. The company’s shares have doubled in 2011 on new
contracts as mobile-phone companies upgrade their networks on
demand for phones that allow users to surf the Web and download
music and films.  Alcatel-Lucent’s results may show an overdependence on
North America for growth that isn’t sustainable, said  Pierre Ferragu , an analyst at  Sanford Bernstein  in  London . The
company’s competitors “are doing much better outside of North
America,” he said.  Alcatel’s European sales fell 1.8 percent in the quarter.
Rival Ericsson AB, the world’s largest network supplier, last
month said sales in northern  Europe  and central  Asia  climbed 46
percent in the same period, while revenue in western and central
Europe declined 8 percent. In China and  India , Ericsson’s
revenue rose by 74 percent and 38 percent respectively.  Market Underpinnings  Shares dropped 1.9 percent in Paris trading, giving the
company a market value of 9.8 billion euros.  The company predicts the current momentum will continue on
“strong market underpinnings,” Chief Financial Officer Paul Tufano said in a Bloomberg TV interview.  First-quarter sales rose 15 percent to 3.74 billion euros,
led by a 40 percent rise in North America to 1.6 billion euros,
where Alcatel is working on fourth-generation wireless networks
for clients including  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   “The strength in the first quarter was really from
wireless in the U.S., and that came through in the results,”
said Thomas Langer, an analyst at WestLB in Dusseldorf.  Alcatel-Lucent posted an adjusted operating profit of 13
million euros after a 195 million-euro loss a year earlier.  ‘Normal’ Company  “I think we are on our way to becoming a normal company by
the end of this year,” Verwaayen said on a conference call. The
CEO confirmed the company’s full-year outlook.  Alcatel’s adjusted operating profit will be a key indicator
of Verwaayen’s success in the quarter, with a positive result
“a possible indicator of a real turnaround,” WestLB’s Langer
said before the release.  Telecommunications suppliers are vying for market share as
mobile-phone operators upgrade their networks to deal with the
data demands of devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone. Smartphone
shipments will rise 49 percent worldwide this year, led by
phones running Google Inc.’s Android operating system, market
researcher IDC predicted in March.  Ericsson last month reported a tripling of first-quarter
profit as sales rose 17 percent. Huawei Technologies Co.,
 China ’s largest phone-network equipment maker, said on April 27
that it aims to more than triple annual sales to about $100
billion in the next five to ten years.  Verwaayen, who has pledged to restore Alcatel to consistent
profitability by the end of this year, has shed units including
the company’s vacuum technology business, which it sold for 200
million euros last year.  The company is considering options including an initial
public offering for its enterprise telecommunications
operations, people familiar with the plans said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  