-- 
Ambac, Bankrupt Bond Insurer, Settles Subprime Assets Suit

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-05-06T23:45:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/ambac-bankrupt-bond-insurer-settles-subprime-assets-suit-1-.html
Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , the
bankrupt holding company for a failed bond insurer, agreed to
set aside $27.1 million to resolve a 2008 lawsuit claiming it
misled shareholders about risks linked to subprime securities,
according to a court filing.  Investors alleged that Ambac issued misleading statements
about its financial results related to insurance for
collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, according to a class-
action, or group, complaint, filed in January 2008, in federal
court in Manhattan. Ambac issued insurance on CDOs including
those backed by subprime mortgages.  There is no admission of wrongdoing in the settlement,
according to a court filing today.  The plaintiffs include Public School Teachers’ Pension &
Retirement Fund of  Chicago , Arkansas Teacher Retirement System,
Public Employees’ Retirement System of  Mississippi  and Painting
Industry Insurance and Annuity Funds, according to court papers.  Among Ambac’s codefendants are underwriters of the
syndication of Ambac’s debt, including Citigroup Global Markets
Inc., UBS Securities LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner, & Smith Inc., and Wachovia Capital Markets LLC.  Ambac previously paid $2.5 million into an escrow account
under a related agreement, according to court documents.  Ambac, reorganizing under Chapter 11 in U.S. Bankruptcy
court, has yet to file a plan of how it intends to restructure.  The case is In re  Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABK)  Securities
Litigation, 08-cv-00411, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 