-- 
Angels Shut Out Red Sox, Yankees Lose Third Straight, Mets Beat Giants

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-05-06T07:55:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/angels-shut-out-red-sox-yankees-lose-third-straight-mets-beat-giants.html
The  Boston   Red Sox  were shut out 11-0
by the Los Angeles Angels, the  New York Yankees  lost their third
straight game to the Detroit Tigers, while the  New York Mets 
beat the  San Francisco Giants  5-2.  Boston’s John Lackey (2-4) gave up eight runs on 10 hits in
four innings to leave his earned run average at 7.16 as the Red
Sox dropped to 14-17 in Major League Baseball.  “There’s a sense of me needing to pitch well to get some
momentum going,” Lackey told reporters at Fenway Park in
Boston. “If I would have pitched better early on, I think our
guys might have found a little more energy.”  Mark Trumbo hit his sixth homer of the season and Bobby Abreu drove in three runs for  Los Angeles , which split the four-
game series with the Red Sox to advance to 18-14 this season.  Joel Pineiro (1-0) got his first win of the season,
allowing three hits and four walks while striking out two in 5
2/3 innings.  At Citi Field in New York, Mike Pelfrey (2-3) allowed one
earned run on four hits while striking out five and walking two
over 7 2/3 innings.  Jonathan Sanchez  (2-2) took the loss for the
Giants (15-16), allowing five earned runs in five innings, with
six strikeouts and six walks.  Beltran’s Fifth Homer  The Mets (13-18) got three runs in the second inning. Ronny Paulino hit into a double play that knocked in Jason Bay and
Sanchez then walked Scott Hairston and Pelfrey, New York’s
eighth and ninth batters, who scored when Jose Reyes tripled to
center field.  The first Giants’ hit came in the fourth inning, an upper-
deck home run to right field by shortstop Mike Fontenot.  Beltran added his fifth home run of the season in the fifth
inning.  At Comerica Park in  Detroit , the Tigers scored three runs
in the bottom of the seventh inning to snap a 2-2 tie before
going on to beat the Yankees 6-3.  Brandon Inge hit a sacrifice fly off losing pitcher A.J. Burnett to give Detroit the lead and the Tigers scored two more
runs on a throwing error by shortstop Eduardo Nunez, who started
in place of  Derek Jeter .  “He’s a kid that’s exciting when he’s on the base paths,
and he’s shown that he’s got some pop in his bat, and he can do
some things offensively,” Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said of
Nunez. “He’s struggling a little bit right now throwing, and
it’s something we have to get him through.”  Brennan Boesch drove in the other three runs for the Tigers
(15-17), who won the final three games of the four-game series.  Nunez and Eric Chavez each drove in a run for  New York  (17-
12), which has scored four runs over the last three games.  In the  American League , it was Tampa Bay 3, Toronto 1;
Kansas City 9, Baltimore 1; and Cleveland 4, Oakland 3 (12
innings).  Also last night in the National League, it was Cincinnati
10, Houston 4; St. Louis 6, Florida 3; Atlanta 2, Milwaukee 1;
Philadelphia 7, Washington 3 and Arizona 3, Colorado 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 