-- 
Tap Aims to Sell Ghana Stake, Focus on Australia, Thailand

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-05-06T06:46:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/tap-oil-in-talks-over-selling-its-stake-in-exploration-well-offshore-ghana.html
Tap Oil Ltd. (TAP) , an oil and gas explorer
focusing on Thailand and Western  Australia , said it has begun
talks to sell a stake in its exploration project off  Ghana  and
“all of its assets are for sale at the right price.”  Tap is considering cutting its interest in the block off
Ghana’s capital, Accra, to as low as 10 percent from 40 percent,
while also pursuing a buyer for its 39 percent stake in a Brunei
oil and gas project, Troy Hayden, chief executive officer of the
Perth-based company, said in a phone interview today.  “There’s a fair bit of interest” in the area of the Ghana
permit, near  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) ’s Jubilee oil discovery, said Hayden,
a former  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  executive who started as CEO of
Tap in December. “It’s not a bad address to be in, and we’re
going to turn out to be an Asian, Australian-focused company.”  Tap, which fell 26 percent in Sydney trading last year,
aims to increase its value and counter declining output by
concentrating on developing prospects in areas such as
Australia’s Carnarvon Basin and the Gulf of Thailand and
disposing of other assets.  A decision to proceed with the  Manora oil project  off
Thailand, operated by Pearl Energy Ltd., could be made by the
end of this year, compared with a prior target of the first half
of 2012, Hayden said. Tap expects it will spend A$50 million
($54 million) to A$60 million to develop the Manora venture
through early 2014, when production is due to begin, he said.  “Our existing assets have been great producers while
they’ve lasted, but they are in decline, so we need to replace
some of that production and  Thailand  is going to do that,”
Hayden said. “We want to get after things, and that means
getting some of these decision points reached earlier.”  Australian LNG  Tap is likely to finance all of the Thai project costs with
debt and expects it will be able to meet its 2011 spending
requirements with its A$63 million in cash, he said.  Tap, whose shares have risen 12 percent since Hayden
started Dec. 1, fell 4.7 percent to 91 Australian cents today.
The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.2 percent.  “Tap needs to monetize assets,” according to Hayden. “We
can’t just sit on them. We need to keep things moving.”  Tap agreed to sell 25 percent of the WA-351-P exploration
permit in the Carnarvon Basin to Japan Australia LNG Pty for
$30.2 million, lowering its stake to 20 percent, the Australian
company said May 4. The transaction follows Tap’s acquisition of
a further 20 percent stake in the permit for $15.8 million.  Japanese Venture  Tap and partner  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  plan to drill an
exploration well in the first quarter of next year, quicker than
previously anticipated, he said. Their first well may cost as
much as A$60 million, Hayden said. The Japanese venture, between
Mitsui & Co. and Mitsubishi Corp., agreed to pay as much as $10
million of Tap’s share of the well cost, Tap said on May 4.  Tap may sell more of the venture, which has the potential
to feed a liquefied natural gas project in  Western Australia 
such as the proposed expansion of Woodside’s Pluto project or
the Wheatstone and Gorgon ventures led by  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , he said.  Tap reported a gas discovery at the  Apache Corp (APA) .-operated
Zola-1 well in the Carnarvon Basin in February. While the cost
of the rig for Zola was A$1 million a day over a 120-day period,
Tap hasn’t yet calculated the final cost, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 