-- 
Apple Starts Selling IPad2 in China as Lenovo Contests With LePad Tablet

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-06T06:08:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/apple-starts-ipad2-sales-in-china-as-lenovo-contests-with-lepad.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  started selling the latest
version of its iPad tablet computer in China, as the world’s
most valuable technology company fends off competition from
products offered by local rivals including  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)   Hundreds of people waited in line outside Apple’s store in
Shanghai’s Lujiazui financial district before the 8 a.m. opening
time. The store sold out of the white-colored version of iPad2
with 16 gigabytes of memory within hours, according to a check
by Bloomberg News.  Apple is offering the iPad2 in China, home to its highest-
grossing stores worldwide, as demand in the U.S. for the
upgraded product surpassed the first version since its debut in
March. The Cupertino, California-based company faces increasing
competition in  China  from local vendors of smartphones and
tablets including Lenovo and  ZTE Corp. (763) , according to Shan Chao,
an analyst at BDA China, which advises companies.  “They previously had the market all to themselves, but now
rival products have sprung up,” Shan said by telephone from
Beijing today. “The new upgrades will help Apple, which is
already leading local products in terms of technology.”  The new iPad, which comes in white and black, is lighter,
thinner, includes a more powerful processor and front and rear
cameras, and sells from 3,688 yuan ($568), according to Apple’s
China website.  Apple’s stores in China generate, on average, the highest
traffic and highest revenue of any company stores in the world,
Chief Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  said on a Jan. 18
earnings call.  ‘Amazing’ Demand  “We’re working hard to get the iPad2 into the hands of
every customer who wants one as quickly as possible,” said
Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based spokeswoman at Apple. Demand for the
iPad2 “has been amazing,” she said.  Lenovo, China’s biggest maker of personal-computers,
started selling its LePad tablet computer in the country in
March. The company will use “better knowledge” of the Chinese
market to win sales from competitors such as Apple, Chairman Liu Chuanzhi said that month. Prices for the LePad start from 3,499
yuan, according to its website.  ZTE, China’s second-biggest maker of telephone equipment,
said last month it aims to sell a combined 12 million
smartphones and tablet computers this year.  Apple expanded sales of the latest iPad to Asian markets
including  Japan ,  India ,  Hong Kong  and Singapore last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Conley in Shanghai at 
 mconley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  