-- 
Stan Kroenke Pledges Not Use Arsenal Funds to Pay for Premier Soccer Team

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-06T15:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/arsenal-bidder-kroenke-pledges-not-use-team-funds-to-pay-for-club-takeover.html
Stan Kroenke, the owner of National
Football League and the  National Basketball Association  teams,
said he won’t take out debt against Arsenal  soccer club  to fund
his proposed takeover of the English Premier League team.  Kroenke today submitted the offer document for the
mandatory takeover bid triggered last week when he boosted his
stake in the club to 63 percent by agreeing to buy 16 percent
stakes of former directors Danny Fiszman and Nina Bracewell-
Smith.  Arsenal fans wanted Kroenke to pledge that he wouldn’t pay
for the 13-time English champion the way the U.S.-based Glazer
family bought  Manchester United  in 2005 and  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett  acquired Liverpool. Both groups angered fans by using
funds from their newly acquired Premier League teams to repay
interest payments on takeover finance.  “The offer will not be funded by way of any debt finance
for which the payment of interest on, repayment of or security
for any liability will depend on the business of  Arsenal ,” said
a note in  the offer document  released by KSE, UK Inc., the
company used by Kroenke to buy the team.  Kroenke said he’ll respect the club’s current structure by
pursuing its so-called “self-sustaining” model. He’s also said
the club would remain listed on the PLUS stock exchange even if
he acquires sufficient shares to take it off the market.
Arsenal’s second largest shareholder Alisher Usmanov, who holds
27.1 percent of the club, said he won’t sell his holding.  The purchase price of 11,750 pounds a share values the club
at about 731 million pounds ($1.2 billion). Kroenke, who started
investing in Arsenal in 2007, is being advised by Deutsche Bank
AG. The property developer also owns the National Basketball
Association’s Denver Nuggets, the  St. Louis Rams  of the  National
Football League , the National Hockey League’s Colorado Avalanche
and Major League Soccer’s Colorado Rapids.  Kroenke said he would continue to meet with the club’s
supporters after the transaction is completed.  “He recognizes that fans are at the heart of the club,”
the offer document said. “Their opinions and involvement are
important to him. Mr. Kroenke fully expects himself, the Arsenal
directors and club executives to continue to engage with
supporters for the long-term good of the club.”  The Arsenal Supporters Trust, which has met with Kroenke,
reiterated that it planned to keep its holdings and urged other
shareholders “to reject this offer.” The AST and other fans
have complained about the 6.5 percent ticket increase Arsenal
plans for next season.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  