-- 
Asia Behind Latin America on Boosting Consumption, ADB Says

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-05-06T09:48:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/asia-behind-latin-america-on-boosting-consumption-adb-says.html
  Asian Development Bank  President
Haruhiko Kuroda said developing  Asia  is behind  Latin America  in
boosting consumption and urged policy makers to take steps to
reduce precautionary household savings.  “The region needs to deepen and broaden a more resilient
financial system to reduce household savings and encourage
consumption,” Kuroda said in Hanoi today, where the ADB is
holding its annual meetings. “Good social protection systems
are also needed to ease the pressure on Asian household to save.
These include pensions, insurance and unemployment subsidies.”  At stake: avoiding what the ADB called this week a
“middle-income trap,” where Asia fails to make the leap toward
developed-nation status that could bring 3 billion people on the
continent to European-level incomes by mid-century. Countries
from  China  to  Malaysia  have so far relied on a model of high
savings to help fund investment in export industries.  “A growth model which worked well for a low-income,
capital-scarce region will not work for a middle-income,
capital-abundant region,” Kuroda said.  Successful national and regional policies may boost Asia’s
gross domestic product to $148 trillion by mid-century, making
up 51 percent of global output in 2050, the ADB said this week.  In an alternative scenario, where countries such as China,
 India ,  Indonesia  and Vietnam see growth slow and others fail to
stoke their expansions, the region would account for 32 percent,
or $61 trillion, of global GDP in 2050, it said.  OECD Benchmark  “Developing Asia, as a whole, still lags behind the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development countries,
and even Latin American countries in this respect,” Kuroda said.  Asia can’t depend on external demand to boost growth as
developed economies are growing at a slower pace,  Naoyuki Shinohara , deputy managing director of the  International
Monetary Fund , said in Hanoi today.  “This two-speed growth will continue for the time being so
Asia cannot depend too much on external demand anymore to
sustain domestic momentum,” Shinohara said. “By strengthening
domestic social growth, it would lead to more inclusive growth.
Inclusive growth means we’ll have more power to fight against
poverty issues, more power to fight against income inequality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Hanoi at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  