-- 
Stocks Gain on Jobs Growth; Euro Falls on Greek Debt Concern

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-05-06T20:25:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/asian-stocks-drop-after-biggest-slump-in-commodities-since-2009-yen-falls.html
U.S. stocks rose, halting a four-day
slump for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as faster-than-
forecast growth in jobs bolstered optimism in the economy.
Equities trimmed gains as the euro and commodities fell amid
concern Greece may need to restructure its debt.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.4 percent to
1,340.20 at 4 p.m. in  New York  after surging as much as 1.4
percent. The euro decreased 1.3 percent to $1.4351, the lowest
since April 19. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities fell 0.8
percent and lost 11 percent over the past five days, its worst
weekly plunge in more than two years. Oil plunged 2.6 percent to
$97.18 a barrel and silver capped its worst week since 1975.  Stocks rallied in morning trading and commodities rebounded
from their worst tumble since 2009 after government data showed
the biggest increase in payrolls since May 2010. Equities pared
their advance, commodities turned lower and the euro plunged as
two European officials familiar with the matter said finance
officials were meeting in Luxembourg for unscheduled talks that
may focus on plans to restructure Greece’s debt.  “The jobs report showed that we are in an economic
recovery,” said Kevin Caron, a market strategist in  Florham
Park ,  New Jersey , at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which has about $110
billion in client assets. “We’re seeing decent profits. That’s
lifting stocks. Still, we’re seeing some knee-jerk reaction in
the  currency market . The dollar gets a bid as a haven when
there’s concern about risks. As investors bid the dollar, they
sell other things, like commodities and stocks.”  Earnings Season  The S&P 500 trimmed its weekly decline to 1.7 percent, its
worst since March. DuPont Co. and American Express Co. rose more
than 1.3 percent to help lead gains in 25 of 30 companies in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average . Kraft Foods Inc. rallied 2.1
percent after profit topped analysts’ estimates. Earnings have
exceeded projections at 73 percent of the 416 companies in the
 S&P 500  that posted results since April 11, Bloomberg data show.  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, dropped as much as 11 percent today before
concern about a potential Greek-debt restructuring drove the
measure up 1.1 percent to 18.40 amid renewed demand for options
to protect against losses in stocks. The VIX climbed 25 percent
this week, the most in a year.  Today’s advance in equities was triggered by Labor
Department data showing payrolls increased by 244,000 workers
last month and jobs growth in March and February was revised
higher. The growth in jobs exceeded the 185,000 median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Excluding government
jobs, employment jumped by 268,000, the most in five years. The
jobless rate rose to 9 percent, the first gain since November.  Canadian Stocks  The S&P/TSX Composite Index of stocks climbed 0.8 percent
in Toronto after Canada added almost three times more jobs than
economists forecast in April and the  unemployment rate  declined.
Employment rose by 58,300,  Statistics Canada  said. The jobless
rate fell to 7.6 percent from 7.7 percent. Economists forecast
no change in unemployment and 20,000 new jobs.  In  Europe ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Britain’s
biggest government-owned lender, rose 5.6 percent as Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  forecast a return to profit
this year. ThyssenKrupp AG, Germany’s largest steelmaker, jumped
8 percent on plans to sell or spin off units.  DnB NOR ASA (DNBNOR) , the
Nordic region’s second-largest bank, fell 5.3 percent after
profit declined. Belgacom SA sank 5.1 percent as the biggest
phone company in  Belgium  lowered its forecasts.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index decreased 0.1 percent to
the lowest level since March 30. Turkey’s benchmark stock index
fell 1.6 percent after Citigroup Inc. cut earnings estimates for
lenders, citing four central bank increases in  reserve
requirements  since December. India’s Sensitive Index gained 1.7
percent as this week’s drop in commodity prices eased inflation
concerns.  Asian stocks declined, with the regional benchmark index
erasing gains for the year, as yesterday’s reports of rising
jobless claims and declining consumer confidence in the U.S.
stoked concern the recovery in world’s biggest economy is
weakening.  Asia ’s trading session ended before today’s U.S. jobs
data. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 0.9 percent and is
down 0.1 percent in 2011.  Silver futures fell, capping the steepest weekly decline
since at least 1975, as an increase in margin requirements and
this week’s slump in commodities prompted investors to sell
precious metals. Silver for July delivery fell 2.6 percent to
$35.287 an ounce and sank 27 percent this week.  Gold Rebounds  Gold rebounded, trimming its biggest weekly drop in a year.
Gold for June delivery rose 0.7 percent to $1,491.60 an ounce
and lost 4.2 percent in the week.  Crude oil for June delivery fell $9.44, or 8.6 percent, to
$99.80 a barrel yesterday, and extended those losses today,
declining 2.6 percent to $97.18, the lowest close since March
15.  The killing of  Osama bin Laden  by U.S. forces in Pakistan
may have been the catalyst for this week’s rout in  oil prices 
that’s deflating commodity prices around the world.  The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond climbed four basis
points to 4.30 percent. Two-year note yields fell two basis
points to 0.56 percent.  The Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against six major
peers, rose 0.8 percent to 74.760 after yesterday surging 1.6
percent, the most since October.  The euro weakened versus all 16 major counterparts, losing
more than 2 percent versus the  Mexican peso ,  New Zealand dollar 
and Australian dollar. Greek two-year bond yields rose six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 25.339.  Greece  Talks  A German official said the discussions among European
finance officials would include a German paper on options for
confronting Greece’s growing debt load, which has spurred
speculation by investors that a restructuring was likely.  Earlier, Der Spiegel magazine reported that ministers are
convening an emergency meeting after Greece threatened to
withdraw from the euro region. Greece rejected the report,
according to a finance ministry statement. German Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s chief spokesman “categorically” denied that
any discussions on a Greek exit were under way. He declined to
comment when asked whether officials were meeting tonight.  A benchmark of U.S. corporate credit risk dropped for the
first time this week. The Markit CDX North America Investment
Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.3
basis point to a mid-price of 90.2 basis points, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Sales of corporate bonds worldwide climbed 57 percent to
$66.7 billion this week after totaling $43.8 billion in the
period ended April 29, the lowest weekly total this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  