-- 
Jaguar Plans to Introduce 200 Mile-An-Hour Hybrid Car Costing $1.2 Million

-- B y   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-05-06T12:03:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/tata-s-jaguar-to-produce-road-going-version-of-electric-supercar.html
Jaguar Land Rover, the luxury-car unit
of  India ’s  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , said it will begin production of
the C-X75, an electric supercar priced from 700,000 pounds ($1.2
million) and able to reach 60 miles per hour in three seconds.  “The C-X75 is absolutely at the forefront of technology,
it’s as good as you can get right now,” Tata Chief Executive
Officer Carl-Peter Forster said today at a press conference in
London. “For me it’s also proof that the automobile is not the
technology of the last century. It has a future.”  The hybrid model, which combines two electric motors with a
gasoline engine, will have a top speed higher than 200 mph and a
range of more than 50 kilometers (31 miles) using only electric
power, U.K.-based Jaguar Land Rover said today in a statement.  Jaguar follows  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Audi and Porsche SE in announcing plans for electric-powered
supercars. Sports car-makers are developing vehicles using
alternative forms of energy to lower their overall carbon
footprints as governments press them to adopt green technology.  The C-X75, first shown off as a concept car at last year’s
Paris Motor Show, will be developed with the British Formula 1
racing team Williams and offer performance on par with the
fastest production models currently available, Jaguar brand
chief  Adrian Hallmark  said at today’s press event.  U.S. Distribution  Only 250 C-X75s will initially be built, with production
running from 2013 through 2015. Expressions of interest will be
taken from prospective buyers starting today, with full
technical details to be released on Sept. 1, Jaguar Land Rover
CEO Ralf Speth said at the briefing.  The vehicle, which could cost as much as 900,000 pounds
depending on local taxes, will have “incredibly low” carbon
dioxide emissions of less than 99 grams per kilometer, he said.  Some C-X75s will be made available for purchase in the
U.S., Forster said, and it’s possible that the model may be
entered in races to help demonstrate its abilities.  BMW, the largest maker of luxury autos, is also building a
hybrid supercar, the i8, which will go on sale in 2013, the
Munich-based manufacturer said Nov. 5. Emissions will be the
same as for the Jaguar and equal to just 30 percent of the
company’s $100,000 M6 coupe, which has a similar acceleration.  Porsche plans to produce a 918 Spyder hybrid sports car,
the Stuttgart-based automaker, which is combining with
Volkswagen, has said, without specifying when the model will go
on sale or what the price will be.  VW’s Audi unit is building an all-electric supercar called
the E-tron based on the RB model, Josef Schlossmacher, a
spokesman for the Ingolstadt, Germany-based company said by
phone. It should be on the road within 18 months, he said.  Sales Boost  Tata Motors, India’s biggest maker of trucks and buses,
paid $2.4 billion to acquire Jaguar and the Land Rover sport-
utility vehicle brand from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in June 2008. The
company will invest 5 billion pounds in the U.K. in coming
years, CEO Forster said, without giving a timescale.  Sales of Jaguar and Land Rover models have surged as demand
for  luxury vehicles  rebounds from a collapse prompted by the
global recession. Mumbai-based Tata said last month that annual
vehicle sales for the U.K. business rose 25 percent to 241,573,
with Land Rover accounting for 78 percent of the total.  China  is the No. 1 growth market for Jaguar Land Rover,
Forster said in a Bloomberg TV interview. The U.S., the world’s
largest luxury-car market, is “recovering but not doing great.”  The unit last October reached a deal with unions to retain
all of its three U.K. plants after mulling a plan to consolidate
production to cut costs. The company will this year start
selling the new Evoque model, an SUV-coupe crossover vehicle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  