-- 
BASF Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates, Expects Sales Growth

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-05-06T08:48:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/basf-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-expects-sales-growth-1-.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest chemical
company, reported first-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates after a rebound in demand for chemicals, additives and
plastics used in products from cars to toothpaste.  Earnings before interest, tax and one-time items increased
to 2.73 billion euros ($3.9 billion) from 1.95 billion euros a
year earlier, BASF said today in a statement prior to its annual
shareholders meeting in  Mannheim ,  Germany . Analysts in a
Bloomberg survey predicted 2.6 billion euros.  BASF follows  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and DuPont Co. in reporting
earnings exceeding estimates as global chemical makers use their
dominance to push through price increases to offset spiraling
input costs. BASF also benefited from diversification. Juergen Hambrecht, who steps down as chief executive officer today,
spent more than 18 billion euros on acquisitions in his eight-
year tenure to expand into less-cyclical specialty chemicals.  “The good result in chemicals is especially pleasing,”
said Oliver Schwarz, an analyst at M.M. Warburg, who has a
“buy” rating on the stock. “Plastics performed much better
than expected.”  BASF fell 0.8 percent to 65.45 euros as of 9:41 a.m. in
Frankfurt trading. Before today the stock had gained 11 percent
this year, boosting the Ludwigshafen-based company’s market
value to 61 billion euros. Dow Chemical, the biggest U.S.
chemical maker, had increased 18 percent.  ‘Pricing Power’  Hambrecht’s replacement, Chief Financial Officer Kurt Bock,
said he’s sticking to a target of expanding BASF by 2 percentage
points faster than the overall chemical market.  Both the chemicals and the plastics division saw a 27
percent increase in first-quarter sales, with operating profit
jumping 66 percent and 41 percent respectively. Chemical makers
in the last couple of years have been showing more discipline in
pricing and capacity, said Bock. BASF’s “very good pricing
power” has continued into the second quarter and there is no
reason to be skeptical about margins at this point, Bock said.  Sales increased to 19.36 billion euros from 15.45 billion
euros, beating a 17.94 billion-euro analyst estimate. The
fastest revenue growth came from BASF’s performance products
unit making food and drug ingredients, which gained 39 percent.
The functional solutions business, which makes automotive and
industrial catalysts, increased revenue by 35 percent.  Sticking to Target  Net income more than doubled to 2.41 billion euros, boosted
by a gain of 887 million euros from the sale of a stake in
potash maker K+S AG. The company is also planning to sell some
fertilizer activities, including a nitrogen site in Antwerp,
 Belgium , and a share of a venture in  France . While the company
has had very positive feedback, it doesn’t expect to close the
sale this year, Bock said today.  The German chemical maker is targeting 90 billion euros in
annual revenue by 2020, corresponding to annual sales growth of
about 4 to 5 percent, which the company has “easily” generated
in the past, Bock said in a briefing on May 2.  This year should yield a “significant improvement in sales
and earnings,” BASF said, forecasting that it would earn a high
premium to its cost of capital, the measure the company uses to
help determine dividends.  “We have no reason to be more skeptical or cautious than
at the end of February,” Bock said.  Asian Spurt  The fastest growth will come from  Asia . In  China , BASF is
expanding a water-treatment and paper-chemicals plant at its
Nanjing site as well as building a $1.4 billion joint venture
plant with China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as Sinopec.  BASF’s outlook assumes no oil production in  Libya  this
year, it said today. The company’s oil and gas unit,
Wintershall, halted production at its eight  oil fields  in
February as a result of political unrest in the North African
country. As a result, the unit expects non-compensable oil
production taxes to decline by about 700 million euros, it said.  BASF has made acquisitions to boost growth, buying
moisturizer-ingredient maker Cognis last year for 3.1 billion
euros and Ciba, a maker of additives and dyes, for 3.45 billion
Swiss francs ($4 billion). The purchases fit the company’s
strategy of shifting business closer to the end customer with
less emphasis on upstream commodity chemicals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  