-- 
Belarus to Widen Ruble Band to Cope With Currency Shortage

-- B y   A l e x   K u d r y t s k i
-- 
2011-05-06T10:52:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/belarus-to-widen-ruble-band-to-cope-with-currency-shortage-1-.html
Belarus’s central bank will widen the
ruble trading corridor against its target basket, loosening
controls as the nation struggles to meet domestic demand for
foreign currency.  The currency will be allowed to fluctuate within 12 percent
of the value of the basket from 8 percent starting from May 12,
the central bank said today in a  statement . The basket is
divided equally into dollars, euros and Russian rubles  The move is aimed at making the exchange rate policy more
flexible and “gradually harmonizing” the multiple exchange
rates used in the economy, the regulator said. The authorities
plan to unify exchange rates this month, Economy Minister
Nikolai Snopkov said in an interview April 26.  Belarus is seeking to overcome a currency shortage the led
to the ruble’s plunge after the central bank lifted some
restrictions for interbank trading on April 19. Concerns that
the faltering economy may force a devaluation of the ruble have
spurred runs on sugar, sunflower oil and gold bars this year.  Belagroprombank , the country’s second-largest lender by
assets, is trading the ruble at 5,175 per dollar on the
 interbank market , according to prices supplied to Bloomberg.
That’s 42 percent weaker than the 3,001 per dollar official rate
set by the Natsionalnyi Bank Respubliki Belarus for today, its
 website  shows. The rate is set at 3,037 per dollar for tomorrow.  The east European nation is seeking $3 billion in loans
from  Russia  and other former Soviet countries after its current-
account deficit reached 16 percent of gross domestic product.  The central bank devalued its currency by about a fifth in
January 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kudrytski in Minsk, via the Moscow newsroom on 
.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brad Cook  at   bcook7@bloomberg.net  