-- 
Berkshire Posts Charge on Wells Fargo Stake After SEC’s Query

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-05-06T23:07:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/berkshire-takes-506-million-charge-as-wells-fargo-kraft-stakes-decline.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  recorded a $506 million charge on declines in the value of
stakes in  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  after questions
from the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Berkshire recorded impairments of $337 million on stock in
Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. mortgage lender, and $169 million
tied to Kraft, the world’s second-biggest food company, Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire said today in a filing. The impairments
erased Berkshire’s unrealized losses on its Wells Fargo shares.
Berkshire had an unrealized gain of $3.7 billion on the stake.  “This odd result occurs because existing accounting rules
require that impairments be evaluated as to whether or not they
are other than temporary on an individual purchase,” rather
than looking at the entire stake, Berkshire said.  Berkshire told the SEC in February that it didn’t write
down the holdings last year because it expected both stocks to
recover. Buffett, 80, amassed the third-biggest personal fortune
by picking stocks and making deals for Berkshire, and oversees
an equity portfolio that was valued at $63.2 billion at the end
of March. Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman, chief executive officer
and head of investments, hired former hedge fund manager Todd Combs last year to help with stockholdings.  Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , gained 2.3 percent in
the first quarter, while Kraft of Northfield,  Illinois , slipped
less than 1 percent. Berkshire is the biggest shareholder of
both firms.  Gains From Equities  Net unrealized gains from Berkshire’s equity portfolio, or
the difference between market prices and the values ascribed by
Berkshire to each of its stocks, were $27.3 billion compared
with about $26 billion on Dec. 31, the company said.
Shareholders’ equity rose to $160.1 billion at the end of March
from $157.3 billion at year-end.  Berkshire announced detailed results for the first quarter
in the filing after issuing a preliminary report last week. Net
income dropped to $1.51 billion from $3.63 billion a year
earlier as the insurance segment posted an underwriting loss of
$821 million.  Berkshire was questioned in December about stock declines
in its portfolio and the company recorded equity impairments of
$938 million in the fourth quarter on companies including U.S.
Bancorp and Swiss Reinsurance Co. Berkshire Chief Financial
Officer Marc Hamburg told the SEC in his Feb. 4 letter that he
expected Wells Fargo and Kraft shares to gain.  “Wells Fargo reported record earnings for the year ended
December 31, 2010, and its financial condition is strong,”
Hamburg said. “The financial condition and business prospects
of Wells Fargo are expected to remain strong.”  The impairments are subtracted from Berkshire’s earnings
and not  shareholders’ equity .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Reichl at   dreichl@bloomberg.net  