-- 
Billionaire Blavatnik Will Buy Warner Music in Deal Valued at $3.3 Billion

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-05-06T17:43:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/blavatnik-said-to-win-bid-for-warner-music-at-8-25-a-share-1-.html
Warner Music  Group’s former director
Len Blavatnik agreed to buy the record company of artists
including Cee Lo Green and Bruno Mars for about $1.3 billion, a
deal that may trigger a round of industry consolidation.  Blavatnik’s Access Industries Holdings will pay $8.25 a
share, the companies said in a statement today. The sale of New
York-based Warner Music includes bond debt, valuing the entire
transaction at about $3.3 billion, they said.  The sale caps a three-month auction whose finalists
included brothers Tom and Alec Gores and Sony/ATV Music
Publishing. It may help position Warner Music to make a bid for
London-based EMI Group Ltd., seized by creditor  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
this year, in an industry struggling to boost digital revenue to
offset the impact of falling CD sales and piracy.  “The  music industry  is at an inflection point where
digital adoption is rapidly gaining momentum,” Jorg Mohaupt,
head of media at Blavatnik’s Access Industries, said in the
statement. “Warner Music, as one of the most progressive forces
in the music business, is well positioned to capture this
opportunity for music creation and distribution.”  Warner Music rose 19 cents to $8.09 at 1:26 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The purchase price
represents a 75 percent premium over the close of $4.72 on Jan.
20, before the New York Times reported the company had hired
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to recruit bidders.  Music Consolidation  Citigroup’s takeover of EMI, which struggled to meet the
terms of loans used to finance its takeover by  Guy Hands , may
spark a reorganization of the music industry involving Warner
Music, analysts including  Laura Martin  at Needham & Co. said
before today’s deal. Warner Music had worked on a possible bid
for EMI before it was seized, a person familiar with the plan
said at the time.  Blavatnik, 53, a billionaire industrialist, has made clear
his interest in U.S. entertainment assets since bidding
unsuccessfully last year for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. In 2009,
he bought the U.K. distribution arm of  Mel Gibson ’s Icon Group,
gaining international rights to the actor’s work and films
including “Driving Miss Daisy” and “Dances With Wolves.”  Blavatnik was estimated to be worth $10.1 billion in March
by Forbes magazine. He helped lead the creation of the Russian
oil company TNK-BP and holds a 16 percent stake in the chemical
producer  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Industry in Flux  The all-cash purchase was approved by Warner Music’s board
of directors, the company said. The sale is expected close in
the third quarter.  Record companies  including Warner Music have faced
shrinking revenue and piracy even as the digital music industry
boomed with the advent of Apple Inc.’s iPod and its iTunes music
store, the largest retailer of digital tracks with 28 percent of
the total U.S. music market, according to NPD Group.  Warner Music’s revenue has declined to $2.98 billion in
2010 from $3.52 billion in 2006, and was projected to fall
further to $2.7 billion this year, the average estimate of
analysts.  Global music sales may begin to grow again in 2013, the
accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a report last
year. Industry sales totaled $26.4 billion in 2009.  EMI Obstacles  Impala , an independent record labels group based in  Europe ,
said that while it hoped for a “sound financial future” for
Warner, any move to merge a major rival such as Sony Corp. or
Vivendi SA’s Universal Music with EMI would meet regulatory
obstacles.  “Any attempt to combine EMI with Warner would similarly be
blocked unless there are substantial remedies to solve the
competition problems of going from four to three majors,”
Executive Chairwoman Helen Smith said in a statement today.  Blavatnik’s Access Industries secured some of the financing
for the deal from Credit Suisse and  UBS Investment Bank .  Eight of Warner Music’s 13 directors are executives of
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and Bain Capital LLC, two Boston-based
private-equity firms that together hold 51 percent of the
company’s shares. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Edgar Bronfman Jr. owns about 7 percent of the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  