-- 
Bloomberg Proposes $65.7 Billion 2012 NYC Budget With 6,000 Teacher Cuts

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-05-06T20:25:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/bloomberg-proposes-65-7-billion-2012-nyc-budget-with-6-000-teacher-cuts.html
New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
proposed a $65.7 billion fiscal 2012 budget to the City Council
that contains no new taxes and would cut more than 6,000
teaching positions.  Reductions in state and federal funding will mean fewer
jobs and services, the mayor said. Although 10 rounds of agency
cost-controls since 2008 have trimmed spending by $5.4 billion a
year, that hasn’t overcome increasing fixed and state-mandated
expenses, including pensions rising to $8.4 billion in 2012 from
$1.5 billion in 2002, he said.  “We are in better shape than most cities,” Bloomberg said
in a City Hall news conference. “But we are not an island. We
are not immune to the realities in Albany and  Washington . And
the reality is, both places are keeping more of our tax dollars
to close their own budget deficits.”  The teacher cutbacks -- the most since the 1970s fiscal
crisis, mayoral aides say -- became necessary after Governor
 Andrew Cuomo  and the Legislature enacted a $132 billion budget
in March, closing a  $9.8 billion deficit  in part by cutting $4.6
billion that the city had received for schools, Medicaid and
social services, Bloomberg said. The Medicaid cuts cost the city
another $2.2 billion in federal matching funds, he said.  Federal Aid Loss  Another $1 billion drop in federal aid will mean less
spending on libraries, cultural amenities, senior-citizens’
centers, AIDS patient housing and child-care programs, he said.
The mayor also seeks fire department personnel reassignment that
would eliminate 20 fire companies at a savings of $55 million on
the grounds that fire fatalities are at a record low.  The mayor used  $3.2 billion  in surpluses saved in past
years to prepay 2012 expenses and to make up for $3 billion less
in state and federal aid. The reserves weren’t enough to stave
off the 8 percent reduction in city’s 75,000 teachers, including
about 4,000 who face dismissal, Bloomberg said.  While the surplus helped avert deeper service cuts this
year, such reserves won’t be available when the city faces
budget deficits of approximately $4.8 billion in fiscal 2013,
$5.1 billion in 2014 and $5.3 billion in 2015, Bloomberg said.  He called on the Legislature to enact new pension laws that
would permit the city to negotiate benefit terms directly with
unions, without state approval. New employees should be required
to contribute to their retirement benefits, and to work until 65
before receiving a full pension, the mayor said.  The changes would save the city $1 billion by 2019, the
mayor said. Total tax revenue should rise to $42 billion in 2012
from $40 billion this year, officials said.  Real Estate Taxes  As the economy improves, business-tax revenue will reach
$5.75 billion in the next fiscal year, exceeding the $5.41
billion collected during the 2008 financial crisis, the mayor
said. The financial plan predicts real estate tax revenue to
total $17.7 billion in 2012, up from $16.8 billion this year.
Income-tax collections will rise to $8.2 billion next year from
$7.6 billion, the plan states.  Increased revenue won’t keep up with higher costs of
operations and fringe benefits, the mayor said.  Michael Mulgrew, president of the  United Federation of
Teachers , which represents the city’s public-school educators,
said the mayor’s view was an “attempt to blame others for his
decision to lay off thousands of teachers, despite increased
state aid, hundreds of millions of dollars in new revenues and a
surplus that has grown to more than $3.2 billion.”  Bloomberg said the state should let him choose which
teachers to let go based on performance not seniority.  Consultant Costs  Council members, who must approve a balanced budget by the
June 30 end of the fiscal year, pledged to restore some of the
proposed teacher and social-service cuts. They said they would
seek cost savings in the city’s contracts with outside
consultants and through union concessions.  “This is going to be a very difficult negotiation,” said
Councilman Dominic Recchia, a Brooklyn Democrat who heads the
finance committee. “We won’t allow the mayor to hurt the core
services.”  Comptroller  John Liu  said he would “scrutinize and
restructure when necessary” each administration contract to
find savings.  “It should be noted that throughout the economic crisis,
city agencies have spent billions of dollars on high-priced
outside consultants resulting in runaway spending on technology-
related contracts,” Liu said in an e-mailed response to the
mayor’s presentation.  ‘Easy Target’  The city hires consultants when it seeks expertise that
agencies lack or to fill temporary gaps in staffing, Bloomberg
said. “It’s an easy target” for critics, he said.  Council opposition to $80 million in child-care subsidy
cuts persuaded the mayor to restore half the funding, enough to
ensure that children now enrolled in programs would continue to
receive them. This would leave no money available for new
enrollees as older children age out of the programs, said
Councilman Lewis Fidler, a Brooklyn Democrat who reacted to the
added funding saying, “half a loaf is better than none.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  