-- 
BP May Get Rosneft Swap for Ceding Arctic Project to TNK-BP

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-05-06T17:52:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/bp-panel-allows-completion-of-rosneft-share-swap-with-conditions-on-arctic.html
BP Plc (BP/)  gained the right to carry out a
$7.8 billion share swap with state-owned Russian oil producer
OAO Rosneft in return for ceding its place in an Arctic oil
exploration deal to its TNK-BP venture.  An arbitration panel in  London  today permitted the move
conditional upon Rosneft’s approval, BP and its billionaire
partners in TNK-BP said today in a joint statement. The BP-
Rosneft alliance is  Robert Dudley ’s biggest deal since becoming
chief executive officer of the U.K. producer following the Gulf
of Mexico oil spill last year.  The order may end almost four months of wrangling after
BP’s partners in TNK-BP challenged the Kara Sea exploration deal
and share swap in court. An injunction won by the billionaires’
AAR group remains in place pending Rosneft’s agreement.  “This is a way forward,” said  Christine Tiscareno , an
equity analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in London. “But it looks
like AAR is calling the shots now. It makes BP look very weak.”  BP rose 3.1 percent to 454.70 pence as of the 4:30 p.m.
close in London. The stock is down 9 percent since the planned
alliance was announced Jan. 14. Rosneft rose 2.9 percent, the
biggest gain in more than two weeks, to 235.33 rubles in Moscow.  Investment Only  Rosneft last month agreed to move back the deadline to
complete an exchange of about 9.5 percent of its shares for 5
percent of BP to May 16. The Kara Sea blocks in  Russia ’s Arctic
may contain as much as 100 billion barrels of oil. AAR claimed
that their shareholder agreement gave TNK-BP exclusive rights to
pursue such opportunities for BP in Russia.  The billionaires rejected buyout offers from BP and Rosneft
to allow the alliance to go through, Dudley said April 14. The
bid was for about $27 billion. BP also offered the partners
participation in the Arctic, cash and international projects,
Dudley said.  The arbitrators ordered today the stakes would have to be
for investment purposes only, with  voting rights  exercised by
independent trustees. Neither Rosneft nor BP is allowed seats on
each other’s boards, according to the statement.  “We welcome today’s developments,”  Stan Polovets , the CEO
of AAR, said in an e-mailed statement. “We see the Arctic
transaction with Rosneft as a great opportunity for TNK-BP and
for Russia.”  Replacing BP  The agreement will bring BP’s expertise and technology to
Russia’s offshore, Polovets said. AAR is now focused on working
with BP to develop TNK-BP in Russia and expand internationally,
he said.  In March, TNK-BP management under interim CEO and
billionaire shareholder  Mikhail Fridman  proposed replacing BP in
the deal with Rosneft, which BP’s directors on the TNK-BP board
voted down at a meeting in Paris. AAR rejected BP’s proposal
that TNK-BP hold talks with Rosneft on joining the Arctic
project while allowing the share swap.  “Why would Rosneft want to strengthen AAR? This deal would
make them much stronger,” Tiscareno said.  TNK-BP, set up in 2003 and owned 50-50 by BP and AAR, made
BP the biggest foreign producer in Russia and now accounts for a
quarter of BP’s output and a fifth of its reserves. In 2008, the
billionaires ousted Dudley as head of TNK-BP, as part of the
resolution of a shareholder battle over strategy.  Rosneft CEO Eduard Khudainatov has said his company wants
BP, not TNK-BP, to explore in the Arctic. Russian Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  said in January that BP’s experience in the  Gulf
of Mexico  had made it the preferred partner.  Rosneft hasn’t yet held consultations with BP about the
U.K. producer ceding its place in the Arctic deal to TNK-BP,
Rustam Kazharov, a Rosneft spokesman, said by phone, declining
to comment further. Putin’s spokesman  Dmitry Peskov  declined to
immediately comment.  “The deal is still in the stalemate, which means a buyout
of AAR still seems the only reasonable way out,”  Luis Saenz , a
London-based director director of international sales at
brokerage Otkritie Securities Ltd., said in an e-mailed note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  