-- 
BP Seeks Dismissal of Pension-Fund Claims Over Oil Spill

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-05-06T22:44:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/bp-seeks-dismissal-of-pension-fund-claims-over-oil-spill-1-.html
BP Plc (BP/)  asked a judge to throw out
investor claims that management downplayed safety risks before
and after its Macondo oil well blew out in the  Gulf of Mexico 
last year, causing billions of dollars in stock market losses.  The company also asked U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison
to restrict any surviving investor fraud claims to owners of BP
American depositary receipts, which trade on the New York Stock
Exchange. BP said U.S. securities laws don’t apply to holders of
foreign shares, such as the company’s common stock, which trades
in  London , where the company is based.  The investors “seek to transform a matter involving
allegedly negligent safety processes into an action for
 securities fraud ,’’ BP said in its filing. Citing previous court
rulings, BP said, “securities laws do not protect investors
against negligence.’’  Shareholders led by the pension funds of New York and Ohio
are claiming billions of dollars in losses and seek recovery
from BP and its directors and officers. Lawsuits over personal
and economic injuries from the spill are combined in New Orleans
federal court and aren’t affected by today’s request.  BP ADRs plunged 40 percent to $36.52 by June 1, 2010, from
$60.48 on April 20, 2010, the day the well blew, triggering the
worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history.  Securities Laws  The investors said BP violated U.S. securities laws by
misleading them before and after the spill. BP publicly touted a
commitment to safety while cutting budgets and personnel and
rejecting internal complaints, according to the investors’
lawsuit. BP also initially hid the true size of the blowout to
limit the impact on its stock price, the investors claim.  Richard Mithoff, who represents individual investors in the
BP securities litigation, said BP’s motion to dismiss was
“customary in these kinds of cases.”  “I am confident we will meet these arguments and BP’s
motion will be over-ruled,” Mithoff said in a phone interview
today.  Dan Tierney, spokesman for Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine, declined to comment on BP’s dismissal motion, citing a
policy not to discuss ongoing litigation. Olayinka Fadahunsi, a
spokesman for  New York  Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  More than 4.1 million barrels of crude spewed into the Gulf
after the explosion, fouling hundreds of miles of shoreline and
temporarily closing much of the region’s fisheries.  BP has established a $20 billion fund to pay claims of
people and businesses harmed by the spill. The company said in
court papers last month that it had incurred costs of
$17.7 billion so far and took a pretax charge in 2010 of $40.9
billion in relation to the spill.  The case is In re  BP Plc (BP)  Securities Litigation, 4:10-md-
2185, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 