-- 
Mantega Says Brazilian CPI Peaked in April After Exceeding Target Range

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-05-06T15:15:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/brazil-s-april-consumer-prices-rise-0-77-from-previous-month.html
Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said inflation has peaked after a report showed the
benchmark  consumer price index  in April exceeded the upper limit
of the government’s target range for the first time since 2005.  Prices, as measured by the IPCA index, rose 6.51 percent in
April from the same month a year earlier, up from 6.30 percent
in March, the national statistics agency said today in a report
distributed in Rio de Janeiro. By year-end, the annual rate will
be below 6.5 percent, the high end of the government’s target
range, Mantega told reporters in Brasilia today.  “The worst inflation moment is behind us,” Mantega said.
“The villain in April was gasoline and ethanol. The good thing
is that in May, fuel prices are already falling. On top of that,
commodity prices in the international market are dropping
strongly.”  Traders in the interest-rate futures market today pared
bets for higher borrowing costs on contracts across the board
after monthly inflation unexpectedly slowed. Consumer prices
rose 0.77 percent in April from the previous month, the lowest
level since December, the agency said. Economists expected a
0.84 percent rise, up from 0.79 percent in March, according the
median forecast from 39 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Consumer price inflation in May will slow to 0.45 percent
to 0.5 percent, Mantega said.  ‘Horrible’ Numbers  “The figures are a little below what we expected, yet one
cannot celebrate, inflation in the last 12 months remains
horrible,” said Flavio Serrano, senior economist at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank. “The central bank will raise  interest
rates  by 25 basis points in each of the next two meetings before
stopping, as fuel prices may begin to fall as the harvest of
sugarcane continues.”  As the inflation outlook worsens in  Latin America ’s largest
economy, the central bank has raised the Selic rate three times
this year to 12 percent and said it will continue tightening at
a slower pace for a longer period than initially planned,
according to the minutes of its April 19-20 meeting.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini yesterday told
lawmakers that “robust” domestic demand is pressuring the
price of services even as high commodity costs fuel inflation
around the globe.  Year-End Goal  In testimony before Congress, Tombini said he expects
monthly inflation to start slowing in May to a level in line
with the bank’s year-end goal. The government targets inflation
of 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points.  “The moderation of monthly inflation to be observed from
now on should make the central bank feel comfortable with one
last 25 basis-point hike of the Selic in June,” Enestor dos
Santos, senior Brazil economist for BBVA in  Madrid , said in a
note to clients today. “However, additional 25 basis-points
hikes cannot be ruled out if inflation moderation proves to be
weaker than expected.”  The yield on interest-rate futures contracts due in January
2013 fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 12.58
percent at 11:06 a.m.  New York  time. The real rose 1.2 percent
to 1.6034 per  U.S. dollar .  Gasoline prices jumped 6.26 percent in the month, helping
to fuel a 1.57 percent increase in transportation costs that
outpaced price increases of all other items, the agency said.
Food prices rose 0.58 percent, less than the 0.75 percent jump
in March.  Above the Target  It was the first time 12-month inflation as measured by the
IPCA exceeded the government’s target since June 2005, when
prices jumped 7.27 percent from the year before.  Brazil ’s economic activity index, a proxy for gross
domestic product, rose 6.98 percent in February from the same
month a year earlier, its fastest pace since August. Latin
America’s biggest economy grew at an annual rate of “a little
more” than 4 percent in the first quarter, Finance Minister
Guido Mantega said April 18 in New York.  The central bank will rely on a mix of policies, including
higher interest rates, spending cuts and measures to curb
credit, to slow inflation back to the midpoint of its target
range next year, policy makers said in their quarterly inflation
report March 30.  First-quarter earnings from retailers are showing no
slowdown in demand. Lojas Americanas SA, Brazil’s biggest
publicly traded discount retailer, surged 4.5 percent in Sao
Paulo trading today after reporting a 33 percent jump in profits
in the first quarter from a year ago.  Cia. Hering, a clothing manufacturer and retailer, said
last week quarterly profit rose 74 percent from a year earlier,
according to a regulatory filing. Lojas Renner SA, Brazil’s
biggest publicly traded apparel retailer, said profits surged 29
percent in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  