-- 
Tim CEO Says Voting Rights Plan to Make Acquisitions Easier

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-05-06T21:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/brazil-s-tim-says-voting-rights-plan-will-make-company-takeovers-easier.html
Tim Participacoes SA,  Brazil ’s third-
biggest wireless carrier, will find it easier to acquire
companies after extending  voting rights  to all shareholders,
Chief Executive Officer Luca Luciani said.  The plan to exchange 0.8406 voting shares for each
nonvoting share makes Tim’s stock more liquid in Brazil and the
U.S., Luciani said today in a phone interview. That gives the
Rio de Janeiro-based company, controlled by  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ,
more flexibility to use shares in transactions, he said.  Tim is on the lookout for network infrastructure such as
the nationwide fiber-optic network it acquired in 2009 by buying
Intelig Telecomunicacoes Ltda., said Luciani, 43. Tim issued new
stock and assumed debt as part of that takeover.  “The same potential deal could be much more efficient now
with shares of higher liquidity that have been re-rated,”
Luciani said. “In Brazil, there are many opportunities in the
infrastructure area.”  Tim’s nonvoting shares  rose  54 centavos, or 7.8 percent, to
7.48 reais in Sao Paulo trading at 4:10 p.m.  New York  time, the
biggest increase since December 2008. The voting shares rose 59
centavos, or 7.2 percent, to 8.78 reais.  The change in shareholder rights is part of Tim’s move to
join the Sao Paulo stock exchange’s  Novo Mercado , which requires
all shares to have voting rights as part of its stricter
disclosure requirements.  Transparency Increased  “We see this development as very positive,” Andre Baggio,
a Sao Paulo-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a
note to clients yesterday. The plan will increase liquidity and
transparency, he said.  The company, which trails Vivo Participacoes SA and  America
Movil SAB (AMXL)  in Brazilian wireless subscribers, has gained market
share in the past year by offering plans with unlimited calling
to other Tim subscribers and to fixed lines. Tim held 25.1
percent of the market at the end of March, up from 23.7 percent
a year earlier, according to Anatel, Brazil’s telecommunications
regulator. Vivo had 29.5 percent and  America Movil  had 25.4
percent.  Brazil’s wireless market growth has accelerated in each of
the seven months ending in March, when it was up 17.5 percent to
210.5 million total subscribers, according to Anatel. The pace
of growth will probably continue to speed up this year as
competition makes service more affordable and more customers
sign up for Internet plans, Luciani said.  ‘Room for Growth’  “Competition is quite high, that will mean SIM penetration
can accelerate,” Luciani said, referring to the removable SIM
cards used to connect phone handsets to networks. “There’s a
lot of room for growth in Brazil, not only in voice but in
data.”  Data services such as  Internet access  will make up about 20
percent of Tim’s revenue by the end of this year, up from 14
percent last quarter, Luciani said. Voice service will continue
to grow as customers use their mobile phones instead of land
lines, he said.  While Vivo, controlled by  Telefonica SA (TEF) , and America Movil
are both combining their fixed-line and wireless businesses, Tim
prefers to remain a wireless-only competitor, Luciani said.  “It is a big advantage,” he said. “We can focus all our
investments in mobile technologies that are much more efficient
so that we can offer a higher return on invested capital to the
shareholders. Mobile infrastructure in Brazil is an advantage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  