-- 
U.K. Government Bonds Head for Fourth Weekly Gain as Price Growth Fades

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-05-06T15:55:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/british-pound-declines-against-euro-before-producer-price-index-report.html
U.K. government bonds headed for a
fourth weekly gain, the longest streak since August, as data
this week showed producer-price inflation eased in April and
growth in the service industry slowed.  The pound rose against the dollar, trimming its biggest
five-day advance versus the dollar since December. Producer
prices increased 0.8 percent from March, when they gained 0.9
percent, U.K. statistics today showed. The  Bank of England  kept
its benchmark rate unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent
yesterday.  “Economic numbers out of the U.K. have been disappointing
lately, and it’s unlikely the Bank of England will be able to
raise  interest rates  anytime soon,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a
fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in
Edinburgh. “I find short-dated gilts expensive at the current
level, but it’s too early to go short or bet for a decline.”  The yield on 10-year gilts was little changed at 3.39
percent as of 4:53 p.m. in  London , nine basis points lower since
April 28. The 3.75 percent security due in September 2020 traded
at 102.885. Two-year note yields stayed at 1.02 percent, or
eight basis points down from the end of last week. There was no
gilt trading on April 29 or May 2.  Five-year breakeven rates, a gauge of market inflation
expectations derived from the yield difference between regular
and index-linked bonds, declined as much as eight basis points
to 2.67 percentage points, the lowest since March 17.  The pound climbed 0.5 percent against the euro to 88.28
pence, 0.4 percent stronger since April 29. Sterling climbed 0.2
percent to $1.6423, still 1.7 percent lower in the week. It
jumped 0.8 percent to 132.27 yen today.  Rate Outlook  Britain’s currency strengthened as much as 1.4 percent
against the euro yesterday, the steepest intraday climb since
Oct. 26, after the  European Central Bank  left its key rate
unchanged at 1.25 percent and signaled it may not raise the main
refinancing rate again until after June after its April
increase. The move followed an earlier slide in the pound to a
13-month low against the shared European currency. Sterling fell
1.4 percent to A$1.5267 from A$1.5489 yesterday.  “The strong jobs data in the U.S. helps to improve
sentiment and boost risk appetite,” said  Chris Walker , a
currency strategist at UBS AG in London. “Sterling, which is
seen as a riskier asset, benefits from this.”  Any gains in sterling are likely to be short-lived,
according to UniCredit SpA,  Italy ’s biggest lender.  “Recent data out of the U.K. tend to have surprised on the
downside,” said  Roberto Mialich , a senior currency strategist
at UniCredit SpA in Milan. “Those reports will only bolster
speculation that the Bank of England will keep rates low for
longer. That’s not going to help the pound.”  Investors have pushed back bets on the first rate increase
to December from expectations a month ago that the first move
would come in July, according to forward contracts on the
sterling overnight interbank average, or Sonia, compiled by
Tullett Prebon Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  