-- 
California Executives Knew of Bribes to Mexican Utility, Prosecutor Says

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-07T00:11:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/california-executives-knew-of-bribes-to-mexican-utility-prosecutor-says.html
Two executives at a  California  maker
of power-line equipment knew that the 30 percent commission they
paid a Mexican sales representative was used to bribe officials
at a state-owned utility, a federal prosecutor said.  Lindsey Manufacturing Co. President Keith Lindsey and Chief
Financial Officer Steve Lee hired the intermediary in 2002 after
the closely held company repeatedly failed to legitimately win
contracts from Comision Federal de Electricidad, Assistant U.S.
Attorney  Jeffrey Goldberg  told jurors in Los Angeles today at
the end of a trial on corruption charges.  “They joined the corrupt enemy,” Goldberg said in his
closing statement.  Lindsey Manufacturing, which is also a defendant, paid
Enrique Aguilar, an independent Mexican sales representative,
and his company inflated commissions to cover more than $5
million in bribes, including a Ferrari and a yacht, for two
officials at the utility, according to prosecutors.  Jan Handzlik, a lawyer for the Azusa, California-based
company and its president, said in his closing statement that
Lindsey’s sales in  Mexico  didn’t increase after they started
working with Aguilar in 2002. The only meaningful jump in orders
for Lindsey’s emergency transmission towers came in 2006, after
Hurricane Wilma destroyed many electricity towers the previous
year, according to the lawyer.  No Competition  In addition, there was no competition for Lindsey’s
products in Mexico during the period the government alleges they
bribed state officials, Handzlik said.  “If Mr. Aguilar did anything improper, Lindsey
Manufacturing didn’t authorize him to do this,” Handzlik told
jurors. “It was not known to these individuals.”  Aguilar’s wife, Angela Aguilar, was arrested last year in
Houston and charged with  money laundering  for setting up a U.S.
brokerage account through which the payments were made. She is
being tried with the Lindsey executives. Her husband, a Mexican
citizen, was also charged. He isn’t in the U.S.  Stephen Larson, the lawyer representing Angela Aguilar,
said prosecutors indicted her to get to her husband and that
there was no evidence that she knew that the money she used to
make payments was the result of criminal activity or that she
had intended to conceal where the money had come from.  The case is U.S. v. Aguilar, 10-1031, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Edvard Pettersson} in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  