-- 
CANADA DAYBOOK: Cameco, IGM Financial Report; April Jobs Data

-- B y   K e v i n   B e l l
-- 
2011-05-06T05:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/canada-daybook-cameco-igm-financial-report-april-jobs-data.html
Cameco Corp. (CCO)  and IGM Financial Inc.
are among companies scheduled to report first-quarter financial
results today.  ECONOMY:
*Statistics Canada will report April employment and jobless
rates at 7 a.m. Economists forecast 20,000 jobs were created and
the unemployment rate stayed at 7.7 percent.  EVENTS:
*Cameco Corp., the world’s biggest uranium producer, will report
first-quarter financial results before the market opens.
Analysts forecast profit of 31 Canadian cents a share, excluding
certain items, according to the average of 14 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.
* Quadra FNX Mining Ltd. (QUX) , a copper producer with operations in
the U.S., Canada and Chile, is scheduled to report first-quarter
earnings before the market opens. The average of 12 analysts’
profit estimates in a Bloomberg survey is 35 cents a share,
excluding certain items.
*Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., the country’s second-largest
energy company by market value, will hold a conference call at 9
a.m. in Calgary to discuss first-quarter financial results.
*Mutual-fund company  IGM Financial Inc. (IGM)  is scheduled to release
first-quarter earnings. The average profit estimate among seven
analysts in a Bloomberg survey is 76 Canadian cents a share,
excluding certain items.
* Equinox Minerals Ltd. (EQN) , which has agreed to be acquired by
Barrick Gold Corp., is scheduled to release first-quarter
results. The Perth, Australia-based copper miner, is estimated
to earn 6.7 cents a share before one-time items, based on a
Bloomberg survey of eight analysts. Equinox also will hold its
annual meeting at 11 a.m. at the Toronto Stock Exchange.
* GMP Capital Inc. (GMP) , Canada’s second-biggest brokerage, is set to
release first-quarter results around 6 a.m. and hold its annual
investors meeting at 11 a.m. in the Gallery Room at the Ritz-
Carlton at 181 Wellington Street W in Toronto.
*Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  will speak at a central
bank conference in Helsinki, Finland. Slides will be posted on
the bank’s website at 1:45 a.m. Carney is also scheduled to be
interviewed on the financial news network CNBC at 9 a.m.  MARKETS:
*The S&P/TSX fell for a fourth session, dropping 1.2 percent to
13,455.38.
*Yields on two-year Government of Canada bonds fell 4 basis
points to 1.65 percent.
*The Canadian dollar declined for a fourth day to 96.83 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 3:57 p.m. yesterday in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Bell in Toronto at   kbell2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@Bloomberg.net  