-- 
Carstens Says ‘Slack’ in Mexico’s Economy Checks Prices, Allows Rate Pause

-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   D a v i d   T w e e d
-- 
2011-05-06T15:25:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/carstens-says-mexican-food-price-swings-won-t-threaten-3-inflation-target.html
Mexico ’s central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said Mexico’s economy still has “slack” before
reaching full capacity, which is keeping consumer prices in
check and enables policy makers to hold off on raising rates.  “We will look into the output gap together with other
indicators,” Carstens said in a Bloomberg Television interview
in Helsinki today. “Until we see that the convergence to our 3
percent permanent goal is in danger, then we might adjust the
policy.”  Mexico’s annual inflation rate for March fell to 3.04
percent, the slowest in more than five years, allowing the
central bank to hold its target rate at a record-low 4.5
percent.  Banco de Mexico  has kept it rate at that level since
July 2009.  The output gap, or the difference between the level of
economic activity and the country’s production capacity, may
close in the second half of the year, Carstens said. The economy
expanded 5.5 percent last year after contracting 6.1 percent in
2009. Mexico’s  Finance Ministry  forecasts the economy will grow
4.2 percent this year as consumer spending rebounds and exports
surge.  With the March inflation number, Mexico is “very close to
our permanent objective of 3 percent,” Carstens said. Consumer
prices are “behaving quite well” and may fluctuate in a range
of 3 percent to 4 percent this year, he said.  The peso advanced 1.2 percent to 11.5880 per  U.S. dollar  at
11:22 a.m. New York time, from 11.7289 yesterday.  The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent peso bond due 2024 fell 3
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.40 percent,
according to Banco Santander SA. The price of the security rose
0.25 centavo to 122.20 centavos per peso.  Food Prices  A seasonal jump in food prices won’t jeopardize the central
bank’s inflation target, he said.  “The price of food items is also something that might give
us some awkward lift to our inflation, but it should be
contained in the range,” Carstens said.  A stronger peso, which has rallied 6.3 percent against the
dollar this year, is helping contain inflation, Carstens said.
The peso’s gain makes it cheaper to import  consumer goods  and
component parts from the U.S.  Carstens said the central bank is buying gold to obtain the
“best risk-return balance” for its investments and won’t
necessarily continue purchasing bullion this year. The bank said
on May 4 it bought 100 tons of gold in recent months.  “Given the performance gold has had in the recent past, it
turns out it would allow us to have a higher return without much
risk,” Carstens said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Price in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  