-- 
Cheniere Cash Dwindles Amid Wait for Gas Exporting Permit

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-05-06T14:59:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/cheniere-cash-dwindles-amid-wait-for-gas-exporting-permit-2-.html
Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) , a liquefied
natural-gas importer that has lost money for 13 consecutive
years, may have to sell assets and restructure debt to avoid
running out of cash as soon as next year.  Cheniere’s cash and near-cash equivalents declined by $50
million during the first three months of this year, ending the
quarter at $24.5 million, the Houston-based company said today
in a statement. Cheniere has a $298 million loan payment due in
May 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “At the heart of our concern is how will they finance the
maturities that come due in 2012,” Mark Habib, a credit analyst
at  Standard & Poor’s  in New York, said today in a telephone
interview. “There aren’t a lot of options left open to them
other than some sort of distressed debt exchange or default.”  U.S. gas-import terminals constructed during the last
decade have languished as new drilling techniques unlocked a
bonanza of domestic supply, pushing prices too low to justify
costlier imports from overseas. Cheniere’s 9.75 percent, $400
million  term loan  issued in 2007 matures in May 2012, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Between now and May 2012, “we expect to continue to
restructure our finances and improve our  capital structure ,”
the company said. In addition to sales of unnamed assets,
Cheniere’s options include refinancing existing debt, issuing
equity or other securities, and “entering into long-term
commercial agreements,” according to the statement.  Cheniere’s cash reserves are at their smallest since the
third quarter of 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Export Costs  Cheniere shares more than tripled in the past year as the
company took steps to convert its Gulf of Mexico gas-import
terminal into a facility that would liquefy the fuel for export
aboard tanker ships. The company is awaiting a federal
regulatory decision on its request for permission for the
project.  The export facility in Cameron Parish,  Louisiana , will cost
an estimated $400 per-ton-of-capacity, Cheniere said. This will
amount to $6.4 billion for the project, according to Bloomberg
calculations. A final  investment decision  won’t be made until
the company signs up customers to use at least 3.5 million tons
of the facility’s planned 16 million tons of annual liquefaction
capacity, according to the statement.  Diane Haggard, a spokeswoman for Cheniere, didn’t return a
telephone message seeking comment.  No Contracts  So far, none of Cheniere’s eight non-binding memoranda of
understanding with potential customers have resulted in actual
contracts, according to the statement.  Cheniere has $298 million outstanding on the loan due in
May 2012 after making a $102 million pre-payment in June, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  The company also said today its first-quarter loss widened
to $39.8 million, or 60 cents a share, from $35.2 million, or 64
cents, a year earlier. One analyst in a Bloomberg survey
estimated a loss of 87 cents.  Cheniere rose 47 cents, or 6 percent, to $8.25 at 10:52
a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have increased 49 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 