-- 
Chicago Deficit Projection Down 10% on Revenue Increase, Budget Chief Says

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-05-06T19:46:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/chicago-deficit-projection-drops-10-on-revenue-stream-rebound-cost-cuts.html
Chicago’s projected budget deficit for
2012 has dropped 10 percent to $587 million, departing Mayor
 Richard M. Daley ’s financial team reported as he prepares to
leave office after 22 years.  The drop from an earlier estimate of $655 million is “a
reflection of the slight uptick in revenues and the aggressive
efforts to hold down headcount and expenditures,” said City
Budget Director Eugene Munin.  The new revenue figures, coming 10 days before the mayor
leaves office, amounted to a closing argument on behalf of the
Daley administration as “good financial stewards” for the city,
in the words of Chief Financial Officer Gene Saffold. Mayor-
elect  Rahm Emanuel  had criticized Daley’s leasing of some city
operations and said reserve funds from those agreements
shouldn’t have been used to balance budgets.  “Mayor Daley is leaving the city in a much stronger
position,” Saffold said.  Lease agreements for the Chicago Skyway and the city’s
36,000 parking meters enabled the city to “keep property taxes
stable through the Great Recession,” he said, cautioning against
too much optimism.  “While there are the small signs you’ve heard about that
the worst part is over, potentially, we know it will be a long
process of economic recovery over the next several years,”
Saffold said.  Mayor Emanuel  Emanuel, 51, the former White House chief of staff, will be
sworn in May 16, taking over leadership of the nation’s third-
largest city from Daley. Emanuel has ruled out a property-tax
increase and won’t have the money from leasing parking meters
that Daley tapped.  Repeated use of such reserve funds by the current mayor to
balance budgets led  Standard & Poor’s  to cut Chicago’s credit
rating on Nov. 5 by one level to A+, the fifth-highest grade.  During the campaign, Emanuel was more vocal than other
candidates in his calls for “shared sacrifice” by those who
work for the city of 2.7 million people.  “The status quo does not work,” Emanuel said during a
public event April 20 sponsored by the  Chicago Tribune . “You
want change? Everyone has to have skin in the game.”  The Daley administration is working with Emanuel’s
transition team on identifying $75 million in immediate cuts
that Emanuel has said he wants to make, Munin said. Most of
those reductions will be in the city’s workforce, he said.  The city is collecting revenues similar to 2004 levels
while spending at 2011 levels, Munin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  