-- 
Chile Consumer Prices Increase Less-Than-Forecast 0.3% in April from March

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-05-06T13:24:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/chile-consumer-prices-increase-less-than-forecast-0-3-in-april-from-march.html
Chile ’s consumer prices rose less than
forecast in April, increasing the probability the central bank
will slow the pace of interest rate increases next week.  Consumer prices rose 0.3 percent in April from March, the
National Statistics Institute said in a report today. The median
estimate of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.4
percent increase. Annual inflation reached 3.2 percent, down
from 3.4 percent a month earlier. Economists expected an annual
rate of 3.3 percent, according to the median of 13 forecasts.  The central bank estimates annual inflation will exceed its
target range of 2 percent to 4 percent by year-end on higher
fuel prices. April price data and falling oil prices could
indicate that inflationary pressures are subsiding, which may
give the bank more time to raise rates to a neutral level, said
Flavio Magnasco, an economist at Banco Falabella in Santiago.  “Lower-than-estimated inflation provides the central bank
increased space to raise rates at a slower pace,” Magnasco said
in an interview today. “That’s especially true with the
 exchange rate , which is complex. If the bank continues to raise
rates by a half-point, that would cause appreciation pressure.”  Central Bank  Chile’s central bank has raised  interest rates  in 10 of its
last 11 monthly meetings. Policy makers accelerated the pace of
increases to a half-point in the last two meetings, saying in
statements accompanying the decision they would continue to
remove the monetary stimulus.  The three-month interest rate swap, which reflects traders’
views of future interest rate decisions, fell to 5.01 percent
today from 5.06 percent yesterday.  Two-year breakeven inflation, which reflects views of
average price increases, fell to 3.68 percent today from 3.69
percent yesterday.  Chile’s peso gained 0.6 percent to 466.15 per  U.S. dollar 
as of 9:21 a.m. New York time, erasing an earlier loss.  Central bank inflation estimates in Chile have increased
because of higher oil and food prices, policy makers said in
their monthly meeting in April.  ‘Limited and Transitory’  “Total inflation was expected to temporarily cross the
upper limit of the range of tolerance because of the impact of
increased food and energy prices,” according to the minutes of
the meeting. “Those effects could be limited and transitory.”  Food and beverage as well as utility prices rose 0.7
percent in April from the previous month, the institute said
today. Transportation prices rose 0.4 percent as communications
and clothing prices slipped 0.6 percent and 0.1 percent,
respectively.  West Texas Intermediate oil rose 6.2 percent in April as
the United Nations world food price index, which is the weighted
average of 55 farm commodity prices, climbed 0.5 percent. Crude
closed below $100 a barrel yesterday for the first time since
March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  