-- 
Tightening Will Ease as China’s Inflation Peaks, Ex-PBOC Adviser Fan Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-06T01:49:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/china-s-tightening-will-slow-as-inflation-peaks-ex-pboc-adviser-fan-says.html
China’s monetary policy may shift to
“less tightening” in the second half of this year after
inflation likely peaked in April or this month, said  Fan Gang , 
a former adviser to the central bank.  Exchange-rate policies aren’t likely to change
“dramatically in the foreseeable future,” Fan said in an e-
mail to Bloomberg News late yesterday.  The fastest expansion of any major economy and a jump in
lending from late 2008 have stoked price risks and triggered two
increases in benchmark borrowing costs this year. While the
Philippines, Malaysia,  India  and Vietnam raised  interest rates 
this week, officials across Asia may recalibrate their inflation
forecasts after commodities plunged yesterday.  Fan said vegetable prices in China “have already
stabilized,” a key factor in reducing inflation. Consumer-price
gains may peak this month or have already done so in April, he
said. He sees “less tightening than what we had in the first
half of the year.”  Fan, formerly an academic member of the central bank’s
monetary policy committee, is a director of  China ’s National
Economic Research Institute.  The median forecast of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News is for an annual inflation rate in April of 5.2 percent,
down from a 32-month high of 5.4 percent in March.  Premier Wen Jiabao aims to cool the property market and
rein in consumer prices while sustaining growth amid signs of
weakness in the global recovery. Oil traded near the lowest in
almost two months in  New York  today, headed for the biggest
weekly drop in a year after an unexpected increase in U.S.
jobless claims.  China’s key one-year lending rate stands at 6.31 percent
after four increases since mid-October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  