-- 
China Names Yuan Li as President of China Life’s Parent

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-06T09:27:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/china-names-yuan-li-as-president-of-china-life-s-parent-1-.html
China’s insurance regulator said it
appointed Assistant Chairman  Yuan  Li as the president of China
Life Insurance (Group) Co., parent of the nation’s biggest
insurer, replacing Yang Chao.  The China Insurance Regulatory Commission made the
announcement on its website today. The watchdog didn’t provide a
reason or indicate if Yuan will also replace Yang, 61, as
chairman of listed unit  China Life Insurance Co. (2628)   Yuan, 48, takes over the helm at the Beijing-based state-
owned insurance group after its Hong Kong- and Shanghai-traded
unit reported a 22 percent decline in first-quarter  profit  as
investment yields slipped and claims surged, compared with a 28
percent increase at smaller rival Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.  Yuan joined the CIRC in 1998 and was named assistant
chairman in 2005, after 14 years at Chinese insurance companies
including Shenzhen-based Ping An, according to the  website  of
China Finance 40 Forum, a non-government research organization
of which Yuan is a member. He received a doctorate in economics
from Beijing University.  The listed unit’s profit last year rose 2.3 percent to 33.6
billion yuan ($5.2 billion) as economic growth boosted premiums
income and higher interest rates lifted investment yields. Total
assets rose to 1.41 trillion yuan as of Dec. 31, compared with
the group’s 1.78 trillion yuan, according to company filings and
 website .  Yang had been president of the group since May, 2005, and
was named chairman of the listed company two months later,
according to company filings. He will be replaced at the group
as he reached retirement age, Sina.com reported earlier today,
without saying where it got the information.  --Zhang Dingmin. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  