-- 
China to Fine Unilever for Telling Media It May Raise Prices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-06T11:43:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/china-to-fine-unilever-for-telling-media-it-may-raise-prices-1-.html
Unilever, the world’s second-largest
 consumer-goods  maker, will be fined 2 million yuan ($308,000) in
China for telling the media about its plans to raise prices,
which the government said led to hoarding.  News reports in March that cited Unilever as saying it may
raise prices strengthened fears of inflation, the National
Development and Reform Commission, China’s top economic planning
agency, said in a  statement  on its website today.  The media reports “disrupted market prices” and led to
the hoarding of consumer goods in some cities, said the NDRC, as
it is also known. “Severe punishment was meted out this time to
break ugly habits and build new rules” and operators should
“absorb the lesson,” the statement said.  Sales surged as much as 100 times above “normal levels”
for some of Unilever’s products after Zeng Xiwen, the company’s
spokesman in  China , was quoted as saying prices may go up, the
economic agency said. The government has said controlling
inflation is its top priority. The central bank on May 3 said
“stabilizing prices and managing inflation expectations are
critical.”  “As a company with a long term commitment to China, we
continue to be sensitive to the local environment,” Unilever
said in an e-mailed statement. “We accept the decision of NDRC
and Shanghai Price Bureau,” the company said, adding that it
closed a case with the city’s price bureau today, without giving
more details.  Tingyi Warned  The government also warned food and beverage maker Tingyi
( Cayman Islands ) Holding Corp. today against “excessive” price
increases. Tingyi said in March it postponed plans to raise
prices of its Master Kong-brand instant noodles.  “We will follow the instructions by the government to make
inflation stable,” Tingyi Chief Financial Officer Frank Lin
said in a telephone interview. “Although our gross margin will
be squeezed, we’ve decided to suspend” price increases.  China’s Price Law disallows operators from fabricating and
distributing information about price increases, raising prices
collectively and pushing up prices excessively, according to the
NDRC statement.  “It is quite significant, the size of the fine,” said
Nicholas French, co-head of the antitrust, competition and trade
group at FreshFields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP., from Beijing
today. “Clearly it’s all to do with inflationary pressures and
keeping that under control.”  Consumer prices in China jumped 5.4 percent in March, the
biggest increase in 32 months, exceeding the government’s 4
percent full-year target every month this year. Inflation may
have eased to 5.2 percent in April, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 26 economists.  “Potential price increases in the future will depend on
commodities prices, which have shown some signs of easing
lately,” Tingyi’s Lin said.  China is also studying rules to control property
developers’ profits to keep  home prices  at a reasonable level,
according to the NDRC statement today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  