-- 
Christie Says ‘Jersey Shore’ Cast of New Yorkers Should Get Out of State

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-05-06T15:03:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/christie-says-jersey-shore-cast-of-new-yorkers-should-get-out-of-state.html
Governor  Chris Christie  has a message
for the nine-member cast of MTV’s “ Jersey Shore”  television
reality show: Get out of  New Jersey .  “They parachute these people onto the Jersey Shore and try
to make America think these are Jersey people, and they’re not.
They’re New Yorkers,” Christie said today during a four-hour
appearance on  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s  WFAN , a sports-talk radio station in
New York. “They ought to take them out to Montauk, all the way
out on the point, and leave them there. And don’t drop bread
crumbs, so they can’t find their way back.”  Christie, 48, a Republican of Irish and Sicilian lineage,
has criticized the show since taking office in January 2010. The
program portrays life in  Seaside Heights  and the so-called Guido
culture among Italian-Americans of the Garden State. The show
celebrates heavy drinking, heavy tanning and public misbehavior.  One cast member,  Deena Nicole “The Blast” Cortese , comes
from New Jersey, according to the show’s website. Christie
called cast member Vinny Guadagnino “ridiculous and a moron.”
He also singled out Nicole “Snooki” Polizzi, Michael “The
Situation” Sorrentino and Jenni “JWoww” Farley, saying they
should “go back to  New York .”  The governor said he asked New York Governor Andrew Cuomo
yesterday to “take them back.”  Christie joined host Craig Carton as a fill-in for Boomer Esiason on the  “Boomer & Carton”  show. Other topics included
the looming departure of the New Jersey Nets to  Brooklyn  next
year and Christie’s beloved New York Mets baseball team. WFAN is
the radio broadcast home of the Mets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaumt . 