-- 
Clegg’s Liberal Democrats Suffer Losses in English Local Council Elections

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-05-06T14:26:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/clegg-s-liberal-democrats-suffer-losses-in-english-local-council-elections.html
The Liberal Democrats, the junior
partner in U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition,
suffered losses in local elections as the party took the blame
for budget cuts being pushed through by the government.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg ’s party lost 481 seats,
after results from 188 of the 279 local councils contested
across  England  yesterday were declared, while Cameron’s
Conservatives gained 54 seats. The main opposition  Labour Party 
gained 568 seats, softening the blow of losses in voting for the
Scottish Parliament.  The vote marked the first nationwide electoral test for the
coalition, which was formed after Cameron failed to score an
outright victory over Labour’s  Gordon Brown  in last May’s
general election. Liberal Democrat support has plummeted since
joining the administration, which is imposing the deepest budget
cuts since World War II to tackle the deficit. The party has
also broken a promise to oppose increased college tuition fees.  “In those parts of the country --  Scotland ,  Wales  and the
great cities of the north -- where there are real anxieties
about the deficit-reduction plans that we’re having to put in
place, we’re getting the brunt of the blame,” Clegg told
reporters in London this morning. “We’ve clearly had a bad
result overnight and we now need to learn the lessons, get up,
dust ourselves down and move on.”  ‘Absolutely Committed’  Clegg’s party saw Labour win control of the northern city
of Sheffield, where the Liberal Democrats had run a minority
administration and where he has his House of Commons electoral
district. They also lost control of Bristol, Hull and Stockport.  “I am absolutely committed to make this coalition
government, that I believe is good for Britain, work for the
full five years of this term,” Cameron told reporters in
London. “The reason for having a coalition is as good today as
it was a year ago.”  Labour is projected to take 37 percent of the vote across
the U.K., the  Conservatives  35 percent and the Liberal Democrats
15 percent, the BBC reported, citing its own calculations. When
the same seats were last contested in 2007, the Conservatives
took 40 percent of the vote as Labour, then in power for 10
years, slumped to 27 percent. The Liberal Democrats took 26
percent.  The chief secretary to the Treasury,  Danny Alexander , a
Liberal Democrat, said the election results would not deflect
his party from its work in government and the coalition parties
would continue to work “effectively” together.  Mid-Term Blow  “Parties in government in the mid-term -- especially when
we’re having to take difficult decisions -- do suffer in local
elections,” Alexander told Sky News television. “The task for
the whole coalition is to carry on, to stick to the task, to
deliver on the plan set out, particularly to deliver on the plan
for the economy.”  Business Secretary Vince Cable said there was “very strong
support” for Clegg within the party. “We’ve taken the
punishment,” he told the BBC, pointing out that the
Conservatives had few council seats to lose in cities such as
Manchester and Liverpool, where the Liberal Democrats lost
seats.  The Conservatives told activists ahead of the votes to
expect to lose as many as 1,100 seats among the 9,450 being
contested and said  Labour  might gain between 1,300 and 1,800,
according to a person familiar with the calculations.  ‘Pretty Bad’  “The news for Labour is pretty bad. So far Labour are only
2 percent ahead of the Tories,”  Steven Fielding , head of the
Centre for British Politics at Nottingham University, said in a
phone interview. “In these elections, people tend to be more
generous to opposition parties. Labour should be in the 40s.”  Fielding said that Cameron is “the winner of the night.”
His main challenge is managing “the fallout in terms of the
coalition. He may feel he can be a bit more generous” toward
the Liberal Democrats.  A former Liberal Democrat lawmaker, Evan Harris, the vice-
chairman of the party’s federal policy committee, said Clegg
will need to change the way he deals with the Conservatives in
the coalition and be less “collegiate” in his approach.  “He has got to deliver a strategy change, which is to do
more than point out what we have achieved but also point out
what bits of the program come from a Conservative philosophy
that we do not share,” Harris told the Press Association
newswire.  No Trade-Off  Foreign Secretary  William Hague , a Conservative, said the
Liberal Democrat decision to join the coalition “will be
vindicated over time.”  “This is a one-year event in a five-year government,” he
told  BBC  Radio 4’s “Today” program. “If the government
succeeds in pursuing its main policies, then the position of
everyone in that government will be strong and will be
recognized as such. We don’t see it as a trade-off between one
party and another.”  The Liberal Democrats also lost seats in the Scottish
Parliament, where First Minister  Alex Salmond ’s pro-independence
 Scottish National Party  won the first overall majority since the
129-seat assembly was established in 1999. The result gives
Salmond a second term and paves the way for a referendum on
Scottish independence.  Labour just failed to gain a majority in the Welsh
Assembly, winning 30 seats in the 60-member legislature, a gain
of four seats. The party had been in coalition with the
nationalist Plaid Cymru before the election.  Counting of votes from yesterday’s referendum on switching
the system to elect House of Commons lawmakers from first-past-
the-post to the Alternative Vote, a move that’s supported by
Clegg and opposed by Cameron, will start at 4 p.m. today.  A YouGov Plc online poll conducted yesterday found support
for preserving the current system had increased to 62 percent
from 60 percent in its last pre-referendum opinion poll. YouGov
questioned more than 3,000 people it had previously surveyed, it
said in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  