-- 
Climate Change Reduced Wheat, Corn Yields, U.S. Researchers Say

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-06T14:37:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/climate-change-reduced-wheat-corn-yields-u-s-researchers-say.html
Climate change  reduced wheat and corn
yields from 1980 to 2008, U.S. researchers said in a study
published in the journal Science.  World wheat production was 5.5 percent lower in that span
than it would have been without any change in temperatures and
rainfall, the researchers said. Corn output fell 3.8 percent
compared to a model without a changing climate, the study
showed.  “According to the authors, the drop-off in production may
be responsible for the 6 percent rise in food prices since
1980,” Science said. “That’s a $60 billion a year jump in what
consumers paid for food.”  World food prices rose to near a record in April as grain
costs increased, the  United Nations ’ Food and Agriculture
Organization said yesterday. Corn and wheat prices more than
doubled in the past decade in Chicago trading.  The yield gap was calculated by David B. Lobell from
 Stanford University , Wolfram Schlenker at  Columbia University 
and Justin Costa-Roberts of the National Bureau of Economic
Research. They compared actual production to a model simulating
yields for wheat, corn, rice and soybeans since 1980 without
climate-change effects.  “Climate trends were large enough in some countries to
offset a significant portion of the increases in average yields
that arose from technology, carbon-dioxide fertilization and
other factors,” the researchers said.  Soybean and rice yields “remained unaffected on a global
scale” by climate change, they found.  Science is published by the Washington-based  American
Association  for the Advancement of Science.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 