-- 
Clinton Calls on Nations to Cooperate Against Food Costs Near Record Highs

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-06T11:41:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/clinton-calls-on-nations-to-cooperate-against-rising-food-costs.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
called on the world to fund agriculture and counter the
destabilizing effects of food prices close to record highs.  Prices for staples such as corn and rice this year surged
to the highest level in more than two years. The Food and
Agriculture Organization’s index of 55 commodities rose to 232.1
points in April, down from an all-time high of 237.2 in
February.  “We must act now cooperatively and collaboratively to
blunt the impact of rising food prices,” Clinton said, speaking
to about 400 international delegates at the FAO, an arm of the
 United Nations  in Rome.  The cost of living in the U.S. rose at its fastest pace
since December 2009 in the 12 months ended in March, the same
month in which Chinese consumer prices rose by the most since
2008. The  European Central Bank  raised  interest rates  on April
7, joining  China ,  India , Poland and Sweden in a bid to control
inflation partly blamed on food costs. Costlier food also
contributed to riots across northern Africa and the Middle East
that toppled leaders in Egypt and Tunisia this year.  Clinton and President Barack Obama have funneled
administration resources into food security, which the U.S. sees
as integral to stabilizing developing countries.  At the G8 Summit in L’Aquila,  Italy  in July 2009, global
leaders said they would “act with the scale and urgency needed
to achieve sustainable global food security.” Obama pledged at
least $3.5 billion over three years to help leverage more than
$18.5 billion in support of a global approach.  Agricultural Chain  The  Feed the Future  program that Clinton’s State Department
and the U.S. Agency for International Development oversee aims
to “strengthen the entire agricultural chain,” Clinton said.  That includes creating better seeds, connecting farmers to
local and larger markets, and encouraging crop diversity and
better nutrition, Clinton said.  She urged delegates to renew their commitment to
sustainable agriculture and food security.  “We’ve learned a lot but we haven’t applied it all and we
haven’t brought it to scale,” Clinton said, acknowledging that
this was hard to do even within her own government.  “If we do not act now to increase the opportunity to
increase security we may never catch up,” said Clinton, who is
wrapping up two days of meetings in  Rome .  Food output will have to climb by 70 percent from 2010 to
2050 as the world population swells to 9 billion and rising
incomes boost meat and dairy consumption, the FAO forecasts.
Producing 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds) of pork can take 3.5
kilograms of feed, U.S. Department of Agriculture data shows.  About 44 million people have been pushed into poverty
since June by the “dangerous levels” of food prices,  World
Bank  President Robert Zoellick said in February. Another 10
million may join them should the UN food index rise another 10
percent, the World Bank said April 16. The number of hungry
people in the world globally declined last year to 925 million
from more than 1 billion in 2009, according to the FAO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sharon Lindores at 
 slindores@bloomberg.net  