-- 
Coca-Cola Juice Trademark Lawsuit Against PepsiCo Resolved

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-05-06T19:23:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/coca-cola-pepsico-settle-trademark-lawsuit-over-fruit-juice-packaging.html
A  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  trademark-infringement
lawsuit against PepsiCo Inc. over fruit-juice packaging was
dismissed after the companies reached a settlement. Terms of the
settlement weren’t disclosed.  U.S. District Judge Sim Lake signed an order dismissing the
case after the world’s two biggest soft-drink makers submitted a
joint motion seeking to terminate it, according to a filing
yesterday in federal court in Houston.  “All matters in dispute in this case have been fully and
finally resolved by the parties,” both sides said in court
papers.  Coca-Cola, based in Atlanta, sued its smaller rival in
October claiming that the packaging for PepsiCo’s low-calorie
Trop50 fruit juice line would “likely deceive consumers and
dilute the quality” of Coca-Cola’s Simply brand of premium
juices.  A trial had been set for June. Lake told lawyers for Coca-
Cola and Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo in December that they
should try to settle out of court to avoid the expense of trial.  “We are pleased we were able to amicably resolve this
dispute,” Dan Schafer, a Coca-Cola spokesman, said in a
telephone interview. “We will continue to diligently protect the
Simply brand’s iconic and distinctive packaging against
imitators and copycats.”  ‘Confidentiality Agreement’  Citing a confidentiality agreement, Schafer declined to say
whether PepsiCo must alter its packaging design as a result of
the settlement. Timothy Durst, an attorney for PepsiCo, declined
to comment, citing the confidentially agreement.  Simply and Trop50 juices are both packaged in clear plastic
carafes with oversized green screw caps.  Coca-Cola introduced the Simply line in 2001, according to
court papers. PepsiCo began selling Trop50 juices in paper
cartons in 2009 and repackaged the product in the clear plastic
carafes last year, according to court filings.  The case is Coca-Cola Co. v. PepsiCo Inc., 10-04184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  