-- 
Consumer Credit in U.S. Increased $6 Billion on Auto Loans, Card Purchases

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-05-06T19:26:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/consumer-credit-in-u-s-increased-6-billion-on-auto-loans-card-purchases.html
U.S. consumer borrowing rose for a
sixth straight month in March, led by a gain in non-revolving
credit, which includes auto loans, and a pickup in credit-card
use.  The $6 billion increase followed a $7.6 billion rise in
February, the  Federal Reserve  said today in Washington.
Economists projected a $5 billion gain in the measure of credit
card debt and non-revolving loans for March, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Payroll gains may be giving Americans the ability to
ratchet up their borrowing. Employers last month added more jobs
than forecast, indicating the economic expansion is withstanding
higher fuel prices.  “Consumers are feeling a little more confident about the
economic outlook and their own financial situation,” said
 Russell Price , senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in
 Detroit . “Things will improve incrementally from here. As job
growth continues, we should continue to see pretty good  consumer
spending .”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 37 economists ranged
from gains of $2 billion to $8 billion after a previously
reported $7.6 billion rise in February.  The U.S. added 244,000 jobs in April, a report from the
Labor Department showed today. Economists projected a 185,000
increase, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. The jobless rate rose to 9 percent.  Credit Cards  Revolving debt, which includes credit cards, increased $1.9
billion in March, the second gain in four months, according to
today’s Fed data. Non-revolving debt, including educational
loans and loans for autos and mobile homes, rose $4.1 billion
for the month. The Fed’s report doesn’t track debt secured by
real estate, such as home equity lines of credit.  The increase in non-revolving debt was led by an unadjusted
$6.2 billion rise in federal government lending for education.  Auto sales in March slipped to a seasonally adjusted 13.06
million annual rate from 13.38 million a month earlier,
according to industry reports.  “We continue to see good solid signs of progress despite
some of the challenges that remain” for the economy,  Don
Johnson , vice president of U.S. sales for  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
said during an April 1 teleconference. “A recovering job market
is going to be the most important factor for the  U.S. economy  at
this stage, and we do anticipate that this is going to continue
to improve.”  American Express  American Express Co., the biggest issuer based on customer
spending, announced April 21 that first-quarter profit increased
and that it reduced funds set aside to cover bad loans.  “Total revenues grew at the healthiest pace since before
the recession,” Kenneth I. Chenault, chief executive officer of
American Express, said in a statement.  Capital One Financial Corp. reported the same day that its
first-quarter profit also rose as fewer credit-card borrowers
defaulted.  “The period of shrinking loans through the Great Recession
came to an end,” Richard D. Fairbank, chief executive officer
at Capital One, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  