-- 
Cooling Probably Will Return to Part of the East in Mid-May

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-05-06T13:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/cooling-probably-will-return-to-part-of-the-east-in-mid-may.html
The eastern U.S. between the
 Mississippi River  and the Atlantic Seaboard will probably be
cooler than normal in mid-May, according to forecasters.  The outlook for May 16 to May 20 predicts the South will be
cool, while the Northeast has relatively seasonal temperatures
and the  Rocky Mountains  and most of Canada experience a warm
period, according to  Matt Rogers , president of  Commodity Weather
Group LLC .  MDA EarthSat Weather predicts a similar pattern. However,
it looks for the cooling to extend farther to the west, into
Iowa and Missouri.  Natural-gas traders monitor weather forecasts to determine
whether temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy or sell gas futures. Commodity traders
watch precipitation forecasts for impact on planting and yields.  Rogers’ 6- to 10-day forecast calls for a pocket of cooler
air to develop in the upper Great Plains May 11 to May 15. The
majority of the country will have seasonable temperatures, while
the Rockies and most of central  Canada  may be warmer than
normal, he said.  MDA predicts that cooling in the Great Plains will be
larger and another pocket of cold air will develop across
eastern  New England .  Light Rain  Rain is expected to remain light enough through the weekend
for field work, according to CWG’s agriculture forecast.
Missouri, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky may receive more
rain from May 11 to May 20, possibly slowing agricultural work
there.  “This will also not help  flooding  concerns in the lower
Mississippi Valley, although a current dry break that lasts
through the middle of next week is beneficial,” CWG said.  The Mississippi and Ohio rivers are experiencing record
flooding that may extend well into May.  New York ’s average temperature for mid-May is usually about
62 degrees Fahrenheit (17 Celsius), according to  MDA  in
Gaithersburg, Maryland. The average is 58 degrees in Chicago and
 Boston , 62 in Philadelphia, 69 in Atlanta and 73 in Dallas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  