-- 
Correa Seeks Tighter Control of Press, Courts in Ecuador Vote

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-05-06T11:40:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/correa-seeks-tighter-control-of-press-courts-in-ecuador-vote.html
Ecuadoreans will vote tomorrow on
changes to their constitution for the second time in less than
three years as President  Rafael Correa  seeks greater control
over the judiciary and restrictions on banks and the press.  Correa, a 48-year-old former economics professor, proposed
the referendum in December to combat crime, and then added
proposals to strip banks and national media companies of
holdings outside their specific industry. Correa also wants to
create a government panel to regulate the content of television
channels and newspapers.  The vote is tantamount to a referendum on Correa’s
presidency, said Michel Levi, coordinator of the Andean Center
of International Studies at the Universidad Andina in  Quito .
Approval would signal Correa may have enough support to push
through controversial legislation, including a water law that
would change rules for mining and oil companies, Levi said.  “A win would be a blank check for the government,” Levi
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It will be an
administration with a very strong executive with a lot of
capacity for action.”  A survey by  Cedatos Gallup , published April 27, found 59.5
percent of voters supported the changes, while 40.5 percent said
they would vote against them. The survey of 3,750 eligible
voters, conducted between April 20 and April 26, has a margin of
error of plus or minus 5 percentage points.  Correa, who has sparred with bankers and the media, which
he calls corrupt and accuses of fomenting unrest against his
administration, is also asking voters to approve longer prison
sentences for violent crimes and a restructuring of the nation’s
judicial system.  Bull-Fighting, Gambling  Among his proposals are the criminalization of
“unjustified” profits and the failure to enroll employees in
the state pension system, as well as bans on bull-fighting and
gambling.  Correa took office in 2007 promising to rewrite the
constitution and reduce poverty in a nation where the  United
Nations  estimates about 40 percent of the population can’t meet
basic needs.  That constitution, approved in a September 2008 referendum,
stripped the central bank of its autonomy and expanded state
control over “strategic” industries including oil and mining.  The proposed media restrictions have drawn criticism from
press and human rights groups, including the New York-based
Committee to Protect Journalists, over concern the president
intends to censor free speech.  Government Crackdown  “We are deeply concerned about Ecuador’s commitment to
freedom of expression,” Joel Simon, the group’s executive
director, said in an April 18 letter to Correa published on the
CPJ’s  website . “We believe the referendum questions are aimed
at stifling voices that oppose your administration. We urge you
to immediately withdraw these questions and respect the
guarantees on free expression that are enshrined in the
constitution and international treaties.”  A government crackdown on political opponents and critics,
including lawsuits against at least three reporters and the
nation’s biggest newspaper, El Universo, for allegedly insulting
Correa, may be a sign the government plans to use any new powers
to silence dissenters, former President Osvaldo Hurtado said in
a May 3 e-mailed statement.  “Even though Correa is the most powerful president that
 Ecuador  has had since the early 20th century, he is determined
to gain full control of the two institutions over which his sway
is incomplete: the justice system and the media,” Hurtado said.
If voters approve changes, “he will have established a ‘perfect
dictatorship’ in Ecuador -- disguised under the cloak of
constitutional and popular legitimacy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito News at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  