-- 
Credit-Report Errors Rare, Industry-Funded Study Says

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-05-06T18:39:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/credit-report-errors-rare-industry-funded-study-says-correct-.html
(Corrects reference to FICO scores in ninth paragraph of
story published May 5.)  Less than one percent of consumer
credit reports contain errors that lead to a significant change
in the score, according to a study commissioned by the three
largest credit-reporting companies.  “We found that a vast majority of credit reports are
accurate and that it is rare for a credit report error to
materially impact a consumer’s access to credit,” said  Michael
Turner , the head of the Durham, North Carolina-based  Policy and
Economic Research Council , which conducted the study.  The council said it surveyed 2,338 people from February to
May 2010 and examined their credit reports. David Musto, a
professor of finance at the Wharton School of the  University of
Pennsylvania  who was hired by the council to review the
examination, called it “a well-executed study, in that the
sample is large and appears to be representative.”  The U.S. credit reporting business is dominated by  Equifax
Inc. (EFX)  of Atlanta, Chicago-based TransUnion LLC and Dublin-based
Experian Plc.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which is
scheduled to begin work on July 21, will have jurisdiction over
consumer credit firms. Under the law that created it, the bureau
has to produce a study by then on the differences between
reports provided to creditors and those given to consumers who
are the subject of the reports.  Consumer Group  Ed Mierzwinski , director of the consumer program at the
 U.S. Public Interest Research Group , said in an interview that
the industry study may have underestimated the error rate by
overestimating the number of consumers who were satisfied by the
bureaus’ dispute resolution process. Other reports, he said,
have shown an error rate closer to 25 percent.  The planned CFPB report is “the holy grail that we have
been looking for but have not gotten access to,” Mierzwinski
said. “That is the study we need.”  Elizabeth Warren , the White House and Treasury adviser
charged with setting up the new agency, met in March with Bobby Mehta, the chief executive officer of TransUnion, her
appointment calendar shows.  The council’s study found that 0.93 percent of the
consumers surveyed had disputes with credit-reporting firms that
led to their credit scores rising by 25 points or more. Also,
0.5 percent of those surveyed had a dispute that led to their
scores changing enough to affect their access to credit.  FICO scores can range between 300 and 850. Generally
speaking, a score lower than 620 can make it difficult for
consumers to get credit, while a score above 650 signals good
credit. The report discusses credit scores in terms of
VantageScore, a similar system developed by the major credit
firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 