-- 
Toronto-Dominion Targets New York, Miami in Commercial-Product Expansion

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-05-06T04:05:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/td-bank-targets-new-york-miami-in-commercial-product-expansion.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  will try to
boost commercial banking in markets including  New York ,  Boston ,
 Washington  and Miami as Canada’s second-largest lender expands
its U.S. consumer-banking network.  “How many banks get to call Boston, D.C. and Miami
emerging-growth markets?” Walter Owens, Toronto-Dominion’s head
of U.S. commercial banking, said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. “You only have to take a
small amount of share and it’s a tremendous growth rate for the
bank.”  Toronto-Dominion has spent more than $25 billion during the
past seven years building a U.S. consumer-banking network from
 Maine  to  Florida . The Toronto-based lender is using its Aaa
long-term rating from Moody’s Investors Service to help build
relationship with clients, Owens said.  “It’s really our ability to bring the entire bank to a
customer,” Owens said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.
“The banking business, especially on the commercial side, is a
local business, and we’re capable of bringing a relationship
with a seasoned banker who’s a decision maker right to a
customer’s doorstep.”  Owens, 50, said that each location it opens includes a team
of commercial bankers that target community businesses. The bank
is also offering services from its Toronto-based TD Securities
investment bank to 32,000 U.S. commercial clients, such as
syndicated lending and interest-rate swaps.  U.S. personal and commercial banking accounted for 25
percent of Toronto-Dominion’s C$5.46 billion in  revenue  in the
latest quarter. The bank doesn’t break out U.S. commercial
banking as a separate business.  Owens, who  joined  Toronto-Dominion in 2008 from  CIT Group
Inc. (CIT) , where he served as president of corporate finance, said
the plan is to cross-sell more products to commercial clients
from the current level of 2.8 products per customer. He didn’t
give a specific target.  Part of that increase will come from the bank’s $6.3
billion purchase of auto lender Chrysler Financial Corp., which
closed last month, Owens said.  “We’re pretty excited about what we can do around that,”
said Owens, who cited cash management, insurance and wealth
management as examples of potential products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  