-- 
Dangote Cement Plans London Share Sale in Bid to More Than Double Output

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-05-06T12:49:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/dangote-cement-plans-london-share-sale-in-bid-to-more-than-double-output.html
Dangote Cement Plc (DANGCEM) , Nigeria’s biggest
company by market value, plans to raise funds in a  London  share
sale before the end of 2012 as it moves to more than double
output in two years, Chairman  Aliko Dangote  said.  The Lagos-based company plans to invest $3.9 billion over
the next 28 months to boost cement output to 50 million metric
tons by 2013 from an estimated 20 million tons this year,
Dangote said today in an interview in Cape Town, where he is
attending the  World Economic Forum  on Africa.  The cement maker will sell global depositary receipts in
London before the end of next year to raise funds to help expand
the business, Dangote said, without giving details of how much
it plans to raise from the share sale. The company will probably
seek between $3 billion and $5 billion, two people with
knowledge of the sale told Bloomberg News on Dec. 6.  “We have a major infrastructure deficit in  Africa ,”
Dangote said. “In Nigeria, we have an 18 million-homes deficit.
This will continue to grow because growth in population in
Nigeria is 3 percent per annum. Definitely, we need cement to
drive that growth.”  Growth in Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation of 150
million, will fuel most of the demand for cement in coming years
as the need for housing and infrastructure projects climb,
Dangote said. Nigeria, Africa’s largest oil producer, is
forecast to expand 6.9 percent this year, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  Dangote Cement shares rose the most in more than a week
today, climbing 1.9 percent to 123.51 naira as of 12 p.m. in
Lagos, giving the company a market value of 1.9 trillion naira
($12.3 billion).  The company’s expansion plans will focus now on sub-Saharan
Africa, Dangote said.  “Right now our own area of business and focus is Africa,”
he said. “We are not indebted, and have a lot of room to
expand. We are looking at organic growth first and if there’s
any opportunity outside Africa that will be secondary. We’ll
look at it on merit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in  Cape Town  via at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 