-- 
Delta Offers First Buyout Since 2009 as Fuel Spurs Seating Cuts

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-05-06T20:17:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/delta-air-to-cut-capacity-4-early-retirement-to-trim-jobs.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  plans to reduce
capacity by at least 4 percent and trim the workforce with the
first buyout and retirement offers since 2009 as it grapples
with soaring fuel costs that led to a first-quarter loss.  Workers in the U.S. with 10 years of service whose age and
service total at least 55 years are eligible for the retirement
offers while employees with five years of service can take a
buyout, Chief Executive Officer Richard Anderson said today in
his weekly recorded message to employees. Both are voluntary.  Delta’s cut in available seats after the peak summer travel
season goes deeper than actions by U.S. rivals including  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and American Airlines parent  AMR
Corp. (AMR) , which plan to trim capacity growth by 1 to 3 percentage
points. Carriers may need more reductions after Labor Day, said
 Hunter Keay , an analyst at Wolfe Trahan & Co. in New York.  “I don’t want the sense of urgency to be removed” even
though crude  oil prices  fell by about $10 per barrel yesterday
to just under $100, said Keay, who recommends buying the shares.  Delta has said most of the capacity reductions will be
through an 8 to 10 percent cut on trans-Atlantic routes after
Labor Day, the first Monday in September, reversing previous
growth in European flights. Delta’s joint-venture partner  Air
France-KLM  hasn’t said yet how much it will reduce available
seats across the Atlantic.  Retiring More Jets  “Delta is correcting a problem they created along with
their JV partners, which is good,” Keay said. “They did over-
grow and now they’re correcting it.”  Delta plans to retire more of its least-efficient aircraft,
trim  capital spending  and continue to increase ticket prices in
additional efforts to cover rising fuel costs, Anderson said
today. The company had a $318 million loss in the first quarter
after jet-fuel costs surged 41 percent from a year earlier.  “In order for our business to thrive, we must think of the
current high prices as a permanent reality of our business,”
Anderson said, referring to oil. “The associated costs of doing
this flying must also be reduced.”  About 55,000 employees, or 70 percent of the workforce, are
eligible for the buyout and retirement program, said Keyra
Johnson, a spokeswoman for Delta. Most of them are mid-level
managers and front-line workers, she said.  Past Buyout Offers  Delta’s previous voluntary retirement and buyout offers
have been successful. In June 2008, the company cut 4,000 jobs
through similar methods, double the number it initially
targeted, and more than 2,000 workers accepted buyouts in 2009.
The carrier isn’t disclosing the target number for its new
program, Johnson said.  Delta has previously said it plans to retire 140 aircraft
in the next 18 months, including some widebody planes used on
international routes. Anderson didn’t specify which additional
types of planes would be removed from service.  Delta fell 1 cent to $11.21 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped 11 percent
this year, compared with a 4 percent decline in the Bloomberg
U.S. Airlines Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 