-- 
Deutsche Telekom, Telecom Italia Profits Slide on Woes in Southern Europe

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-05-06T10:48:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/deutsche-telekom-profit-declines-more-than-estimated-37-on-eastern-europe.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Europe’s biggest
telephone company, reported a 37 percent decline in first-
quarter profit, led by its Greek and Romanian units and as T-
Mobile USA lost customers.  Net income fell to 480 million euros ($698 million),
missing the 572 million-euro average estimate by analysts. Sales
dropped 7.7 percent to 14.6 billion euros, dragged down by
eastern Europe and after the Bonn-based company moved its U.K.
wireless operations into a venture with France Telecom SA.  Chief Executive Officer Rene Obermann is focusing on
improving profitability in the German market after agreeing to
sell the U.S. mobile-phone unit to AT&T Inc. for $39 billion in
March. T-Mobile USA lost 471,000 contract customers in the
quarter, contributing to a 14 percent decline in operating
income before depreciation and amortization to $1.19 billion.  “Contract losses in the U.S. were brutal while Germany is
looking increasingly healthy,” said Adrian Pehl, an analyst at
Equinet AG in  Frankfurt  with a “buy” recommendation on the
stock. “The quarter was definitely no highlight.”  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  today reported a 8.7 percent drop in
quarterly profit, also missing estimates, as sales in its home
market receded. The operator is increasingly relying on
contributions from its Brazilian and Argentine divisions.  Belgacom Cut  Belgacom SA (BELG) , the largest phone company in  Belgium , today
cut its revenue and earnings forecasts after quarterly sales
declined more than estimated.  Belgacom lost as much as 6.3 percent for its biggest fall
since July 2008 and traded at 24.91 euros, or 5.5 percent lower,
at 12:41 p.m. in Brussels. Deutsche Telekom slipped 0.3 percent
to 11.14 euros in Frankfurt. Telecom Italia gained 0.7 percent
to 1.01 euros on the Milan exchange.  Before today, Deutsche Telekom has gained 15 percent this
year, the second-best performance on the 21-company Bloomberg
 Europe  Telecommunication Services Index, which was little
changed. Telecom Italia had gained 3.8 percent.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization adjusted for some items dropped 8.4 percent to 4.48
billion euros, Deutsche Telekom said. Analysts had predicted
4.55 billion euros in adjusted Ebitda, the average of 18
estimates. Sales trailed the 14.8 billion-euro average estimate.  Business Cycle  “The difficult economic development in south and east
Europe is weighing on our late-cyclical business there,”
Obermann said on a conference call. “On the other hand we’re
struggling with regulatory meddling and special taxes.”  The company confirmed its full-year forecast for about 19.1
billion euros in adjusted Ebitda, with T-Mobile USA contributing
about $5.5 billion. The U.S. target is “ambitious,” Obermann
said. A goal to earn about half of group revenue in designated
growth areas by 2015 won’t be affected by the sale of the U.S.
unit, the company said.  The  T-Mobile USA  sale, pending regulatory approval, is
expected to complete in the second quarter of 2012 and will
improve Deutsche Telekom earnings by 1.5 billion euros per year,
Obermann said. That includes a reduction in interest expenses
and an expected $600 million in annual dividend payments from a
stake in AT&T the German company will gain, the CEO said.  Obermann is targeting growth in mobile-data traffic and
online consumer services as customers cancel fixed lines in
favor of smartphones. The U.S. business makes up for about a
quarter of the 10 billion-euro revenue target in mobile Internet
services, set for 2015, Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges said on the call. The company “can get close” to its
overall growth are targets even without the U.S., Obermann said.  Mobile Data  Deutsche Telekom plans to invest 10 billion euros in its
German business through 2012. It aims to connect 150,000 to
200,000 homes to its fiber-optics network this year and
“hundreds of thousands” more in 2012, the CEO said.  The German operations increased adjusted Ebitda by 3.7
percent to 2.38 billion euros. Excluding T-Mobile USA,  Germany 
now accounts for more than half of the company’s revenue and
about two thirds of earnings.  Germany’s network regulator reduced so-called mobile
termination rates last year, limiting income from Deutsche
Telekom charging rivals including  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  to call users of its network.  Deutsche Telekom’s European operations excluding Germany
reported a drop in fixed lines of 7.4 percent to 11.1 million
lines and a decline in mobile-phone customers by 2.5 percent to
59.3 million users.  Greece , where the company controls  Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO) , led declines along with
Romania and  Hungary . Earnings also fell in  Poland  and the
Netherlands because of spending to attract new customers.  Revenue in the European segment will probably grow again
from 2013, Hoettges said, declining to be more specific.  Deutsche Telekom and  France Telecom SA (FTE)  last month announced
plans to save a combined annual 1.3 billion euros by jointly
purchasing phones,  network equipment , service platforms and
other technology infrastructure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  