-- 
Diesel From Soy Sparks $560 Million Investment by ADM, Cargill

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-05-06T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/diesel-from-soybeans-sparks-560-million-investment-by-adm-cargill.html
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the
largest grain processor, and Cargill Inc. are spearheading a
push to invest about $560 million in new biofuel refineries in
 Brazil , a country that already has twice the capacity it needs.  The U.S. agribusinesses have joined Brazilian companies
that are expanding facilities in a bet the government will
double to 10 percent the amount of biofuel that must be blended
into petroleum-based diesel, driving up demand overnight.  With oil above $100 a barrel, President  Dilma Rousseff 
is looking for alternative fuels to fill trucks’ tanks and keep
a lid on inflation. Expanding production would also boost the
economy of Brazil’s impoverished center-west region, where most
of the industry is based. The risk is the country will be awash
in unneeded biofuel, said Roberto Rodriguez Labastida, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “There’s far more biodiesel refineries online than are
necessary,” Rodriguez Labastida said from the research group’s
office in  London . “I wouldn’t say it’s smart to invest” in any
more facilities to process soybeans into fuel.  Brazil demands that diesel sold at the pump contain 5
percent biofuel. It’s the third-largest market by capacity after
the U.S. and  Germany . Executives at four refiners said they
expect the government to double that to 10 percent within three
years, giving Brazil the world’s highest biodiesel blending
rate.  Edison Lobao, Brazil’s Minister of Mines and Energy, is
considering a higher blend rate as long as there’s enough
vegetable-oil that can be processed into fuel, according to a
statement posted on the ministry’s website May 4. He did not say
how much it may be increased.  A Cargill spokesman declined to discuss the company’s
biodiesel plans. ADM and  Bunge Ltd. (BG) , another U.S. agribusiness
approved to build in Brazil, did not respond to inquiries.  Europe , U.S. Overcapacity  Overcapacity is also an issue in Europe, where plants are
operating at about 40 percent of potential, and in the U.S.,
which according to some measurements is running at about 24
percent, according to Claus Keller, senior analyst of Ratzeburg,
Germany-based biofuel consulting company F.O. Licht.  Doubling the concentration would rocket demand for the fuel
and would cut imports of petroleum-based diesel, easing Brazil’s
balance of trade.  “Brazil is bound to increase the biodiesel blend to 7
percent in the next 5 months,” said Paulo Jose Fuga, a manager
at Fuga Couros SA. The Marau, Brazil-based leather maker and
meat processor is spending 22 million reais ($13.6 million) on a
biodiesel plant that will process as much as 108 million liters
(29 million gallons) a year beginning in February.      He
forecast the requirement reaching 10 percent by 2014.  21 Projects  The Fuga project is one of  21  in Brazil, either new plants
or expansions of existing ones, that received permits in the
last year to begin construction from fuel regulator Agencia
Nacional do Petroleo, Gas Natural e Biocombustiveis.  Developers include Decatur, Illinois-based Archer-Daniels-
Midland’s local unit, ADM do Brazil Ltda.; Minneapolis-based
Cargill; and Bunge, based in  White Plains ,  New York . Together
they are set to add slightly more than 2.2 billion liters of
annual capacity, increasing the production base by about 38
percent, according to the regulator.  New biodiesel units in Brazil cost about $0.25 a liter to
build, according to data compiled by London-based New Energy
Finance. Rodriguez Labastida estimates that refiners are
investing more than $560 million to boost their capacity, based
on construction permits they have received.  Refiners, which make the fuel by treating vegetable oils or
animal fats with alcohol in a chemical reaction, say they need
more capacity to keep pace with rising demand for the standard
diesel with which it’s mixed.  Rising Consumption  Even without the blending increase, national consumption of
the fuel is expected to rise by 6 percent a year over the next
decade, according to a Ministry of Mines and Energy  projection .  The producers are overly optimistic about their sales
outlook because national output capacity is growing faster than
demand, according to F.O. Licht’s Keller.  There’s “already strong competition for volumes,” in the
government’s quarterly auctions for the fuel, he said. “That’s
only going to increase as more plants start operations.”  Only biodiesel projects with access to cheap raw materials,
like soybean and animal fats, or “at minimum, ownership over a
seed crushing plant,” make economic sense, Keller said. “I’d
only build a project if I had access to the feedstock for the
next 10 years.”  More Refineries  There are about 60 biodiesel refineries selling fuel in
Brazil with production capacity of 5.9 billion liters a year,
according to fuel regulator  ANP . That’s up from 47 at the start
of 2010.  The average price of biodiesel in a government-organized
auction in February was 2.05 reais a liter, down 11 percent from
the previous auction in November, according to ANP.  Soybean oil 
was selling for 2.14 reais a liter on April 28 in  Sao Paulo ,
according to information compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil imported 9 billion liters of diesel last year,
according to the Secretary of External Commerce. Increasing the
percentage of biodiesel in the fuel sold at retail would
decrease the amount of standard diesel in drivers’ tanks and
would have saved the country about $2.2 billion in the first
half of 2010 on imports, according to Brazil’s biodiesel trade
group Uniao Brasileira do Biodiesel.  Vegetable Oil Supplies  Keller questioned the impact of a higher blend rate on
Brazil’s farmers. A 10 percent requirement may require an
additional 2.4 billion liters of vegetable oil to produce,
double the current level, he said.  That new blend obligation may consume as much as 69 percent
of the 7.4 billion liters of soyoil that the Brazilian vegetable
oil trade group Associacao Brasileira das Industrias de Oleos
Vegetais predicts will be produced in the 2011 to 2012 harvest
season. About 84 percent of Brazilian biodiesel was derived from
soy in February, according to ANP.  That would drive up prices for soy, raising production
costs for refineries, Keller said. “Some producers may not be
able to deliver” their product “under those conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  