-- 
Dollar May Fall Back to Record Versus Yen on Ichimoku: Technical Analysis

-- B y   H i r o k o   K o m i y a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-05-06T05:39:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/dollar-may-fall-back-to-record-versus-yen-on-ichimoku-technical-analysis.html
The dollar may fall back toward the
postwar record low it reached against the yen in March,
according to Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., citing chart patterns.  The U.S. currency has traded below its conversion line on
an ichimoku chart on most days since April 13 and yesterday fell
below the measure’s so-called cloud. The first leading-span
line, or the top of the cloud, was at 81.60 yen and will rise to
83.03 yen in the coming weeks, while the second leading-span
line remains below 81 yen.  “As the cloud is gradually thickening, the dollar is more
likely to decline if it fails to rebound above the cloud today
or tomorrow,” said  Hiroyuki Tanaka , chief technical analyst at
the unit of  Japan ’s third-largest bank by market value. “The
final target for the dollar is 76.25."  The dollar fell to 79.57 yen yesterday, the lowest since
Group of Seven nations intervened on March 18 to reverse gains
in Japan’s currency to a postwar record of 76.25 yen the day
before. The U.S. currency climbed 0.5 percent to 80.48 yen as of
2:17 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Ichimoku charts are used to predict a currency’s direction
by analyzing the midpoints of historical highs and lows. The
conversion line plots the sum of the highest high and lowest low
in the preceding nine trading days. The cloud refers to the area
between the first and second leading-span lines on the chart and
is used to show an area where buy orders may be clustered.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 