-- 
Euro Tumbles Most in a Year After Report Greece May Drop Common Currency

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-05-06T21:18:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/dollar-rises-as-u-s-payrolls-gain-more-than-economists-forecast-in-april.html
The euro tumbled the most in a year
against the dollar on speculation  Greece  may stop using the
currency, bolstering concern the nation’s debt crisis will
spread through the region.  Europe ’s shared currency fell against all of its 16 most-
traded peers even after Greece denied a report in Der Spiegel
magazine that the European Commission called a meeting to
discuss the situation. Futures traders raised bets as of May 3
to an almost four-year high that the euro would gain against the
dollar. The greenback rose versus the yen after U.S. employers
added more jobs than forecast.  “It does bring to the forefront the existential concerns
about the euro,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for
the foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at Bank of  New York  Mellon.
“It underscores the risks that have never really gone away but
had gone to the back burner.”  The euro dropped 1.5 percent to $1.4316 at 5 p.m. in New
York, from $1.4539 yesterday. It touched $1.4311, the lowest
level since April 19, and dropped 3.5 percent since May 4, the
biggest two-day decline since December 2008.  The common currency fell 0.9 percent to 115.44 yen, from
116.44. The dollar gained 0.7 percent to 80.63 yen, from 80.07.  The euro rose 8.6 percent this year through yesterday as
the  European Central Bank  last month raised its benchmark
interest rate for the first time since the financial crisis amid
speculation U.S. and Japanese policy makers will lag behind.  Net Longs  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the euro compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 99,516 on May 3,
the highest level since July 2007, figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The total
compared with net longs of 68,279 on April 26.  Greece is lobbying for easier terms on the 110 billion
euros ($164 billion) of bailout loans as speculation of a
default mounts a year after European leaders set up an
unprecedented emergency fund.  European finance officials are gathering in Luxembourg
today for an unscheduled meeting that may discuss proposals for
restructuring Greek debt, said two European officials familiar
with the situation. A German official said the discussions would
include a German paper on options for confronting Greece’s
growing debt load, which has spurred speculation by investors
that a restructuring was a likely outcome.  Greece isn’t considering abandoning use of the euro, the
Athens-based  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement
today on the Der Spiegel article. A spokesman for Luxembourg’s
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads euro-region finance ministers,
denied the magazine report.  Capital Flight  “A restructuring is at some point likely to happen, but
it’s not in anyone’s interest to have that happen now,”  Axel Merk , president of Merk Investments LLC in Palo Alto,
 California , said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Street Smart” with  Carol Massar  and Matt Miller. “If they
were to leave, it would be a flight of capital out of Greece;
there would be a concern of that spreading to other countries.”  The dollar strengthened yesterday versus the euro as the
ECB signaled it may not raise interest rates next month. The
central bank boosted its key rate in April by a quarter-
percentage point to 1.25 percent to curb inflation. It kept the
rate unchanged yesterday.  Trichet, at a news conference in Helsinki, refrained from
using the phrase “strong vigilance,” which might have signaled
a June boost. He instead said inflation risks will be watched
“very closely.”  Fed Versus ECB  The  Federal Reserve  has held its benchmark rate at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008 to spur the  U.S. economy .  Currencies of commodity exporters, which slumped yesterday,
were the top performers against the greenback today after the
U.S. payrolls report. Gains were capped as raw materials
including crude oil erased early advances after  Der Spiegel ’s
report on Greece. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw
materials fell 1.1 percent after rising as much as 1.5 percent.  Australia’s dollar gained for the first time in five days,
strengthening 1.1 percent to $1.0700. New Zealand’s dollar rose
0.8 percent to 79.07 U.S. cents in its first increase in five
days, while the Brazilian real appreciated 0.4 percent to 1.6149
per dollar.  Write-Off Concern  Greek bond yields and the cost of insuring the country’s
securities against default rose to records last week, rekindling
concern that a debt write-off or extension of repayment terms
may be needed to ease the nation’s fiscal crisis.  Greece’s refinancing needs of 58 billion euros are covered
this year by the loan package it received in 2010 from the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund . Next year, the
nation is supposed to regain market access and refinance at
least three-quarters of its maturing medium- and long-term debt,
and then fully fund debt rollovers beginning in mid-2013.  “The saga continues to unfold,” said  Richard Franulovich ,
a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New
York. “If you can get rid of debts and clean up the balance
sheet, it’s long-term positive for the euro.”  U.S. payrolls increased by 244,000 workers last month, the
biggest gain since May 2010, the Labor Department said today in
 Washington . Economists in a Bloomberg News survey projected an
April rise of 185,000. The jobless rate rose to 9 percent, the
first increase since November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  