-- 
Dong Devaluation Unlikely in Short Term, Standard Chartered Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-06T04:35:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/dong-devaluation-unlikely-in-short-term-standard-chartered-says.html
The Vietnamese dong’s recent rally
suggests the market sees “very little chance” of a devaluation
in the next three to four months, according to  Standard
Chartered Plc. (STAN)   The currency has strengthened 1.4 percent in the past month,
at the official  exchange rate , according to official prices from
banks data compiled by Bloomberg. On the so-called black market,
it gained 2 percent during April, according to data from Viet
Capital Securities in  Ho Chi Minh City .  The dong has been devalued four times in the last eighteen
months, most recently in February, when the currency’s value was
cut by about 7 percent. Recent government measures have
discouraged the holding of U.S. dollars and boosted the
Vietnamese currency, said Louis Taylor, the Ho Chi Minh City-
based chief executive of  Standard Chartered  Bank for  Vietnam ,
 Laos  and  Cambodia .  The dong’s rally “reflects people’s views that in the next
three to four months, there’s very little if any chance of
another devaluation,” Taylor told reporters yesterday in Hanoi.
The government measures are “increasing confidence in the
currency and underpinning its value,” he said.  The government has increased lenders’ reserve-requirement
ratios for foreign currencies and introduced an interest-rate
cap of 3 percent for dollar-denominated deposits. It’s also
prohibited the lending of gold and is phasing out gold deposits
at banks.  “The interest-rate differential between dollars and dong
is attractive enough to make people want to hold dong,” Taylor
said. “Whether there is another devaluation later in the year
will depend on how long that sentiment lasts.”  Central bank governor Nguyen Van Giau said on May 2 that
the foreign-exchange market has been “stable and within the
government’s control, especially during the past four weeks.”  The dong weakened 0.1 percent to 20,620 per dollar as of
11:23 a.m. in Hanoi, according to prices from banks compiled by
Bloomberg.  --Jason Folkmanis and Nicholas Heath in Hanoi Editors: Andrew Janes, James Regan  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Hanoi at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net  and
Nicholas Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  