-- 
Drought to Persist in China, U.S. Europe Wheat Areas, U.K. Forecaster Says

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-05-06T02:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/drought-to-persist-in-china-u-s-europe-wheat-areas-u-k-forecaster-says.html
Drought conditions may persist in
wheat-growing areas from  China , the world’s largest grower and
consumer, to the U.S. and Western Europe, hurting crops and
lifting prices, British Weather Services said.  The La Nina event is likely to continue to block rain from
moving into the wheat-growing regions in the U.S. and China
through mid-May, while the North Atlantic Oscillation will curb
significant rainfall in  France ,  Germany  and the U.K., preventing
the replenishment of soil moisture,  Jim Dale , a senior risk
meteorologist at British Weather said.  Dry weather may curb grain output, further boosting world
food prices that rose to near a record in April and adding to
pressure on central banks from Beijing to Brasilia to increase
 interest rates . About 44 million people have been pushed into
poverty since June by the “dangerous levels” of food prices,
World Bank President Robert Zoellick said in February.  “A lot of things are going in the wrong direction, with
areas that don’t usually get rains getting more rainfall, while
those areas where you’d expect rains, having drought,” said
Dale, who correctly predicted last month that drier conditions
will persist in China through this month. “Prices are going to
go higher rather than lower.”  Corn in  Chicago  has almost doubled in the past year and on
April 11 touched $7.8875, the highest price since June 2008. The
July contract dropped 0.2 percent to $7.075 a bushel at 10:14
a.m. Singapore.  La Nina is the cooling of the  Pacific Ocean  which can cause
flooding in  Southeast Asia  and dry conditions to corn and
soybean areas in  Argentina . The North Atlantic Oscillation is a
shift in atmospheric pressure that can determine U.S. weather.  Output Curb  Dry weather may jeopardize farmers’ plans to boost global
production and replenish stockpiles that have been drained after
the worst drought in at least half a century in Russia and
excessive rains in  Canada  and  Australia  slashed harvests of
food-quality wheat.  The International Grains Council  lowered  last month its
outlook on global wheat production in the 2011-2012 season by 1
million tons to 672 million metric tons, matching global demand,
because of “less than ideal conditions for some crops” in the
U.S., the European Union and China. Further losses to the crop
may cause production to lag behind demand for a second straight
year, draining inventories.  Dry weather threatens to curb output in growing regions in
China after similar conditions caused the winter-wheat crop in
the U.S., the largest shipper, to deteriorate, while  England  had
the hottest April in at least 352 years.  ‘Very Late’  “It’s getting very late now in the growing season,” Dale
said in a phone interview from  London , referring to the China
wheat crop. “I still think there’s trouble on this one.”  Shandong, the second-biggest wheat grower, has received as
much as 20 percent less rain this year compared with the average
in past years, Cngrain.com said in a report yesterday. Some
crops in the province’s southern regions have wilted or died
because of a lack of water, it said. The website is a unit of
the China Grain Reserves Corp., which manages state stockpiles.  In Jiangxi province, 253 millimeters (10 inches) of rain
have fallen in the past four months, 53 percent less than the
previous year, the Xinhua News Agency reported May 4. Rivers in
Jiangxi are at their lowest levels on record because of drought,
Xinhua reported April 28.  Rain Forecast  Still, China’s northern wheat-growing regions are forecast
to receive rain in the next few days, which may help ease
dryness affecting winter wheat, said researcher Xn121.com, which
is a division of the China Meteorological Administration.
Another round of rain may bring wetness to northern provinces
beginning May 9, according to the website.  While there may be “bits of rain” that may fall in the
wheat-growing regions, it won’t be enough to end the drought,
Dale said. “We’re seeing another two weeks of dry weather with
no real sign of a breakdown” in the pattern, he said.  The dry conditions persisting in Western Europe may spread
across  Russia , Dale said. Spring plantings of grains and other
crops across Russia fell by about half this year, Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  said in Moscow April 28.  Spring sowing covered 2.5 million hectares (6.2 million
acres) as of April 25, Putin said. That compares with 5.1
million hectares in the year-earlier period, according to
Agriculture Ministry data. The sowing is behind schedule because
of a cold spring, Putin said, although he still expects a
normal-sized crop to be planted.  British Weather Services is a London-based meteorological
company that provides weather-related risk analysis to
agriculture production, sports events and businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at o 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  