-- 
Duke Joins Harvard as Colleges Buy Back Credit-Crisis Debt

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-05-06T18:19:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/duke-joins-harvard-as-universities-buy-back-credit-crisis-debt.html
Duke University , which has the 15th
largest U.S. college endowment, yesterday bought back $500
million it borrowed amid the financial crisis when it sought to
bolster its cash position.  Duke paid a premium to investors to redeem the taxable
bonds before their scheduled maturity in 2014 and 2019. The
university, in Durham,  North Carolina , used $90 million of the
money raised in January 2009 to subsidize operations and
invested the rest in corporate securities, earning enough to
cover interest costs, said Tallman Trask, an executive vice
president.  “I had two-and-a-half years of insurance,” Trask said in
a telephone interview yesterday, referring to the availability
of the bond proceeds. “I didn’t really need it and in the end I
didn’t pay anything for it.”  Some of the wealthiest schools in the U.S. were forced to
borrow money at the height of the credit crisis as their
endowment returns plummeted and managers of their private-equity
investments accelerated demands for cash the universities had
committed. At least 15, including  Harvard University  and five
other Ivy League colleges, sold a combined $7.2 billion of
taxable bonds from December 2008 to November 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Duke joins Harvard in beginning to buy back the debt,
calling bonds before the final maturity dates, as their
endowments rebound and they shift their investments into easier-
to-sell assets, said John Nelson, managing director of higher-
education ratings at Moody’s Investors Service in  New York .  ‘More Flush’  “All of the universities that borrowed money are in a
better position, in a more liquid position,” said Nelson.
“They are more flush with cash and short-term investments.”  Harvard, the wealthiest university, with an endowment
valued at $27.6 billion as of June, notified investors last
month that it will redeem $300 million of $1.5 billion of
taxable bonds it sold in December 2008. The AAA rated securities
were set to mature in January 2014 and pay an annual interest
rate of 5 percent. They will be redeemed on June 2.  The redemption price to be paid by the school in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , hasn’t been set. Harvard also sold $1 billion of
tax-exempt debt at the height of the credit crisis.  Stanford University , near  Palo Alto ,  California , in January
 said  it will draw down half of the $800 million it placed in a
so-called liquidity fund after borrowing $1 billion in April
2009. The money will be spent on capital projects and
refinancing higher-cost debt, Randy Livingston, Stanford’s chief
financial officer, said by e-mail yesterday.  Duke’s Cost  Duke paid almost 15 percent more than face value to redeem
$250 million of its taxable bonds that were to mature in April
2019 and a 7.9 percent premium for $250 million that was to come
due in April 2014, according to Bloomberg data. The school’s
endowment gained 8.6 percent to $4.82 billion in the 12 months
through June 2010, according to a  report  from the National
Association of College and University Business Officers and the
Commonfund Institute.  The premium paid to redeem the bonds is less than the cost
of paying interest on the securities until they mature, Trask
said.  “Duke is doing what a prudent issuer should do if they
have the ability by calling their higher interest-bearing
debt,” Matthew Buscone, a portfolio manager at Breckinridge
Capital Advisors in  Boston , said by e-mail. Breckinridge, which
oversees $12 billion in assets, owned some of the redeemed
bonds, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  