-- 
Heineken Said to Be Considering Bid for Brazil’s No. 2 Brewer Schincariol

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-05-06T18:59:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/heineken-said-to-be-considering-bid-for-brazil-s-no-2-brewer-schincariol.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-largest
brewer by volume, is considering making an offer for Brazil’s
Primo Schincariol Industria de Cervejas e Refrigerantes SA,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Heineken, which sells beers including Amstel, is going
through the books of closely held Schincariol, Brazil’s second-
largest brewer behind Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, said the people,
who declined to be identified as the process is confidential.  Schincariol controls about 11 percent of Brazil’s beer
market, according to Nielsen data, while AB InBev has a share of
about 70 percent. The brewer is for sale for about $2 billion,
the Sunday Times reported last month. Heineken said yesterday it
got a 2 billion-euro ($2.9 billion)  credit line  to refinance
debt and back acquisitions.  Amsterdam-based Heineken is among brewers seeking to expand
in emerging economies as weak consumer confidence and increasing
competition stymie growth in Europe and the U.S. The company
bought five breweries in Nigeria and two in Ethiopia this year,
and spent 5.3 billion euros buying Fomento Economico Mexicano
SAB in April 2010 to expand in  Latin America .  Heineken brews beer through a partnership with Cervejarias
Kaiser SA in Brazil, the world’s third-largest beer market by
volume, according to data from Mintel International.  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-largest brewer, may also
be interested in bidding for Schincariol, the Sunday Times said
last month, without saying where it got the information.  Nigel
Fairbrass , a spokesman for the London-based maker of Grolsch and
Peroni, declined to comment today.  Schincariol declined to comment, according to an e-mailed
statement from FSB Comunicacoes, a communications company
representing the Brazilian beermaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 