-- 
Telecom Italia First-Quarter Net Income Drops on Sluggish Domestic Market

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-05-06T07:48:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/telecom-italia-first-quarter-net-income-drops-on-sluggish-domestic-market.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , Italy’s biggest
phone company, said first-quarter profit fell 8.7 percent, hurt
by declining revenue in its domestic market.  Net income dropped to 549 million euros ($799 million) from
601 million euros a year earlier, the Milan-based company said
in a statement today. Revenue advanced 10 percent to 7.07
billion euros. Net income had been estimated at 604 million
euros on sales of 7.07 billion euros, according to analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Telecom Italia and  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  are among former
phone monopolies in  Europe  that are suffering in their domestic
markets as sluggish economies and rivals’ price cuts take a
toll. Phone companies are seeking to offset their declining
domestic businesses in Europe by expanding in emerging, high-
growth regions.  “The international businesses sustain group growth with an
18 percent increase in organic revenues in  Latin America ,”
Chairman Franco Bernabe said in the statement.  The shares fell as much as 2.4 percent to 98 cents and
traded at 99 cents, down 0.6 percent, at 9:22 a.m. in Milan,
giving Telecom Italia a market value of 18.4 billion euros.  Deutsche Telekom AG, Europe’s biggest phone operator, said
today that first-quarter profit fell 37 percent, led by a
decline in earnings at the Greece and Romania units.  Telecom Italia’s  Tim Participacoes SA (TCSL4)  unit in  Brazil 
“continues to contribute to Telecom Italia group growth,”
Giovanni D’Amico, an analyst at UniCredit, said before today’s
earnings release. “We highlight that all eyes remain on the
domestic market.”  Deutsche Telekom  Telecom Italia in October bought control of  Telecom
Argentina SA (TECO2) , the country’s second-largest phone company, with
the purchase of an 8 percent stake from the Werthein family.  In Latin America, the company controls Tim Participacoes,
Brazil’s third-biggest mobile-phone company by market share. The
Brazilian company said May 2 that first-quarter net income
almost quadrupled to 213.5 million reais ($132 million) from
54.6 million reais a year earlier.  The Matrix SpA business unit, which designs and develops
Web products, mail and broadband services for Telecom Italia’s
clients, will be transferred back to the parent to “improve the
efficiency of a phase of the production process,” the company
said. Matrix, fully controlled by Telecom Italia, will be able
to focus on other markets, according to the release.  Domestic Business  To help it revive its flagging domestic performance,
Telecom Italia last month promoted Marco Patuano to chief
operating officer and managing director in charge of domestic
operations.  Telecom Italia said today domestic sales fell 7.6 percent
to 4.6 billion euros in the quarter, hurt by a 12 percent drop
in mobile revenue and a 4.8 percent fall in the fixed-line and
broadband business.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 3.6 percent to 2.93 billion euros. Domestic
Ebitda fell 8.8 percent to 2.24 billion euros.  “We now have less confidence that Telecom Italia’s anemic
domestic revenue growth will recover in coming quarters,”  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein, said before the
results were released. She had forecast the company’s wireless
revenue to fall 8.2 percent in  Italy  for the quarter and fixed-
line and broadband sales in the country to drop 4.3 percent.  Revenue, Ebitda Outlook  Telecom Italia repeated today that revenue excluding
currency swings, acquisitions and disposals will be little
changed this year. So-called organic revenue and Ebitda are
forecast to be “broadly stable” this year. Organic revenue was
“stable” in the first quarter and organic Ebitda dropped 3.6
percent in the period.  Telecom Italia’s adjusted net debt at the end of March fell
to 30.6 billion euros from 31.5 billion euros at the end of
2010. “Stronger operating free cash flow generation has enabled
us to make further debt reductions,” Bernabe said.  Telefonica and partners Mediobanca SpA, Assicurazioni
Generali SpA and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  own about 22.5 percent of
Telecom Italia through an entity called Telco SpA, according to
Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  