-- 
Emerging Market Stocks Post Steepest Weekly Drop Since February

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-05-06T22:13:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/emerging-stocks-poised-for-steepest-weekly-drop-since-may-2010.html
Emerging-market stocks fell this week,
sending the benchmark index to its biggest weekly decline since
February, as commodity prices plunged amid concern over global
economic growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 3.4 percent this
week. Today, the index rose 0.1 percent to 1,163.34 as of 4 p.m.
in  New York  after falling as much as 0.8 percent.  Brazil ’s
Bovespa gained 1.6 percent today while  Mexico ’s IPC index
declined 0.3 percent and  South Africa ’s FTSE/JSE Africa All
Share Index advanced 0.9 percent.  Emerging stocks erased earlier losses after U.S. payrolls
expanded by 244,000 last month, more than forecast and the
biggest gain since May 2010. The report indicated the world’s
largest economy may be weathering the impact of higher fuel
prices.  “Some of the fears that built up the last few days that
the  U.S. economy  was sliding away and would be hurt because of
the end of QE2 has all been allayed a little bit with these
payroll numbers,” said Geoffrey Dennis, emerging markets
strategist at Citi, referring to a Federal Reserve bond purchase
program known as quantitative easing which is scheduled to end
in June.  The dollar gained versus the yen, strengthening 0.7 percent
to 80.62 yen from 80.07 yesterday. The greenback rose 1.5
percent to $1.4316 per euro from $1.4539.  Commodities Rebound  Commodities dropped for a fifth consecutive day as the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials declined 1.4
percent, bringing the weekly decline to 11 percent, the most in
more than two years. Oil also capped its biggest weekly decline
in more than two years as crude for June delivery sank 2.6
percent to $97.18 a barrel in New York.  Silver has fallen 27 percent since April 29, the most since
at least 1975. Silver futures for July delivery fell 95 cents
today, or 2.6 percent, to settle at $35.287 an ounce on the
Comex in New York.  European finance officials held an unscheduled meeting
where they may have discussed options for restructuring Greek
debt, Bloomberg News reported, citing two European officials
familiar with the situation.  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the largest producer of motor fuels made from
coal and gas, increased 1.8 percent, leading the FTSE/JSE Africa
All Shares Index 0.9 percent higher, its first gain following
three days of declines.  Brazilian stocks rallied after four days of losses, rising
the most since February, as monthly inflation unexpectedly
slowed. Homebuilders rallied as PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes gained 5.6 percent as traders pared bets for
higher borrowing costs, boosting the outlook for companies that
depend on credit growth.  Kospi Rises  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  fell 1.6 percent after
Citigroup cut the ratings of four banks, citing the impact on
earnings of four increases in  reserve requirements  by the
central bank since December. Garanti Bankasi AS, the nation’s
largest lender by market capitalization, fell 2 percent.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  sank 1.5 percent and  Thailand ’s
SET Index lost 2.1 percent. Korea Zinc Co., which also produces
gold and silver, tumbled 7.6 percent in  Seoul  following declines
in precious metal prices.  The  Mexican peso  strengthened 0.8 percent, the most of 25
emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The ruble
depreciated 0.3 percent against the dollar and the won weakened
by 0.2 percent. The Brazilian real strengthened by 0.4 percent.  Thailand’s SET slumped the most among benchmark indexes in
 Asia , falling 2.1 percent, as Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva 
sought a royal decree to dissolve parliament for an election.
Vietnam’s VN Index sank 1.4 percent after Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung gave an economic-growth forecast at the bottom end of
the government’s earlier range.  Emerging Market Inflows  Emerging-market equity funds lured $1.3 billion for the
week ended May 4, down from net inflows of $1.8 billion the
previous week on concern inflation is accelerating, Citigroup
Inc. analysts led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report, citing
figures from EPFR Global.  Russia’s Micex Index jumped 2.2 percent, breaking a run of
four consecutive declines.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index gained 1.7
percent in Mumbai, snapping the longest stretch of losses in a
decade, as yesterday’s drop in commodity prices eased inflation
concerns. The measure had lost 7.1 percent in the prior nine
sessions, the longest losing streak since September 2001.  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s biggest lender, advanced
1.8 percent. Indian Oil Corp., the largest refiner, climbed 2.4
percent after Nomura Holdings Inc. upgraded the stock.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  gained one basis points to 282,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps fell 2.8 basis
points to 185.625.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  