-- 
Emerging-Market Fund Inflows Slow Amid Concern Inflation Is Accelerating

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-05-06T03:13:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/emerging-market-stocks-funds-withdrew-1-3-billion-in-week-citigroup-says.html
Emerging-market equity funds attracted
fewer inflows amid mounting concerns inflation in developing
nations is accelerating, according to a Citigroup Inc. report.  The funds lured $1.3 billion for the week ended May 4, down
from net inflows of $1.8 billion the previous week, Citigroup
analysts led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report, citing figures
from EPFR Global.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.7 percent to
1,154.16 as of 11:11 a.m. Singapore time, headed for its lowest
close since March 29. The gauge has lost 4.1 percent in the past
month, compared with a 0.2 percent increase in the MSCI World
Index of developed nations.  “Emerging central banks are tightening,” said  Gavin Parry , managing director for Parry International Trading Ltd. in
 Hong Kong . “Markets will be focusing now on the end of
quantitative easing and the curtailing of this liquidity line
that has been pumping up emerging-market asset prices.”  The Philippines and Malaysia yesterday joined  India  and
Vietnam in raising  interest rates  this week as nations
intensified their fight against inflation.  Asia  faces a
“serious setback” from surging oil and food prices that
threaten to push millions into extreme poverty, the Asian
Development Bank said on April 26.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas yesterday increased the rate it
pays lenders for overnight deposits to 4.5 percent from 4.25
percent in its second move this year, while Bank Negara Malaysia
lifted the benchmark overnight policy rate for the first time in
2011, boosting it by a quarter point to 3 percent.  India on May 3 doubled the magnitude of rate increases and
the State Bank of Vietnam raised borrowing costs the following
day for the fifth time in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 