-- 
Employment in U.S. Probably Slowed as Companies Curbed Spending

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-05-06T04:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/employment-in-u-s-probably-slowed-as-companies-curbed-spending.html
The pace of hiring in the U.S.
probably cooled in April as companies curbed spending in the
face of rising raw-material costs, economists said ahead of a
government report today.  Payrolls rose by 185,000 workers last month compared with a
216,000 advance in March, according to the median forecast of 86
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The jobless rate may have
held at 8.8 percent.  The economic recovery that began in June 2009 may need to
generate more jobs to ensure that consumers, whose spending
accounts for 70 percent of the economy, will be able to weather
rising fuel and food prices. An employment slowdown underscores
why Federal Reserve policy makers last week decided to forge
ahead with record monetary stimulus to bolster the expansion.  The current, “moderate” rate of job growth “is a pace
that really wouldn’t do much for the  unemployment rate ,” said
 Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc.
in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “There’s a lot of slack in the
economy, especially in the labor market. Higher gasoline prices
have been a restraint in the near-term.”  The Labor Department’s jobs numbers are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Bloomberg survey estimates range from payroll
increases of 118,000 to 325,000.  Private payrolls, which exclude government positions, are
forecast to rise by 200,000 following a 230,000 gain the
previous month, according to the survey median. The projected
April increase would be the smallest in three months.  Two-Year Low  The jobless rate dropped a percentage point over the four
months ended March to reach 8.8 percent, the lowest level in two
years. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey for April range from
8.6 percent to 9 percent.  While payrolls have grown each month since October, Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on April 27 that central bankers
would like to see more strength in the U.S. labor market, noting
that a recovery has been “quite slow.”  “The labor market is improving gradually,” Bernanke said
to reporters during the first-ever press conference following a
Federal Open Market Committee meeting. “We would like to make
sure that that is sustainable. The longer it goes on, the more
confident we are.”  Households may find it difficult to boost spending as they
pay more for groceries and gas. The average price of regular
gasoline was $3.99 a gallon on May 4, the highest since July
2008, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring
organization. Food costs rose 0.8 percent in March, also the
most since July 2008, data from the Labor Department showed last
month.  Stocks Retreat  Stocks have fallen over the past week on concerns that a
slowdown in U.S. growth during the first three months of the
year may be extending into the second quarter. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has declined 2.1 percent since April 29.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  fell 0.9 percent yesterday, the most
since April 18, after the biggest plunge in commodity prices
since 2009. Cheap fuel prices would help ease the damage to
 consumer spending .  “If we get gasoline prices down, that should help consumer
spending and in turn the job outlook,” said Raymond James’
Brown.  The economy expanded at a 1.8 percent annual pace in the
first quarter, down from the 3.1 percent rate the previous three
months, the Commerce Department said last week.  Growth Slowdown  Other economic measures are signaling a pause in the
expansion. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s indexes of
manufacturing and non-manufacturing companies both declined in
April.  Some companies are still planning to add workers. “We are
going to be hiring and growing employment in Puget Sound and in
 South Carolina  over the foreseeable future,” Jim McNerney,
chief executive officer of  Boeing Co. (BA) , said on an April 27
teleconference. “Production rates are fueling really an
unprecedented growth for commercial airplanes.”  Manufacturing employment is forecast to rise by 20,000 in
April after a 17,000 increase a month earlier, according to the
Bloomberg survey. In January, factory payrolls rose 53,000.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  