-- 
Merck, Circle, Mattel, Rosetta Stone: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-05-06T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/merck-circle-mattel-rosetta-stone-intellectual-property.html
Merck & Co. is close to settling
patent lawsuits against  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  over
a generic version of the cholesterol drug Vytorin, according to
a federal court document.  The two sides have asked to put on hold patent suits that
Merck’s Schering unit filed in 2009 and 2010 to prevent Teva
from selling a generic version of the drug. U.S. Magistrate
Judge Esther Salas in  Newark ,  New Jersey , delayed all actions
until June 1 “to finalize settlement,” the May 3 filing shows.  Vytorin generated $480 million in global sales in the first
quarter for Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck, the
company said May 3. That includes $247 million in U.S. sales,
said  Ron Rogers , a spokesman for Merck. The company had sued to
prevent Teva from selling copies of the medicine until patents
expire in 2014 and 2017.  Rogers said “the filing speaks for itself” when asked
about a potential agreement. Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for
Petah Tikva, Israel-based Teva, said the company had no comment.  The cases are Schering Corp. v. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA
Inc., 10cv1058 and 10-4473, both U.S. District Court, District
of New Jersey (Newark).  Boston Scientific Seeks $34 Million in Stent-Patent Trial  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , a maker of stents used to prop
open coronary arteries, sought $34 million in damages from
Johnson & Johnson’s Cordis Corp. for infringing a patent as a
jury trial began yesterday.  Boston Scientific, based in Natick,  Massachusetts , sued
Cordis in 2009 in  Minnesota  and the case was transferred to
 Delaware  the following year. U.S. District Judge Sue Robinson
told jurors in Wilmington yesterday that another jury in 2005
ruled Cordis infringed Boston Scientific’s patent 5,922,021.  “They ran out of appeals,” limiting the current trial to
determining damages, Paul A. Bondor, a lawyer for Boston
Scientific, said in his opening statement. He didn’t specify a
damage figure, saying experts would testify later.  Gregory Diskant, representing Cordis, said Boston
Scientific is seeking $34 million, or more than half of the
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit’s $60 million in sales of the stent.  “That’s nuts,” Diskant told the jury. Cordis made a
profit of $13.8 million from the sales, he said.  The case is Boston Scientific Corp. v. Cordis Corp.,
10CV315, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Circle Entertainment, Merlin Sued by Comcast Unit for ‘I-Walk’  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal City Studios unit sued an
amusement park operator and developers for trademark
infringement.  The lawsuit, filed April 29 in federal court in  Orlando ,
 Florida , relates to plans by Circle Entertainment Inc. and
Merlin Entertainments Group Holdings Ltd. to develop a complex
of retail stores, restaurants, bars and entertainment services
in Orlando.  Closely held Merlin, based in  London , operates the  Madame
Tussauds  wax museum, Legoland theme parks, the  London Eye  Ferris
wheel and Sea Life aquariums.  Universal objects to the use of “ I-walk”  to promote the
project. The proposed project is three miles from the Universal
Orlando Resort, which uses “ CityWalk ” and related terms as
trademarks. Universal claims the project developers are
“prominently displaying and featuring the I-walk marks in
promotions, articles and advertising.”  This mark is “confusingly similar” to the CityWalk
trademarks, Universal says, claiming developers made this choice
“to benefit from the goodwill generated by the CityWalk marks
over the past 18 years.”  Co-defendant with Merlin and Circle Entertainment is
Unicorp USA LLC of Orlando.  Merlin spokeswoman Sally Ann Wilkinson said the allegation
in the complaint “is not our issue.” The name of the project
“does not impact our attractions in any way,” she said.  Circle Entertainment didn’t respond immediately to an e-
mailed request for comment.  Universal asked the court to order the developer not to use
infringing marks, and for awards of money damages, defendants’
profits related to the alleged infringement, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Representing Universal are  Michael J. Beaudine  and  Lori T.
Milvain  of  Latham Shuker Eden & Baudine LLP  of Orlando.  The case is University City Studios LLC v. Unicorp USA,
6:11-cv-00720-GKS-GJK, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Florida (Orlando).  Mattel Sued by ‘Hillbillies’ Actress Over ‘Elly May’ Doll  Mattel Inc. (MAT) , the world’s largest toymaker, was sued for
infringement by the actress who played  Elly May Clampett  on
“The Beverly Hillbillies” television program.  According to the complaint filed May 4 in federal court in
Baton Rouge, Louisiana, the rights of actress Donna Douglas  are
infringed by an “ Elly May” Barbie doll  made and sold by
Mattel.  Even though the 274-episode show ended 40 years ago,
Douglas  still makes personal appearances in association with the
role , she said in her court papers.  Douglas said that she was harmed by El Segundo, California-
based Mattel’s introduction of the “Elly May” Barbie doll in
December 2002. The package for the doll features a photo of her
in the role and, she claims, the doll is designed to resemble
her.  She never endorsed the doll, nor gave Mattel permission to
use her name, image or likeness to promote the doll, Douglas
said in her complaint.  Douglas, now a resident of Zachary, Louisiana, asked the
court to bar Mattel’s exploitation of her persona, and for
awards of money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs  “Mattel licensed the rights to Beverly Hillbillies for this
product through all the appropriate channels,” Jules Andres, a
Mattel spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Douglas is represented by Philip J. Shaheen of Shaheen at
Law Inc. of Baton Rouge and  Charles von Simson  of  New York ’s  von
Simson & Chin .  The case is Donna Douglas v. Mattel Inc., 3:11-cv-00297-
FJP-CN, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Louisiana (Baton
Rouge).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Rosetta Settles 77 Cases Involving Pirated Software  Rosetta Stone Inc. (RST) , developer of language-learning
programs, settled 77 cases against distributors of counterfeit
software, the Arlington, Virginia-based company said in a
 statement .  Terms of the settlements weren’t disclosed. The cases
involved infringers in 73 cities and 27 states, according to
yesterday’s statement. The defendants copied, downloaded, shared
or sold versions of Rosetta Stone software without permission.  Consumers who use pirated software risk “identity theft,
malware, spyware and defective software,” Michael Wu, Rosetta
Stone’s general counsel, said in the statement.  In August, Rosetta Stone told a federal appeals court it
would appeal a lower court’s ruling that Google Inc. didn’t
infringe the language-software maker’s s trademarks by selling
them to rivals for use as search keywords.  That case is Rosetta Stone v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 1:09-00736-GBL-
TCB, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Alexandria).  Irish National Anthem’s Copyright to Expire Next Year  The  Irish national anthem ’s English lyrics will be ripe for
commercial exploitation when its copyright expires next year,
the IrishCentral.com news website  reported .  Michael Noonan, Ireland’s minister for finance, said it
doesn’t own the copyright, which will expire at the end of 2012,
70 years after the death of Peadar Kearney, author of the
English lyrics, according to IrishCentral.com  The country does hold the copyright to the  melody , composed
by Patrick Heeney in 1907, IrishCentral.com reported.  The copyright to the Irish-language version of the lyrics
has already expired, the website reported.  Too Much Bother to Register Copyrights, Indian Designers Say  Indian fashion designers say the process of registering
copyrights for their designs isn’t worth the effort, the Times
of  India   reported .  Registering a copyright -- which must be renewed every two
years -- can cost between 800 and 1,000 rupees per design ($18
and $22) and each collection consists of 185-190 different
designs, the Times of India said.  Some designers have asked the  Fashion Design Council of
India  to demand changes in copyright law to provide better
protection, according to the newspaper.  Sunil Sethi , president of the FDCI, told the Times of India
such an action by his organization would be impossible because
the group is “only a platform for designers to meet and help
them get together to act in a democratic way.”  UFC Claims Copyright on Video of Fans Brawling in the Stands  The mixed-martial arts league known as the  Ultimate
Fighting Championship  used copyright-infringement claims to
demand that a website take down a video of action outside the
ring.  The video, shot during the April 30 Toronto bout between
Jake Shields and Georges St. Pierre, shows two members of the
audience fighting in the stands.  It was  posted on the 5thround.com website , which now has a
dark screen image in place of the video. The text over the dark
screen says “this video is no longer available due to a
copyright claim by UFC.”  The league is using multiple anti-piracy firms to enforce
its copyrights. It typically charges fans $45 to watch a night
of action on pay-per-view television.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Industrial Espionage Conviction Bars New Zealand Residency  New Zealand denied a former member of the Church of
Scientology permission to settle in that country because of a
criminal industrial espionage charge related to the church, New
Zealand’s Dominion Post  reported .  Robin Scott, a 62-year-old accountant who sought to
emigrate to New Zealand, claimed  the 1984 Danish industrial
espionage case  for which he served a month in jail and was
deported from Denmark was merely a civil dispute, according to
the Herald Sun.  He was part of a scheme to remove teaching materials from a
Scientology property in Copenhagen that he planned to use to
teach a breakaway Scientology group, the newspaper reported.  After New Zealand’s immigration and Protection Tribunal
rejected their appeal, Scott and his wife left the organic farm
they established in Canterbury, New Zealand, and returned to the
U.K., according to the Dominion Post.  IP Moves  Crowell & Moring Hires Two Hatch-Waxman Patent Specialists  Crowell & Moring LLP hired two intellectual-property
specialists from New York’s  Frommer Lawrence & Haug LLP , the
Washington-based firm said in a  statement .  The new hires are James K. Stronski and Chiemi D. Suzuki.  Stronski , a litigator, has handled patent, trade secret,
trademark, copyright and unfair-competition disputes for clients
in the pharmaceutical, Internet, consumer products, high-tech
composites and semiconductor manufacturing industries. He has
litigated a number of so-called Hatch-Waxman cases related to
generic versions of patented drugs.  Stronski has an undergraduate degree from Dartmouth College
and a law degree from Fordham University and served as a
judicial clerk for U.S. District Judge Shirley W. Kram.  Suzuki  is also a litigator with experience handling Hatch-
Waxman disputes. Before she entered private practice she worked
in technology transfer at the Office of Industrial Liaison at
Mount Sinai School of Medicine. She also did research in biology
and chemical engineering.  She has an undergraduate degree in biology from Bryn Mawr
College, a master’s degree in biotechnology from  Columbia
University  and a law degree from the University of  California 
Hastings College of the Law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 