-- 
Ethiopia Plans to Start Exporting Power to Djibouti This Month

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-05-06T10:56:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/ethiopia-plans-to-start-exporting-power-to-djibouti-this-month.html
Ethiopia expects to begin exporting
electricity to  Djibouti  this month after completing a project
connecting its  power grid  to the neighboring country, an
Ethiopian Electric Power Corp. official said.  The link, completed in November, is in the final testing
and commissioning stage, Alemayehu Wubeshet, head of
transmission lines and sub-station construction at the state-
owned utility, said in an interview in Addis Ababa on May 4. The
project forms part of a program to link nine regional countries
to a single electricity grid by 2016.  “We are planning by the end of May we will send power” to
Djibouti, Alemayehu said. The line will enable Ethiopia to
supply as much as 30 megawatts of electricity, he said.  Ethiopia  plans to produce as much as 8,000 megawatts of
additional electricity, mainly from hydropower sources, over the
next five years, Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi  said on April 30.
Construction of a $4.76 billion, 5,250-megawatt project near the
Sudanese border was announced on April 2 by Meles. The Horn of
 Africa  country’s hydropower potential of 45,000 megawatts is
second only to the Democratic Republic of Congo on the
continent, according to the World Bank.  Ethiopian hydropower will generate the bulk of electricity
that will be traded among nine countries that are expected to
connect to a regional grid by 2016, said Jasper Oduor, executive
secretary of the  Eastern Africa Power Pool , or EAPP.  “The good thing is the whole area can get cheap power and
Ethiopia can get revenue,” he said in an e-mailed response to
questions on May 4. “It’s a shared benefit situation.”  Integration  The EAPP, based in  Addis Ababa , will coordinate the
development of the regional power market, including determining
how to set tariffs, overseeing integration and regulating the
market that will begin trading in 2013, Oduor said.  Ethiopia has occasional outages even after three hydropower
plants came online in the past two years.  “At this time we don’t have any power shortages,” Alemayehu
said. “It’s not a systemic or planning problem. Sometimes it’s
technical, sometime it’s damage.”  The  African Development Bank  funded the link between
Ethiopia and Djibouti and will also advance funds for a double
circuit 230-kilovolt line that will triple the transmission
capacity to eastern Ethiopia and Djibouti, according to
Alemayehu.  A connection to  Sudan  may be completed this year, said
Raihan Elahi, the  World Bank ’s senior energy specialist in
Ethiopia. The Washington-based lender provided about $45 million
for the project that began in 2007, he said in a phone interview
from the capital on May 4. There is an agreement Ethiopia has to
deliver 100 megawatts to the neighboring country and the amount
may rise to 200 megawatts, Elahi said.  “The major objective it to monetize Ethiopia’s hydropower
potential,” Elahi said. “It considers itself the water tower of
Africa and it can’t use it all by itself. It will be opening up
a new window by earning foreign exchange from hydropower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 