-- 
EU Hits China With First Anti-Subsidy Duties, Targeting Paper

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-05-06T14:57:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/eu-hits-china-with-first-anti-subsidy-duties-targeting-paper.html
The European Union imposed anti-
subsidy tariffs against  China  for the first time, targeting
imports of paper with levies as high as 12 percent in a case
that may spur more complaints about Chinese  government aid .  The EU introduced the duties for five years to counter
alleged  trade-distorting subsidies  to China’s exporters of
coated fine paper, which is used for books, brochures and
magazines. The EU also applied separate five-year levies as high
as 35.1 percent to fight below-cost -- or “dumped” -- imports
of the paper from China.  The goal is to “restore effective and fair trade
conditions on the Union market,” the 27-nation bloc said in a
decision today in Brussels. The five-year duties, which four
paper makers in  Europe  including  Sappi Ltd. (SAP)  requested, will
enter into force after being published in the EU  Official
Journal  by May 17.  The trade curbs in Europe’s 4 billion-euro ($5.8 billion)
market for coated fine paper open a new front in the EU battle
to prevent Chinese exporters from undercutting higher-cost
European manufacturers and may prompt calls by other industries
for similar measures. In recent years, European steelmakers
have alleged that China subsidizes domestic competitors and have
threatened to complain about that to the EU.  Anti-Dumping Duties  Europe imposes  anti-dumping duties  on Chinese goods ranging
from chemicals and steel pipes to bicycles and ironing boards.
China faces such EU taxes on almost 60 products, more than any
other nation.  Until today, the EU had never imposed anti-subsidy levies
against China. The U.S. decided last year to apply anti-subsidy
and anti-dumping duties to imports of Chinese paper.  “The EU has wanted to get a subsidy case against China
under its belt,” Laurent Ruessmann, a trade lawyer at Crowell &
Moring LLP in Brussels who represented EU producers in the paper
dispute, said by telephone. “This could well invite complaints
by other European industries against Chinese state support.”  China should brace for more subsidy complaints by European
manufacturers, Europe’s trade chief said in October while the EU
was investigating alleged unfair aid to Chinese paper makers.  “I expect that it will become a trend,” EU Trade
Commissioner Karel De Gucht said in an Oct. 4 interview. “What
European companies see as unfair competition has to do with
subsidization. I expect that there will be more and more
complaints.”  Coated Fine Paper  The request for European anti-dumping and anti-subsidy
duties against China came from a group that included South
Africa-based Sappi, which makes coated fine paper in EU
countries including  Germany  and the Netherlands. Germany’s
 Papierfabrik Scheufelen GmbH ,  Spain ’s Lecta SA and  Italy ’s Burgo
Group SpA were also in the alliance seeking trade measures.  Chinese makers of coated fine paper increased their
combined share of the EU market to more than 4 percent in 2009
from around 1 percent in 2006, according to the bloc, which
opened probes in February and April last year that culminated
with today’s decision.  The five-year anti-subsidy duties amount to 12 percent
against Asia Pulp & Paper Group’s Gold East Paper (Jiangsu) and
Gold Huasheng Paper (Suzhou Industrial Park) units and all other
Chinese exporters except Shangdong Chenming Paper Holdings Ltd.
and the related Shouguang Chenming Art Paper Co., which face a 4
percent levy.  The five-year anti-dumping duties are 35.1 percent against
Shangdong Chenming Paper and Shouguang Chenming Art Paper, 8
percent against the two units of Asia Pulp and Paper and 27.1
percent against all other Chinese exporters.  In November, the EU introduced provisional anti-dumping
duties as high as 39.1 percent on Chinese coated fine paper. The
two Asia Pulp and Paper units faced a preliminary anti-dumping
levy of 19.7 percent. The EU refrained from applying any
provisional anti-subsidy -- or “countervailing” -- levies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  