-- 
European Carbon Permits Fall as Slow Economy May Sap Demand

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-05-06T16:35:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/european-carbon-permits-fall-as-slow-economy-may-sap-demand.html
European Union carbon permits fell
this week, tracking losses in wider commodity markets after
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled slow
economic growth.  EU emission allowances for December fell as much as 2
percent to 16.63 euros ($24.08) a metric ton on London’s ICE
Futures Europe exchange, its lowest level since April 19. The
contract traded as high as 17.45 euros this week as power
utilities bought to hedge forward sales of electricity. It
settled today at 17.05 euros, a 0.5 percent loss since April 29.  “There were drops across all commodities, Trichet wasn’t
as hawkish as we expected on  interest rates ,” Andrew Ager, the
London head of carbon and emissions at Prudential Financial
Inc.’s Bache Commodities Ltd., said in an e-mail. “That could
be a sign the outlook for growth isn’t strong and the economy is
ticking along in a precarious state and we might see a weakening
of some sectors.”  Factories and power stations under the European Union’s
emissions trading system use the allowances to comply with
carbon-dioxide limits. Prices can track oil markets, as they
give an indication of future industrial productivity.  Crude oil tumbled below $100 a barrel in  New York  yesterday
in the biggest decline in two years on concern that economic
growth and fuel demand will drop. The benchmark oil contract
erased some of those losses today after a better-than-expected
U.S. jobs report. Some natural-gas contracts are linked to  oil
prices  and so declines can lead to a switch in fuel for power
generation. Burning gas emits about half the carbon dioxide of
coal.  The premium of EU permits for 2013 over 2012 widened this
week to 1.45 euros on May 3, its biggest gap on a closing basis
since September 2009, exchange data show.  The European Commission, regulator of the EU carbon market,
is finalizing rules this year for the third phase of the
program, which begins in 2013 and runs through 2020. “There’s a
significant disconnect between the phases. Phase three has a
greater potential price risk,” as regulators decide on the
rules, Ager said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in  London  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  