-- 
European Bid to Censure Syria Faces Opposition Citing Libya

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-06T19:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/european-bid-to-censure-syria-faces-opposition-citing-libya.html
A new European bid to stop  Syria ’s
government from attacking protesters met resistance at the
 United Nations  today from envoys concerned that intervention
might lead to the type of stalemated conflict raging in Libya.  “No one wants Syria opened up the way it happened in
Libya,”  India ’s Ambassador Hardeep Singh Puri said after the UN
 Security Council  met in closed session in  New York . “For the
moment, it would be best not to do anything.”  China , Brazil, India and Russia, which abstained from the
UN resolution authorizing attacks on Libyan security forces, are
concerned that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s bombing
campaign has exceeded its mandate to protect civilians and has
produced a bloody stalemate. China and  Russia  led opposition
last week that blocked Security Council condemnation of
President Bashar al-Assad’s regime.  British Foreign Secretary  William Hague  instructed his
government’s UN mission this week to make another attempt at
Security Council pressure on Syria’s government, and was backed
today by France and Germany, France’s Ambassador  Gerard Araud 
said. British Deputy Ambassador Philip Parham said no decision
has been made on what specific action to seek.  Syrians staged protests in several cities today in defiance
of an army crackdown in the southern region of Daraa and the
arrest of hundreds of activists in the capital, Damascus. As
many as 15 people were killed in Homs, Ammar Qurabi, head of
Syria’s National Organization for Human Rights, said by phone.  ‘It Didn’t Fly’  Russian Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin  reiterated his
government’s position that the situation in Syria isn’t a threat
to international peace and security, which is the standard for
UN Security Council intervention. “Things are getting better
there, anyway,” Churkin said.  “It didn’t fly,” Syria’s Ambassador Bashar Ja’afari said
of the European bid for UN intervention.  The U.S. and its European allies may have a better chance
at derailing Syria’s bid for a seat on the Geneva-based UN  Human
Rights Council , according to Puri and other diplomats who said
Syria won’t be able to win the 97-vote majority needed for
election in the General Assembly on May 20.  “The point that needs to be made is that you cannot keep
this score of 120 killed every Friday and be on the  Human Rights
Council ,” said Puri.  Puri said Syria might drop out of the race, turning over
its spot on the slate of Asian candidates for a council seat to
Kuwait, which is up for election next year.  Syria is still seeking the seat “up to this moment,”
Ja’afari said.  Pressure on Syria to drop out increased when the Human
Rights Council voted 26 to 9, with 7 abstentions, to adopt a
U.S.-draft resolution censuring the Assad regime for its attacks
on protesters.  Egypt’s Ambassador Maged Abdelaziz said some Arab
ambassadors are giving Ja’afari “friendly advice” to withdraw
so that the Arabs, who lost one seat on the Human Rights Council
when  Libya  was suspended in March, don’t lose another.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  