-- 
Huntsman Tells College Commencement He Served Obama Because He Was Called

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-08T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/ex-ambassador-huntsman-says-public-seeks-new-set-of-eyeballs-in-politics.html
Jon Huntsman , the former U.S.
ambassador to China who is considering a run for the Republican
presidential nomination, addressed questions about his service
to Democratic President  Barack Obama .  “Work to keep America great,” he said in a commencement
speech yesterday at the  University of South Carolina . “Serve
her, if asked. I was, by a president of a different political
party. But in the end, while we might not all be of one party,
we are all part of one nation.”  It was Huntsman’s first public speaking appearance since
his return to the U.S., after he resigned a post that he was
appointed to by Obama.  Huntsman is on a three-day visit to South Carolina, a state
that will hold one of the nation’s first 2012 primaries. He met
with the state’s Republican governor and with political
activists. The former ambassador, a Mormon, is scheduled to
visit Seacoast Church, a non-denominational congregation near
Charleston, today.  “The real test of a nation is not how well it does when
times are good, but how well it does when times are tough,”
Huntsman told the more than 1,100 graduates yesterday.  China ’s growing economic power doesn’t diminish the
potential that remains in the U.S., Huntsman said.  “Our free and open society that can respectfully embrace
debate, coupled with a free-market system that rewards risk and
innovation, is still the envy of the world,” he said. “We are
still as full of potential as ever.”  Speaks Mandarin  Huntsman, 51, who speaks Mandarin Chinese and was
previously the ambassador to  Singapore  under former President
George H.W. Bush, a Republican, is scheduled to give a
commencement address on May 21 in  New Hampshire , another early
voting state. A father of seven, Huntsman became fluent in
Mandarin during his time as a Mormon missionary in  Taiwan .  His training as an ambassador, he said, has often
discouraged frankness.  “The real secret about diplomats is that we’re trained to
say something, when there is nothing to say, and to say nothing
when there is something to say,” he said.  The former diplomat also talked about his upbringing, as he
sought to present his life story for consideration by voters.  “My initial passion in life was to be a rock-and-roll
musician,” he said. “In my teens, you wouldn’t have recognized
me. My hair was Rod Stewart shaggy.”  Tortured Activist  He reminded the graduates to cherish their freedom,
recounting a recent visit he made to the apartment of a human
rights activist in China who had been tortured.  “Sometimes we take America for granted,” he said.
“Sometimes we forget that we have freedom to pursue any
passion, while many in this world do not.”  If he does enter the race, Huntsman told reporters May 6
that he doesn’t intend to use his family’s fortune to finance a
campaign. His family runs St. Lake City-based  Huntsman Corp. (HUN) , a
global chemical company, and is one of the wealthiest in Utah.  “If we were to get in the race, no self-financing,” he
said at the South Carolina state capitol, in his first extensive
comments to reporters since he resigned. “Unless you can raise
it legitimately, you don’t win. I learned that running for
governor.”  Huntsman is the son of billionaire businessman and
philanthropist Jon Huntsman Sr. The family’s business has about
12,000 employees worldwide and had 2010 revenue of more than $9
billion, according to the company’s  website .  Gay Unions  As governor, Huntsman came under criticism from some in his
own party for supporting civil unions for gay couples and for
making  Utah  part of a regional alliance aimed at developing
goals to cut greenhouse-gas emissions.  Huntsman, who was starting his second term as Utah’s
governor when he took the ambassador’s job, said he remains
interested in public service.  “I haven’t been unemployed in a long time,” he told
reporters. “We’re looking at our future and seriously
considering our options and taking a good, serious look at
maintaining some level of activity in public service.”  Huntsman created a federal political action committee last
week. He offered no specifics on when he might enter the
Republican race, in which he would be seeking to oust from
office the man who sent him to Beijing.  No Timeline  “I wouldn’t want to suggest that there’s a timeline, other
than to say that things are moving pretty quickly and whatever
timelines one is looking at, can’t be more than a couple of
months,” he said.  Other Republicans considering possible bids include former
 Minnesota  Governor Tim Pawlenty, former Massachusetts Governor
 Mitt Romney , former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania ,
former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, former Alaska Governor
Sarah Palin, former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia ,
Governor Mitch Daniels of  Indiana  and Texas Congressman Ron Paul, who is considering a third run for the White House.  The lack of a clear Republican front-runner has encouraged
others, including Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota,
a Tea Party favorite, and real estate developer  Donald Trump  to
position themselves for potential runs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Columbia,  South Carolina , at   jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  