-- 
Ex-A.B. Watley Trader Warren Fellus Fined $3,000 in Squawk-Box Case

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-05-06T18:40:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/ex-a-b-watley-trader-warren-fellus-fined-3-000-in-squawk-box-case.html
Former A.B. Watley Group Inc. day
trader Warren Fellus was fined $3,000 and spared prison or
probation after pleading guilty to his role in a scheme to use
Merrill Lynch & Co.’s “squawk box.”  U.S. District Judge I. Leo Glasser in  Brooklyn , New York,
imposed the fine on Fellus today. Fellus testified at the trial
that led to the convictions of six defendants, prosecutors in
the office of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch said in a May 2 letter
to Glasser asking for leniency. Fellus pleaded guilty to
conspiracy to commit  securities fraud  in 2005.  “I apologize for what I’ve done,” Fellus told Glasser
before the judge imposed sentence. “I’ve tried to correct my
wrong. I am a family man and I can assure you this will never,
ever happen again.”  Fellus was one of 10 former day traders and managers from
New York-based broker-dealer A.B. Watley that the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission accused of illegally using
Merrill’s internal “squawk boxes” -- devices that broadcast
orders within a securities firm -- to trade ahead of large
institutional trades.  Robert M. Vela, an attorney for Fellus, declined to comment
after the hearing.  Form of Punishment  The judge, noting Fellus pleaded guilty six years ago,
said, “in effect, that lengthy period of time is a kind of
psychological imprisonment which I regard as a form of
punishment itself.”  Former Merrill brokers Kenneth Mahaffy Jr. and Timothy
O’Connell and four co-defendants were found guilty in April
2009. Last year, the six men lost a bid to have their
convictions thrown out after claiming prosecutors hid evidence
of their innocence.  Fellus’s “testimony was particularly valuable to the
prosecution of Mahaffy and O’Connell,” assistant U.S. attorneys
James McMahon and Jonathan E. Green said in their May 2 letter.  Keith Geller, another A.B. Watley day trader, was fined
$1,000 for his role in the scheme in February.  The case is U.S. v. Fellus, 05-426, and the main case is
U.S. v. Mahaffy, 05-cr-00613, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 