-- 
Ex-Galleon Manager Pollock Closes Hedge Fund on Capital Raising Concerns

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-05-06T07:54:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/ex-galleon-manager-pollock-closes-castlebay-hedge-fund-on-lack-of-capital.html
Justin Pollock, a former portfolio
manager at Galleon Group LLC, is returning money to investors in
the Asian hedge fund he manages at Singapore-based CastleBay
Capital Management Pte. after failing to attract enough capital.  “It was a difficult decision, but put simply the market
didn’t appreciate the business and give it the requisite
capital,” Pollock, who is currently in  New York , said late
yesterday in an e-mail reply to queries from Bloomberg News,
without providing further details. “The performance was in the
top quartile and the process was sound, but allocators seem to
prefer the perceived safety of mega-sized institutions.”  The CastleBay Asia Long/Short Equity Fund, which started
about a year ago, has about $7 million in assets, two people
familiar with the fund said, declining to be identified because
the information is private.  Firms with less than $250 million received almost 7 percent
of the $32 billion in new capital worldwide in the first quarter,
while those managing more than $5 billion attracted more than
half of the inflow, according to  Hedge Fund Research Inc . While
Asia-focused hedge funds attracted more than $3.6 billion in net
new capital in the first quarter, the industry’s total assets of
$88 billion remain 12 percent less than the peak in the second
quarter of 2008, according to the Chicago-based research firm.  Long-Short Funds  CastleBay was set up in 2008 by Julian Reis, former chief
executive officer of Tudor Investment Corp.’s unit in the city-
state, and manages fixed-income strategies, according to a
newsletter sent to clients in March. Reis wasn’t immediately
available to comment.  The CastleBay Asia Long/Short Equity Fund returned about 10
percent from April last year, when it started trading, through
December, two other people with knowledge of its performance
said. It gained less than 1 percent in the first three months of
this year, they said, declining to be identified as the
information is not public.  Funds which bet on rising and falling stocks in  Asia  rose
1.4 percent on average in the first four months of this year,
based on 15 percent of funds which have reported April returns,
according to  Eurekahedge Pte . The Asia long-short funds gained
7.9 percent 2010, according to the Singapore-based industry data
provider.  Singapore Move  CastleBay’s equity fund will target annual returns of more
than 20 percent “investing across the mature, emerging and
frontier equity markets of Asia,” Pollock said in March last
year. “The fund will adopt both fundamental and trading
strategies, with a focus on liquidity and rigorous risk
management,” he said then.  The global hedge-fund industry exceeded $2 trillion in
assets for the first time at the end of the first quarter,
marking a recovery from record investment losses and client
withdrawals during the financial crisis, according to HFR.  Pollock joined New York-based Galleon in 2003 as a trader
and became manager of the Asian long-short equity portfolio in
2005. He moved to  Singapore  in February 2008 from New York with
his wife and two children to help open Galleon’s Asian
headquarters. He was previously the head of international
trading and a principal of Wilton, Connecticut-based Pequot
Capital Management, which he joined in 1999.  Galleon funds were wound down after the firm’s co-founder
Raj Rajaratnam was arrested in October 2009 in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Rajaratnam, who has denied wrongdoing, is on trial in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  