-- 
Texas Opens Door to L.A. Suburb’s Firms Threatened With Disincorporation

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-05-06T20:53:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/texas-opens-door-to-l-a-suburb-s-firms-threatened-with-disincorporation.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  has written
to companies in an industrial suburb of  Los Angeles  threatened
with disincorporation, with the message: “If California doesn’t
want your business, Texas does.”  Perry, a Republican, sent the letter to more than 50
businesses in  Vernon , a city with a population of 96 and an
estimated 1,800 businesses that employ 55,000 people. The city,
beset by allegations of corruption, is the target of a bill that
would make it an unincorporated part of Los Angeles County.  “When citizens and employers of a state feel overburdened
and unappreciated by state leaders and policies, a common
response is to relocate,” Perry said in the letter dated May 3
and released today. “If you care about low taxes, a fair and
predictable regulatory and legal climate, high-quality
workforce, and a great quality of life,  Texas  is for you.”  Vernon, established more than 100 years ago, is one of at
least three California cities set up specifically as
manufacturing hubs. The 5-square-mile (13-square-kilometer)
community owns a power plant to supply the metal-fabrication,
food-processing, meat-packing and textile shops southeast of Los
Angeles. Vernon leaders say  disincorporation  would cause
businesses to flee.  Telephone calls and e-mails seeking comment from  Gil Duran ,
a spokesman for Governor  Jerry Brown , weren’t immediately
returned.  The letter comes seven weeks after a group of California
lawmakers traveled to Texas to study its economic strategy.
Republicans say the Golden State needs to cut taxes and reduce
regulation to battle its 12 percent unemployment rate, more than
a third higher than the national average.  ‘Enron-Style Corruption’  “I’m sure Governor Perry would love to have California
jobs relocate to Texas because recent studies have shown that
talking point to be a myth,” said John Vigna, a spokesman for
Assembly Speaker John A. Perez, referring to the Lone Star
state’s business climate. “The speaker is fighting to protect
the jobs and businesses from the Enron-style corruption in
Vernon.”  Perez, a Los Angeles Democrat, has led the fight to
dissolve Vernon. “Sixty years of corruption have eaten away at
the city’s foundation, creating a real threat to the stability
of the jobs and businesses that have located there,” he said
April 28 after the disincorporation bill passed the Assembly.  Vernon has hired an army of lobbyists and lawyers to keep
the bill from passing the Senate and being signed by Brown.  Vernon is adjacent to Bell, which gained national notoriety
last year after the Los Angeles Times reported that the city
manager there was paid almost $800,000 annually.  Robert Rizzo 
and seven others Bell officials were arrested in September and
 charged  with misappropriating $5.5 million of public funds. All
pleaded not guilty at their arraignments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  