-- 
Lexus Fights ‘House on Fire’ as BMW Steals Decade-Long U.S. Lead

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-05-06T07:21:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/lexus-fights-house-on-fire-as-bmw-steals-decade-long-u-s-luxury-lead.html
Lexus is poised to lose its lead in
the U.S. for the first time in more than a decade, with BMW and
Mercedes-Benz snaring customers just as the  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
luxury brand struggles to recover from the Japanese earthquake.  Lexus has trailed  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes for four straight months after clinging to last
year’s lead by 9,216 cars. The drop for Lexus, which makes all
but one model in  Japan , has intensified since the earthquake
disrupted supplies, temporarily reducing production by 50
percent.  BMW and Daimler are adding models in the U.S., increasing
local production and offering higher incentives than Lexus to
boost sales and hedge against overexposure to booming demand
in China. The earthquake has added to Toyota City, Japan-based
Lexus’s woes after record recalls last year tainted its image.
BMW’s U.S. deliveries through April rose to 71,417 vehicles,
leading Mercedes’ 71,388 and Lexus’s 64,932.  “The house was on fire at Lexus before the earthquake hit,”
said  Eric Noble , president of The Car Lab, an industry research
company in  California . “If the current situation wakes them up
to that, then some good may come from it.”  BMW, the world’s largest luxury-car maker, aims to grab
market share this year backed by the overhauled X3 SUV, which is
3 inches longer and 1 inch wider to appeal more to U.S. drivers.
The Munich-based company has a four-month order backlog, forcing
some customers to wait as long as half a year for the $36,750
SUV, Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said May 4.  BMW Expansion  The manufacturer moved X3 assembly to the U.S. from Austria
last year as part of a $750 million expansion of its factory in
South Carolina aimed at better capitalizing on the U.S. market.
The maker of BMW, Mini and Roll-Royce cars is considering adding
another model at the plant, which also makes the X5 and X6 SUVs.  “We are really working all out,” Reithofer said. BMW’s
U.S. factory boosted capacity by 20,000 vehicles to 260,000 to
meet the higher SUV demand.  Mercedes, the world’s second-biggest luxury-car seller, may
be best positioned to overtake  Lexus , thanks to the updated C-
Class, presented in  Detroit  in January, its best-selling model.  The company, which advertised at the Super Bowl for the
first time this year, is spending $290 million to upgrade its
factory in  Alabama , where it will start building a revamped M-
Class SUV later in 2011. Mercedes already rolled out overhauled
versions of the CLS coupe and SLK roadster this year.  Top Battle  Mercedes will likely sell 254,100 cars and SUVs in 2011,
edging out BMW’s 250,400 deliveries, for first place in the U.S.
sales race, according to forecaster IHS. Lexus is projected to
drop to third with sales of 192,900 vehicles.  “Lexus is in a sort of lull in their product cadence,”
said Bill Visnic, an analyst with  Santa Monica , California-based
auto website Edmunds.com. The $46,100 Lexus GS sedan, which
competes with the BMW 5-Series and Mercedes E-Class, “is aging
and doesn’t hold a candle to what BMW and Mercedes are doing.”  Lexus generally earns less per vehicle than BMW and
Mercedes, with the company’s cars and sport-utility vehicles
selling for an average of $42,485, according to Edmunds.com.
That compares with $48,179 on average for BMWs and $52,695 for
Mercedes-Benz, based on Edmunds data, as both brands have a
broader line of sedans with V-8 or larger engines. The average
new vehicle in the U.S. costs $27,476.  The higher average selling price give German luxury marques
more room to provide greater incentives. Mercedes currently
spends an average of $3,625 on deals such as cheap leases and
generous trade-in terms, followed closely by BMW’s $3,275, while
Lexus spent just $1,879, according to research firm Autodata
Corp, based in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey.  Losing Ground  Lexus began losing more ground last year in the U.S., the
world’s largest market for luxury cars, against German rivals as
Toyota recalled more than 10 million vehicles globally for
problems related to accelerator pedal interference, including
Lexus models. The Toyota unit, which has beaten BMW and Mercedes
in the U.S. since 2000, saw its lead over BMW last year slump 52
percent to 9,216 vehicles.  The recalls led to a “softening” in luxury buyers’ interest
in Lexus, said Alexander Edwards, president of  Strategic Vision ,
a San Diego-based consumer research company that surveys 300,000
people a year for its automotive studies.  “For people who were sitting on the fence about Lexus, we 
saw them remove the brand from the shopping list,” Edwards said.  Lexus, created by Toyota in 1989 to win over U.S. luxury
auto buyers, held test drives of its inaugural model, the LS
sedan, in Cologne,  Germany , in May 1989 to emphasize its goal of
competing directly with the European brands that dominated the
luxury segment.  U.S. Lead  The brand achieved its target in the U.S., combining cars
famed for reliability and dealers that provided a level of
service customers were unaccustomed to. In 2000, 11 years after
its creation, Lexus surpassed its German rivals to become the
top-selling U.S. luxury marque, a position it held until the end
of last year.  The U.S. market is particularly important for Lexus because
the brand has struggled to catch on elsewhere. The carmaker’s
market share in  Europe  thus far in 2011 is 0.2 percent. In
China, Lexus sold just 49,000 cars last year, trailing market
leader Audi’s sales of 236,000 vehicles.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi,
Mercedes and BMW all delivered more than 1 million cars last
year globally. Lexus sold 410,000.  Lexus isn’t sitting still. The company aims to boost its
appeal with designs that are “more passionate,”  Mark Templin ,
the brand’s U.S. chief, said April 18 in  New York .  Loyal Drivers  Working in Lexus’s favor is a loyal following of drivers
won over by the company’s customer service, the first to include
amenities such as cappuccino machines in dealer showrooms,
complimentary loaner cars, home visits by salesmen, and airport
shuttles for busy executives dropping off cars for service.  “There are going to be customers who will wait for Lexus
models to become available,” said Jim Hall, principal of 2953
Analytics, a consulting firm in Birmingham,  Michigan . Whether
Lexus can then win back wayward drivers “depends on how well
BMW and Mercedes take care of them. They’re going to have to
work for it. 2012 is probably going to be a dogfight.”  Mercedes and BMW are aiming to keep the customers they
gain. The two are improving their Manhattan showrooms, with
Mercedes opening a new dealership this month on 11th Avenue with
soaring ceilings and changing light colors. Three blocks away,
on 57th Street, BMW is spending money at its dealership to free
up floor space and renovate the facade.  Audi Surge  Closing on all three leaders is Audi, which will add
further pressure on Lexus’s GS when the new A6 sedan goes on
sale this summer. The VW unit, already the leader in Europe and
 China , is counting on further U.S. growth to help achieve a goal
of leapfrogging BMW and Mercedes-Benz to become the world’s top
premium seller by 2015.  Audi projects double-digit growth in U.S. deliveries in
2011 after selling more than 100,000 cars and SUVs last year for
the first time. In addition to the A6, Audi will start selling
the A7 coupe and the TT RS sports-car in the U.S. this year.  “The most interesting change hasn’t been with those three,
but with Audi,” Edwards with Strategic Vision said. “Audi has
seen very strong movement forward, capturing some aspirational
interest among Gen-Y buyers, the younger consumer group that
everyone wants to attract.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Kae Inoue in Tokyo at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  