-- 
Ecclestone Says News Corp. Not Only Group That Wants F-1

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-05-06T16:56:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/f-1-s-ecclestone-says-news-corp-not-only-group-that-wants-to-buy-sport.html
Formula One chief executive officer
 Bernie Ecclestone  said other groups have made approaches about
buying the series apart from prospective bidders  News Corp. (NWSA)  and
the Agnelli family’s  Exor SpA. (EXO)   “There’s been other interest for quite some time,”
Ecclestone said in a telephone interview, without providing
details.  Ecclestone, 80, said he’d discussed the approach that News
Corp. and Exor announced May 3 with Formula One owner CVC
Capital Partners Ltd., although not with News Corp. CEO  Rupert Murdoch . Ecclestone said CVC doesn’t want to sell unless there
is a “bloody enormous” offer.  “I suppose the next stage is that they come back with an
offer,” Ecclestone said, referring to News Corp and Exor.  He confirmed series ruling body, Federation Internationale
de l’Automobile, has the right to veto a buyout. “I don’t but I
could just walk out,” Ecclestone said.  If Ecclestone quit, it would “undermine” the series,
according to Mark Jenkins, a professor of business strategy at
the U.K.’s Cranfield University who has written a book about
Formula One. Ecclestone has overseen the commercial arm of the
sport since the 1980s.  “He has a very unique understanding of how this business
works and the myriad of relationships and alliances that have
been built up over the years,” Jenkins.  Ecclestone doesn’t hold a stake in the business, although
his former wife and two daughters have a stake of less than 10
percent, he said in February.  The Paris-based FIA ceded the commercial rights to Formula
One’s previous owners for a century in 2001. Its right of veto
on buyouts has become known as the “Don King” clause as a joke
because the sport wouldn’t want the boxing promoter running the
business, former FIA president Max Mosley said.  The clause is “about having a suitable, proper person,”
Mosley said in an interview. “From a personal point of view, I
don’t think they’d be the right person,” Mosley said, referring
to News Corp.  “There has been clear illegality” at News Corp.’s U.K.
tabloid News of the World, Mosley said, citing phone hacking by
reporters. In a separate privacy case, Mosley won a record
60,000-pound ($98,400) award in 2008 against the News of the
World over a story that said he participated in a Nazi-themed
sex party.  Actress  Sienna Miller  is among 20 celebrities and
politicians suing News Corp. over the hacking scandal. The
company apologized and offered to settle some of the cases last
month after two journalists linked to the paper were arrested.  Alice Macandrew, a News Corp. spokeswoman, declined to
comment on Ecclestone and Mosley’s comments.  Earlier today, team owner Frank Williams said News Corp and
Exor would also need to win over teams as well as the FIA. The
existing commercial deal between the teams and CVC expires after
the 2012 season.  “It would be an Olympic-sized negotiation” if the bid
goes ahead, Williams said in an interview in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  