-- 
London Bombing Inquest Findings May Suggest Emergency Service, MI5 Changes

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-05-06T12:44:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/faster-rescue-wouldn-t-have-saved-london-s-7-7-bomb-victims-coroner-says.html
Quicker rescue by emergency services
wouldn’t have saved the 52 victims of the July 7, 2005, suicide
attacks in  London , a coroner said.  Justice Heather Hallett formally ruled that the victims
were “unlawfully killed,” ending an inquest that began in
October. While she didn’t conclude that failures by emergency-
service and security personnel led to any of the deaths, she
made nine recommended changes for such agencies to consider.  “I am satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that
each one of them would have died whatever time the emergency
services had reached and rescued them,” Hallett said.  Three  suicide bombers  set off explosions on underground
trains in central London during the morning rush hour of July 7,
2005. An hour after the first explosions, a fourth bomber set
off a device on a bus. The attack was carried out by four
British-born Muslims of Pakistani origin led by 30-year-old
Mohammed Siddique Khan.  Hallett’s recommendations include a request that MI5, the
U.K.’s domestic security agency, review its procedures for
showing photos of suspects to detainees. During the inquest MI5
was criticized for using poorly reproduced images. She also said
there should be more cooperative training among  emergency
services  on dealing with major incidents and that first-aid
equipment should be kept on underground trains.  ‘Serious Faults’  Adam Chapman, a lawyer representing the families of seven
victims, said he agreed with the coroner’s conclusion that
failures by the emergency services didn’t lead to deaths.  “There were serious faults on the day. In particular, the
London ambulance service was completely overwhelmed,” he said,
yet “by luck rather than judgment” that didn’t lead to deaths
because one of the blasts took place next to the headquarters of
the  British Medical Association  and another near a hospital, so
doctors were on hand to treat the injured.  A coroner’s inquest can only come to a limited number of
verdicts: death by accident, suicide, unlawful killing, lawful
killing, industrial disease or an “open verdict” if there
isn’t enough evidence for the others. A coroner is also entitled
to write a report suggesting steps to avoid deaths in future.  The bombings were the deadliest attack on the U.K. since
World War II and  Europe ’s first suicide attack. In total 56
people were killed, including the bombers. Seven died on a tube
train at Aldgate station in East London, 26 died on a train in
the tunnel between King’s Cross and Russell Square. Six died on
a train at Edgware Road station and 13 died on a bus on
Tavistock Square, near Russell Square.  Cameron  “The government supported and cooperated with the inquest
throughout and will carefully consider the coroner’s
recommendations,” Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokeswoman
Vickie Sheriff told reporters in London today. “We are always
looking to learn lessons and to improve the response to the
terrorist threat we face.”  Home Secretary Theresa May said she hoped the conclusion of
the inquest would bring comfort to survivors and victims’
families.  “I am pleased that the coroner has made clear there is
simply no evidence that the Security Service knew of, and
therefore failed to prevent, the bombings on 7/7,” she said in
an e-mailed statement.  Hallett, who has been hearing the inquest without a jury as
is normal in the U.K., has been considering her verdict since
she stopped taking evidence March 13. Hallett took testimony
from 309 witnesses over 75 days of hearings spread over five-
and-a-half months, according to the  website  for the inquest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in Londont .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  