-- 
FCC First-Quarter Profit Rises, Boosted by Foreign Markets

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-05-06T09:42:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/fcc-first-quarter-profit-rises-boosted-by-foreign-markets-1-.html
Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas
SA (FCC) , a Spanish construction and engineering company, reported
higher first-quarter net income as gains in foreign sales and
higher profit from environmental services offset a decline in
construction and cement activities.  Profit rose 9.8 percent from a year ago to 40.5 million
euros ($59 million), the Madrid-based company said today in a
statement. That compares with the mean 41.6 million-euro
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of six analysts.  First-quarter sales dropped 4.9 percent to 2.46 billion
euros as construction and cement activities in  Spain  slumped 25
percent and 5.7 percent, respectively. Sales from foreign
markets climbed 8.5 percent and earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization from the environmental services
unit climbed 11.5 percent, FCC said.  “Today’s results reflect the good pace of the group’s
internationalization process,” Chief Financial Officer Victor Pastor said today on a conference call. “Regarding revenue, all
of the group’s activities had a positive evolution in their
international markets, both the utilities and the infrastructure
areas.”  International sales accounted for 46 percent of total
revenue, up from 40 percent a year ago. Full-year sales will be
higher than a year ago, Pastor said.  Asset Sales  FCC, as the company is known, is also considering the sale
of some assets from its Versia and cement business units this
year, the executive said. Versia provides urban services
including handling and logistic activities.  The company is trying to attract new investors to further
develop its Globalvia infrastructure unit, Pastor said, adding
the unit isn’t up for sale.  FCC’s earnings “show that part of the negative context has
been overcome after eight quarters of steep declines,” Marta Olba, an analyst at Banesto Bolsa in  Madrid , wrote in a report
today.  The shares climbed as much as 2.3 percent and traded at
22.86 euros, up 1.4 percent, at 11:17 a.m. in Madrid, snapping
three days of losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  