-- 
Fed Still ‘Considerable Way’ From U.S. Economic Goals, Bank’s Dudley Says

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-05-06T16:12:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/fed-still-considerable-way-from-u-s-economic-goals-bank-s-dudley-says.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said the U.S. recovery is still
falling short of the central bank’s goals even while today’s
jobs report shows “further improvement” in the labor market.  “Economic conditions have improved in the past year,”
Dudley said today in New York. “Yet the recovery remains
moderate and we still have a considerable way to go to meet the
Fed’s dual mandate of full employment and price stability.”  The jobless rate rose to 9 percent in April, the first
increase since November, even as the economy added a more-than-
forecast 244,000 jobs, the Labor Department said today in
 Washington . The  Federal Open Market Committee  last week pledged
to spur the recovery by finishing its $600 billion bond-purchase
program in June and keeping  interest rates  low for an “extended
period.”  While the economy’s expansion in the first quarter was
“somewhat softer than anticipated,” the slowdown will
“probably prove temporary” because manufacturing data and
financial markets are improving, Dudley said during a press
conference. Fiscal stimulus and demand for U.S. exports are also
helping boost growth, he said.  Economic growth slowed to a 1.8 percent annual rate in the
first quarter after expanding at a 3.1 percent pace in the last
three months of 2010, according to Commerce Department figures.  ‘Broadening Strength’  “The labor market has shown further improvement, as
demonstrated by today’s employment report,” Dudley said, citing
“particularly encouraging” growth in manufacturing jobs over
the past year and “recent broadening strength in services
employment.”  “While the exact pace of a jobs market recovery is always
hard to predict, we were expecting the rate of job growth to
pick up over the first half, and I am hopeful that job growth
will continue to strengthen in the coming months,” he said.  Risks to growth include high commodity costs, a “renewed
decline” in  home prices  and government-spending cuts, Dudley
said.  Dudley reiterated in response to questions from reporters
that he expects the impact of rising commodity prices on
inflation to be “transitory,” and that inflation expectations
are well anchored.  “We’re going to monitor that because if they were going to
become unmoored, that would run a much greater risk in terms of
inflation,” he said.  Dudley also said he expects growth in employers’ payrolls
to “continue to pick up.” He declined to quantify his
forecast.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries rose after the jobs report to
3.18 percent at 12:08 p.m. in New York from 3.15 percent
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  