-- 
Fed’s Bullard Says FOMC May Go ‘On Hold’ as Recovery Unfolds

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-05-06T15:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/fed-s-bullard-says-fomc-may-go-on-hold-as-recovery-unfolds.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the  Federal Open Market Committee 
may put policy on “hold,” leaving record monetary stimulus in
place to ensure the economic recovery is gaining ground.  “Past behavior of the FOMC indicates that the Committee
sometimes puts policy on hold,” Bullard said today according to
prepared materials for a speech in Little Rock,  Arkansas . “This
gives the committee more time to assess economic conditions.”  “Hold” would mean that the Fed’s target interest rate
remains near zero, the central bank continues to pledge to keep
rates low for an “extended period,” and the Fed would maintain
the size of its balance sheet at record levels, Bullard said,
without saying whether or not this was his preference.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the FOMC are developing
their plans for policy after they finish their program announced
in November to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June in a
second round of so-called quantitative easing. That is aimed at
combating too-low inflation and lowering an  unemployment rate 
stuck at 8.8 percent or higher since April 2009.  Oil prices  are unlikely to derail the recovery, Bullard
said. “Increases in oil prices like the ones we have recently
experienced have occurred many times in the past without seeming
to have much effect on the economy,” he said at Arkansas Day
with the Bank Commissioner, an event sponsored by the state’s
banking regulator.  ‘Extreme Ones’  “It is only the really extreme ones that are reliably
related to U.S. recessions,” Bullard said of oil price shocks,
“This gives me some confidence that the U.S. can weather the
current price shock without a significant slowdown.”  The Labor Department reported today that American employers
added 244,000 jobs in April, after adding 221,000 in March and
235,000 in February. The jobless rate climbed to 9 percent, the
first increase since November.  Bullard noted that inflation expectations have increased in
recent months. The level of inflation expected by investors, as
measured by the spread between inflation-protected securities
and nominal bonds over the next 5 years has risen to 2.3 percent
from 1.7 percent at the start of the year and 1.1 percent in
August of 2010.  “To the extent expected inflation continues to rise,
financial conditions continue to ease,” Bullard said.  To help ensure the Fed’s credibility, Bullard repeated his
call for the central bank to adopt an inflation target.  Inflation Targeting  “Inflation targeting is another way to force more
accountability to the central bank and anchor longer-term
inflation expectations,” he said. Such a target would “make
the central bank say what it intends to do, and hold the central
bank accountable for achieving the goal,” he said.  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, and
Bullard, 50, does not vote this year. He joined the St. Louis
Fed’s research department in 1990 and became president of the
bank in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Little Rock , Arkansas at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  