-- 
Gamblers Fixing Soccer Matches to Be Discussed by FIFA, Interpol Next Week

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-06T17:39:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/fifa-interpol-to-meet-next-week-to-discuss-soccer-match-fixing-gambling.html
Soccer’s governing body and Interpol
will meet next week to discuss illegal betting and match-fixing
in reaction to several cases in Europe and  Asia .  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  and the international police
agency’s secretary general, Ronald Noble, will discuss their
“joint work in the fight against irregular and illegal betting
as well as match-fixing” on May 9, the sports group said in an
e-mailed statement. They’ll then meet with the press.  The session will come days after sport’s top court said
UEFA, European soccer’s ruling body, was right to suspend a
Debrecen goalkeeper for not reporting he’d been approached by a
“criminal gang” trying to fix a Champions League match. FIFA
is investigating six match officials who oversaw two
international matches that had questionable goal scoring.  Michel Platini , who heads European soccer’s governing body,
UEFA, has described match-fixing as the “biggest threat to the
game.”  “We actively monitor thousands of first and second
division games throughout  Europe  as well those played in our own
competitions for unusual betting patterns and pass that
information on to the relevant national associations,” Rob Faulkner, head of communications at UEFA.  Yesterday, the Court of Arbitration for Sport ruled that
UEFA was correct in banning Debrecen’s Vukasin Poleksic, who
also plays for the Montenegro national team, was banned from all
soccer-related activities until June 30, 2012. He was allegedly
contacted by match-fixers before his Hungarian team’s 4-3 home
loss to Italy’s Fiorentina in October 2009. Norbert Meszaros,
another Debrecen player, had his suspension, due to last until
Dec. 31, overturned by the Court of Arbitration for Sport.  German Trial  Some of the investigations into the case were carried out
by police in Bochum,  Germany . A court there is currently hearing
a trial against six men accused of being part of a betting ring
that manipulated 48 games across Europe.  The betting ring influenced the results of games between
August 2008 and November 2009 in Germany, Switzerland, Austria,
Belgium, Liechtenstein, Denmark,  Canada  and some south-eastern
European countries.  The matches included a World Cup qualification game between
Liechtenstein and Finland and Debrecen’s game against
Fiorentina. The ring made a profit of 3.5 million euros ($5
million) while betting 32 million euros with a single account at
British bookmaker Samvo Ltd., German prosecutors said. The
defendants placed bets in eastern Asia while they also using
European betting companies.  FIFA has separately opened an investigation into six match
officials that oversaw  Bulgaria ’s 2-1 win over Estonia and a 2-2
tie between Bolivia and Latvia in February. The matches were
played on the same day in a Turkish statium, with all the goals
coming from penalties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 