-- 
Florida Legislative Session Set to End Without Immigration Law

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-05-06T22:34:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/florida-legislative-session-set-to-end-without-immigration-law.html
Florida ’s Legislature may close its
2011 session today without passing an immigration-law overhaul
after Senate and House lawmakers couldn’t agree on whether
businesses should use a federal database to check employees’
status.  Under a Senate  bill  passed May 4, state employment centers
would have been required to use the  web-based system , known as
E-Verify, to check applicants’ immigration status before sending
them to employers. The House  bill , approved March 8, would have
required all private employers to use the database to screen
applicants.  E-Verify “requires employers to spend an awful lot of
money at the very same they’re trying to train folks to come to
work for them,”  J.D. Alexander , a Senate Republican, argued on
May 3.  The Senate bill would have directed correctional
facilities’ staff to “make a reasonable effort” to determine
the legality of people who had been arrested. Officers would
have had to turn illegal immigrants over to federal authorities.  A separate House bill authorizing state or local police to
check the immigration status of people under investigation
didn’t emerge from committee debate.  An  Arizona  law passed last year requires police to
determine the immigration status of people stopped for
questioning. A lower court’s ruling to block the central
provisions of the law was upheld by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 San Francisco  on April 11.  Utah Republican Governor Gary Herbert signed a bill similar
to Arizona’s in  March . Georgia’s Legislature passed an
immigration overhaul April 14, which Republican Governor Nathan Deal has indicated he will sign.  Florida’s first-term Republican Governor  Rick Scott 
campaigned on strengthening the state’s immigration laws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 