-- 
Forests May Spur Financial Rewards, Curb Climate Change, UN Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-05-06T15:32:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/forests-may-spur-financial-rewards-curb-climate-change-un-says.html
The world’s forests may spur financial
rewards and risk management opportunities as a way to curb
climate change, according to the  United Nations .  Tropical forests are disappearing at a rate of about 13
million hectares (32 million acres) each year, or an area the
size of  Greece , which is equivalent to the release of six
billion metric tons of carbon dioxide into the air, according to
a UN Environment Program report published today. That’s about
3.6 times the emissions of power stations and factories under
the European Union cap-and-trade program last year.  Financing tree projects that create carbon credits can be
profitable, reduce risk portfolio diversification, and cheapen
compliance costs for emitters, the UNEP said in the report
entitled “Reddy Set Grow,” in a reference to Reducing
Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation, or REDD. The
document outlines the role of banks, insurers and investors in
forestry carbon markets. Trees absorb carbon dioxide for growth
and release it when they rot or burn.  BNP Paribas SA and Wildlife Works Carbon LLC said Sept. 21
they  plan to develop  credits from REDD projects in Africa. BNP
Paribas committed as much as $50 million of finance for such
activities.  ‘Almost Infinite Value’  “The asset that REDD seeks to monetize, no one questions
that value,” Christian Del Valle, director of environmental
markets and forestry at Paris-based BNP Paribas, said today at a
meeting in  London . “You have an asset that has an almost
infinite value, but the price doesn’t reflect that,” he said.
The projects appear like a “very undervalued asset, like a
distressed asset.”  South Africa ’s  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)   received  on Feb. 8
credits for its initial funding of Wildlife Works’ Kasigau
Corridor project in Kenya, which protects 500,000 acres of
forest over a migration route in the Tsavo National Parks. Those
credits were the first of their kind.  Credits from planting trees account for only 1 percent of
the UN’s Clean Development Mechanism, a program that accredits
emissions cutting projects with tradable certificates for use by
companies and nations to comply with limits. That compares to
forestry projects making up as much as 24 percent of voluntary
markets, according to the report.  $37 Million  Most of the world’s forests are in developing nations. The
forest-related carbon market was worth $37 million in 2008, or
0.03 percent of total emission markets, data in the report show.  The risks of these kinds of investments is “almost like
emerging markets squared,” Abyd Karmali, managing director and
global head of carbon markets at Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
said at the meeting. They can be managed through structured
products, he said.  Companies that choose to offset emissions rather than being
forced to under climate laws can use credits from the so-called
voluntary market. Quality standards can be attached to the
credits to assure they are credible.  The use of forests as a tool for an international agreement
to fight  climate change  has been mulled for two decades. Credits
linked to deforestation, rather than tree planting, were
excluded from the 1997 Kyoto Protocol as a way for countries to
meet climate targets. They aren’t covered in  Europe ’s program.  International talks held last year in Cancun,  Mexico ,
considered ways of creating carbon forestry credits, which may
be part of a new climate treaty. About 200 nations will meet in
Durban, South Africa, in December to carve out a role for
forests as a means of emissions reduction.  Brazil ,  Indonesia ,  Nigeria  and the Democratic Republic of
Congo may be the top producers of REDD credits, according to
analysis from  Barclays Capital .  The EU’s emissions trading system, the world’s largest,
caps about 12,000 factories and power stations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  