-- 
One Year After Flash Crash Regulators Vexed by Fragmentation

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-05-06T04:40:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/fragmentation-that-fed-may-6-plunge-is-focus-of-regulators-one-year-later.html
One year ago, regulators were unable
to arrest a market collapse that erased $862 billion from stock
values in less than 20 minutes. Yesterday, they agreed that
their work to prevent a recurrence has yet to be completed.  Exchanges established circuit breakers to curb price swings
across about 50 equity venues, adopted uniform rules on when to
cancel transactions and eliminated quotes that let companies
such as  Accenture Plc (ACN)  fall as low as a penny from about $41 on
May 6, 2010. David Shillman, associate director of the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s division of trading and
markets, said yesterday that while the initiatives have worked
so far, more needs to be done.  “It’s an ongoing task by the commission to make sure the
regulatory structure keeps up with markets,” Shillman said at a
 Georgetown University   conference  in  Washington . “We need to
coordinate with the futures market. We don’t want a world where
single-stock circuit breakers are going off at lower thresholds
yet the index continues to trade.”  Twelve months after a mutual fund’s hedging strategy set
off a chain reaction that sent the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
to its biggest slide since 1987, the SEC has acted to solve
issues created by market fragmentation on equity exchanges. That
the selloff originated on a futures venue run by  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
in Chicago, overseen by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, shows why even more coordination may be one of the
SEC’s biggest challenges.  10 Minutes  Almost 1.3 billion shares traded on U.S. markets in a 10-
minute span starting at 2:40 p.m. New York time on May 6, 2010,
six times the average, sending prices lower from New York to  New
Jersey  and Chicago. The Dow Jones Industrial Average slumped
almost 1,000 points intraday before paring losses.  While automated trading was blamed for feeding the rout,
regulators have little choice but to rely on computers to
prevent another one, said Frank Hatheway, chief economist and
senior vice president at  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  in New York.  Before electronic trading, “when there was a problem, the
system would kick off and trading would be handled by a human,”
Hatheway said. “Now we’re putting systems in place to do what
people used to do in terms of handling the unexpected. There’s
no other option.”  Multiplying Markets  More than 19.3 billion shares changed hands in U.S. markets
on May 6, compared with the daily average of 7.57 billion since
then. While  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s three venues including the New York
Stock Exchange give it the most business, electronic markets
that didn’t exist before the mid-2000s, such as  Bats Global
Markets  in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , and  Jersey City , New Jersey-
based Direct Edge Holdings LLC, handle about 20 percent.  A study by the SEC and CFTC on Oct. 1 concluded that an
automated sale of stock index futures without regard to price
and computer-driven trading strategies helped trigger the crash,
turning an orderly selloff into a plunge as buy orders vanished.
Disparate rules across exchanges and delays in the dissemination
of trading data, especially for stocks listed on the New York
Stock Exchange, sowed confusion, regulators said.  The crash highlighted the loss of dominance for the 219-
year-old New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Stock Market,
founded in 1971. Volume in securities they list has dropped from
as much as 80 percent in the last decade to less than 30 percent
now. Orders are dispersed to as many as 50 competing venues,
almost all of them operated by computers that match orders
electronically. Twenty years ago, fewer than 10 exchanges
competed for equity trades.  Circuit Breakers  The exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, which oversees more than 4,500 brokers, worked with
the SEC to introduce circuit breakers that halt trading in
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and  Russell 1000 Index (RIY)  stocks along
with more than 300 exchange-traded funds when prices rise or
fall 10 percent in five minutes. The markets last month proposed
moving to a so-called limit-up/limit-down mechanism that
prevents trades outside a moving price band.  “Exchanges and regulators have done a lot over the last
year. Stocks can’t move as far out of whack as they could
before,” said James Angel, professor at Georgetown University in
Washington, “Murphy’s law hasn’t been repealed. Anything that
can go wrong will go wrong. We need safeguards for when the next
event occurs.”  Randy Snook, New York-based executive vice president at the
 Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association  in
Washington, said the circuit breakers and plans to move to a
limit-up/limit-down system are an “important, necessary step to
ensure we don’t have, on a stock-by-stock basis, extremes in
volatility.” Consistency across exchanges and trading platforms
are key to damping price anomalies, he said.  More Choices  Competition among exchanges and alternative venues has
reduced costs for investors and benefited professional traders
by giving them more choices on where and how to do business,
said Sang Lee, managing partner at Boston-based Aite Group LLC.  “Each venue, broker, high-frequency trader, market maker
and asset manager reacted in a way that was totally rational for
them,” Lee said. “Collectively it was a complete disaster,
because there was no coordination across market participants.”  While firms will always respond according to their own
mandates, “you need a certain level of minimal harmonization
for how you’ll react as an industry,” he said. “If stocks go
down in value by 90 percent, something has gone wrong.”  Blame for May 6 initially settled on a program for slowing
trading on the NYSE known as  liquidity replenishment points ,
which convert electronic trading in a stock into an auction
overseen by a specialist.  Depleting Orders  The safeguards don’t extend to trading by other venues,
which continued to execute buy and sell requests at whatever
prices were available after depleting their existing orders.
Many of those traded against stub quotes, or placeholder buy and
sell requests at prices as low as a penny used by market makers
to meet obligations to provide bids and offers.  Regulators found that the Big Board’s trading curbs didn’t
cause orders to flow to other markets or high-frequency traders
to shut down. The triggering of about 100,000 LRPs at the height
of the rout, most for no more than a few seconds, along with
data delays fueled confusion among automated trading firms and
brokers, the SEC-CFTC report said.  Inconsistent policies for pausing trading across venues
“were a problem but no one confronted it,” said Matthew Andresen, former co-chief executive officer of Chicago-based
Citadel LLC’s market-making business. “They can be fixed.
Compared to the 1987 crash, which lasted a day and a half, this
took 18 minutes.”  Electronic Pioneer  Andresen, who ran the Island ECN that helped pioneer
electronic equity trading, said “mini flash crashes” have
happened every day over for two decades as stocks trading at the
wrong price had to be canceled or adjusted. More people are
paying attention to them now after the events of May 6, he said.  “When they affect everyone it’s a problem, but asking
competitors to homogenize rules with each other is impossible,”
said Andresen, who’s now co-chief executive officer at Headlands
Technologies Inc., a quantitative trading firm in  Chicago  and
 San Francisco . “You need government to mandate it.
Unfortunately it took a calamity to get that addressed.”  Trading curbs on individual stocks and ETFs should be
coordinated with related stock index futures, Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat and chairman of the Senate’s
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, said last month.  Dow Declines  The SEC and CFTC plan to revamp the market-wide circuit
breakers introduced after the 1987 stock crash that halt all
trading across securities and futures markets when the Dow drops
10 percent before 2:30 p.m. The agencies are considering whether
to use another index instead of the average, decrease the price-
decline thresholds that trigger the curbs, and cut the length of
the halt.  “When we pick a number for the market-wide circuit breaker,
there’s keen interest in making sure it works well with whatever
number is picked for limit-up/limit-down,” Shillman said about
the trigger thresholds. The SEC hopes to implement constraints
for individual securities by the end of the year, he said.  The Dow fell as much as 9.2 percent on May 6, its biggest
tumble since the crash of 1987, before closing down 3.2 percent.
Share prices for companies such as Accenture and Exelon Corp.
fell to pennies before rebounding minutes later.  Stock exchanges agreed to cancel trades on May 6 that were
60 percent or more away from their price at 2:40 p.m., when the
selloff intensified. Transactions in 326 securities, 70 percent
of which were ETFs, were broken that day, regulators said last
year. About 20,800 separate trades were voided, including many
when orders hit stub quotes.  Best Bid/Offer  Exchanges, Finra and the SEC banned stub quotes starting in
December, requiring market makers to supply orders within 8
percent of the national best bid or offer. The goal was to
provide protection against a surge of orders that might
otherwise overwhelm markets, according to Schapiro.  Uniform rules for trades deemed  “clearly erroneous”  were
also written to give investors more certainty about when and at
what levels executions would be voided. Knowing when
transactions will be canceled allows traders to avoid losses or
rule infractions such as holding improper short positions when
stock purchases are canceled while the subsequent sale of the
shares at a higher price is left standing.  “Regulators often get a bum rap,” Andresen said. “They
presided over the modernization of markets over the last 15
years, starting when spreads were artificially wide because
prices didn’t have to be honored. They moved in fits and starts,
but in a fairly methodical way to get us to a place where we
have the most efficient, liquid market in the world,” he said.
Failing to coordinate rules “was a colossal oversight, yes, but
a more sober and complete analysis shows many successes mixed
into that history.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 