-- 
Gabonese Opposition Leader Loses Immunity Amid Treason Charge

-- B y   A n t o i n e   L a w s o n
-- 
2011-05-06T08:29:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/gabonese-opposition-leader-loses-immunity-amid-treason-charge.html
Gabon’s main opposition leader, Andre Mba Obame, was stripped of parliamentary immunity from
prosecution on treason charges for declaring himself president
of the West African country.  Lawmakers voted 79 in favour of lifting the privilege,
while three opposed the motion and three more abstained,
according to a report by the National Assembly read on state
television yesterday in Libreville, the capital. An order was
issued by the authorities for Obame’s immediate arrest, it said.  Obame, a former interior minister who came third in Gabon’s
presidential election in August 2009, on Jan. 25 swore himself
in as president in a live broadcast on TV+, a Libreville-based
broadcaster, and named a 19-member Cabinet. A day later, he
sought refuge in the United Nation’s Development Programme’s
offices in Libreville. He left the UN premises a month later,
 Agence France-Presse  reported on Feb. 27.  Gabon’s Constitutional Court in October 2009 declared Ali Bongo Ondimba the winner of an Aug. 30 vote after dismissing
opposition party challenges to the results. Pierre Mamboundou,
leader of the Union of Gabonese People, garnered 25.64 percent
of the ballots cast and Obame got 25.33 percent, the court said.
Bongo, the son of Omar Bongo Ondimba, who ruled the country for
41 years before his death in June 2009, obtained 41.79 percent
and was sworn in as president on Oct. 16, 2009.  Gabon, with a population of 1.5 million people, is sub-
Saharan  Africa ’s fifth-biggest oil producer and the world’s
fourth-largest producer of manganese, which is used to
strengthen steel, according to the website of the  U.S.
Geological Survey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Antoine Lawson in Libreville via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 