-- 
General Dynamics Needs Deal to Combat Worst Earnings in 20 Years: Real M&A

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h ,   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-05-06T15:10:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/general-dynamics-needs-deal-to-combat-worst-earnings-in-20-years-real-m-a.html
General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , which posted
the smallest sales increase since 1995 last year, may now need
acquisitions more than ever as it faces the weakest stretch of
profit growth in two decades.  The maker of Gulfstream jets and Abrams battle tanks hasn’t
done a billion-dollar deal for a publicly traded company in five
years, and is “looking at opportunities” to buy businesses
after revenue rose less than 2 percent in 2010, Chief Executive
Officer Jay Johnson said last week. Buying flight-simulator
maker  CAE Inc. (CAE)  may boost growth, according to Fifth Third Asset
Management, which sold General Dynamics on concern earnings will
slump. Shareholder Fiduciary Trust Co. said General Dynamics
should buy a company outside defense and aerospace or split up.  A deal may help 64-year-old Johnson recoup some of the
money investors lost on General Dynamics in the past year, even
as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 15 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Without a transaction, analysts
project annual profits at General Dynamics will grow less than
10 percent for three years, the slowest rate since at least
1991, as the U.S. government cuts defense spending.  “We don’t see a lot of positive catalysts right now,”
said Michael Mullaney, who helps oversee $9.5 billion at
Fiduciary Trust in  Boston , which owns shares of General
Dynamics. An acquisition “could be a shot in the arm as far as
earnings. They should focus on industrial names because that’s
what they are good at,” he said.  ‘Rest Assured’  Rob Doolittle, a spokesman for  Falls Church , Virginia-based
General Dynamics, said the company doesn’t comment on rumors or
speculation about mergers and acquisitions.  “Rest assured, we’re looking at opportunities in the
defense space as well as in aerospace,” Johnson said on a
conference call on April 27 after the company’s first-quarter
earnings announcement. General Dynamics reported a 3.5 percent
increase in net income as sales rose less than 1 percent.  The 1.7 percent drop in General Dynamics’s shares in the
past year trimmed its market value to $27.4 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  S&P 500  has gained 15 percent
over the same period, while defense and aerospace stocks in the
benchmark index for American common equity climbed an average of
9.9 percent, the data show.  Today, General Dynamics rose 0.9 percent to $74.35 as of
11:07 a.m. in New York.  Since Johnson, a retired admiral and former U.S. Chief of
Naval Operations who flew combat operations in  Vietnam , became
CEO of General Dynamics in July 2009, the company has returned
39 percent to shareholders. Rival defense and aerospace
companies have delivered a 62 percent gain including dividends
to their owners, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Battle Tanks  Revenue at General Dynamics rose 1.5 percent last year, the
smallest increase since a 0.3 percent gain in 1995. Sales
declined at its combat systems unit, which sells battle tanks
and rockets, the data show.  General Dynamics was dealt a setback in January after U.S.
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  proposed to cancel its
Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle it was building for the Marine
Corps. With the government under pressure to cut spending and
reduce the military’s presence in Iraq and  Afghanistan , Johnson
has said the Gulfstream unit will remain its “growth engine.”  For the full year, analysts anticipate that per-share
profit will increase 4.7 percent, followed by gains of 7.6
percent and 9.3 percent in the next two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Since at least 1991, General Dynamics has
never had a three-year stretch of profit growth that didn’t
exceed 10 percent in at least one year, the data show.  ‘Buy Growth’  “There’s going to be no growth in defense budgets,” said
Brian Ruttenbur, a Nashville, Tennessee-based equity analyst at
Morgan Keegan & Co. To replace that, “they’re going to have to
go out and buy growth,” he said.  The last deal by General Dynamics for a publicly traded
company worth more than $1 billion was its $2.2 billion
acquisition of Fairfax, Virginia-based Anteon International
Corp. in 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Anteon designed, integrated, maintained and upgraded
computer systems for government agencies such as the Departments
of  Homeland Security  and Defense. General Dynamics bought
business-jet maker Gulfstream in 1999 for $5.4 billion including
net debt in its biggest acquisition, the data show.  General Dynamics, which has $2.5 billion in cash and short-
term investments, can add as much as $3 billion to its adjusted
long-term debt -- which includes pension obligations and
operating leases -- and still keep its B3H debt rating,
according to Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings.  Credit Ratings  The grade is three levels above junk, according to the
ratings, which analyze companies based on indebtedness,
profitability and other financial ratios. Borrowing more than
$15 billion would push the credit rating of General Dynamics to
junk level, the ratings show.  The company should use its cash to boost earnings through
acquisitions as defense spending slows, said  Keith Wirtz , chief
investment officer at Fifth Third Asset Management in
Cincinnati, which oversees $18 billion.  CAE, which has a market value of $3.3 billion and makes
aviation training technology for commercial-airline and military
pilots, would be a good fit, according to Wirtz. Sales at the
Montreal-based company will increase 11 percent next year, while
earnings will climb 16 percent, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Both are more than double the projections
for General Dynamics, the data show.  ‘More Opportunities’  “It would be almost intuitive that they start to do
strategic considerations,” Wirtz said. “What they are going to
be looking to do is to acquire new technologies and look for
companies that will give more opportunities that they don’t
already have. CAE might be an example.”  “CAE is not a company that is for sale,” said Nathalie Bourque, the company’s spokeswoman.  CAE advanced 0.6 percent to C$12.56 in Toronto.  Fiduciary Trust’s Mullaney says that General Dynamics
should consider a deal with an industrial company that
specializes in energy or health care.  “At best, it would be a field which potentially reduces
your exposure to government dependency, or puts you into a
complementary growth area,” he said. “Anything that helps
buffer General Dynamics from being so dependent on  government
spending  would be a step in the right direction.”  It could combine with  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO) , the
world’s largest maker of laboratory instruments, he said.  Laboratory Instruments  The company, which has a market value of $23.3 billion,
will increase profit by 56 percent this year -- 12 times the
rate projected for General Dynamics, analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors value  Thermo Fisher ’s stock at almost 22 times
earnings, more than twice the level for General Dynamics,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of Thermo Fisher gained 1.3 percent to $60.48.  Ron O’Brien, a spokesman for Waltham, Massachusetts-based
Thermo Fisher, declined to comment.  While General Dynamics may want to expand its maintenance
and repair services for Gulfstream customers, many of those
companies are small, privately held businesses, according to
 Peter Arment , an analyst who rates General Dynamics a “buy” at
Gleacher & Co. in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  One option would be to spin off the aerospace division
because it has been a “drag on this company for a while,” said
Fiduciary Trust’s Mullaney. While the aerospace unit had
operating income of $860 million last year, a 22 percent
increase from 2009, that’s still less than the $1.02 billion it
reported the prior year.  Buffett’s Criteria  General Dynamics was also one of more than 40 companies
that Bloomberg identified in March that met the acquisition
criteria  Warren Buffett  listed in his annual  letter  to
shareholders.  Buffett typically prefers “simple” businesses with
pretax profit exceeding $75 million, “consistent” earning
power, and “good” returns on equity while employing little or
no debt, according to his report. His takeover strategy has
shifted as Berkshire has grown to focus on “capital intensive
businesses,” such as power producers and railroads, which
require consistent investment in infrastructure and equipment.  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment e-mailed to
his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  Overall, there have been 8,499 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $839.2 billion, a 22 percent increase from
the $686.3 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at +1-212-617-5919 or  nbaker7@bloomberg.net  