-- 
German Bunds Set for Weekly Advance as Trichet Damps Interest-Rate Bets

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-05-06T15:46:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/german-two-year-note-yields-fall-to-lowest-in-week-before-industrial-data.html
German bunds rose, capping their
fourth weekly gain, after European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet signaled  interest rates  may stay unchanged next
month, confounding bets for higher borrowing costs.  The bund yield fell to a seven-week low, dropping below the
rate on 10-year U.S. Treasuries, as a report showed industrial
production growth slowed in  Europe ’s largest economy in March
and boosted demand for the safety of German fixed-income assets.
Greek two-year notes headed for a weekly advance after HSBC
Holdings Plc said the securities were “extremely cheap.”  “Bunds are outperforming,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-
income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London.
“Yesterday, we had a short, sharp burst of short-covering. What
we’ve got today is some further follow-through.”  The 10-year bund yield fell three basis points to 3.19
percent at 4:10 p.m. in  London , after reaching 3.16 percent, the
lowest since March 18. The 3.25 percent security maturing in
July 2021 rose 0.255, or 2.55 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,452) face
amount, to 100.545. On the week, the yield fell six basis
points.  Industrial output in  Germany  increased 0.7 percent from
February, when it surged 1.7 percent, the Economy Ministry in
Berlin said today. Economists forecast a 0.5 percent gain.  German  government bonds  have handed investors a loss of 1.4
percent this year, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Yields
have risen after investors added to bets that the central bank
will raise borrowing costs to contain inflation as economic
growth accelerates.  ‘Extremely Alert’  Trichet told Bloomberg Television in an interview in
Helsinki today that policy makers remain “extremely alert” on
inflation, and indicated they may make further decisions on the
pace of monetary tightening with new forecasts in June.
Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny told reporters that
investors over-interpreted the ECB’s message yesterday.  Treasuries fell today as data showed payrolls increased by
244,000 workers last month, the biggest gain since May 2010.
Economists projected a rise of 185,000, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The drop pushed the U.S.
yield to a premium over the rate on bunds.  U.S. government bonds have returned 1.8 percent this year
amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will keep interest rates at
a record low through next year.  The yield on two-year Greek notes was at 25.28 percent,
down from 25.35 percent on April 29, after HSBC said there is
little chance the nation will force a reorganization of its debt
on investors in the next year.  “Our central scenario is that  Greece  will avoid an
involuntary restructuring of its debt before June 2013,”  Steven Major , global head of fixed-income research at HSBC in London,
wrote in a client report dated yesterday. “Market valuations
appear out of sync with political and economic realities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  