-- 
German Bund Futures Climb as Der Spiegel Says Greece May Exit Euro Region

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-05-06T17:25:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/german-bund-futures-climb-as-der-spiegel-says-greece-may-exit-euro-region.html
German bund futures rose to an almost
one-month high after  Der Spiegel  reported that  Greece  is
considering withdrawing from the euro region, prompting
investors to seek a refuge in  Europe ’s benchmark securities.  The futures contract expiring in June climbed 0.6 percent
to 123.76 as of 6:20 p.m. in  London . Greece isn’t considering
abandoning use of the euro as its currency, the Athens-based
 Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement today. Such
reports have been repeatedly denied by Greece in the past as
well as by governments of other European Union countries, the
statement said.  Greece is lobbying for easier terms on the 110 billion
euros ($164 billion) of bailout loans as speculation of a
default mounts a year after European leaders set up the
unprecedented emergency fund to prevent the nation’s debt woes
from spreading.  “Some sort of Greek restructuring was priced in the
market, but the thought of them leaving the euro-zone never
really was,” said Anthony Cronin, a Treasury trader at Societe
General in  New York . “If there’s something that happens over
there this weekend, you’ve got to be properly positioned for
it.”  The euro fell against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts, extending its two-day loss as much as 3.1 percent,
the most since May 2010. U.S. Treasury notes reversed earlier
losses as investors also sought  U.S. government debt  as a haven.  Debt Burden  EU leaders agreed in March to create a permanent rescue
mechanism for the euro area, the European Stability Mechanism,
or ESM. The ESM, which becomes effective in mid-2013 after a
temporary facility expires, will make loans to fiscally strained
governments under strict conditions. When governments can’t
cover their debts in full, the ESM’s loans may be paid first,
before private bondholders.  Even under cuts imposed as a bailout condition, Greece’s
debt is forecast to climb to 159 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012. The nation’s economy is forecast by the
government to shrink for a third year in 2011, before returning
to growth in 2012.  Greece’s possible exit from the euro area isn’t being
discussed in the EU, said Steffen Seibert, German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman. “This isn’t on the table and
hasn’t been on the table for the German government and isn’t a
topic at the European level,” he said by telephone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  