-- 
German Refiners Cut Greener Gasoline Production on Slower Demand

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-05-06T11:24:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/german-refiners-cut-greener-gasoline-production-on-slower-demand.html
German refineries are reducing output
of cleaner, high-ethanol gasoline known as E10 after motorists
shunned the fuel.  E10 hasn’t met our expectations and refinery production has
been adjusted accordingly, a  BP Plc (BP/)  official said yesterday from
Bochum,  Germany , declining to be identified in line with company
policy. BP owns a stake in the Schwedt refinery northeast of
Berlin, the first plant to switch to E10 production.  “Production of E10 has been scaled back,” said Sigrid
Pook, head of the German fuel retailers’ association, which
represents 4,500 pump stations. Refiners switched back to so-
called Super gasoline, which contains 5 percent of ethanol, half
the amount of E10, Pook said.  Germany introduced E10 gasoline this year as it sought to
cut  carbon emissions  from transport fuel. About 57% of German
drivers said in March they wouldn’t buy the fuel, fearing it may
damage their cars, according to Mineraloelwirtschaftsverband,
the country’s Berlin-based petroleum industry association.
Motorists bought 114,000 metric tons of E10 in February compared
with 1.13 million tons of Super, or E5, government data show.
Total gasoline sales were 1.43 million tons.  “The German government made mandatory the use of E10,
which the bulk of the German drivers with big, sophisticated
gasoline engines refused to use,” Jean-Paul Vettier, chief
executive officer of Petroplus Holdings AG,  Europe ’s biggest
independent refiner, said yesterday on a conference call.  Roll-Out Halted  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which had planned to make E10
available at all its 2,200 retail stations, halted the roll-out
of E10 last month, Cornelia Wolber, a spokeswoman, said from
Hamburg. The fuel is available at about 1,000 of its stations in
Germany, she said.  The introduction of E10 began in southern and eastern parts
of Germany, after refineries in those areas including Schwedt
and the Miro plant in Karlsruhe started production of the grade.
Bayernoil Raffinerie GmbH, which operates plants in southern
Germany, also produces E10.  The European Union has pushed for a portion of motor fuel
to come from renewable sources as it seeks to combat  climate
change . Germany has a 6.25 percent target for biofuels, which is
met by adding ethanol to gasoline or rapeseed oil to diesel.  While the sale of E10 isn’t compulsory, it would be
difficult for  oil companies  to meet their renewable obligations
if they don’t sell it, Thomas Hagbeck, a spokesman at the
 Environment Ministry , said from Berlin yesterday.  Petroplus, which operates a refinery at Ingolstadt in the
southern German state of Bavaria, said it has benefitted from
strong demand for Super grade gasoline. Increased demand for E5
was a “market opportunity that we grasped,” Vettier said.  Germany’s 6.25 percent target on biofuels is a measure of
energy content. To meet that target on gasoline, 10 percent of
ethanol by volume must be added to the fuel. E10 is sold at the
pump under the Super E10 brand and has an octane of 95. An
octane number is an indicator of a fuel’s performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  