-- 
GM’s Opel to Sell Cars in Israel ‘Fairly Shortly,’ Reilly Says

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-05-06T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/gm-s-opel-to-sell-cars-in-israel-fairly-shortly-reilly-says.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel division
plans to start selling cars in Israel as the German brand
expands worldwide to markets including  South America  and Asia,
the head of GM’s European operations said.  The carmaker will start deliveries in Israel “fairly
shortly,” and begin sales in Argentina and Chile this year,
 Nick Reilly , president of GM Europe, said at a meeting with
journalists in Hamburg late yesterday. The division is also
sticking to plans to sell cars in  China  and  Australia  in the
future, he said.  Opel, which GM considered selling as the Detroit-based
company was working through a bankruptcy in 2009, was profitable
in the first quarter of this year. Reilly reiterated that Opel,
which has its headquarters in the Frankfurt suburb of
Ruesselsheim, aims to break even excluding restructuring costs
this year.  “It’s a reasonable target to have,” even as “there are a
few headwinds we have to face,” Reilly said.  The company forecast on March 1 that the western European
auto market will grow by 1 percent to 2 percent this year, and
that its own sales will be helped by new models such as the
revamped Meriva minivan and the Astra Sports Tourer. Opel and
its sister U.K. brand Vauxhall added market share in  Europe  in
the first quarter, accounting for 7.3 percent of sales compared
with 6.9 percent a year earlier, according to industry  figures .  Opel “had a particularly good month in April” in  Germany ,
Reilly said. “It tells us people are coming back to the brand.
It tells us that we are back to strength again.”  ‘Niche’ in China  In China, Opel is likely to have a “point something”
market share, selling between 1,000 and 10,000 cars, as it’s
positioned as “a relative niche brand” because of German
engineering and European style, he said.  Opel builds cars at three factories in Ruesselsheim,
Eisenach and Bochum in Germany, and makes engines and components
in Kaiserslautern. There are likely to be “forced
redundancies” in Bochum this year after the company failed to
get enough volunteers to quit as part of a plan to reduce the
workforce, Reilly said. Opel “hasn’t changed its plans,” he
said. “We need to lose those people.”  The carmaker won’t add capacity in western Europe through
new factories, Reilly said. The objective is to fill up volume
at existing plants as long as Opel’s market share increases, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg Fisc at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  