-- 
Goldman’s Blankfein Faces Investors Amid ‘Lingering Problems’

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-05-06T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/goldman-s-blankfein-faces-investors-amid-lingering-problems-.html
Lloyd C. Blankfein, chief executive
officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , has sought to quell
shareholder concerns about its bonuses and business practices at
the past two annual meetings. Today, he will try again.  As the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets hosts investors
for the first time at its building in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey ,
shareholders are still questioning Goldman Sachs’s actions
during the financial crisis, executive pay and business model.  “They really do have to reshape the firm and get the
message out there that ‘Look, here’s what we’re going to look
like going forward,’” said  Peter Sorrentino , a senior portfolio
manager at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, which
manages $14.8 billion, including almost 135,000 Goldman Sachs
shares. “I still think we’re one headline away from this stock
getting clobbered.”  Goldman Sachs was the most-profitable securities firm when
Blankfein, 56, took the helm almost five years ago. While the
company survived the financial crisis that bankrupted smaller
rival Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and repaid U.S. rescue funds
and  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., its practices
before the crisis have remained under scrutiny.  Goldman Sachs fell $1.11 to $150.41 yesterday on the New
York Stock Exchange and has dropped 10.6 percent this year,
compared with a 0.6 percent gain for the 82-member Standard &
Poor’s 500 Financials Index and a 6.2 percent advance for the
 S&P 500 Index .  $550 Million Settlement  At last year’s meeting, Blankfein created a business-
standards committee to study the firm’s practices and recommend
ways they could be improved. The committee, which issued a
 report  in January, was formed in part as a response to an April
2010 Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit alleging the
firm misled clients about a mortgage-linked investment. Goldman
Sachs paid $550 million in July to settle the suit.  The questions didn’t end there. Last month the U.S.
Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations issued a
report on the causes of the financial crisis that accused New
York-based Goldman Sachs of misleading clients in its sales of
mortgage securities, a charge the firm denies. The report was
referred to the  Justice Department  and the SEC, which have said
they are looking into it.  “There are still lingering problems” for Goldman Sachs,
said Benjamin B. Wallace, an analyst at Westborough,
Massachusetts-based Grimes & Co., which manages about $1 billion
and doesn’t own Goldman Sachs stock. “If the Senate and the SEC
and the  Department of Justice  would stop investigating them they
could probably put it behind them.”  ‘Sins of the Past’  The business-standards committee was a good idea for public
relations and a useful guide for future conduct, “but the
problem is that does not absolve you from the sins of the
past,” said Huntington’s Sorrentino.  “I would not at this moment say that any financial
services firm, especially Goldman, who was preeminent during
that whole time, is out of the woods on this,” he said. “At
this juncture, given the magnitude of what happened, I don’t
know what the time window is.”  At the meeting two years ago, as public outrage over Wall
Street bonuses swelled following the government bailouts of
financial institutions, Blankfein read shareholders a
description of Goldman Sachs’s  compensation principles . The
principles included an emphasis on tying pay to long-term firm
performance and avoiding multiyear guarantees.  Cash Bonuses  Blankfein, who’s also Goldman Sachs’s chairman, and top
deputies including Gary D. Cohn, president and chief operating
officer, and David A. Viniar, chief financial officer, received
no bonuses for 2008 and no cash bonuses for 2009. Earlier this
year, Goldman Sachs disclosed that it was increasing salaries
for Blankfein and his deputies and paid Blankfein $19 million
for 2010, including a $5.4 million cash bonus.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.  recommended that
stockholders cast a non-binding vote against the awards for
Goldman Sachs’s executive officers. The ISS report cites a
“pay-for-performance disconnect” after Goldman Sachs’s
executives’ compensation increased even as profits fell last
year.  Glass Lewis & Co. , another proxy advisory service,
expressed concern about Goldman Sachs’s “opaque program” for
determining compensation, even though it recommended that
shareholders vote in favor of the awards.  Social Responsibility  Christian Brothers Investment Services Inc. , which manages
$4 billion and owns about 68,000 Goldman Sachs shares, is voting
against the pay awards this year, said Julie Tanner, the firm’s
assistant director of social responsibility.  “I don’t think that the pay level is justified,” Tanner
said in an interview. “There’s a level beyond which pay is not
appropriate and needs to be reined in, and I think this company
is one of those examples.”  For investors like Sorrentino, a bigger concern is how the
company plans to drive revenue and profit growth going forward.
Although the firm rebounded from the crisis to achieve record
profit in 2009, earnings sagged last year and in the first
quarter of 2011.  Goldman Sachs’s return on equity, a measure of how well the
firm reinvests shareholder capital, dropped to 11.5 percent in
2010 from 32.7 percent three years earlier. While it still beats
competitors including Morgan Stanley, whose 2010 return on
equity from continuing operations was 8.5 percent, investors
question whether the firm can achieve its former profitability.  “There is a more competitive framework out there and they
do have to scrape for business,” Sorrentino said. “In the
regulatory environment we find ourselves in, where does Goldman
sit in all this? How should we set our expectations for success
going forward?”  Two More Years  Blankfein’s future at the firm continues to be subject to
speculation. Earlier this week, the New York Post, citing people
it didn’t identify,  reported  that Blankfein is likely to stay
for at least two more years. The company has said he has no
plans to leave.  “Probably starting about now is when he could safely leave
and say he got Goldman through everything,” said Grimes & Co.’s
Wallace. “But maybe with all the PR stuff, you want to stay on
because one thing you want to do when you turn it over to new
leadership is have a clean slate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 