-- 
Goldman BRIC Fund Among Most Hurt by ‘Panic’ Selling in Commodities Market

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-05-06T20:29:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/goldman-bric-fund-among-most-hurt-by-panic-selling-in-commodities-market.html
Emerging-markets funds managed by
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  were among
the U.S.-registered mutual funds that fell the most in this
week’s commodities selloff.  The $831 million  Goldman Sachs BRIC Fund (GBRAX)  and the $825
million  Templeton BRIC Fund (TABRX) , which focus on Brazil,  China ,  India 
and  Russia , both dropped 5.7 percent in the week ended
yesterday. The funds, from New York-based Goldman Sachs and
Franklin Resources in San Mateo,  California , were the biggest
losers among diversified equity funds with more than $500
million in assets and at least 20 percent in energy or basic
materials stocks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Commodities plunged yesterday as investors accelerated
sales following year-to-date gains through April of more than 23
percent for silver, oil, gasoline and coffee. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities sank 6.5 percent in the
biggest one-day drop since January 2009, bringing its loss this
week to 9.9 percent.  “It was a train wreck waiting to happen,” Michael Mullaney, portfolio manager at Boston-based Fiduciary Trust,
said in a telephone interview. Speculation drove commodity
prices well above reasonable levels, “and we are going to see
it shake out some more before we get back to normal prices,”
said Mullaney, who helps manage $9.5 billion.  Oil tumbled 8.6 percent yesterday, the most in two years,
to $99.80 a barrel. Silver dropped 8 percent.  The Dow Jones BRIC 50 Index declined 5.1 percent from April
28 through yesterday.  Oil fell 2.6 percent today to $97.18 a barrel, the lowest
close since March 15. Silver dropped 2.6 percent to $35.29,
capping the week’s plunge at 27 percent, the biggest since at
least 1975.  ‘New Risks’  The leaders of the four countries plus  South Africa , a
group known as the BRICS, said last month that excessively
volatile commodity prices pose “new risks for the ongoing
recovery of the world economy.”  The $726 million DWS Latin America Equity Fund, managed by
the funds unit of Frankfurt’s Deutsche Bank AG, fell 5.4 percent
in the past week. Boston-based Fidelity Investments’ $5.46
billion Canada Fund lost 5.3 percent, and the $1.4 billion FPA
Capital Fund, run by Los Angeles-based First Pacific Advisors
LLC, dropped 4.6 percent.  Mutual funds and exchange-traded funds dedicated to
commodities, including index-based products, suffered steeper
declines. The  ProShares Ultra Silver (AGQ)  ETF, designed to return
twice the daily performance of silver, plummeted 51 percent in
the week. Non-leveraged silver ETFs fell about 30 percent.  Bill Miller, manager of the $3.94 billion  Legg Mason
Capital Management Value Trust (LMVTX) , said in an April 19 letter to
investors that he saw little value in commodities. He pointed to
research from Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. showing that commodity
returns relative to stock returns were at a 200-year high on a
rolling 10-year basis.  ‘Cyclical’ Returns  “One thing is clear from the analysis of long-term
commodity returns: they are cyclical,” Miller wrote.  Open interest in silver futures has tumbled about 15
percent since the Comex exchange in  New York  began raising
margin requirements on April 25. Futures on Brent crude, crude
oil, heating oil, gasoline and natural gas plunged more than 6.9
percent yesterday.  Crude oil dropped below $100 a barrel for the first time
since March 17. Copper futures slumped 3.3 percent, falling
below $4 a pound for the first time in five months. Among
agricultural commodities, cocoa, cotton, corn and weak retreated
more than 2.3 percent in futures trading.  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer for Chicago-based
Harris Private Bank, said commodity prices would eventually
resume their climb.  “I don’t think we have lost the tail wind,” Harris, who
helps manage $55 billion, said in a phone interview. “They may
have moved up too far too fast, but the long-term underpinnings
for higher prices are still in place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  