-- 
Goldman Sachs Investors Re-Elect Company’s Directors, Approve ‘Say-on-Pay’

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-05-06T16:49:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/goldman-sachs-investors-re-elect-company-s-directors-approve-say-on-pay-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, said shareholders re-elected the
company’s directors and approved a compensation plan for top
executives.  Directors were re-elected with 90 percent of the vote and
the pay awards for named executive officers were approved by 73
percent in a so-called say on pay vote, General Counsel  Greg Palm  said today at the New York-based bank’s shareholder meeting
in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . None of the proposals submitted by
shareholders was approved, Palm said.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and
top deputies including Gary D. Cohn, president and chief
operating officer, and David A. Viniar, chief financial officer,
received no bonuses for 2008 and no cash bonuses for 2009.
Earlier this year, Goldman Sachs said it was increasing salaries
for Blankfein and his deputies and paid Blankfein $19 million
for 2010, including a $5.4 million cash bonus.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.  recommended
stockholders cast a non-binding vote against the awards for
executive officers. The ISS report cited a “pay-for-performance
disconnect” after Goldman Sachs’s executives’ compensation
increased even as profits fell last year.  Glass Lewis & Co. , another proxy advisory service,
expressed concern about Goldman Sachs’s “opaque program” for
determining compensation, even though it recommended that
shareholders vote in favor of the awards.  Social Responsibility  Christian Brothers Investment Services Inc. , which manages
$4 billion and owns about 68,000 Goldman Sachs shares, voted
against the pay awards this year, Julie Tanner, the firm’s
assistant director of social responsibility, said in an
interview before the meeting.  “I don’t think that the pay level is justified,” Tanner
said. “There’s a level beyond which pay is not appropriate and
needs to be reined in, and I think this company is one of those
examples.”  Goldman Sachs was the most-profitable securities firm when
Blankfein, 56, took the helm almost five years ago. While the
company survived the financial crisis that bankrupted smaller
rival Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and repaid U.S. rescue funds
and  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., its practices
before the crisis have remained under scrutiny.  At last year’s meeting, Blankfein created a business-
standards committee to study the firm’s practices and recommend
ways they could be improved. The committee, which issued a
 report  in January, was formed in part as a response to an April
2010 Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit alleging the
firm misled clients about a mortgage-linked investment. Goldman
Sachs paid $550 million in July to settle the suit.  Senate Probe  The questions didn’t end there. Last month the U.S.
Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations issued a
report on the causes of the financial crisis that accused New
York-based Goldman Sachs of misleading clients in its sales of
mortgage securities, a charge the firm denies. The report was
referred to the  Justice Department  and the SEC, which have said
they are looking into it.  “There are still lingering problems” for Goldman Sachs,
said Benjamin B. Wallace, an analyst at Westborough,
Massachusetts-based Grimes & Co., which manages about $1 billion
and doesn’t own Goldman Sachs stock. “If the Senate and the SEC
and the  Department of Justice  would stop investigating them they
could probably put it behind them.”  Goldman Sachs rose 12 cents, or 0.1 percent, to $150.53 in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange at 12:06 p.m.
It has dropped 11 percent this year, compared with a 1.5 percent
gain for the 82-member Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index
and a 7.3 percent advance for the  S&P 500 Index .  Compensation Principles  At the meeting two years ago, as public outrage over Wall
Street bonuses swelled following the government bailouts of
financial institutions, Blankfein read shareholders a
description of Goldman Sachs’s  compensation principles . The
principles included an emphasis on tying pay to long-term firm
performance and avoiding multiyear guarantees.  Although the firm rebounded from the crisis to achieve
record profit in 2009, earnings sagged last year and in the
first quarter of 2011.  Goldman Sachs’s return on equity, a measure of how well the
firm reinvests shareholder capital, dropped to 11.5 percent in
2010 from 32.7 percent three years earlier. While it still beats
competitors including Morgan Stanley, whose 2010 return on
equity from continuing operations was 8.5 percent, investors
question whether the bank can achieve its former profitability.  ‘Scrape for Business’  “There is a more competitive framework out there and they
do have to scrape for business,” said  Peter Sorrentino , a
senior portfolio manager at Huntington Asset Advisors in
Cincinnati, which manages $14.8 billion, including almost
135,000 Goldman Sachs shares. “In the regulatory environment we
find ourselves in, where does Goldman sit in all this? How
should we set our expectations for success going forward?”  Blankfein’s future at the firm continues to be subject to
speculation. Earlier this week, the New York Post, citing people
it didn’t identify,  reported  that Blankfein is likely to stay
for at least two more years. The company has said he has no
plans to leave.  “Probably starting about now is when he could safely leave
and say he got Goldman through everything,” said Grimes & Co.’s
Wallace. “But maybe with all the PR stuff, you want to stay on
because one thing you want to do when you turn it over to new
leadership is have a clean slate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 