-- 
Goldman Pay Plan Supported by Fewer Shareholders as Blankfein Pay Doubles

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-05-06T20:16:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/goldman-pay-plan-supported-by-fewer-shareholders-as-blankfein-pay-doubles.html
Shareholder approval for  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s 2010 compensation plan, which doubled pay for
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, tumbled
to 73 percent from 96 percent a year ago.  General Counsel Gregory K. Palm announced the vote tally at
the end of today’s annual meeting, held for the first time at
Goldman Sachs’s building in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  “It’s significant when you’ve got a quarter of all shares
voting against,” said Julie Tanner, assistant director of
social responsibility at  Christian Brothers Investment Services
Inc. , which manages $4 billion and owns about 67,000 shares of
New York-based Goldman Sachs. “What is the board going to do to
show that it’s responsive to shareholder concerns?”  Goldman Sachs, which set a record for Wall Street bonuses
in 2007, has given shareholders a non-binding advisory vote on
compensation, known as “say on pay,” for the past two years.
Shareholders at today’s meeting approved a measure that will
give them such a vote every year.  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman for the bank, declined to
comment on the voting results. Shares of the company fell 31
cents, or 0.2 percent, to $150.10 in composite trading on the
New York Stock Exchange at 4:15 p.m. They are down 11 percent
this year.  Pay ‘Disconnect’  Blankfein’s $19 million compensation for 2010, which
included a $5.4 million cash bonus, was almost double the prior
year’s award even as profits fell and the share price was little
changed.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.  recommended
stockholders vote against the compensation plan, citing a “pay-
for-performance disconnect.”  All six shareholder proposals were defeated at today’s
meeting, including two relating to pay. One would have required
named executive officers including Blankfein to retain 75
percent of their stock for at least three years after leaving
the company. The other would compel the board’s compensation
committee to review the firm’s policies and submit a report to
shareholders by Oct. 1.  “There’s an apparent lack of any serious commitment to pay
for performance,” said  Lance E. Lindblom , president and CEO of
the  Nathan Cummings Foundation , which submitted the proposal
requesting a report on compensation policies. Goldman Sachs is
“taking money from the company’s owners, its shareholders, to
reward executives presiding over its decline.”  All 11 members of the company’s board of directors won re-
election with more than 90 percent of the vote, Palm said.  Lehman, Buffett  Goldman Sachs was the most-profitable securities firm when
Blankfein, 56, took the helm almost five years ago. While the
company survived the financial crisis that bankrupted smaller
rival Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and repaid U.S. rescue funds
and  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., its practices
before the crisis have remained under scrutiny.  At last year’s meeting, Blankfein created a business-
standards committee to study the firm’s practices and recommend
ways they could be improved. The committee, which issued a
 report  in January, was formed in part as a response to an April
2010 Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit alleging the
firm misled clients about a mortgage-linked investment. Goldman
Sachs paid $550 million in July to settle the suit.  In the self-examination that went into the business
standards committee report, Goldman Sachs learned “that not
every element of the firm was always operating in a way that was
of the highest order,” Blankfein said. “Not everybody will be
happy all the time. We do the best we can do.”  Legal Fees  In response to shareholder questions at today’s meeting,
Palm disclosed that the firm spent $726 million on legal fees
last year and employs 286 full-time lawyers, up from 252 a year
ago.  Last month the U.S. Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations issued a report on the causes of the financial
crisis that accused Goldman Sachs of misleading clients in its
sales of mortgage securities, a charge the firm denies. The
report was referred to the  Justice Department  and the SEC, which
have said they are looking into it.  “The Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations issued a
report and we take into account all of it and we disagree with
some of it,” Blankfein said at today’s meeting. He added that
the company is trying to learn from the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 