-- 
Google Loses Copyright Appeal Over Internet Links to Belgian Newspapers

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-05-06T15:19:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/google-loses-copyright-appeal-over-links-to-belgian-newspapers.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  lost an attempt to
overturn a Belgian ruling that blocked it from publishing links
to local newspapers on its online news service.  The Court of Appeal in Brussels on May 5 upheld a 2007
lower court ruling that forced Google to remove links and
snippets of articles from French- and German-language Belgian
newspapers from Google.com and Google.be. Google, the owner of
the world’s most-used search engine, faced a 25,000-euro
($36,300) daily fine for any delay in implementing the judgment.  Copiepresse, the group that filed the suit on behalf of the
newspapers, said the snippets generated revenue for the  search
engines  and that publishers should be paid for the content. The
publications have a second suit pending in which they seek as
much as 49.1 million euros for the period in which their content
was visible on Google News.  “This case sets a precedent,” said Flip Petillion, a
Brussels-based partner with Crowell & Moring LLP, who wasn’t
involved with the case. “Google has every interest in taking
the debate to the highest level, they have no choice” other
than to appeal, he said.  Google said it remains committed to further collaborate
with publishers in finding “new ways for them to make money
from online news.” Google has the option to appeal the ruling
to the Cour de Cassation,  Belgium ’s highest court.  ‘Fully Compliant’  “We believe Google News to be fully compliant with
copyright law and we’ll review the decision to decide our next
course of action,”  Mountain View , California-based Google said
in an e-mailed statement. “We believe that referencing
information with short headlines and direct links to the source
-- as it is practiced by search engines, Google News and just
about everyone on the web -- is not only legal but also
encourages web users to read newspapers online.”  Copiepresse said in a statement it is pleased with the
decision and “hopes Google will have the intelligence to look
for a fair solution to end this situation.”  “This case will have serious consequences to the way
information is searched and managed” on the Internet, Erik Valgaeren, a lawyer for Google, told the Court of Appeal at a
Feb. 23 hearing. A negative ruling “would put at risk all
referencing services, or even cause them to disappear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  