-- 
Gores Brothers Said to Consider Increasing Their Offer for Warner Music

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-05-06T22:35:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/gores-said-to-weigh-raising-warner-music-bid-to-trump-blavatnik-s-takeover.html
Tom and Alec Gores are considering a
revised bid for  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG) , said a person with
knowledge of the situation, challenging the record company’s
agreement to be bought for $3.3 billion.  The brothers, private-equity billionaires, are weighing an
offer of $8.35 to $8.50 a share, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the deliberations are private. Warner
Music agreed today to be bought for $8.25 a share, or $1.3
billion plus assumed debt, by Len Blavatnik’s Access Industries.  Warner Music’s board can consider higher offers for 30 to
60 days, the person said. The size of a new bid will hinge on
any breakup fee pledged to Blavatnik, and whether the company
reports higher-than-estimated earnings on May 10, the person
said. The Gores are contacting Sony Corp.’s music division and
Vivendi SA’s Universal Music to join them, the person said.  Will Tanous, a Warner Music spokesman in  New York , declined
to comment, as did Mark Barnhill, a spokesman for Tom Gores’s
Platinum Equity in  Beverly Hills ,  California . A spokesman for
Alec Gores also wouldn’t comment.  Warner Music climbed 28 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $8.18 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The $8.25 purchase price agreed to with Blavatnik, a former
Warner Music director, represents a 75 percent premium over the
close of $4.72 on Jan. 20, before the New York Times reported
the company hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to recruit bidders.  Edgar Bronfman, chairman and chief executive officer of
Warner Music, holds about 10.8 million shares, or close to 7
percent of the stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The shares are valued at $88.9 million under the $8.25-a-share
agreement.  Improved Terms  On Jan. 18, two days before it was known the company was
seeking a buyer, the board improved the terms of stock grants to
Bronfman and another senior executive, Vice Chairman Lyor Cohen,
according to a regulatory filing the following day.  Under Bronfman’s revised grants, which are 60 percent
vested, the CEO will receive 825,000 shares if the stock stays
over $7 for 60 trading days and an equal number if the stock
stays above $8 for the same period of time, according to the
filing. The stock had to reach at least $10 previously.  Warner Music  said today it expected the agreement with
Blavatnik to close during the third quarter.  Eight of Warner Music’s 13 directors are executives of
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and Bain Capital LLC, two Boston-based
private-equity firms that together hold 51 percent of the
company’s shares.  Extended Auction  If the Gores move ahead with a new bid, they will extend a
three-month auction that also included a joint offer from Sony’s
music unit, billionaire investor Ronald Perelman and Chicago-
based private equity company Guggenheim Partners LLC.  Blavatnik or another buyer of Warner Music may seek to buy
London-based EMI Group Ltd., seized by creditor Citigroup Inc.
this year, in an industry struggling to boost digital revenue to
offset the impact of falling CD sales and piracy.  “The  music industry  is at an inflection point where
digital adoption is rapidly gaining momentum,” Jorg Mohaupt,
head of media at Blavatnik’s Access Industries, said in the
statement. “Warner Music, as one of the most progressive forces
in the music business, is well positioned to capture this
opportunity for music creation and distribution.”  Citigroup’s takeover of EMI, which struggled to meet the
terms of loans used to finance its takeover by  Guy Hands , may
spark a reorganization of the music industry involving Warner
Music, analysts including  Laura Martin  at Needham & Co. said
before today’s deal. Warner Music had worked on a possible bid
for EMI before it was seized, a person familiar with the plan
said at the time.  Billionaire Industrialist  Blavatnik, 53, a billionaire industrialist, has made clear
his interest in U.S. entertainment assets since bidding
unsuccessfully last year for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. In 2009,
he bought the U.K. distribution arm of  Mel Gibson ’s Icon Group,
gaining international rights to the actor’s work and films
including “Driving Miss Daisy” and “Dances With Wolves.”  Blavatnik was estimated to be worth $10.1 billion in March
by Forbes magazine. His all-cash purchase was approved by Warner
Music’s board, the company said. Blavatnik secured some
financing from Credit Suisse and  UBS Investment Bank .  Record companies  including Warner Music have faced
shrinking revenue and piracy even as the digital music industry
boomed with the advent of Apple Inc.’s iPod and iTunes store.  Warner Music’s revenue has declined to $2.98 billion in
2010 from $3.52 billion in 2006, and was projected to fall
further to $2.7 billion this year, the average of six analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Erlichman in  San Francisco  at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  