-- 
Grasso Says NYSE Needs to ‘Globalize’ Franchise to Include Asia

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-05-06T15:32:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/grasso-says-nyse-euronext-needs-to-globalize-its-franchise-to-include-asia.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the biggest operator of
U.S. equity exchanges, must expand into Asia after agreeing to
be purchased by Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , said Richard Grasso, the former chairman and chief executive officer of the
New York Stock Exchange.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
approved a direct offer to shareholders to buy NYSE Euronext
this week, formalizing their hostile bid. NYSE Euronext’s board
has stuck with its takeover agreement from Feb. 15 with Deutsche
Boerse that would create a company with equity and futures
markets in the U.S. and Europe.  “The appropriate question is ‘How do you as an exchange
operator globalize your franchise across geographies, across
products?’” said Grasso in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “I don’t think
it’s a matter of asking the question ‘How can  New York  be taken
over by a non-U.S. player?’”  Grasso said the “piece missing from the equation” in both
offers that’s key for the U.S. to remain competitive is a
potential merger with an exchange in Asia, such as one in Hong
Kong or Tokyo. The world’s largest market owner by stock value
is Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. at $24.2 billion,
compared with $16 billion for Deutsche Boerse and $10.5 billion
for NYSE Euronext.  “To truly be a global market, you need all three of those
arenas sitting under the same franchise,” he said. “A lot of
competitive capital markets have said ‘Stay away from the U.S.’
That’s wrong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  