-- 
Illinois Democrats Enrage Public-Worker Unions With Drive to Tame Pensions

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-05-06T04:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/illinois-democrats-enrage-public-worker-unions-with-drive-to-tame-pensions.html
Illinois Democrats are leading a
charge to reduce the state’s pension costs, provoking a million-
dollar opposition ad campaign from their traditional allies,
public-sector unions, and signaling a new phase in efforts to
contain retirement expenses.  While the push to control public worker benefits and wages
has been defined this year by clashes over collective bargaining
in Republican-dominated Wisconsin and  Ohio , Democrats in states
such as Connecticut and  Massachusetts  are pushing for
concessions as well.  In Illinois, which has underfunded pensions for decades,
Democratic House Speaker Michael Madigan has suggested cutting
benefits. Senate President John Cullerton is backing a bill to
make retirees pay premiums for health care and to force school
districts to shoulder more teacher-retirement costs. Lawmakers
may act before the session ends in three weeks.  “We paid our share for the pension and the politicians did
not put in their fair share,” said Kathy Reno, 55, a certified
nurse’s aide at the state-run LaSalle Veterans’ Home, who makes
about $38,000 a year. “Why should we be punished for something
they didn’t do?”  In the Legislature, committee work continues on bills that
would require active and retired employees to pay more for
benefits. Steve Brown, Madigan’s spokesman, said yesterday that
the details haven’t been worked out.  “There are questions that need to be resolved,” Brown
said.  On The Air  Unions aren’t waiting for details. This week a labor
coalition, We Are One  Illinois , started a television  ad campaign 
it said cost $1 million aimed at stopping changes to pensions
and health care.  “All I have is the pension I paid for,” says one voice in
a 30-second montage featuring a firefighter, teacher and police
officer. “But the politicians broke their promise, failed to
make payments. And now they want to punish me for their mess?”  The campaign comes after  radio ads  from a Chicago-based
business group called the Illinois Is Broke Campaign that warn
public employee benefits could “bankrupt the state.”  “Right now, 95 percent pay higher taxes so 5 percent --
bureaucrats and other public workers -- can retire at 55,” one
ad says. “Sweet deal for them. Raw deal for us.”  Illinois manages pension funds for state employees,
teachers, university employees, judges and lawmakers, and it has
the least-sound system, with a funded ratio of about 51 percent,
followed by Oklahoma and  Kentucky , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  In The Hole  Illinois’s unfunded pension liability is at least $80
billion and it has amassed a $40 billion long-term obligation
for retired public employees’s health care, according to a
report from the  Pew Center for the States .  The state spends $473 million annually on retiree health
care, while the retirees themselves pay about $12 million,
according to the Department of Healthcare and Family Services.  “Illinois is in a lot of difficulty,” Madigan said in a
March 29 speech in Springfield, the capital.  The state is projected to close the current fiscal year
June 30 with $8 billion in unpaid bills, according to the
comptroller’s office. Madigan cited health-care benefits as a
“problem that demands attention” and “demands action.”  A 67 percent increase in the state income tax approved in
January will produce $6 billion annually, Madigan said in the
speech to the Associated Firefighters of Illinois. That’s “the
exact amount of money that the Legislature will be required to
pay over to the five state pension systems in the next budget.”  Devouring All  House Republican Leader Tom Cross sponsored a bill that
would require a higher employee retirement contribution and let
workers enter a self-managed  retirement plan . He said he expects
a vote before the end of the month because benefit costs have
the potential of “overtaking everything else.”  “It’s our third-highest expenditure in the budget this
year,” Cross said in a telephone interview from Springfield.  “People who are currently in the system are not putting in
enough to justify or support the benefit they are getting,”
Cross said. “I don’t see it as a reduction at all. I see this
as an adjustment to put you on par with the benefits you are
going to get.”  It isn’t clear that a benefit cut will be part of the
package. Cullerton has said that would violate the state
constitution, which says benefits “shall not be diminished or
impaired.”  Public workers in  Colorado ,  South Dakota  and  Minnesota  are
suing their states, which are among 18 that want to increase
employee contributions, raise the  retirement age  or curb cost-
of-living increases.  “There’s a core fairness question here,” said Anders
Lindall, spokesman for the  American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees  in Illinois. “They’ve been paying all
of their careers while politicians have been shirking their
share.”  Lawmakers, he said, are looking “at what they can get away
with, within the context of the constitution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in  Chicago  at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  