-- 
Lime Wire Founder Gorton to Testify Next Week in Copyright-Damages Trial

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-05-06T19:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/lime-wire-founder-gorton-to-testify-next-week-in-copyright-damages-trial.html
Lime Wire  LLC founder Mark Gorton is
set to testify May 9 in a trial to determine how much he will
have to pay the music recording industry for infringing
copyrights.  Music labels owned by  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG) ,  Sony Corp. (6758) 
 Vivendi SA (VIV)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are seeking hundreds of millions
of dollars from Gorton after U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood 
ruled last May that Lime Wire induced the infringement of
thousands of songs through its peer-to-peer file-sharing
software on the Internet. The court ordered Lime Wire to shut
its music service last year.  “The harm that Lime Wire has caused is truly staggering,”
Glenn Pomerantz, a lawyer representing 13 labels, told a jury of
eight women and one man in his opening statement on May 3.
“Mark Gorton used other people’s property to make money for
himself.”  Pomerantz told the jury the record industry’s revenue fell
52 percent from 2000, the year Lime Wire was founded, to 2010.
Gorton’s lawyers will try to show that other factors were
responsible for the drop besides peer-to-peer, or P2P, file-
sharing.  “The  record companies  know and have known that their
problems started well before Lime Wire,” Joseph Baio, a lawyer
representing Lime Wire and Gorton, said in his opening statement
to the jury.’  Past Comments  Baio cited the record companies’ own past comments that he
said showed factors other than file-sharing were more to blame
for the plunge in revenue. These included counterfeit and copied
CDs, the economic recession, bankruptcies of music wholesalers
and retailers, the maturation of the CD market, competition from
other forms of entertainment such as video games, and the
industry’s own inability to exploit the new technologies.  The record labels  haven’t made public how much they’re
seeking from Gorton. The companies will try to get statutory
damages under federal copyright law for 9,561 recordings
released since 1972, according to court papers. If they seek
maximum statutory damages of $150,000 for each recording, that
could result in a $1.4 billion award. Other damages on pre-1972
recordings will also be sought, the companies said in court
filings.  “We will ask you to consider whether  Mark Gorton ’s state
of mind justifies the high end of the range,” Pomerantz said to
the jurors.  Baio said the labels deserved far less. Gorton made only
about $6 million from the songs the record companies have listed
as infringed, the lawyer said. Lime Wire, which provided free
software for file sharing, made money by selling a faster,
premium version of the program.  The case is Arista Records LLC v. Lime Wire LLC, 06-05936,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  