-- 
Independencia to Auction Meatpacking Assets to Help Pay Debt After Default

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 
2011-05-06T19:06:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/independencia-to-auction-meatpacking-assets-to-help-pay-debt-after-default.html
Independencia SA, the Brazilian
meatpacker whose creditors include  Citigroup Inc. (C) , said it will
auction assets for at least 706.9 million reais ($440 million)
to help pay debt.  Independencia, which has been operating under  bankruptcy
protection  since February 2009, will accept bids through July
12, according to a statement dated yesterday on the Cajamar,
Brazil-based company’s website. The sale includes three
slaughterhouses, three plots of land and two warehouses.  Under the plan, which was approved by creditors in a
meeting on March 3, bidders will be required to inject at least
150 million reais into the company, Independencia said.
Creditors plan to meet July 22 in  Sao Paulo  to vote on the bids,
according to the statement. The meeting may be rescheduled for
July 29 if enough creditors aren’t present on the first date.  Independencia, which halted production in October 2010,
reported debt of 1.5 billion reais and cash of 5.4 million reais
June 30, the latest figures available. Creditors include
Citigroup and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The company missed an interest payment on its 2015 senior
notes in September. It was due to pay about $12 million on $165
million of its 15 percent bonds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Last February, creditors rejected a rescue plan presented
by Alfredo Chang, representative of potential investors. The
plan proposed to swap bonds for convertible debt and extend
maturity of payments. Chang didn’t return a call from Bloomberg
News seeking comment on the auction of assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 