-- 
India’s Bonds Complete Fourth Weekly Decline on Rate Increase

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-05-06T12:23:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/india-s-bonds-complete-fourth-weekly-decline-on-rate-increase.html
India ’s government bonds completed a
fourth weekly loss after the central bank raised borrowing costs
for the ninth time since the start of last year.  The  Reserve Bank  of India lifted the repurchase rate by 0.5
percentage point to 7.25 percent on May 3, as predicted by seven
of 25 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Eighteen had forecast an
increase of a quarter-percentage point. Inflation may stay
around 9 percent until September because of higher fuel prices,
the central bank said in a statement the same day.  “Inflation continues to be a major concern,” said  Anoop Verma , a fixed-income trader at Development Credit Bank Ltd. in
Mumbai. “You can expect more interest-rate increases down the
line.”  The yield on the 7.80 percent note due April 2021 rose four
basis points this week, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.17
percent as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the
central bank’s trading system.  The rate fell nine basis points today, spurred by demand
for debt following this week’s drop in  oil prices , Verma said.  Crude declined 15 percent this week to $97.28 per barrel in
electronic trading on the New York Mercantile exchange. Prices
are up almost 7 percent this year.  Official data on April 15 showed India’s benchmark
wholesale price index rose 8.98 percent in March from a year
earlier, exceeding the  Reserve Bank of India ’s 8 percent
estimate. Numbers for April are due May 16.  The cost of one-year interest-rate, or derivative contracts
used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs, rose 17
basis points this week to 8.05 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  