-- 
German Industrial Production Increased in March, Led by Construction Surge

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-05-06T11:26:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/industrial-production-rose-for-third-month-in-march-led-by-construction.html
German industrial production rose for
a third month in March as construction surged, adding to signs
 Europe ’s largest economy gathered strength in the first quarter.  Output increased 0.7 percent from February, when it rose
1.7 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists had forecast a gain of 0.5 percent, the median of 21
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. In the year,
production rose 11.2 percent when adjusted for working days.  Germany’s economy has powered euro-region growth as
companies boosted spending and hiring to meet export demand.
 Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts maker,
yesterday reported its highest profit in more than three years.
The economy may have expanded as much as 1 percent in the first
three months of the year and may maintain its growth momentum in
the current quarter, according to the Bundesbank.  “With today’s industrial production numbers, a smashing
growth performance in the first quarter is almost done and
dusted,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group NV in
Brussels. “Even if the period of almost Chinese growth rates
has come to an end, the German economy will remain the economic
powerhouse of the euro zone.”  The euro traded at $1.4529 at 1:15 p.m. in Frankfurt,
little changed from yesterday.  Construction Surge  Construction jumped 6.2 percent in March from the previous
month, when it advanced 3.4 percent, today’s report showed.
Manufacturing output rose 0.5 percent and production of
investment goods gained 0.8 percent. The ministry revised up the
gain in overall February industrial output from 1.6 percent.  While the “upward trend” production continues, it may
“moderate to some extent,” the ministry said. The surge in
construction output was “probably exaggerated,” it added.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, said on
May 4 profit this year will rise at least 75 percent as
companies step up investment in industrial equipment. Munich-
based Siemens has created 12,000 jobs worldwide since October
and still has 3,800 unfilled positions in Germany alone, Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  said.  The German economy will expand 2.8 percent this year and 2
percent in 2012, the country’s leading economic institutes,
which advise Chancellor  Angela Merkel , predicted last month. In
2010, the economy grew a record 3.6 percent. Unemployment fell
below 3 million for the first time in almost 19 years in April
on a seasonally adjusted basis.  ‘Success Story’  MAN SE (MAN) , Europe’s third-largest truck-maker, said on May 3
first-quarter operating profit more than doubled on higher
demand from freight transporters and construction companies. At
the same time, MAN is looking at the risk of faster inflation in
Europe,  Brazil  and  China , with prices a concern in all markets,
Chief Financial Officer Frank Lutz said.  The economy may struggle to gather strength as surging  oil
prices  leave households with less money to spend while
governments from Ireland to Spain toughen austerity measures.
Factory orders unexpectedly dropped in March from the previous
month, the ministry said yesterday. Business confidence weakened
in April and investors also grew less optimistic.  The European Central Bank yesterday kept its benchmark
interest rate at 1.25 percent, with President Jean-Claude Trichet saying in an interview with Bloomberg Television today
that a drop in crude oil prices to below $100 a barrel is “good
from the inflation standpoint,” while also helping the economic
recovery.  “The best in terms of dynamic probably lies behind us,”
said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group in Munich.
“This does definitely not signal an imminent end to the success
story. So far, all clear for the industry fast train.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  