-- 
IRS Delays Start of Contractor Withholding Rule for One Year

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-05-06T21:19:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/irs-delays-start-of-contractor-withholding-rule-for-one-year-1-.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  is
delaying by one year the start of a rule requiring federal,
state and many local governments to withhold taxes from payments
to contractors.  The IRS said today that the rule, which requires
governments to withhold 3 percent of all contract funds, would
apply to payments made after Dec. 31, 2012. The agency had
planned to implement the rule on Jan. 1, 2012.  Congress created the withholding requirement in 2006 and
the Obama administration in March called for a three-year delay.
Opponents of the measure, which include defense contractors,
construction companies and state governments, said the delay
gives them more time to press Congress to repeal the rule.  “It’s a good thing from the standpoint that it gives us
time for it to be repealed,” said Cornelia Chebinou, the
Washington director of the  National Association of State
Auditors, Comptrollers and Treasurers . “It doesn’t solve the
issues generally.”  Defense contractors including  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  have led the lobbying effort to undo the
withholding requirement. Congress already delayed the start date
for withholding from 2011 as part of the 2009 stimulus law.  Seeking Rule’s Repeal  Roger Jordan, vice president of government relations for
the Arlington, Virginia-based  Professional Services Council , the
nation’s largest trade association for contractors, said he
would have preferred a three-year delay. His group will press
for the regulation’s repeal, he said, maintaining that the rule
will cause contractors to charge more to the government.  “They’re going to want to recoup the cost,” he said.
“The only way they’re going to be able to do that is by
potentially charging higher rates to the government.”  Representative Wally Herger, a California Republican who is
a member of the  Ways and Means Committee , has introduced
legislation that would repeal the rule. The bill has not
advanced, in part because of uncertainty over offsetting its
cost. A 2009 congressional estimate pegged the 10-year cost of
repeal at $10.9 billion.  Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican,
has expressed interest in the issue. He hasn’t scheduled a
hearing on the rule.  Lawmakers established the 3 percent withholding requirement
to reduce tax cheating. The Government Accountability Office
said in 2007 that federal contractors owed more than $3.3
billion in taxes. A March report from the Treasury Inspector
General for Tax Administration said the IRS hasn’t moved quickly
enough to suspend payments to some of its own contractors that
owed taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  