-- 
Mitsui Forecasts Record Profit on Higher Commodity Prices

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 
2011-05-06T09:34:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/mitsui-forecasts-record-profit-on-higher-commodity-prices-1-.html
Mitsui & Co.,  Japan ’s second-largest
trading house, said its profit may rise 17 percent to a record
this financial year because of forecast higher commodity prices.  Net income may be 430 billion yen ($5.34 billion) in the
year ending March 31 2012, the Tokyo-based company said today in
a  statement . Annual profit in the 12 months ended March 31 more
than doubled to 367.9 billion yen, it said today.  Commodities beat stocks, bonds and the dollar for a fifth
straight month in April as demand for raw materials increases.
Demand for  iron ore , led by the world’s biggest consumer  China ,
may help boost earnings in Mitsui’s mineral and metal resources
unit by 22 percent to 37.6 billion yen this year, it said today.  “Strong global demand will continue to be a supporting
factor for the commodity markets,” the company said in a
presentation today. Its forecast includes a 9 billion yen loss
from the impact of the Japan’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Commodities yesterday dropped the most in two years as the
6.5 percent tumble of the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw
materials reflected investor concerns that economic growth may
slow because central banks are seeking to cool inflation by
raising borrowing costs.  The global economy will continue a “moderate trend of
recovery,” Mitsui said today, noting the speed of the recovery
may be unbalanced.  Oil Tumbles  Oil futures tumbled 8.6 percent yesterday in  New York  and
silver headed for its steepest weekly decline since at least
1975 today.  The run-up in commodity prices over the last year, which
accounted for more than half of Mitsui’s increase in net income,
has also made it harder for traders to meet margin requirements
on financing used for the purchases.  Mitsui’s free cash flow plummeted to 20.5 billion yen in
the last fiscal year from 452.3 billion yen a year earlier, the
company said today. Sales rose 14.2 percent to 4.68 trillion yen
in the period.  Separately, Mitsui’s oil exploration unit and Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. have received additional invoices from BP Plc to
help share the clean-up costs of last year’s oil spill in the
 Gulf of Mexico , the Mitsui unit said today in  a statement  on its
website. The total payment obligations sent through by BP were
$2.1 billion as of April 5, Mitsui said.  Mitsui “expects to receive additional invoices from BP,
but it expects to continue to withhold payment given that at the
present time it is uncertain whether there will be an obligation
to pay,” Mitsui said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  