-- 
Liverpool Soccer Club Paid $12.8 Million to Fired Coach Benitez and Staff

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-06T11:57:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/liverpool-soccer-club-paid-12-8-million-to-fired-coach-benitez-and-staff.html
Liverpool, the 18-time English soccer
champion, paid ex-manager  Rafael Benitez  and his staff 7.8
million pounds ($12.8 million) in compensation after firing him
at the end of last season, according to the team’s annual
accounts.  Benitez left after Liverpool finished seventh last season
in the Premier League and failed to qualify for the Champions
League for the first time since 2004. His departure came as
former owners  George Gillett  and  Tom Hicks  were forced by their
lenders to put the club up for sale. Liverpool was bought by the
group that controls the  Boston Red Sox  in October.  Liverpool, which hasn’t won the English championship since
1990, remains one of soccer’s most popular teams with supporter
groups spread around the world. The club’s latest shirt
sponsorship deal with international bank  Standard Chartered  is
worth 80.1 million pounds over four years and is among the
largest in the sport.  The accounts confirm figures released by the team on its
 website  yesterday. It lost 19.9 million pounds for the year
ended July 31, 2010. Much of that was because of the exceptional
costs linked to removing Benitez, the Spanish coach that led the
team to its fifth European Cup in 2005, and higher interest
costs. Interest payments rose to 17.7 million pounds from 12.9
million a year earlier. Total staff costs soared by 20 million
pounds to 108.5 million pounds.  Hicks and Gillett lost control of the team after the forced
sale to Fenway Sports Group, which was then called New England
Sports Ventures. The sale went through after FSG agreed to repay
loans totaling more than 220 million pounds to  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Wachovia Corp.  RBS, a government-controlled lender, has agreed to lend 92
million pounds to the club’s new holding company UKSV for
working capital and stadium development funds, the accounts
show. The team had used 94 percent of the funding by the end of
January. Hicks and Gillett spent about 50 million pounds on
planning and preliminary work at site near the team’s current
Anfield stadium. FSG has said the team may stay there and “it
is highly likely there will a significant right-off of the new
stadium project cost”.  The club is likely to refinance its agreement with RBS “on
acceptable terms.”  Since the end of July Liverpool has committed 76.2 million
pounds to pay for new players and recouped 76.1 million pounds.
The purchase of strikers  Luis Suarez  and Andy Carroll in January
and the capture of midfielder  Raul Meireles  make up the bulk of
the team’s outlay. Sales include the U.K. record 50 million
pound transfer of  Fernando Torres  to Chelsea, Javier Mascherano’s move to Barcelona and sending  Ryan Babel  to
Hoffenheim.  Liverpool fired Benitez’s replacement Roy Hodgson in
January and brought in former title winning coach and player
Kenny Dalglish. He’s lifted the team from its worst start in
more than 50 years to sit in fifth place with three games
remaining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  