-- 
Ivory Coast Restarts Cocoa Shipments From Main Ports of Abidjan, San Pedro

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 
2011-05-06T16:24:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/ivory-coast-restarts-cocoa-shipments-from-main-ports-of-abidjan-san-pedro.html
Ivory Coast  restarted shipments of
 cocoa beans  from its port at Abidjan, 3 1/2 months after
President  Alassane Ouattara  issued a ban to halt exports of the
chocolate ingredient during the country’s political crisis.  The world’s biggest cocoa producer began exports from the
commercial capital’s port yesterday, said Eric Koffi, interim
operations director at the National Coffee and Cocoa Management
Committee.  “We are expecting quite a lot of shipments in the coming
days,” he said by phone today. The western port at  San Pedro 
will begin raw-bean exports tomorrow, and both harbors will
export at least 5,000 metric tons of semi-finished cocoa
products between May 8 and May 12, Koffi said.  Ouattara’s export ban, issued two months after disputed a
November election, was meant to starve his rival,  Laurent Gbagbo , of funds. Gbagbo, who ruled the West African nation for
a decade, refused to cede power and sparked a violent four-month
impasse that ended when he was captured in Abidjan April 11.  Most cocoa exporters heeded Ouattara’s ban and halted their
shipments. About 400,000 tons of cocoa beans, nearly a third of
the country’s annual crop, have been stuck in warehouses at the
two ports since January.  Exporters warned a majority of the stocks have been
affected by humidity, Gnamien Konan, interim Agriculture
Minister, said today. They have been given until June 30 to ship
the beans, according to a statement from the agriculture and
finance ministries.  Konan said the administration is discussing a request by
exporters “to take facilitating measures regarding taxes and
levies,” without providing further details.  Cocoa for June delivery climbed for the first day in five,
adding $23, or 0.7 percent, to $3,078 per ton by 12:09 p.m. on
ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax and Baudelaire Mieu in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 