-- 
Jobs Report Shows Economic Recovery Taking Hold, Goolsbee Says

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-05-06T14:12:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/jobs-report-shows-economic-recovery-taking-hold-goolsbee-says.html
Austan Goolsbee , the White House’s
chief economist, said April’s payroll report shows U.S. job
creation is on the rise even as the economy is being buffeted by
high energy prices and disruptions from the nuclear disaster in
 Japan .  “The overall trajectory of the economy has improved
dramatically over the past two years, but there will surely be
bumps in the road ahead,” Goolsbee, chairman of the  Council of
Economic Advisers , said in a statement on the White House
website.  U.S. payrolls increased by 244,000 workers in April, the
biggest gain since May 2010, the Labor Department said today.
Economists had projected an April rise of 185,000, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The  unemployment
rate  rose to 9 percent, from 8.8 percent in March, the first
increase since November.
　　  Private hiring, which excludes government agencies, rose by
268,000 in April, exceeding the 200,000 median forecast in the
Bloomberg survey of 86 economists. The unemployment rate rose to
9 percent, from 8.8 percent in March, the first increase since
November.  Goolsbee said initiatives undertaken by the administration,
including a temporary payroll tax cut and incentives for
businesses, “are creating the conditions for companies to add
new jobs.”  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican
who is taking part in deficit negotiations with the
administration, said in a statement that while today’s report is
“good news,” it makes the case against higher taxes or more
government regulation.
　　  “It is clear that far too many people remain out of work,
which is why  House Republicans  are squarely focused on making
 Washington  a partner to job creators rather than a barrier by
pursuing pro-growth measures,” Cantor said in the statement.
　　  Concern that higher fuel prices would slow economic
recovery have eased with today’s report. The national average
unleaded gasoline price fell to $3.984 per gallon yesterday,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.
Food costs rose 0.8 percent in March, also the most since July
2008, consumer-price index data from the Labor Department showed
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  