-- 
JPMorgan Plans to Boost Asia Bond Team as China Curbs Bite

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-05-06T07:02:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/jpmorgan-plans-to-boost-asia-bond-team-as-china-curbs-bite.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  plans to boost
debt capital markets staff in the Asia-Pacific region by 30
percent to help Chinese companies sell bonds as measures to curb
inflation make borrowing in China more expensive.  The bulk of new hires will be in  Hong Kong , while others
will join the Beijing operations of the bank’s joint venture
with  First Capital Securities Co. , Murlidhar Maiya, head of debt
capital markets for Asia ex-Japan, said in a phone interview
from Hong Kong. He declined to provide further details on staff
numbers.  “My team covers all 12 countries in non-Japan Asia but 100
percent of the new hires are focused on China, or the greater
 China  market,” said Maiya. “Domestic  interest rates  in China
are shooting up and the government is trying to curb credit. You
talk to any Chinese company and they’re looking at what they can
do offshore.”  China has raised interest rates four times since September
to help curb inflation that reached a 32-month high in March.
Chinese companies may help sales of yuan-denominated bonds in
Hong Kong rise to as much as 150 billion yuan ($23 billion) this
year, according to HSBC Holdings Plc. Sales in dollars, euros or
yen this year from these issuers have increased almost six-fold
to $20.5 billion compared to the same period in 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dim Sum Bonds  JPMorgan is the No. 3 arranger of so-called Dim Sum bond
sales this year after organizing no issues of yuan-denominated
bonds in Hong Kong in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The New York-based company’s share in the so-called
G3-currency bond market involving Chinese issuers is 3 percent,
down from 9 percent the same period last year, the data show.  In addition to China, the bank is focused on bond markets,
including local-currency issuance, in other parts of  Asia  such
as Korea and  India , Maiya said.  “The number of bankers who are familiar with the offshore
Chinese debt capital markets is by definition very small because
until recently, most Chinese companies had no need to look at
dollar financing,” Maiya said.  As well as searching for talent within the region, Maiya
said the bank is also “reaching out to find people in  Europe 
and the U.S. who are familiar with the language and the culture
and who are looking to come back home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  