-- 
JPMorgan Settlement Over Military Families’ Mortgages Approved

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-05-07T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/jpmorgan-s-settlement-of-military-mortgage-suits-wins-approval.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , after admitting
it mishandled mortgages of U.S. service members, won approval of
a $56 million settlement of claims that it overcharged on their
home loans.  U.S. District Judge Margaret B. Seymour in Columbia,  South
Carolina  found that the accord, which provides $27 million in
cash to military personnel overcharged on mortgages as well as
other benefits, was a fair resolution of suits over the problem
loans.  Service members who suffered from the overcharges think the
settlement “is phenomenal,” said Jonathon  Rowles,  a Marine
fighter pilot who sued JPMorgan over the handling of his loan.  “They recognized they made mistakes and they took the
steps to fix them and compensate people for their damages,”
Rowles said in an interview after the hearing. “I’m pleased
with the way it turned out.”  JPMorgan officials acknowledged earlier this year that one
of the bank’s units made errors in handling mortgages covered by
the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. That law was enacted in
1942 to shield deployed military personnel from financial
stress.  Bank officials “regret the mistakes our firm made on
mortgages for members of the military,” Frank Bisignano, a
JPMorgan executive who leads the home lending unit, said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  ‘ Accountable and Responsible’  “We hold ourselves accountable and responsible for these
mistakes, and fixing them is just the beginning of a new way
forward with the military and veteran community,” he added.  The servicemembers law allows soldiers to demand mortgage
 interest rates  be set at 6 percent while on active-duty status.
The law applies to current loans and those taken out by troops
prior to being deployed.  JPMorgan executives discovered the errors after Rowles, who
holds the rank of captain, sued the bank in federal court in
South Carolina last year over the mortgage unit’s handling of
his $255,000 loan.  Under the terms of the settlement, Rowles and an estimated
6,000 other service personnel whose mortgage accounts were
mishandled will split the $27 million according to court
filings. That will provide an average payout of $4,500 per
soldier. Recoveries in the cases will vary based on service
member’s individual damage claims.  The accord also calls for JPMorgan to cut interest rates on
all mortgages held by deployed troops to 4 percent for one year,
the filing shows.  Houses Returned  The lender has agreed to return houses that have been
improperly foreclosed upon and not yet sold and to pay fair
market value for those already auctioned off, according to the
filing. It also will forgive any remaining mortgage debt of
military borrowers who were protected by the law and mistakenly
foreclosed upon.  Finally, the company agreed to pay $8 million in legal fees
for Rowles and other affected military personal who sued over
the mishandled mortgages, according to court filings.  Seymour approved both the settlement and the legal-fee
request after a two-hour hearing yesterday.  “The resolution of this case sends a message that we won’t
let our fighting men and women be distracted from their missions
by unfair financial burdens on the home front,” Richard
Harpooltian, a Columbia, South Carolina-based lawyer for Rowles,
said in an interview.  Justice Department  Probe  The U.S. Justice Department said it has opened an
investigation of lenders’ handling of servicemembers’ mortgages.  Units of  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the sixth-largest  U.S. bank  by
assets, and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are being probed over alleged
violations of the servicemembers law, Justice Department
officials said last month.  A  Michigan  judge found in 2009 that  Saxon Mortgage , the
Morgan Stanley unit, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas
violated the servicemembers law by foreclosing on a U.S. Army
sergeant’s home in Michigan. The case later settled and terms of
the accord weren’t made public.  The South Carolina case is Rowles v. Chase Home Finance
LLC, 10-1756, U.S. District Court, District of South Carolina
(Beaufort).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 