-- 
JPMorgan, HSBC, Barclays, Stanford, Lawson in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-05-06T12:04:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/jpmorgan-hsbc-barclays-stanford-icp-lawson-in-court-news.html
A U.S. judge granted JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s request to decide whether the trustee liquidating Bernard
Madoff’s firm has the right to sue the bank for $6.4 billion,
alleging it aided the confidence man’s fraud.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in  New York  set a
briefing schedule for JPMorgan’s argument that the case should
be dismissed, saying she will write an opinion explaining her
decision, according to a court filing May 4. The bank will ask
her to dismiss the case next month.  McMahon’s decision is the latest challenge to trustee
 Irving Picard , who has filed more than 1,000 suits claiming $100
billion for investors in the Ponzi scheme.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
this week asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan to
dismiss a $9 billion lawsuit against it and so-called feeder
funds, saying Picard isn’t allowed by law to bring such suits on
behalf of Madoff customers.  Taking the HSBC case temporarily, Rakoff agreed with the
U.K. bank that Picard’s lawsuit raised issues beyond the
jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court where Picard filed the
suit. He said he would decide whether Picard can bring common-
law claims such as unjust enrichment and can sue on behalf of
customers, since his job is to liquidate the Madoff firm.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Picard, whose firm has sought $175 million for work since
Madoff’s 2008 arrest, is fighting to keep his cases in
bankruptcy court.  “The issue of JPMC’s misconduct belongs before the
bankruptcy court as the court most versed in the nuances of the
Ponzi scheme and the roles of other, related wrongdoers in that
scheme,” he told Rakoff in the filing in U.S. District Court in
Manhattan. “JPMC seeks refuge in this court to escape the
scrutiny of the bankruptcy court.”  Picard sued JPMorgan in December, claiming the bank, as
Madoff’s main lender, aided the fraud and should pay all of
investors’ losses in specified years. Denying wrongdoing, New
York-based JPMorgan said it had a right to a jury trial in the
district court.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty to orchestrating the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history. He is serving a 150-year sentence in
federal prison in North Carolina.  The case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 1:11-cv-00913,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Altria Should Face Ill Smoker’s Suit, California Court Says  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s  Philip Morris  USA Inc. should face
claims by a smoker who sued the cigarette maker for lung cancer
years after becoming ill, the California Supreme Court said.  Plaintiff Nikki Pooshs smoked from 1953 through 1987 and
was diagnosed with pulmonary disease in 1989 and periodontal
disease in 1990 or 1991. She knew that both illnesses were
caused by smoking and didn’t file a lawsuit until she was
diagnosed with lung cancer in 2003, according to the advisory
opinion. Philip Morris won a lower court ruling that Pooshs
waited too long to file the claims.  The California Supreme Court, based in  San Francisco , ruled
yesterday that the two earlier illnesses were “qualitatively
different” from cancer and didn’t trigger the statute of
limitations for suing for misrepresentation, concealment,
product liability and failure to warn.  The judges ruled after a federal appeals court in San
Francisco considering Pooshs’s case asked for an opinion on the
treatment of statute of limitations under California law.  “Although we are disappointed with the decision, the
California Supreme Court made it clear that it was not
addressing the merits of this case or any case,” Steve
Callahan, an Altria spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The case is Pooshs v. Philip Morris USA Inc., S172023,
California Supreme Court (San Francisco).  BDO USA Settles Suit With Former Client Banco Espirito Santo  BDO USA, the accounting firm formerly known as BDO Seidman
LLP, agreed to settle a lawsuit that accused it of failing to
detect a fraud in a joint venture of former client  Banco
Espirito Santo SA. (BES)   BDO won reversal of a $521.7 million jury verdict in the
case last year when a Florida appeals court ordered a new trial.
The terms of the settlement are confidential, Jerry Walsh, a BDO
spokesman, said.  “BDO USA LLP has entered into confidential settlement
agreements with Banco Espirito Santo and Barry Mukamal, the
bankruptcy trustee of E.S. Bankest LC, pursuant to which the
lawsuits against BDO have been resolved,” Walsh said in an e-
mailed statement.  Banco Espirito Santo, based in Lisbon, sued in 2004
claiming it suffered losses when New York-based BDO certified as
real accounts receivable at E.S. Bankest that were fake.  In 1998, the bank formed E.S. Bankest, which bought
receivables and collected the debt, as a joint venture with
Bankest Capital. E.S. Bankest officials faked millions of
dollars in receivables, and four executives were later convicted
of crimes. Banco Espirito Santo sold its interest in 2002 for
$10 million.  Florida’s Third District Court of Appeal in Miami ruled in
June that a 2007 jury award in the case should be reversed
because a decision to split a trial in three parts possibly
prejudiced jurors.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge A. Jay Cristol in Miami, who is
overseeing E.S. Bankest’s bankruptcy case, ordered the
settlement papers sealed and will hold a private hearing in
chambers about the accord on May 19.  The case is Banco Espirito Santo International Ltd. v. BDO
Seidman LLP, 04-14009-CA-01, 11th Judicial Circuit of Florida
(Miami-Dade County).  Fannie Mae Loses Bid to Dismiss Ex-Contractor’s Lawsuit  Fannie Mae lost its bid to dismiss a lawsuit filed by a
former contractor who alleges she was fired and blocked from a
Treasury Department job after complaining about the company’s
work on a program to modify home loans.  U.S. District Judge Rosemary Collyer in Washington
yesterday ordered Fannie Mae to turn over documents to help
determine whether the government-owned mortgage finance company
was a private employer or a federal entity when Caroline Herron
claims she was improperly fired and “blackballed.”  “The outstanding issue that will govern this case and that
cannot be decided without a fact record is whether Fannie Mae
is, or was at the relevant time period, a ‘private’ actor or a
‘federal’ actor,” Collyer said in her ruling.  Herron sued Fannie Mae and three current and former
executives last year, claiming they ruined her reputation in the
industry because she told Treasury officials that Fannie Mae
wasn’t pursuing loan-modification projects requested by the
department, such as the Making Home Affordable Program. Herron
seeks more than $1.2 million in damages.  Amy Bonitatibus , a spokeswoman for Fannie Mae, declined to
comment.  The case is Herron v. Fannie Mae, 10-cv-00943, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Barclays Must Return $2.1 Billion, Lehman Brokerage Says  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which bought Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
North American business, must return $2.1 billion in margin
assets to the trustee liquidating the remnants of the brokerage,
the trustee said.  Trustee James Giddens raised his demand for margin assets
from $1.8 billion on April 28, as he and Barclays step up their
dispute over about $3.5 billion in assets after a judge’s ruling
failed to specify how much Barclays was entitled to take in
September 2008. He wants interest at 9 percent on the $2.1
billion.  At the same time, Giddens agreed to pay Barclays $869
million in damages plus 9 percent interest for failing to
deliver trading assets after the purchase. The so-called
clearance box assets were held to clear trades.  London-based Barclays is claiming $1.5 billion of the
disputed margin assets, saying it was entitled to take non-cash
margin in the deal. In a court filing May 4, it said the judge
“should clarify” his February order, spelling out the bank’s
right to margin and other assets.  Barclays said it was entitled to $134.8 million owed to
futures exchanges, plus other sums for liabilities it took on
with the purchase.  Michael O’Looney, a Barclays spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The filings by Barclays and the Lehman brokerage come ahead
of a court conference scheduled for next week by U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge James Peck. The judge had directed Barclays and Giddens to
interpret the ruling he made in February granting the London-
based bank some assets and denying it some others, including
cash.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Allen Stanford Indicted Again With 7 of 21 Charges Dropped  R. Allen Stanford, the Texas financier accused by U.S.
prosecutors of leading a $7 billion investor fraud scheme, was
indicted again and accused of seven fewer counts than
previously.  Prosecutors filed a revised charging document May 4 in U.S.
District Court in Houston. Stanford, who has denied all
allegations of wrongdoing, has been in federal custody since
June 2009 awaiting trial.  Stanford is accused of defrauding investors who bought
certificates of deposit issued by his Antigua-based Antigua-
based Stanford International Bank Ltd. by misleading them about
the nature of the investments and their regulatory oversight.  The original indictment contained 21 criminal counts. The
new one contains 14, including conspiracy to commit money
laundering, obstruction of a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission investigation, wire fraud and mail fraud.  Two wire-fraud counts were dropped and five of mail fraud.  “The original indictment was such a mess, I think
prosecutors were just trying to clean up the charges,” Ali
Fazel, one of Stanford’s criminal-defense lawyers, said in a
telephone interview today. “I don’t think anything of relevance
has been dropped right now.”  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  ICP Founder Priore Challenged by SEC Over Home Transfers  ICP Asset Management LLC  founder  Thomas Priore  was accused
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission of illegally
selling two homes into trusts controlled by himself, his wife
and a friend after he was told the agency planned to sue him for
fraud.  The SEC yesterday asked a federal court in New York to let
it amend a complaint filed in June against Priore, ICP and two
related companies to include allegations that Priore
fraudulently transferred the homes, located on Martha’s Vineyard
in Massachusetts and in Chappaqua, New York.  In the original complaint, the SEC claimed Priore and New
York-based ICP fraudulently directed more than $1 billion of
trades at artificially high prices on behalf of collateralized
debt obligations they managed.  After his lawyer was told the agency intended to sue,
Priore sold the Martha’s Vineyard property, for $1, and the
Chappaqua home, for $10, to the trusts “to hinder the
commission’s ability to collect disgorgement, penalties and
prejudgment interest from him,” the SEC said in its proposed
amended complaint.  Dane Butswinkas, a lawyer representing Priore and ICP,
declined to comment. The defendants have denied wrongdoing and
are fighting the suit.  The case is SEC v. ICP Asset Management LLC, 10-CV-4791,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Rajaratnam Jury Hears Replay of Chiesi Wiretaps  Jurors in the Raj Rajaratnam insider-trading case listened
to replays of wiretapped recordings of the Galleon Group LLC co-
founder’s conversations with former trader Danielle Chiesi as
they continued to deliberate.  The jury yesterday asked to hear six recordings played
during the trial in federal court in Manhattan. On one of them,
Chiesi, a former analyst at New Castle Funds LLC who has pleaded
guilty in the case, asked Rajaratnam whether she should “show a
pattern of trading.”  “You should buy and sell, and buy and sell,” Rajaratnam
said, according to a recording that prosecutors say is evidence
that the two tried to hide their illegal trades.  The alleged Rajaratnam-Chiesi conspiracy is the fifth of
five separate insider-trading conspiracies on the list of
charges against Rajaratnam, who is also accused of making nine
specific illegal trades.  “It’s anybody’s guess, but I think they’re close” to
reaching a verdict, said  Anthony Sabino , who teaches law at the
Tobin School of Business at St. John’s University in New York.
He isn’t involved in the case.  Deliberations were restarted May 4, after U.S. District
Judge Richard Holwell replaced a juror who was dismissed for
medical reasons. Some of the Rajaratnam-Kumar recordings were
re-played May 4 for the new juror.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial as part of the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about stocks including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Clearwire Corp.
Rajaratnam, who said he based the trades on research, faces as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted of the most serious
counts.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  JPMorgan Says It Didn’t Discriminate Against Injured Banker  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-largest U.S. bank by
assets, said it didn’t discriminate against a  London  banker who
had his bonus cut and was fired after he reduced his hours
because of a skiing injury.  The bank is seeking to overturn a 2008 ruling that it
discriminated against Russell Chweidan, an executive director
for the bank’s hedge-fund sales credit team, on the grounds of
disability, JPMorgan lawyer Emma Smith said at a hearing
yesterday at the Court of Appeal in London.  Chweidan seriously injured his back while skiing with a
client in March 2007, according to court documents. After the
injury he had to wear a back brace and work fewer hours. In
January 2008 he was given a bonus of $450,000, 44 percent less
than the previous year. Then in July 2008 he was fired. Later
that year, a London employment tribunal ruled he had been
discriminated against.  Smith said yesterday that, while the banker was disabled,
he lost his job after he couldn’t build up his narrow client
base because he couldn’t entertain prospective clients in the
evening.  “The reason why was a lack of a broad client base and the
reason for a lack of a broad client base was his hours,” she
said, adding an employee without a disability who was unable to
expand their client list would be treated exactly the same.  Chweidan’s lawyer, Anna Beale, said the employment tribunal
was right to find he was discriminated against based on
disability. Chweidan was one of the strongest performers in his
team, yet he had “the greatest proportionate drop in bonus,”
she said. The bank may have chosen to pay him less because they
knew he would find it difficult to find another job.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Lawson Sued Over $2 Billion Offer From Golden Gate, Infor  Lawson Software Inc. (LWSN) , a global provider of business
software, was sued by an investor who said he will be
shortchanged in a proposed $2 billion takeover bid from Golden
Gate Capital Corp. and Infor Global Solutions.  Sanjay Israni, a Lawson stockholder, sued the company,
certain executives and the Golden Gate and Infor affiliate that
will be used for the acquisition on May 3 in Delaware Chancery
Court in Wilmington. Israni, who seeks to represent outside
investors as a group in the lawsuit, says the offer undervalues
the company and management failed to negotiate a better deal.  “Rather than permitting the company’s shares to trade
freely and continue to benefit from Lawson’s opportunities for
long-term profitable growth,” the executives acted to benefit
themselves to the “detriment of the company’s shareholders,”
the investor said in the lawsuit.  Terry Blake, a spokesman for Lawson, said in an e-mail that
the company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  The St. Paul, Minnesota-based company announced its
acceptance of the offer that pays stockholders $11.25 a share in
cash, in an April 26 statement.  “At all relevant times, Lawson disclosed all material
information consistent with its duties under Delaware law,” and
“acted in good faith,” Lawson said in response to the
complaint, in court papers filed May 4.  The case is Israni v. Lawson Software Inc., CA6443,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-Arcandor CEO Ordered to Pay Investor Over Thomas Cook Stake  Thomas Middelhoff, the former  Arcandor AG (ARO)  chief executive
officer, was ordered to cover the losses an investor had on
 Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  shares bought in 2008 after Arcandor
denied it was looking to sell its stake.  Middelhoff intentionally damaged investors when he didn’t
prevent a company spokesman from telling the media that Arcandor
would keep shares of the travel company, while management was
secretly weighing selling them, an Essen, Germany, court ruled
yesterday. The suit was brought by Jan-Eric Peters, the editor
in chief of newspaper Die Welt, court spokesman Wolfgang Schmidt
said in an interview.  Arcandor, the former parent of German department-store
chain Karstadt, filed for insolvency in June 2009. Middelhoff’s
home and office were searched in October as part of a probe into
the company’s demise and any related misconduct.  Arcandor said on Sept. 24, 2009, that it had to “clarify”
an earlier statement that it wouldn’t give away part of its
majority stake in Thomas Cook to guarantee loans. The shares
fell 30 percent the next day. After several refinancing efforts
faltered, Arcandor announced that it would sell 23 million new
shares to Bank Sal Oppenheim Jr. & Cie.  Peters claimed he lost more than 50,000 euros ($73,000)
because he bought Arcandor shares relying on the information. He
limited his suit to 5,000 euros to avoid cost risks and was
awarded 2,575 euros yesterday.  Middelhoff’s attorney Hartmut Fromm said he will appeal
yesterday’s ruling. The court improperly declined to call
witnesses who would have backed Middelhoff’s position, Fromm
said in an e-mailed statement.  Yesterday’s case is LG Essen, 4 O 244/09.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  