-- 
JPMorgan Said to Face SEC Subpoena Along With Credit Suisse

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n ,   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-06T12:49:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/jpmorgan-chase-said-to-be-subpoenaed-by-sec-over-mortgage-debt-documents.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  received a
subpoena from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over
failed mortgages, a person familiar with the investigation said,
as the agency probes banks including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  for
allegedly failing to share refunds from sellers of faulty debt.  Credit Suisse received a subpoena from the SEC last week,
bond insurer MBIA Insurance Corp. said in a filing yesterday in
a lawsuit against three of that Zurich-based bank’s units. The
agency asked New York-based JPMorgan for information after a
court in January unsealed allegations made about Bear Stearns
Cos.’ practices in another suit, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  U.S. investigators have been scrutinizing companies
involved in the mortgage business after the worst collapse in
 home prices  since the Great Depression.  Bond insurers MBIA and Ambac Assurance Corp. have said
Credit Suisse and Bear Stearns, which JPMorgan bought in 2008,
demanded refunds from originators that sold the banks the loans
that they packaged into bonds, and then failed to use those
settlement amounts to fulfill their own contractual promises on
the debt.  “We’re really starting to finally get into evidence that
suggests blatant fraud,” said Isaac Gradman, a San Francisco-
based litigation consultant and formerly a lawyer at Howard Rice
Nemerovski Canady Falk & Rabkin.  Seeking Documents  Jennifer R. Zuccarelli, a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to comment. Steven Vames, a Credit Suisse
spokesman in New York, declined to comment on MBIA’s statement
about an SEC investigation.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman,
declined to comment.  Kevin Brown , a spokesman for MBIA, said that Patterson
Belknap Webb & Tyler LLP as counsel for the bond insurer was
also subpoenaed by the SEC, seeking documents related to the
Credit Suisse matter.  U.S. agencies have been seeking evidence of wrongdoing
across the mortgage industry from before the market collapsed in
2007. JPMorgan said in a regulatory filing today it’s in
“advanced discussions” with the SEC to resolve an investigation
into collateralized debt obligations, which package assets such
as mortgage bonds into new securities.  The  Justice Department  sued Deutsche Bank AG this week for
more than $1 billion, saying the firm lied about its process for
checking the quality of loans granted federal insurance.  Charlotte  Stripper  Credit Suisse knowingly packaged bad loans into bonds, MBIA
said in a court filing. The insurer included an exhibit in its
suit composed of e-mails related to a “stated income” loan
sought by a stripper in Charlotte, North Carolina, whose
reported monthly pay of $12,000 was questioned by some bank
employees.  MBIA Insurance Corp., the bond insurance unit of Armonk,
New York-based  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , disclosed Credit Suisse’s SEC subpoena
and the exhibit in  a filing  in New York State  Supreme Court . The
document, dated April 29, was filed yesterday.  “Credit Suisse is now the subject of an investigation by
the Securities and Exchange Commission, which issued a subpoena
this week seeking the same types of documents as MBIA seeks,”
the insurer said.  MBIA alleges in its lawsuit that Credit Suisse failed to
repurchase soured mortgages out of a 2007 securitization as it
was contractually obligated to do. Earlier, the bank made
demands similar to MBIA’s to recover funds from the originators
of the loans -- money it didn’t share with the securities’
buyers, MBIA said.  Ambac Suit  The allegations echo claims made in January in a suit
brought by Ambac Assurance against the defunct investment bank
Bear Stearns and JPMorgan. Ambac first sued in 2008 in federal
court in  Manhattan . The insurer filed a separate lawsuit over
the issues in  New York  State Supreme court in February.  “Ambac is a large, sophisticated insurance company that is
trying to blame others for risks it knowingly took and was paid
for taking,” Zuccarelli said earlier this year. “We do not
believe Ambac’s claims are meritorious and intend to defend Bear
vigorously.”  Credit Suisse, in a filing in MBIA’s case on April 29, said
contracts for its mortgage-bond transaction didn’t call for the
bank to repurchase loans simply because they became delinquent
within a few months or involved borrower fraud. That differed
from contracts between mortgage originators and Credit Suisse,
the bank said.  Originators’ Commitments  Credit Suisse cited e-mails between its employees and MBIA
officials before the deal closed, which the bank argued had
stated explicitly that those so-called representations and
warranties wouldn’t be made. Representations and warranties are
contractual promises that loans meet certain characteristics or
will perform in certain ways.  The loan originators’ commitments to Credit Suisse “are
different from -- and materially broader than -- Credit Suisse’s
representations and warranties” tied to the securitization
transaction, the bank said in court filings.  “MBIA is entitled to what its contracts with CS provide,
and not more,” Vames, the Credit Suisse spokesman, said
yesterday in an e-mail.  MBIA said in yesterday’s court filing that Credit Suisse in
some cases cited the same issues as it later did to reach
settlements with lenders, and that any early loan defaults
should have been seen as “red flags” for further reviews of
its obligations.  Early Defaults  A review by Credit Suisse in 2006 showed that 60 percent of
loans with early defaults failed to meet promised underwriting
guidelines, MBIA said, citing an e-mail between the banks’
employees.  External auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP advised Bear
Stearns in August 2006 that it needed to review loans that were
defaulting or defective to see if their quality breached its
obligations and begin the “immediate processing of the buy-out
if there is a clear breach in order to match common industry
practices, the expectation of investors and to comply” with its
mortgage bonds’ contracts, according to Ambac’s filing.  Its own lawyers by early 2007 were making similar
suggestions, according to the insurer’s amended complaint.  MBIA is seeking access to a database that contains
information about Credit Suisse’s “quality control and
repurchase processes” and shows how much the bank recovered
from loan originators, according to its suit. Before MBIA found
references to the database through the lawsuit, Credit Suisse
denied its existence, the insurer said.  ‘Previously Securitized’  The insurer’s filing said that it has also discovered “in
the last few weeks” that the securitization at issue in the
case, HEMT 2007-2, included home loans that “were previously
securitized by Credit Suisse and then repurchased by Credit
Suisse as defective, just months before Credit Suisse pumped
them” into the deal.  “MBIA is unable to determine what Credit Suisse knew about
the defects associated with these recycled loans that required
their repurchase from other securitizations,” the insurer said.  MBIA filed hundreds of pages of records and e-mails between
Credit Suisse employees, loan originators and brokers that the
insurer says show the bank knew of -- and received recoveries on
-- loans on which borrowers misrepresented income or otherwise
failed to comply with underwriting guidelines.  “They show Credit Suisse’s motivation and scienter for
fraudulently inducing MBIA to participate in” the bond deal,
the insurer said in court filings. The bank did so, “in part,
to obtain double-recoveries on the defective loans by shoveling
them into the trust, profiting from their securitization, and
then recovering again when it demanded that the originators of
those loans repurchase them, even though Credit Suisse no longer
owned the loans.”  Adult Entertainer  In the e-mails involving the  North Carolina  stripper’s loan
application, Credit Suisse employees questioned whether her
income was accurately reported.  “We have an adult entertainer that is stating $142,800 per
year,” Ron Szukala, a Credit Suisse underwriting manager in
 Florida  wrote in a January 2007 e-mail to another bank employee.
“While I know this profession can make decent money, we feel
that $142K is overstated in NC.”  “I don’t believe she is making $12K per month,” Robert
Sacco, a director at the bank, wrote in a separate e-mail,
saying that of all the so-called Alt-A loans the bank bought in
2006, 1 percent of those with fully documented incomes had gone
delinquent for 60 days or more, compared with 5.56 percent for
loans with stated incomes. “5 1/2 times worse because they are
overstating their income on their application,” Sacco wrote.  One case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Credit Suisse
Securities (USA) LLC, 603751/2009, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan). Another is Ambac Assurance Corp. v EMC Mortgage
Corp., 650421/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).
Another is Ambac v. EMC Mortgage, 08-cv-9464, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  