-- 
JPMorgan Chase Is in ‘Advanced’ Negotiations to Resolve SEC Probe of CDOs

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-05-06T14:54:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/jpmorgan-chase-is-in-advanced-negotiations-to-resolve-sec-probe-of-cdos.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the only Wall
Street bank to remain profitable throughout the financial
crisis, is in “advanced” negotiations to resolve its piece of
a broader U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigation
into how mortgage-linked securities were packaged and sold as
the housing market unraveled.  JPMorgan’s securities unit has been cooperating with agency
officials and “is currently in advanced discussions with the
staff concerning a potential resolution of that investigation,”
the New York-based bank said in a quarterly financial report
filed with the SEC today.  The SEC is working to wrap up investigations into how banks
bundled and sold investments tied to risky mortgages, after
years of being faulted by lawmakers and investors for failing to
hold  Wall Street  accountable for misconduct that may have fueled
the financial crisis. JPMorgan has been probed by the SEC for
its role in designing and selling a $1.1 billion collateralized
debt obligation known as “Squared” in 2007, according to a
person briefed on the matter.  “There can be no assurance that any such resolution will
be finalized or approved,” JPMorgan said in today’s filing. The
bank didn’t specify which CDOs were the subject of the SEC
talks.  Credit Suisse  JPMorgan, the second-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, also
received a subpoena from the SEC over failed mortgages as part
of a separate investigation into whether some banks, including
Credit Suisse Group AG, failed to share refunds from sellers of
faulty debt, a person familiar with the investigation said.  The agency has targeted firms at various stages of the
loan-packaging process, ranging from originators such as
Countrywide Financial Corp. to underwriters including  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , which agreed last month to pay $11 million to
settle SEC claims that it sold risky CDOs at unfair prices.  The CDO investigation gathered momentum last year when
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to pay a record $550 million and
admitted to making a “mistake” in its disclosures about a
subprime-linked CDO. The probe has included Wall Street CDO
underwriters including Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG,
and Morgan Stanley, a person familiar with the matter said.  Magnetar Capital  As part of the SEC’s investigation of JPMorgan, the SEC is
looking into whether the bank misled investors about hedge-fund
Magnetar Capital LLC’s possible role in selecting underlying
assets in the Squared deal, the person said, speaking last month
on condition of anonymity because the matter isn’t public.  Michael Llodra , formerly JPMorgan’s global head of
structured product collateralized debt obligations, received a
Wells notice from the SEC on Jan. 4 saying investigators planned
to pursue civil claims against him related to the sale of a 2007
product, according to Llodra’s broker registration filings. The
SEC also gave a Wells notice on Jan. 14 to Edward Steffelin, a
former executive at a firm that helped manage Squared, his
brokerage records show.  Squared was sold in April 2007, with GSC Group serving as
the CDO’s manager and JPMorgan underwriting the deal, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its collateral consisted partly
of other CDOs tied to bonds backed by assets such as mortgages,
with the initial holdings including credit-default swaps
referencing $968 million of those CDOs, according to an offering
document. CDOs backed by other CDOs were referred to as “CDOs
squared.” Squared went into default the following January.  JPMorgan spokesman  Joe Evangelisti  declined to comment
about that probe last month, as did Llodra and Steffelin.  Housing Bet  Magnetar said it bought the junior slice of the Squared CDO
as part of a strategy of investing in mortgage-linked securities
while betting against other housing debt, sometimes including
bonds from the same deals. CDOs package assets such as mortgage
bonds and buyout loans into new securities with varying risks.  The hedge-fund firm told investors in an April 2010 letter
that it didn’t help banks create CDOs that were “built to
fail” on a bet that homeowners with bad credit would default on
their loans. The firm offered limited input on the creation of
CDOs, and its bets were part of a “market neutral” portfolio
designed to profit no matter what happened, Magnetar said.  Magnetar was started in late 2005 by Alec Litowitz, who
previously worked at  Ken Griffin ’s Citadel Investment Group LLC.
He specialized in trading the stocks of merging companies.  GSC Bankruptcy  GSC, based in  Florham Park ,  New Jersey , filed for
bankruptcy last year, blaming losses caused by the credit crisis
and an “extremely unfavorable global business environment.”
The investment firm, founded by former Goldman Sachs partner
Alfred Eckert III, managed $28 billion at its peak, according to
court papers.  GSC, which entered into the business of managing CDOs tied
to asset-backed securities in 2006, ran $8.1 billion of them by
the time the market collapsed the next year, according to a
 Standard & Poor’s  report at the time. The company ranked as the
No. 17 manager of such CDOs, S&P said.  Black Diamond Capital Management LLC won a bankruptcy
auction for GSC’s assets.  A U.S. Senate panel said last month that Deutsche Bank,
 Germany ’s biggest bank, pressed to sell a $1.1 billion
collateralized debt obligation to clients in 2007 as the co-head
of its CDO team foresaw a market slump. The Frankfurt-based firm
sold $700 million of the instruments, which lost most of their
value within 17 months.  “There were divergent views within the bank about the U.S.
housing market,” Michele Allison, a spokeswoman for Deutsche
Bank, said in an e-mailed statement last month. “Moreover, the
bank’s views were fully communicated to the market through
research reports, industry events, trading-desk commentary and
press coverage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  