-- 
JPMorgan Joins Bank of America in Perfect Record for First-Quarter Trading

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-05-06T14:49:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/jpmorgan-joins-bank-of-america-in-perfect-record-for-first-quarter-trading.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-
largest U.S. bank by assets, joined  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in
reporting a perfect trading period in the first quarter.  JPMorgan’s revenue linked to market risk was higher than
$160 million on seven of the period’s 64 trading days, the New
York-based lender said today in a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The average daily revenue
was $112 million, according to the filing.  The firm, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 55, had $6.64 billion in sales and trading revenue in the
first quarter, second only to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  among the
biggest U.S. banks. JPMorgan posted perfect trading periods in
three of four quarters last year.  Markets were affected during the first quarter by  Japan ’s
worst earthquake on record and a resulting tsunami and nuclear
crisis, which triggered the biggest three-day climb in the
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index since May 2010
and an 18 percent drop in the Nikkei 225 Index.  Last year, the bank had eight days of trading losses, a
feat that Jes Staley, 54, CEO of the investment bank, said in
February he didn’t expect to repeat. Including other market-
related risks, the bank had 13 days of losses in 2010, according
to its annual report.  JPMorgan’s figures may not be directly comparable with
other banks’ because they also include market risk besides
trading, such as principal transactions in its chief investment
office and some mortgage fees and hedges.  Bank of America’s trading-related revenue was positive
every day and exceeded $25 million on 98 percent of days during
the year’s first three months, according to a filing yesterday
by the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm. In 2010, it had
gains on 90 percent of trading days, with perfect records in
that year’s first and third quarters, according to previous
filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  