-- 
Gavea Starts $2 Billion Private-Equity Fund to Tap Brazil Consumer Growth

-- B y   A d r i a n a   C h i a r i n i   a n d   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a
-- 
2011-05-06T13:52:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/jpmorgan-s-gavea-starts-2-billion-private-equity-fund-on-consumer-growth.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Gavea
Investimentos Ltda., the investment company founded by former
 Brazil  central banker Arminio Fraga, is setting up a $2 billion
fund to buy stakes in Brazilian companies.  Gavea, which manages $2.5 billion in three private-equity
funds, will return proceeds from two of them to investors this
year as it starts the new one as early as this month, Gavea
partner Amaury Bier said in an interview at his office in Rio de
Janeiro yesterday. Consumer goods are among the industries Gavea
identified as the best opportunities for stake purchases, though
its funds don’t focus on specific sectors, he said.  “The consumer story in Brazil” is being boosted by income
growth, said Bier, a former deputy finance minister who runs
Gavea with Fraga. “This is very powerful and will continue.”  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Carlyle Group and KKR & Co. are among
global firms buying stakes in Brazilian businesses to tap family
consumption that jumped 7.5 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier. Private-equity funds have as much as $8 billion
ready to buy stakes in the country, Piero Minardi, a partner at
Gavea, said at the Bloomberg Brazil Economic Forum in  Sao Paulo 
on March 30.  Raia SA (RAIA3) , the Brazilian drugstore chain that raised 655
million reais ($404 million) in an initial public offering last
year, is among family-owned consumer goods businesses that Gavea
invested in and helped sell shares. It has gained 5.4 percent in
Sao Paulo trading since the IPO in December.  Highbridge Capital  JPMorgan’s Highbridge Capital Management agreed to buy 55
percent of Gavea last year and may acquire a further 45 percent
within five years. The sale to JPMorgan gives Gavea access to a
“fantastic distribution network outside Brazil” while helping
the New York-based bank increase its presence in the country as
other global securities firms build up their local teams, Bier
said.  UBS AG’s Brazil unit plans to more than double its
workforce as it seeks to reach 5 billion Swiss francs ($5.7
billion) of private-banking assets under management in five
years, country manager Lywal Salles said in an interview last
week.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  and  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , Brazil’s
two largest banks by market value, and  Spain ’s Banco Santander
SA have also set up private-equity funds in Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Chiarini in Rio De Janeiro at 
 achiarini4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  