-- 
Kan Orders Chubu Electric to Shut All Reactors at Hamaoka Nuclear Plant

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-05-06T11:33:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/kan-orders-chubu-to-shut-all-reactors-at-hamaoka-to-improve-quake-safety.html
Japan  recommended closing a nuclear
power station that was undamaged by the March earthquake and
tsunami, boosting precautions to address safety concerns in a
step that risks worsening the nation’s power shortages.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has asked Chubu Electric Power
Co., the country’s third-biggest utility, to shut all reactors
at its Hamaoka plant southwest of Tokyo. The government has
estimated there is an 87 percent chance of an 8-magnitude
earthquake in the area near the plant within the next 30 years,
he said at an evening press conference today.  “Operations at the reactors should be suspended until
measures are taken over the medium term, such as building a
coastal levee to endure such a quake,” Kan said. The government
will take steps to ensure Japan has sufficient electricity
supplies, he said.  The call to shut reactors is the government’s first since
the March 11 disaster crippled  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in northeastern Japan, triggering the
world’s worst nuclear accident in 25 years. Power shortages have
been forecast for Tokyo and nearby prefectures in the summer
season and companies have been urged to curb usage by as much as
a quarter to help conserve supplies.  “It could well lead to further difficulties for businesses
across the country,” said David Rea, Japan economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London . “The greater the impact on nuclear,
the more base generation will need to rely on fossil fuels. That
will be costly as Japan will need to import more.”  A person who answered the phone at Chubu Electric’s press
office declined to comment and didn’t identify himself. Trade
Minister  Banri Kaieda  said closing the Hamaoka facility won’t
lead to rolling blackouts.  Two Reactors Running  Two reactors at the Hamaoka plant remained running after
the March temblor, Japan’s strongest on record. A third reactor
has been shut since November for maintenance, while two others
are in the process of being scrapped.  Chubu Electric said last month it may start the No. 3
reactor by the end of June. The Hamaoka plant, 189 kilometers
(117 miles) southwest of Tokyo, lies off the coast of Suruga Bay
that Japan monitors extensively for heightened seismic activity.  In 2007, Chubu Electric won a court ruling allowing the
utility to continue operating the plant. The Shizuoka District
Court rejected the plaintiff’s claim that the utility had
underestimated the size of earthquakes that could hit the plant
and the potential for serious damage to its aging reactors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  