-- 
Khalid Al-Fawwaz, Alleged Al-Qaeda Associate, Denied U.S. Lawyer by Judge

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-07T01:07:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/khalid-al-fawwaz-alleged-al-qaeda-associate-asks-judge-for-u-s-lawyer.html
An alleged member of al-Qaeda indicted
in the 1998 bombings of two U.S. embassies in East Africa lost a
bid to have a U.S. lawyer appointed to defend him as he
continues to fight extradition from the U.K.  Khalid al-Fawwaz, who has spent more than a decade fighting
prosecutors seeking to transfer him, expects he will soon be
brought to the U.S. to stand trial, lawyer David Kirby, of
Burlington,  Vermont , wrote in an April 30 letter to the
 Manhattan  federal judge presiding over the case. Kirby said he’s
been working with al-Fawwaz’s U.K. lawyers.  “He anticipates extradition from the  United Kingdom  to the
 United States  within the next few months to face these
charges,” Kirby said. “He asks that this court appoint the
undersigned for the reasons discussed in this letter.”  Judge Lewis Kaplan today denied the request, writing on the
letter, “Denied without prejudice to renewal upon the
defendant’s arrival in this district.”  Al-Fawwaz’s lawyers have taken his case to the  European
Court  of Human Rights to challenge the conditions of confinement
he may face in the U.S., Kirby said in a phone interview.  “I think he’s exhausted all of his avenues of appeal and
now it’s going” to the court of human rights, Kirby said.
“He’s been in custody on the extradition since 1998 and charges
have been pending since then.”  In 2009, a British court rejected Al-Fawwaz’s argument that
being confined to U.S. “supermax” prisons would be “inhuman
or degrading treatment.”  The near-simultaneous bombings of the U.S. embassies in
Nairobi,  Kenya , and  Dar es Salaam , Tanzania, on Aug. 7, 1998,
killed 224 people, including 12 U.S. citizens. More than 4,500
people were injured.  British Contact  The U.S. accuses Al-Fawwaz, who was based in London, of
being Osama bin Laden’s British contact. He allegedly handled
communications for al-Qaeda and obtained a satellite phone for
bin Laden in New York that the terror group leader used to
communicate with his followers used before the 1998 attacks,
U.S. prosecutors say.  Al-Fawwaz was indicted on four counts, including conspiracy
to kill U.S. nationals and a murder conspiracy charge, according
to prosecutors in Manhattan.  The U.S. said al-Fawwaz worked with bin Laden in 1994 and
established a media information office in  London  where he
publicized bin Laden’s statements, helped recruit the group’s
military trainees and provided assistance, including disbursing
funds and equipment.  “Over the course of the past 12 years, Mr. al-Fawwaz has
been engaged in a request for political asylum in the United
Kingdom, based upon his fear of persecution in his native
country of  Saudi Arabia  as a result of his high profile
opposition to the Saudi government,” Kirby said in the letter.  Current Events  “In light of the current events in that area of the
world, we can surmise his views were and are shared by many,
but, nonetheless, unpopular with the Saudi government,” Kirby
wrote in the letter.  Al-Fawwaz’s co-defendant in the embassy-bombing case, Ahmed Ghailani, was the first detainee held at the U.S. naval base at
Guantanamo Bay in Cuba to be tried in a U.S. civilian court. He
was convicted in November of one count and cleared of 284 other
charges. He was sentenced by Kaplan in January to life in
prison.  Four other co-defendants were convicted of all charges,
including joining an al-Qaeda conspiracy to kill U.S. nationals
and all 224 counts of murder after a 2001 trial in federal court
in  New York .  A fifth man, Mamdou Mahmud Salim, a Sudanese-born Iraqi,
who pleaded guilty to stabbing a federal jail guard while
awaiting trial in New York for the global terrorist plot, was
re-sentenced in August to a life prison term.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  