-- 
Klarman’s Baupost to Set Up in London to Cash In on European Debt Crisis

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-05-06T16:01:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/klarman-s-baupost-hedge-fund-to-open-its-first-overseas-office-in-london.html
Baupost Group LLC, a $24 billion
Boston-based hedge fund run by Seth Klarman, will open its first
overseas office in  London  this year as the sovereign deficit
crisis prompts a wave of distressed debt sales, two people with
knowledge of the plans said.  Jim Mooney, a managing director at Baupost, will oversee
the operation to tap investments mainly in commercial real
estate, structured products, corporate and debt that trades at
distressed levels, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the move hasn’t been made public.  U.S. investors are pushing into Europe amid a deepening
sovereign deficit crisis and forced asset sales by the region’s
lenders that may total 1.3 trillion euros ($1.9 trillion) over
the next decade, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  “There are enough opportunities for distressed debt funds
to play with in  Europe , they won’t be sitting on idle cash,”
said Steven Mitra, a London-based partner at investment firm LNG
Capital LLP. “It’s a good time to start buying real estate in
peripheral cities or peripheral countries in Europe.”  Spain ’s DinoSol Supermercados was taken over by creditors
last month as cash-strapped consumers cut spending amid
government austerity measures. Bank of Ireland Plc began selling
most of its 3 billion euros of project finance loans on April 4
to boost reserves after stress tests found provisions short at
the country’s largest bank. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. hired
Mubashir Mukadam in March to head European distressed debt.  Build-Up  Baupost plans to build up the team in London with several
external hires to work with Mooney, the person said. It had
carried out investments in Europe from the U.S. A spokesman at
Baupost, who didn’t want to be identified, declined to comment.  Distressed debt investors profit when a company is forced
to restructure and they recover more than the amount implied by
loan prices by taking the company’s assets or shares. Loans
considered distressed typically trade below 70 percent of face
value.  Hedge funds  dedicated to buying distressed debt in Europe
have earned 5.5 percent this year following a return of 8.7
percent for the full year of 2010, according to Singapore-based
data provider Eurekahedge Pte. By comparison, European high-
yield bonds have returned 6.4 percent this year and U.S. junk
bonds 5.7 percent.  Klarman has doubled his fund’s assets in the past three
years by taking positions in companies shunned by other
investors such as Ford Motor Credit Co. bonds during the
financial crisis. The fund returned about 19 percent a year from
1983 through 2009, and almost 14 percent in 2010, data provided
by Baupost show.  Increasing Opportunities  Investment in commercial property may rise by 25 percent
worldwide this year, after returning confidence produced the
most deals in the fourth quarter since 2007, Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc., the world’s second-largest commercial real estate
brokerage, said in January.  “There are an increasing number of opportunities in Europe
for investors like Baupost to invest in direct commercial real
estate through joint ventures with existing owners who need to
deleverage and restructure existing investments,” said Nassar
Hussain, who founded London-based Brookland Partners LLP in
2009, a boutique real estate investment banking firm.  LaSalle’s property fund unit raised about 560 million euros
from investors to buy properties in Europe. Blackstone Group LP,
the world’s largest private-equity firm, last month agreed to
buy a west London business park from Schroders Plc for 480
million pounds ($789 million).  “As your assets under management grows you need to cast a
wider net, looking for new markets and new products,” said
Craig Abouchar, a  money manager  at Castle Hill Asset Management
in London, which oversees about $2 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  