-- 
Korea Electric Rises Most in Two Years on Report of Possible Tariff Rise

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 
2011-05-06T08:33:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/korea-electric-rises-most-in-two-years-on-report-of-possible-tariff-rise.html
Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP)  advanced
the most in two years in Seoul trading after Yonhap News
reported the government may raise power prices in July.  The supplier of almost all of South Korea’s power jumped
7.5 percent to close at 29,400 won, the biggest gain since March
11, 2009. The stock was the best performer on the  MSCI AC Asia
Pacific (MXAP)  Index. The benchmark Kospi Index fell 1.5 percent.  The government is considering allowing the state-run
utility to adjust tariffs to better reflect global  oil prices ,
Yonhap News reported yesterday, citing Knowledge Economy
Minister Choi Joong Kyung. The ministry said it will begin the
new pricing system in July.  The utility posted a 61.4 billion-won loss last year, a
third consecutive loss, as the government controlled power
prices to curb inflation. Korea Electric Power’s fuel expenses
rose 19 percent in first quarter from a year earlier as natural
gas imports costs jumped, according to Eugene Investment &
Securities Co.  “Under the new pricing system, Korea Electric Power may be
able to swing to a net profit this year,” Kim Seung Churl, an
analyst at Meritz Securities Co., said by phone today. Still,
the company needs at least a 10 percent price increase for
“proper” capital expenditure investment, Kim said.  South Korea ’s inflation slowed in April from the fastest
pace in 29 months. President  Lee Myung Bak  declared “war” on
inflation in January, urging policy makers to contain inflation
at 3 percent to protect families on low incomes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net 
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 