-- 
KT’s Profit Rises 85% on Smartphone Sales, Web TV Demand

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-05-06T02:44:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/kt-s-first-quarter-profit-rises-85-on-smartphone-sales-earnings-at-unit.html
KT Corp. (030200) , South Korea’s largest phone
and Internet company, posted an 85 percent jump in first-quarter
profit, fueled by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone-led smartphone sales and
demand for Web-connected television services.  Consolidated net income rose to 555.2 billion won ($511
million), from a revised 300.6 billion won a year earlier, the
Seongnam, South Korea-based company said in a statement today.
The results were based on the International Financial Reporting
Standards, adopted this year.  Wireless data sales gained 39.5 percent from a year earlier
as users of Internet-connected mobile devices increased, while
sales of Web TV services that allow viewers to stream programs
surged 83.1 percent, KT said. The company is facing challenges
arising from government regulations and surging data traffic
that may strain its networks, according to analyst Yang Jong In.  “They seem to have controlled costs pretty well,” said
Seoul-based Yang of Korea Investment & Securities Co. “On top
of competition, important issues now are government policy and
how they will use their networks effectively.”  KT rose 2 percent to 40,300 as of 10:13 a.m. in  Seoul 
trading, while the benchmark Kospi declined 1.4 percent.  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, increased 62 percent to 726.3 billion
won, the company said. Sales rose 6 percent to 5.3 trillion won.  IPhone  Earnings at the KT Skylife Co. unit, a provider of digital
satellite broadcasting services that became a KT affiliate in
April last year, contributed to the surge in profit under the
new consolidated reporting standard, KT said. More costs related
to  capital spending  were allocated to the 2010 first quarter
under the new method, reducing the year-earlier net income,
according to the company.  KT had 3.83 million smartphone subscribers at the end of
March, surging more than five-fold from a year earlier, the
company said. KT still trails SK Telecom Co., which had 5.35
million smartphone customers at the end of the first quarter and
reported a 57 percent jump in profit for that three-month period.  Smartphone sales in  South Korea  surpassed 10 million units
as of the end of March, soaring from 800,000 units at the end of
2009, Ahn Jae Min, an analyst at Kiwoom Securities Co. in Seoul,
wrote in an April 20 report.  The iPhone’s contribution to KT may decrease as SK began to
offer the device in March, ending KT’s exclusive contract to
sell the product in South Korea.  “If the iPhone 5 comes out, at least half the buyers will
go to SK, or more than 60 percent if you look at their market
shares,” Ahn said before today’s announcement.  Regulations  Earnings may also be damped by the government’s push to cut
phone bills as part of efforts to curb inflation. The country’s
telecommunications regulator is considering making mobile-phone
 text messages  free of charge, Choi See Joong, chairman of the
watchdog, told lawmakers on April 13.  Such a measure is negative for mobile-phone carriers,
Kiwoom’s Ahn said in the April 20 report. The regulator’s plan
probably won’t happen, as revenue from text messages accounts
for as much as 4 percent of phone carriers’ sales, Ahn said.  A more realistic option for the government is to mandate
phone companies to lower subscription fees and offer more free
calls, he said.  KT is looking overseas for investment opportunities, with a
focus on emerging markets such as central America and  Africa ,
after agreeing to sell its 80 percent stake in Russian carrier
New Telephone Co. Inc., the company said today.  KT agreed to sell New Telephone to  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  for $346
million after buying the then unprofitable Russian company for
$22 million in 1997, the South Korean company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  