-- 
Nabucco Pushes Back Potential Construction Start to 2013

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-05-06T09:50:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/nabucco-pushes-back-potential-construction-start-of-gas-pipeline-to-2013.html
Nabucco Gas Pipeline International
GmbH said it pushed back the start of construction of its 7.9
billion euro ($11.5 billion) link to carry Caspian natural gas
to  Europe  to 2013 and start of operations to 2017.  “The timeline has changed as a direct result of the
changes in the timing for gas supplies in the Caspian and Middle
East regions, as announced by potential suppliers,” Nabucco
said today on its  website .  The pipeline, a joint venture of  Germany ’s  RWE AG (RWE) , Vienna-
based  OMV AG (OMV) , Budapest-based Mol Nyrt., Bulgargaz EAD, Romania’s
Transgaz SA and Ankara-based Boru Hatlari ile Petrol Tasima AS,
is designed to carry gas more than 3,900 kilometers (2,400
miles) from Turkey to Austria to reduce European dependence on
Russia. The venture previously said it would start construction
in 2012 and operations in 2015, after moving the timeline
several times.  “From today’s point of view I don’t see further delays,”
Nabucco Managing Director Reinhard Mitschek told journalists
today on a conference call from Vienna. He said “it remains to
be seen” when the final  investment decision , which was
scheduled for this year, would be made.  Nabucco is open to new partners if there is “added value”
and any negotiations would be between the existing partners and
a potential new one, Mitschek said, adding that he was not aware
of any “concrete discussions” with State Oil Co. of
 Azerbaijan , or Socar.  Mitschek also said a report yesterday that the pipeline’s
cost had risen to as much as 15 billion euros was
“speculation” and that the link’s extension by about 25
percent because of feeder lines won’t necessarily boost the
project’s price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 