-- 
Natural Gas Futures Advance in New York as Nuclear Power Output Declines

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-05-06T15:52:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/natural-gas-futures-advance-in-new-york-as-nuclear-power-output-declines.html
Natural gas futures climbed for the
first time in five days in New York as nuclear power production
slid, boosting the demand for gas from power plants.  Gas futures gained as much as 2 percent after the  Nuclear
Regulatory Commission  said atomic output fell 0.6 percent as
operators slowed a reactor in Illinois and shut a unit in
Florida. Prices for the fuel tumbled the most in 19 months
yesterday, following declines in commodity markets, on concern
that economic growth will slow.  “Something like a nuclear outage that’s suddenly driving
up gas demand for power generation would definitely give the
market a boost,” said Peter Beutel, president of energy
advisory company Cameron Hanover Inc. in New Canaan,
Connecticut. “Natural gas sold off very dramatically yesterday
and was tarred with the same brush that painted all the other
commodities.”  Natural gas for June delivery rose 2.5 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $4.286 per million British thermal units at 11:47
a.m. on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. The futures are
heading for the biggest weekly drop since Feb. 11.  Prices are trading above the 50-, 100- and 200-day moving
averages. The next resistance level is $4.405, Brian LaRose, a
technical analyst at United-ICAP in Jersey City,  New Jersey ,
said in a note to clients today.  Contracts can approach or trade at resistance levels for a
certain period of time without exceeding it.  Power generation nationwide decreased 394 megawatts from
yesterday to 70,057 megawatts, or 69 percent of capacity,
according to an NRC report today and data compiled by Bloomberg.
Thirty of the nation’s 104 reactors were offline.  Nuclear Plants  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  decreased output from the 1,120-megawatt
LaSalle Unit 2 in  Illinois  to 60 percent of capacity from full
power yesterday.  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE)  shut the 693-megawatt
Turkey Point 4 reactor, which was operating at 2 percent of
capacity yesterday.  Above-normal temperatures are likely in the central and
southern U.S. through May 10, according to MDA EarthSat Weather
in Rockville, Maryland. The warmer-than-normal weather may boost
air conditioning use, increasing the demand for gas in power
plants.  The high temperature in Houston on May 10 may be 90 degrees
Fahrenheit (32 Celsius), 6 degrees above normal, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in State College, Pennsylvania.  Cooling demand in the U.S. may be 41 percent above normal
on May 10, said  David Salmon , a meteorologist with Weather
Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  Power plants  use 30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies,
according to the Energy Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  