-- 
Natural Gas May Drop on Nuclear Plant Start-Ups, Survey Shows

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-05-06T11:22:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/natural-gas-may-drop-on-nuclear-plant-start-ups-survey-shows.html
Natural gas futures may decline on
reduced demand for the fuel as nuclear  power plants  restart
after shutting for maintenance and refueling, a Bloomberg News
survey showed.  Ten of 17 analysts, or 59 percent, forecast that gas
futures will fall on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through
May 13. Four, or 24 percent, said futures will stay the same and
three predicted that prices will rise. Last week, 47 percent of
participants said gas prices would advance.  U.S. nuclear-power production was 69 percent of capacity
yesterday, according to the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  and
data compiled by Bloomberg. The atomic shutdowns have boosted
gas demand for electricity generation, reducing injections into
underground gas storage, said Brian Swan, an analyst with Summit
Energy in Louisville,  Kentucky .  “We’ve seen a couple of weeks of small storage injections
as gas fills the gap for nuclear power, but we’ve going to see
that flip-flop,” Swan said. “We had been gearing up for a
downturn.”  Natural gas for June delivery dropped 43.7 cents, or 9.3
percent, to $4.261 per million British thermal units in the
first four days of trading this week on the New York exchange.  Nuclear output neared a 12-year low on May 2 as reactors
shut in  New Jersey ,  Minnesota  and  California . Gas inventories
increased 72 billion cubic feet last week, compared with
analysts’ predictions of 67 billion, the Energy Department said
in a report yesterday.  Futures may also slip after failing to rise to $5, a level
prices haven’t reached since August 2010, Swan said. Price gains
were slowing even as futures hit a 13-week high this week,
suggesting a drop was imminent, he said.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 48 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  3      10         4  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 Cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  