-- 
New Jersey Supreme Court Won’t Hear Carl Lewis State Senate Election Case

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-06T20:31:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/new-jersey-supreme-court-won-t-hear-carl-lewis-state-senate-election-case.html
The  New Jersey  Supreme Court won’t
hear Olympic gold medalist Carl Lewis’s bid to get his name on
the ballot for a state senate election in which officials said
he’s not eligible to run.  The court’s one-page order denying Lewis’s request to
review his constitutional claims follows a federal appeals court
ruling temporarily allowing his name on the ballot for the June
7 primary election. The case now hinges on U.S. District Court
Judge Noel Hillman, who must decide the constitutionality of the
state’s residency provision as it was applied to Lewis.  “The constitutional issue is now squarely before the
district court, where a full factual record can and will be
developed,” William M. Tambussi, an attorney for Lewis, said
today in an e-mailed statement. “The voters of the Eighth
Legislative District retain the right to vote for the candidate
of their choice.”  Lewis, a 49-year-old Democrat, persuaded the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Philadelphia to stay an April 26 ruling by New
Jersey’s secretary of state that found him ineligible to run for
office because he didn’t meet a four-year residency requirement.
The appeals court remanded the case to Hillman, who had
initially upheld the decision by Secretary of State Kim Guadagno, a Republican who is also the lieutenant governor.  Moved to Texas  Lewis, who grew up in New Jersey before moving to Texas and
 California , is fighting to represent a district that has
traditionally elected Republicans. Incumbent Dawn Marie Addiego,
a Republican, was appointed to fill the vacancy left by Phil Haines, who was tapped for a judgeship.  The nine-time Olympic gold medalist argued that he bought a
home in New Jersey in 2005, which made him a state resident. He
got a state driver’s license in 2006 and became a volunteer
assistant track coach at Willingboro High School, his alma
mater, in 2007. Guadagno said the record showed Lewis didn’t buy
his current home until Nov. 16, 2007, eight days after the
cutoff.  The federal case is Lewis v. Guadagno, 1:11-cv-02381, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  