-- 
News Corp., Exor Face ‘Olympic-Sized’ Negotiations to Purchase Formula One

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-05-06T13:50:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/news-corp-exor-spa-face-olympic-sized-negotiation-to-buy-formula-one.html
News Corp. and the Agnelli family’s
 Exor SpA (EXO)  face “Olympic-sized” negotiations should they go
ahead with an attempt to buy Formula One auto racing, team owner
Frank Williams said.  The prospective bidders must hold three-way talks with
owner CVC Capital Partners Ltd., teams and series ruling body
 Federation Internationale de l’Automobile , said Mark Jenkins, a
business strategy professor at the U.K.’s Cranfield University
who has written about Formula One.  Series chief executive officer  Bernie Ecclestone  will also
play a part in talks as a signatory of the Concorde agreement
that governs the commercial part of the sport, Williams said.
That agreement expires after the 2012 season.  “It would be an Olympic-sized negotiation,” Williams said
in an interview in London. “I would pay a lot of money just to
listen” to Ecclestone and  News Corp. (NWSA)  CEO  Rupert Murdoch  reach
an agreement, Williams added.  London-based CVC said on May 3 that News Corp. and Exor had
made a “friendly” approach about buying Formula One. The
potential bidders also opened discussions with teams, which for
years have pressed for more say in the running of the sport and
more of its income, Jenkins said.  The companies will also need to win over the FIA, which
ceded the commercial rights to Formula One’s previous owners in
2001 while retaining the right of veto over future buyouts,
Jenkins said. Norman Howell, a spokesman for the FIA, didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  Williams, who founded and controls the nine-time champion
team of the same name, said News Corp. and Exor would have to
increase prize money to satisfy teams if they decided to screen
races on pay-television. That would dilute the value of future
sponsorship contracts, he said.  Teams currently get about 75 percent of their income from
sponsorship, and 25 percent from prize money, Williams said. In
2010, teams shared $658 million in prize money, a 21 percent
increase on the previous year, according to filings by CVC at
 Companies House  in London last month.  Formula One had net income of $296 million after increasing
sales by 2 percent to $1.08 billion, the filings said.  Separately, Williams said it was important to shake up his
team this week after it failed to win a point in its first three
races this season.  On May 3, the Grove, England-based team said technical
director Sam Michael and chief aerodynamicist Jon Tomlinson
would leave at the end of the season.  “We need a reaction, we will get one,” Williams said. The
next race is the Turkish Grand Prix in Istanbul on May 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net 
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  