-- 
Players’ Lawyer Ted Olson Calls NFL Lockout Abuse of Monopoly

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-06T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/nfl-players-lawyer-ted-olson-calls-lockout-by-league-an-abuse-of-monopoly.html
The  National Football League  lockout
is “a terrible injustice,” players’ attorney  Theodore Olson 
said, adding that he is trying to prevent the U.S.’s most-
popular sport from abusing its monopoly.  The former U.S. Solicitor General, who is representing
players in a class-action lawsuit against the league, said NFL
owners precipitated the labor fight in 2008 by walking away from
a deal signed two years earlier.  “What they did, in short, is exercise monopoly power in an
oppressive, predatory way,” he said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “I think that’s an injustice that’s got to be
remedied.”  Olson is representing players led by Super Bowl-winning
quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees , who sued
the league in March after the NFL Players Association abandoned
its role as a union in collective bargaining and talks broke
down on how to divide about $9 billion in annual revenue, the
most of any sports league.  NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  declined to respond directly to
Olson’s comments, deferring to arguments made by league lawyers
in a May 2 filing with a federal appeals court.  “The threshold question here is one of jurisdiction, and
the district court lacked it,” NFL attorneys told the appeals
court, arguing that the validity of the union’s disclaimer must
be decided by the  National Labor Relations Board .  “Congress long ago determined that, to achieve and secure
labor peace, federal courts may not interfere -- on either side
-- in cases involving or growing out of a labor dispute,”
according to the league’s court filing.  Lockout Ruling  U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson in  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota , ordered owners to end their six-week lockout of
players in an April 25 decision. The NFL appealed that decision
to a St. Louis-based federal appeals court, where a three-judge
panel on April 29 issued a provisional order allowing owners to
reinstate the shutdown while judges decide if they should put
Nelson’s ruling on hold pending their review of the dispute.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in St. Louis will hear arguments
from players’ and owners’ attorneys on June 3.  Olson said he thinks the judges are analyzing Nelson’s
ruling and won’t wait until June 3 before reaching a decision on
a longer stay.  “I would think that what they are doing now is carefully
analyzing what the district court very carefully analyzed -- the
irreparable injury which is unquestionably being suffered by the
players and the relatively unquestioned, unchallenged fact”
that the owners are violating antitrust laws, he said.  ‘It’s Laughable’  Olson said he doubted the appeals court will agree with the
owners’ claim that the players’ disavowal of their union is “a
sham.” Because of that, the NFL has argued, Nelson has no
jurisdiction over the lockout issue and it belongs before the
NLRB.  “It’s laughable,” said Olson, a partner in the  Washington 
office of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP. “They no longer have any
of the rights they would have as a union and the judge very
thoroughly dismantled that argument.”  Olson served as solicitor general, the government’s top
appellate advocate, under President  George W. Bush . His
successor, Paul D. Clement, is representing the NFL as an
attorney with Washington’s Bancroft PLLC.  Owners bear responsibility for the shutdown of the sport,
which came about a month after its Super Bowl championship
became the most-watched program in U.S. television history,
Olson said.  “It’s like they put a cyclone fence up and they put chains
around the doors and they locked the players out from performing
their profession,” he said.  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-cv-00639, U.S. District
Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul). The appeal is Brady v.
National Football League, 11-1898, 8th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals ( St. Louis ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  