-- 
Nomura Says Crude Oil Prices May Peak This Summer on Libyan Curbs, Demand

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-05-06T03:06:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/nomura-says-crude-oil-prices-may-peak-this-summer-on-libyan-curbs-demand.html
Oil prices  are likely to peak this
summer as the loss of Libyan crude production has an increased
impact on the market amid rising demand in Europe and Japan,
Nomura International Plc said.  Oil has “a potential to spike higher” as European
refineries resume after maintenance in coming months while
demand may be boosted further by a surge in Japan’s electricity
needs in the summer, Nomura analysts including Michael Lo said
in an e-mailed report today. Prices may moderate later in the
year amid “reduced global liquidity,” according to the report.  “Fundamentals will likely tighten in the next few months
on increased demand and reduced supply,” the report said. “We
are penciling in a reduction in geopolitical  risk premium  over
the coming year, which could lead to lower oil prices after the
summer.”  Investor fund-flows into the market may “dry out” in the
next two years on expectations of a stronger dollar and further
monetary tightening, the analysts said.  Crude for June delivery gained $1.13 or 1.1 percent, to
$100.93 a barrel at 9:55 a.m. Singapore time on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Yesterday, it fell 8.6 percent to $99.80,
the lowest settlement since March 16 and the biggest percentage
drop since April 20, 2009. Prices are up 10 percent this year.  Oil climbed as high as $114.83 a barrel in  New York  this
year as revolts that overthrew the governments in Tunisia and
 Egypt  raised concern that supplies from the Middle East would be
disrupted as protests spread. Fighting between rebels and forces
loyal to Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has shut 1.3 million
barrels a day of output in Africa’s third- largest producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ; Ann Koh in Singapore at   akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  