-- 
Nowotny Says Markets Over Interpreted ECB Message Yesterday

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-05-06T08:32:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/nowotny-says-markets-over-interpreted-ecb-message-yesterday-1-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said investors over interpreted the
ECB’s message yesterday, when the euro fell as much as 3 cents
against the dollar.  “I definitely think this is an over-interpretation,”
Nowotny told reporters in Helsinki today. “There can be no idea
about being dovish.” The euro jumped on the comment before
resuming its decline. It traded at $1.4532 at 10:15 a.m. in
 Frankfurt , down from $1.4840 prior to ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet ’s press conference yesterday.  The single currency plunged after Trichet signaled the ECB
doesn’t plan to raise  interest rates  in June, wrong-footing some
investors. Nowotny suggested the ECB may add to April’s monetary
tightening, the first in almost three years, as soon as July
after assessing new economic projections next month. The bank
left its benchmark rate at 1.25 percent yesterday.  “What the ECB council yesterday decided was that we
want full information, especially about medium-term inflation
expectation developments also with respect to 2012,” Nowotny
said. “So in June we will have the new ECB forecasts and that
is the time to decide. But this should not be interpreted as
dovish.”  Nowotny, who heads  Austria ’s central bank, also confirmed
the ECB is reluctant to continue buying  government bonds . It has
refrained from making any purchases for the past five weeks.  “We have had a discussion on this yesterday and our
feeling” was that “being not active was the right thing to
do,” he said. The purchase program “is something that we keep
for the time being but with the intention of using it as little
as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  