-- 
NYC Business-Tax Gain Won’t Stop Budget Cuts, Mayor Boomberg’s Aides Say

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-05-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/nyc-business-tax-gain-won-t-stop-budget-cuts-mayor-s-aides-say.html
New York City business-tax revenue
gains won’t prevent service cuts in the 2012 budget forced by
reduced federal and state funds, aides to Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  Company-tax income will reach $5.75 billion in the fiscal
year beginning July 1, exceeding the $5.41 billion during the
2008 financial crisis, the administration officials said in an
e-mail with details of the budget the mayor will present to the
 City Council  today.  “The cuts are driven by the costs to provide the same
service increasing, while state and federal support have not
kept pace with needs,” said the e-mail, provided by the aides
yesterday on condition their names be withheld. “Those blaming
 Wall Street  for cuts aren’t focusing on the actual problem.”  Today’s executive budget must be balanced and approved by
the council by the start of the fiscal year. The mayor proposed
a $65.6 billion preliminary plan in February that cut 6,166 of
the city’s 75,000 teaching positions, including 4,666 by
dismissals, and reduced spending for senior centers, libraries,
and police and fire personnel.  The mayor will blame lower state and federal aid for cuts
in city personnel and programs, the officials said. If the
budget contained the same percentage of state and federal
contributions as in 2002, New York would have received $6.1
billion more than it will in 2012, according to the e-mail.  “Albany and  Washington  continue to face serious
challenges, and their cuts are real and will have a serious
impact on our budget,” Deputy Mayor Howard Wolfson said in a
statement provided by the aides.  Restoring Cuts  Council members have worked to modify some of the cuts
proposed in the preliminary budget. Councilman Dominic Recchia,
a Brooklyn Democrat who heads the Finance Committee, said in a
May 3 interview the city could retain more teachers if it ended
some contracts with outside education consultants and negotiated
savings with unions.  Council members have also objected to reductions in the
police department. The mayor’s preliminary budget would bring
the  uniformed force down to 34,413  by June 30, 2012, the lowest
since 1992, from a peak of about 40,000 in 2002, Recchia said.  Police Commissioner  Raymond Kelly  said in an interview
yesterday that he expects the department to total about 1,000
more than that next year, with a class of at least 1,200 rookies
enrolling in the police academy in July.  “Nothing is set in stone and circumstances could change,”
Kelly said. “But our expectation, taking into account the rate
of attrition, is to have a force of about 35,400.”  Class Funds Restored  The mayor agreed to restore funds for a class of about
1,400 recruits who will begin at the police academy in July,
Jamie McShane, a spokesman for council Speaker  Christine Quinn ,
said by e-mail. He said Quinn and Recchia persuaded the
administration that the additional officers were needed.  “We are grateful that the city council recognizes that
government’s first responsibility is to protect its citizens,”
Patrick J. Lynch, president of the Patrolmen’s Benevolent
Association, a police union, said in a statement. “We simply
cannot fight traditional crime, maintain order and guard against
terrorist acts without adequate staffing.”  The mayor also proposed to eliminate 16,000 child-care
slots in his February budget. Today, he’ll ensure spaces are
available for every child currently enrolled, at a cost of about
$40 million, the e-mail said. The cuts had been contemplated
because of lost federal funding and increased costs, the
officials said.  “I’m hoping he restores everything,” Recchia said.
“There are many ways we can work this out.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  