-- 
Obama Says U.S. Economy Regaining Momentum With Added Jobs

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-05-06T16:52:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/obama-says-economy-regaining-momentum-with-added-jobs-even-with-oil-prices.html
President  Barack Obama  said the  U.S.
economy  is regaining momentum even as high energy prices have
crimped  consumer spending .  “This is where the American economy is rebuilding, where
we are regaining our footing,” Obama said at the Allison
Transmission Holdings Inc. plant in Indianapolis, which has
added workers and plans to hire more as its business expands.  The president cited a Labor Department report that showed
private sector payrolls increased by 268,000 workers in April.
The  unemployment rate  rose to 9 percent, from 8.8 percent in
March, the first increase since November. Companies have added
2.1 million jobs since last February after losing 8.8 million
during the recession.  “We made this progress at a time when our economy has been
facing some serious headwinds,” Obama said.  The president used Allison as an example of how investments
in alternative energy technology can spur growth. The company
makes hybrid drive trains for buses and is the world’s largest
manufacturer of fully-automatic transmissions for medium- and
heavy-duty commercial vehicles, tactical military vehicles and
hybrid-propulsion systems, according to the White House.  Adding Jobs  Allison, which received a $62.8 million grant from Obama’s
economic stimulus program to produce a hybrid truck propulsion
system, has 2,500 workers in  Indiana  and has announced plans to
add 250 more over the next two years.  The visit is tied to Obama’s goal of reducing by a third
the 11 million barrels of oil the U.S. imported each day when he
was elected by 2025. To reach that, the administration is urging
companies to use more hybrid and alternative-fuel vehicles in
their fleets.  Obama said buses equipped with Allison’s transmissions have
saved 15 million gallons of fuel.  “We can’t just drill our way out of our problem,” Obama
said, reiterating his support for ending special tax breaks for
the oil industry to help pay for spending on alternative energy
research and development.  “If you’re already paying them at the pump, we don’t have
to pay them through the  tax code , especially at a time where we
are scouring every part of the budget to try to bring down our
deficit and our debt,” Obama said.  Energy Prices  Crude oil surged the most in two weeks on the jobs report,
with oil for June delivery gaining $2.32, or 2.3 percent, to
$102.12 a barrel at 10:46 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The national average unleaded gasoline price fell to
$3.984 per gallon yesterday, according to AAA, the nation’s
biggest motoring organization.  Indiana was a battleground state in the 2008 election and
Obama was the first Democratic presidential candidate to win the
state since  Lyndon Johnson  in 1964.  In the midterm 2010 congressional elections the state
voters moved back toward the  Republican Party . Republican Daniel Coats won the U.S. Senate seat previously held by Democrat Evan Bayh, who didn’t run for re-election. Republicans also gained
control of two additional U.S. House seats, now holding six of
the state’s nine House seats.  The Bloomberg Index of companies in the greater
Indianapolis area has risen 17 percent over the past year and
the state’s jobless rate is 8.5 percent, compared with the
national average of 9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Indianapolis at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 