-- 
Republican Hopefuls Attack Obama on National Security at First Debate

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-06T17:46:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/obama-s-national-security-record-attacked-by-republicans-at-first-debate.html
Republicans considering a White House
run criticized President Barack Obama’s leadership on national
security in the primary campaign’s opening  debate , questioning
his judgment less than a week after a U.S. raid he authorized
killed  Osama bin Laden .  At a forum that underscored the unformed nature of the
Republican presidential field, five of Obama’s lesser-known
prospective rivals sought to tarnish the president’s newly
burnished foreign policy credentials following the terrorist
mastermind’s death.  Obama “did a good job, and I tip my cap to him in that
moment,” former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  said in the
debate yesterday, sponsored by the South Carolina Republican
Party and broadcast live on the Fox News cable television
channel.  Pawlenty said, though, that the president has made the
wrong calls on other national-security issues including  Libya ,
where he argued that Obama had limited U.S. options for ousting
leader  Muammar Qaddafi  by being overly deferential to other
nations.  “He made a decision to subordinate our decision-making to
the  United Nations ,” Pawlenty said. He later called the UN a
“pathetic organization.”  Pawlenty, 50, was joined by four others at a gathering at
the Peace Center in Greenville, South Carolina, that lacked
potential candidates with more celebrity star power and better
standing in public polls.  Absentees  Among those absent were former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin,
former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich and real estate
developer Donald Trump. Also absent were two of those who have
led in much of the early polling of potential candidates --
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and former Arkansas
Governor Mike Huckabee.  That gave those present a chance to try to distinguish
themselves during the 90-minute debate in hopes of becoming
serious contenders in the nominating contests that start early
next year.  Pawlenty described himself as a can-do child of a
“working-class family in a meatpacking town.” U.S.
Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  presented unapologetically
libertarian views in a sometimes-humorous way, at one point
defending his support for legalizing heroin to laughter and
applause.  Audience Favorite  Former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania called
himself the true conservative on the Republican roster. Former
New Mexico Governor Gary Johnson bristled at one point when he
said he wasn’t getting enough shots at answering questions,
while Herman Cain, a onetime chairman of Godfather’s Pizza, drew
several rounds of audience applause with his answers.  In one such instance, Cain said he was “proud of the
fact” that he has never held an elective office. “Because I
ask people, ‘Most of the people that are in elective office in
 Washington , D.C., they have held public office before -- how’s
that working for ya?’” he said.  On national security, Santorum, 52, said Obama’s only
successes have piggybacked on his predecessor, Republican  George W. Bush .  “If you look at what President Obama has done right in
foreign policy, it has always been a continuation of the Bush
policies,” Santorum said. “He’s done right by finishing the
job in  Iraq . He’s done right by trying to win in Afghanistan.
Those were existing policies that were in place.”  On other foreign policy matters, Obama has “gotten it
wrong” every time, he added.  Photo Question  With the exception of Cain, all of those on the stage said
that if they had been in the White House, they would have made
the opposite call to Obama’s and released a photo of bin Laden’s
corpse.  Speaking to reporters today, Pawlenty said there are
“good arguments to be made on both sides” of the issue, and that
he doesn’t think it will be a significant election factor.  “There is a public interest in the photographs,” Pawlenty
said. “I don’t think the president needs to be the censor-in-
chief, absent a clear national security or need for it to be
secret or confidential.”  On the debate stage, Santorum, Cain and Pawlenty raised
their hands to indicate that they would support the resumption
of a banned torture technique known as waterboarding under some
circumstances.  Afghanistan Withdrawal  With the al-Qaeda leader dead, Paul called on the U.S. to
remove troops from Afghanistan.  “It is a wonderful time for this country now to reassess
it, and get the troops out of Afghanistan, and end that war that
hasn’t helped us and hasn’t helped anybody in the Middle East,”
said Paul, 75, chairman of the House Financial Services
subcommittee that oversees the  Federal Reserve .  At a time of economic uncertainty and high gas prices, the
candidates all advocated lower taxes and less spending as
essential steps to create jobs, positions that are at the core
of Republican orthodoxy.  Boeing Issue  On an issue generating controversy in  South Carolina ,
Pawlenty and Cain criticized a decision by the National Labor
Relations Board to file a union-retaliation complaint against
Boeing Co. for building an airplane factory in the state rather
than a more union-friendly one.  “It’s a preposterous decision and position of this
administration,” Pawlenty said. “The idea that the federal
government can tell a private business where they can be and not
be in the United States of America is a whole new line that this
administration has crossed.”  Paul later blamed the Federal Reserve for the largest
recession since the Great Depression.  “We have not had the necessary correction for the
financial bubble, created by our Federal Reserve system, and
until you allow the correction and the liquidation of debt, you
can’t have growth,” he said.  Johnson, 58, was booed by the debate audience when he said
he supports abortion rights. “I support a woman’s right to
choose up until viability of the fetus,” he said, adding that
he opposes public money being used to pay for abortions.  Social Issues  Santorum was asked to comment on a statement made last year
by  Indiana  Governor Mitch Daniels, another potential
presidential candidate, who said the next president “would have
to call a truce on the so-called social issues” until the
economic crisis is resolved.  “Anybody that would suggest that we call a truce on the
moral issues doesn’t understand what America is all about,”
Santorum said. He said the sanctity of marriage and protecting
life stemmed from the nation’s fundamental founding principles
and added, “If we abandon that, we have given up on America.”  Cain, who supported Romney in 2008, said he was running
because his party needs new faces.  “Back then, I saw his business experience,” he said.
“I’m running now, rather than supporting Mr. Romney, because he
did not win, so I’m going to try my time.”  Republicans had been focusing more on domestic policy than
foreign policy in making their cases against Obama before last
night’s debate, spotlighting rising gasoline prices, the shaky
 U.S. economy  and a national debt approaching $14.3 trillion.  First Quarter Slowdown  The economy slowed more than forecast in the first quarter
of this year as  government spending  declined by the greatest
amount since 1983 and household purchases cooled. Gross domestic
product rose at a 1.8 percent annual rate from January through
March, down from 3.1 percent in the final three months of 2010.  The president today, in an appearance in Indiana, touted a
Labor Department report showing private sector payrolls
increased by 268,000 workers in April. The  unemployment rate 
rose to 9 percent, from 8.8 percent in March, the first increase
since November. Companies have added 2.1 million jobs since
February 2010 after losing 8.8 million during the recession.  Some of those who didn’t participate in yesterday’s debate
said it was too early in the election cycle for such a session,
especially when they haven’t decided whether they will run.  Other potential candidates who weren’t present were
Daniels, U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , and
 Jon Huntsman , the former Utah governor who resigned last month
as the U.S. ambassador to  China .  Poll Results  At 18 percent, Romney led in a  Quinnipiac University poll 
of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents released May
4. Tied for second were Huckabee and Palin, with 15 percent,
followed by Trump at 12 percent.  Among those on the debate stage, Paul had 5 percent,
Pawlenty 4 percent, and Santorum and Johnson each had 1 percent.
Cain wasn’t included in the survey by the Hamden, Connecticut-
based university.  The poll’s margin of error was plus or minus four
percentage points for its questions on the Republican race.  Huntsman, who created a federal political action committee
on May 3 as a possible prelude to a presidential candidacy, is
scheduled to speak in South Carolina on May 7, his first public
speech since returning to the U.S.  The  Associated Press  decided not to cover the debate to
protest limits placed on media coverage by its organizers. The
AP said in a news report about the dispute that the sponsors
blocked still photographers from entering the debate hall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Greenville, South Carolina, at   jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  