-- 
Ohio House Budget Would Let Kasich Sell Assets Such as Prisons

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/ohio-house-budget-would-let-kasich-sell-assets-such-as-prisons.html
Ohio Governor  John Kasich  could sell
or lease six prisons and the state turnpike under the $55.6
billion, two-year budget that passed the Republican-led House of
Representatives 59-40 yesterday.  The plan, which goes to the Republican-run Senate, erases a
deficit of almost $8 billion without raising taxes while
eliminating an estate levy and maintaining “as much as
possible” funding for education and other services, Republicans
said. It passed without any support from Democrats.  “This is a responsible budget,” Representative Ron Amstutz, a Wooster Republican and chairman of the Finance
Committee, said during debate before the vote. “It’s only those
who feel a responsibility to lead our state forward that are
going to be voting for this budget.”  The spending plan would cut local aid by about $1.44
billion, including about $800 million from school districts.
That would force cities to raise taxes or slash services,
Democrats said. They also said the state won’t get fair value
for the assets to be sold. The fiscal biennium begins July 1.  “This budget sets the wrong priorities,” Representative
Armond Budish, a Beachwood Democrat and his party’s leader in
the House, said during debate. “This budget sets priorities
that will decimate  Ohio ’s middle class, and that is wrong.”  Kasich, a first-term governor, sent buttons to fellow
Republicans that read “Balanced budget, no new taxes” and show
a circle and red line drawn through “8B.”  Lifting Up Ohio  “We’re doing what folks didn’t think anyone could do --
fill a massive $8 billion budget gap without raising taxes,”
Kasich said in a statement after the vote. “Together, we’re
going to get this thing done and lift up Ohio.”  One item sought by Kasich was left out. The governor
proposed raising the pension contribution of government workers
by 2 percentage-points of wages. The House plan omitted the
provision as lawmakers sought more time to weigh the change.  Kasich’s March 15 spending proposal called for raising an
estimated $200 million by selling five prisons to companies that
would run them. The House plan would add a juvenile correctional
facility for sale or lease.  The House budget also calls for transferring wholesale
liquor distribution, now run by the state, to  JobsOhio , a
nonprofit group created to oversee economic development.  The proceeds of any asset sales or leases could only be
spent with legislative approval, according to budget documents.
Kasich has estimated that the state could get $3 billion for a
lease of the 241-mile (612-kilometer)  Ohio Turnpike .  Permission Required  “It is our responsibility to give permission,” House
Speaker William G. Batchelder, a Republican from Medina, told
reporters on May 4.  The state may not get an adequate return, said
Representative Alicia Reece, a Cincinnati Democrat who voted
against the plan.  The state will get appraisals and expert opinions before
selling the assets to ensure a fair price is received,
Batchelder told reporters after the vote.  The House plan also calls for ending the estate tax
starting in 2013. The levy of as much as 7 percent generated
$333.8 million in 2009, according to the Taxation Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in New York at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  