-- 
Opap to Cut Costs, ‘Fight’ for Growth Chances, CEO Says

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-05-06T08:21:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/opap-to-cut-costs-fight-for-growth-chances-ceo-says-1-.html
Opap SA (OPAP) ,  Europe ’s biggest listed
gambling company, plans to cut payroll costs and “fight” to
secure growth opportunities, Chief Executive Officer Ioannis Spanoudakis said.  “We are not looking to contain what we have,” Spanoudakis
said in a telephone interview from his  Athens  office on May 4.
“We are not looking just to become a more cost-effective,
productive company but we are looking to be involved in more
business opportunities in Greece, on the internet and outside of
Greece.”  “There are no job cuts” in the payroll-costs reduction
plan, which at present are the equivalent of about 1 percent of
revenue, Spanoudakis said. No exact figures are available
because the plan, which has been agreed with the employee union,
is awaiting final approval by the company’s board.  Greece ’s government is working on legislation to regulate
the gambling market. Licenses for video-lottery terminals,
internet betting and any instant-lottery scratch game are
“tremendous opportunities” for Opap and “we are going to
fight for them,” Spanoudakis said.  Last month the Greek state announced plans to sell its 34
percent stake in Opap in 2012, call a tender for the national
lottery and sell its holdings in casinos as part of a state-
asset sale which aims to raise 50 billion euros ($72.7 billion)
through 2015 to help pay down the country’s debt.  The national lottery is an “attractive opportunity,”
while the company doesn’t plan to bid for the casino stakes,
Spanoudakis said. There haven’t been any talks on government
plans to extend the company’s monopoly on sports betting,
currently until 2020, Spanoudakis said.  Spanoudakis said proper regulation of the country’s
gambling market “can and will” be an effective way to boost
state revenue. Greece’s illegal gambling market is worth over 4
billion euros a year, the Athens-based  finance ministry  said in
a Jan. 25 presentation.  Earnings will be “slightly worse” in 2011 than the
second-half of last year as the company is faced with Greece’s
recession, Spanoudakis said. Net profit in the second half of
last year was 323.9 million euros and sales were 2.4 billion
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  