-- 
Oprah Winfrey Network Ousts CEO Norman After Initial Ratings Disappoint

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-05-06T19:21:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/oprah-winfrey-network-ousts-ceo-norman-after-initial-ratings-disappoint.html
Oprah Winfrey Network dismissed Chief
Executive Officer Christina Norman after ratings at the four-
month old cable channel fell below the expectations of its
backers.  Norman will be replaced on an interim basis by  Peter Liguori , chief operating officer of  Discovery Communications
Inc. (DISCA) , which co-owns the channel with talk-show host Winfrey,
according to a statement today. The channel began a search for a
permanent CEO.  Liguori will be the third head of the female-targeted OWN,
which started on Jan. 1. The channel has so far been a
disappointment to Discovery. The company had spent $216 million
on the channel through March 31, according to regulatory
filings. Norman, who replaced Robin Schwartz in 2009, failed
to deliver the ratings that Discovery CEO David Zaslav wanted.  “The ratings have been, out of the first few months, below
our expectations,” said Discovery CEO David Zaslav in an April
28 conference call with investors.  Discovery, based in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland , initially
committed to spend $100 million on OWN, it has said in filings.  Discovery Communications rose 37 cents to $44.52 2:38 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares had gained 5.9
percent this year before today.  The channel, which has a lineup including a reality show
featuring the singing Judd family and a “Oprah Behind the
Scenes," is competing with programmers including Lifetime, owned
by Walt Disney Co. and Hearst Corp., and  NBC Universal ’s Bravo.  Liguori’s appointment ‘‘reflects a transition from a launch
phase to a more long-term focus on business and creative
strategy, development and execution,” Discovery said in the
statement.  The channel started without a current talk show from
Winfrey, who is contractually committed to her syndicated
broadcast show and will start a new program on OWN next year.  The company said that it expects Winfrey to host “Oprah’s
Next Chapter” beginning in early 2012. It also said a new talk
show from Rosie O’Donnell, “Rosie,” will make its debut in
October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  