-- 
Ousted Africa Israel USA Chief Richard Marin Alleges He Uncovered ‘Abuses’

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-06T19:51:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/ousted-africa-israel-chief-marin-alleges-he-uncovered-abuses-.html
Richard Marin, former chief executive
officer of Africa  Israel  USA, sued the company and its Israel-
based parent, saying he was fired after uncovering “serious
instances of self-dealing and conflict of interest.”  Marin, who became CEO in February 2009, is seeking to
recover a $1.25 million bonus he said he was promised for last
year, plus management incentive fees and damages for his
termination in December.  “This is a case of a company firing an executive in order
to cover up wrongdoing that the executive discovered and
reported,” Marin said in the complaint, filed yesterday in  New
York  State  Supreme Court  in  Manhattan . A lawyer for the company
said today that Marin was fired after disagreements with
management in Israel about strategy, and that he delayed
repayment of a loan against the bonus.  Africa Israel USA, a unit of Israeli billionaire Lev Leviev’s  Africa Israel Investments Ltd. (AFIL) , made its highest-
profile acquisitions just before the onset of the credit crunch
in 2007. A series of acquisitions that included the $525 million
purchase of the former New York Times building and Manhattan’s
Clock Tower building for $200 million saddled the firm with $2
billion of debt.  Marin was hired to help the company “stop the bleeding”
from its “badly timed investment binge,” according to his
suit.  ‘Willful Diversion’  Marin alleges that the company, struggling to restructure
its debt, diverted a valuable client to a competing firm founded
by a former employee. That client, China Sonangol International
Ltd., which owns an office building at 23 Wall Street, brought
more than $200,000 of fees to Africa Israel, which was managing
the property, Marin’s suit said. China Sonangol also owed Africa
Israel $700,000 and Marin said that senior management in Israel
prohibited him from suing to recover those funds because the
Hong Kong firm has ties to Leviev’s non-real estate ventures.  “Willful diversion of the opportunity deprived
shareholders of Africa-Israel of hundreds of thousands of
dollars in revenue,” Marin alleged in the suit.  Y. David Scharf, a lawyer for Africa Israel, said Marin was
terminated because of a series of disagreements with management
in Israel, including disputes over the strategic direction of
the company and “outwardly hostile” remarks to Leviev in front
of senior management. Marin also borrowed $500,000 against his
bonus, according to Scharf and Marin’s lawsuit. The amount
should have been paid back in 2010, Scharf said; instead Marin
created a promissory note with a date in 2011, against the bonus
he expected to receive for 2010.  Bonus Advance  “He basically took the company’s money and gave himself an
advance against the 2010 bonus, which wasn’t guaranteed. It was
completely discretionary,” Scharf said.  Marin described the bonus advance in his suit, saying he
and management agreed the loan would be due in June 2011, and be
repaid from his expected 2010 bonus. Africa Israel recorded the
loan and its payment date in corporate filings in June and
September 2010, according to the lawsuit.  Scharf also said that China Sonangol was unhappy with
Africa Israel’s performance in leasing the vacant space at 23
 Wall Street , so Africa Israel referred it to another firm.  “It wasn’t like Africa Israel diverted business to a
competitor; they actually saved a working relationship,” Scharf
said. “Africa Israel was not generating revenue, not leasing
the property.”  The case is Richard A. Marin v. AI Holdings (USA) Corp.,
651224/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  