-- 
Palm Oil Declines for a Third Day, Tracks Slump in Commodities

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-05-06T06:24:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/palm-oil-declines-for-a-third-day-tracks-slump-in-commodities.html
Palm oil  fell for a third day after
commodities dropped the most in more than two years on concern
that economic growth will slow as central banks seek to cool
inflation by raising borrowing costs.  The July-delivery contract declined as much as 1.8 percent
to 3,170 ringgit ($1,057) a metric ton on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange, the lowest since March 24, and ended the
morning session at 3,196 ringgit. Futures have fallen 2.3
percent this week, set for a second weekly decline.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials sank
6.5 percent yesterday in New York, the biggest decline since
January 2009. Oil tumbled 8.6 percent, the most in two years, to
$99.80 a barrel. Malaysia raised  interest rates  for the first
time this year joining  India , Vietnam and the Philippines in
stepping up the fight against inflation amid surging oil and
food prices.  “There is a broad selloff by  hedge funds  in commodities,
including metals, bullion, crude, and palm oil and  soybean oil 
are part of that,” Sandeep Bajoria, chief executive officer at
brokerage Sunvin Group, said by phone from Mumbai. “Until
commodity prices cool off, central banks will have no choice but
to raise interest rates, because inflation will become a very
big problem everywhere.”  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas yesterday increased the rate it
pays lenders for overnight deposits to 4.5 percent from 4.25
percent in its second move this year, while  Bank Negara Malaysia 
lifted the benchmark overnight policy rate for the first time in
2011, boosting it by a quarter point to 3 percent.  Rate Increase  The interest rate increase “will lend some support to the
ringgit, so it’s a negative tone for the palm oil market,” Ker
Chung Yang, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte, said by phone
from  Singapore . “We’re also concerned that the latest monetary
tightening from the various Asian countries could curb demand
for commodities in the short term,” Ker said.  Inflation in the Philippines accelerated to 4.5 percent in
April, a report showed yesterday, while Malaysia’s inflation may
accelerate to a range of 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent this year
from 1.7 percent in 2010, according to the central bank.  Asia  faces a “serious setback” from surging inflation
that threatens to push millions into extreme poverty, the Asian
Development Bank said last week.  Oil declined for a fourth day in  New York  yesterday, the
longest losing streak in eight weeks, as a drop in gasoline
demand added to signs of slowing growth in the U.S., the world’s
biggest crude consumer.  July-delivery soybeans gained as much as 0.7 percent to
$13.31 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, while soybean oil
for delivery in the same month increased as much as 0.7 percent
to 56.14 cents. Palm oil and soybean oil are substitutes in food
and fuel uses.  January-delivery palm oil on the  Dalian Commodity Exchange 
fell as much as 2.8 percent to 8,830 yuan ($1,360) a ton and was
at 8,880 yuan at 1:55 p.m. local time.  CME Group Inc.’s most-active July palm-oil contract, pegged
to the Malaysian benchmark, lost 1.5 percent to $1,065.75 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  