-- 
Gross Says Growth Insufficient to Sustain Jobs: Tom Keene

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-05-06T13:49:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/pimco-s-gross-says-u-s-economic-growth-not-enough-to-support-asset-gains.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
U.S. growth isn’t sufficient to support asset and labor markets
nor enough to compensate for the nation’s growing debt level.  “The private economy is moving ahead as evidenced by
today’s number but at a measured pace,” Gross said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “Year-
over-year real gross domestic product is holding at 2 percent,
while nominal GDP is only 3.9 percent. That’s hardly sufficient
to support both asset and labor markets in combination, nor is
it sufficient to grow our way out of a steadily increasing debt
to GDP ratio. It’s not enough.”  While employment growth will be probably be strong the next
few months, investors will need to see whether that is
sustainable once the  Federal Reserve ’s policy of quantitative
easing ends in June, according to Gross. The U.S. benchmark
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has surged since the Fed began the
second round of debt purchases in November, which was intended
in part to boost asset prices, adding to investors’ wealth. The
 S&P 500 , which has lost about 2.1 percent so far this month,
closed on April 29 at the highest level since June 5, 2008.  Employment Gains  Payrolls increased by 244,000 workers last month, the
biggest gain since May 2010, after a revised 221,000 gain the
prior month, the Labor Department said today. Economists
projected an April rise of 185,000, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Employment excluding
government jobs jumped the most in five years. The jobless rate
rose to 9 percent, the first increase since November.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said this week that
the U.S. can borrow until Aug. 2 after reaching the $14.29
trillion debt limit this month. President  Barack Obama  has
offered outlines of a plan to reduce the growth of the debt by
$4 trillion over 12 years through a combination of spending cuts
and tax increases.  “I can’t imagine it getting much better and we do still
believe in the ‘new normal’,” Gross added in the radio
interview, referring to Pimco’s view first adopted in May 2009
to describe an era of lower returns and slower economic growth,
heightened  government regulation  and diminishing clout for the
U.S. in the world economy. “At least it’s still positive as
opposed to negative,” he said.  Yield Increase  The $241 billion Total Return Fund managed by Gross had
minus 3 percent of its assets in U.S. government-related debt in
March after reducing the position to zero in February,  Newport
Beach , California-based Pimco said last month on its website.
The fund can have a negative position by using derivatives or
futures or by shorting. Shorting is borrowing and selling an
asset in anticipation of making a profit by buying it back after
its price has fallen.  The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond increased seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 4.33 percent at 9:48
a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.
Yields on 10-year notes rose five basis points to 3.2 percent.  Pimco’s cash and equivalents rose to 31 percent in March
from 23 percent in the prior month, making the category the
largest component for the first time in four years. The firm’s
holdings of Treasuries totaled 63 percent in June, the highest
since October 2009, when it held the same amount.  The Fed has kept its target rate for overnight lending
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and
has aimed to boost economic growth through stimulus including
$600 billion of debt purchases under the second round of
quantitative easing, scheduled to end in June.  Debt Burden  The amount of marketable Treasuries outstanding has more
than doubled to $9.1 trillion since the start of the
financial crisis in August 2007.  The Total Return Fund has returned 7.3 percent in the past
year, beating 83 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The one-month return is 1.5 percent.
Pimco is a unit of insurer Allianz SE in Munich.  Government-related debt refers to sovereign bonds, Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, agency bonds, interest-
rate swaps, Treasury futures and options and corporate
securities guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
according to Pimco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  