-- 
Plains Says Poor Excavation May Have Caused Pipeline Break

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-05-06T21:11:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/plains-says-poor-excavation-may-have-caused-pipeline-break-1-.html
Plains Midstream Canada LP said that a
pipeline spill April 29 in northern  Alberta  may have resulted
from stress after surrounding ground was improperly excavated
last year.  Soil was inadequately compacted around the section of the
pipe after the dig, Stephen Bart, Plains’s vice president of
operations, said at a press conference today in Calgary.  The company suspects stress broke the pipe and allowed
28,000 barrels of oil to spill onto soft muskeg. The excavation
was done by a contractor and approved by a third-party
inspector, he said.  “It was obvious to us onsite that there was improper
compaction,” Bart said. The Calgary-based company tested the
pipe in mid-April and found no corrosion or cracking, he said.  An alarm tripped and automatically shut valves along a 72-
kilometer (45-mile) segment of the line at about 2:50 a.m. April
29. The line may have shut on April 28 and been restarted
remotely by operators, Bart said.  The 772-kilometer conduit links the Norman Wells Pipeline
from the Northwest Territories to refinery and pipeline hubs in
 Edmonton , Alberta.  Awaiting Approval  The line has been repaired and requires approval from
Alberta regulators to restart, Bart said. The company doesn’t
know when that will be. Oil has been routed and trucked around
broken leg of the 220,000-barrel-a-day system since the
shutdown.  A crack between 0.25 inch and 0.5 inch ran around at least
half the circumference of the pipe, said Davis Sheremata, a
spokesman for the Alberta Energy Resources Conservation Board.  The company has about 300 people on the spill site and has
built roads from wooden mats to bring equipment over the soft
ground. Seven beavers, seven ducks and one other migratory bird
have died so far as a result of the spill, Bart said.  Plains Midstream is a closely held affiliate of Houston-
based  Plains All American Pipeline LP. (PAA)  Plains All American rose
79 cents to $62.29 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  