-- 
Poland’s Polkomtel Said to Get as Many as Four Takeover Bids

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-05-06T17:36:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/polkomtel-polish-mobile-phone-operator-said-to-get-as-many-as-four-bids.html
Polkomtel SA, Poland’s second-largest
mobile-phone company, is set to receive as many as four bids
from potential buyers, people familiar with the negotiations
said.  The bidders include  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ,  Sweden ’s biggest phone
company, a group formed by  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and private-equity firm
Bain Capital LLC, Polish billionaire Zygmunt Solorz-Zak and Apax
Partners LLP, according to the people. They declined to be
identified as the talks are private.  The four groups examined Polkomtel’s books and are now
considering bids, the people said. Polkomtel in April said that
potential investors have until May 6 to place final offers.
Spokesmen for Warsaw-based Polkomtel and all the potential
bidders declined to comment today. TeliaSonera in February said
it placed an initial bid.  Polkomtel’s owners, which include  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , oil
refiner PKN Orlen SA, copper miner  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH)  and
power utility PGE SA, are seeking to sell their stakes in the
first half. The 2008 sale by  Denmark ’s TDC A/S of a 20 percent
holding provides a 3.7 billion-euro ($5.3 billion) minimum
valuation, KGHM said in November.  TeliaSonera, which has units in  Finland ,  Norway , Denmark,
Latvia, Lithuania and  Estonia , wants to transfer its experience
in building mobile broadband and data services if it wins
Polkomtel. The company was the first to offer Apple Inc.’s
iPhone in the region and currently sells smartphones to nine out
of 10 handset customers in Sweden, boosting its mobile data
revenue.  Polkomtel, operator of the Plus brand, has more than 14
million customers for basic voice and third-generation wireless
services. It competes with Polska Telefonia Cyfrowa, owned by
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , and  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  