-- 
Portman Crashes Thor With SUV; Hudson Betrays Best Friend: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/portman-crashes-thor-with-suv-hudson-two-times-best-friend-rick-warner.html
Kenneth Branagh shifts from
Shakespeare to comic books in “ Thor ,” his whiz-bang 3-D
adventure film about the hammer-wielding Marvel superhero
loosely based on the Norse god.  The movie is an entertaining blend of action, humor and
computer effects. It’s also considerably more intelligent than
most other big-screen versions of Marvel characters, with the
notable exception of the original “ Iron Man .”  Australian Chris Hemsworth has the bodybuilder physique and
bad-boy charm needed to play Thor, a vain warrior from the
mystical realm of Asgard who is banished to Earth by his father,
King Odin ( Anthony Hopkins ), after recklessly igniting an
interplanetary war.  Natalie Portman , who seems to be in every other film this
year following her Oscar for “ Black Swan ,” portrays one of the
scientists who find Thor after he crashes in the New Mexico
desert. After a bumpy start -- twice, she accidentally hits him
with her SUV -- they join forces as Thor battles the Destroyer,
a giant metallic robot controlled by the hero's villainous 
brother Loki (Tom Hiddleston).  Meanwhile, Thor desperately seeks to reclaim his mighty
hammer, which is imbedded in a rock under the heavy guard of a
secret government agency that’s trying to figure out what the
mysterious object is.  The confrontation climaxes with a “High Noon” showdown
between bearded Thor, who’s built like a steroid-pumped
professional wrestler, and the Destroyer, who looks like a
skyscraper in an armored suit.  “Thor,” from  Paramount Pictures , is playing across the
U.S. Rating: ***  ‘Something Borrowed’  The title of “ Something Borrowed ” sums up its major
drawback: There’s not a shred of originality in this somnolent
romantic comedy about a lovelorn 30-year-old attorney who has an
affair with her best friend’s fiance.  It borrows heavily from films with similar plots (recent
example: “The Dilemma”) without finding new or interesting
ways to explore the themes of betrayal and romantic yearning.  “Something Borrowed” stars Ginnifer Goodwin as Rachel,
the usually goody two-shoes lawyer who has a fling with her
hunky former law-school classmate Dex (Colin Egglesfield) even
though he’s engaged to her lifelong pal Darcy (Kate Hudson).  Based on Emily Giffin’s chick-lit novel, the story plays
out in the comfy Manhattan neighborhoods where the characters
live and work and the ritzy Hamptons, where they chill and party
with friends including earnest Ethan (John Krasinski) and rowdy
Marcus (Steve Howey).  Party Girl  Screenwriter Jennie Snyder Urman and director Luke
Greenfield try, with little success, to milk laughs out of the
yin-yang contrasts between Darcy and Rachel. (Darcy is a not-
too-bright party girl who lives in the moment, while Rachel is
whip-smart and overly cautious.)  Hudson is too cutesy and Goodwin (who played the youngest
wife of a polygamist on  HBO ’s “Big Love”) too phlegmatic.
Egglesfield, a former fashion model, does a good impression of a
mannequin.  “Something Borrowed,” from  Warner Bros. Pictures , is
playing across the U.S. Rating: *1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 