-- 
Possible 2012 White House Candidate Daniels Says He’ll Decide Within Weeks

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-05-06T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/possible-2012-candidate-daniels-says-he-will-decide-within-weeks.html
Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels said he
would announce within weeks whether he will seek the 2012
Republican presidential nomination.  “I know I owe a lot of people an answer,” he said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend.  Daniels, 62, described his family as apprehensive about the
prospect of a national campaign. Their concerns, he said, are
“a very, very important factor” in his decision.  “I may be up for bungee-jumping, but this is one where you
have to strap on some other people,” he said.  The two-term governor and former budget director for
President  George W. Bush  said he would be ready to debate
President Barack Obama on foreign policy, if he were to run.  “I would spend a lot of time very promptly and be ready in
plenty of time” to discuss that topic, he said. “There’s no
need for me to shoot my mouth off until I’m pretty confident I
know what I think.”  When asked in a May 3 Bloomberg View  event  with journalists
if he was ready to debate Obama on foreign policy, Daniels
answered “probably not.”  In a February speech in  Washington  at the annual
 Conservative Political Action  Conference, cast the government’s
growing debt as a national security threat. “We face an enemy
lethal to freedom,” Daniels said. “It is the new ‘Red Menace,’
this time consisting of ink.”  ‘Mistaken Idea’  In the Bloomberg television interview, Daniels said tax-
rate increases as one way to decrease the debt “are a mistaken
idea.” What is needed in revising the tax code, he said, are
“lower and flatter rates.”  National polls of Republican-leaning voters have shown
Daniels typically receiving three or fewer percentage points of
support.  None of the potential Republican candidates break the 20-
percent mark of support, according to a  poll  released May 4 by
 Quinnipiac University  in Hamden, Connecticut.  Daniels offered few clues about his political future in May
4 remarks in Washington, saying there is still time for
candidates to join the Republican race.  “I really thought it might become too late somewhere along
the line,” he said in a policy address at the  American
Enterprise Institute , a research organization that favors
smaller government, “but for whatever reason it appears not to
be, and I think it’s a happy surprise.”  Daniels praised the slow pace of the Republican nomination
contest. “It’s a darn good thing that we’ll have nomination
campaign measured in months not years,” he said.  Other Prospects  Two former Republican governors,  Tim Pawlenty  of Minnesota
and Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, and former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania have filed paperwork with the  Federal
Election Commission  to raise money for potential runs. Texas
Congressman  Ron Paul , who is considering a third run for the
White House, has also announced an exploratory committee.  Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman, who stepped down as U.S.
ambassador to  China  at the end of April, moved toward entering
the race May 3 when he formed a political action committee,
which lets him raise money to hire aides and travel the country
as he mulls a bid.  Other potential candidates include former Arkansas Governor
Mike Huckabee, former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin and former
House Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia.  The lack of a clear Republican front-runner has encouraged
others, including Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota ,
a Tea Party favorite, and real estate developer  Donald Trump  to
position themselves for potential runs.  Trump Comment  Trump in a May 1 interview said that “in my mind” he has
decided to launch a presidential run, yet won’t make an official
announcement until his reality television show, “Celebrity
Apprentice,” wraps up its season later this month.  Daniels said on the “Political Capital” program that “I
don’t know Mr. Trump. I’m pretty sure that we disagree about a
number of things.”  Among the most frequently mentioned potential candidates,
Pawlenty, Santorum and Paul participated in the campaign
season’s first official debate, held last night in South
Carolina. The debate’s two other participants were former New
Mexico Governor Gary Johnson
and Herman Cain, the former chairman of Godfather’s Pizza.  As the Republican race gears up, Obama has opened a 2012
re-election campaign headquarters in  Chicago  and raised millions
of dollars last month at events in  Illinois ,  California  and  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 