-- 
Power Finance, India Said to Plan Share Sale Valued at Up to $1 Billion

-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y ,   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-05-06T13:56:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/power-finance-india-said-to-plan-share-sale-valued-at-up-to-1-billion.html
Power Finance Corp.,  India ’s biggest
lender to utilities, will sell as much as 45.8 billion rupees
($1 billion) of shares, as the nation revives its asset sale
program, two government officials with direct knowledge of the
plan said.  The New Delhi-based company will sell the shares for 193
rupees to 203 rupees apiece, the officials said, declining to be
identified before an official announcement. The sale of 229.55
million shares runs from May 10 to May 13, according to a
document filed with the Securities and Exchange Board of India.
Retail bidders and employees will get a 5 percent discount, one
of the officials said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is reviving asset sales to
help the government meet its plan of raising 400 billion rupees
selling stakes in state companies in the year that began on
April 1. A 9.7 percent drop this year in the benchmark Sensex
index,  Asia ’s worst-performing measure, may deter investors.
India raised just half of its target from such sales last year.  Power Finance fell 0.3 percent to 214.45 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close in Mumbai. The shares have fallen 31 percent this
year, making it the second-worst performing stock in the
Bloomberg Asia Pacific Diverse Financial Services Index.  The Sensex has declined this year on concern faster
inflation will cause borrowing costs to rise, crimping growth in
corporate earnings.  Bank of America Corp.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , ICICI
Securities Ltd. and  JM Financial Ltd. (JM)  are managing the
transaction, according to an April 25 sale document.  Indian companies have raised 178 billion rupees in local
share sales this year, less than half the amount they sold in
the same period in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The South Asian nation owns almost 90 percent of Power
Finance, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  