-- 
Rajaratnam Jurors Set to Begin Third Week of Deliberations

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-07T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/rajaratnam-jury-without-verdict-after-two-weeks-of-deliberations.html
Jurors in the insider-trading trial of
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, after finishing a
second week of deliberations without reaching a verdict, are
scheduled to resume their discussions May 9.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell discharged the panel
for the weekend at the end of yesterday, a day in which jurors
sent no notes asking for evidence or other materials.  Rajaratnam, wearing a blue protective boot on his right
foot, returned to court yesterday for the first time during the
week. Rajaratnam was absent, with Holwell’s approval, after
having emergency surgery May 1 to treat a bacterial infection of
his foot.  The jurors, who have been considering the case for all or
part of nine days, restarted their deliberations May 4 after one
juror had to be replaced by an alternate because of unspecified
medical reasons.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial as part of the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about stocks including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Clearwire Corp.  Rajaratnam, who said he based the trades on research, faces
as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of the most serious
counts.  On May 5, jurors asked to rehear six recorded wiretaps of
Danielle Chiesi, a former analyst at New Castle Funds LLC,
Rajaratnam’s former codefendant who has pleaded guilty in the
case.  The previous day, jurors reheard wiretaps of conversations
between Rajaratnam and others including former McKinsey & Co.
partner Anil Kumar.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in  Manhattan  federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  