-- 
RBA Sees Need for Higher Rates ‘At Some Point’ to Slow Australia Inflation

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-05-06T03:09:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/rba-sees-need-for-higher-rates-at-some-point-to-slow-australia-inflation.html
Australia’s central bank said higher
 interest rates  will likely be needed “at some point” to
contain inflation that’s predicted to accelerate this year
faster than previously forecast.  While the currency’s 21 percent gain in the past year and
higher household savings will “offset some of the inflationary
pressures associated with the resources boom, underlying
inflation is expected to be in the top part of the target band
over much of the next couple of years,” the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia said in a quarterly review in Sydney today.  The Australian dollar rose the most in two weeks as traders
boosted bets that central bank Governor Glenn Stevens will lift
rates as soon as next month. Surging shipments of  iron ore  and
coal to China and  India  are driving growth and increasing demand
for workers in an economy close to capacity.  “The dramatic upward revision to both the level and
profile of inflation speaks of a bank that has more than just
one tightening on their mind,” said  Glenn Maguire , chief Asia
economist for Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “We believe the
RBA will raise the cash rate by 25 basis points in August,
November and February next year before it will be satisfied that
a formidable inflation pulse is contained.”  The RBA forecast growth in the year through to the final
quarter of 2011 at 4.25 percent, unchanged from its February
estimate. Consumer prices will rise 3.25 percent over the
period, from a previous prediction of 3 percent, and  core
inflation  will quicken to 3 percent from 2.75 percent, it said.  ‘Further Tightening’  The outlook “suggests that further tightening of monetary
policy is likely to be required at some point for inflation to
remain consistent” with a goal of 2 percent to 3 percent in the
medium term, the central bank said.  Australia ’s currency advanced to $1.0721 at 12:56 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0649 before the statement. The Stwo-year bond
yield rose 6.5 basis points to 5 percent.  Traders bet there is a 26 percent chance that Stevens will
boost rates by a quarter percentage point to 5 percent next
month, a 44 percent chance in July and 70 percent in August,
bank bill futures showed after today’s statement.  Stevens raised the overnight cash rate target seven times
from October 2009 to November 2010. He has paused for the past
five meetings.  “Some areas of the economy are expected to be very strong,
while conditions will be quite difficult in others due to the
appreciation of the  exchange rate  and subdued  consumer
spending ,” the central bank said today.  Inflation Outlook  Inflation is forecast to be 3 percent in the year to the
final quarter of 2012, and accelerate to 3.25 percent in 2013,
the central bank said today.  “The RBA has cleared up the confusion over their plans,”
said  Adam Carr , a senior economist at ICAP Australia Ltd. in
Sydney. “The fact they’ve got inflation at 3 percent by year-
end and through the forecast horizon suggests we can expect a
near-term hike.”  The RBA’s 175 basis points of rate increases and a mining
boom that has lowered unemployment to 4.9 percent helped
Australia’s currency surpass $1.10 this week, the highest level
since it was freely floated in 1983. In contrast, the U.S.
Federal Reserve has kept its main interest rate near zero since
December 2008 and unemployment there is 8.8 percent.  The RBA said today that “in trade-weighted terms, the real
exchange rate is at its highest level since the mid-1970s.”  Tourism Slump  That strength hurt non-resource industries, with the
nation’s manufacturing contracting in April for the seventh time
in eight months and the tourism industry suffering.  Household spending is also subdued, with the RBA saying
today that personal savings have increased in recent years to
the highest level since the 1980s.  Retail sales fell in March for the first time in five
months, a report showed yesterday, sending shares lower for  Myer
Holdings Ltd. (MYR) , David Jones Ltd. and  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)   Driving growth is the mining investment spree, spurring
companies to hire.  Australian employers added 37,800 workers in March, more
than economists forecast, led by hiring in the mineral- and
energy-rich states of  Western Australia  and Queensland. The
country recorded its biggest annual job gain on record last
year.  Job Growth  “Most leading indicators point to further growth in
employment over the months ahead, although at a slower pace than
in 2010,” the Reserve Bank said today. It also predicted the
jobless rate would fall to 4.25 percent by December 2013.  Australian consumer prices surged 1.6 percent in the first
quarter from three months earlier, the biggest increase since
2006, driven by fruit and vegetable costs as torrential rains in
Queensland state shut coal mines and damaged crops. In February,
a cyclone slammed into Queensland’s north coast.  The RBA today reiterated its May 3 statement, when it kept
rates on hold for a fifth straight meeting, that gross domestic
product “is likely to have declined in the March quarter” as
flood damage significantly reduced coal production and the
recovery takes longer than earlier expected.  As floodwaters recede, builders may need to compete with
mining and energy companies for workers.  Mining Bonanza  Two coal-seam gas projects, expected to cost more than A$30
billion, are proceeding near the Queensland port of Gladstone.
 Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-largest oil producer, and BG
Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest gas producer, will start
hiring the first of more than 10,000 construction workers needed
for the two projects later this year.  The RBA said today wage growth is “slightly above” its
average pace over the past decade.  “With growth in  labor productivity  remaining low, unit
labor costs have been growing quite quickly,” the central bank
said. “Wage increases have tended to be highest in mining-
related occupations and in Western Australia and Queensland.
While there are some reports of shortages for specific
occupations, most firms are not reporting unusual difficulties
in hiring new workers.”  The RBA also said today that conditions in Australia’s
housing market “remain subdued” because credit growth has
slowed and property prices in most cities have either stagnated
or declined over the past few months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  