-- 
RBS’s Hester Says ‘Sins From Past’ Receding as Bank Has Loss

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-05-06T15:42:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/rbs-posts-quarterly-loss-on-government-insurance-plan-costs-1-.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said the “sins from the past
are receding” after the government-controlled lender posted a
bigger-than-estimated first quarter loss.  “There are still a few of them with us, and there will be
several more quarters obviously in which that receding
happens,” Hester told reporters today. “As we tick off each of
these items from the past, then that growing operating profit
will become increasingly available to shareholders.”  The net loss more than doubled to 528 million pounds ($866
million) from 248 million pounds in the year-earlier period on
charges for using a government insurance program for its
riskiest assets. Operating profit rose to 1.05 billion pounds in
the first quarter from 882 million pounds a year earlier. The
stock rose the most in almost four months in London trading.  Hester said in February the lender will this year post its
first annual profit since receiving the biggest bank bailout in
the world. The lender, which received 45.5 billion pounds, has
cut about 27,000 jobs and shrunk RBS’s balance sheet by almost a
trillion pounds since Hester replaced  Fred Goodwin  as CEO during
the financial crisis of November 2008.  The net loss missed the 14.4 million-pound median loss
estimated by three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Still, profit
from RBS’s British retail and corporate banking unit more than
doubled to about 1 billion pounds in the first quarter. The
lender’s insurance unit, the owner of Churchill and Direct Line,
posted its first profit in five quarters.  ‘Better Than Expected’  Operating income at RBS’s investment banking, or global
banking and markets, division doubled to 1.1 billion pounds from
527 million pounds in the fourth quarter of 2010. That was still
down from 1.5 billion pounds in the year-earlier period.  “The insurance division and the global markets division
were quite encouraging,” Colin McLean, CEO of SVM Asset
Management Ltd. in Edinburgh, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s Maryam Nemazee. “The market will give
RBS the benefit of the doubt that they are turning it around.”  The stock rose 5.6 percent to 42.74 pence in  London  today
for a market value of 46.8 billion pounds. The taxpayer paid
50.2 pence a share for its 83 percent stake in the lender.  Barclays Plc last month posted a decline in profit in the
first three months of the year as investment banking revenue
tumbled. Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, yesterday posted a first-quarter net loss of 2.4 billion
pounds on costs for compensating clients that were improperly
sold loan insurance.  Customer Compensation  A U.K. court last month decided banks may have to pay
compensation to customers improperly sold PPI, used to cover
payments on credit cards and mortgages in case of illness or
unemployment. The British Bankers’ Association and its members
will decide in coming days whether to appeal, Hester said.  RBS said today the cost of following Lloyds and paying
compensation “could prove to be material.” It didn’t provide a
figure. The lender’s share of the PPI market was about a third
of Lloyds’s, according to Hester. RBS may pay about 1 billion
pounds in redress, said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Exane BNP
Paribas with a neutral rating on RBS.  RBS was the only British bank that used the government’s
Asset Protection Scheme during financial crisis to limit losses
from 282 billion pounds of its most toxic assets.  Under the program, any improvement in the perceived credit
quality of the assets costs RBS money. The bank logged a 469
million-pound APS charge in the first quarter, after a 1.1
billion-pound charge for 2010. The bank also pays a 700 million-
pound annual fee to the government for using the program.  ‘Accounting Noise’  RBS wants to exit the APS at the earliest possible moment,
Hester said today. The lender is unlikely to leave before 2012,
a person with knowledge of the talks said in January.  RBS also took a charge of 480 million pounds on the fair
value of its own debt, compared with a charge of 169 million
pounds in the first three months of 2010.  “Aside from the accounting noise, we see the results as
broadly in-line,” Gordon wrote in an e-mail today.  Bad loan provisions declined to 1.95 billion pounds, from
2.68 billion pounds, the company said. In Ireland, its  Ulster
Bank  had a loss of 377 million pounds as loan losses in the
division more than doubled to 461 million pounds. RBS said it
expected “high” impairments on its Irish assets to persist.  ‘Improving Trend’  “When you take away the quarterly volatility, and if you
draw a straight line through the results our next eight
quarters, I think you’ll see an improving trend at all levels,”
Hester said today.  The bank’s net interest margin, the difference between what
banks earns on loans and pays for its funding, improved 1 basis
point to 2.03 percent in the first quarter. Lloyds said
yesterday margins were narrowing.  The government may begin to sell its stakes in Lloyds and
RBS next year to create a one-time budget windfall before the
next election, four people familiar with the talks said in
March.  The figures “represent another step in the right direction
for RBS, with the bank moving towards the end game of surplus
capital being used to retire” the government’s stake, said
Gareth Hunt, a banking analyst at Investec Securities in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  