-- 
RBS 2008 Collapse Review, Wells Fargo Settles, Avon Probe: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-05-06T12:23:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/rbs-study-review-wells-fargo-settles-avon-probe-compliance.html
U.K. lawmakers and the  Financial
Services Authority  commissioned an independent review of the
agency’s report into the 2008 collapse of the  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   David Walker, former chairman of  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
International, and lawyer Bill Knight will examine the FSA’s
study, the regulator and the Treasury Committee of the House of
Commons said in separate statements. The FSA said it cleared RBS
and former executives including ex-Chief Executive Officer Fred
Goodwin after the report was completed in December.  The FSA has come under pressure from U.K lawmakers to
publish the findings of its probe. Edinburgh-based RBS posted
the largest loss in corporate history in 2008 and required the
biggest bank bailout in the world following its acquisition of
ABN Amro Holding NV.  The duo will ensure the report is “seen as a rigorous and
transparent account of the different factors which contributed
to RBS’s failure,” the FSA said in a statement on its website.  A spokeswoman for RBS wasn’t immediately available to
comment.  The FSA report won’t satisfy public demand for answers
because of confidentiality rules, lawyers say. The FSA can’t
reveal information obtained during an investigation without
permission from all parties involved under U.K. and European
financial rules, hampering the regulator’s attempts to publish a
definitive account.  The FSA had been scheduled to release the RBS report at the
end of March. A legal dispute over confidentiality had already
delayed publication, two people with knowledge of the
negotiations said last month.  “You can’t simply blank out the names, you have to step in
so it’s not clear which individual said what,” Lindsay Thomas,
a former FSA director and now an adviser at risk management
company Sustainable Risks, said in a telephone interview in
 London . “I suspect they’ve taken so much out of the report now
that people might question whether it’s a rather hollow
document.”  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Promises Stepped-Up Enforcement Under New Authority  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, flexing its
new authority under the financial-regulation overhaul, aims to
pursue more high-impact cases against market manipulation and
disruptive trading.  “The Dodd-Frank Act has broadened our horizons,” David
Meister, head of the agency’s enforcement division, said
yesterday at a conference held in  Maryland  by the  Futures
Industry Association . Meister said the division is interested in
“broader industry” and “more cutting-edge, high-impact
cases.”  The CFTC has proposed new rules targeting manipulative and
disruptive trading practices. Dodd-Frank, enacted last year,
gave the agency new authorities over the $583 trillion global
swaps market after largely unregulated trades helped fuel the
2008 credit crisis. The agency has proposed rules to reduce risk
in the market through central clearinghouses and to increase
transparency through exchanges or other trading platforms.  Meister started as the head of enforcement in January.  EU States May Opt Out of Short-Sale Curbs on Sovereign Debt  National regulators may be able to temporarily opt out of
planned European Union rules on naked short-selling under a
Hungarian compromise designed to lessen worries about bond-
market liquidity.  National officials at a meeting in Brussels yesterday said
the Hungarian measures “adequately” resolve concerns that
draft rules may prompt investors to shun government bond
markets, said Marton Hajdu, a spokesman for the country, which
holds the rotating EU presidency.  Finance ministers including Italy’s Giulio Tremonti
criticized the  European Commission ’s original September
proposals, saying they might disrupt sovereign debt markets by
reducing trading volume. Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial
services chief, and  Christine Lagarde , France’s finance
minister, have warned that the EU shouldn’t delay adoption of
the law, which is intended to prevent short-selling from harming
financial stability.  Under the Hungarian plan, regulators “would be able to
temporarily suspend the planned restrictions on naked short-
selling of sovereign debt, if the liquidity of that market has
fallen below a certain level,” Hajdu said in an e-mail.
“Details of how this will work will be determined at a later
stage.”  Governments and lawmakers in the European Parliament must
agree on the draft law before it can enter into force. EU
finance ministers are scheduled to discuss the short-selling
proposals in Brussels on May 17.  SEC Rules on Private Trading Targeted by U.S. House Panel  Lawmakers will press U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro to ease rules on trading of
shares in closely held firms such as Facebook Inc. and Twitter
Inc.  Schapiro, who has said the agency is in the early stages of
reviewing the rules, will testify next week at a hearing of the
U.S.  House Oversight and Government Reform Committee . Also
scheduled to appear is Barry Silbert, the founder and chief
executive officer of SecondMarket Inc., one of the firms that
facilitates the buying and selling of private shares.  Lawmakers and regulators focused on the business after
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  halted a planned offering of as much as
$1.5 billion in Facebook shares to U.S. investors. Goldman Sachs
said on Jan. 17 it halted the offer because of concern that
“immense media attention” could violate SEC rules limiting
marketing of private securities.  Compliance Action  Wells Fargo to Pay $1 Million Over Late Prospectuses  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  will pay $1 million to resolve Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority claims that its St. Louis-based
brokerage didn’t give investment information in a timely manner
to clients who bought mutual funds in 2009.  Wells Fargo Advisers violated securities laws by failing to
deliver prospectuses within three days of the purchases, Finra
said yesterday in a statement. The firm took as long as 153 days
to provide prospectuses and also failed to report information
including arbitrations and complaints involving some of its
representatives, Finra said.  The San Francisco-based company failed to take corrective
action after getting reports from a firm contracted to mail the
prospectuses that as many as 9 percent of customers hadn’t
received the information within three days, Finra said.  Wells Fargo, the fourth-biggest U.S. bank by assets,
resolved the claims without admitting or denying wrongdoing,
Washington-based Finra said.  “Wells Fargo Advisors has reached an agreed resolution
with Finra and is pleased to put this matter behind us,” Tony
Mattera, a company spokesman, said in the statement. “Wells
Fargo Advisors has taken steps to review and modify procedures
where appropriate.”  WestLB Boards Pursue Plan to Become Lender for Savings Banks  WestLB AG’s management and supervisory boards are pushing
ahead with a plan to shrink the company into a regionally
focused lender that serves savings banks as it seeks approval
from the  European Commission .  WestLB, which provides lending, structured and real-estate
finance, capital markets and transaction services, needed
financial aid from its owners and  Germany ’s Soffin bank-rescue
fund after running up losses during the financial crisis. The
lender needs the European Commission to accept restructuring
plans to get approval for the state aid.  The Dusseldorf-based lender, which has about 4,500
employees, must agree with the EU on the details of WestLB’s
proposal “in the coming weeks,” supervisory board Chairman
Michael Breuer said yesterday. The EU sees that the ongoing
sales process for the bank may help with the implementation of
the Verbundbank model, the bank said. Regional savings banks and
the state of North-Rhine Westphalia own WestLB.  Avon Says It Probes Possible Corruption After Firing Four  Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , the world’s largest door-to-door
cosmetics merchant, is probing possible corruption in other
countries after firing four executives over bribes to officials
in  China , it said in a regulatory filing.  The company suspended the four in April 2010 as part of an
internal investigation into its compliance with the U.S.  Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act .  Claudius O. Sokenu, a lawyer at Arnold & Porter LLP in  New
York , said May 4 in a phone interview that he is conducting the
internal investigation. He declined to comment further.  Avon said in a Feb. 24 SEC filing that it previously hired
outside counsel to conduct the internal probe and compliance
reviews. “The investigation is ongoing,” Jennifer Vargas, an
Avon spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. She
declined to comment further.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  For more, click here.  Errors in Credit Reports Rare, Study Funded By Industry Says  Less than 1 percent of consumer credit reports contain
errors that lead to a significant change in the score, according
to a study commissioned by the three largest credit-reporting
companies.  Durham, North Carolina-based  Policy and Economic Research
Council , which conducted the study, said it surveyed 2,338
people from February to May 2010 and examined their credit
reports. David Musto, a professor of finance at the Wharton
School of the University of Pennsylvania who was hired by the
council to review the examination, called it “a well-executed
study, in that the sample is large and appears to be
representative.”  The U.S. credit reporting business is dominated by  Equifax
Inc. (EFX)  of Atlanta, Chicago-based TransUnion LLC and Dublin-based
Experian Plc.  The  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau , which is
scheduled to begin work on July 21, will have jurisdiction over
consumer credit firms. Under the law that created it, the bureau
has to produce a study by then on the differences between
reports provided to creditors and those given to consumers who
are the subject of the reports.  Consumer groups have long criticized credit firms over
alleged errors in reports that lead to loan denials for affected
consumers.  For more, click here.  Courts  Picard’s $6.4 Billion JPMorgan Suit Goes to New Court  A U.S. judge granted JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s request to
decide whether the trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s firm has
the right to sue the bank for $6.4 billion, alleging it aided
the confidence man’s fraud.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in New York set a
briefing schedule for JPMorgan’s argument that the case should
be dismissed, saying she will write an opinion explaining her
decision, according to a court filing May 4. The bank will ask
her to dismiss the case next month.  JPMorgan “no doubt hopes to distance itself both from the
thousands of victims of that scheme and from other alleged
wrongdoers” by going to district court, trustee  Irving Picard 
said in a March court filing.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty to orchestrating the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history. He’s serving a 150-year sentence in
federal prison in  North Carolina .  The case is Picard v.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , 1:11-cv-00913,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Allen Stanford Indicted Again With 7 of 21 Charges Dropped  R. Allen Stanford, the Texas financier accused by U.S.
prosecutors of leading a $7 billion investor fraud scheme, was
indicted again and accused of 14 criminal counts-- seven fewer
counts than the 21 contained in the original indictment.  Prosecutors filed a revised charging document May 4 in U.S.
District Court in Houston. Stanford, who has denied all
allegations of wrongdoing, has been in federal custody since
June 2009 awaiting trial.  Stanford is accused of defrauding investors who bought
certificates of deposit issued by his Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd. by misleading them about the nature of
the investments and their regulatory oversight.  “The original indictment was such a mess, I think
prosecutors were just trying to clean up the charges,” Ali
Fazel, one of Stanford’s criminal-defense lawyers, said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Laura Sweeney, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to immediately comment on the revamped
indictment, citing a judicial gag order in the case.  Stanford’s trial, previously scheduled for Jan. 24, was
postponed pending the results of his treatment for drug
dependency.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  Interviews/Speeches  Bernanke Urges Avoiding ‘Burdensome’ Financial Regulations  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the
government must avoid imposing burdensome rules on financial
companies as it carries out the biggest regulatory overhaul in
seven decades.  “No one’s interests are served by the imposition of
ineffective or burdensome rules that lead to excessive increases
in costs or unnecessary restrictions in the supply of credit,”
Bernanke said yesterday in a speech in  Chicago . “Regulators
must aim to avoid stifling reasonable risk-taking and innovation
in financial markets, as these factors play an important role in
fostering broader productivity gains, economic growth, and job
creation.”  Bernanke and Fed officials are trying to balance the need
to reduce the risk of repeating the 2007-2008 financial crisis
with the aim of reviving the  U.S. economy  after the financial
crisis. The central bank, under last year’s Dodd-Frank Act, was
given the job of overseeing the biggest financial companies.  Bernanke, 57, has backed a so-called macroprudential
approach to supervision that looks at patterns and risks across
different companies and markets and not just at how individual
firms are performing.  For more, click here.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  U.K.’s Cable Names Witcomb to Chair Competition Commission  U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable named Roger Witcomb as
chair of the  Competition Commission  ahead of a planned merger
with the Office of Fair Trading.  Witcomb’s appointment is on an interim basis for a term of
two years, according to a website statement. He will succeed
current chair Peter Freeman, whose term ends today.  Cable said in the statement that Witcomb, previously the
deputy chair of the competition authority, would head the
commission through a “time of uncertainty.”  In its biggest shakeup of competition law since 1973, the
U.K. in October said it would merge the OFT and the  Competition
Commission  to create the Competition and Markets Authority. The
government is seeking comments on the agency combination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 