-- 
Treasury’s Top Tax Official Mundaca to Depart as Obama Considers Overhaul

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-05-06T22:19:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/treasury-s-top-tax-official-mundaca-to-depart-as-obama-considers-overhaul.html
Michael Mundaca, U.S. Treasury
Department’s top  tax-policy  official, will leave his job on May
13 as the Obama administration weighs when and how to press
forward with a corporate tax overhaul.  Mundaca, 47, has spearheaded the Treasury’s efforts to
develop and promote a plan to lower business tax rates and
broaden the corporate tax base. The administration has pledged
that any changes won’t affect overall revenue, and Mundaca said
that has remained the same in recent debates between Republicans
and Democrats on reducing the national debt.  “There is always an issue: Is reform a cover for raising
revenue?” Mundaca said in a telephone interview today. “The
point of this is reform, and it needs to be done in a revenue
neutral manner.”  The Obama administration’s call for rewriting the  tax code 
accompanies its proposal last month to cut $4 trillion from the
deficit over 12 years. The House in April passed a Republican
plan to cut spending by more than $6 trillion over a decade,
privatize Medicare and turn the Medicaid health-care plan for
the poor into a block-grant program.  Treasury officials haven’t decided whether to release a
report on tax alternatives, Mundaca said. The tax policy team
will work with the White House and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to review the alternatives and determine a strategy and
a timeline, he said.  ‘Next Step’  “What the next step is will be determined by what will
move the process forward best,” Mundaca said. “We will do what
it takes to try to get corporate reform in the best position to
be implemented quickly.”  Two Treasury officials will take over Mundaca’s role of
shepherding the tax-overhaul effort: Emily McMahon, deputy
assistant secretary for tax policy and Mark Mazur, deputy
assistant secretary for tax analysis.  Mundaca said he had planned to leave Treasury before the
end of 2010. He extended his stay to continue work on the Obama
administration’s 2012 budget plan and then extended it again to
work on the corporate tax overhaul proposal.  The tax official said he hasn’t begun to look for another
job and plans to take some time off to think about his next
move. He lives in  Washington  with his wife and two children,
ages 6 and 11.  ‘Natural Time’  “Now just seems a natural time to move on,” he said.  Mundaca started working on international tax policy at
Treasury under President  Bill Clinton  and left in 2002 to work
at Ernst & Young LLP in Washington. He returned to the
government in 2007 to work at the Treasury Department in the
administration of President  George W. Bush .  Mundaca was serving as assistant secretary under a
temporary appointment made by President  Barack Obama , and he
wasn’t confirmed by the Senate. A permanent replacement would
require Senate confirmation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  