-- 
Ten-Year Treasuries Snap Six-Day Gain Before Employment Report

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-05-06T11:29:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/treasuries-declines-after-kocherlakota-says-rate-increase-is-desirable-.html
Treasuries snapped a six-day gain
before a government report forecast to show U.S. employers added
more than 100,000 workers for the third-straight month in April.  Ten-year note yields were still headed for a fourth-weekly
decline as they rose from the lowest level in seven weeks.
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said yesterday that U.S. interest rate should rise
by around 50 basis points this year if core inflation increases.  “We’ve seen decent gains in Treasuries this week,” said
 David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in
London. “If payrolls fall short of consensus expectations we
may see the long-end rallying further. If we get an above-
expectations payrolls number,” Treasuries could pare their
recent advance, he said.  Ten-year yields increased less than one basis point to 3.16
percent at 7:23 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. It reached 3.15 percent yesterday, the lowest
level since March 17. The 3.625 percent note maturing in
February 2021 declined 2/32, or $0.62 per $1,000 face amount, to
103 27/32.  The  U.S. economy  isn’t slowing enough to justify a rally
that pushed 10-year yields down toward 3 percent, according to
 RBC Capital Markets , one of the 20 primary dealers authorized to
trade with the central bank.  Five-year yields rose one basis point to 1.89 percent,
trimming this week’s decline to eight basis points. Thirty-year
yields were two basis points higher at 4.28 percent, after
falling to 4.25 percent yesterday, the lowest this year. Two-
year yields were up one basis point at 0.59 percent.  Job Gains  Employers added 185,000 jobs in April after an increase of
216,000 the previous month, according to the median forecast of
86 economists in a Bloomberg News survey before today’s Labor
Department report. In February, employers added 194,000 jobs.
The  unemployment rate  is expected to remain at 8.8 percent, a
separate survey shows.  The labor data “will be a key driver for the market later
on. Any low figure would probably lead to more nervousness about
the U.S. economic outlook,” supporting Treasuries, said
 Kornelius Purps , an interest-rate strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Munich. “Yields are extremely low.”  U.S. central bankers are considering when and how to
withdraw record stimulus after reducing their forecasts for
growth and raising inflation estimates. The policy-setting
 Federal Open Market Committee  has kept its target for overnight
bank lending, the so-called federal funds rate, in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 to foster growth.  Debt Ceiling  “Under my baseline forecast, it would be desirable for the
FOMC to raise the fed funds target interest rate by a modest
amount toward the end of 2011,” Kocherlakota, who votes on
monetary policy this year, said in a speech yesterday in  Santa
Barbara ,  California .  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the U.S.
can borrow until Aug. 2 after reaching the $14.29 trillion debt
limit this month. President  Barack Obama  has offered outlines of
a plan to reduce the growth of the debt by $4 trillion over 12
years through a combination of spending cuts and tax increases.  China , the biggest foreign holder of  Treasury securities ,
is closely watching the debate over raising the U.S. debt
ceiling and wants the Obama administration to do more to curb
the deficit, Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said today.  Pimco Sees Threat  “We are paying close attention to the domestic discussion
in the U.S. on debt and deficits,” Zhu told reporters in
Beijing. “We hope the U.S. can take effective measures toward
fiscal reorganization just as President Obama suggested.”  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in his monthly
investment outlook this week that a federal funds target at
virtually zero poses a threat to bondholders amid quickening
inflation and negative real yields.  Gross bet against U.S. government-related debt in March and
boosted cash to be the largest of the company’s $241 billion
Total Return Fund holdings.  The real 10-year yield, or the difference between the
 consumer price index  and the Treasury rate, declined to 0.45
percent yesterday, the least since 2008. Based on two-year
Treasuries, the real yield is negative 2.11 percent.  Treasuries headed for their longest run of weekly gains in
six months as commodity prices tumbled before the jobs report.  Inflation Bets  “The rally has further to go,” said Hiromasa Nakamura,
who helps oversee the equivalent of $37.4 billion as a senior
investor in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Asset Management Co., a unit of
 Japan ’s second-largest bank. “There is a flight to quality in
U.S. Treasuries.” Mizuho increased its Treasury holdings at the
beginning of April, Nakamura said.  Yields indicate investors are cutting bets on inflation.  The difference between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, shrank to as
narrow as 2.4 percentage points today, the least in six weeks.
The 10-year average is 2.10 percentage points.  Silver for July delivery tumbled 28 percent this week. Gold
and oil also fell.  The spread between two- and 10-year yields narrowed to 2.57
percentage points yesterday, the least in almost five months.
The difference between the Fed’s target for overnight loans and
30-year yields shrank to 4 percentage points, also the least
since December. Shorter maturities tend to track the central
bank’s target for overnight lending. Yields on longer-term bonds
are more influenced by inflation.  Treasuries have returned 1.9 percent in the past month as
of yesterday, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The
MSCI All Country World Index of stocks handed investors a 0.7
percent gain.  The Fed is buying $600 billion of Treasuries in a program
that it started in November and plans to end in June, part of
its efforts to spur the recovery. The central bank plans to
scoop up $5 billion to $7 billion of debt maturing from November
2013 to April 2015 today, according to its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 