-- 
Republicans Press Warren, Geithner on CFPB Mortgage-Talks Role

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-05-06T20:44:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/republicans-press-warren-geithner-on-cfpb-mortgage-talks-role.html
U.S. House Republicans are pressing
the Obama administration for more information on the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau’s role in mortgage-servicing
settlement talks between regulators and state  attorneys general .  Representatives Scott Garrett of New Jersey and Randy Neugebauer of Texas requested any documents, analysis and
communications from the bureau “referring or relating to the
mortgage servicing settlement negotiations” in a letter sent
today to administration officials including Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner and Elizabeth Warren, the adviser assigned
to set up the consumer bureau.  “The settlement approach being pursued -- which ignores
Congressional prerogatives and bypasses the legislative process
-- is unwise policy and potentially unlawful,” the lawmakers
said in the letter, which also was signed by Representatives
Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia and Patrick McHenry of
 North Carolina . Garrett, Neugebauer and Capito are chairmen of
House Financial Services subcommittees.  Republicans have criticized and questioned the bureau and
Warren for their roles in providing analysis stating that
mortgage servicers including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  may have jointly avoided more than $20 billion in
costs on collections and foreclosures.  The bureau provided the analysis in a Feb. 14 presentation
to state attorneys general led by Iowa’s Tom Miller, who are
pressing banks to accept fines and make concessions after a
probe of foreclosure practices. A $5 billion penalty would be
“too low,” and banks can afford more, the agency told the
state officials.  “We have concerns about the potential terms of the
servicing settlement because, among other things, we believe
that a $20 billion principal reduction fund will create
incentives to default that could worsen the housing crisis and
impede economic recovery,” the lawmakers wrote in the letter,
which that also was sent to U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder 
and Robert Bauer, the White House counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  