-- 
Restaurants Lift Prices as Inflation Hawks See Fed Lagging the Curve

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-05-06T15:06:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/restaurants-raising-prices-in-trend-inflation-hawks-cite-to-criticize-fed.html
Dining out will cost more this year as
U.S. restaurants take advantage of the nearly two-year long
expansion to boost prices on food and drinks.  Higher-priced menus reflect growing confidence by eateries
that consumers can afford to pay more to eat out. Restaurants
are emboldened in part by the success of U.S. airlines, which
have raised fares almost 10 percent since a year ago, according
to  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at  Barclays Capital  in New
York.  “The fact that the  airline industry  was able to pass along
cost increases signals that the pricing environment has become
somewhat more favorable than it was during the heart of the
recession,” Maki said. “It’s more likely restaurants will be
able to pass along price increases now relative to the last few
years.”  Higher food and fuel costs are spurring menu changes, which
are reflected in the food-services category of the personal-
consumption-expenditures price index. Purchased meals and
beverages, which make up about 6 percent of core PCE, rose
nearly 2 percent in March from a year ago, the biggest increase
since November 2009, according to data from the  Bureau of
Economic Analysis  in  Washington .  Several apparel companies -- including San Francisco-based
Levi Strauss & Co., which supplies jeans to retailers in more
than 110 countries -- also have announced increases to offset
higher costs for cotton, foreign wages and freight. With
imported-clothing prices rising at the fastest rate in at least
a decade, retailers stand a better chance of exerting pricing
power, Maki said.  Pressure on the Fed  All this puts pressure on the  Federal Reserve  to prevent
inflation from getting out of hand, said Samer Nsouli, chief
investment officer in New York for the Lyford Global Macro Fund.  “Inflation hawks see restaurants and airlines passing
through higher prices and say the Fed’s behind the curve,”
Nsouli said. “The Fed’s not paying enough attention to such
trends when it comes to its continued accommodative monetary
policy.”  The central bank’s  Federal Open Market Committee  said it
“will pay close attention to the evolution of inflation” in
the statement for its April 27 meeting, when it kept the target
for the federal funds rate, or overnight inter-bank lending
rate, at zero to 0.25 percent. It first set the rate at the
record low in December 2008. The Fed also reaffirmed at the
April meeting its plan to complete a $600 billion Treasury
purchase program by June.  ‘Transitory’ Threat  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his chief deputies on the
FOMC -- Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and  New York  Fed
President William C. Dudley -- have said in recent speeches that
the committee’s leadership believes the threat from accelerating
prices will prove “transitory.” Even so, policy makers have
been bumping up their forecast for 2011  core inflation , which
excludes food and fuel. The  April projection  is about 1.5
percent, compared with about 1.2 percent in January.  Restaurants have projected menu increases of 1.8 percent
during the next six months, the most in a year, according to
research by  RBC Capital Markets . The amount depends on the type
of food they serve, said  Larry Miller , an RBC analyst in
Atlanta. In the same period, the companies are forecasting a
rise of at least 3.2 percent in their commodity costs, the
research showed.  Rising Unemployment  The industry’s ability to pass along higher input costs
depends on diners’ ability to pay more. The  unemployment rate 
rose to 9 percent in April after dropping to 8.8 percent in
March, still below a post-recession peak of 10.1 percent in
October 2009. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus
46.2 in the week ended May 1, the second consecutive weekly
decline.  Customer traffic still has improved from last year and
“trends have been decent in terms of demand, so restaurants
have a little more confidence to raise prices,” Miller said.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Restaurants Index,
which includes  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , The  Cheesecake Factory Inc. (CAKE)  and
25 other companies, has risen by 43 percent since December 31,
2007, while the  S&P 500 Index  has declined by 8 percent.  McDonald’s boosted menu prices in the U.S. by 1 percent in
March, Chief Financial Officer Peter Bensen said on an April 21
conference call. The  Oak Brook , Illinois-based fast-food chain
had resisted such a move since 2009, said Miller, who upgraded
McDonald’s stock in January to “outperform” from “sector
perform.”  ‘Inflationary Environment’  “Our upgrade was driven by the belief that fast-food
models, like McDonald’s, thrive in a modest inflationary
environment and that they would be able to successfully
implement price increases in 2011,” Miller said.  BJ’s Restaurants Inc. (BJRI)  expects to boost menu prices for the
full year by about 3 percent to offset rising food and energy
costs, Chief Executive Officer Gerald Deitchle said on an April
20 conference call. Like McDonald’s, the  Huntington Beach ,
Calfornia-based company didn’t raise prices the past few years
at its namesake brewery, pizza and grill chains, Deitchle said.  Cheesecake Factory, based in Calabasas Hills,  California ,
is monitoring input costs after rolling out a 0.7 percent rise
at its 150 casual-dining restaurants earlier this year, Chief
Financial Officer Douglas Benn said on an April 20 conference
call. The company currently projects a further boost of at least
1.4 percent later this year, he said.  “We will implement a higher level of menu-price increases
in our upcoming summer menu change if commodity-cost pressures
continue at the current level,” Benn said.  Food Quality  Cheesecake Factory, BJ’s and McDonald’s are among a group
of “haves,” according to Steve West, an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in  St. Louis . These are restaurants that can push
through moderate price changes, though they likely won’t be
menu-wide, West said. He includes  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  in
this group because it has focused on improving food quality and
the customer experience during the recession.  “If anyone has pricing power, it’s Chipotle,” said West,
who maintains a “buy” rating on the stock.  The Denver-based burrito chain, which McDonald’s spun off
in 2006, will wait to raise prices until the third quarter,
allowing it time to “see the magnitude and timing of inflation
and assess the customer reaction to price increases at other
restaurants,” Chief Financial Officer John Hartung said on an
April 20 conference call.  The restaurant industry will serve as a test of the retail
sector’s pricing power, Maki said.  ‘Stronger Position’  “Consumers are in a stronger position now because their
labor income has been improving, but the surge in gasoline
prices has moderated the recent growth in their purchasing
power,” Maki said.  For Yum! Brands Inc. -- the Louisville, Kentucky-based
owner of KFC,  Pizza Hut  and Taco Bell fast-food chains --
potential price changes in this environment are a balancing act,
Chief Financial Officer Richard Carucci said on an April 21
conference call.  “When you have inflation and our sales are soft, you have
to play it pretty smartly,” Carucci said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  