-- 
Tribune Names Hartenstein Chief Executive Officer

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-05-06T17:17:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/tribune-names-eddy-hartenstein-as-president-chief-executive-of-publisher.html
Tribune Co. dissolved the four-person
council that shared executive duties at the bankrupt newspaper
company and named Los Angeles Times publisher Eddy Hartenstein
chief executive officer.  Hartenstein, 60, is a former Hughes Electronics Corp. vice
chairman and former CEO of DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite-
television provider.  “The board feels strongly that it is in Tribune’s best
interests to have one person providing strategic vision and day-
to-day direction for the company and its employees as we prepare
to emerge from the Chapter 11 process,” Tribune Chairman  Sam Zell  said in a statement.  Tribune is near the end of a battle with its lowest-ranking
creditors over how to reorganize the media company, which owns
the Los Angeles Times, the  Chicago Tribune , television and radio
stations and stakes in cable channels.  Hartenstein’s job isn’t guaranteed to last beyond the
company’s exit from bankruptcy. Under two competing
reorganization plans, a new board would be appointed with the
ability to replace him.  The main dispute over which plan to approve involves the
way to resolve allegations that the 2007 buyout led by Zell, was
a fraud on creditors. Noteholders, led by hedge fund Aurelius
Capital Management LP, want to sue lenders that funded the $8
billion leveraged buyout.  JPMorgan Settlement  Tribune backs a plan that would settle the main lawsuits
against the lenders, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and allow
claims against Zell to go forward. Zell and the lenders have
denied wrongdoing in papers filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey is set to hear closing
arguments about the two plans next month.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
Or  schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 