-- 
Trichet Says ECB Monitoring All Developments ‘Very Closely’

-- B y   D a v i d   T w e e d   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-05-06T09:59:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/trichet-says-ecb-monitoring-all-developments-very-closely-.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet comments on monetary policy, a drop in crude oil
prices and the euro region’s economic recovery.  He spoke in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
Helsinki today.  On whether he’s concerned about negative real rates:  “As you know, we have of course a primary goal, which is
to deliver  price stability  in the medium run and be credible in
this delivery of price stability. It’s what we’ve been doing
over the past 12 years. We will continue to do that. We always
take our decision to deliver price stability, taking all into
account, all the elements that we have. We increased rates last
month and this month we maintained rates at the present level,
remaining extremely alert, monitoring very closely all that will
happen. We will have a new rendezvous with our new projections
next month.”  On setting  interest rates :  “We are never pre-committed and we always do what’s
necessary in the judgement of the governing council. We’re
living in a world which is very demanding and where we might
have new data, new information, new events that might come. We
have to remain faithful to our mandate. Everybody knows that
we’re taking the decisions that are necessary to deliver price
stability. These are not words, these are deeds because we can
prove it. We’re a very simple and transparent central bank.”  On a drop in crude  oil prices :  “I never myself comment on market evolution on an hour-to-
hour basis, we need to have a sense of what’s going on with a
little bit more time of course. Of course all what goes in the
direction of a lower price of oil and commodity is good to take
from the inflation standpoint, because it diminishes of course
the risks of second round effects that are our main concern and
it’s also important because it’s better for the consolidation of
the recovery in particular in the advanced economy.”  On the euro-region recovery:  “We have to remain very prudent. This is no time for
complacency. It’s true that since the start of the recovery,
which came in the third quarter of 2009, we have seen quarter
after quarter I would say projections which were slightly better
than the projections we had before. This is the confirmation
that we have an ongoing recovery. That’s something that’s of
course positive in the present circumstances. I’m convinced that
the first quarter for the euro area for the real economy will
continue to confirm that a recovery is there.”  “It’s a recovery which we observe now on practically all
components.”  On parties like the True Finns opposing bailouts:  “The unity of the European Union is more important than
ever, that’s absolutely clear.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Helsinki at  cvits@bloomberg.net ;
David Tweed in Helsinki at  dtweed@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  