-- 
Trichet Says ECB Is ‘Extremely Alert’ on Inflation Ahead of June Forecasts

-- B y   D a v i d   T w e e d   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-05-06T10:38:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/trichet-says-ecb-is-extremely-alert-on-inflation-ahead-of-june-forecasts.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet said policy makers remain “extremely alert” on
inflation, and indicated they may make further decisions on the
pace of monetary tightening with new forecasts in June.  The ECB is “monitoring very closely all that will happen”
after keeping its benchmark interest rate at 1.25 percent
yesterday, Trichet told Bloomberg Television in an interview in
Helsinki today. “We will of course have a new rendezvous with
our new projections next month.”  ECB council members including  Italy ’s  Mario Draghi , seen as
the frontrunner to replace Trichet from November, have signaled
concern that rising oil prices will feed into wage demands and
spark more persistent inflation. Trichet yesterday refrained
from using the phrase “strong vigilance” that would have paved
the way for a June rate increase, suggesting policy makers are
waiting for the latest economic projections.  “Extremely alert is quite hawkish and the reference to the
projections is a very important one as well,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief euro-area economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc in  London . “The question is whether they’re keeping the
door open to a rate hike as early as June.”  Faster Inflation  The euro rose a quarter of a cent after Trichet’s comments
were published before easing to $1.4527 at 12:35 p.m. in
 Frankfurt .  The ECB raised its key rate from a record low of 1 percent
in April, the first increase in almost three years.  “We increased rates last month and this month we
maintained rates at the present level, remaining extremely
alert,” Trichet said. “We have of course a primary goal, which
is to deliver  price stability  in the medium run and be credible
in this delivery of price stability. We will continue to do
that.”  Euro-region inflation accelerated to 2.8 percent last
month, the fastest in 2 1/2 years. The ECB aims to keep the rate
just below 2 percent.  Trichet welcomed the recent drop in crude oil prices to
below $100 a barrel, saying it’s “good from the inflation
standpoint.” Lower  oil prices  are also “better for the
consolidation of the recovery, in particular in the advanced
economies,” he said.  Policy Dilemma  Policy makers are facing the dilemma of surging commodity
costs fueling price pressures while governments from Ireland to
 Spain  are struggling to lower their budget deficits and revive
economic growth.  In its last projections published in March, the ECB
forecast the euro-area economy will grow 1.7 percent this year
and 1.8 percent in 2012. Inflation will average 2.3 percent this
year and 1.7 percent next year, the bank predicted.  The 17-member euro region is showing an “ongoing
recovery,” which is “positive in the present circumstances,”
Trichet said.  Societe Generale SA economist  James Nixon  said in an e-
mailed note after yesterday’s rate decision that he expects the
ECB to resume raising borrowing costs in July, a month later
than previously projected. The central bank may also increase
rates in October and January, he said.  Trichet will retire on Oct. 31 after serving an eight-year
term at the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Frankfurt at  smeier@bloomberg.net ;
David Tweed in Helsinki at  dtweed@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  