-- 
Rolls-Royce ‘Not Abdicated’ From Narrowbody Airliners, CEO Says

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-05-06T14:06:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/rolls-royce-not-abdicated-from-narrowbody-airliners-ceo-says.html
Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) ’s decision to
opt out of developing a power plant for Airbus SAS’s A320neo
series reflects a bet that airlines will buy new planes rather
than upgrading engines on existing models, Chief Executive
Officer John Rishton told shareholders today.  “Very generally, re-engined aircraft are not particularly
the thing they look for, they would like a new aircraft,”
Rishton said. The company has “certainly not abdicated” from
the narrowbody airliner market, he said.  There’s “not a strong business case” for taking part in
the A320neo project, Rishton said. The CEO fielded questions
from shareholders on the matter at an annual meeting in London
today.  The 100-year-old company is banking on Airbus and U.S.
rival Boeing Co. developing new aircraft.  Pratt & Whitney ’s
PW1100G engine will be the lead powerplant for the A320neo
series, with entry into service scheduled for October 2015,
Airbus said on April 6. Another option is the LeapX engine made
by  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Safran SA.  Chairman Simon Robertson defended Rolls-Royce’s
communication efforts in the wake of the disintegration of the
Trent 900 engine on a Qantas Airways Ltd. flight in November.
The company faced criticism about the speed of its public
response at the time of the accident.  “I think we took the right view. When dealing with safety,
we must be absolutely accurate,” Robertson said. “We have to
give the right information, and I think we did that. We got
people to work on the problem from the second we knew about
it.”  The blown engine on the Qantas flight forced the airline to
temporarily ground its A380 fleet, and manufacturer Airbus had
to take some new engines off the assembly line to swap for
faulty ones.  “We applied all the resources we could to find out what
went wrong,” said Robertson, who is also deputy chairman of
HSBC Holdings Plc.  Uncontained engine failures, of the type the Qantas A380
suffered, happen annually, Rishton said. Rolls-Royce’s last
failure, where parts spewed from the sides of the engine casing,
was in 1994, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  