-- 
Russia, Poland Boost Investment Inflows, FDI Intelligence Says

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-05-06T15:01:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/russia-poland-boost-investment-inflows-fdi-intelligence-says.html
Russia and  Poland  are becoming the
fastest-growing European investment destinations as western
 Europe  remains in the grip of the credit crisis, FDI
Intelligence said.  While western Europe’s share in global foreign direct
investment declined last year, the continent’s emerging nations
increased their slice, attracting $88.9 billion, FDI
Intelligence, which tracks investment flows, said in a report
today.  North America  and eastern Europe were the world’s only
region with growth in the number of projects, it said  "For FDI growth in Europe, the countries in the east, such
as Russia and Poland, are the continent’s big story," according
to the report. "FDI levels across the region started to
recover."  The former communist countries of Europe and central  Asia 
are recovering from their deepest recessions since the
transition to free-market policies two decades ago.  The  International Monetary Fund  expects the region’s
economies to expand 3.7 percent this year. That compares with
1.6 percent for the euro region, where the sovereign-debt crisis
has forced Greece, Ireland and Portugal to accept international
bailouts.  The number of foreign-direct investment projects in eastern
Europe, including the expansion of existing facilities and newly
created businesses, increased 23 percent last year to 1,662, the
FDI Intelligence report showed. The biggest chunk of the money
went into financial services, led by Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the
largest bank in emerging Europe.  Russia’s Rank  The region accounted for 14 percent of FDI projects
worldwide, compared with 11 percent in 2009. West European
projects dropped by 15 percent to 2,514.  Russia remained the No.1 target country for investment
directed into emerging Europe and ranked sixth worldwide, behind
the U.S.,  China , the U.K., India and Germany.  Poland had the largest increase in investment in the
region, at 34 percent, when the number of projects as well as
their value is combined, according to the report.  Eastern Europe is also gaining in importance as a source of
FDI. It became the fourth largest region for outward investment
last year with $30.4 billion, overtaking the Middle East.
Investments directed elsewhere grew 17 percent, the only region
to register an increase, FDI Intelligence said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  