-- 
Grassley Asks Finra’s Ketchum for SAC Capital Suspicious-Trade Information

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-05-06T20:03:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/sac-capital-data-is-sought-by-senator-grassley-amid-u-s-s-insider-probe.html
U.S. Senator  Charles Grassley  asked
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority to provide
information on the “potential scope of suspicious trading
activity” at SAC Capital Advisors LP, the hedge-fund firm
founded by billionaire  Steven A. Cohen .  Grassley asked Finra Chairman Richard Ketchum for copies of
all referrals related to SAC Capital sent to the brokerage
regulator since January 2000, according to an April 26 letter
obtained by Bloomberg News today. The senator asked Ketchum to
respond by May 10.  SAC Capital, which has about $13 billion under management,
has come under scrutiny in an insider-trading probe that has
ensnared  hedge funds , corporate executives and so-called expert
networking firms. U.S. prosecutors are investigating accounts at
the Stamford, Connecticut-based hedge fund tied to Noah Freeman
and Donald Longueuil, former portfolio managers who pleaded
guilty to federal insider-trading allegations.  “While SAC Capital itself has not been charged, these
allegations raise serious questions about the corporate culture
at SAC Capital and undercut investor confidence in a fair and
balanced playing field,” said Grassley, the top Republican on
the Senate Judiciary Committee.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment. He previously
said the firm was cooperating with prosecutors and “outraged”
at the actions of Freeman and Longueuil. Michelle Ong, a Finra
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Pequot Probe  Grassley’s interest in insider-trading allegations goes
back to at least 2006, when as chairman of the Senate Finance
Committee, he criticized the Securities and Exchange Commission
for allowing top executives to remain insulated from a probe
involving Pequot Capital Management Inc.  His interest in that case was fueled by former SEC attorney
Gary Aguirre, who said supervisors stymied the investigation. In
May 2010, three years after Grassley called on the SEC to reopen
the investigation, Pequot and its founder Arthur Samberg agreed
to pay almost $28 million to settle SEC claims.  In a May 2009 letter, Samberg told investors he planned to
liquidate what was once the world’s largest hedge fund after the
insider-trading investigation “cast a cloud” over the firm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  