-- 
Independence Party Gains Scottish Parliament Majority in Blow to Cameron

-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 
2011-05-06T18:14:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/salmond-heads-for-second-term-in-scotland-as-voters-shun-labour.html
First Minister  Alex Salmond ’s pro-
independence party won an unprecedented majority in elections to
the Scottish Parliament, handing him a second term and a mandate
to push for greater autonomy for Scotland.  British Prime Minister  David Cameron  vowed to defend the
U.K. from potential breakup even as he congratulated Salmond on
an “emphatic win” in yesterday’s vote. Salmond’s  Scottish
National Party  crossed the 65-seat threshold for the first
overall majority since the 129-member parliament in Edinburgh
was established in 1999.  “It’s pretty spectacular, little short of a revolution,”
 John Curtice , a professor of politics at Strathclyde University
in Glasgow, said by phone today. “It leaves whoever is running
the U.K. government with an unpleasant headache.”  Victory for a resurgent SNP raises the prospect of
constitutional upheaval, posing a further challenge to Cameron’s
coalition in London as it makes the deepest U.K. budget cuts
since World War II. Salmond, 56, has said he will bring in an
independence referendum in the second half of a five-year term.  Cameron pledged to “treat the Scottish people and the
Scottish government with the respect they deserve,” he told
reporters in London today. “But on the issue of the  United
Kingdom , if they want to hold a referendum, I will campaign to
keep our United Kingdom together with every fiber that I have.”  ‘Done No Harm’  Polls before the election suggested that support for the
SNP hasn’t translated into a greater appetite for Scotland to
become independent from the U.K. In a YouGov Plc poll conducted
on April 26-29, 57 percent of respondents said that they
rejected independence, while 28 percent said they were in favor.  “There is a big difference between electing someone to run
the country competently and independence,” said Colin McLean,
chief executive officer of Edinburgh-based SVM Asset Management
Ltd. “A lot of businesses are happy with their record.
Certainly they have done no harm to the Scottish economy.”  The SNP capitalized on its four-year record in office to
complete the rout of Labour that it began at the last Scottish
election in 2007, when it ended a half-century of Labour
domination north of the border.  “I will be speaking with the prime minister, laying down
markers for what this mandate means in terms of  Scotland ’s
relationship with the United Kingdom,” Salmond said in his
victory speech in the grounds of an Edinburgh hotel after
arriving by helicopter. “I believe this is a victory for a
society, a people, a nation.”  Labour Crumbles  Iain Gray, Labour’s leader in Scotland, held off an SNP
challenge in his Edinburgh district by just 151 votes. After
witnessing a margin of support as wide as 16 percentage points
crumble as the SNP gathered momentum in the months before the
vote, he said he planned to step down later this year.  Labour’s finance spokesman, Andy Kerr, was among four
former ministers to lose out to the SNP, while the Nationalists
also wrested overall control of Glasgow, Scotland’s biggest
city, for the first time.  “I have decided to stay on until the autumn as we conduct
a fundamental and radical reappraisal of the structure and
direction of Scottish Labour,” Gray, 53, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The Scottish electorate has spoken and given a
clear result which the  Labour Party  acknowledges.”  ‘Unprecedented’  Eating into traditional Labour territory, the SNP also
picked up seats from Cameron’s Conservatives and the Liberal
Democrats, his U.K. coalition partners, in a result Curtice said
was “utterly unprecedented.”  David McLetchie, the former leader of the  Conservative
Party  in Scotland, lost his district to the SNP candidate,
though the  BBC  reported he will re-enter parliament from the
regional list. Annabel Goldie, the present leader, was also re-
elected based on the overall number of votes for the party.  The Nationalists won 69 seats, an increase of 23 based on
the redrawing of some constituencies, to 37 for Labour, a drop
of seven on that basis from 2007. The Conservatives took 15
seats, the Liberal Democrats five and the Greens two, with one
independent, according to results after all votes were counted.  The  Parliament  was re-established in 1999 by the Labour
government of Prime Minister  Tony Blair  after a near 300-year
hiatus following the formation of the U.K. in 1707. The first
two administrations were coalitions of Labour and the Liberal
Democrats before Salmond’s minority government.  The legislature, with 73 electoral districts and 56
regional seats, has power over policy areas including education,
health and justice, with foreign and defense policy plus broader
economic matters controlled by ministers at Westminster in
 London . A Scotland Bill currently going through the U.K.
Parliament includes measures for Scotland to raise more of its
own revenue and gain borrowing powers.  Deficit Backlash  Local elections also took place yesterday across  England 
and assembly voting in  Wales  and  Northern Ireland  as the
coalition faced the first test of its program to eliminate the
bulk of the  budget deficit  in five years. The Liberal Democrats
bore the brunt of voter anger over the spending cuts, with
Labour picking up hundreds of seats.  In Scotland, many of the campaign clashes between Salmond
and Labour’s Gray, focused on who could better defend public
services in the face of the cuts.  The next parliament will run for five years instead of four
to avoid clashing with Westminster elections in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  