-- 
San Diego Mayor Announces ‘Quantum Leap’ on Retiree Health care

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-05-06T18:31:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/san-diego-union-accord-on-retiree-health-is-quantum-leap-mayor-says.html
Most  San Diego  city employees would
pay toward their retirement health-care costs for the first time
under an agreement with unions that will save $714 million over
25 years, Mayor Jerry Sanders said.  The tentative accord, which still must be ratified by union
members, involves all city workers except for police, with whom
discussions are continuing, Alex Roth, a spokesman for the
mayor, said today.  America’s eighth-largest city, with 1.3 million people,
faces a $56.7 million deficit for the fiscal year beginning July
1. The mayor proposed filling that in part by cutting in half
the hours that libraries and recreation centers are open.  “This settlement isn’t just a big step, it’s a quantum
leap,” Sanders, a 60-year-old Republican, said in a statement.
“It provides record savings to our taxpayers and means we’ll be
able to put more of their dollars to work on police, fire,
street repairs, parks and libraries.”  The city had already eliminated health-care benefits in
retirement for workers hired after 2005, so the agreement to
contribute involves employees who joined before then. They
currently pay nothing toward their retiree health-care costs.  Michael Zucchet, general manager of the 4,000-member San
Diego Municipal Employees Association, said he expects the
agreement to be ratified in a May 18 vote because it assures
employees that their health-care benefit will be maintained.  “What’s in it for us is some security in the form of a 15-
year contract and commitment by the city to actually fund the
benefits,” Zucchet said today in a telephone interview. “The
alternative is to go to court and fight for two to three
years.”  Choice of Plans  The agreement would give employees a choice of plans in
exchange for contributions of as much as $100 a month, Zucchet
said. Carl DeMaio, a Republican on the City Council, said he
opposed the agreement because it vests a benefit that is
presently not guaranteed and still leaves the city exposed to
rising health-care costs, according to a statement.  “Just when you thought bad pension deals were a thing of
the past at City Hall, along comes this unprecedented 15-year
binding contract that guarantees lifelong taxpayer-funded health
benefits to city employees that are far in excess of private-
sector benchmarks,” DeMaio said.  San Diego earned the nickname “Enron by the Sea” for a
pension-fund scandal that led to the resignation of a previous
mayor and a half-dozen city officials. The San Diego City
Employees’ Retirement System listed an unfunded  liability  of
$2.1 billion as of June 30.  The city faces an unfunded liability in its retiree health-
care costs of $1.1 billion, the mayor said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Christopher Palmeri in
 Los Angeles  at   cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  