-- 
Sanofi Isn’t Interested in Buying Glaxo’s Alli, CEO Says

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-05-06T20:22:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/sanofi-isn-t-interested-in-buying-glaxo-s-alli-ceo-says.html
Sanofi isn’t interested in buying
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Alli diet pill, Chief Executive Officer
Chris Viehbacher said today in an interview.  “We’re definitely not buying Alli,” Viehbacher said after
Sanofi’s annual investor meeting in Paris. He declined to
comment on whether Sanofi may buy other consumer health-care
assets being sold by London-based Glaxo.  Glaxo last month said Alli and Lactacyd soap are among 19
consumer health-care assets the U.K. drugmaker plans to sell
this year as it focuses the unit on “priority brands” such as
Sensodyne toothpaste. French daily  Les Echos  reported April 29
that Paris-based Sanofi was studying a possible purchase of Alli
and of Glaxo’s Valda cough drops.  Alli contains  orlistat , a chemical that blocks the
intestines from absorbing fat when taken as many as three times
a day with meals. Orlistat has been linked to reports of liver
injury, prompting consumer advocacy groups to demand its removal
from the market. The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  announced
new warnings on the pill’s label last year.  Sanofi has been growing in businesses such as consumer
health-care products to reduce its reliance on best-selling
drugs such as the Plavix and Lovenox blood thinners, which are
facing generic competitions. Viehbacher reiterated to
shareholders today that the search for new blockbusters “isn’t
a goal” for Sanofi. Instead, the 51-year-old CEO said he wants
to continue to increase businesses such as consumer and animal
health care, which provide a more “sustainable” revenue base.  Bought Genzyme  Last month, the company completed the acquisition of
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme Corp., the largest maker
of medicines for rare genetic disorders, to gain innovative
drugs that aren’t likely to face generic copies.  In coming months, Sanofi’s “priority” will be to
integrate Genzyme and the Merial animal health unit, though it
may make acquisitions of the kind it did before Genzyme,
Viehbacher said.  Sanofi continues looking for purchases in emerging markets,
he told shareholders. Beside acquisitions, share buybacks also
will be “an option going forward, whereas two years ago, they
didn’t make sense,” Viehbacher said during the interview.  Sanofi shareholders today approved the decision to shorten
the company’s name to Sanofi from  Sanofi-Aventis SA. (SAN)   France ’s
largest drugmaker also presented its new logo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Rhinds at 
 srhinds@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  