-- 
Sasol Names Fluor’s Constable as CEO in First Hiring of Outside Candidate

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-05-06T15:38:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/sasol-names-david-constable-as-chief-executive-designate-replacing-davies.html
Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the largest maker of motor
fuels from coal, appointed  Fluor Corp. (FLR) ’s David E. Constable as
chief executive officer, the first time it has gone outside the
company to fill the position.  Constable starts in the role on July 1, arriving from the
largest publicly traded U.S. construction company. Pat Davies,
who headed Sasol for almost six years, will retire on June 30,
the Johannesburg-based company said in a statement today.  The new CEO, who was group president of operations at
Fluor, is an engineer with 30 years of experience in heavy
industry, operations and construction and has spent time in the
power, energy and chemicals industries.  “He has proven technical, operational and commercial
skills as well as a sound track record in diversity,” Hixonia
Nyasulu, Sasol’s chairman, said in the statement.  Some state officials and groups including Public Investment
Corp., the government pension fund, voiced concern when Davies
became CEO in 2005, preferring to see a black South African take
the position. Sasol was founded during apartheid to secure fuel
supplies for the country amid international trade sanctions.  The South African government is pushing companies to boost
participation by black people in management and ownership to
help make good for their economic exclusion under apartheid.  Davies extended a world expansion begun by his predecessor
Pieter Cox, starting a coal-to-fuels project in  China  and shale
gas developments through acquisitions in  Canada  this year.  Sasol,  South Africa ’s second-largest company by market
value after MTN Ltd., used the Fischer-Tropsch technology it
developed to expand abroad after apartheid ended in 1994.  The company rose 6.50 rand, or 1.8 percent, to 361 rand by
the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg, giving it a 232 billion rand
($35 billion) value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  