-- 
HSBC, UBS Say Greek Debt Restructure Unlikely Yet; Short-Term Bonds Cheap

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-05-06T14:46:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/hsbc-says-greek-government-bonds-maturing-through-2014-extremely-cheap-.html
Greek government bonds maturing
through 2014 are “extremely cheap” because there is little
chance the nation will force a reorganization of its debt on
investors in the next year, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  “Our central scenario is that  Greece  will avoid an
involuntary restructuring of its debt before June 2013,”  Steven Major , global head of fixed-income research in London, wrote in
a client report dated yesterday. “Market valuations appear out
of sync with political and economic realities.”  Greek two-year notes were little changed today, with the
yield at 25.28 percent as of 3:45 p.m. in London. Greece’s two-
year borrowing costs have surged almost 1,000 basis points since
the start of April on mounting concern the nation will
restructure its debt.  There may be a greater chance of a “voluntary action” to
extend the maturity of Greek debt, Major wrote.  “Such a scenario would not represent a  credit event , if
managed well,” he said. “There has been a significant
decoupling between the cash bonds and credit-default swaps,
probably a function of the fear that the CDS will not be
triggered.”  UBS AG said Greek borrowing costs will likely remain “very
volatile.” The Swiss bank “doubts” Greece will undergo a
forced debt restructuring prior to 2013.  “A second aid plan might be challenging to justify on a
political level, since in a sense it proves Greece’s
insolvency,” London-based interest-rate strategists Justin Knight and Andrew Rowan wrote in an e-mailed research note
yesterday. “However, the consequences of coercive debt
restructuring -- known and unknown -- are extreme and
unpredictable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  