-- 
Scene Last Night: James Gorman Shares Tips at Women’s Bond Club

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-05-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/scene-last-night-james-gorman-shares-tips-at-women-s-bond-club.html
Citing his 88-year-old mother, 5
sisters, 5 sisters-in-law, a wife, a daughter, and 19 nieces,
 James Gorman , president and chief executive officer of  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , said he knew a lot about successful women.  Speaking at the Women’s Bond Club Merit Award Dinner
Thursday night at Pier 60, Gorman proceeded to give some career
advice to the 29 women that the club was honoring as “Rising
Stars.”  “Number one, you are rising stars, not stars,” Gorman
said. “It’s a very important point. Your careers are still
evolving. We men tend to pluck women and place you two rings
ahead of yourself. Let’s let you grow at a pace that makes sense
for you.  “Two: Mentors matter. Men sometimes have trouble giving
you honest feedback, and, contrary to their personal lives, they
over-worry about their feelings. Help them through this
awkwardness.”  Gorman suggested that if a woman isn’t getting the feedback
she needs, she should ask her boss to put down in writing three
things she needs to do to succeed.  “Three: You have to delegate more, in order to have the
time to stand back and make good judgments,” Gorman said. “If
you really want to be a senior executive you have to make time
to do what senior executives do.”  The Rising Stars were then called onto the stage one by
one, accompanied by instrumental music that sounded straight out
of an Oscars ceremony. Eventually, 29 women were posing for
photographs and holding their Rising Star awards.  Business Suits  The scene was vaguely reminiscent of a beauty pageant: all
business suits, of course, and no bouquets. The award was a
clear glass plate with a star pattern around the border, so
unassuming it was later mistaken for a saucer for a cup of
coffee served with dessert, a terrine of dark chocolate and
coconut gelato.  Starting in September, the women will also receive six
months of executive coaching.  The Women’s Bond Club, formed in 1921, serves women across
the financial services.  This year’s “Rising Stars” include the chief operating
officer for the private-equity portfolio within Goldman Sachs
Investment Partners, Michelle Barone; a vice president on the
investment grade syndicate desk at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, Maureen O’Connor; and a vice president in commodity
complex risk trading at Deutsche Bank, Michelle Cheng.  At the end of the night, many guests opened the glass doors
and lingered on a broad terrace overlooking the  Hudson River .
With the glittering New Jersey skyline and a warm spring breeze,
it seemed inevitable that they would be breaking through glass
ceilings, if they haven’t already.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 