-- 
Scotland’s 53-Time Champion Rangers Sold to Whyte for 93 Million Pounds

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-06T23:00:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/scotland-s-53-time-champion-rangers-sold-to-whyte-for-93-million-pounds.html
Craig Whyte pledged to keep
 Rangers Football Club Plc (RFC)  a “leading force in Scottish and
European football” as he took over the record 53-time
Scottish soccer champions.   Wavetower Limited, a newly incorporated company owned
by Whyte and formed for the purpose of the acquisition,
will take control of the Glasgow-based club immediately in
a deal valued at 52.5 million pounds ($86 million), Whyte
said last night in a news release.  The agreement, which gives Whyte control of the 85
percent Rangers stake held by David Murray, was signed
earlier yesterday in Edinburgh, Whyte said.  “After six months of negotiations, I am delighted to
confirm that agreement has been reached between myself and
Sir David Murray and that Wavetower now holds the
controlling interest in Rangers,’ said Whyte, who has said
he will pay off debt of about 18 million pounds to  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and invest about 10 million pounds in the
team.  Rangers and Glasgow rival Celtic dominate Scottish
soccer, and have fan bases that rival some of  Europe ’s
biggest teams. Yet the lack of global interest in the
Scottish league means they can’t generate the amount of
income reaped by teams playing in  England ’s Premier League.  Portsmouth, which finished bottom of the Premier
League last season, made 31.9 million pounds in broadcast
income; Rangers got 3.8 million pounds.  That disparity has left Rangers and Celtic, the only
Scottish teams to have won the national title since
Aberdeen in 1985, reliant on appearing in European soccer’s
elite Champions League. Rangers got 16 million pounds, or
about 30 percent, of its 56.3 million pounds in annual
income, from appearing in the tournament last season. The
team was eliminated in the group phase this campaign.  Rangers Atop League  With three games to go in the domestic league, leader
Rangers has a one-point lead over Celtic, and the pair are
20 points clear of third-place Hearts.  Murray acquired Rangers for 6 million pounds in 1988,
and under his ownership the team won nine consecutive
titles between 1989 and 1997 to match a record set by
Celtic in 1974. He’d been in talks to sell the team to
Whyte since November, and Lloyds has worked with the club
to reduce its debt, which was as high as 30 million pounds
last season.  The 40-year-old Whyte’s offer was thrown into doubt
April 19 when Rangers Chairman Alastair Johnston said the
directors would consider an alternative approach.  Ally McCoist, currently the assistant manager, will
replace Walter Smith, who’s standing down after his second
stint in charge at Ibrox.  “I know the club has gone through some difficult
spells in recent times, but it is my commitment to the
manager, his backroom team, the players and, most
importantly, the loyal supporters that I will do all I can
to ensure further success in the weeks, months and years to
come,” Whyte said in the release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 Tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  