-- 
Serbia Eyes 3 Billion Euros in Support Through 2013, Djelic Says

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-05-06T12:38:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/serbia-eyes-3-billion-euros-in-support-through-2013-djelic-says.html
Serbia  is counting on as much as 3
billion euros ($4.3 billion) in international aid and non-
commercial loans through 2013 to help fight poverty and bolster
the economy, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic said.  “The time has not yet come” for international donors to
end support to Serbia, Djelic said in an interview at a Belgrade
conference that looked back at a decade of international.
Because of the global crisis that put the country into a
recession in 2009, “we still have social problems and a very
difficult situation in less-developed municipalities.”  Serbia, a Balkan nation of 7.5 million people, is still
struggling to emerge from its worst contraction in a decade,
with unemployment soaring to 20 percent and the economy
shrinking by more than 3 percent. To tackle problems, Serbia is
counting on about 250 million euros in grants and 700 million
euros in non-commercial loans a year until the end of 2013,
Djelic said.  The mix of new grants and loans would come on top of 6.9
billion euros approved over the past decade, which translated
into 400 euros per capita in grants and 770 euros per capita in
non-commercial lending.  Serbia has already agreed with the  World Bank  on a four-
year assistance package worth at least $800 million, he said.
Half of that amount would go for infrastructure and the other
half for the budget, possibly in the form of lender guarantees
for Serbia’s future market borrowing.  World Bank Talks  “We have already started discussions with the World Bank
about guarantees instead of budget support because the total
impact would be much bigger,” Djelic said.  In January, Serbia chose  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA for a $400
million loan backed by the World Bank, helping the government
cut its borrowing costs. The loan, with a $100 million World
Bank guarantee, came at an all-inclusive cost of 3.87 percent a
year.  With other countries of the Western Balkans, Serbia is
hoping to win similar backing from the European Union before the
27-member bloc enters its new budget cycle in 2014. Just like
the World Bank, the EU would use the funds designed for budget
assistance as guarantees for borrowing, he said.  The idea has already been flagged to EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn , Djelic said.  “Support is mounting, we are not there yet, but it’s
growing because this approach is not unrealistic,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  