-- 
Sex, Death, Housing Merge in Kushner’s ‘Guide’: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-05-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/sex-real-estate-death-converge-in-kushner-s-epic-guide-jeremy-gerard.html
At three acts and nearly four hours
long, Tony Kushner’s audacious family drama has actually grown
since its premier last May at the  Guthrie Theater  in
 Minneapolis . In depth, as well as in length. The former is good,
the latter, not so.  “The Intelligent Homosexual’s Guide to Capitalism and
Socialism With a Key to the Scriptures” takes place early in
the summer of 2007, mostly in a Brooklyn brownstone. Here lives
Gus Marcantonio, a retired dock worker, organizer and
unrepentant communist who currently devotes his time translating
Horace from Latin.  Convinced he has Alzheimer’s, Gus has tried once to do
himself in, with exceedingly messy results. Now he’s convened
his family to “vote” on whether he may try again. He also
announces that he’s sold the old homestead in order to leave
them some cash.  The gathering is ripe for a clash of intergenerational
themes -- sexuality, real estate, economics, theology -- as
fraught as the title suggests. (It was suggested by “The
Intelligent Woman’s Guide to Socialism and Capitalism” by
Bernard Shaw, who knew a thing or two about long titles and
longer plays.  $30,000 Trick  The Marcantonio clan is not given to consensus building.
Son Pier, known as Pill, is a high-school history teacher and
perennial doctoral candidate married to a black man but obsessed
with a white hustler, upon whom he has lavished $30,000
schnorred from his sister, Maria Teresa, known as Empty. Their
brother, Vin, is a working-class hero who counted on inheriting
the house for his own growing family.  Empty is anticipating parenthood with her pregnant lover,
Maeve; Vin is the sperm donor. Empty is also not averse to
sleeping occasionally with Adam, her ex, conveniently holed up
in Gus’s basement. Also living there is Gus’s sister, Clio, a
former Carmelite nun who works with the poor in  New Jersey .  The play is set in the parlor room (handsomely designed by
Mark Wendland), with a couple of excursions to the hustler’s
squalid apartment, where he and Pill debate the erotic versus
economic powers of hard cash.  Kushner’s musical roots (he comes from a family of
classical musicians) are evident in every scene. Confrontations
are orchestrated to accent individual voices; the tone is by
turns dark or giddy, compassionate or mean-spirited.  Verbal Crossfire  Director Michael Greif exploits those qualities in a
production whose verbal crossfire frequently climaxes in noisy
babble before returning to a simmering cauldron of wounded
feelings, remembered betrayals and existential anguish.  A core of Kushner specialists are at work here, including
Stephen Spinella as the maddeningly confused Pill and Linda
Emond as the sexually flexible, rock-solid Empty. (I missed
Kathleen Chalfant, the original Clio.) The ensemble works
magnetically, the individual members pulling and repulsing each
other as family members will.  Over the course of the play, Gus changes from saintly
unionist believer to fallen idol. As Kushner’s Prospero with his
own betrayals to reveal, Gus is played with molten sincerity by
Michael Cristofer, who overlays his cockiness with almost
palpable pathos.  “The best thing I ever did was also the worst thing I ever
did,” he admits to Vin, placing us securely in Arthur Miller
territory, where damaged children struggle to overcome their
father’s secret failures of conscience.  Kushner, to his credit, lacks -- perhaps even renounces --
Miller’s moral certitude. The “Guide” ends on an ambivalent
note, which is, I suppose, exactly as it should be.  Through June 12 at the  Public Theater , 425 Lafayette St.
Information: +1-212-967-7555;  http://www.publictheater.org 
Rating: ****  NB: Earlier this week, the trustees of the  City University
of New York  -- once a proud hotbed of literary and social
criticism -- voted to “shelve” an honorary doctorate for
Kushner because of comments the playwright has made about
 Israel .  Kushner described the attack on him as “a grotesque
caricature of my political beliefs” concerning Israel, of which
he has been a critical but unwavering supporter. He was given no
chance to respond. The vote was shameful.  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 