-- 
Siemens Picks Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, UBS for Osram IPO

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-05-06T14:18:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/siemens-picks-deutsche-bank-goldman-sachs-ubs-for-osram-ipo.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  picked  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  as global coordinators for
the initial public offering of its Osram GmbH lighting unit
later this year.  The selection is “an important foundation for the success
of the IPO,” Chief Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  said in a
statement. The banks were chosen from “a strong group,” and
Munich-based Siemens will select more institutions to help with
the offering scheduled for fall 2011 later.  Winning the mandate for Osram bolsters the standing of
Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs in the lucrative market to
arrange stock listings, after the two banks were announced
yesterday as coordinators on Evonik Industries AG’s IPO this
year, slated to be  Germany ’s biggest offering in a decade.  Goldman Sachs has underwritten global equity offerings
worth $22.4 billion so far this year, making it the top
investment bank in this market, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, which tops the ranking for
international bond sales this year, is fourth, while UBS ranks
ninth, according to the data.  Siemens said March 28 it planned to cede control of Osram
as Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  focuses the company
around energy, industry, infrastructure and health care,
shifting away from consumer-based products. Siemens has exited
industries including phones and consumer electronics, and
Loescher has taken the company deeper into areas such as
renewable energy.  Maintain Stake  Siemens plans to maintain a minority stake in Osram, which
it says will benefit from growth in the global lighting
industry. Osram is a leader in energy-efficient light-emitting
diodes, together with companies such as Cree Inc. in the U.S.
and  Japan ’s Nichia Corp., Kaeser has said.  Osram is the world’s second-largest lighting company,
behind Amsterdam-based Royal Philips Electronics NV. Siemens,
which announced earnings on May 4, has started treating the
subsidiary as a discontinued operation. Wolfgang Dehen, who
previously ran the energy division, took over as head of Osram.  Osram, which will maintain its headquarter in Munich, has
an enterprise value of 5 billion euros ($7.3 billion) to 7
billion euros, according to analyst estimates. The initial
public offering stands to be among the biggest listings in
Germany in the past decade, when the country’s average IPO had a
value of about 120 million euros, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Osram has about 40,000 employees globally.  Evonik, the German specialty chemicals company partly owned
by buyout firm CVC Capital Partners Ltd., yesterday said it
chose Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs to coordinate its IPO,
which the company aims to undertake later this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  