-- 
Singapore Poised for Record Turnout as Voters Weigh Lee Against Opposition

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-05-07T14:11:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/singapore-set-for-record-vote-as-lee-s-party-faces-opposition.html
Singaporeans voted in record numbers
today, facing a choice between Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s
 People’s Action Party  and the biggest number of opponents since
independence.  A record 1.8 million voters cast their ballots out of 2.21
million eligible citizens, according to Channel NewsAsia. Lee
has sought a new mandate from voters who voiced discontent about
the rising cost of living and competition with foreigners for
jobs and housing.  Polls  closed at 8 p.m.  “No doubt over the years the PAP has done well for
Singapore, but we need a check in parliament,” said Darren Lim,
who’s in his 30s and works in health care. Lim, who votes in the
Aljunied constituency where the opposition is fielding its top
candidates, said he expects the ruling party to retain power and
plans to vote for the rival  Workers’ Party .  The PAP, whose five-decade rule oversaw a 41-fold jump in
gross domestic product, encountered a more vocal electorate than
before, prompting a rare apology from Lee for failing to build
enough public housing and expand transport links as the
population grew. Lee’s efforts to boost the economy include the
opening of two casino resorts, bringing the Formula One race to
the island and attracting foreign workers.  The opposition drew thousands to rallies in the past two
weeks, where candidates including the Workers’ Party’s Low Thia Khiang and Sylvia Lim brought cheers with calls for a stronger
voice in parliament and more affordable public housing.  ‘High and Mighty’  Opposition groups including the  Singapore  Democratic Party
are vying for 82 of 87 parliamentary seats in 26 out of 27
districts. The only uncontested constituency was that of
Minister Mentor Lee Kuan Yew, 87, the Cambridge University-
trained lawyer who led the island from British rule and was its
first premier. He’s the father of the current prime minister.  The parliament dissolved last month had 82 PAP lawmakers,
two elected opposition politicians and 10 non-elected members.  “The PAP has served us well over the many years but it’s
gotten too high and mighty,” said Yeo Pei Ming, 56, a vegetable
merchant and resident of Aljunied. “I think it’s about time we
had more opposition voices.”  The ruling party is likely to keep a majority because it
retains support from citizens who have seen their wealth rise
over the decades, as the island with no natural resources was
built into a Southeast Asian manufacturing and financial hub.  Singapore’s gross domestic product was about S$285 billion
($231 billion) last year, compared with S$6.9 billion in  1960 ,
based on 2005 market prices. GDP grew 14.5 percent last year,
the most in  Asia .  ‘Concrete Solutions’  “I agree that the PAP has its faults, but the opposition
is not strong enough,” said Landon Lim, 31, who doesn’t have to
vote because he lives in the elder Lee’s Tanjong Pagar district.
“I see the opposition always pointing out PAP’s mistakes, but I
want to see concrete solutions.”  Politicians competed in single-seat wards or multiple-seat
districts called Group Representation Constituencies, or GRCs.
The party that gets the most number of votes in a district will
send all its members to parliament, and the PAP has never lost a
GRC.  Workers’ Party Chairman Lim and Secretary-General Low
contested in the Aljunied district led by Foreign Minister
George Yeo. Low had the biggest victory margin among opposition
candidates in the 2006 election in percentage terms, and has
held a parliament seat since 1991.  Chance to Vote  In the 2006 elections, seven GRCs were unopposed, leaving
about 936,000 Singaporeans without the opportunity to vote. In
2001, 10 GRCs were unopposed and 1.36 million eligible citizens
didn’t get to vote. Singaporean citizens make up 3.2 million of
the island’s population of 5.1 million.  Dissent is growing among Singaporeans who may feel less
beholden to the ruling party that led the island out of colonial
rule than past voters. The PAP won about 67 percent of the votes
cast in 2006, down from 75 percent in the 2001 elections.  Singapore’s economic success has widened the  income gap ,
with the world’s highest share of dollar-millionaire households
contributing to higher property and consumer prices.  Singapore’s  Gini coefficient , a gauge of  income inequality ,
rose to 0.48 last year from 0.444 in 2000, according to the
statistics department. A reading of zero means income equality,
while a reading of one means complete inequality. Inflation
accelerated to a two-year high of 5.5 percent in January.  Vote PAP or ‘Repent’  The government plans to spend S$6.6 billion on benefits for
citizens in this year’s budget to ease the burden of inflation.  The elder Lee, Singapore’s prime minister until 1990,
appealed to voters by pointing out the PAP’s track record of
boosting their wealth.  “Do not risk your assets, property values, job
opportunities,” he said in an editorial in the Today newspaper
last week. “Vote for men and women of proven character and
track records of high performance.”  Lee also warned voters that they will “repent” if they
don’t elect the ruling party.  His son used a more conciliatory tone. Prime Minister Lee,
59, apologized at a PAP rally for not moving faster to address
shortfalls in housing and transportation, the  Straits Times 
reported. “If we didn’t quite get it right, I am sorry but we
will try and do better the next time,” the newspaper cited him
as saying May 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  