-- 
Sony Offers Network Users Free Identity-Theft Service After Hacker Attack

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-05-06T20:18:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/sony-offers-network-users-free-identity-theft-service-after-hacker-attack.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  Chairman Howard Stringer
apologized and offered U.S. users of its PlayStation Network and
Qriocity online services a year of free identity-theft
protection after the system was crippled by hackers.  Japan’s biggest consumer-electronics exporter will offer a
 $1 million  insurance policy per user, covering legal expenses,
identity-restoration costs and lost wages that occur after data
is stolen, Sony said in a  blog post . Austin, Texas-based Debix
Inc. was hired to provide the monitoring service and similar
programs for customers other countries are being considered.  The announcement follows last month’s hacking of Sony’s
online entertainment and games platforms when the Tokyo-based
company was criticized by U.S. lawmakers for not informing users
of the breach quick enough.  “I welcome Sony’s strong first step toward protecting
millions of consumers whose personal and financial information
has been compromised,” U.S. Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a
Democrat from  Connecticut , said in a statement.  The shares fell to their lowest in a week in Tokyo today
after Sony increased the total number of accounts that were
comprised to 101.6 million.  “This is an unprecedented case of information theft in
terms of the number of accounts involved,” said  Nobuo Kurahashi , an analyst at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in Tokyo.
“There are lots of uncertainties including lawsuits, making it
difficult to estimate the company’s overall expense.”  U.S. subscribers have until June 18 to sign up for Debix’s
AllClear ID Plus protection program, said Patrick Seybold, a
Sony spokesman for the video-games unit.  ‘Frustrating Time’  Sony didn’t say whether the program will cover  identity
theft  that isn’t related to the mid-April breach of the
PlayStation and Qriocity networks, which affected 77 million
accounts. Some 24.6 million users of the Sony Online
Entertainment platform were also affected, the company said.  “I know this is a frustrating time for all of you,” Chief
Executive Officer Stringer said in the blog post. “Let me
assure you that the resources of this company have been focused
on investigating the entire nature and impact of the cyber
attack we’ve all experienced and on fixing it.”  Kazuo Hirai, Sony’s executive deputy president in charge of
consumer products and network services, apologized May 1 for the
breach and said the company aims to restore the online gaming
center by the end of the month after upgrading security. Hirai
and two other officials bowed in apology at a press conference
in  Tokyo , and said Sony can’t rule out credit card numbers and
expiry dates having been stolen. The company is cooperating with
authorities, including the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .  Legal Backlash  Sony fell 2.3 percent to 2,262 yen at the close of trading
in Tokyo, the lowest level since April 28. The shares have
slumped 23 percent this year.  The console maker has faced a legal and political backlash
over delays in the time it took to warn customers their accounts
had been compromised. Users were alerted of the breach April 27,
six days after the shutdown of the movie and music-streaming
services. The company hired technical experts to find out the
problem.  “I wish we could have gotten the answers we needed sooner,
but forensic analysis is a complex, time-consuming process,”
Stringer wrote. “Hackers, after all, do their best to cover
their tracks. It took some time for our experts to find those
tracks and begin to identify what personal information had, or
had not, been taken.”  ‘Anonymous’  Sony said on May 2 that the April attack also gave hackers
access to data from Sony Online Entertainment, which offers
role-playing games. That exposed 23,400 credit-card and debit
records from non-U.S. customers, and the personal account
information of 24.6 million account holders.  The inventor of Walkman music players was subpoenaed by New
York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  over the data braches, a
person familiar with the probe said.  In a letter to U.S. lawmakers, the company said while
looking into the Sony Online Entertainment breach, it discovered
that intruders had “planted a file on one of those servers
named ‘Anonymous,’ with the words, ‘We are Legion.’”  The company noted that weeks earlier, several Sony
divisions had been the “target of a large-scale, coordinated
denial-of-service attack” by Anonymous, a hacker-activist
group.  Sony was singled out in a statement by ‘Anonymous’ after
the company sued George Hotz, a 21-year-old hacker who
publicized instructions for playing unauthorized games on the
PlayStation console.  Legal and technology costs are likely to increase because
of the incident, further hurting Sony’s credit profile, Moody’s
 Japan  K.K. said in a statement May 2. Sony has an A3 rating at
Moody’s with a ‘stable’ outlook.  “We are absolutely dedicated to restoring full and safe
service as soon as possible and rewarding you for your
patience,” wrote Stringer. “We will settle for nothing less.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  