-- 
South Korea’s Bahk to Replace Yoon as Finance Minister

-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-05-06T10:33:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/south-korea-s-bahk-to-replace-yoon-as-finance-minister-1-.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
named Labor Minister Bahk Jae Wan to replace Finance Minister
Yoon Jeung Hyun as the government grapples with higher prices
and slower growth.  Lee also replaced ministers for agriculture, the
environment, transportation and labor, Chief of Staff Lim Tae
Hee said in an announcement broadcast live by YTN television.
The changes are subject to confirmation hearings in the National
Assembly, where Lee’s  Grand National Party  has a majority.  Bahk, 56, faces consumer-price rises that have exceeded the
president’s 3 percent target since September and record
 household debt . He served as senior secretary to Lee on
political and state affairs for three years until July 2010.  “The government will continue efforts to boost economic
growth while containing inflation by capping the won’s gains and
interest-rate increases,” Oh Suk Tae, an economist at SC First
Bank  Korea  Ltd. in  Seoul , said before today’s announcement.
President Lee plays a leading role in setting economic policy,
so the Cabinet reshuffle is unlikely to bring changes in
direction, Oh said.  Agricultural Minister Yoo Jeong Bok offered to resign on
Jan. 28 in the wake of South Korea’s worst outbreak of foot-and-
mouth disease.  Food Prices Jump  Almost 10 million cattle, pigs and poultry were buried in
mass graves across the countryside during the winter, prompting
concerns that pollutants could enter groundwater as the soil
thawed in spring.  The animal cull contributed to a 15 percent jump in prices
for agricultural, dairy and fisheries products in South Korea in
March. Imported oil and commodity prices soared almost 36
percent in March from a year earlier, the biggest gain since
October 2008, pushing overall import price growth to a 27-month
high.  South Korea ’s household debt, including credit purchases,
climbed to a record 795.4 trillion won ($730 billion) at the end
of 2010, the central bank said on Feb. 21. Banks’ lending to
households increased to a record 434.1 trillion won in March,
led by  mortgage loans , the central bank said on April 11.  “Key challenges for Yoon’s successor are reducing Korea’s
leverage without unduly slowing growth,” Erik Lueth, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. said
on April 15.  Capital Controls   The  Bank of Korea  projected on April 13 that the nation’s
consumer prices will rise 3.9 percent this year, close to the 4
percent upper limit it is targeting through 2012. It forecast
the economy to expand 4.5 percent this year and 4.8 percent in
2012 after a 6.2 percent gain in 2010.  The central bank’s benchmark interest rate is at 3 percent.  Yoon, 64, became finance minister in February 2009, when
the economy was contracting. He initiated capital controls to
shield the economy from sudden capital outflows and to reduce
the won’s volatility.  Yoon set caps on foreign-currency derivatives trading,
reimposed a bond tax on foreign investors, and introduced a plan
to levy a tax on banks’ external debt. He also helped host
gatherings of Group of 20 nations in South Korea last year.  “I feel Minister Yoon steered Korea very ably through the
worst global financial crisis since the World War II,” Lueth
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  