-- 
South Korea to Invest 1 Trillion Won in Safety Check of Nuclear Reactors

-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-05-06T08:18:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/south-korea-to-invest-922-million-in-safety-check-of-nuclear-reactors.html
South Korea , which depends on nuclear
energy for 33 percent of its electricity, plans to spend 1
trillion won ($922 million) over the next five years to upgrade
safety facilities at reactors.  A check detected no problems at the nation’s 21 reactors
including the oldest, the 33-year old  Kori No. 1 , Minister of
Education, Science and Technology Lee Ju Ho told reporters in
Seoul. The 587-megawatt Kori reactor resumed operations today
after it was halted on April 12 because of an electrical fault.
Power deliveries will begin on May 8.  The reactors at the country’s four nuclear sites were found
to be operating to specifications based on the worst-case
scenario of an earthquake and tsunami, Lee said, adding that the
review was performed from March 23 to April 30. “Motivated by
the reactor accident in  Japan , we will carry out upgrades to 50
safety facilities” to prepare for a national disaster, he said.  South Korea’s reactors are built to withstand a 6.5-
magnitude earthquake. Two of the four reactors at Kori are
designed to cope with a tsunami 7.5 meters (25 feet) high.
Reactors in Yeonggwang, Uljin and Wolseong are protected against
a 10-meter tsunami.  The safety check came after South Korea’s political
opposition asked the government to decommission all of the
country’s old reactors. State-run Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power
Co., which operates all the country’s atomic plants, will lead
the upgrades, the ministry said today.  The improvements will include works to raise sea walls at
Kori, at a lower elevation than other plants, to more than 4.2
meters from the current 1.7 meters, according to the  ministry .
The plant is 453 kilometers (282 miles) southeast of  Seoul .  Mobile power generators will be installed at nuclear
facilities and passive autocatalytic recombiners, which can
operate without external power, will be added to reduce the risk
of hydrogen explosions in an accident.  Four reactors at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant were damaged by hydrogen blasts after a
magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami on March 11 knocked
out backup power and cooling systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 