-- 
Spanish Economy Grew 0.2% From Previous Quarter, Bank of Spain Estimates

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-05-06T09:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/spanish-economy-grew-0-2-from-previous-quarter-bank-of-spain-estimates.html
Spain ’s economy grew in the first
quarter at the same pace as the previous three months, the Bank
of Spain said, as the nation struggled to rein in a growing debt
burden and the highest  unemployment rate  in the euro region.  Gross domestic product grew 0.2 percent in the first three
months of the year, matching the fourth-quarter growth rate, and
expanded 0.7 percent from a year earlier, the Bank of Spain
estimated today. The positive contribution of exports grew while
domestic demand had a negative impact, the central bank said.  Spain, home to almost a third of the euro region’s
unemployed, is relying on exports to spur the recovery as
austerity measures aimed at slashing the  budget deficit  by half
in two years undermine consumer spending. Unemployment and steps
to contain the debt crisis are eroding support for the ruling
Socialists, who are set to lose most of the regional elections
they face this month, polls show.  “Domestic demand is still largely negative and the only
positive contribution comes from exports,”  Giada Giani , an
economist at Citigroup in  London , said in a telephone interview.
“There’s been a mix of data recently that suggests the second
quarter could be weaker than the first.”  Output Drop  Industrial production fell 0.9 percent in March from a year
earlier, pulled down by a decline in  consumer goods , the
National Statistics Institute said in a separate report today.
Retail sales slumped 8.6 percent from a year earlier in March in
the ninth decline, while  home prices  continue to fall after the
collapse of a decade-long property boom.  The statistics institute will publish its initial estimate
of first-quarter GDP on May 13, and a full breakdown on May 18.  Exports in the first two months grew 27 percent from a year
earlier of the year, according to data from the Industry
Ministry, as demand recovered in France and  Germany . Madrid-
based  Acerinox SA (ACX) , the world’s largest stainless steel maker,
reported a six-fold increase in first-quarter profit and said
global demand levels allowed the company to be “optimistic”
about the following three months.  Foreign sales haven’t translated into more jobs at home and
the nation’s jobless rate rose to 21.3 percent in the first
quarter. The figures should get better in the coming quarters,
Deputy Finance Minister Jose Manuel Campa said on April 29, even
as he declined to say whether the rate had peaked.  Rate Outlook  Adding to pressure on Spanish consumers, the  European
Central Bank  raised its benchmark interest rate last month for
the first time in three years and President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled yesterday that the bank may raise rates again after
June. Spain has one of the highest private-debt burdens in the
euro region and 97 percent of mortgages have variable rates.  “ Consumer spending  is suffering from inflation and
gasoline prices, and will remain weak next year” as interest
rates increase, said Jose Carlos Diez, chief economist at
Intermoney Valores in Madrid.  Rising joblessness risks undermining efforts to cut the
budget deficit to 6 percent of gross domestic product this year
and 4.4 percent next year, from 9 percent in 2010, when it was
the third-largest gap in the euro region.  The government forecasts growth of 1.3 percent this year,
accelerating to 2.3 percent in 2012. The  International Monetary
Fund  and Bank of Spain see slower growth, with the central bank
predicting the economy will expand 0.8 percent and 1.5 percent
respectively and that the government may miss its deficit goals.  “I don’t think they’re way away from the target but there
are risks,” Giani said.  Unemployment is also eroding support for the government,
which faces elections in 13 of the 17 regions on May 22. The
ruling Socialist party will lose most of the votes, including in
the region of Castilla-La Mancha which it has controlled for
three decades, according to a poll by the state-run Center for
Sociological Research.  The regional votes come less than a year before general
elections, which polls also signal Prime Minister Jose Luis
RodriguezZapatero will lose to the opposition People’s Party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  