-- 
Obama Congratulates Bin Laden Commando Assault Team for a ‘Job Well Done'

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-05-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/special-forces-that-raided-bin-laden-hideout-meet-obama-at-fort-campbell.html
President  Barack Obama  met with the
commandos who staged the raid that killed Osama Bin Laden,
saying that because of them the terrorist leader responsible for
the Sept. 11 attacks “will never threaten America again.”  Obama and Vice President  Joe Biden  talked privately with
the helicopter pilots and Navy SEALs yesterday at  Fort Campbell ,
 Kentucky , where they also addressed soldiers who recently
returned from fighting in Afghanistan.  “I came here for a simple reason: to say thank you,”
Obama told a hangar full of service members. “On behalf of all
Americans and people around the world --- Job well done.”  Fort Campbell is the home base for the Army’s 160th Special
Operations Aviation  Regiment , which piloted the SEALs of the
Navy’s Special Warfare Development Group on the bin Laden raid,
and the 5th Special Forces Group. It also is home to the  101st
Airborne Division .  Obama and Biden met with the full assault force that took
part in the bin Laden operation and awarded the units involved a
Presidential Unit Citation, according to an administration
official.  “Thanks to the incredible skill and courage of countless
individuals, intelligence, military, over many years, the
terrorist leader who struck our nation on 9/11 will never
threaten America again,” the president said.  Raid on Compound  The U.S. commandos raided the compound just after midnight
on May 2 local time. One of the specially equipped Black Hawk
helicopters lost lift and landed hard at the compound. While no
U.S. personnel were hurt, the craft had to be destroyed on the
ground, and a backup helicopter helped evacuate the assault
force, which also was carrying bin Laden’s body and the
computers, storage media and documents taken from the house.  Obama called the raid “one of the greatest intelligence
and military operations in our nation’s history.”  The administration has warned that the death of bin Laden
doesn’t remove the threat from his followers.  That was illustrated by a message from al-Qaeda dated May
3, and posted on websites that have carried confirmed jihadist
statements in the past, confirming bin Laden’s death and
threatening to retaliate “soon” against the U.S.  Bin Laden’s blood “is too valuable to us and to every
Muslim to let it go in vain,” the statement attributed to al-
Qaeda said.  U.S. Strategy  Obama told the soldiers at Fort Campbell that the
successful mission against the terrorist leader showed the U.S.
strategy is working in the war against terrorism and in
 Afghanistan , which the U.S. invaded following the Sept. 11
attacks masterminded by bin Laden.  “There’s no greater evidence of that than justice finally
being delivered to Osama bin Laden,” he said.  Obama has set a timetable for beginning a withdrawal from
Afghanistan in July, with plans to have all U.S. combat troops
out of the country by 2014.  “Because of your service, because of your sacrifices,
we’re making progress in Afghanistan,” the president said. “In
key regions, we’ve seized the momentum.”  However, he said the war in Afghanistan “continues to be a
very tough fight.”  As of May 5, 1,561 members of the U.S. military have died
in the Afghanistan war, according to the  Department of Defense .  Afghanistan’s ambassador to the U.S. cautioned against a
hasty American withdrawal from the region after members of
Congress from both parties this week questioned the need to
continue sacrificing American lives and providing U.S. aid now
that al-Qaeda’s leader is dead.  “Underneath him is a very complicated and complex network
that needs to be dealt with,” Ambassador Eklil Ahmad Hakimi
said in an interview in Washington today. “So concluding that
the job is done is something that we should be very cautious
about.”  ‘Game-Changer’  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , who met with the mission
team May 5 at an undisclosed location, told troops at Seymour-
Johnson Air Force Base in  North Carolina  yesterday that the
killing of bin Laden “could be a game-changer” for the war in
Afghanistan.  Bin Laden had “a very close personal relationship” with
Mullah Omar, the leader of the Taliban that harbored al-Qaeda in
Afghanistan before the Sept. 11 attacks, Gates said, according
to a Defense Department transcript.  “I think it’s too early to make a judgment in terms of the
impact inside Afghanistan,” Gates said. “But I think in six
months or so, we’ll probably know if it’s made a difference.”  U.S. Resilience  Obama also said the bin Laden mission demonstrated U.S.
resilience and its ability to recover from adversity, whether
the shock of the Sept. 11 attacks or a deep recession.  “We’re still the America that does the hard things, that
does the great things,” Obama said. “We don’t turn back.  We
pick ourselves up and we get on with the hard task of keeping
our country strong and safe.”  On May 5, Obama visited the Sept. 11 memorial being built
at the former  World Trade Center site , his first trip there as
president. While there he met with the families of some of the
victims of the 2001 terrorist attack, the worst ever on U.S.
soil.  The stop at Fort Campbell was added to a previously
scheduled trip to Indianapolis, where the president talked about
the need for the nation to develop alternative energy sources to
cut U.S. dependence on foreign oil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in  Washington  at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  