-- 
Stocks in Europe Drop for First Week in Three as Commodities Lead Retreat

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-05-06T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/stocks-in-europe-decline-for-first-week-in-three-as-commodities-retreat.html
European stocks retreated for the
first week in three as energy and mining companies tumbled with
commodities, overshadowing a bigger-than-forecast increase in
U.S. payrolls.  Fresnillo Plc, the world’s biggest primary silver producer,
slumped 12 percent as the precious metal had the largest weekly
drop in more than 30 years. Royal Dutch Shell Plc,  Europe ’s
largest oil company, sank 4.2 percent as crude suffered its
biggest weekly retreat in a year. Lloyds Banking Group Plc
plunged 8.9 percent after reporting a loss.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 0.9 percent to 281.33
this past week, paring its 2011 advance to 2 percent. The
measure closed at a two-month high on May 2 as President  Barack Obama  said U.S. forces killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden,
before sliding 2.2 percent over the following three days.  “A fall in commodities and oil prices has knocked the
stuffing out of basic-resources and energy stocks,” said Dale Gibson, head of European equities at  Raymond James  in  London .
“Europe hasn’t had any genuine private-sector job growth in a
long time, showing a remarkable contrast with this week’s
payrolls data in the U.S.”  The Stoxx 600 has still climbed 7.3 percent from this
year’s low on March 16 as companies including PSA Peugeot
Citroen and Ericsson AB reported earnings that topped analyst
estimates and the  Federal Reserve  maintained its pledge to keep
interest rates low for an extended period.  U.S. Payrolls  European shares pared their weekly decline yesterday as
U.S. Labor Department figures showed the world’s biggest economy
added more jobs than forecast. Payrolls increased by 244,000
workers last month, the biggest gain since May 2010. Private
hiring surged by 268,000 in April, the most since February 2006.  Economic data earlier in the week had been less positive.
April reports from the  Institute for Supply Management  released
on May 2 and May 4 said U.S. manufacturing cooled and the
nation’s service industries expanded at the slowest pace in
eight months.  In  China , a manufacturing index for last month fell after
the government raised  interest rates  and bank reserve
requirements and allowed gains in the yuan to pick up. Factory
orders in  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, unexpectedly
dropped in March, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said.  Commodities Selloff  Selling swept commodity markets this week as investors sold
positions following gains of more than 23 percent in 2011
through April 29 by silver, oil, gasoline, coffee and cotton.
The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities sank 10
percent this week as of 6:15 p.m. in London yesterday, the
biggest decline since 2008.  Fresnillo lost 12 percent as silver futures headed for the
biggest weekly plunge since at least 1975 following increases in
Comex margin requirements. Antofagasta Plc, the copper producer
controlled by Chile’s Luksic family, dropped 12 percent as
output from the first three months of the year missed the
company’s target. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining
company, slid 3.7 percent. Boliden AB, Scandinavia’s only copper
producer, plunged 13 percent as earnings missed estimates.  A measure of oil and gas companies in the Stoxx 600 slid
3.7 percent this week as crude dropped 10 percent, the largest
weekly slump since May 2010.  Shell, which explores for oil and processes and sells crude
products, fell 4.2 percent. Stockholm-based Lundin Petroleum AB
tumbled 6.9 percent.  Carnival Climbs  Carnival Plc (CCL) , the London-based cruise ship operator, soared
7.7 percent as travel companies rallied on lower fuel prices.
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, the parent of
British Airways, advanced 6.7 percent.  Lloyds fell 8.9 percent after a decision to set aside 3.2
billion pounds ($5.3 billion) to settle claims that clients were
improperly sold loan insurance helped push the British bank into
a first-quarter net loss of 2.4 billion pounds.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S tumbled 11 percent after the
largest wind turbine maker also reported a quarterly loss.  Schroders Plc plummeted 11 percent, the most in more than
two years, after the largest publicly traded U.K. fund manager
published earnings that missed some estimates. Evolution
Securities downgraded the shares to “add” from “buy.”  Of the 217 companies in the Stoxx 600 that have reported
earnings since April 11, 129 have beaten analyst forecasts for
per-share profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pandora Gains  Pandora A/S, the Danish jewelry chain that opened a store
in  San Francisco  last month, had the biggest gain in the Stoxx
600 this week. The shares rallied 13 percent as HSBC Holdings
Plc rated them “overweight” in new coverage.  Danisco A/S climbed 4.5 percent to the highest since 1989
as the world’s largest food-ingredients maker received an
increased takeover bid from DuPont Co.  Adidas AG surged 5.2 percent as the world’s second-largest
sporting-goods maker said first-quarter profit rose as it sold
more Reebok fitness shoes and generated higher revenue in
emerging markets.  Jeronimo Martins SGPS SA (JMT) ,  Portugal ’s biggest retailer,
soared 11 percent, the most in a year. The company’s first-
quarter net income rose 345 percent to 56.4 million euros ($81
million), helped by sales of its unit in  Poland .  U.K. retailers advanced. Next Plc climbed 4 percent as the
U.K.’s second-largest fashion retailer raised its annual
earnings and sales forecasts after warmer weather and royal
wedding celebrations encouraged Britons to replenish their
summer wardrobes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  