-- 
U.S. Stocks Advance as Job Growth Tops Economists’ Estimates

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-06T20:55:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/stock-futures-in-u-s-extend-gains-treasuries-decline-on-payroll-increase.html
U.S. stocks advanced, paring the
biggest weekly decline for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since
March, as stronger-than-forecast growth in jobs bolstered
confidence in the world’s largest economy.  DuPont Co. and  Boeing Co. (BA)  rose at least 1.1 percent to help
lead gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Kraft Foods
Inc. (KFT) , the world’s second-largest food company, and  Fluor Corp. (FLR) ,
the biggest publicly traded U.S. construction company, climbed
more than 2 percent after beating analysts’ earnings estimates.
Stocks trimmed gains after two people familiar with the
situation said European finance officials are meeting in
Luxembourg to discuss restructuring Greek debt.  The S&P 500 advanced 0.4 percent to 1,340.20 at 4 p.m. in
New York, after earlier rallying as much as 1.4 percent. The
benchmark gauge for American equities dropped 1.7 percent this
week as commodities slumped the most since 2008. The Dow gained
54.57 points, or 0.4 percent, to 12,638.74 today.  “The jobs report was pretty solid,” said  Russ Koesterich ,
the San Francisco-based global chief investment strategist for
the IShares unit of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which oversees $3.65
trillion as the world’s largest asset manager. “It gave people
more conviction that the economic recovery is still on pace.
Investors started to doubt the sustainability of the rebound and
commodities naturally took the hit. The rally is a partial
reversal of that sentiment. There’s more room for stocks to move
higher during the course of the year.”  Commodity Producers  Gauges of energy and raw-material companies fell more than
4.4 percent through yesterday to lead the S&P 500’s retreat from
an almost three-year high reached on April 29. The plunge in
commodity shares led the index to a 2.1 percent retreat over the
first four days of this week. Including today’s rebound, the
index is up 6.6 percent this year amid higher-than-forecast
profits and government stimulus efforts.  One year ago today the Dow average had the biggest slide
since 1987, as a mutual fund’s hedging strategy set off a chain
reaction. Almost 1.3 billion shares traded on U.S. markets in a
10-minute span starting at 2:40 p.m.  New York  time on May 6,
2010, six times the average, sending prices lower on trading
venues from New York to New Jersey and Chicago. The Dow slumped
almost 1,000 points intraday before paring losses.  Stock futures extended gains before the start of regular
trading today after a government report showed that the  U.S.
economy  added more jobs than forecast in April, easing concern
that higher fuel prices are slowing the economic recovery.  ‘Very Positive’  Payrolls increased by 244,000 workers last month, the
biggest gain since May 2010, after a revised 221,000 increase
the prior month, the Labor Department said. Economists projected
an April rise of 185,000, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. Employment excluding government jobs
jumped the most in five years. The jobless rate rose to 9
percent, the first increase since November.  “The very positive jobs report was just what we needed
after all the bad news of the last few days,” said Paul Zemsky,
the New York-based head of  asset allocation  for ING Investment
Management, which oversees $550 billion. “The market is going
to focus on the change in private payrolls which was excellent.
That will more than offset a slight increase in the  unemployment
rate . If oil continues to fall, we’ll see higher  consumer
spending  and a very good environment for stocks.”  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest mutual fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said U.S. growth isn’t
sufficient to support asset and labor markets nor enough to
compensate for the nation’s growing debt level.  ‘Hardly Sufficient’  “The private economy is moving ahead as evidenced by
today’s number but at a measured pace,” Gross said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “Year-
over-year real gross domestic product is holding at 2 percent,
while nominal GDP is only 3.9 percent. That’s hardly sufficient
to support both asset and labor markets in combination, nor is
it sufficient to grow our way out of a steadily increasing debt
to GDP ratio. It’s not enough.”  While employment growth will probably be strong the next
few months, investors will need to see whether that is
sustainable once the  Federal Reserve ’s policy of quantitative
easing ends in June, according to Gross. The  S&P 500  has rallied
28 percent since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  suggested on Aug.
27 that he would pursue a second round of asset purchases to
stimulate the economy.  Likely Outcome  The euro extended losses versus the dollar as European
finance officials held an unscheduled meeting in Luxembourg
where they may discuss proposals for restructuring Greek debt,
according to two European officials familiar with the situation.
A German official said the discussions would include a German
paper on options for confronting Greece’s growing debt load,
which has spurred speculation by investors that a restructuring
was a likely outcome.  Earlier, Der Spiegel magazine reported that ministers are
convening an emergency meeting after Greece threatened to
withdraw from the euro region. Greece rejected the report,
according to a finance ministry statement, and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s chief spokesman “categorically” denied that
any discussions on a Greek exit were under way. He declined to
comment when asked whether officials are meeting tonight.  “We’re seeing some knee-jerk reaction in the  currency
market ,” said Kevin Caron, a market strategist in  Florham Park ,
 New Jersey , at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. “The dollar gets a bid as
a haven when there’s concern about risks. As investors bid the
dollar, they sell other things, like commodities and stocks.”  Industrial Shares Rally  A gauge of industrial companies in the S&P 500 rose 0.8
percent, the most within 10 groups. DuPont, the third-biggest
U.S. chemical maker, added 1.4 to $54.63. Boeing gained 1.1
percent to $79.31.  Kraft rose 2.1 percent, the most in the Dow, to $34.08.
Food and beverage companies such as Kraft, Sara Lee Corp. and
Kellogg Co. have raised prices on many products to cope with
rising costs for commodities such as wheat, corn, and coffee.
Kraft, led by Chief Executive Officer Irene Rosenfeld, said
yesterday that price increases helped make up for rising costs.  Fluor jumped 7.9 percent to $70.87. The largest publicly
traded U.S. construction company said first-quarter profit rose
2.3 percent as higher metal prices spurred mining projects. A
rebound in commodity demand and higher  oil prices  have boosted
mining and energy contracts, helping Fluor reach record backlog
of $37.2 billion.  Earnings per share beat estimates at 73 percent of the 416
companies in the S&P 500 that reported quarterly results since
April 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  