-- 
Sunil Bhalla Asks Judge in New York to Dismiss SEC Suit

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-05-06T20:08:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/sunil-bhalla-asks-judge-in-new-york-to-dismiss-sec-suit-1-.html
Former  Polycom Inc. (PLCM)  executive Sunil Bhalla asked a judge in New York to dismiss a lawsuit the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filed against him in a case
stemming from the Galleon Group LLC  insider-trading  probe.  The SEC sued Trivium Capital Management LLC and four
individuals including Bhalla in January, alleging that he tipped
material nonpublic information to  Roomy Khan , the former Intel
Corp. executive and stock trader who pleaded guilty to insider
trading charges in 2009.  The SEC hasn’t proven that the information that Bhalla
provided to Khan was material or nonpublic, Timothy P. Crudo, a
San Francisco-based attorney for Bhalla, wrote today in a
document filed today in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan .  “Mr. Bhalla disputes that he gave Ms. Khan any material
non-public information and is left to guess what this witness,
who has serious credibility issues, now claims he said,” Crudo
said.  Bhalla hasn’t been charged with criminal wrongdoing.  Khan pleaded guilty more than eight years ago to leaking
stock tips to Galleon and was sentenced to probation. In 2009,
she pleaded guilty in the current investigation, the biggest
crackdown targeting insider trading at  hedge funds , and is
cooperating with the government.  Raj Rajaratnam, the co-founder of Galleon, is on trial in
New York on insider-trading charges. A jury is deliberating the
case.  Bhalla joined Pleasanton, California-based Polycom in
February 2000 and served as a senior vice president and general
manager of the maker of videoconference systems, according to
the SEC’s complaint. He was placed on administrative leave in
October 2009.  The case is SEC v. Feinblatt, 11-cv-0170, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  