-- 
Sweet? Vicious Jane Austen Left Floor Stained With Blood: Books

-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 
2011-05-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/sweet-jane-austen-was-vicious-left-floor-stained-with-blood-book-review.html
Reading the critic William
Deresiewicz’s takedowns of Susan Sontag, Philip Roth, Richard
Powers (the list goes on) is like watching a big-game hunter
wield an elephant gun against snorting, charging beasts. You may
not approve -- sometimes I do, sometimes I don’t -- but the
nerve and expertise are dazzling.  So the snarkless charm of Deresiewicz’s new book, “ A Jane
Austen Education ,” is about the last thing I would have
expected from a whiz who spent most of the past decade teaching
at Yale. When Deresiewicz writes that literary study is “about
getting back in touch with the ways we used to read -- the ways
people read when they’re reading for fun,” he sounds less like
Harold Bloom than like Pauline Kael.  And when he says, “Love, I saw, is a verb, not just a noun
-- an effort, not just another precious feeling,” he sounds
less like Kael than like John Ruskin. His overall approach is,
of all things, homiletic. The book is half memoir, structured to
show how reading Austen guided him from callowness to maturity;
its subtitle is “How Six Novels Taught Me About Love,
Friendship and the Things That Really Matter.”  Scholarly life must not have been a happy experience for
Deresiewicz, since his  website  reports that his “separation
from academia was a mutual decision.” “A Jane Austen
Education” is so defiantly innocent of theoretical jargon that
at times it feels like a study guide written for young adults.  Big Beast  This effort at accessibility (highly honorable, in my view)
sometimes shorts his subject’s complexity. The author keeps
telling us what a nice lady Jane Austen was, and though the
biographical evidence certainly supports him, it’s also true
that she was a bigger-clawed beast than any of the big game he’s
brought down so far.  Back in 1940 a scholar named D.W. Harding wrote an essay
called “ Regulated Hatred ” which addressed the controlled
viciousness that Austen’s sex and social status forced her to
keep under the surface. Though Harding admitted that his
argument was “deliberately lopsided,” since then no one has
been able to read Austen in quite the same way.  Where I really part company with Deresiewicz is over
“ Emma ,” her masterpiece. The book’s pivotal moment comes when
the “handsome, clever and rich” title character makes a cruel
(but witty) crack about the dullness of a social inferior, a
chattering spinster named Miss Bates.  Moral Hero  Emma isn’t a monster; she feels mortified over the hurt she
has caused a creature who’s harmless and good. But Deresiewicz
goes further, raising Miss Bates to the status of moral hero:  “If her speech bubbled and flowed in an endless stream of
little matters, that was only because, like Austen herself, she
found everything around her so very interesting.”  Mm-hm. I’d love to see Deresiewicz spend an evening in the
company of Miss Bates. At the end of it, I promise you, there
would be blood on the floor. She is indeed sweet and kind, and
also, as Austen never forgets -- though Deresiewicz does -- a
colossal bore.  Yet Deresiewicz seems to have glommed onto Austen’s
underhanded methods himself as he keeps applying her “lessons”
(I wince at that word) to his own life. Reading “Emma” led him
to break up with a girlfriend whose job as a waitress he found
“depressingly unambitious.” “ Pride and Prejudice ” sent him
fleeing from under the thumb of his ogreish father.  “ Mansfield Park ” made him see a group of rich friends as
feckless, cruel and shallow, and he dropped them. The simplicity
of his tone as he’s telling these unflattering stories may allow
you to forget that their subjects are very likely to read them.
That’s beyond snarky. Maybe Deresiewicz’s own hatred could stand
a little regulating.  “A Jane Austen Education” is published by the Penguin
Press (272 pages, $25.95). To buy this book in  North America ,
click  here .  (Craig Seligman is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Craig Seligman  at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 