-- 
Syrian Tanks Storm Banias a Day After 40 Protesters Killed

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-05-07T15:27:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/syrians-take-to-streets-in-defiance-of-army-s-crackdown-activist-arrests.html
Syrian tanks stormed the coastal city
of  Banias  today, and protesters tried to keep them out by
forming human chains amid deadly confrontations with security
forces, according to  Agence France-Presse .  The U.S. called yesterday for a “strong international
response” to Syria’s crackdown. Security forces killed as many
as 40 people and arrested hundreds during demonstrations on
Friday, according to the London-based Syrian Human Rights
 Committee . Syria denied the reports, according to al-Jazeera.  While Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has promised
political changes as he faces the most serious challenge to his
11-year rule, that has failed to halt protests. Demonstrations
began in mid-March, inspired by uprisings that ousted rulers in
Tunisia and  Egypt  earlier this year. Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has battled a rebel insurgency since mid-February that
split the country with  Africa ’s largest proven oil reserves.  “The Syrian government must respond to the Syrian people’s
call for change,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
in a statement yesterday. “It must realize that violence and
intimidation will not answer their call.”  ‘Particularly Troubled’  Clinton said she is “particularly troubled” by reports
that at least 30 people were killed by security forces during
protests. “The Syrian government’s actions are neither those of
a responsible government nor a credible member of the
international community,” she said in her statement.  In Banias, three women were killed during clashes, BBC
Arabic reported, without saying how it obtained the information.
The women were participating in a protest near the port city
when they were killed, said BBC Arabic.  As many as 15 people killed in Homs yesterday, according to
Ammar Qurabi, head of  Syria ’s  National Organization for Human
Rights . State-run Syrian TV said today that 11 members of its
security forces were killed in Homs yesterday.  Snipers were deployed on rooftops, and seven tanks were
sent into the city, Razan Zaitouneh, a Damascus-based human-
rights lawyer and activist, said on her Facebook page. Security
forces fired live ammunition in Latakia, she said. Six people
were killed in Hama, according to Qurabi.  Syrian Amnesty  Syria’s Interior Ministry said 192 persons “involved in
riot acts” turned themselves in to authorities yesterday in
response to a government announcement that those who surrender
between May 2-15 will be exempt from prosecution and punishment,
the official SANA news agency reported today. The ministry said
553 people have so far surrendered.  “Those who turned themselves in were released immediately
after pledging not to repeat any acts that may damage the
security of the homeland and citizens,” SANA said.  The EU yesterday agreed to place sanctions on 13 Syrian
government officials next week and ban them from travelling to
EU nations,  Associated Press  reported, citing an unidentified
official. The restrictions don’t apply to Assad, AP said.  UN Assessment Team  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon is dispatching
an assessment team this weekend to check on humanitarian needs
in Daraa. Assad agreed during a May 4 telephone call to let the
team visit, according to UN spokesman Farhan Haq. Red Cross and
Red Crescent aid began arriving in Daraa yesterday, Haq said.  About 1,500 people gathered in the port city of Latakia
yesterday, said Mahmoud Merhi, head of the  Arab Organization for
Human Rights , in a phone interview from Syria. Five protesters
were killed in the city, Al Arabiya television reported, citing
unidentified opposition officials.  The rallies follow the military assault on Daraa that began
April 25 and the arrest of hundreds of people two days ago in
Saqba, a suburb of the Syrian capital of Damascus.  Assad has blamed the unrest on foreign-led conspirators
subverting legitimate expressions of popular grievances. He has
appointed a new government, ended emergency rule that had been
in place since 1963 and pledged reforms.  Yemen Missile Strike  In Yemen, a missile strike from an American military drone
in a remote region on May 5 was aimed at killing Anwar al-
Awlaki, the American-born cleric believed to be hiding in the
country, the New York Times said today, citing U.S. officials.  Awlaki doesn’t appear to have been killed by the attack,
the officials said, according to the newspaper.  The official Saba news agency reported on May 5 that two
brothers who were senior members of al-Qaeda were killed during
a hunt by security forces.  Yemeni security forces shot protesters in the town of
Maafir, in the province of Taiz, killing a 16-year-old and
injuring 11 people, Bushra al-Maktari, an activist, said in a
telephone interview.  Some shops in Taiz were closed today as students protested
against the regime of President Ali Abdullah Saleh, according to
Farouk Saeed, an activist.  New Proposal  Yemen’s ruling General People’s Congress has come up with a
new proposal to resolve a dispute that has delayed the signing
of a Gulf accord that calls for Saleh to step down within a
month, Mohammed al-Mutawakkil, a member of the opposition Joint
Meeting Parties’ higher council, said today in a telephone
interview from the capital Sana’a.  According to the new proposal, senior ruling party members
will sign the accord with the opposition and then Saleh will
endorse it, said al-Mutawakkil. He said the Gulf Cooperation
Council, which brokered the agreement, forwarded the proposal to
the opposition.  Yemen’s ruling and opposition parties were expected to sign
the accord in the Saudi capital,  Riyadh , on May 1. The ceremony
was canceled after Saleh said he would sign the accord as
chairman of the GPC and not in his capacity as president.  Al-Mutawakkil said the new proposal was unacceptable to the
Joint Meeting Parties, which represents six opposition groups.  “It makes no sense,” al-Mutawakkil. “The president has
said he’s willing to step down, so why doesn’t he sign the
agreement as president?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  