-- 
Cameron’s Victory in U.K. Referendum Weakens His Liberal Democrat Partners

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-05-07T17:31:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/u-k-set-to-reject-electoral-system-revamp-making-coalition-more-strained.html
The U.K.’s governing coalition is set
to enter a new phase of “businesslike” relations, ministers
said, after voters rejected an overhaul of the voting system, a
victory for Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron  at the
expense of his Liberal Democrat deputy, Nick Clegg.  Sixty-eight percent of voters in the  May 5 referendum  sided
with Cameron against the new system that Clegg backed. That was
after the Liberal Democrats suffered their worst local-election
results since the party’s formation in 1988, while the
Conservatives made gains. In  Scotland , nationalists cemented
their hold on power while the Liberal Democrat vote slumped.  After taking power a year ago, Clegg and Cameron joked with
journalists in the garden of 10 Downing Street, the prime
minister’s London residence. Yesterday, senior Liberal Democrats
said the relationship would grow more formal, reflecting tension
after the Conservative-led “No” campaign in the referendum
attacked Clegg personally. The parties remain committed to a
plan to eliminate the bulk of the  budget deficit  by 2015.  The Conservatives “have emerged as ruthless, calculating
and thoroughly tribal,” was how Business Secretary Vince Cable
described his coalition partners in a BBC interview. “But that
doesn’t mean to say we couldn’t work with them.”  Leader Resigns  The Liberal Democrats also lost seats in the Scottish
Parliament, where First Minister  Alex Salmond ’s pro-independence
 Scottish National Party  won the first overall majority since the
129-seat assembly was established in 1999. The result gives
Salmond a second term and paves the way for a referendum on
Scottish independence.  Tavish Scott, leader of the Liberal Democrats in Scotland,
resigned his position today, saying the decision to go into
coalition last year had been responsible for the poor showing.  “I think our ability to demonstrate that we were still
Liberal Democrats not just propping up a Tory government has not
come across in the last year and that is ultimately why we paid
a very, very heavy price” on May 5, Scott told the BBC.  The two coalition parties are “staying together for the
sake of the children,”  Steven Fielding , director of the Centre
for British Politics at Nottingham University, said in a phone
interview. “But there’s going to be tension: the Liberal
Democrats need to show they’re doing Liberal Democrat things,
and Conservatives are going to be asking why Cameron is letting
them get away with it.”  Pre-Election Pledge  Even before the referendum result became clear, Liberal
Democrat Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  attacked his Conservative
Cabinet colleagues.  “There is enormous anger across the Liberal Democrats at
the tactics which were employed by the ‘No’ campaign,” he told
the BBC. “We know that the ‘No’ campaign was funded and run
completely by the  Conservative Party .”  The “No” campaign, aiming to keep the current first-past-
the-post system of electing House of Commons lawmakers, focused
its fire on Clegg, criticizing him for reversing a pre-election
pledge to oppose any increase in student tuition fees. That
decision was taken in coordination with the Conservatives as the
two parties sought to slash  government spending  during their
first year in power.  Huhne said the attacks on his party over the policy would
make it more difficult to persuade Liberal Democrats to agree to
compromises in future.  ‘Outmaneuvered’  “We are going to deliver on our contract,” Huhne said,
while adding that the relationship “is going to be much more
transactional, much more businesslike.”  The Liberal Democrats will “start asking what they’re
getting out of it,” according to  Andrew Russell , the author of
a history of the party, “Neither Left Nor Right?” “The
coalition hasn’t been bad for the Conservatives. The thing that
will annoy the  Lib Dems  most is the sense they’ve been
outmaneuvered,” he said in a telephone interview.  Cameron will encounter resistance from his party if he
tries to make many concessions to Clegg, Bernard Jenkin, a
Conservative lawmaker, told Sky News. “There is very strong
feeling among Conservatives, who are by far the largest party in
parliament, that in some ways too many compromises have already
been made,” he said. “But the big compromise was the
referendum and now we’ve had the referendum, just because it
went the wrong way, why should we re-open the coalition
agreement?”  Electoral Test  In local elections in  England , Clegg’s party lost 695 seats
after results from almost all the 279 local councils contested
were declared. Cameron’s Conservatives gained 81 seats. The main
opposition  Labour Party  added 800 seats.  The votes were the first nationwide electoral test for the
coalition, which was formed after Cameron failed to score an
outright victory over Labour’s  Gordon Brown  in the May 2010
general election. Liberal Democrat support has plummeted since
joining the administration, which is imposing the deepest budget
cuts since World War II.  Clegg made a referendum on moving from the current
electoral system to the “alternative vote” method a
precondition of going into coalition with Cameron. The Liberal
Democrats have always supported a change to the current way of
voting, which hurts smaller parties such as themselves.  ‘Repair Economy’  Clegg told the  BBC  it had been “a really disappointing day
-- this is a bitter blow for all those people like me who
believe in the need for political reform. But the answer is
clear and the wider job of the government, and the Liberal
Democrats in government, will continue: to repair the economy,
to restore a sense of prosperity and jobs and optimism to the
country”  Cameron said the government would survive the split.  “It was always going to be a difficult moment for a
coalition when you have two parties campaigning on different
sides,” Cameron told the BBC. “Now Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats can come together again and provide strong, decisive,
long-term, good government.”  Cable said yesterday there was “very strong support” for
Clegg within the party, dismissing suggestions that he might
face a challenge to his leadership. “No one’s turning on  Nick
Clegg ,” Cable told the BBC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  