-- 
U.S.-Russia Ties at Risk Without Europe Missile-Shield Treaty, Envoy Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-05-06T08:28:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/u-s-russia-ties-at-risk-without-europe-missile-shiled-treaty-envoy-says.html
Efforts to improve U.S.-Russian
relations may be damaged unless the Obama administration agrees
to a treaty guaranteeing that a proposed missile shield won’t
target its former Cold War foe,  Russia ’s envoy to NATO said.  Russia isn’t satisfied with U.S. assurances the shield will
only guard against attacks by so-called rogue states, Dmitry Rogozin said yesterday in a phone interview from Brussels. It
wants the  U.S. Senate  to ratify an accord ensuring that the
system won’t be aimed at Russia’s nuclear arsenal, Rogozin said.  “No one can give us a guarantee that the words of one
president will be respected by the next president,” he said.
Without a binding deal, “we’ll have to spend a lot of money on
new weapons systems, and the U.S. will get zero from political
dialogue with Russia and new problems for its security.”  President  Barack Obama  has sought to “reset” U.S.-Russian
relations, which sank to a post-Cold War low following the ex-
Soviet power’s war with  Georgia  in August 2008. Russia is trying
to capitalize on improved ties to lure foreign investment and
promote its bid to join the  World Trade Organization , which sets
global trade rules.  “The reset does not mean that the two countries have
become close allies or even partners,” said  Masha Lipman , an
analyst from the Carnegie Center in Moscow. “The reset is not
irreversible.”  Russia’s concern about the missile shield escalated May 3,
when the U.S. agreed to station interceptor missiles at a
Romanian air base as part of a system that will also include
facilities in Poland, another former Soviet bloc country.  Not a Threat  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  offered during a visit
to Moscow in March to share missile-launch information and set
up a joint  data center  to soften Russian opposition.  Ellen Tauscher, undersecretary of state for  arms control 
and international security, said the Obama administration sought
to ease Russia’s concern by proposing that it play a role in the
missile-defense system.  “We believe missile-defense cooperation is the best way to
reassure Russia that no element of the U.S. or NATO missile
defenses are a threat to Russia’s strategic deterrent,” she
said yesterday in comments e-mailed to Bloomberg News.  Russian Deputy Defense Minister Anatoly Antonov told
Bloomberg on April 1 that the  Gates proposal fell short of
Russia’s expectations and would “destroy decades of strategic
parity” between the two countries.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  offered at the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization summit in Lisbon last November to take part
in a missile-defense system with the trans-Atlantic alliance,
while insisting that Russia must be an equal partner.  ‘Red-Button’ Rights  In practical terms, this would mean stationing Russian
officers at the command and control center in Brussels and
giving them “red-button” rights to launch interceptor
missiles, Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov said April 7
during an interview in Miami.  It’s clear that the U.S., as the world’s only global
military power, would “never accept any limitations” on the
deployment of the missile-defense system, said Lipman.  This means that the issue once again risks souring ties
between the U.S. and Russia, after a similar dispute during the
presidency of  George W. Bush , she said. At the same time, Russia
faces continued obstacles to its membership of the WTO, which it
has been trying to join for 18 years.  Russian Concerns  Russian leaders complain the shield, which the U.S. says is
needed to guard against missile strikes from countries such as
 Iran  and  North Korea , will blunt their nuclear capability. They
have warned of a new arms race unless Russia is allowed to work
with the U.S. and its allies on missile defense.  In November 2008, during his first state-of-the-nation
address, Medvedev said he would deploy nuclear-capable Iskander
missiles in Kaliningrad, a Russian enclave sandwiched between
NATO members Lithuania and  Poland , to “neutralize” a planned
U.S. missile shield in Poland and the  Czech Republic .  Obama in 2009 scrapped plans for that version of the
project, which had been championed by Bush, opening the door for
cooperation with Russia.  Carmen Romero, deputy spokeswoman for NATO, said the
alliance’s position is that Russia and the alliance should have
separate missile-defense systems that exchange information.  “We will not outsource our security and we do not expect
that Russia would want to do so either,” Romero said yesterday
in a phone interview.  An agreement ensuring that interceptor missiles won’t
target Russian weapons is the “absolute minimum” required to
avoid an escalation between Russia and NATO, said Konstantin Kosachyov, head of the lower house of parliament’s foreign
committee.  “I cannot imagine a situation where we will have normal
relations with the U.S. if this minimum doesn’t happen,”
Kosachyov said in a May 4 interview. The way the U.S. is
behaving “fits into the logic of former President Bush, and not
president Obama,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net 
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  