-- 
SAC’s ‘Cohen Account’ Probed in U.S. Insider-Trading Case

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-05-06T20:33:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/u-s-probing-sac-capital-accounts-as-part-of-insider-trading-investigation.html
U.S. prosecutors are investigating
accounts at SAC Capital Advisors LP, including one run by
founder  Steven A. Cohen , tied to portfolio managers who pleaded
guilty in a nationwide probe of insider trading.  In a March 24 letter filed in Manhattan federal court,
prosecutors said they had recovered records from the hedge fund,
and listed documents tied to the “Cohen Account” that they
made available to defense lawyers. The files are among a growing
amount of data, wiretap-recordings and e-mails involving hedge
funds, companies and individuals accumulated as part of the
government’s investigation.  The “Cohen Account” consists of the best trading ideas
unearthed by the 100 teams at  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC.
The portfolio managers and analysts submit their stock picks to
Cohen and his team, and if he uses them in his account -- and
they make money -- they get paid for their idea.  SAC, a hedge fund with $13 billion under management, has
come under scrutiny as part of the U.S. crackdown on illegal
stock-tipping at  hedge funds , banks, technology companies and
expert networking firms, according to court records.  In February, prosecutors charged two former SAC portfolio
managers with insider trading while working at the fund.  Longueuil’s Plea  Donald Longueuil pleaded guilty April 28 in Manhattan
federal court, telling a judge he “obtained material, non-
public information” from an accomplice in 2008 about  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  He isn’t cooperating with prosecutors.
Noah Freeman, who worked at SAC from June 2008 to January 2010,
pleaded guilty Feb. 7 as part of a cooperation deal with
prosecutors.  Longueuil said during his plea hearing that he was part of
a conspiracy that encompassed his time at SAC. Other alleged
members of the conspiracy charged in the case included Samir Barai, the founder of Barai Capital Management LP in New York.  Barai’s assistant, Jason Pflaum, pleaded guilty in
December. Barai hasn’t entered a plea.  Longueuil named Barai as his accomplice after U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  asked him who he conspired with.  Non-Public Information  “From 2006 to 2010, I conspired with others in Manhattan,
New York to obtain material, non-public information for the
purposes of benefitting these funds,” Longueuil told Rakoff.  Records show Longueuil was at SAC between July 2008 and
July 2010.  Also charged in the probe was Winifred Jiau, a consultant
at Primary Global Research LLC, a company that puts industry
experts in contact with hedge fund traders.  At an April 27 hearing before Rakoff, Jiau’s lawyer said
Freeman, while working at SAC, participated in a telephone call
with Barai and Pflaum to obtain inside information from Jiau.  “The individual, Mr. Pflaum, listened to the call,” said
the lawyer, David Luttinger. “The call was made to another
hedge fund who called an informant who had very specific
information, that was Ms. Jiau,” he said. “The other hedge
fund participant was Noah Freeman who was at SAC at the time.”  Evan Barr, a lawyer for Barai, didn’t return a call seeking
comment.  Jiau Plea Talks  Jiau, who pleaded not guilty, is in negotiations 
with federal prosecutors, according to a May 3 letter filed 
in Manhattan federal court. Her lawyer, Joanna Hendon, didn’t 
return a call seeking comment.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for 
Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, declined to
comment on the investigation. He previously said the firm was 
cooperating with prosecutors and was “outraged” at the actions 
of two former employees.  SAC has said that  insider trading  by Longueuil and Freeman,
both of whom were fired for poor performance, allegedly “began
at their prior firms in 2006,” according to the government.  The March 24 letter that discloses evidence obtained by
prosecutors lists documents they made available to lawyers for
Longueuil and Jiau.  Listed Documents  Among the documents listed under the category “SAC
Capital” in the filings are lists of current and former
employees, personal trading files, the hedge fund’s soft-dollar
payments, outside research consultants and trading records,
including those of Freeman and Longueuil.  Other documents turned over to the defense include files
labeled “Freeman’s ‘Tagged’ Trading into the Cohen Account”
and “Longueil’s ‘Tagged’ Trading into the Cohen Account.”  The government also sought information from SAC involving
communications with or concerning John Kinnucan, founder of
Broadband Research LLC. The Portland, Oregon-based firm provides
research on technology companies to hedge funds, according to an
April 6 letter from the U.S. Attorney.  Kinnucan, who hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing, has
been subpoenaed by the government and is cooperating with the
investigation. The government said in court papers it has SAC
files and wiretap recordings involving Kinnucan.  Sonar, Tribeca  In a third letter, dated April 1, the government disclosed
other evidence it has gathered as part of the insider trading
investigation. This included files on two employees of Barai’s
fund and five workers at his former company, a unit of 
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  called Tribeca Global Management LLC.   The government also collected evidence on 12 employees of 
Sonar Capital Management LLC and one employee of Empire Capital 
Management LLC, according to court filings. Both firms are 
former employers of Longueuil.  The evidence included employee records such as phone calls,
electronic messages and computer files. None of the individuals
mentioned in the letter have been charged with a crime or
accused of any wrongdoing.  Executives at Sonar, Empire and Citigroup either didn’t
return calls or declined to comment.  On April 26, U.S. Senator  Charles Grassley  asked the Financial 
Industry Regulatory Authority to provide information on the 
``potential scope of suspicious trading activity'' at SAC.   Grassley, a Republican from  Iowa , asked Finra Chairman Richard 
Ketchum for copies of all referrals related to SAC sent to the 
brokerage regulator since January 2000, according to a copy of 
the letter obtained by Bloomberg News today.        The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at   kburton@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  