-- 
U.S. Lawmakers Ready Bills to Let Web Users Avoid Tracking

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-05-06T17:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/u-s-lawmaker-readies-bill-to-let-internet-users-avoid-tracking.html
Senator  Jay Rockefeller  said he’ll
introduce “do not track” legislation next week to allow
consumers to protect their personal information from being
collected and used by online companies.  The legislation would let consumers opt out of having
information about their online activities collected and allow
the Federal Trade Commission to pursue enforcement action
against companies that don’t honor users’ requests, Rockefeller,
a West Virginia Democrat, said today in a news release.  “Consumers have a right to know when and how their
personal and sensitive information is being used online, and
most importantly to be able to say ‘no thanks’ when companies
seek to gather that information without their approval,” said
Rockefeller, chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee.  Rockefeller’s announcement is part of increasing U.S.
congressional scrutiny of Internet privacy. House lawmakers
today released draft  legislation  that would require companies to
obtain parental consent for collecting children’s personal data
online and prohibit the use of that information for targeted
marketing.  The privacy debate is also focusing on the ability of
mobile devices to identify users’ locations.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  are scheduled to testify at a Senate Judiciary
subcommittee hearing on May 10 to answer questions about how
they collect data, including the location of consumers, from
smartphones and tablet computers.  Witness List  The Judiciary hearing, chaired by Senator Al Franken, a
Minnesota Democrat, follows criticism of Apple over its data
collection practices.  An April 20 report by two computer programmers said that
the operating system in Apple’s iPhones and iPad tablet
computers logs users’ coordinates along with the time that a
location is visited.  Apple said April 27 that it does not track iPhone users’
location while acknowledging that it collects data on WiFi
hotspots and wireless towers near the device. Apple issued a
software update this week to limit how much of that location
information was being logged or let users turn off the feature.  Guy “Bud” Tribble, Apple’s vice president of software
technology, and Alan Davidson, Google’s public policy director,
were listed as witnesses for the Judiciary hearing next week,
along with officials from the Federal Trade Commission and
 Justice Department , and privacy advocates and researchers.  Children’s Privacy  The draft House bill on children’s privacy, released today
by Representatives Ed Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, and  Joe Barton , a Texas Republican, would limit collection of location
and other personal data on children and teens.  The measure would also create an “eraser button” allowing
parents and children to eliminate “publicly available”
personal information when “technologically feasible,”
according to an e-mailed statement from the lawmakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  