-- 
U.S. Probes Reports of Deaths After Hmong Protests in Vietnam

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-06T06:48:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/u-s-probes-reports-of-deaths-after-hmong-protests-in-vietnam.html
The  U.S. Embassy in Vietnam  said it is
looking into unconfirmed reports of deaths following protests by
ethnic minority Hmong people in a remote mountain area near the
 Laos  border.  Vietnamese soldiers clashed with thousands of protesters
calling for greater autonomy and religious freedom,  Agence
France-Presse  reported yesterday, citing an unidentified
military official. Twenty-eight people were killed and hundreds
are missing, according to Washington-based humanitarian advocacy
group the  Center for Public Policy Analysis .  “We urge all parties involved to avoid violence, to
resolve any differences peacefully and in accordance with
Vietnamese law and internationally recognized human rights
standards,” the U.S. Embassy in Hanoi said in a statement today.
The Embassy is inquiring into “unconfirmed reports of possible
deaths associated with these protests.”  The protests are the third known incident of unrest among
 Vietnam ’s ethnic minorities in the past decade. In 2001 and 2004,
Vietnamese security forces confronted Montagnards in the Central
Highlands protesting religious persecution and the loss of their
homelands, causing at least 1,000 to flee the country.  Vietnam’s  Ministry of Foreign Affairs  said a “large
gathering” of Hmong people took place in Dien Bien province in
the country’s northwestern region after a rumor that a
“supernatural force” would lead them to a “promised land.”  The crowd was incited to call for a separate territory for
Hmong people, “causing disorder, insecurity and an unsafe
situation,” the ministry’s statement said. Local officials have
convinced many to return to their homes, it said.  “Significant numbers of Vietnam People’s Army troops from
 Hanoi , and security forces from Laos, have been deployed for
special military operations directed against the Hmong minority
people,” Philip Smith, the executive director of the U.S.
advocacy group, said in a statement on its website, citing other
non-governmental organizations and people inside the region
where the protests were taking place.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha Bloomberg News at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  