-- 
U.S. Hog-Herd Curbs Seen Raising Pork-Chop Prices as Hormel Costs Advance

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-06T19:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/u-s-hog-herd-curbs-seen-raising-pork-chop-prices-as-hormel-costs-advance.html
U.S. hog producers are unlikely to
increase the size of their herds because of the soaring cost of
livestock feed, AgStar Financial Services Inc. said, signaling
higher expenses for meat processors including  Hormel Foods Corp. (HRL) 
and pricier pork chops at the grocery store.  “There’s just way too much inherent risk to expand your
operation,” said  Mark Greenwood , who oversees $1.4 billion in
loans and leases to the hog industry as a vice president at
AgStar in Mankato, Minnesota. “Anybody involved in the protein
sector, your cost of production is going up exponentially. Pork
at the retail level will have to go up.”  Seaboard Foods LLC, the third-biggest U.S. hog producer,
said this week that the nation’s herd will be little changed
this year. Prospects for increased animal supplies in the U.S.,
the world’s leading pork exporter, have been eroded by feed-corn
prices that are 85 percent higher than a year ago, mostly
because more of the crop is being used to make grain-based fuel,
the company said.  Spot-hog prices, which rose 1 percent to 88.18 cents a
pound yesterday, may climb to 95 cents to 98 cents in the three
months starting June 1, said Altin Kalo, a commodity analyst at
Steiner Consulting Group in Manchester,  New Hampshire .  That would mark a gain of as much as 26 percent from the
average price in that period a year earlier, possibly boosting
expenses for  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest U.S. meat processor.
In April, spot hogs reached 92.71 cents, the highest since at
least 2003, government data showed.  ‘Cost Pressure’  Tight supply is “going to be a cost pressure for both
Tyson and Hormel,” said Ann Gurkin, an equity analyst at
Davenport & Co. in Richmond,  Virginia . “Their input costs are
going to go up as they buy hogs for their processing
facilities.”  Processors probably will pass on higher costs, and
consumers will face higher retail prices, said Gurkin, who rates
Tyson as “buy” and Hormel “neutral.” In February, bone-in
pork chops jumped to $3.751 a pound, the highest since at least
1980, and in March, bacon prices were 24 percent higher than a
year earlier, government data show.  “A lack of expansion is not surprising, given pork
producers’ lack of profitability,” Gary Mickelson, a Tyson
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Tight credit policies by
lenders, high grain prices and regulatory restrictions have
contributed to the lack of profitability, despite record high
hog prices. Consumers will continue to face higher protein
prices as long as these fundamentals remain in place.”  ‘Adequate Supply’  Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson will have an “adequate
supply” of livestock to “efficiently operate” plants, he
said. Hormel, based in Austin,  Minnesota , couldn’t be reached
for comment.  Higher meat prices won’t be enough to spur bigger herds as
long as cost remain high, said  Joe Glauber , the chief economist
at the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Shoppers may pay as much
as 7.5 percent more for pork this year, the agency has  forecast .  The U.S. sow  herd  on March 1 rose 0.5 percent from a year
ago, government data show. AgStar’s Greenwood cited “some
chatter” on the prospect of U.S. producers looking at building
new sow units, he said. If that happens, the pigs wouldn’t come
to market until the second half of 2012, he said.  Rising export demand for U.S. pork helped spur a 9.8
percent rally in hog futures in the past year. On April 1, the
most-active contract on the  Chicago  Mercantile Exchange reached
$1.0435 a pound, the highest since at least 1986.  Profits Return  Producers without hedging strategies made $2 for each
animal sold in March and $4 per head in February, said  Rich Nelson , the director of research at Allendale Inc. in McHenry,
 Illinois . That ended losses in the four months through January.
Nelson had forecast herd expansion to begin at the end of
August, based on the outlook for margins.  In April, hog futures fell 8.3 percent, the most since
October. A slump in the past three weeks means “expansion is
going to be on hold now,” Nelson said. Since hog producers are
projected to be profitable through December, he said the chance
for expansion by the end of the year is “50-50.”  An increase in animal weights will “help mitigate” the
lack of expansion, Nelson said. The average hog carcass reached
211.31 pounds (96 kilograms) on April 22, just below the Jan. 7
weight of 211.59 pounds, which was the heaviest since at least
2002, USDA data show.  Weights averaged 208.24 pounds in April, up almost 3 pounds
from a year earlier.  Pork Demand  Increased export demand for U.S. meat is benefiting
processors, Heather Jones, an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in
Richmond, Virginia, said last week. U.S. pork  shipments  climbed
7.2 percent in February to 387.6 million pounds (175,824 metric
tons) from a year earlier, the latest government data show.  Companies such as  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  that produce and
process hogs may benefit from tighter supplies because of the
rise in prices, Jones said.  She rates the Smithfield, Virginia-based company, the
world’s largest pork processor, as “hold” and Tyson “buy.”.  Hog futures for June settlement fell 0.05 cent to settle at
92.375 cents a pound at 1 p.m. in Chicago.  Triumph Foods LLC is the second-biggest U.S. hog producer
based on 2010 sow statistics, according to AgricultureOnline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 