-- 
Huawei Said to Win Its First U.K. Mobile-Phone Equipment Order

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-05-06T15:47:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/huawei-said-to-win-its-first-u-k-mobile-phone-equipment-order.html
Huawei Technologies Co., China’s
largest phone-network equipment maker, is close to announcing a
wireless network order from Everything Everywhere, the U.K.
joint venture between  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE) ,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  A deal, which would be the Chinese company’s first major
wireless win in the U.K., may be announced on May 9 from
Shenzhen, China, where Huawei is based, said the people, who
declined to be identified before a press event.  Huawei won part of a contract with  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  for fixed-
line broadband gear in 2005. The company was also vying to build
a mobile-phone network this year on the  London Underground  in
time for the  Olympic Games  in 2012 before the operators ended
the project. Huawei had agreed to donate some of the equipment
as part of the deal.  Yingying Li, a U.K.-based spokeswoman for Huawei, declined
to comment. Everything Everywhere also declined to comment.  Chief Executive Officer Ren Zhengfei, who founded Huawei in
1987, built the company into the world’s second-largest maker of
equipment for mobile-phone networks, behind Ericsson AB. After
starting off in  China ’s rural communications market and then
expanding that strategy through Asia and Africa, Ren is now
looking to boost sales in Europe and the U.S. to further close
the gap with its Swedish rival.  Huawei said last month that it planned to double its
workforce in the U.K. to 1,000 people over three years as it
expands its handset unit and seeks corporate clients. The
company is also seeking to gain customers for high-speed fourth-
generation mobile services.  Everything Everywhere, which operates the T-Mobile and
Orange brands, became the largest mobile-phone company in the
U.K. after a merger of the U.K. units of Deutsche Telekom and
France Telecom in 2009. The company had 27.7 million customers
at the end of March, after losing 155,000 users as it shifted
customers to longer contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  