-- 
UBS’s Singh, Metz Quit to Join Citigroup, Credit Suisse

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-05-06T21:18:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/ubs-s-singh-metz-said-to-quit-to-join-citigroup-credit-suisse.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  lost two more U.S. investment
bankers as Sameer Singh quit Switzerland’s biggest lender to
join  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and John Metz departed for  Credit Suisse
Group AG. (CSGN)   Singh will be a managing director at Citigroup’s global
mergers and acquisitions group focusing on industrial clients,
the New York-based bank said in a memo to the staff. Metz left
as UBS’s head of technology communications investment banking
for a similar title with Credit Suisse in  San Francisco ,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the situation.
The person asked for anonymity because the matter is private.  UBS has faced management changes and lost bankers since it
cut its bonus pool by 80 percent in 2008 amid the financial
crisis. Singh is at least the second defection this month to
Citigroup, which said May 4 it hired Kevin Cox, the former head
of the Swiss firm’s  investment-banking  unit for the Americas, as
co-chairman for global industrials investment banking.  Torie von Alt, a UBS spokeswoman, and Credit Suisse’s
 Duncan King  declined to comment. Von Alt has previously said
voluntary attrition at the investment bank is lower than pre-
crisis levels.  Singh has 12 years of experience and will support
Citigroup’s effort to build a North American exclusive sales and
divestitures practice, according to the memo from Mark Shafir,
head of global mergers and acquisitions.  Metz, 44, who spent 12 years at UBS, will join Credit
Suisse in July, the person said. His departure was reported last
month by Reuters and Dealbook.  Departing Bankers  Earlier this week, UBS’ global head of power and utilities
investment banking, James Metcalfe, left for Alinda Capital
Partners LLC, an infrastructure investment firm. Lee LeBrun, the
co-head of mergers and acquisitions for the Americas, plans to
retire this month to spend more time with his family.  Other departures include technology banker Eric Mandl, who
went to Evercore Partners Inc., and metals and mining banker
Dieter Hoeppli, who joined Deutsche Bank AG. Last year, UBS lost
a group of energy bankers led by Stephen Trauber to Citigroup.  In July, Richard Leaman left as chairman of investment
banking to join Moelis & Co., the New York-based investment bank
founded by former UBS executive Kenneth Moelis. In 2009, most of
UBS’s health-care investment-banking group defected to New York-
based Jefferies Group Inc.  Bankers lured by UBS recruiters include Stephen Cummings,
Wachovia Corp.’s head of corporate and investment banking, who
became chairman of investment banking in the Americas last
month, and Eric Rosen of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , named head the
U.S. credit trading and loan portfolio this week. The bank also
hired JPMorgan’s Richard Eisenberg as managing director in the
technology, media and telecommunications banking group, a person
with direct knowledge of the situation said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 