-- 
Ukraine Inflation Rose to 9.4% in April on Food, Utilities

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-05-06T14:16:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/ukraine-inflation-rose-to-9-4-in-april-on-food-utilities-1-.html
Ukraine’s inflation rate rose to the
highest in six months in April as prices for food, alcohol and
utilities increased.  Inflation accelerated to 9.4 percent from 7.7 percent in
the previous month, the statistics committee in Kiev said on its
 website  today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 10
economists was 9.1 percent. Prices rose 1.3 percent in the month
after advancing 1.4 percent in March.  Governments across the globe are trying to combat inflation
driven by oil and food prices. The  European Central Bank  raised
its main interest rate a quarter-point to 1.25 percent in April,
while countries in eastern  Europe , including Hungary, Poland and
 Russia , started raising borrowing costs last year to slow
inflation.  “Food inflation still has room to accelerate in Ukraine in
response to international trends,”  Alexander Morozov , chief
economist for Russia, Ukraine and  Kazakhstan  at HSBC Plc in
Moscow, said before the data. “We expect inflation to moderate
again from May due to seasonal factors and relative stability of
administratively regulated prices.”  Food prices increased 7.9 percent, the office said. Alcohol
and tobacco jumped 19.3 percent and prices for utilities soared
23.6 percent.  Ukraine, which wants to keep price growth below 10 percent
for a second year and has limited grain exports to ease
pressures, raised natural-gas prices for households by 50
percent in August and promised the  International Monetary Fund 
it would increase them again in 2011.  The government also raised electricity prices by 30 percent
from February and again by 15 percent from April. Ukraine
secured a $15.6 billion loan from the IMF last July to cover its
state budget gap and increase gold and foreign currency
reserves.  Producer prices, an early indicator of inflation trends,
rose an annual 20.8 percent in April and advanced 3.4 percent in
the month, the statistics committee said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  