-- 
Hungarian Industrial Growth Rate Misses Economist Estimates

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-05-06T08:49:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/hungarian-industrial-output-rises-less-than-economists-forecast.html
Hungary ’s industrial output rose less
than economists forecast in March, signaling an uneven recovery
from the country’s worst recession in 18 years.  Production advanced a workday-adjusted 9.2 percent from a
year earlier after a revised 14.6 percent in February, the
 statistics office  in Budapest said in a preliminary report
today. The median estimate of three economists in a Bloomberg
survey was 12 percent. Output fell 3.6 percent on the month.  Hungary is looking to the euro region, which buys 60
percent of products made or assembled in Hungary including Audi
cars and Nokia phones, to support its recovery after the economy
fell into a recession during the global financial crisis. Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  wants to boost economic growth to 3.2
percent this year and to as much as 5.2 percent by 2014 from 1.2
percent last year.  "The deceleration from the previous year is partly a result
of the inventory cycle, a generally strong base, tightening in
emerging markets and fiscal austerity in western  Europe ,"  Gyorgy
Barta , a Budapest-based economist at CIB Bank, a unit of  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , said in an e-mail today.  The forint strengthened 0.1 percent to 265.50 per euro at
10:24 a.m. in Budapest. The benchmark BUX stock index fell 0.9
percent to 23,452.7.  ‘Very Volatile’  Output levels slumped across the board in March, led by
telecommunication equipment output, statistician Miklos Schindele told reporters today.  Production grew at the slowest pace in nine months in
December, when export orders dropped and a one-time jump in
telecommunications-equipment sales in November wasn’t repeated.
On a monthly basis, output dropped 13.2 percent in December and
jumped 15.1 percent in January.  "One should not read too much into it as the monthly output
data is very volatile," Zsolt Kondrat, an economist at
Bayerische Landesbank’s MKB Zrt. in Budapest, said in an e-mail.
"Underlying growth is still robust and German industry is still
pulling the Hungarian manufacturing sector along."  Hungarian industrial production may expand an annual 8
percent this year as austerity measures may crimp growth in the
euro area and domestic demand is expected to stay "lackluster,"
Kondrat said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  