-- 
Unilever Can Buy Alberto-Culver After Divestiture, U.S. Says

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-05-06T20:36:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/unilever-can-buy-alberto-culver-after-divestiture-of-vo5-rave-u-s-says.html
Unilever, the world’s second-biggest
consumer goods company, won U.S. approval for its $3.7 billion
acquisition of  Alberto-Culver Co. (ACV)  on the condition it sells the
Alberto VO5 brand in the U.S. and divests its Rave brand.  The divestitures are needed to resolve the competitive
concerns about the transaction, the antitrust division of the
Justice Department said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Without the divestitures required by the department,
consumers would have paid higher prices for value shampoo and
conditioner and for hairspray sold in retail stores,”  Christine Varney , the assistant attorney general in charge of the
antitrust division, said in the statement.  Unilever, based in Rotterdam and London, is expanding in
home and personal-care products as part of a plan to double its
sales. Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman, who joined in 2009
after a career at Nestle SA and  Procter & Gamble Co ., reached a
deal last year to buy Sara Lee Corp.’s body-care operations.  Under terms of the settlement, Unilever can develop the
Alberto VO5 brand outside the U.S. and add hair-care brands such
as Nexxus and TRESemme to its portfolio of brands, which include
Dove, Clear, Suave, TIGI and Sunsilk in hair care and Pond’s and
Vaseline in skin care.  ‘Unilever’s Transformation’  “This acquisition is a further step in Unilever’s
transformation,” Polman said today in a statement. “The deal
enhances Unilever’s presence in attractive, high-growth
categories and brings a portfolio of desirable brands that are
gaining share.”  The Alberto VO5 brand consists of shampoo, conditioner,
hairspray, mousse and other hair styling products. The Rave
brand includes hairspray and mousse products.  The transaction as proposed would have reduced competition
in the market for shampoo, conditioner and hairspray sold in
retail outlets and priced under $2, according to court documents
filed by the  Justice Department . The transaction would have cut
the number of significant competitors in the market segment from
three to two, leaving Unilever with approximately 90 percent of
those markets, the Justice Department said in its statement.  In the case of hairspray, Unilever’s post-merger share of
the market would have been about 46 percent, with the
combination resulting in a “highly concentrated” market, the
Justice Department said.  ‘Disappointed to Sell’  “VO5 was one of the brands that they signaled as being
part of the attraction of the deal when they announced it,”
 Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  New York ,
said today in a phone interview. “I’m sure they’ll be
disappointed to sell it.”  The proposed settlement, along with the department’s
competitive impact statement, will be published in the Federal
Register, as required by the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties
Act. Written comments may be submitted within 60 days, after
which time the proposed settlement must be approved by a judge.  Unilever, the second-largest consumer-goods maker after
Procter & Gamble, won European Union approval in November to buy
Sara Lee’s shower-gel and European detergents business after it
agreed to dispose of the Sanex deodorant and body-wash brand in
the region.  Unilever rose 48 cents, or 2.2 percent, to 22.68 euros in
Amsterdam trading, valuing the company at 68.6 billion euros
($99 billion). The shares have risen 3.2 percent since the
company agreed to buy Alberto-Culver.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  