-- 
Urban Green Energy Targets China to Expand Wind Turbine Sales

-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 
2011-05-06T19:31:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/urban-green-energy-targets-china-to-expand-wind-turbine-sales.html
In late 2006, Nick Blitterswyk, an actuary for
JPMorgan Chase in  New York , felt unfulfilled calculating the
risks on clients’ pension plans. After a year of existential
angst, he launched Urban Green Energy along with his wife and
her mother to manufacture small wind turbines to power homes and
businesses. “It sounds so cliché, but ... I wanted to do
something that meant something. Something to try to help the
world dig out of the environmental quagmire we’re in,” he says.  Blitterswyk, who grew up exploring old-growth forests with his
park warden parents on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, chose
a tough market. His 125-employee New York company is battling
more than 200 manufacturers worldwide that build modern-day
windmills for customers looking for cleaner, cheaper
alternatives to diesel-powered generators in areas off the grid.
In 2009 the global market for small wind turbines, defined as
those that produce 100 kilowatts or less of electricity,
increased 10 percent yet accounted for less than 1 percent of
the total amount of wind-generated electricity, according to the
latest report from the American Wind Energy Assn., an industry
trade group. Nevertheless, UGE, which launched its first product
a year ago, expects to be profitable this year with $12 million
in sales, up fivefold from $2.4 million in 2010, says
Blitterswyk. Next year, he expects revenue to reach $30 million.  While the majority of sales last year came from the U.S. and
 Europe , UGE is banking on emerging economies -- particularly
China -- for future growth.  Developing countries  added more wind
power capacity in 2010 than traditional markets, according to
the Global Wind Energy Council. China surpassed the U.S. last
year in total amount of wind-generated electricity and is
expected to increase output fivefold by 2020, the council says.
Emerging markets are turning to wind power to diversify their
energy sources and reduce imports of expensive fossil fuels.  Khurram Malik, research analyst for green technology at Jacob
Securities, a Toronto investment bank focused on the energy
sector, says there’s little difference in technology among small
turbine manufacturers, so UGE’s success hinges on execution.
“It’s not about the technology,” he says. “It’s about packaging
it up to meet the need.”  FACTORY NEAR BEIJING  Blitterswyk believes he has an advantage over competitors trying
to crack the Chinese market: Unlike its U.S. rivals, UGE owns
its Chinese factory, a 40,000-square-foot facility in Chengde,
outside Beijing. The company is leasing the 25-acre factory site
from the government at no charge for the next 50 years,
Blitterswyk says. The arrangement is possible because
Blitterswyk’s wife, Yun Liu, and her mother, Xiangrong Xie, are
co-founders of the business. As Chinese citizens, they could
more easily navigate the country’s bureaucracy to open a
foreign-owned factory. Most companies hire contract
manufacturers to avoid the expense and uncertainty of  China ’s
complex legal system. Having a Chinese factory lowers
manufacturing costs, cuts the time it takes to develop new
products, and gives the company easier access to the Chinese
market, Blitterswyk says. He expects the factory, along with a
local sales office, will make China UGE’s strongest market and
push overseas revenue to more than half the company’s total
sales this year.  UGE’s turbines cost from $4,000 to $19,000, depending on the
amount of electricity produced. The average installation,
including the price of the product, ranges from $15,000 to
$35,000. The company says its turbines can produce up to 6,000
kilowatt hours of electricity a year, roughly the amount used by
a three-person U.S. household. Outside China, the products have
not been independently tested. Experts are skeptical, given how
makers of small  wind turbines  are notorious for exaggeration.
“You can never believe what a manufacturer says unless there’s
someone who’s independent to verify it,” says James Manwell,
director of the Wind Energy Center at the University of
Massachusetts Amherst. To address the skepticism, the wind power
industry formed an independent certification body called the
Small Wind Certification Council, which is expected to start
issuing certifications this year. UGE expects to be one of the
first to receive the organization’s blessing.  Blitterswyk, 31, and his two co-founders started the company in
late 2007, spending “several million dollars” of their own money
to build the factory and develop the company’s vertical-axis
turbine, which sits upright and catches wind through blades
attached to a vertical shaft that turns the generator. Despite
the number of companies rushing into the business, Blitterswyk
says the potential market for small wind turbines has been
underserved, as the industry has focused over the past 20 years
on building large megawatt turbines. Malik disagrees. He
believes small wind turbines will remain a niche market, with
solar power becoming the mainstream source of renewable energy
for homes and businesses. “It’s a sector in general that we
haven’t liked, and we’re not overly bullish on it right now,” he
says.  That doesn’t mean UGE can’t become a strong business
serving emerging economies. Such regions are expected
to account for more than 40 percent of the world’s wind
power capacity by 2020, with China hosting more than half that
production, according to the Global Wind Energy Council.
Blitterswyk is targeting large government and business
customers. The company expects the Chinese government to install
a million streetlights with hybrid wind and solar power
generators in areas off the electric grid this year. UGE also
plans to couple its larger wind turbines with solar technology
to power the millions of drying rooms found on tea, mushroom,
and chili farms in China and  India . Similar hybrid products will
be available to telecommunication companies to power cellular
towers. Focusing on such markets, particularly in China,
improves UGE’s chances of success. “In China, if you know the
right people,” Malik says, “you’ll do great.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves at
 antonegonsalves@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  