-- 
Vale Posts Record Quarterly Profit on Higher Iron Ore Production, Prices

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-05-06T13:40:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/vale-posts-record-profit-as-base-metals-sales-boost-revenue.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, posted a record quarterly profit as revenue doubled,
fueled by higher sales of metals such as nickel and copper.  First-quarter net income rose to $6.83 billion, or $1.29 a
share, from $1.6 billion, or 30 cents, in the year-ago period,
Rio de Janeiro-based Vale said late yesterday in a filing. Vale
was expected to post per-share profit of $1.11 on an adjusted
basis, the median of 12 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Vale, which is replacing its chief executive officer after
criticism from Brazil’s government, benefited from a doubling of
iron-ore prices in the quarter as demand from China and  India 
increased. Net sales climbed to $13.2 billion as Vale, which has
sought to diversify in recent years, also increased output of
nickel and copper.  “The performance of the base-metals unit surprised
positively,” Rafael Weber, an equity analyst at Geracao Futuro
Corretora, said in a telephone interview from  Porto Alegre ,
Brazil. “Structurally, this business remains quite attractive,
particularly copper, given the supply and demand balance for the
next two years.”  Copper and nickel sales volumes surged 71 percent and 67
percent, respectively, while prices for those metals rose by at
least a third, Vale said. The gain helped offset iron-ore sales
volumes that were little changed as adverse weather and natural
disasters hindered shipments, the company said.  Government Influence  Vale gained 14 centavos, or 0.3 percent, to 44.61 reais in
Sao Paulo trading today at 9:25 a.m. New York time after adding
as much as 1.6 percent. Before today, the stock had lost about
8.3 percent this year, compared with an 8.5 percent decline for
the benchmark Bovespa Index.  The shares have been affected by concerns about government
influence on Vale’s investment decisions and investor skepticism
about the duration of  iron-ore  peak prices, Banco Santander SA
analysts led by Felipe Reis said in a note to clients today.  “The short-term overhang will continue to hinder the
stock’s ability to catch up with its strong medium-term
fundamentals,” they said.  Prices for the iron-ore sold by Vale averaged $126.19 per
metric ton during the quarter, almost double a year earlier.  Vale posted a $1.5 billion gain in the quarter after it
sold its bauxite and alumina assets to Norwegian aluminum
producer Norsk Hydro ASA in February.  Base-Metals Boost  Vale produced 71.5 million metric tons of iron ore in the
three months through March 31, up 3.6 percent from a year ago,
the company said. Nickel production climbed 78 percent to 59,000
tons and copper output more than doubled to 70,000 tons.  “Base-metals operations are expected to continue to
enhance their contribution to our financial performance,” Vale
said in the statement. “Given the demand prospects and the
tightness in supply, with no major projects coming on stream in
2011 and 2012, we expect iron-ore prices to remain hovering
around a high plateau.”  Global steel production may rise 7 percent this year,
spurred by demand in the world’s fastest-growing major
economies, Ernst & Young LLP said in a report this week.  “Last year Vale had quite strong figures and cash
generation and this year it will be even higher,” Leonardo Alves, an equity analyst at Link Investimentos, said May 4 in a
telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . Alves, who rates the stock
an “outperform,” expects Vale to break its record for revenue
and profit this year on higher iron-ore prices and a larger
contribution from the base metals business.  Record Profit  Vale had net income of $17.3 billion last year, which the
company said was the most ever for the  mining industry . Vale is
expected to post annual profit of $27.6 billion on an adjusted
basis this year, according to the average of 16 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest miner
by market value, had net income of $17.1 billion in the last
calendar year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Total iron-ore sales remained little change at 57.7 million
metric tons while pellet sales rose 32 percent in the quarter to
10.3 million metric tons. Sales of both minerals to  China 
increased 2.2 percent to 28.2 million metric tons, or about 41
percent of Vale’s iron-ore and pellets sales in the period.  Vale’s board approved three projects in the quarter,
including the Rio Colorado potash project in  Argentina , which
will require a total investment of $5.9 billion. Vale delayed
the start of the project to the first half of 2014, from a
previously planned startup in the second half of 2013.  Delayed Projects  Three other projects, including Vale’s Totten nickel and
copper mine in  Canada , had their starting date postponed because
of development setbacks. “Delays on project development, civil
engineering works and environmental licensing are causing some
rearrangement of the project execution schedule,” Vale said.  Shares of Vale in Sao Paulo are trading close to their
lowest levels in about seven months amid fears of political
interference with the company and a recent plunge in commodities
prices.  Murilo Pinto de Oliveira Ferreira will replace Chief
Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli  on May 22 after the government,
which holds direct and indirect stakes in Vale, repeatedly
criticized the company for not spending more on domestic steel
and fertilizer output to generate jobs. After the ouster, the
miner agreed to buy a stake in the hydro-power project Belo
Monte and invest about 2.3 billion reais ($1.4 billion).  Vale may invest more in  Brazil  because of government
pressure, Link’s Alves said.  “With the current iron-ore outlook, I don’t think that
will have a big impact on the company,” he said.  The earnings report was released after the close of regular
trading.  (Vale will host a conference call with investors tomorrow
at 11 a.m. New York time.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  