-- 
Vale Spending Cut Fuels Bet on Higher Dividend, BofA Says

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-05-06T18:05:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/vale-may-boost-dividends-after-investment-delays-bofa-says.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s second-largest
mining company, may cut its investment plan for this year by
about 16 percent, boosting speculation of higher dividends.  Total year-end investments may be about $20 billion, less
than the $24 billion included in the company’s budget, Chief
Financial Officer Guilherme Cavalcanti said today on a
conference call with analysts. The company, which last night
announced it delayed the start of four projects, faces
equipment, workforce and licensing “constraints,” he said.  Vale invested $2.74 billion during the first quarter, or
about 11 percent of the planned record capital expenditure for
2011, the company  said  in a regulatory filing yesterday. The Rio
de Janeiro-based company may boost its dividends to $10 billion
if it invests less than planned, Bank of America Corp. said.  “We strongly believe the company’s capex will fall short
of expectations, which supports our view that Vale will pay much
higher than expected dividends,” Bank of America analysts led
by Felipe Hirai in  Sao Paulo  said today in a note to clients.
“Vale continues to face delays and capex overruns.”  Vale reported late yesterday that first-quarter profit
reached $6.83 billion, fueled by higher sales of metals such as
nickel and copper. The company is delaying the start of four
projects because of development setbacks.  “Delays on project development, civil engineering works
and environmental licensing are causing some rearrangement of
the project execution schedule,” it said.  Rio Colorado  The company’s Rio Colorado potash  project  in  Argentina ,
which will require a total investment of $5.9 billion, will only
start in the first half of 2014, compared with a previously
planned startup in the second half of 2013, it said. Vale also
delayed for two years the start of a phosphate rock mine
expansion in  Peru , and for a year the start of its nickel and
copper Totten mine in  Canada . It also delayed for a year the
expansion of a logistics infrastructure project in  Brazil .  “We don’t expect to reach the $24 billion target for
 capital expenditures , we will probably be lower than this, and
our cash generation will be higher than expected as well,”
Cavalcanti said. The company expects its investments to be
“more in the range of $20 billion,” he said.  All of Vale‘s projects have “some kind of delay” for
different reasons and it‘s very difficult to keep the projects
on time, Jose Carlos Martins, Vale’s director for marketing and
sales, said during the same call.  “Even the projects where we already got the licenses we
are not able to keep the same schedule because of other
different constraints that are appearing every day,” he said.  ‘Positive Surprise’  Vale’s investments give the company “room for positive
surprises” on the dividend, Banco BTG Pactual SA analysts led
by Edmo Chagas in  Rio de Janeiro  also said today in a note to
investors. Possible merger and acquisition activities also
remain “a risk,” they wrote.  The company is also renegotiating terms with the Guinean
government over its Simandou iron-ore project, Martins said.
Vale last year agreed to pay $2.5 billion for Guinean iron-ore
deposits, including Simandou North Blocks 1 and 2 and the Zogota
project in Simandou South.  Vale gained 12 centavos, or 0.3 percent, to 44.59 reais in
Sao Paulo trading today at 1:11 p.m. New York time after adding
as much as 1.6 percent earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  