-- 
Vietnam Stocks Retreat on Premier’s Economic Growth Forecast

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-06T06:17:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/vietnam-stocks-retreat-on-premier-s-economic-growth-forecast.html
Vietnam  stocks fell, dragging the
benchmark index down to the lowest level in a week, after Prime
Minister Nguyen Tan Dung gave an economic-growth forecast at the
bottom end of the government’s earlier range.  The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s VN Index fell 1.4
percent to 472.71 at the 11 a.m. local-time close, the lowest
since April 27. The gauge has lost 14 percent in the past year.
Bao Viet Holdings, the country’s biggest listed insurer, sank
4.5 percent to 84,500 dong.  Masan Group Corp. (MSN) , the bourse’s most
valuable company, slumped 4.9 percent to 117,000 dong, the
biggest decline since Feb. 24.  Vietnam is aiming for annual average economic growth of 7
percent over the next five years as the government strives to
tame the fastest inflation since 2008, Dung said at an annual
gathering of the  Asian Development Bank  in Hanoi yesterday. His
forecast compares with a target of 7 percent to 8 percent
average annual growth until 2020 set out in January by Nong Duc Manh, the Communist Party chief at the time.  “It represents an admission on the part of policymakers
that they will not be able to achieve as high a rate of growth
as they want to because of the inflationary consequences of
overly rapid expansion,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-
based senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB. “They will need
to focus on controlling inflation, which means that the policy
to boost growth cannot be as pronounced as in the past.”  Vietnam’s economic growth will slow to 6.2 percent this
year, with high inflation the key challenge facing the country,
the regional development arm of the  United Nations  in Asia
Pacific said in its 2011 regional survey, launched yesterday.  “Lower economic growth means business activities will
decline, which affects investor expectations on corporate
earnings negatively,” said Nguyen Duy Phong, a Ho Chi Minh
City-based analyst at ACB Securities Inc., a stockbroking unit
of Vietnam’s Asia Commercial Bank.  Consumer prices rose 17.51 percent in April from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in 28 months.  --Nguyen Kieu Giang, with assistance from Nicholas Heath in
Hanoi. Editors: Reinie Booysen, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at +84-4-3936-6725 or
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  