-- 
Vitro Allowed to Auction Assets of U.S. Units in Bankruptcy

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-05-06T23:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/vitro-allowed-to-auction-assets-of-u-s-units-in-bankruptcy-1-.html
Vitro SAB, the Mexican glassmaker that
defaulted on $1.2 billion in bonds, won court approval to sell
assets of U.S. units in bankruptcy that rival bidders are vying
for.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Barbara Houser in  Dallas  ruled at a
hearing today that Vitro can auction its Vitro America and Super
Sky Products assets. The company has a deal to sell the assets
to private-equity firm Grey Mountain Partners for $44 million
subject to higher bids. Sun Capital Partners, another private
equity firm that owns a Vitro competitor, offered $45 million.  Vitro put the units into bankruptcy last month amid a fight
with bondholders that tried to force Vitro subsidiaries into
bankruptcy following the company’s default.  Vitro creditors asked Houser to postpone the hearing,
saying the company was rushing to sell without ensuring it was
getting the best price. They also called the deal with Grey
Mountain “deeply flawed” in a court filing.  Creditors pointed to a statement by Vitro’s parent when it
released earnings that Vitro America is a strategic business and
that the parent “is considering maintaining an ownership
participation” in the unit after the sale.  Abid Qureshi, a lawyer for the committee, said at the
hearing that negotiations between Vitro’s parent and Grey
Mountain are ongoing.  “It’s disturbing to say the least,” he said.  Sun Capital Partners, which owns Vitro competitor Arch
Aluminum & Glass Co. Inc., has offered to acquire Vitro America
and other units for $45 million and will provide bankruptcy
financing, according to a court filing.  Vitro said in court papers that Sun Capital’s bid isn’t
superior and that it has no assurance that the offer isn’t just
designed to delay the sale process and gain an edge over its
competitor.  The case is In re Vitro Asset Corp., 10-47470, U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of  Texas  ( Fort Worth ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 