-- 
Washington Post Profit Declines 67% as Kaplan Education Enrollment Drops

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-06T20:12:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/washington-post-profit-declines-67-as-kaplan-education-enrollment-drops.html
Washington Post Co. (WPO)  said first-quarter
profit fell 67 percent after revenue declined in its Kaplan
education unit, which has come under government scrutiny.  Net income dropped to $15.2 million, or $1.87 a share, from
$45.4 million, or $4.91, a year earlier, the Washington-based
company said today in a statement. Revenue declined 6.9 percent
to $1.06 billion.  The company, which also owns the Washington Post newspaper
and cable television assets, said results were affected by a
decline in new students at Kaplan, with enrollments off 23
percent at Kaplan University and Kaplan Higher Education
campuses. Kaplan’s operating earnings for the first quarter fell
73 percent and revenue slid 10 percent to $640.6 million.  Results included non-operating expenses of $24 million,
including $30.7 million for the writedown of an investment in
 Corinthian Colleges Inc. (COCO) , the company said. The expense a year
earlier was $3.3 million.  Post Co. said it expects Kaplan’s operating income to
continue to decline “very substantially” in 2011. The company
had said potential rulemaking by the U.S. Department of
Education could impact Kaplan’s future operating results.  For-profit colleges, including Kaplan, are facing increased
regulations as they undergo state and federal investigations.
Democratic Senator  Tom Harkin  of  Iowa , chairman of the Senate
education committee, has held four hearings on for-profit
colleges and at least four state attorneys general are
investigating the companies.  Newspaper Results  Education companies get as much as 90 percent of their
revenue from federal student grants and loans. The Education
Department is proposing a set of rules, called “gainful
employment,” that would tie access to such aid to students’
incomes and loan repayment rates. The department sent the rules
to the White House Office of Management & Budget May 2, the last
step before formal publication.  Revenue at the newspaper division, which also includes the
Herald of Everett,  Washington , was little changed at $155
million. The unit had an operating loss of $12.8 million,
compared with $13.8 million a year earlier.  Washington Post fell $20.31, or 4.7 percent, to $412.25 at
4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have declined 6.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  