-- 
Wells Fargo Mortgage Chief Mark Oman to Retire by End of Year

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-06T19:27:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/wells-fargo-mortgage-chief-mark-oman-to-retire-by-end-of-year.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
mortgage lender, said home loan chief Mark Oman will retire by
the end of 2011 after delaying the move for three years to
complete the merger with Wachovia Corp.  A replacement for Oman, head of the mortgage and consumer
finance businesses, will be announced “well in advance” of his
retirement, the San Francisco-based bank said today in a
statement. Mike Heid and Cara Heiden, who report to Oman as
co-presidents of Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, will retain their
current roles, the bank said.  “After our merger with Wachovia was announced in October
2008, I asked Mark to delay his retirement,” Chief Executive
Officer  John Stumpf  said in the statement. “We needed Mark’s
expertise to help guide us through the integration of our
mortgage businesses and to provide executive oversight for our
newly acquired Wachovia Pick-A-Payment portfolio.”  Oman, who started at Wells Fargo in 1979, steered the
bank’s mortgage business to become the largest in the U.S. as
competitors pulled back or collapsed. Wells Fargo, the No. 2
mortgage servicer, had $9.7 billion in revenue from mortgage
banking, 11 percent of the total, in 2010.  Wells Fargo rose 14 cents to $28.27 at 3 p.m. today in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. It has declined about 8.6
percent this year.  Wells Fargo raised its estimate of potential excess legal
expenses by 42 percent to a maximum of $1.7 billion as it
prepares for new costs tied to its mortgage practices, according
to a filing today.  Wells Fargo was among lenders that have signed consent
orders with federal regulators designed to curb any abuses, and
 attorneys general  in 50 states are investigating mortgage
servicing and foreclosures at the nation’s biggest banks.
Regulators could still seek civil penalties from the
investigation while other agencies, including the  Department of
Justice , continue to scrutinize its operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 