-- 
William Blair Wins Dismissal of Suit Over Chicago Parking Meter Contract

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-06T22:41:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/william-blair-wins-dismissal-of-suit-over-chicago-parking-meter-contract.html
The William Blair & Co. investment
firm won dismissal of a Chicago resident’s lawsuit accusing it
of failing to properly assess the value of a $1.15 billion, 75-
year contract to privatize the city’s parking meters.  Jennifer Bunting sued the firm in September for negligence,
seeking class-action, or group, status on behalf of all of the
third-biggest U.S. city’s 2.8 million residents as well as
unspecified money damages.  The city leased its meters to a partnership led by  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  in December 2008. The Chicago-based Blair firm was the
city’s outside financial adviser on the plan.  “The city was paid, conservatively, $974 million less for
this 75-year lease than the city would have received” from the
revenue generated by its 36,000 meters during that time, Bunting
alleged in her complaint, citing a report by the city’s
inspector general.  Throwing out the case, Illinois state court Judge Kathleen Pantle said that while Bunting claimed the undervaluation would
lead to future tax increases, she hadn’t identified a specific
injury and had no standing to sue.  “Even if, someday in the future, taxes go up, there is and
will be no way to fairly trace them back to this particular
lease transaction and Blair’s opinions on it in particular,”
Pantle said in an April 17 ruling.  Bunting can return to court if she sues on behalf of the
city as one of its taxpayers, Pantle said.  “It was dismissed but not on the merits,” Bunting’s
lawyer, John Xydakis, said today in an e-mailed statement. “If
we file, it will be a new case.”  Tony Zimmer, a spokesman for William Blair, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment today.  Allianz Capital Partners, a unit of Munich-based Allianz
SE, and the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority are partners with New
York-based Morgan Stanley in the leasing group, called Chicago
Parking Meters Venture LLC.  The case is Bunting v. William Blair & Co. LLC, 10CH40418,
Cook County,  Illinois , Circuit Court,  Chancery Division 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  