-- 
Woodside Would Buy Partner’s Stake in Browse LNG Project, Voelte Says

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-05-06T07:26:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/woodside-petroleum-says-still-in-talks-with-shell-about-stake.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,  Australia ’s
second-largest oil producer, said it would acquire a partner’s
stake in the proposed Browse liquefied natural gas project
should one of the companies opt to sell.  “We’ve told any one of our Browse partners, if they want
out, we’ll buy their interest,” Chief Executive Officer Don Voelte said to reporters in  Melbourne  today. “We’ll be very
happy to buy their interest.”  The $30 billion Browse venture led by Perth-based Woodside
is among more than a dozen proposed LNG developments in
Australia seeking to tap rising Asian demand for less-polluting
alternatives to coal.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , BP Plc,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  have stakes in the project.  “This is big money, and the partners need to be aligned,”
David Wall, a Perth-based analyst at Hartleys Ltd., said in a
phone interview last month. “When you have large global oil and
companies with different agendas, it is tricky.”  The companies aim to make a decision to proceed with the
venture in  Western Australia  in the middle of 2012, Voelte
reiterated today. Mitsubishi Corp. is interested in Browse,
spokesman Shunsuke Nanami said in March, without specifying
whether the Japanese company wanted to buy a stake.  The partners plan to liquefy the gas from the Browse Basin
fields at a hub in the Kimberley region of Western Australia
about 60 kilometers (37 miles) north of Broome.  An announcement about a replacement for Voelte, who plans
to step down this year, is expected “very soon,” he said.  Woodside remains in discussions with The Hague-based Shell
about the European oil company’s 24 percent stake in the company,
Voelte said today. Woodside was “surprised” when Shell decided
to sell 10 percent of the energy company last year and wanted to
be “proactive” in talking with Shell should the oil producer
move to sell the remaining shares, Voelte said in February.  “I’d like to be part of the process,” Voelte told
reporters in Perth last month. “We believe the last sell-down
wasn’t the best thing for the rest of our shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 