-- 
Yen Falls From Seven-Week High on Intervention Speculation; Aussie Surges

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-05-06T11:11:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/yen-falls-from-seven-week-high-as-japan-may-intervene-dollar-weak-on-jobs.html
The yen fell from the highest level in
seven weeks against the dollar on concern  Japan  will intervene
in  currency markets  to curb recent gains that may damage the
competitiveness of the nation’s exporters.  Japan’s currency also weakened versus the euro on
speculation investors took advantage of the yen’s advance to a
five-week high to sell it. The Australian dollar surged after
the nation’s central bank said it will likely raise interest
rates “at some point.” The Dollar Index declined before data
that economists said will show U.S. job growth slowed in April.
Commodities fell for a fifth day, extending the biggest rout
since December 2008.  “It’s a bit of respite after the sharp correction we’ve
seen over the last couple of days in risk assets,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. in London. “There’s speculation as well, and that will
grow, that Japan alongside the G-7 could intervene again to
weaken the yen, although we think that’s a relatively small
chance in the near term.”  The yen weakened to 80.22 per dollar as of 7:09 a.m. in  New
York  from 80.07 yesterday, when it reached 79.57, the strongest
level since March 18. The currency fell 0.1 percent to 116.59
per euro, after earlier posting the sharpest intraday decline
since April 27.  The dollar was little changed at $1.4528 per euro from
$1.4539. The greenback is still headed for its first weekly
advance in three versus  Europe ’s currency, having risen 1.9
percent.  Yen’s Gains  Japan’s currency strengthened beyond 80 per dollar
yesterday for the first time since Group of Seven nations
intervened in markets on March 18 to weaken the yen. The
currency had surged to a postwar high of 76.25 the day before
the coordinated action, amid speculation Japanese investors
would repatriate assets to pay for reconstruction from a record
earthquake and a deadly tsunami on March 11.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano and Finance MinisterYoshihiko Noda said today Japan will closely watch the foreign-
exchange market, while Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said the yen’s volatile movements are troublesome. A
stronger yen reduces the value of overseas income at Japanese
companies when converted into their home currency. Markets in
Tokyo reopened today after three holidays.  “Given what happened yesterday, when we had a very good
batch of  risk aversion , I think dollar-yen is a very good buy,”
said Jens Nordvig, global head of G10 currency strategy at
Nomura Holdings Inc.  Stocks, Treasuries  He spoke on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with
 Francine Lacqua .  The dollar declined before data today that may show the
U.S. job market’s recovery is losing momentum. U.S. employers
added 185,000 jobs in April after an increase of 216,000
positions in the previous month, according to the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the
Labor Department’s report.  “We’re forecasting U.S. non-farm payrolls of 165,000 in
April, below market consensus,” said  Tohru Sasaki , head of
Japan rates and foreign-exchange research at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in  Tokyo . “Should this data be weak as we expect, the
dollar-yen will likely decline and break 80 again on the back of
falling stocks and U.S. yields.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.9 percent today and the
Stoxx Europe 600 was little changed after three days of
declines. Ten-year Treasury yields were also little changed at
3.16 percent after slipping seven basis points yesterday.  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index, which tracks the dollar against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, slipped 0.1
percent after climbing to 74.261, the highest since April 26.  The Australian dollar climbed against all its major
counterparts after the  Reserve Bank  said higher interest rates
may be needed to contain inflation.  The outlook “suggests that further tightening of monetary
policy is likely to be required at some point for inflation to
remain consistent” with a goal of 2 percent to 3 percent in the
medium term, the central bank said.  The so-called Aussie jumped 0.9 percent to $1.0672, and
gained 1.3 percent to 85.79 yen.  The euro fluctuated against the dollar as data showed
 Germany ’s industrial output rose 0.7 percent in March, after a
1.6 percent increase the prior month, according to the Economy
Ministry in Berlin.  ECB Monitoring Inflation  The single currency plunged yesterday after  European
Central Bank  left its benchmark interest rate at 1.25 percent.
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled the central bank will
wait until after June to lift borrowing costs again. The ECB
will monitor inflation risks “very closely,” Trichet said at a
press conference. Inflation accelerated to 2.8 percent last
month and economic growth has gathered momentum.  ECB council member  Ewald Nowotny  said markets have “over
interpreted” the central bank’s message yesterday and policy
makers “should not be interpreted as being dovish.” He spoke
with reporters in Helsinki today.  “The ECB is still likely to raise rates, albeit at a
gradual pace,” said  Masanobu Ishikawa , general manager of
foreign exchange at Tokyo Forex & Ueda Harlow Ltd., Japan’s
largest currency broker. “This will probably be a positive for
the euro versus the dollar and the yen.”  The ECB will boost its benchmark rate by 77 basis points in
the next 12 months, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index
based on swaps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 