-- 
Youku Reviews Possible Acquisitions as Online Video Owner Plans Share Sale

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-05-06T05:05:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/youku-com-to-look-at-possible-acquisition-opportunities-ceo-koo-says.html
Youku.com Inc. (YOKU) , owner of  China ’s
biggest online-video site, said it will review possible
acquisitions as the company plans to sell new stock to fund
expansion.  “As we see the increasing flow of capital from the public
and private market into the online video sector, we want to
ensure we have a clear leadership on all fronts,” Chief
Executive Officer Victor Koo said in a conference call today.
Potential acquisitions would come amid expected industry
consolidation, Koo said. “We will look at those opportunities
as they come on a very prudent basis.”  Youku will offer new stock to boost its capital about six
months after raising $233.3 million from its initial public
offering in  New York . The Beijing-based company is increasing
advertising sales as more than 200 million Chinese  Internet
users  view videos on its website. Its shares have more than
quadrupled in U.S. trading since their debut in December.  “You are going to see an increase in both the number of
advertisers and the average revenue per advertiser,” Koo said.  As much as $600 million of Youku stock may be offered in
the proposed sale, according to a registration document the
company filed to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
after the close of trading yesterday. Koo declined to specify
how much the company will raise from the stock sale.  Youku’s American depositary receipts rose 3.8 percent to
$57.60 in New York trading yesterday before the stock offer
filing. That compares with the stock’s IPO price of $12.80.  Youku yesterday reported its first-quarter net loss shrank
to 46.9 million yuan ($7.2 million) from 51.2 million yuan a
year earlier. Revenue more than doubled to 128 million yuan from
48.6 million yuan.  Second-quarter revenue will increase between 125 percent to
135 percent compared with last year, Youku said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will manage Youku’s proposed stock
offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  