-- 
Yuan Forwards Complete Weekly Drop as Commodities Prices Slide

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-05-06T09:05:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/yuan-forwards-set-for-weekly-loss-as-commodities-prices-slide.html
Yuan forwards had their biggest weekly
loss this year on speculation slides in commodities prices will
deter  China , the world’s No. 1 importer of copper, cotton and
soybeans, from allowing faster appreciation to damp inflation.  The contracts also weakened as a Purchasing Managers’ Index
indicated manufacturing is cooling, fanning speculation policy
makers will resist yuan gains that may hurt exports. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of commodities has lost 12 percent
so far this week, poised for its biggest loss since December
2008. Inflation reached a 32-month high of 5.4 percent in March
and is expected to peak before June,  Fan Gang , a former academic
adviser to the People’s Bank of China, said yesterday.  “Investors are reassessing the degree China would need to
appreciate its currency to contain imported inflation,” said
Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB in
 Hong Kong . “The PMI data was softer and if the government is
confident that inflation will peak soon, we may not see the
currency gaining as much as it did in April. Recent commodity-
price declines could also ease China’s inflationary pressure.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards dropped 0.81 percent
this week to 6.3565 per dollar as of 16:34 p.m. in Hong Kong.
The contracts reflected bets the yuan will strengthen 2.2
percent from the spot rate of 6.4938, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The yuan closed little changed in  Shanghai , ending
a run of seven weekly gains that drove the currency to a 17-year
high of 6.4892 on April 29, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System.  PBOC Policy  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan fell 0.36 percent
this week to 6.4830 per dollar. The People’s Bank of China set
the yuan’s reference rate 0.03 percent stronger today at 6.5003
per dollar, before U.S.-China economic talks next week. The
fixing was 6.4990 on April 29, the strongest level since July
2005.  Exchange-rate policies aren’t likely to change
“dramatically in the foreseeable future,” Fan said in an e-
mail to Bloomberg News late yesterday. China’s monetary policy
may shift to “less tightening” in the second half of this year
after inflation likely peaked in April or this month, he said.  The price of crude oil dropped 15 percent this week as U.S.
services and employment data indicated the world’s biggest
economy is slowing. China is the second-largest importer of the
fuel and, according to the China Petroleum & Chemical Industry
Association, bought 54 percent of the crude it used in 2010.  U.S.-China Talks  U.S. officials will press their Chinese counterparts at a
meeting next week to let the yuan strengthen more rapidly, a
Treasury Department official said yesterday. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will
meet with Chinese officials including Vice Premier Wang Qishan
and State Councilor Dai Bingguo on May 9 and 10 in  Washington .
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and People’s Bank of
China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan will also participate.  Geithner has reiterated this week ahead of the meetings the
Obama administration’s position that China should let the yuan
strengthen. Some U.S. lawmakers say China’s currency policy
gives the nation’s exporters an unfair competitive advantage.  The yuan will appreciate 3.1 percent to 6.30 per dollar by
the end of this year, leading gains among  Asia ’s 10 most-used
currencies, according to the median estimates in Bloomberg
surveys of analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  