-- 
Yuck, McQueen’s Bumster, New Brandenburgs, Dinos: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-05-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/yuck-mcqueen-s-bumster-25-spring-for-music-dino-beauty-n-y-weekend.html
Fashion provocateur  Alexander McQueen 
gave us those “bumster” low-rise trousers for which blame will
surely be eternal.  But he also dreamed up wildly inventive costumes which you
will find at “Savage Beauty.” On view are about 100 ensembles,
including the last collection he did before committing suicide
at age 40.  One dress combines painted gold duck feathers with images
from medieval eccentric Hieronymus Bosch. (It was finished by
Sarah Burton,  Kate Middleton ’s wedding dress designer.) Bjork,
Rihanna and Lady Gaga were also aficionados of his work.  At the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art’s Costume Institute until
July 31.  The museum and its bars are open late on Friday and
Saturday. Fifth Ave. at 82nd St. Information: +1-212-535-7710;
 http://www.metmuseum.org .  Friday Evening  Head over to  Carnegie Hall  for the first night of “Spring
for Music,” a brand-new festival showcasing orchestras with
clever and creative programming ideas.  David Hyde Pierce introduces “The New Brandenburgs,” six
works inspired by Bach and commissioned by the Orpheus Chamber
Orchestra.  You’ll hear Pulitzer Prize-winning composer Paul Moravec’s
“Brandenburg Gate,” and “Sea Orpheus” by Sir Peter Maxwell Davies, who borrows techniques from Bach’s “Musical Offering”
and “The Art of Fugue.”  Other participating orchestras include the Dallas Symphony,
The Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra and the Orchestre symphonique
de  Montreal .  Runs until May 14, and all tickets are $25!  57th St. and 7th Ave. Information: +1-212-247-7800;
 http://www.carnegiehall.org .  Saturday  Manhattan is abuzz with creative ferment this weekend: The
New Museum has organized a “Festival of Ideas for the New
City,” with workshops, symposia, exhibitions and performances
at various downtown venues.  Rem Koolhaas’s “Cronocaos” is a collection of photographs
and objects focusing on preservation and destruction, on view at
the museum’s annex at 231 Bowery.  Richard Long’s “Flow and Ebb,” using raw materials from
nature, is installed at Sperone Westwater.  Plus there will be an all-day street fair along the Bowery,
with more than a hundred grassroots organizations presenting
their ideas and wares in newly-designed, brightly-colored
slinkies called “Worms.”  235 Bowery. Information: +1-212-219-1222;
 http://www.newmuseum.org .  It’s also the second annual New York Gallery Week, with
more than 60 solo exhibitions and other happenings. There’s a
Chelsea walking tour led by Whitney curator Carter Foster, an
artist talk with Subodh Gupta at Hauser and Wirth, and a book
signing with William Kentridge at Marian Goodman Gallery.  Black Lake, an art-music duo comprised of Susan Jennings
and Slink Moss that uses video, sounds, words, collage, drums
and shadows, performs at David Nolan gallery.  Information:  http://newyorkgalleryweek.com .  Saturday Night  Yuck, the tartly-named, London-based band, plays the  Bowery
Ballroom . Just kids during the Kurt Cobain years, the musicians
deliver straight 90s revivalism, evoking sentimentality,
incredulity, perhaps a touch of outrage.  Their songs pack a strong melodic punch: In the era of
hazy, electronic bedroom pop, Yuck’s guitar squalls cut through
those chill-waves like a power party-boat.  Though their riffs sound earnest, how serious can a band
called “Yuck” be?  6 Delancey St. Information: +1-212-533-2111;
 http://www.boweryballroom.com .  Sunday  There’s no ignoring the sauropod in the room: The  American
Museum of Natural History  has a new super-sized visitor -- a 60-
foot-long Mamenchisaurus.  The fern-nibbling, long-necked beauty is the centerpiece of
the tech-savvy, interactive exhibition “The World’s Largest
Dinosaurs,” nicely complementing the museum’s great collection
of fossils, bones and models.  There’s even a hands-on “dig pit,” where, with goggles,
chisel and brush, you can satisfy your inner paleontologist.  Central Park West at 79th St. Information: +1-212-769-5100;
 http://www.amnh.org .  After, grab a brew and the sweetest lobster roll in
 Manhattan  at Luke’s Lobster, which uses meat fresh from  Maine .  426 Amsterdam Avenue at 81st St. Information: +1-212-877-
8800.  Sunday Afternoon  Stroll across the park to hear the sizzling Sheryl Bailey
4, featuring the “guitar goddess” herself, Jim Ridl on piano,
Gary Wang on bass and Shingo Okudaira on drums.  The jazz quartet will play tunes from their new album “For
All Those Living,” which celebrates the healing power of music.  A free set at 2 p.m. at the  Ronald McDonald House , 405 E.
73rd St. Information: +1-212-639-0100;  http://www.rmdh.org .  Sunday Matinee  The  New York City Ballet  opens its spring season with a
tribute to founder George Balanchine.  His brilliant choreography to the music of Stravinsky
ranges from the jazzy, energetic large ensemble work, “Symphony
in Three Movements,” to the stately “Monumentum pro
Gesualdo.”  Looking ahead, Wendy Whelan and Patti LuPone star in Lynne Taylor-Corbett’s new production of “The Seven Deadly Sins,”
Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht’s sardonic take on decadence.  The world premiere takes place at the ballet’s spring gala
on May 11.  David H. Koch Theater,  Lincoln Center . Information: +1-212-
870-5570;  http://www.nycballet.com/nycb/home .  (With assistance from Daniel Billy. Zinta Lundborg is an
editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 