-- 
China Paying ‘Close Attention’ to U.S. Debate on Increasing Debt Ceiling

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-06T08:33:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-06/zhu-says-china-will-push-forward-with-improving-yuan-system.html
China , the biggest foreign holder of
Treasury notes, is closely watching the debate over raising the
U.S. debt ceiling and wants the Obama administration to do more
to curb the deficit, Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said.  “We are paying close attention to the domestic discussion
in the U.S. on debt and deficits,” Zhu told reporters in
Beijing today. “We hope the U.S. can take effective measures
toward fiscal reorganization just as President Obama
suggested.”  His comments came days before about 30 top Chinese
officials travel to Washington for an annual meeting on economic
and military cooperation. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
will meet his counterpart Vice Premier Wang Qishan for two days
of talks beginning May 9 and press the U.S. case for allowing
China’s currency to appreciate further.  Geithner has said the U.S. can borrow until Aug. 2 after
reaching the $14.29 trillion debt limit this month. Matthew Zames, chairman of a Treasury advisory panel and a managing
director at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said last week that failure to
raise the ceiling could trigger “another catastrophic financial
crisis.”  President  Barack Obama  has offered the outlines of a plan
to reduce the growth of the debt by $4 trillion over 12 years
through a combination of spending cuts and tax increases. House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, has
proposed cutting spending by $6 trillion over a decade in part
by privatizing Medicare and capping Medicaid spending.  ‘Fiscal Foundation’  The U.S. has to take deficit-reduction measures “in order
to improve the U.S. fiscal condition and to build a solid fiscal
foundation for the long term sustainable growth of the  U.S.
economy ,” Zhu said. China held $1.15 trillion in Treasuries as
of the end of February, more than any other country.  “The U.S. certainly knows that the Chinese are probably
the most important customer” for Treasuries, said Cliff Tan,
head of emerging-markets research at Societe Generale SA in  Hong
Kong . “In the event of the unthinkable happening in Congress
failing to raise the debt ceiling, you’re going to have a major,
major earthquake in global fixed-income markets.”  Zhu said China “will push forward” on improving its
currency system and that its focus was on improving the quality
of its  exchange-rate  mechanism while U.S. officials push for
faster yuan appreciation.  ‘Intensify Communication’  “China is ready to intensify communication with the  United
States ” on the yuan, Zhu said. “We have some differences on
some specific issues and differences will be addressed through
communication.”  The yuan has appreciated 5.1 percent against the dollar
since the last annual meeting between the U.S. and China took
place last May in Beijing. Still, the U.S. had a record $273.1
billion trade deficit with China last year as economic growth in
both countries accelerated.  Zhu also said that currency policy is the “sovereign
right” of every country. Vice Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai said
at the same briefing that China’s relations with the U.S.
“enjoy a strong momentum of growth.”  Geithner said May 4 in  Washington  that the U.S. wants China
to let the yuan “move in response to market forces more
rapidly.” That message will be conveyed next week, David Loevinger, the Treasury’s senior coordinator for China, told
reporters in Washington yesterday.  ‘Press China’  “We are going to press China to let its exchange rate
adjust at a faster pace to correct its still-substantial
undervaluation,” Loevinger said. “China continues to intervene
massively in foreign-exchange markets to constrain the
appreciation of its currency.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards dropped 0.6
percent this week to 6.3455 per dollar as of 11:04 a.m. in Hong
Kong. The contracts reflected bets the yuan will strengthen 2.4
percent from the spot rate of 6.4959, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  A rising yuan and falling dollar reduces the value of
China’s holdings of Treasury and other debt. Smaller U.S.
deficits may strengthen the dollar and boost the value of
China’s holdings.  “Reduced U.S. fiscal spending may lead to a higher
possibility of the U.S. dollar appreciation, therefore it helps
China to maintain the value of the  U.S. debt  it holds,” said  Li
Jun , a Shanghai-based strategist at Central China Securities
Holdings.  Arrests and Detentions  While Geithner meets with Wang, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will meet with State Councilor Dai Bingguo amid
increasing concern by the U.S. about a series of arrests and
detentions of advocates for more political openness in China
following rallies in February inspired by revolts in the Middle
East.  The arrests affect the broader relationship between the
world’s two biggest economies, U.S. Assistant Secretary of State
for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor Michael Posner said last
week in Beijing after meeting Chinese officials.  Posner and his team raised concerns about the arrest of
artist Ai Weiwei and made a request to see Liu Xia, the wife of
jailed Nobel laureate  Liu Xiaobo .  Cui said that “the Chinese people should have the final
say” on the improvement of the country’s human rights
situation.  “We also hope that the outside world can take a realistic
approach when observing China’s human rights issues, or to use a
trendy phrase, please have a sunnier mentality,” Cui said.  --Michael Forsythe, Yidi Zhao. With assistance from Ian Katz and
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington. Editors: John Brinsley, Peter
Hirschberg  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Forsythe at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Yidi Zhao at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  