-- Landau Says Regulation Best for Managing Capital Spillovers
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-08-24T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/landau-says-regulation-best-for-managing-capital-spillovers.html
Central bankers should pursue
regulation rather than monetary policy-coordination to limit
threats to their economies from increasing global capital flows,
according to a former Bank of  France  official.  In a paper presented to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas
City’s annual symposium today in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , Jean-Pierre Landau said  interest rates  near zero in the major
economies have increased the amount of liquidity worldwide.  “The main challenge will be to manage the consequences of
monetary policies and their evolutions on cross-border liquidity
movements,” Landau said. “In the longer run, policy choices on
global liquidity will determine the shape of global  capital
markets , as they will orient countries’ incentives in opening
and deepening (or not) their financial systems.”  Countries will face a choice: Erect barriers to currency
flows, or offset them by boosting currency reserves, he said. If
decisions are taken under the pressure of circumstances, then
the international financial system could fragment and shift
toward more local banking systems.  Such segmentation could be harmful over time, given
differences between economies that would be better managed if
financial markets were more open, he said.  The challenge is for public policy to make flows safer,
said Landau. Because  central banks  have to focus their policies
on the needs of their own economies, they would resist cross-border coordination over interest rates and asset purchases.  That means the case is stronger for “more proactive and
coordinated macro-prudential interventions,” Landau said.
Macro-prudential regulation is aimed at reducing the risk of the
financial system as a whole.  “The gains from formal coordination should be sought in
the regulatory and financial structures areas rather than
monetary policies,” he said.  Landau was the Bank of France’s deputy governor from 2006
to 2011 and is now a visiting professor at the Woodrow Wilson
School of Public and International Affairs at  Princeton
University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  