-- Australian Opposition’s Growing Poll Lead Signals Abbott Win
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-08-24T04:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/australian-opposition-s-growing-poll-lead-points-to-abbott-win.html
Australia’s opposition Liberal-National coalition widened its lead over the Labor government in
an opinion poll, signaling leader Tony Abbott may replace  Kevin Rudd  as prime minister after the Sept. 7 election.  Support for the coalition rose to 53 percent on a two-party
preferred basis this week from 52 percent two weeks earlier,
while those voters backing the ruling  Labor party  fell one point
to 47 percent, according to a Herald-Nielsen poll published in
the Sydney Morning Herald newspaper today. Support for Rudd as
preferred prime minister fell to 48 percent from 50 percent
while 45 percent of those surveyed backed Abbott, up from 42
percent.  “I don’t believe in the polls, it’s a very, very close
race,” Abbott told reporters in Adelaide today. “This campaign
still has a long, long way to run.”  Both sides’ ability to promise pre-election sweeteners has
been hit by falling government revenue as they each have put
management of the world’s 12th-largest economy at the center of
their campaigns for the Sept. 7 election. The Labor government
is pressuring the coalition to release details of the costs of
its policies, including Abbott’s proposed paid parental leave
system.  The Nielsen poll interviewed 2,545 voters by telephone from
Aug. 18 to 22 and had a margin of error of 1.9 percent. If the
level of support for each party in the poll was maintained until
the election, Labor would lose 10 of its seats in the 150-seat
 House of Representatives  in Australia’s parliament. The
coalition only needs to win four additional seats to form
government and for Abbott to become prime minister.  Griffith Poll  A separate survey of voters in Rudd’s  Brisbane  electorate
of Griffith showed the prime minister is at risk of losing his
own seat, a Newspoll published in the Australian newspaper today
showed. Support for Labor was at 48 percent in Griffith,
compared with 52 percent for the coalition on a two-party
preferred basis, according to the poll of 500 voters conducted
on Aug. 21 and 22, with a margin of error of as much as 4.4
percentage points.  Rudd today suspended his campaign to travel to Canberra to
receive national security briefings on the crisis in  Syria , amid
allegations of chemical attacks in Damascus by forces loyal to
the nation’s president, Bashar al-Asaad.  The  Liberal Party  will tomorrow hold a rally in Brisbane to
officially start its election campaign. The Greens party began
its official campaign today.  Minority Government  Labor, with 71 seats in the lower house of parliament, has
relied on support from independent lawmakers and the Greens
party since forming a minority government after the 2010
election. The coalition, which had 72 lawmakers in the chamber
where government is formed, needs to increase that to 76 at the
election to rule in its own right.  Abbott said this month his coalition wouldn’t form a
minority government with the Greens should the election result
in another hung parliament. Liberal voters would be directed to
preference the Greens last on their ballot paper in a bid to
avoid a hung parliament, he said today, calling them “political
fringe dwellers.”  Greens Party Leader Senator Christine Milne today warned
voters against giving Abbott control of both houses of
parliament.  Absolute Power  “Australian voters do not want any party to have absolute
power in parliament,” Milne said in a  statement  ahead of the
start of the Greens’ campaign. “The last time this happened,
 John Howard  introduced Work Choices,” unpopular  labor laws  that
decreased the power of labor unions.  Rudd dismantled the laws after he trounced Howard, the last
Liberal prime minister, in the worst election defeat in the
Liberal Party’s 63-year history.  Rudd -- who was replaced by  Julia Gillard , the nation’s
first female prime minister, in a Labor leadership coup in June
2010 -- returned to the top job on June 26 after defeating
Gillard in a leadership ballot. He won support in the party vote
as the best person to help Labor avoid a resounding election
defeat. While Rudd initially narrowed the margin in opinion
polls, Abbott has since regained the upper hand in the most
recent surveys.  “Election campaigns are often tough and this one is
particularly tough and we’ve always said we’re the underdog,”
Finance Minister  Penny Wong  said in an e-mailed transcript of a
press conference in  Melbourne  yesterday. “And  Tony Abbott , were
the election to have been held when it was called, would be the
prime minister today, which is why it makes it all the more
important that he levels with the Australian people.”  Campaign Promises  Rudd last weekend pledged A$500 million ($452 million) to
help the nation’s car industry after producers cut jobs and
announced plant closures as low tariffs and a strong Australian
dollar make imported models cheaper. The coalition announced
plans for a parental leave system that would give mothers 26
weeks leave at their full wage. Planned to start from 2015, it
would be funded partially by cutting Labor’s existing program.  The opposition needs A$30 billion of savings in addition to
the $13.5 billion it has announced by fiscal year 2017 to ensure
the budget won’t be worse off than the government’s most recent
forecasts, Saul Eslake, chief  Australia  economist for Bank of
America Corp.’s  Merrill Lynch division, said in a report on
Aug. 22. The coalition has promised revenue measures costing
$28.5 billion over four years to fiscal year 2017, and new
spending totaling $14.75 billion, he said.  Abbott has also pledged to abolish the carbon and mining
taxes introduced by the Labor government under Gillard, and cut
the company tax rate to 28.5 percent on July 1, 2015. Rudd has
promised to move to an emissions-trading scheme from July 1,
2014.  Asylum Policies  Rudd’s attempts to diffuse concerns about a jump in asylum
seekers under Labor failed to reverse the slumping support for
the party. While Rudd toughened Labor’s stance after retaking
office by pledging to send undocumented asylum seekers to camps
in developing nations such as  Papua New Guinea , voters prefer
Abbott’s plan to put a military commander in charge of executing
his “stop the boats” edict, according to a Newspoll earlier
this month.  “Refugees have for too long been our nation’s chief
political football, but in this election the race to the bottom
has hit new lows,” the Greens’ Milne said in her statement.  Rudd today denied a report in the Australian newspaper that
Papua New Guinea has suspended talks with Australia on
resettling refugees and halted work expanding a detention center
on Manus Island. PNG’s Chief Migration Officer Mataio Rabura
complained that local authorities weren’t being consulted by
Australian officials and work tenders were advertised only in
Australia, the newspaper said, citing a confidential letter.  “That correspondence is a week or so old and, based on a
statement overnight by the PNG foreign minister, I think you’d
be aware that all of those matters have been dealt with,” Rudd
told reporters in Sydney today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  