-- Bean Says BOE Jobless Threshold Should Temper Yield Tightening
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-08-24T16:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/bean-says-boe-jobless-threshold-should-temper-yield-tightening.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor
Charlie Bean said a tightening in U.K. gilt yields should be
restrained by its pledge not to consider raising interest rates
before unemployment falls to 7 percent.  “Short-term yields have moved up since our announcement on
a string of good news about the economy, but the unemployment
threshold, by serving as a reminder of just how much growth is
needed to regain lost ground, should temper the extent of any
tightening,” Bean said today at the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Kansas City ’s annual symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  The U.K. central bank this month embraced so-called
forward guidance by projecting it will keep its benchmark rate
at 0.5 percent until late 2016 as it waits for the jobless rate
to fall from 7.8 percent. That hasn’t stopped investors from
pushing up U.K. gilt yields as a strengthening economy raises
questions over whether the central bank will hold out so long.  “The knowledge that monetary policy will not be tightened
until the U.K.’s fledgling recovery is secured should boost
confidence,” Bean said. “Moreover, it should reduce the
likelihood that the present expansionary monetary stance is
withdrawn prematurely through an upward movement in market
interest rates.”  Bean said such forward guidance and good communications
alone won’t be enough to guarantee the exit from easy monetary
policy will be smooth. That’s because even when a central bank’s
intent is well understood, market rates respond to economic data
rather than wait for policy makers to act.  ‘Imperfectly Predictable’  “Although there are benefits to the market more accurately
anticipating a given policy decision, because the data are
likely to evolve in an imperfectly predictable fashion, so will
market  interest rates  and asset prices,” Bean said.  The 10-year gilt yield was little changed to end the week
at 2.71 percent. The price of the 1.75 percent security due in
September 2022 was 92.375. The rate climbed to 2.76 percent on
Aug. 22, the highest since Aug. 8, 2011.  U.K. government bonds lost 4 percent in the past three
months through Aug. 22. They underperformed Treasuries’ 3.4
percent decline and German securities, which slid 2.3 percent,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.  Bean pushed back against suggestions that
policy makers need to be more coordinated globally to reduce
international fallout from their decisions, saying acting in
concert was not a “viable option.”  “The best we can probably aspire to is directing monetary
policies to achieving domestic  price stability  in a sensible
manner and seeking to communicate our policy intentions as
clearly as possible,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Jackson Hole, Wyoming at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  