-- Bo Discredits Wife as State Media Highlight Trial’s Transparency
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-24T09:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/bo-discredits-wife-as-state-media-highlight-trial-s-transparency.html
Ousted Politburo member  Bo Xilai 
suggested his wife may be making up evidence to avoid the death
penalty and denied embezzlement charges at a corruption trial
that state media said was proof no one’s above the law in  China .  After witness Wang Zhenggang claimed he had given 5 million
yuan ($817,000) to Bo through his wife, Gu Kailai, for family
expenses, Bo said there were contradictions in Wang’s testimony
and that if he had done something illegal he would have hidden
it better.  Conversations the prosecution alleged Bo had with Wang and
Gu were “one-on-one” and their word against his, Bo said
today, according to a transcript of proceedings posted on the
Weibo  microblog  account of the court in Jinan, where the trial
is being held. “From the prosecution’s perspective, Wang
Zhenggang and Gu Kailai will not lie, only Bo Xilai will. Wang
Zhenggang and Gu Kailai are not corrupt, only Bo Xilai is. Can
this logic hold?” Bo said, according to the transcript.  Bo mounted a defense that did an effective job of exposing
gaps in the case against him, even though the Communist Party
remains in control and a guilty verdict is almost certain,
according toNicholas Bequelin, a Hong Kong-based researcher for
 Human Rights Watch .  “The decision to give greater rights to the defense team
was a political one -- it was either a product of an agreement
between Bo and the party or it was simply in order to give more
credibility to the trial,” Bequelin said. “But I think that
the effect has been somewhat unexpected for the authorities. Bo
is coming out looking pretty good.”  Along with bribery and embezzlement charges that have been
the focus since the trial started Aug. 22, Bo was charged with
abuse of power for allegedly trying to cover up his wife’s role
in the 2011 murder of British businessman Neil Heywood.  Cash Payments  Bo was removed as Communist Party secretary of Chongqing
and ousted from the Politburo last year after his former police
chief in the city, Wang Lijun, fled to a U.S. consulate with
evidence about his family’s alleged involvement in Heywood’s
death.  Wang was convicted of bending the law for selfish ends and
sentenced to 15 years in prison last year. Gu was convicted of
murdering Heywood and given a suspended death sentence. Her
testimony against Bo has been a central part of prosecutors’
case, and included new claims today that Bo knew about the cash
from Wang Zhenggang, a former urban planning official in Dalian
when Bo was the city mayor.  “I have feelings for Gu Kailai --  she is a relatively
weak woman,” Bo said today, according to the transcript. 
“By telling on someone else she could soon get out of the
death penalty. Who could she accuse? All the accusations 
against me come from Gu Kailai.”  Extra-marital Affairs  Police cordoned off the streets around the courthouse with
metal barricades and yellow plastic tape, emptying out an area
about the size of two football fields in what’s normally a
crowded  city center . The only people on the streets nearby were
police in blue uniforms, while black sedans and white vans
occasionally came and went from the court building.  Bo’s testimony gave details about his life with Gu, and why
she and their son, Bo Guagua, moved abroad. Guagua went to the
elite British boarding school Harrow and later to Oxford
University, and then graduated from Harvard’s John F. Kennedy
School of Government.  “I did have extra-marital affairs -- she was very angry
about that,” Bo said, adding that he had no need to embezzle
money because his wife had made millions of  yuan  as a lawyer.
“So her bringing Guagua abroad was out of anger.”  In a country where the Communist Party maintains strict
control of sensitive political trials, the state-run  Global
Times  newspaper said the decision to release updates on Weibo,
Sina Corp.’s Twitter-like microblogging platform, “served as an
important guarantee of a fair trial for Bo in accordance with
the law.”  Create Precedent  “This degree of transparency has not happened before,”
the editorial said. “This will create a precedent that will
bring lasting impact to the future trials of sensitive cases.”  The the details revealed in the trial demonstrate that “no
one is above the law,” the party’s flagship  People’s Daily 
newspaper said. “In the fight against corruption we are after
both flies and tigers.”  Allowing so much of Bo’s trial to be aired publicly is
risky for the Communist Party because it may garner Bo new
support from people impressed by his vigorous defense, according
to Randy Peerenboom, a law professor at La Trobe University in
 Melbourne ,  Australia . That, in turn, may backfire on Bo because
the party is still in control, he said.  “If it is the case that Bo Xilai has once again wandered
off script, and the leadership is worried that his cool
performance under pressure has won him new admirers, then it is
possible that he will receive a much harsher punishment than
originally planned,” Peerenboom wrote in an e-mail.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  