-- Bo Xilai Calls His Wife Crazy in Vigorous Defense at Trial
-- B y   L i z a   L i n
-- 2013-08-24T05:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/bo-xilai-calls-his-wife-crazy-in-vigorous-defense-at-trial-1-.html
Bo Xilai called his wife “crazy”
and said she spoke under duress as a Chinese court aired
testimony in which she detailed the dispute that led to the
former Politburo member’s ouster and corruption trial.  In written testimony presented by prosecutors yesterday, Gu
Kailai said Bo knew that a family friend, Xu Ming, helped pay
for them to buy a villa in  France . Bo said he had didn’t know
how the house was bought.  “Gu has changed, she’s crazy, she always tells lies,” Bo
said, according to a transcript released by the court in the
eastern city of Jinan. “Under the circumstances, her mental
state wasn’t normal. Her handlers put huge pressure on her.”  The testimony by Gu and other witnesses, as well as Bo’s
combative response and denial of the charges against him,
provided insight in a case that threw the Communist Party into
turmoil last year. In contrast with past political trials, the
Jinan court has posted live updates on its microblog about the
proceedings.  In a country where the party controls such trials, the
decision to sift through so much evidence in court -- and reveal
so much of the detail publicly --  may be a bid to lend
credibility to the inevitable guilty verdict for Bo, according
to Lin Yan an  associate professor  at Shanghai Jiao Tong
University’s KoGuan Law School.  “All evidence, including that of key witnesses, has been
presented and cross-examined,” Lin said. “It seems that the
government has been forced to satisfy Bo’s procedural rights to
build the legitimacy of the trial.”  Chongqing Secretary  Bo was removed as Communist Party secretary of Chongqing
and ousted from the Politburo last year after his former police
chief in the city, Wang Lijun, fled to a U.S. consulate with
evidence about his family’s alleged involvement in the 2011
murder of British businessman Neil Heywood.  In court today, Bo continued sparring with the prosecution,
denying claims from Wang Zhenggang, a witness who said he gave
Bo’s family 5 million  yuan  ($817,000) from a construction
project as a consultancy fee, according to a court transcript.  “If I were the embezzler, as Wang Zhenggang accused me of
taking the 5 million yuan, I would at least have to think hard
and make plans to avoid this incident being known to other
people, wouldn’t I?” Bo said. He also questioned why he would
need the money since his wife made a good living as a lawyer.  Along with bribery and embezzlement charges that have been
the focus since the trial started Aug. 22, Bo was charged with
abuse of power for allegedly trying to cover up his wife’s role
in Heywood’s murder.  Heywood Murder  In testimony given earlier and offered by prosecutors
yesterday, Gu said Heywood was murdered after he threatened
their son Bo Guagua while he was in the U.S., amid a dispute
over the French villa. In 2007, she had transfered her ownership
share in the villa to Heywood because she didn’t want the
property to be linked to her family as Bo gained more
prominence. She later canceled his holding because she felt
Heywood was unreliable, according to a court transcript.  A commentary yesterday in the Guangming Daily, republished
by state media including the People’s Daily and  China Central
Television , said Bo was “playing tricks” with testimony on the
first day of the trial Aug. 22, when he denied ever taking any
bribes and said one witness was “biting like a crazy dog.”  “Bo’s effort to protect himself crashed in the face of
evidence and makes his challenges powerless and laughable,” the
commentary said.  Eight Immortals  As the son of former Vice Premier  Bo Yibo , one of the
“eight immortals” of the Communist Party, Bo belongs to the
princeling class of second-generation officials whose families
are tied together through decades of alliances and patronage.  While he was in Chongqing, Bo gained popularity among
leftists by starting a campaign to revive Mao Zedong era songs
and slogans. His popularity may have given him the freedom to
push back against the court system, according to Nicholas
Howson, a professor at the  University of Michigan Law School ,
who studies Chinese legal institutions.  “Unlike so many other criminal defendants in  China , Bo has
a political background and popular support which allows him to
push back,” Howson said.  Five of Bo’s relatives attended the trial, including a son
from his first marriage, Li Wangzhi.  “I am proud of my father,” Li said in a statement from
his lawyer that first appeared in the  New York  Times. “I hope
that my father will continue to respect the law, and that the
law also is able to respect the facts, and is able to give the
people an explanation, and give history an explanation, and also
give his son an explanation too.” 