-- Canadian Dollar Drops Most in Nine Weeks on Bets Economy Slowing
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-08-24T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/canadian-dollar-drops-most-in-nine-weeks-on-bets-economy-slowing.html
Canada ’s dollar lost the most in
more than two months as wholesale and retail sales fell and
consumer-price gains stayed below the central bank’s inflation
target for a 15th month, fueling concern the economy is slowing.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, touched a six-week low versus
the U.S. dollar before data next week forecast to show Canadian
gross domestic product shrank in June. The loonie fell against
most major peers amid bets the  Federal Reserve  will slow
stimulus. Government-bond yields climbed to a two-year high.  “There’s been poor Canadian data, especially retail sales,
and generally weak risk appetite,” Adam Button, a Montreal-based currency analyst at forexlive.com, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “There’s been a consistent theme of
disappointing economic data in Canada, and that points to risks
for a downside surprise for GDP.”  Canada’s currency depreciated 1.5 percent to C$1.0496 per
U.S. dollar this week in Toronto, the biggest drop since the
five days ended June 21. It touched C$1.0568 yesterday, the
weakest since July 9. One Canadian dollar buys 95.27 U.S. cents.  Benchmark 10-year government  bond yields  climbed to 2.78
percent on Aug. 22, the highest level since July 2011. For the
week, yields slipped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 2.69 percent. The price of the 1.5 percent securities
maturing in June 2023 added 13 cents to C$89.85.  The loonie fell 1.7 percent in the past month against nine
other developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index.  Australia ’s dollar lost 2.7 percent,
and the  New Zealand dollar  dropped 2.2 percent, while the  U.S.
dollar  gained 0.6 percent.  Bets Increased  Futures traders increased for the first time in six weeks
their bets the Canadian dollar will fall against its U.S. peer,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge
funds  and other large speculators on a decline in the loonie
versus those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 9,544 on
Aug. 20, compared with net shorts of 9,081 a week earlier.  Canada’s  economic output  contracted 0.4 percent in June,
helping to pare second-quarter growth to an annualized 1.5
percent, economists in a Bloomberg survey projected before a
government report due Aug. 30. The economy expanded 2.5 percent
in the first quarter.  The loonie fell on Aug. 22 for a fifth straight day as
 Statistics Canada  reported  retail sales  dropped 0.6 percent in
June, with flooding in  Alberta  and a construction strike in
 Quebec  contributing to the slide. Sales rose a revised 1.8
percent in May. The data followed declines in Canadian wholesale
and manufacturing sales in June.  Economy ‘Stumbled’  “This is the third straight significant miss on the June
activity numbers, setting us up for next week’s June GDP and
second-quarter GDP numbers, and obviously the Canadian economy
stumbled pretty significantly at the end of the quarter,”  David Watt , chief economist at the Canadian unit of HSBC Holdings Plc,
said in a telephone interview. The  Bank of Canada  may be
“locked on the sidelines for an extended period of time.”  The central bank has kept its benchmark  interest-rate 
target at 1 percent since September 2010 to support the economy.
Its next policy decision is scheduled for Sept. 4.  A report yesterday showed Canada’s consumer price index
increased 1.3 percent last month from a year earlier, less than
the 1.4 percent gain forecast in a Bloomberg survey. It rose 1.2
percent the previous month. The Bank of Canada’s inflation
target is 2 percent.  ‘Below Potential’  “July’s subdued inflation figures are consistent with an
economy growing below potential, which will only reinforce the
Bank of Canada’s reluctance to raise rates any time soon,”
David Madani, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in Toronto,
wrote in a note to clients.  The loonie slid the most in two months on Aug. 21, 0.8
percent, after minutes of the Fed’s last meeting showed that
most policy makers were “broadly comfortable” with Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to start reducing the American central
bank’s $85 billion in monthly bond purchases this year if the
 U.S. economy  improves.  The Fed’s asset buying has fueled growth in riskier assets
amid concern the stimulus will lead to inflation and debase the
U.S. dollar. Investors are betting that slower bond buying will
cause the greenback to strengthen against its Canadian peer.  “Now that some of the uncertainty around the Fed is
removed, pent-up cash is finding its way into the U.S. dollar,”
forexlive.com’s Button said on Aug. 21. “The commodity bloc in
general is vulnerable, and that will weigh on the Canadian
dollar. At the moment, the story is purely dollar strength.”  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart increased to 7.8 percent
yesterday, the highest level on a closing basis since July 16.
Implied volatility is used to set option prices and gauge the
expected pace of currency swings. The average for this year is
6.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  