-- Demetriades Says Cannot ‘Rule Out’ Another ECB Interest R
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-08-24T21:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/demetriades-says-cannot-rule-out-another-ecb-interest-rate-cut.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council Member Panicos Demetriades said policy makers can’t
“rule out” lowering their key  interest rate  to a new record
low even amid signs the euro-area economy is improving.  “That option is still on the cards,” Demetriades said of
a rate cut in an interview today in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . “We
cannot rule out that possibility although one has to take a look
at the new data. That data is more encouraging.”  Demetriades’ comment contrasts with that made Aug. 22 by
colleague  Ewald Nowotny , who said the recent “stream of good
news” from the economy removed any need to pare the 0.5 percent
benchmark rate. “I would not see many arguments now for a rate
cut,” Nowotny, who heads  Austria ’s central bank, told Bloomberg
Television.  Signs of a split on the 23-member council are emerging as
the ECB prepares fresh forecasts for release next month after
its economy emerged from the longest ever recession. It grew 0.3
percent in the second quarter from the previous three months and
reports this week signaled the return to growth will be
sustained as services expanded in August for the first time in
19 months and construction output rose for a third month in
June.  “It’s been encouraging, but it’s too early to be sure,”
said Demetriades, the governor of the central bank of Cyprus.  With the recovery gaining momentum, ECB officials are
seeking to quell any speculation that they will shift to tighter
policy prematurely. President  Mario Draghi  has pledged to keep
his main rate at a record low or lower for an “extended
period.”  Asked about Cyprus, Demetriades said his recession-hit
nation has shown “considerable improvement” after securing 10
billion-euros of aid in March.  “The situation in Cyprus is stabilizing,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Jackson Hole, Wyoming at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  