-- Egypt’s Brotherhood Leaders Go on Trial for July Violence
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   T a m i m   E l y a n
-- 2013-08-25T11:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/egypt-islamist-rallies-fade-amid-bolstered-security-presence.html
The trial of the supreme guide of
 Egypt ’s Muslim Brotherhood and two of his deputies on charges of
inciting violence started in their absence as the Islamist group
faces its toughest crackdown in over three decades.  In a separate case, former ruler  Hosni Mubarak  appeared in
the court to answer charges relating to his alleged role in the
death of protesters in 2011, when a mass uprising led to his
ouster and opened the door for the Brotherhood’s rise to power
and subsequent fall with the deposing of President Mohamed Mursi.  The start of criminal proceedings against Mohammed Badie,
the Brotherhood’s top leader, along with Khairat el-Shater and
Rashed Bayoumi, comes days after Mubarak was released from
prison under a court order and moved to house arrest. It marked
part of the military-backed government’s attempt to quash the
Islamist organization and stabilize the country after clashes
left nearly 1,000 people dead since Mursi’s July 3 ouster.  Badie and other Brotherhood officials face allegations of
inciting violence that led to the death of protesters outside
the group’s headquarters in Cairo in July. The three leaders
could face the death penalty if convicted.  An umbrella group of Islamists, including the Brotherhood,
took note of what it saw as the irony of Mubarak’s release and
the trial of the group’s leaders.  While authorities were targeting “honored and free men,
and arresting them and charging them with false claims,”
Mubarak, “who spoiled the lives of Egyptians for the past three
decades, is released,” the National Coalition for Legitimacy
said in an e-mailed statement.  Case Adjourned  Cairo criminal court Judge Mohamed el-Armouti adjourned the
hearing until Oct. 29 and said the defendants, who were unable
to attend due to security concerns, would be present at the next
sitting. The proceedings were broadcast on al-Hayat.  Officials have termed the Brotherhood’s members as
terrorists and broke up its sit-in camps on Aug. 14 in Cairo,
triggering a week of clashes that claimed the lives of around
900 people and dozens of casualties in the security force.  Mubarak’s appearance in court was the first since he was
freed from prison on Aug. 22 and moved to a military hospital.
The Brotherhood claims that the interim government is intent on
reviving the old regime. The deposed leader, who appeared fit
after reports of his ailing health, wore a white jumpsuit and
sun glasses while seated in a wheel chair in the defendants’
cage.  Verdict Overturned  With him in court were his sons Alaa and Gamal, as well as
his longtime security chief Habib el-Adli and six other security
officials. Mubarak was found guilty of failing to halt the
killing of protesters during the 2011 uprising and was sentenced
to life only to have the verdict overturned on appeal.  The trial was adjourned until Sept. 14 after the court
ordered that committees be set up to investigate corruption
related charges, the export of Egyptian natural gas to  Israel 
and the kinds of weapons used during the uprising.  Interim Prime Minister Hazem El Beblawi told reporters
yesterday the decision to place Mubarak under house arrest was
taken for his own safety, and stressed the move to free him was
taken by the courts and was not an attempt by the government to
reinstate the old regime, state-run Al-Ahram reported.  The government has vowed to press ahead with its roadmap to
transition Egypt after the ouster of Mursi, who has been held at
an undisclosed location since Defense Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi’s July 3 announcement that he had been deposed.  Constitution Amended  As part of that process, a 10-member expert panel was to
submit to interim President Adly Mansour a draft of the amended
constitution. The changes to the charter, which was suspended
when Mursi was ousted, remove several alterations introduced
under his leadership and which created an uproar among his
opponents, who said the process had been dominated by Islamists.  The draft, carried by the state-run Middle East News
Agency, disbands Shura Council, parliament’s upper house, and
raises the number of members of parliamet’s lower house to 450.
It said parliamentary elections would be based on the fielding
of individuals instead of party lists, according to the draft
obtained by MENA. The shift was a marked departure for the
system in place under the last parliamentary vote in which
parties were allocated two-thirds of the seats, with the
remainder earmarked for individuals.  The Supreme Constitutional Court had issued rulings leading
to the disbanding of parliament’s lower house, in which the
Brotherhood and other Islamists had a majority. Added to the
charter was an article saying that the president could be
accused of crimes with the approval of two-thirds of the
parliament and after an investigation by the prosecutor-general.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net 
Tamim Elyan at   telyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  