-- Merkel Says G20 Needs to Push Harder to Control Hedge Fund Risks
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-08-24T13:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/merkel-says-g20-needs-to-push-harder-to-control-hedge-fund-risks.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told
voters at an election rally that she’ll push for greater
regulation of  hedge funds  at next month’s Group of Twenty
meeting.  Addressing a crowd of about 2,000 in the Rhine city of
Bonn, Merkel said she hoped European members of the G20 would
“speak with one voice” at a meeting in  St. Petersburg , amid
slow progress on tightening controls on hedge funds. “It’s not
enough to regulate just banks but not hedge funds and shadow
banks and I’ll fight for that,” she said.  Merkel, campaigning in some 57 towns and cities in the
final weeks before the Sept. 22 election, said her government
kept its promise to make  Germany  emerge stronger from the
financial crisis. Gaps remain in regulation that may leave
taxpayers liable for banking failures while those responsible
“disappear over the next hill.”  Merkel will make her only scheduled trip abroad before the
election when she meets G20 leaders on Sept. 5 and 6. That
includes U.S. President  Barack Obama , whose administration this
year urged the euro region to boost economic growth.  The chancellor will also meet Japanese Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe. Senior members of Merkel’s Christian Democrats
including chief parliamentary whip  Volker Kauder  have criticized
Abe’s policy of targeting a 2 percent inflation rate.
Manipulation of the yen’s value against other currencies may
distort foreign-exchange markets and hurt the exports of  Japan ’s
competitors, they said.  Economic Lift  Reports this month that showed Germany’s economy grew 0.7
percent in the second quarter and that the January-June budget
was in surplus are helping Merkel’s campaign. Her Christian
Democrats and allies the Free Democrats gained a point to 47
percent in an Aug. 21 Forsa GmbH poll. That compares with 35
percent support for a Social Democrat-Green Party opposition
coalition.  Peer Steinbrueck , SPD’s candidate for chancellor, has so
far failed to put a dent in Merkel’s popularity with a platform
of wealth distribution and social justice.  Only 28 percent of respondents to a FG Wahlen poll for ZDF
television that was published yesterday said Germany would be
more “socially just” under an SPD-Greens government. Just 18
percent said they expected the SPD to rise in the polls.  The SPD tried to open a new front against Merkel this week
over the cost of the debt crisis, accusing her of attempting to
conceal the need for a third Greek aid program until after the
election.  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , speaking in an
interview published by Handelsblatt newspaper yesterday, said
that any Greek aid would be far lower than in the past and he
repeated that help would not involve taking a second haircut on
Greek debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  