-- Mexico Rate in Line for Now With Inflation Target, Carstens Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H a y s   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-08-24T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/mexico-key-rate-in-line-now-with-inflation-goal-carstens-says.html
Mexico ’s key  interest rate , cut to a
record low in March, is in line with the central bank’s goal of
lowering annual inflation to 3 percent as the peso weakens amid
slower growth, central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said.  “We can evaluate this later on in our next meeting, but as
of today I think that the monetary policy stance we have is
adequate for achieving that convergence,” Carstens, 55, said in
an interview yesterday at the Federal Reserve Bank of  Kansas
City ’s annual policy symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . The
interview, taped for The Hays Advantage on  Bloomberg Radio , is
scheduled to air Aug. 26.  Strong fundamentals in  Latin America ’s second-largest
economy mean the peso should be “relatively well behaved,”
Carstens said. The currency has tumbled 7.9 percent from an
almost two-year high in May on speculation the U.S. Federal
Reserve, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , will dial back record
stimulus. Peso volatility isn’t a major inflation concern, he
said.  Most economists expect the central bank to refrain from
reducing interest rates again this year as the peso weakens,
even after inflation and growth slowed, according to an Aug. 20
survey by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit. The  Finance Ministry 
cut its 2013 growth forecast to 1.8 percent from 3.1 percent
this week.  Carstens’s comments “strengthen my position that the
central bank will stay on hold,” Carlos Capistran, chief Mexico
economist at Bank of America Corp., said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City. “He understands very well that
within the horizon in which monetary policy affects the economy,
which is between six months and a year, things could be much
better than they seem now on growth.”  Swap Rates  Capistran said Bank of America expects policy makers to
leave rates on hold this year and next before raising them in
2015.  The chances of the central bank cutting rates in the next
six months increased to 24 percent yesterday from 12 percent a
week ago, based on swap-rates used to speculate on borrowing
costs. The increase came after a report showed Mexico’s economy
grew  1.5 percent  in the second quarter from a year earlier, less
than the 2.3 percent forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Mexico’s  annual inflation rate  tumbled from 4.65 percent in
April to 3.54 percent in mid-August, within the central bank’s 2
percent to 4 percent target range, on a decline in agricultural
prices.  Core inflation , which excludes energy and farm costs,
dropped to an annual rate of 2.38 percent.  Feeling Comfortable  “We feel comfortable with the dynamic process of inflation
in Mexico and how inflation responds to the monetary policy
signals that the central bank emits,” Carstens said.  Non-core prices, which include energy and farm costs,
aren’t a major obstacle to inflation converging on the central
bank’s target, Carstens said.  “These are very volatile prices, and that doesn’t mean a
major deviation from what we were expecting,” Carstens said.
“I don’t see this as a major issue.”  Policy makers surprised analysts in March by cutting the
benchmark  interest rate  to 4 percent amid signs the economy was
slowing. They have kept borrowing costs unchanged at the past
three rate decisions.  Mexico’s central bank cut its growth forecast in its
quarterly inflation  report  on Aug. 7, projecting the slowest
expansion in four years amid stagnant exports to the U.S. and a
first-half drop in  government spending . GDP will expand 2
percent to 3 percent, as little as half of last year’s pace and
down from the 3 percent to 4 percent previously forecast, the
bank said.  Potential Growth  Carstens said Mexico’s potential annual growth could
accelerate to more than 5 percent within two or three years if
the nation implements key economic reforms President Enrique Pena Nieto pledges to pass this year. Those include an end to
Petroleos Mexicanos’s 75-year oil monopoly and a tax overhaul to
wean the government off crude revenue.  “Mexico right now characterizes itself as being one of the
countries that is pushing the most pro-growth reform agendas
pretty much in the world,” Carstens said.  Exports to the U.S. should pick up in the second half of
the year as the world’s biggest economy rebounds, Carstens said.  Participating in a discussion at the same symposium
yesterday, Carstens called for monetary-policy coordination
among advanced economies, saying that the withdrawal of stimulus
by advanced economies is the “most pressing challenge” for
emerging economies.  Policy Coordination  “For advanced economies it would be desirable to have a
monetary policy coordination,” Carstens said. “To have the
central banks of advanced economies go in different directions,
can become a source of instability.”  Referring to plans for a reduction in the pace of central
bank bond purchases, the central bank governor called for “a
much better, clearer implementation of the tapering effort.”  Carstens, a former finance minister and International
Monetary Fund deputy managing director who sought the
organization’s top job in 2011 and lost out to  France ’s
 Christine Lagarde , has led Mexico’s central bank since January
2010. Under his leadership the bank has cut interest rates just
once, by 0.5 percentage point on March 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kathleen Hays  in  New York  at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  