-- Ginsburg Says Court Struck Right Balance on Gay Marriage
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-08-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/ginsburg-says-court-struck-right-balance-on-gay-marriage.html
Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg , the
U.S. Supreme Court’s foremost champion of civil rights, said the
court struck the right balance with two rulings that backed gay
marriage without legalizing it across the country.  Gay-rights supporters had urged the court to declare a
constitutional right for same-sex marriage nationwide. Ginsburg,
who has said the court was too bold in the landmark 1973 Roe v.
Wade abortion-rights ruling, said in an interview that the court
was right to take a more limited approach in the gay marriage
decisions.  “The court handled both of those cases just the way they
should have,” said Ginsburg, who was a leading advocate for
 women’s rights  before she became a judge.  The high court in June ruled on procedural grounds in a
California case, letting gay weddings resume there without
affecting other states. In the second case, the court struck
down a federal law that denied benefits to legally married same-sex couples.  Commenting on several topics in the interview, Ginsburg
blamed the court’s 2010  Citizens United  ruling, which allowed
unlimited corporate campaign spending, for unleashing a torrent
of money in the 2012 federal elections.  “You take the limits off and say, ‘You can spend as much
as you want,’ and people will spend and spend,” she said in the
interview in her chambers in  Washington . “People are appalled
abroad. It’s a question I get asked all the time: Why should
elections be determined by how much a candidate can spend and
why should candidates spend most of their time these days
raising the funds so that they will prevail in the next
election?”  Election Spending  Super-political action committees, political committees,
tax-exempt organizations and other non-party entities reported
$1.04 billion in spending on independent expenditures and
electioneering communications advocating federal candidates in
the 2012 election cycle. That’s three times the $338 million
reported by groups in the 2008 elections and five times the
amount reported in 2004.  Ginsburg, 80, is the court’s oldest justice. President  Bill Clinton  appointed her in 1993, making her at the time the second
woman ever named to the nation’s highest court. She has survived
both colon and pancreatic cancer and has broken ribs twice since
June 2012.  She said she wants to stay on the court “as long as I can
do this job full-steam.” Ginsburg said she won’t rush into
retirement simply to ensure that President  Barack Obama  can
appoint her successor before his term ends in January 2017.  “I’m hopeful about the next president,” Ginsburg said,
declining to say whether she had a candidate in mind.  Obama’s Photo  Ginsburg has made no secret of her admiration for Obama. A
photo of her embracing him at a  State of the Union  address
adorns her office, along with a collection of abstract
paintings. She said the president took a “brave” step by
pushing for his health-care law, which was enacted in 2010 and
upheld by the court last year.  Ginsburg was the lone dissenter this year in the court’s
affirmative action ruling, a compromise decision that told a
lower court to give tougher scrutiny to a  University of Texas 
policy of considering race as an admissions factor. The court
left intact a 2003 decision that said schools seeking to ensure
campus diversity could consider race as part of a broad review
of an applicant’s file.  She questioned whether the ruling would have a major
impact, saying opponents may have trouble recruiting plaintiffs.
She also said universities can still put in place the type of
affirmative action plan endorsed by Justice Lewis Powell in
1978, when he wrote the pivotal opinion in the Regents of the
 University of California  v. Bakke decision.  “There may not be many challenges ahead to the university
plans,” Ginsburg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  