-- Iraq Expands Airport to Shake off War-Torn Era With Bigger Fleet
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y   a n d   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f
-- 2013-08-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/iraq-expands-airport-to-shake-off-war-torn-era-with-bigger-fleet.html
Iraq plans to construct a new
central airport and is continuing a fleet expansion with the
possible addition of  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s CSeries as the war-torn
country seeks to revive its travel industry and lure tourists.  The government will unveil a list of contractors next week
it will ask to bid for construction of the airport in Karbala
south of Baghdad, Nasser Hussein, director general of Iraq’s
civil aviation authority, said in an interview in Baghdad. At a
cost of $2.5 billion, the new hub would be the country’s
biggest, with capacity of 20 million passengers a year, he said.  Iraq, home to the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves, is
revamping its civil aviation infrastructure after decades of
armed conflict, sanctions and neglect left airports and the
national fleet in decay.  Iraqi Airways  has already ordered eight
planes from Airbus SAS, as well as 39 Boeing Inc. airliners that
include the cutting-edge 787 Dreamliner.  “This airport will be the biggest in Iraq with a capacity
set to reach 20 million passengers a year,” and the national
fleet will more than triple to 65 planes by 2016, Hussein said.  Iraqi Airways said last year it planned to halt an order to
buy regional jets from Bombardier in favor of larger planes. The
carrier is now talks with the Canadian manufacturer for a $200
million order of five CSeries-100 planes due for delivery by
2016 once a contract is signed, Hussein said.  Struggling Aircraft  Bombardier’s CSeries has struggled to pick up momentum with
buyers in a market for single-aisle airliners dominated by
Airbus and Boeing. The Montreal-based company said this month
it’s still not certain on the date for the maiden takeoff of its
largest-ever plane, after three delays since November.  Hussein declined to disclose the names of companies that
are in the final running for the new airport, saying only they
are of U.S., German, Turkish, Italian and United Arab Emirates
origin. Iraq now has six civilian airports in  Baghdad , Basra,
Najaf, Mosul and in the Kurdish semi-autonomous regions of
Sleimaniya and Erbil.  The four major airports under the central government’s
control have total capacity of seven million passengers, with
2.5 million flying through Baghdad, 2.5 million in Basra, one
million in Najaf and one million in Mosul, Hussein said. One of
the terminals at Baghdad airport is in use, with three others
undergoing rehabilitation, Hussein said. The hub would be able
to accommodate 9 million travelers by the end of 2013, he said.  New Routes  Apart from Karbala, a $600 million new airport is under
construction in the Kurdish region of Duhok, with capacity of
one million passengers due to be completed in 2014, he said.
Flight movements across Iraq have increased to 17,000 a month
from 15,000 flights two years ago, Hussein said.  Iran  tops the
list of flights to Iraq with 100 a week, followed by the U.A.E.
and Turkey with 62 flights each, and Jordan with 36 flights.  Most visitors travel to Iraq for religious occasions,
mainly to Shiite Muslim sites in Karbala and Najaf. Pilgrims
mostly come from Iran,  Pakistan ,  India , Bahrain, Qatar,  Saudi
Arabia  and European countries. To revive flight routes, the
country has signed several bilateral aviation agreements, with
an accord with the U.S. slated for next week, followed by
 Russia ,  China ,  France  and  Malaysia , Hussein said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net ;
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  