-- Nasdaq Shutdown Forces SEC’s White Into Fight With Market Perils
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-08-24T01:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/nasdaq-shutdown-forces-sec-s-white-into-fight-with-market-perils.html
A three-hour shutdown of the  Nasdaq 
Stock Market marks the first test of Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Mary Jo White’s ability to push through
stronger technology safeguards for electronic trading.  White, a former prosecutor who lacks a background in market
regulation, responded to the failure by vowing to finish a rule
proposed in March to require exchanges to test the reliability
of their technology. Exchanges want to limit the number of
systems covered by the rule and how much information they have
to report about glitches.  The SEC has grappled with how to improve market stability
since the May 2010 flash crash, when $862 billion in equity
value was erased in 20 minutes before share prices recovered.  “White needs to be convinced these guys, all of them, take
this with the utmost seriousness,” said Andrew M. Klein, a
former director of trading and markets at the SEC and now a
partner at Schiff Hardin LLP. “Nasdaq is starting to look like
you can’t be stopped from having these problems, and it needs to
stop.”  White signaled in her Senate confirmation hearing in March
that she would scrutinize the “high-speed, high-tech and
dispersed marketplace, so that it can be wisely and optimally
regulated.”  The regulator has invoked new rules, improved its data-mining abilities, and fined exchanges such as Nasdaq for faulty
systems in connection with the botched initial public offering
of  Facebook Inc. (FB)  in May 2012. The SEC said it accelerated
drafting the rule White cited after automated trading errors by
Knight Capital Group Inc. cost the firm more than $450 million
and led to its sale to Getco LLC.  ‘Connectivity Issue’  Nasdaq said its failure this week stemmed from “a
connectivity issue between an exchange participant” and the
network, called a securities information processor, that
provides data about quotes and prices.  Such systems, or SIPs, are owned by the two major exchange
operators --  The Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   The SEC’s rule proposal, known as Regulation SCI, would
require exchanges, SIPs and clearing firms to adopt policies to
prevent failures, stress test their systems to ensure trading
continues through a disruption, such as a software glitch or
natural disaster, and report the disruptions to the SEC. The
rule also would cover exchange competitors known as alternative
trading systems, including dark pools. The SEC has said 10 dark
pools are large enough to be subject to the regulation, based on
data from 2012.  ‘No Competition’  The SEC warned in its March proposal that SIPs could be
vulnerable to glitches because “there is virtually no
competition” among market-data feeds provided to the public,
which “could lead to little incentive in ensuring a high-quality product with minimal disruptions,” the SEC wrote.  “If you are thinking about investing in your budget for
technology, you are going to invest in things that bring in
revenue, not necessarily things that are infrastructure or
shared services across the industry,” David Easthope, a San
Francisco-based research director for the securities and
investment group at consulting firm Celent, said in a phone
interview. “It’s not necessarily Nasdaq’s chief concern as a
publicly traded company.”  Software failures have mounted as  stock trading  becomes
more dispersed across 13 U.S. equity exchanges and multiple
alternative trading venues. The demand for faster dissemination
of market data has forced exchanges to accelerate the movement
of the information through high-speed proprietary data feeds and
the SIPs, said  Larry Tabb , chief executive officer of
Westborough, Massachusetts-based financial-market consultant
Tabb Group LLC.  Faster Systems  “The way you wind up getting software to speed up is you
take out all the protection,” Tabb said in a phone interview.
“In the attempt to go faster, they continuously remove every
bit of non-critical software.”  Exchanges are resisting Regulation SCI because they worry
it will be used to fine them for software glitches that are
impossible to eliminate, Tabb said. The rule would replace a
voluntary program created after the stock market crash of 1987
and would expand the SEC’s oversight to more systems, including
those that support regulatory compliance and surveillance.  “Reg SCI basically gives the SEC the ability to ding any
exchange for any problem,” said James J. Angel, a finance
professor at  Georgetown University ’s McDonough School of
Business in  Washington .  White’s Response  White said on Aug. 22 that she would work to advance the
proposal, which passed the SEC unanimously on March 7. She also
said she would convene a meeting of exchange executives and
other market participants to “accelerate ongoing efforts to
further strengthen our markets.”  SEC Commissioner Michael Piwowar, who joined the agency
this month, yesterday advised caution on advancing the
regulation. He said that while recent market disruptions,
including errant options trades involving  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , demand attention, the commission should should ensure that
any new rule fits the facts learned from recent failures.  “Regulation SCI may or may not have contemplated what
ultimately caused these disruptions,” Piwowar, a Republican
economist, said in a phone interview. “Therefore, we should re-evaluate the assumptions underlying the Regulation SCI proposal
before moving forward with further rulemaking.”  Exchanges said last month the SEC “significantly
underestimated” the cost of compliance with the proposal. The
agency calculated initial costs could be as much as $242 million
for organizations subject to the regulation, with another $191
million in annual costs.  Limiting Reports  The exchanges also want the SEC to limit the rule to
systems that support trading, clearance, settlement, order
routing and market data in real time. They also say the
commission should adopt a “materiality threshold” to limit the
number of compliance failures or system intrusions that must be
reported to the regulator.  Some of the rule’s critics have questioned whether the
SEC’s oversight authority allows it to impose technology
standards on self-regulatory bodies, which enjoy a special
status under federal law.  “Striking to me has been the kind of collective resistance
by the self-regulatory organizations to much of what is in the
release,” Klein said. “The problem is finding a device to
prevent this and recognize the the truth of what the industry-based message is, that you can’t have this kind of technology-based elaborate system and expect no failures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  