-- Nasdaq CEO Greifeld Wrings Stock Gain as Traders Shudder
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i   a n d   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-08-24T04:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/nasdaq-ceo-greifeld-wrings-stock-gain-as-traders-shudder.html
Nasdaq (NDAQ)  OMX Group Inc. Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld ’s week included the worst
computer-related shutdown of American markets in 30 years and a
gain in shares of his own company.  Nasdaq  stock climbed 0.1 percent over the five days,
including 1.2 percent yesterday that reduced the 3.4 percent
loss suffered when Greifeld froze trading in thousands of
securities for three hours, a decline he said was a buying
opportunity. A day before the malfunction, Raymond James
Financial Inc. analyst Patrick O’Shaughnessy raised Nasdaq to a
“strong buy.”  Whatever damage the malfunction wrought on investor
sentiment around the country, it has so far done little to shake
confidence among people the 56-year-old Greifeld answers to:
Nasdaq  shareholders . That concerns equity traders, who say the
profit motive of publicly traded exchanges, which used to be
owned by their members, is one reason they break down.  “As a public company, Nasdaq has the primary
responsibility to maximize shareholder wealth,” Joseph Saluzzi,
partner and co-head of equity trading at Themis Trading LLC in
Chatham,  New Jersey , said in an e-mail. “We believe that for-profit exchanges have an inherent conflict of interest, which is
why we believe exchanges should not be for profit.”  Shares Surge  Since Greifeld became CEO on May 12, 2003, Nasdaq stock has
risen almost 400 percent, compared with about 75 percent for the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and 170 percent for the Nasdaq 100
Index. Its market value has increased to $5.2 billion, a more
than 10-fold increase during that time. Profits have soared,
reaching $432 million last year versus $10.8 million in 2003.  Robert Madden, a Nasdaq spokesman, declined to comment for
this story.  The company stumbled in the second quarter, as costs from
acquisitions pushed earnings below analyst  estimates . Shares
declined 3 percent on July 24, the day of the announcement.
Shrinking equity trading will limit earnings growth to 2 percent
in 2013, down from an annual rate of 78 percent from 2004 to
2008, analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  “He’s a tough competitor, and he’s done a good job for
that company,” said  Thomas Caldwell , the chairman of Toronto-based Caldwell Securities Ltd., who owns Nasdaq shares. “The
warnings about the potential for a near-term repetition of
something like this remind me of a teacher wagging their finger
at a child.”  ‘Information Asymmetry’  Nasdaq called the halt to protect the integrity of markets
as the malfunction left some investors without prices, Greifeld
said yesterday. Trading was shut off to prevent “information
asymmetry” after connectivity issues with a member exchange
degraded quote processing, Greifeld, a New York University
graduate who made $8.9 million in salary and bonuses last year,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu . He
said he’s in favor of developing a backup data feed to prevent
the mistake from happening again.  In the same interview, Greifeld, who came to Nasdaq from
SunGard Data Systems Inc., noted his company’s success with its
own stock.  Nasdaq shares  are rising for the fourth straight year
and are on track for the biggest advance since 2007.  “When you look at the performance of Nasdaq the stock and
Nasdaq the business, we’ve done quite well,” Greifeld said.
“Our performance in the marketplace has really been superb.
We’ve executed our business plan, in many ways we’re better
positioned than we’ve ever been.”  ‘Poor Systems’  Nasdaq has climbed 40 percent since mishandling the public
debut of  Facebook (FB)  Inc. on May 18, 2012, compared with a 6
percent advance in Facebook and a 28 percent gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Nasdaq agreed to pay $10 million to
settle SEC charges related to the intial public offering as
regulators cited “poor systems and decision-making.”  Nasdaq was owned by the National Association of Securities
Dealers until 2000, when some shares were sold in a private
placement offering. Traders who make markets on the exchange by
buying and selling were among the biggest losers following the
Facebook sale, with industry losses exceeding $500 million.  “Market participants suffered hundreds of millions of
dollars of losses as a result of Nasdaq’s profit-driven conduct
prior to and during the  Facebook IPO ,” Citigroup Inc. said in
an August 2012 filing that opposed Nasdaq’s plan to pay $62
million to member firms who lost money on May 18.  The proposed plan was “inadequate to address the magnitude
of Nasdaq’s unprecedented failures,” UBS AG told the Securities
and Exchange Commission in a letter that month.  Exchange Regulation  Nasdaq was shielded from having to make complete
restitution because of rules dating to when exchanges were owned
by the securities industry instead of the public.  In a letter to the SEC this month, the Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association, an oversight and trade group
for brokers, said the self-regulatory model of organizations
such as the  New York  Stock Exchange and Nasdaq is outdated.  The SRO status means “one group of businesses is empowered
to oversee and regulate the business and activities of its
competitors,” Theodore R. Lazo, associate general counsel at
Sifma, wrote in the letter to the SEC. “Conflicts of interest
in this model abound and only worsen as they are left
unresolved.”  While Nasdaq’s closing kept brokers from executing client
trades and raised fresh concerns about exchange fragility,
investors praised the decision to stop activity before chaos
snowballed.  Switch Pulled  “It’s a good thing to halt the data before the trades go
crazy because it could have easily turned into a flash crash,”
said James Angel, a finance professor at  Georgetown University 
in  Washington . “It certainly doesn’t make them look good when
their market went down but they pulled the switch before the
market went crazy.”  The disruption is the latest to signal unreliability in
electronic markets just as individual investors who withdrew
from  stocks  after the global economic crisis show signs of
embracing equities. About $30 billion poured into exchange-traded funds that own U.S. shares in July, the most since 2008
and the second-highest ever, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg since 2000.  “The problem with our electronic markets is that they have
been built based on a philosophy of zero failure, an impossible
goal,” Michael Schmanske, founder and chief executive officer
of New York-based Glenshaw Capital Management LLC, said in an
interview. “Rather than additional regulation or disallowing
certain types of activity, consider borrowing the best aspect of
the human-based market: its ability to self-regulate or heal
rather than catastrophically fail.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  