-- Pound Drops Most in Two Months Against Euro Before Carney Speech
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-08-24T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/pound-drops-most-in-two-months-against-euro-before-carney-speech.html
The pound posted its biggest weekly
slide versus the euro since May as investors bet Bank of  England 
Governor  Mark Carney  will use a speech next week to affirm his
intention to hold borrowing costs at an all-time low.  Sterling snapped a two-week rally against the 17-nation
currency after a euro-area report yesterday showed  consumer
confidence  increased more in August than analysts estimated. The
pound also dropped for the first time in three weeks against the
dollar. U.K. government bonds were little changed this week
after yields climbed a two-year high. Carney is scheduled to
speak in  Nottingham , England, on Wednesday.  “It’s been a tough week for the pound,” said  Daragh Maher , a foreign-exchange strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in
 London . “There’s a little bit of nervousness ahead of Mark
Carney next week that he may sound still quite dovish.”  The pound depreciated 0.8 percent this week to 85.97 pence
per euro at 5 p.m. London time yesterday, the steepest decline
since the period ended May 24. Sterling fell 0.4 percent to
$1.5575 after gaining 2.2 percent in the previous two weeks.  The pound gained 6 percent in the past six months, the best
performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, amid signs the economy is gaining
momentum. The euro appreciated 4.6 percent and the dollar rose
2.9 percent.  Short-sterling futures declined, indicating investors are
raising bets on higher  interest rates , after data yesterday
showed U.K.  gross domestic product  accelerated in the three
months through June. GDP increased 0.7 percent from the first
quarter, when it rose 0.3 percent.  Rates Outlook  The implied yield on the short-sterling contract expiring
in September 2016 increased three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, this week to 2.23 percent.  Carney has sought to underpin the recovery by introducing
forward guidance to quell investor speculation on higher
borrowing costs. Policy makers left their main  interest rate  at
0.5 percent and maintained the  asset-purchase target  at 375
billion pounds at a meeting ended Aug. 1.  A GfK NOP Ltd. report scheduled for Friday will show
 consumer confidence  improved for a fourth month in August,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of 19 economists.  Carney “will of course defend forward guidance and try to
anchor market expectations, so the anticipated course would be a
downside move in sterling,” said  Geoffrey Yu , senior foreign-exchange strategist at UBS AG in London. “If anything, the
communication will be much stronger.”  The 10-year  gilt yield  was little changed, ending the week
at 2.71 percent. The price of the 1.75 percent security due in
September 2022 was 92.375. The rate climbed to 2.76 percent on
Aug. 22, the highest since Aug. 8, 2011.  U.K. government bonds lost 4 percent in the past three
months through Aug. 22. They underperformed Treasuries’ 3.4
percent decline and German securities, which slid 2.3 percent,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  