-- Promoted Hull Joins Arsenal With First Premier League Win
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-24T18:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/promoted-hull-joins-arsenal-in-getting-first-premier-league-win.html
Promoted Hull City, playing with 10
men, beat Norwich 1-0 to join Arsenal in picking up the first
win of the season in English soccer’s Premier League.  Robbie Brady scored with a penalty kick for Hull, which had
Yannick Sagbo red-carded in the 27th minute. Arsenal defeated
Fulham 3-1 to rebound from an opening home loss to Aston Villa.  “After the disappointment against Villa, it was vital to
get the win today and we did it,” Arsenal midfielder Aaron Ramsey said in an interview with BT Sport. “We played very well
today.”  Liverpool is off to its best start in five years after
beating Aston Villa 1-0, Stoke won for the first time by coming
from behind to beat Crystal Palace 2-1, and Southampton rallied
to draw 1-1 with Sunderland. Newcastle and West Ham finished
goalless, as did Everton and West Bromwich.  Hull, which returned to the Premier League this season
after a three-year absence, took the lead in the 22nd minute on
Brady’s penalty after Sagbo was taken down in the area. Sagbo
was sent off by referee Mike Jones five minutes later after a
skirmish off a Norwich corner.  Norwich pushed forward with the man advantage, but could
only put four of 11 shots on target. The Canaries were twice
denied in the second half as Allan McGregor made a one-handed
save of Ricky Van Wolfswinkel’s header and Tom Huddlestone
cleared away Robert Snodgrass’s header.  Giroud Scores  Arsenal took the lead in the 14th minute when Ramsey’s
partially-blocked shot fell into the path of Olivier Giroud, who
sent a ball past goalkeeper David Stockdale.  Lukas Podolski scored from the edge of the penalty area
just before halftime, and made it 3-0 in the 68th minute off a
pass from Santi Cazorla. Fulham’s Darren Bent then closed the
scoring in the 77th minute.  Daniel Sturridge scored midway through the first half to
give Liverpool the win at Aston Villa. The Reds have won their
opening two matches for the first time since the 2008-09 season
and are tied with Chelsea at the top of the standings with six
points.  Charlie Adam and Ryan Shawcross scored four minutes apart
in the second half to give Stoke the home win over promoted
Crystal Palace, which got a 31st-minute goal from Marouane
Chamakh.  Jose Fonte’s goal in the 88th minute earned Southampton the
home draw with Sunderland, which took the lead in the third
minute on Emanuele Giaccharini’s score.  Newcastle settled for the home draw with West Ham after
being denied in stoppage time when Sammy Ameobi’s shot hit the
post and Yoan Gouffran missed off the rebound from close range.  Everton outshot West Brom 14-8 but could only draw after
Marouane Fellaini and Seamus Coleman both hit the crossbar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 