-- Rey at Jackson Hole Espouses Tools to Help Smooth Capital Flows
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-08-24T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/rey-at-jackson-hole-espouses-tools-to-help-smooth-capital-flows.html
Central banks in  emerging markets 
and smaller developed nations should use tools such as stress
tests and leverage ratios to smooth disruptions caused by
capital flows rather than blame larger countries, according to
Helene Rey, a professor of economics at  London Business School .  “There is a potent global financial cycle in gross capital
flows, credit creation and asset prices, which has tight
connections with fluctuations in uncertainty and risk
aversion,” Rey said in a paper presented today at the Federal
Reserve Bank of Kansas City’s annual symposium in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming . “Independent monetary policies are possible if and
only if the capital account is managed, directly or indirectly
via macroprudential policies.”  Rey said “non-central countries” should use such measures
to establish their independence. The most appropriate ways to
address the dilemma of managing capital flows are “probably to
take actions directly aimed at the main source of concerns”
such as excessive leverage and credit growth, she wrote in the
paper.  The $3.9 trillion of cash that flowed into emerging markets
over the past four years has started to reverse since Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in June talked about
potentially tapering his third round of so-called quantitative
easing this year.  It’s not practical for countries around the world to
coordinate their policies on “monetary spillovers” because
such cooperation may conflict with domestic central-bank
mandates, such as inflation targets, said Rey, who this year
became the first woman to win the Yrjo Jahnsson Prize, given to
European economists under the age of 45 whose research is
significant to Europe.  Stimulus Fallout  Emerging markets from Brazil to Indonesia have raised
borrowing costs in 2013 to try to aid their currencies as the
prospect of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus curbs demand for
assets in developing nations.  The Fed’s second round of so-called quantitative  easing ,
announced in November 2010, sparked complaints from officials in
 Germany , China and Brazil that the U.S. was starting a
competitive devaluation of the dollar, hurting their economies.
Bernanke responded by saying the Fed must focus on domestic
growth.  “The management of aggregate demand in systemically
important economies has important consequences for economic
activity in the rest of the world,” Rey wrote. “This is a
major consideration. The rest of the world cannot at the same
time complain of excessive capital  inflows  due to loose monetary
policy in the center countries and wish for a higher level of
economic activity and demand stimulus in the same countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  