-- U.S. Forces Ready to Act on Syria Amid Chemical Raid Allegations
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-08-24T19:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/u-s-forces-ready-to-act-on-syria-amid-chemical-raid-allegations.html
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel
indicated that U.S. military forces are positioned in the
Mediterranean and ready to act if President  Barack Obama  orders
a strike on  Syria  amid allegations that the Syrian government
used chemical weapons in an attack this week.  “The Defense Department has a responsibility to provide
the president with options for all contingencies,” Hagel told
reporters yesterday while en route to  Kuala Lumpur , where he
starts a week-long visit to the region. “That requires
positioning our forces, positioning our assets to be able to
carry out different options, whatever option the president may
choose.”  Military options include the repositioning of personnel and
assets including ships, so as to be ready if the president
chooses a military intervention, a senior U.S. defense official
told reporters, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss
internal planning.  Obama is under increased pressure to intervene in Syria
amid allegations that President Bashar al-Assad’s government
used chemical arms in an Aug. 21 attack in a Damascus suburb
that opposition groups say killed 1,300 people.  In the Damascus suburb of Ghouta, the 322 deaths documented
“so far” include 54 children, 82 women and dozens of rebels,
the opposition’s Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  said in an
e-mailed statement.  Obama’s Options  Obama is meeting with his national security team in
 Washington  to discuss the reports, a White House official said
in an e-mail statement to reporters. The president has ordered
intelligence officials to gather evidence about what happened.
Once the facts are clear, Obama will make a decision on how to
respond within a range of options that are available, according
to the statement.  The U.S. and the U.K. have pressed Assad’s government to
allow United Nations inspectors to enter the site of the alleged
attack to gather evidence. French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius called on the world to respond “with force” to any use
of chemical weapons.  Iran ’s foreign ministry warned against any international
military action in Syria today, saying that intervention would
heighten tensions in the  Middle East .  “There are no international authorizations for a military
intervention in Syria,” foreign ministry spokesman Abbas Araghchi was quoted as saying by the state-run Iranian Students’
News Agency. “We warn against any moves or announcements that
would result in further tensions in the region.”  Envoy Arrives  Angela Kane, the UN disarmament affairs envoy, arrived in
Damascus today to press the Syrian government to allow experts
to investigate the allegations, the  Associated Press  reported.
Kane didn’t speak to reporters, the AP said.  Internet video and photos showed dead Syrians without
visible wounds after the attack, and reports from local doctors
were consistent with nerve gas or lethal exposure to pesticides.  Three hospitals in the Damascus area working with Doctors
Without Borders received about 3,600 patients displaying
symptoms of exposure to neurotoxins in less than three hours on
the morning of Aug. 21, of whom 355 died, according to a
statement posted on the charity’s website today.  While no representatives of Doctors Without Borders have
not been able to visit the hospitals because of security risks,
medical personnel have described symptoms treated including
convulsions, impaired vision and breathing difficulties, said
Bart Janssens, operations director for the charity.  Suggested Exposure  While Doctors Without Borders couldn’t confirm the cause,
the symptoms strongly suggested exposure on a large scale to
neurotoxins, the charity said.  The international community must “translate words into
actions,” with or without UN Security Council approval, Ahmad
al-Jarba, the president of the opposition Syrian National
Coalition, said at a news conference in Istanbul broadcast by
al-Jazeera.  U.S. intervention in Syria must be part of a broad
international effort, Hagel said, echoing Obama’s comments in an
interview broadcast on CNN earlier yesterday that the U.S. would
need a UN mandate to act in Syria.  Hagel declined to specify how soon the U.S. would decide if
military action is warranted against Assad’s regime.  “The international community is moving swiftly in getting
facts on what did happen and getting the intelligence right and
all the other factors that go into a decision will be made
swiftly and should be made swiftly,” Hagel said.  The U.S. now has four destroyers equipped with Tomahawk
cruise missiles in the  Mediterranean Sea , compared with three
that have been there for months, according to a U.S. official
familiar with the forces there. None of the ships -- the USS
Gravely, the USS Barry, the USS Mahan and the USS Ramage -- has
been assigned a mission, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  