-- U.S., U.K. Mull Response to Syria Chemical Allegations
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-08-25T10:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/u-s-forces-prepare-to-act-on-syria-as-chemicals-alleged.html
The U.S. and U.K. are examining
“all the options” in response to the Syrian government’s
suspected use of chemical weapons, with U.S. Defense Secretary
Chuck Hagel indicating forces are ready to strike if ordered.  President  Barack Obama  spoke by phone with U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron , and the two leaders share “grave
concern” on the reports of alleged chemical weapons use, a
White House statement issued after the 40-minute phone call
said. Cameron’s office said the two leaders reiterated that
significant use of chemical weapons “would merit a serious
response from the international community” and that both have
“tasked officials to examine all the options.”  Obama is under increased pressure to intervene in  Syria 
following allegations that President Bashar al-Assad’s
government used chemical arms in an Aug. 21 attack in a Damascus
suburb that some opposition groups say killed 1,300 people.  In the suburb of Ghouta, the 322 deaths documented “so
far” include 54 children, 82 women and dozens of rebels, the
Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights , a U.K.-based activist
group, said yesterday. More than 180 people were killed across
Syria yesterday, the Observatory said today.  Hagel said the U.S. military is ready to act if Obama
orders a strike on Syria. “The Defense Department has a
responsibility to provide the president with options for all
contingencies,” he told reporters en route to Kuala Lumpur, the
beginning of a week-long visit to the region.  ‘Red Line’  Preparations include the repositioning of personnel and
assets including ships, a senior U.S. defense official told
reporters, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss
internal planning.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and President
 Shimon Peres  called for action against Assad. “It cannot be
allowed for the world’s most dangerous regimes to have the
world’s most dangerous weapons,” Netanyahu said today.  Masoud Jazayeri, the deputy chief of  Iran ’s military,
warned the U.S. of “serious consequences” if it crossed what
he described as a “red line” on Syria, according to the state-run Fars news agency.  The Syrian government hasn’t used chemical weapons and will
give UN inspectors access to the site of the alleged attack,
Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem said, according to a Press TV
report yesterday. The Syrian military also accused rebels of
using chemical weapons, the state-run news agency Sana reported.  ‘Detailed Review’  Obama met with his national security team yesterday to
discuss the reports. U.S. intelligence officials along with
international partners are continuing to gather evidence about
what happened, according to a White House statement issued after
the meeting.  The president received “a detailed review of a range of
potential options he had requested be prepared for the  United
States  and the international community to respond to the use of
chemical weapons,” according to the White House statement.  “We, with our allies, are continuing to assess
intelligence and the specifics of the intelligence on the use of
chemical weapons” by Syria, Hagel said at a news conference in
 Kuala Lumpur . “I wouldn’t go any further than that until we
have more intelligence based on facts.”  Top military officials from nine countries will meet in
Amman, Jordan, in the next few days to discuss regional
security, the state-run Petra news agency reported yesterday,
citing a Jordanian military source. Representatives will attend
from the U.S.,  Saudi Arabia , Qatar,  Turkey , the U.K.,  France ,
 Germany ,  Italy  and  Canada .  ‘With Force’  The U.S. and the U.K. have pressed Assad’s government to
allow United Nations inspectors to enter the site of the alleged
attack to gather evidence. French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius called on the world to respond “with force” to any use
of chemical weapons.  Angela Kane, the UN disarmament affairs envoy, arrived in
Damascus yesterday to press the Syrian government to allow
experts to investigate the allegations, The  Associated Press 
reported. Kane didn’t speak to reporters, the AP said.  Internet video and photos showed dead Syrians without
visible wounds after the attack, and reports from local doctors
were consistent with nerve gas or lethal exposure to pesticides.  Three hospitals in the Damascus area working with Doctors
Without Borders received about 3,600 patients displaying
symptoms of exposure to neurotoxins in less than three hours on
the morning of Aug. 21, of whom 355 died, according to a
statement posted on the charity’s website.  Lethal Exposure  While representatives of Doctors Without Borders haven’t
been able to visit the hospitals because of security risks,
medical personnel have described symptoms treated including
convulsions, impaired vision and breathing difficulties, said
Bart Janssens, operations director for the charity.  While Doctors Without Borders couldn’t confirm the cause,
the symptoms strongly suggested exposure on a large scale to
neurotoxins, the charity said.  The international community must “translate words into
actions,” with or without UN Security Council approval, Ahmad
al-Jarba, the president of the opposition Syrian National
Coalition, said at a news conference in Istanbul broadcast by
al-Jazeera.  U.S. intervention in Syria must be part of a broad
international effort, Hagel said, echoing Obama’s comments in an
interview broadcast on  CNN  last week that the U.S. would need a
UN mandate to act in Syria.  Hagel declined to specify how soon the U.S. would decide if
military action is warranted against Assad’s regime.  “The international community is moving swiftly in getting
facts on what did happen and getting the intelligence right and
all the other factors that go into a decision will be made
swiftly and should be made swiftly,” Hagel said.  The U.S. now has four destroyers equipped with Tomahawk
cruise missiles in the  Mediterranean Sea , compared with three
that have been there for months, according to a U.S. official
familiar with the forces there. None of the ships -- the USS
Gravely, the USS Barry, the USS Mahan and the USS Ramage -- has
been assigned a mission, the official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  