-- Woodland, Kuchar Tied for Lead at Barclays, Woods Trails by Four
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-08-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/woodland-kuchar-tied-for-lead-at-barclays-woods-four-back.html
Gary Woodland and  Matt Kuchar  are
tied for the lead going into the final round today of the
Barclays tournament, the opening event in the U.S. PGA Tour’s
playoff series.  Kuchar, who played five holes yesterday to complete a
second round 6-under 65 at Liberty National Golf Club in Jersey
City, New Jersey, fired a 70 in the third round to stand 12-under at 201. Woodland carded a 68 to match Kuchar’s three-round
total.  “I was just trying to make as many birdies as I could,”
Woodland said yesterday.  “I saw there was a lot of guys making
birdies behind me and I know I saw Kevin Chappell shoot nothing,
so I knew they were out there. You wanted to give yourself as
many birdies as you can going into tomorrow.”  Chappell set a tournament course record with a bogey-free
62 in 10 mile-per-hour (16 kph) winds to end the third round one
stroke off the lead.  “In the wind, if you would have told me someone was going
to shoot 62 today, I would probably have laughed at you,”
Chappell said.  Kuchar said Chappell played “darned good golf” despite
the wind.  “It seems to be in all the golf I’ve played, no matter how
tough the conditions are, somebody finds a way to play good
golf,” Kuchar said. “Sixty-two is just awesome, really good
play. Good for him.”  Tiger Woods , who was suffering with lower back pain he said
came from sleeping in a soft bed in his hotel, shot a 69 for a
three-round score of 8-under 205.  “It starts off great every day, and then it progressively
deteriorates as the day goes on,” said Woods. He is tied with
 David Lynn  of England who also had a 69.  Ending the day at 7-under 206 were Jordan Spieth, Bubba Watson,  Jim Furyk ,  Justin Rose , Jonas Blixt, Kevin Steelman and
 Rickie Fowler .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  