-- Yosemite Rim Fire Prompts Alert for City of San Francisco
-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-08-24T20:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-24/yosemite-wildfire-sparks-state-of-emergency-in-san-francisco.html
A wildfire in Northern  California 
has spread to the fringes of  Yosemite National Park  and prompted
Governor  Jerry Brown  to declare a state of emergency for the San
Francisco area because of the potential effect on its utilities.  The blaze, which originated in Stanislaus National Forest,
has reached a wilderness area of Yosemite, according to the park
website. Temporary interruption of electricity and water
delivery to San Francisco is possible, Brown said in a  statement 
yesterday.  The  U.S. Forest Service  said the blaze, which began Aug.
17, has covered 125,620 acres (50,836 hectares) according to an
 update  posted by the agency about 11:15 a.m. local time today.
The so-called Rim Fire is 5 percent contained, and firefighters
are using aerial tankers to try to suppress the blaze, the
website said.  “We’re up against very hot conditions and a decade of
drought has left some of the fuels about as dry as they can
get,” said Tom Medema, a spokesman for Yosemite National Park,
in a telephone interview. “We’ve done a very good job of
preparing the structures ahead of the fire just in case the fire
should reach more densely populated areas.”  Assessing Situation  Medema said the fire is burning about 20 miles from
Yosemite Valley, which is the most heavily populated area of the
park.  The  San Francisco  Public Utilities Commission was able to
get crews into its Kirkwood and Holm powerhouses today after
they curtailed operations with the fire nearby, said spokesman
Tyron Jue. He said crews were assessing the situation at the two
plants. SF PUC’s Moccasin plant is still up and running, the
commission said in an  update  on its Website.  Yesterday, the commission bought electricity in
California’s wholesale power markets to make up for deactivating
lines and powerhouses in the vicinity of the fire.  The commission also said it doesn’t expect any water issues
from the fire, which is burning about 4 miles (6 kilometers)
from the Hetch Hetchy Reservoir, which supplies water to 2.6
million customers in San Francisco and throughout the  Bay Area .  About 4,500 structures are threatened as the Rim Fire moves
eastward in the direction of the California communities of
Tuolumne City, Twain Harte and Long Barn, which are in and
around  Stanislaus National Forest . These towns are about 140
miles (225 kilometers) east of San Francisco.  ‘Extreme Peril’  Several large fires have already damaged utilities in
 Southern California  in recent months.  A blaze that spread across almost 30,000 acres north of  Los
Angeles  in June triggered “multiple forced outages” on lines
that connect to Northern California and the Pacific Northwest,
according to the California Independent System Operator Corp.,
which manages the state’s power grid.  “Conditions of extreme peril to the safety of persons and
property exist within the state that affect the City and County
of San Francisco,” Brown said.  The damage to Yosemite has been minimal and all lodges and
recreational activities remain open and accessible, according to
the park’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in  Washington  at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  