-- A New Detroit Needs Four Cylinders, Not Eight
-- B y   W i t o l d   R y b c z y n s k i
-- 2013-07-23T13:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/a-new-detroit-needs-four-cylinders-not-eight.html
It’s hardly helpful to a bankrupt
Detroit to say “I told you so,” but I did tell you so. In the
October 1995 issue of the Atlantic, I  suggested  that large Rust
Belt cities such as Detroit, whose populations had declined
drastically during the postwar era, needed to consider planned
shrinkage. This may sound like a declaration of defeat. Yet as I
wrote, “Downsizing has affected private institutions, public
agencies, and the military, as well as businesses. Why not
cities?”  When a city loses population, it loses residents, but keeps
the same amount of infrastructure. The same streets must be
policed and maintained, the same streetlights repaired, the same
water and sewer systems operated, the same transit systems run.
It is like an (impoverished) elderly couple having to keep up a
large house after all the kids have grown up and moved out.  This imbalance has several deleterious effects. Because the
city has fewer taxpayers, the quality of its municipal services
goes down. For example, police response time to 911 calls in
 Detroit  is currently said to be 58 minutes. It expends scarce
resources on nonproductive uses; Philadelphia pays $20 million a
year just to maintain 40,000 vacant properties. Moreover,
because urban vitality depends on density, without an adequate
concentration of people, corner stores close, streets become
empty -- and dangerous -- and abandoned buildings become haunts
for criminal activities. According to a 1973  study  by the
Department of Housing and Urban Development, the tipping point
in a community occurs when only 3 percent to 6 percent of
properties are blighted; many neighborhoods of shrinking cities
passed that point decades ago.  Two Options  A few cities such as  New York  and  Washington  have reversed
their earlier population losses. Others, such as  Boston , are
smaller than they used to be but have developed a solid economic
base. Cities that are unlikely to get bigger or richer have two
options. The first is consolidation. Residents of underpopulated
areas are encouraged to relocate to other parts of the city,
these neighborhoods are reinforced, and the abandoned areas are
essentially mothballed, with all municipal services cut off.  The second option, even more drastic, is divestiture.
Historically, cities have grown by annexing neighboring
communities. They could shrink by doing the opposite: selling
off land in large tracts to private developers who would be
responsible for providing their own municipal services (as they
do in the suburbs) without the burden of city taxes and
bureaucracy. Cities wouldn’t gain taxpayers, but they would
divest themselves of unproductive land, and at the same time,
people and economic activities would be attracted back into the
urban vicinity.  Although no cities have attempted divestiture -- the
political, social and legal obstacles are simply too great -- in
the last decade some cities have begun to consider planned
shrinkage. Flint,  Michigan , and Youngstown,  Ohio , have  adopted 
strategies to encourage downsizing. In 2010, Detroit’s Mayor
Dave Bing  announced  an ambitious consolidation plan that would
raze or recycle about a third of the city. Residents of
depopulated neighborhoods would be encouraged -- not forced --
to move so that streets and buildings could be demolished and
services disconnected.  Consolidation is not a smooth process. It attracts many
opponents, not only the residents affected but also historic
preservationists, local politicians and minority spokesmen. In
Youngstown, as the New York Times  reported , a program to
demolish vacant houses foundered. “Ordinances were passed, but
they fell victim to political infighting and legal action. Code
enforcement was difficult because the city’s planning
department, which employed 28 people in the 1970s, had dwindled
to 3, including the secretary.” In Detroit, popular resistance
to the consolidation plan didn’t take long to materialize.
Because depopulated neighborhoods tend to be in low-income
areas, the stage is set for a David and Goliath confrontation,
often fueled by  bathetic stories  in the news media.  New Urgency  Now that Detroit has declared bankruptcy, consolidation
will probably be put on the back burner. That would be a
mistake. The need for downsizing is, if anything, more urgent,
else the depopulated third of the city act as a millstone,
hobbling efforts at recovery.  The best outcome in Detroit would be if the shock of
bankruptcy brought the various interests in the city together.
Consolidation could be a part of the court-mandated
restructuring process. Experience has shown that voluntary
displacement of residents is unlikely to succeed, and some
version of eminent domain with regard to nonviable neighborhoods
is required.  “Does this sound heartless?” I asked 18 years ago.
“Surely it is less so than the current Polyannaish pretense of
providing services to many poor and depopulated neighborhoods,
which are occasionally half revived with community development
projects and then left on their own to decay even further.”
Shrinkage is a lot tougher than growth, and Detroit has no other
realistic option.  (Witold Rybczynski is an emeritus professor at the
 University of Pennsylvania . His forthcoming book is “How
Architecture Works: A Humanist’s Toolkit.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Witold Rybczynski at  rybczyns@design.upenn.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 