-- Alibaba Building China Delivery Net in Shift to Consumers
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-07-24T04:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/alibaba-building-china-delivery-net-in-shift-to-consumers.html
In her apartment in  Tibet , Lu Ping
sits back and clicks an order for about 1,000 yuan ($161) of
cosmetics. At the other end of  China , online retailer Jian
Weiqing receives the order in his office near a  Shanghai  airport
and prepares Lu’s shipment, which will arrive in the distant
province within four days.  Standing between the two is Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., the
Chinese Internet juggernaut heading toward what analysts expect
to be the biggest initial public offering since  Facebook Inc. (FB)   After starting as a business-to-business marketplace where
companies trade anything from shoelaces to steel, Alibaba has
morphed into a far more consumer-focused operation. The company
now gets the bulk of its sales and most of its growth selling to
individuals across China, from villagers in places without
supermarkets and malls to sophisticated consumers in Beijing and
Shanghai seeking to avoid pollution and traffic.  “Foreign brands are just not that common here,” said Lu,
who owns a hostel in Lhasa, the provincial capital of Tibet.
“Online, I can get almost anything I want. And it’s so cheap”
-- at least 20 percent less than department stores, she says.  Alibaba, which takes a cut of goods sold and charges
retailers such as Jian to run ads on the site, says it generates
about 70 percent of package deliveries in China. Consumers
bought at least 1 trillion  yuan  in goods via Alibaba last year,
a figure equivalent to almost 2 percent of China’s GDP.  Retail Engine  As Alibaba becomes a vital retail engine for China, founder
Jack Ma understands he can’t keep growing without adequate
distribution of the goods sold on his sites. So his next big
initiative is the creation of a delivery network that can reach
virtually any place in China within 24 hours.  To make that happen, Alibaba joined with five delivery
companies and other partners to found Cainiao Internet
Technology Ltd. Alibaba has said Cainiao will invest as much as
100 billion yuan within eight years to develop and manage a
logistics network.  Though Cainiao has been vague about its plans, Cao Lei, a
director at the China E-Business Research Center in Hangzhou,
speculates that it will tap Alibaba’s data-crunching
capabilities to help distribution companies optimize storage and
delivery schedules and ensure their trucks take the cheapest and
fastest routes.  “The smaller delivery companies have to join forces with
Alibaba, because if they don’t they will be eliminated,” Cao
said.  FedEx Rivals  Ma’s goal is to help Chinese delivery companies gain the
kind of scale and efficiency enjoyed by  United Parcel Service
Inc. (UPS)  and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  in the U.S. In China, the American delivery
giants are smaller than many domestic rivals because they mostly
serve multinationals and charge higher prices.  “FedEx and UPS are very small players in China and cater
to a different group of customers,” said Richard Tai, an
analyst at consulting firm China Research & Intelligence in
Shanghai.  Since Ma founded the company in his Hangzhou apartment in
1999 with only two dozen items for sale, he has expanded to
24,000 employees and marketplaces selling millions of products.
The company said yesterday it was collaborating with Wasu Media
Holding Co. on a set-top box connecting TVs to the Internet.  Alibaba’s earnings more than tripled to $669 million in the
March quarter on sales that surged 71 percent to $1.4 billion.
The company posted more revenue in the period than   Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ,
which owns a 24 percent stake in Alibaba, and its profit margin
is wider than Apple Inc.’s.  $120 Billion IPO  Ma, whose fortune is estimated at $3.4 billion by the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index , last year said he was considering
an initial public offering. If it keeps its momentum, Alibaba’s
operating profit could reach $4.3 billion this year, and $7.1
billion in 2014, according to Evercore Group LLC. An IPO could
value Alibaba at $120 billion, Evercore predicts, which would
make it the biggest tech IPO in history, eclipsing last year’s
$104 billion pricetag for Facebook Inc.  Alibaba has no timetable for an IPO and hasn’t hired
bankers, according to John Spelich, a spokesman for Alibaba in
Hong Kong.  The company itself doesn’t sell merchandise; It provides a
marketplace for online retailers that sell more than $3 billion
in goods a day on its sites. The two most popular are  Taobao
Marketplace , which links individual buyers and sellers, and
 Tmall.com , which connects consumers to retail brands such as
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , and Japanese clothing
chain Uniqlo.  Millionaire E-Tailers  “Malls and department stores no longer attract me,” said
Wang Lin, an English teacher in southwestern Sichuan province.
“I just lie in bed comfortably, and I can shop around the
country and even the world.”  Many Taobao store owners have become millionaires. Jian,
who runs  Chen Chen Cosmetic , the supplier of Lu Ping’s face
creams, is one. The 38-year-old has expanded his online business
from a one-man operation to a staff of nearly 50 in the past
eight years. Last year, he sold more than 30 million yuan of
beauty products.  “Jack Ma is really something,” said Jian. “Without him,
my company wouldn’t exist.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  