-- Alibaba Offers Smart TV Operating System to Lure More Users
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-23T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/alibaba-to-offer-smart-tv-operating-system-to-lure-more-users.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s
largest e-commerce company, has designed a smart television
operating system and set-top box to win more users by offering
services on a wider spectrum of devices.  Alibaba’s system will run a set-top box developed in
collaboration with  Wasu Media Holding Co. (000156)  that will link TVs to
the Internet, Yu Ce, vice president of Alibaba, said at a press
conference in Beijing yesterday. Other manufacturers will also
incorporate the system, which will include online shopping, and
integrate its payment system Alipay in their TVs, Yu said.  Billionaire chairman Jack Ma has expanded lending, secured
financing and made acquisitions as Alibaba’s sales surge from
services connecting businesses to each other and consumers. The
company’s new foray, which aims to combine TV with online
shopping, comes as consumers’ living rooms are turning into a
major battleground for technology companies this year.  “TVs in the future will not only play videos but also
shoulder responsibilities of entertainment and gaming,” said
Alex Wang Tingting, a Beijing-based analyst at Internet
consulting group  iResearch . “This will help Alibaba gain a new
access point for more users.”  The set-top box is called the Wasu Rainbow and is planned
for release around September, Wasu President Li Yiqing said at
the press conference. The device will be manufactured by a third
party that has yet to be determined, Li said. She declined to
comment on the price.  Smart TVs  Gartner Inc.  projects  that about 85 percent of flat-panel
TVs will be Internet-connected smart TVs by 2016. Global
production of flat-panel smart TVs will increase to 198 million
in 2016 from 69 million in 2012, the  Stamford , Connecticut-based
market researcher estimates.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s largest television
maker, acquired Boxee Inc. this month to add connected TV set-top boxes that can record broadcasts and stream online video.
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)  are set to release new video-game
consoles that emphasize features for streaming and downloading
entertainment content.  Many Chinese companies including  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the
world’s second-biggest maker of personal computers, are also
expanding to add production of smart TVs. Lenovo said last year
it will begin sales of so-called smart televisions that can
access the Internet in nine Chinese cities.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  