-- Aluminum Seen by LME in No Shortage as Buyers Say Costs Rose
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-07-23T18:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/aluminum-seen-by-lme-in-no-shortage-as-buyers-say-costs-rose-1-.html
The  London  Metal Exchange, the
world’s biggest metals marketplace, said there is no “reported
shortage” of aluminum after buyers complained about inflated
costs and backlogs at the bourse’s storage network.  Consumers can buy the metal used in cars and beverage cans
directly from producers as they always have done, the LME said
in a statement e-mailed today, in response to a U.S. Senate
subcommittee hearing today on whether banks should own
warehouses or oil refineries. The total price of aluminum has
fallen 40 percent since July 2008, the LME said. The exchange is
legally restricted from limiting rents and can’t prevent trading
companies from owning warehouses, it said.  Global aluminum costs were inflated by $3 billion in the
past year through LME rules that allow  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other warehouse owners to slow
deliveries, said a risk executive at brewer MillerCoors LLC. The
 U.S. Congress  should rein in banks’ ability to own and trade raw
materials or risk another financial collapse,  Joshua Rosner  of
Graham Fisher & Co. said at the hearing today.  “If banks are forced to sell warehouses, the most likely
buyers are entities such as trading houses,  hedge funds  or non-U.S. regulated banks, which means an increased concentration of
the ownership of LME warehousing among a smaller number of
players,”  David Wilson , an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in London,
said by phone today “It will push out the warehousing outside
the remit of the U.S. regulators.”  LME Proposal  The LME on July 1 proposed linking delivery of metal from
warehouses to metal that can be taken in. Its attempts to ease
the backlog didn’t go far enough and fast enough to solve the
problem, Tim Weiner, a global risk manager at Chicago-based
MillerCoors, said at the hearing.  Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Glencore Xstrata Plc and Trafigura
Beheer BV bought storage companies in 2010. The practices of
warehouse owners authorized to hold metal by the LME created
artificial limits on available supply, leaving prices “inflated
relative to the massive oversupply and record production,”
Weiner said in a written testimony.  The brewers’ concerns are shared by metal buyers including
beverage makers Coca-Cola Co. and Dr. Pepper Snapple Group Inc.
and manufacturers Novelis Inc. and Ball Corp., Weiner said.  Aluminum for delivery in three months on the LME has fallen
30 percent to $1,845.50 a metric ton in the past two years.
Premiums added to aluminum on the LME surged to a record 12
cents to 13 cents a pound in June, almost double from 6.5 cents
in the summer of 2010, according to data from Austin, Texas-based researcher  Harbor Intelligence .  Aluminum Prices  While aluminum prices are down about 45 percent to $1,800 a
ton since July 2008 on the LME, premiums are reportedly higher
at $260 a ton from $100 a ton, the LME said.  Backlogs have grown as more metal got tied up in financing
deals that typically involve the purchase of metal for nearby
delivery and a forward sale to take advantage of a market
contango, where prices rise into the future. Aluminum users are
sometimes forced to wait more than 18 months for delivery
because of “unfair” warehouse practices, Weiner said.  Conditions in  commodities markets  are “exceptional,”
after the financial crisis of 2008-09 and low interest rates and
stimulus measures that followed, the LME said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  