-- Lance Armstrong Asks Judge to Dismiss False Claims Suit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/lance-armstrong-asks-judge-to-dismiss-u-s-false-claims-suit.html
Lance Armstrong , the former champion
cyclist, asked a judge to throw out a lawsuit claiming he
defrauded the U.S. by using banned substances in violation of
his team’s contract with the U.S. Postal Service.  Armstrong, in papers submitted yesterday in federal court
in  Washington , said the complaint filed against him under the
 False Claims Act  by the U.S. Justice Department is barred by a
six-year statute of limitations and that the false statements
claim isn’t supported by the law. He’s also seeking dismissal of
a second complaint brought by his ex-teammate, Floyd Landis.  “The government waited over a decade to file suit against
Lance Armstrong for one reason and one reason only: It got
everything it bargained for from Armstrong and his cycling
team,” John Keker, a lawyer for Armstrong, said in the filing,
which referred to “tens of millions of dollars’ worth” of
publicity for the  Postal Service .  The government, which joined the Landis suit in April,
alleges the U.S. paid Tailwind Sports Corp. and its predecessor
companies about $40 million through the team’s contracts with
the Postal Service from 1998 through 2004. The contracts
required the team to refrain from using substances banned by the
sport’s governing bodies.  Tailwind used Postal Service sponsorship fees to pay
Armstrong’s salary of $17.9 million during those years,
according to the complaint. The U.S. is seeking triple damages.  Tailwind Team  Tailwind and  Johan Bruyneel , who was director of the
Tailwind team, filed requests yesterday to throw out the case.
Bruyneel said he would join Armstrong’s motion to dismiss.  Landis doesn’t have the authority to pursue his claims
against Armstrong now that the government has intervened,
according to a second filing by Keker, of Keker & Van Nest LLP
in  San Francisco .  “Both complaints are forced to rely on a theory that
Armstrong failed to comply with provisions in two contracts with
the U.S. Postal Service to which Armstrong was not a signatory
and knew nothing about,” Keker said in the motion to dismiss
Landis’s lawsuit.  The U.S government was aware of doping allegations against
Armstrong’s team being investigated by French authorities in
2000, according to the filing. One month after learning of the
probe, the Postal Service entered into a new four-year contract
with the team. The government doesn’t allege that the Postal
Service sought to have its inspector general or the  Justice
Department  launch its own investigation, which could have
prolonged the statute of limitations, according to the filing.  Nine Days  The six-year statute of limitations on the most recent
false claim expired nine days before Landis filed suit on June
10, 2010, Armstrong argues.  Armstrong asked U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins to hold
arguments in court on the dismissal requests.  The Justice Department brought six counts of false claims,
fraud and unjust enrichment against Armstrong, Bruyneel and
Tailwind Sports. An additional breach of contract claim was
brought against Tailwind. Tailwind founder Thomas Weisel, one of
several additional defendants in Landis’s suit, wasn’t named in
the U.S. complaint.  Weisel, a San Francisco investment banker, in a filing
yesterday asked Wilkins to throw out the Landis case, arguing
that Landis’s complaint includes no facts “that Mr. Weisel knew
anything about that doping” or ever submitted any invoice or
claim for payment to the Postal Service.  A record seven-time  Tour de France  winner from 1999 to
2005, Armstrong was stripped of the titles by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency in August. The cyclist acknowledged in a
television interview with  Oprah Winfrey  in January that he used
a “cocktail” of testosterone, erythropoietin and blood
transfusions throughout his career.  Lead Rider  Armstrong, 41, made at least $221 million since turning
professional, according to a compilation of his earnings by
 Bloomberg News . He was the team’s lead rider from 1999 to 2004.  Landis, who could receive some of the award if the case is
successful, in August admitted defrauding donors to his legal
defense fund by falsely claiming that he hadn’t used
performance-enhancing drugs during his professional cycling
career. The admission was part of a deferred prosecution
agreement filed in federal court in  San Diego .  Bill Miller , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen in
Washington, declined to comment on the filings. The government’s
response is due in September.  The case is U.S., ex rel.  Floyd Landis  v. Tailwind Sports
Corp., 10-cv-00976, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  