-- Angolan Capital Overtakes Tokyo as Most Costly City for Expats
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-07-23T09:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/angolan-capital-overtakes-tokyo-as-most-costly-city-for-expats.html
The Angolan capital Luanda has
overtaken  Tokyo  to become the world’s most expensive city for
expatriates in a survey of 214 cities by Mercer, which cited
security for pushing up costs.  “Despite being one of Africa’s major oil producers,  Angola 
is a relatively poor country yet expensive for expatriates since
imported goods can be costly,” Barb Marder, a senior partner at
Mercer, said in a statement with the company’s annual Worldwide
Cost of Living Survey. “In addition, finding secure living
accommodations that meet the standards of expatriates can be
challenging and quite costly.”  Tokyo, last year’s No. 1, slipped to third place, with
Moscow moving into second spot, Mercer said. They were followed
by Ndjamena in  Chad ,  Singapore  and  Hong Kong . Switzerland took
the next three places with Geneva, Zurich and Bern, while Sydney
was in 10th place.  The analysis uses  New York  as a base city and measures the
comparative prices in each location. Housing costs play an
“important part” in determining rankings, as they are often
the biggest expense, according to Mercer.  Monthly rent for a “luxury two-bedroom unfurnished
apartment” in Luanda is $6,500, while in Moscow it’s $4,600. In
Zurich, a cinema ticket costs $20.66 while a cup of coffee is
$5.98. The comparable items in Singapore are $9.28 and $4.84. A
coffee in Moscow is $8.29.  “Overall, the cost of living in cities across parts of
Europe have gone up in the ranking as a result of the slight
strengthening of local currencies against the  U.S. dollar ,
whereas in Asia about half of the cities went down in the
ranking –- Japan especially –- due to local currencies’
weakening,” said Nathalie Constantin-Metral, who compiled the
survey ranking.  The euro has gained 9.4 percent in the past year, the best
performer among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has dropped 24
percent in the same period. The Japanese cities of Osaka and
Nagoya both dropped out of the top 10 in the Mercer rankings
this year. Bern and Sydney replaced them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  