-- Coffee Gains Before Brazil Cold Weather; Cocoa Rises
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-07-23T12:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/arabica-coffee-gains-before-brazil-cold-weather-cocoa-advances.html
(Corrects  Sao Paulo  production in fifth paragraph.)  Arabica coffee climbed for a second
day in  New York  on speculation investors are closing bets on
lower prices before cold weather that may bring frost to some
producing areas in leading grower  Brazil . Cocoa and sugar rose.  A polar air mass will advance in the state of Parana early
tomorrow, with minimum temperatures falling as low as minus 1
degree Celsius (30 degrees Fahrenheit), weather forecaster Somar
Meteorologia said in a report e-mailed yesterday. While cold
weather may bring frost to some areas of Parana, lower
temperatures in the southeast will leave trees undamaged in Sao
Paulo and Minas Gerais, the largest arabica-producing state,
Somar said.  “All eyes are on the Brazilian weather and whether or not
we see some degree of crop damage from the cold snap expected
mid-week,” Sterling Smith, a futures specialist at Citigroup
Inc., said in a report e-mailed yesterday. “Forecasts are
looking for cold, but extremely limited, if any, crop damage.”  Arabica coffee for delivery in September advanced 0.9
percent to $1.264 a pound by 6:33 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York. Robusta coffee for the same delivery month rose 0.5
percent to $1,954 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in London.  Parana is forecast to produce 1.7 million bags of coffee in
the 2013-14 season, while total production in Brazil is
estimated at 48.6 million bags, according to  data  from the state
crop-forecasting agency, known as Conab.  Minas Gerais  is set to
produce 25.5 million bags and Sao Paulo 4.3 million bags, the
data showed.  Colder Weather  Funds with short positions, or betting on lower prices,
reacted to predictions for colder weather by some forecasters,
 Rodrigo Costa , a trading director at Elmsford, New York-based
dealer Caturra Coffee Corp., wrote in a report July 21 for Sao
Paulo-based Archer Consulting, where he acts as a contributor.
While lower temperatures may not damage the crop, holders of
short positions opted against running the risk, he said.  Large and small speculators excluding  index funds  reduced
their net-short position, or bets on lower prices, for arabica
coffee to 28,452 contracts in the week ended July 16, according
to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission figures.  Cocoa for delivery in September gained 0.8 percent to 1,604
pounds ($2,462) a ton in  London . Cocoa for the same delivery
month climbed 0.7 percent to $2,365 a ton in New York.  Refined, or white, sugar for delivery in October added 0.5
percent to $474.50 a ton on NYSE Liffe. Raw sugar for the same
delivery month gained 0.2 percent to 16.43 cents a pound on ICE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 