-- Hard-to-Believe GDP in Argentina Triggers Warrants Surge
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-07-23T12:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/hard-to-believe-gdp-in-argentina-triggers-warrants-surge.html
Securities linked to Argentina’s
economy are surging by the most in almost three years as faster-than-projected growth fuels speculation the nation will expand
enough this year to trigger a payout.  The warrants yesterday jumped 13 percent to a high this
year of 8.1 cents after President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
said on July 17 the economy grew 7.8 percent in May from a year
earlier, exceeding economists’ estimates for 5.9 percent. Their
13.6 percent advance last week was the biggest increase since
September 2010 and five times the average for emerging-market
government  bonds , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  While Argentina became the first country censured by the
International Monetary Fund for unreliable economic data in
February, investors in the warrants are gaining confidence the
nation will expand more than the 3.22 percent needed to trigger
a payment after the government’s official data topped analysts’
growth estimates for a second straight month. The economy was
bolstered by a record harvest and improving construction and
automobile industries, according to Tavelli & Cia.  “It’s going to be very difficult for anyone to argue that
Argentina’s not going to post a strong official growth number
this year, so that’s good news for the warrants,”  Daniel Volberg , an economist at Morgan Stanley, said in a telephone
interview from New York.  Warrant’s Rally  The average projection for growth this year is 2.5 percent,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 24 economists.  The 2013 budget, approved by Congress last November,
envisages economic growth of 4.4 percent. On July 12, Clarin
newspaper, citing Economy Ministry officials it didn’t name,
reported the government was maintaining that forecast.  Ministry spokeswoman Norma Madeo didn’t reply to an e-mail
from Bloomberg seeking comments on economic growth this year and
GDP warrant payments.  If full-year growth exceeds the threshold, the securities
would be worth 9.61 cents, according to a July 17 report by
Buenos Aires research company Quantum Finanzas.  Warrants have surged 43 percent since June 27, when the
 Economy Ministry  reported April that  economic activity  rose 7
percent, compared with analysts’ estimates of 5 percent.  Based on 8.9 percent economic expansion in 2011, Fernandez
made a $3.5 billion payment on the warrants in December. No
payment will be made this year as 2 percent growth in 2012 was
less than the 3.26 percent trigger for that year.  “Either the economy would have to slow very sharply or
there would have to be revision in numbers for there not to be a
coupon payment on the warrants,” Juan Pablo Vera, head analyst
at brokerage Tavelli & Cia., said in a telephone interview from
Buenos Aires.  ‘Growth Dynamic’  Last year, economic activity expanded 1 percent in April
and contracted 0.7 percent in May.  Argentines probably won’t be aware of an increase in
economic activity because the government is likely
overestimating growth numbers, Morgan Stanley’s Volberg said.  “True growth dynamic in Argentina remains very much
subdued, somewhere in the 3-percent range,” he said. “Whether
we’re talking about people’s real incomes, the job market,
investment, etc., we’re not going to see the same kind of impact
as a real 8 percent number.”  Even if official economic growth is more than 3.22 percent,
the payouts will hinge on the outcome of a U.S. legal dispute
with creditors from Argentina’s record $95 billion default in
2001, according to Citigroup Inc.  Paul Singer  Owners of securities left over from the default are
demanding $1.4 billion. Argentina said it will only pay the so-called holdouts, led by billionaire investorPaul Singer, the
same as it offered in a 2010 restructuring, which was worth
about 30 cents on the dollar. U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa
has ordered trustees to withhold payments on restructured debt
if Argentina doesn’t also pay defaulted debt.  “There are significant risks,” wrote Citigroup analysts
Guillermo Mondino and Fernando Diaz in a July 22 report. “If
the court ruling implements a final formula higher than what
Argentina is willing to pay, the trustee is bound by the
injunction, and a new stay of execution is not warranted, bonds
and warrant payments could be at risk.”  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Argentine
government debt instead of U.S. Treasuries widened two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1,042 basis points at 9:08
a.m. in Buenos Aires, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global Diversified index.  Argentina’s five-year credit default swaps, contracts that
protect holders of the nation’s debt against non-payment, rose
16 basis points to 2,204 basis points, the highest in the world,
at 8 a.m. in New York.  ‘Base Case’  Sluggish 2012 activity, a recovery in grain and soybean
harvests that were affected by drought last season, and a pickup
in the car and construction industries are driving this year’s
faster growth, Tavelli’s Vera said.  Argentina, the world’s third-largest exporter of corn and
soybeans, had a record harvest of 105.4 million tons in the past
season, according to a July 17 statement on the presidential
website.  Demand from  Brazil  is helping  car exports , which surged
73.1 percent in May, while Argentines are buying more vehicles
as a hedge against inflation, according to a June 28 report by
Economia & Regiones. Consumer prices rose an estimated 23.4
percent in May from a year earlier, according to private
economists, more than double the 10.3 percent reported by the
government’s statistics agency.  “My bet is the economy is going to slow, but if you look
at what has been the average growth so far for the year, we’re
already talking about 4.8 percent just in the first five
months,” Volberg said. “From the point of view of the
warrants, you need to somehow justify a contracting economy
which is always a possibility but that doesn’t seem like the
base case.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  