-- Armstrong Team Chief Joins Cyclist’s Bid to Zap U.S. Suit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-23T20:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/armstrong-team-director-joins-cyclist-s-bid-to-toss-u-s-suit.html
The ex-manager of  Lance Armstrong ’s
the U.S. Postal Service team cycling team joined the disgraced
athlete in seeking dismissal of a lawsuit claiming they
defrauded the government by allowing or using banned substances.  Johan Bruyneel , who managed the Tailwind Sports Corp. team,
filed his request today to dismiss the complaints accusing him
of False Claims Act violations brought by the U.S.  Justice
Department  and ex-teammate Floyd Landis. Bruyneel, in the filing
in federal court in  Washington , said he would join Armstrong’s
motion to dismiss, which is due today.  Bruyneel said the government’s case is barred by the
statute of limitations and that the false statements claim in
the government’s case isn’t supported by the law. He also said
the U.S. can’t make a reverse false claim because it hasn’t
alleged that Bruyneel had any obligation to pay money to the
government.  The government, which joined the Landis suit in April,
alleges the U.S. paid Tailwind about $40 million through the
team’s contract with the U.S. Postal Service from 1998 through
2004. The contract required the team to refrain from using
substances banned by the sport’s governing bodies.  Tailwind used Postal Service sponsorship fees to pay
Armstrong’s salary of $17.9 million during those years,
according to the complaint. The U.S. is seeking triple damages.  The Justice Department brought six counts of false claims,
fraud and unjust enrichment against Armstrong, Bruyneel and
Tailwind Sports. An additional breach of contract claim was
brought against Tailwind. Tailwind founder Thomas Weisel, one of
several additional defendants in Landis’s suit, wasn’t named in
the U.S. complaint.  The case is U.S., ex rel.  Floyd Landis  v. Tailwind Sports
Corp., 10-cv-00976, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  