-- Arrow-Avnet Signal Tech Growth as PC Sales Fall: EcoPulse
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2013-07-23T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/arrow-avnet-signal-tech-growth-as-pc-sales-fall-ecopulse.html
Investors are looking at  Arrow
Electronics Inc. (ARW)  and  Avnet Inc. (AVT)  to see if corporate technology
spending will grow more than forecast this year.  Expenditures worldwide on data-center systems -- comprising
servers, storage and network equipment -- will increase about
2.4 percent this year to $127.3 billion, based on projections
from Gartner Inc., an industry researcher. That follows gains of
almost 2.6 percent last year.  This estimate has remained stable, and halfway through the
year it’s “on pace with every other indicator we track,” said
John Lovelock, a research vice president in Toronto at Gartner.  Arrow’s global enterprise-computing solutions business and
Avnet’s technology-solutions unit provide good barometers of
information-technology hardware spending, according to Shawn Harrison, an analyst in Independence,  Ohio , at Longbow Research
LLC. Real-time indicators such as cancellation rates -- along
with guidance from the companies’ executives -- are useful to
investors who track incremental changes in demand, he said.  These companies are bellwethers also because they’re not in
the personal-computer business, so they aren’t exposed to the
weakening demand for these products that has hurt  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC) , he added.  Arrow is scheduled to report second-quarter results
tomorrow. Avnet plans to release its fiscal fourth-quarter
report on Aug. 7.  Slowly Improving  After demand for the products they sell slowed in mid-summer and early fall last year, there are signs that some
metrics, such as the bookings rate, are “slowly improving,”
Harrison said. “IT budgets appear to be holding firm.”  The Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas  noted progress in the
July 17 Beige Book business survey, saying “high-tech orders
and production were flat to slightly up” since the June 5
report. The San Francisco Fed’s Tech Pulse Index also reflects
the shift, rising for a fourth consecutive month to 98.67 in
June, the highest since 2008. This index tracks the health of
the U.S. IT industry using investment, consumption, employment,
industrial-production and shipment data.  The pace of tech-hardware spending is picking up as
“purchasing managers are starting to press on the gas a
little,” said Christian Bertelsen, who oversees more than $1.5
billion in assets as chief investment officer of Global
Financial Private Capital in Sarasota,  Florida . Companies are
investing in part to replace old equipment after purchases were
delayed last year, he said.  Growing Revenue  Arrow’s global enterprise-computing solutions revenue grew
8 percent from a year ago to $1.66 billion in the three months
ended March 30, the Englewood, Colorado-based company said May
1. It forecasts second-quarter sales will be between $1.75
billion and $1.95 billion, compared with almost $1.7 billion a
year ago.  Worldwide sales in Phoenix-based Avnet’s technology-solutions business fell 0.9 percent from a year earlier to about
$2.5 billion in the three months ended March 30, it reported
April 25.  Bertelsen said Arrow and Avnet will provide an “excellent
tell” for investors on  capital-spending  trends -- particularly
among small- to mid-sized businesses -- when they report in the
next two weeks. That’s because these companies could provide
“real confirmation” that demand is improving after “some of
the dog-eat-dog days” of late 2012, he said.  Bullish Outlook  Bertelsen also will consider the guidance these
distributors provide to determine if sales are poised to rebound
further, supporting his bullish outlook on the tech industry for
the year, he said.  In the U.S., economic growth is forecast to accelerate to
2.3 percent in the third quarter and 2.6 percent in the fourth,
based on the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. That follows a gain of 1.8 percent in the three
months ended March 31, and a projected increase of 1.5 percent
for the second quarter.  In addition to their usefulness as macroeconomic
barometers, these companies also pass Bertelsen’s tests for
interesting investment opportunities. The stocks are cheap on a
historical basis and are “priced for low expectations” that
may not accurately reflect an improvement in tech spending for
the year, he said. “They’re cheap and under-owned.”  Entry Point  Avnet and Arrow stocks now are trading at “close to
parity” on a price-to-book ratio: about 1.2 times the value of
assets, compared with a historical peak multiple of 1.5,
Harrison said. Valuations close to book value provide a “good
entry point” for some investors, he said, adding that he
maintains buy recommendations on both.  Shares of Arrow have outpaced the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index by almost 11 percentage points since May 1, while Avnet’s
stock has led the same benchmark index by about 8 percentage
points. That follows 15 months when these stocks lagged behind
the market by 34 percentage points and 30 percentage points.  Their recent performance shows that investor sentiment
started to improve in May after a prolonged selloff, said Jim Stellakis, founder and director of research at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based research company Technical Alpha Inc. and a
chartered market technician. Shares of Avnet and Arrow are
“having a good move,” though they need to trade above relative
highs from earlier this year to show that “investors are more
comfortable overweighting these stocks.”  Global Indicators  Some investors aren’t as bullish. Even though data from
Avnet and Arrow are useful as “global indicators of what’s
going on,” Marty Leclerc of Barrack Yard Advisors would avoid
their stocks. These companies “lack a history of enhancing
 shareholder value  and so don’t have much in the way of
investment merit,” said Leclerc, chief investment officer
overseeing $350 million in assets in  Bryn Mawr ,  Pennsylvania .  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  or  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
are “a much better place for investors to look to participate
in any rebound in global IT capital spending,” Leclerc said.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for
worldwide growth for a fifth consecutive time earlier this
month, to 3.1 percent in 2013, unchanged from the 2012 rate.  Cloud Headwind  Arrow and Avnet also must address how they’ll adapt as
demand shifts further in favor of cloud-based computing,
Harrison said. That’s because these companies don’t currently
have a “fully formed presence to address this growing industry
in their distribution businesses,” he said. “Everyone knows
that there’s a headwind coming.”  In the near term, they could benefit from pent-up demand as
small- and mid-sized company executives become more comfortable
with investing in technology again. In addition, a traditional
“budget flush” could buoy demand for servers, storage and
network gear as companies spend remaining funds at year end,
Lovelock said.  Orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft, a
proxy for future business investment in computers, electronics
and other equipment, rose 3.4 percent in May from a year ago,
following a 4.5 percent gain the prior month, according to data
from the Census Bureau.  Such improvements underscore Bertelsen’s bullish outlook on
the technology industry and help explain why he’s considering
investing in Arrow and Avnet stocks again, he said.  “I think we’re going to see better things ahead in this
industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  