-- Arsenal Nears $32.2 Million Deal to Sign Bernard: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-23T05:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/arsenal-nears-32-2-million-deal-to-sign-bernard-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Arsenal’s Advanced Talks  Arsenal is in advanced talks to sign Brazilian playmaker
Bernard for a club-record 21 million pounds ($32.2 million) from
Atletico Mineiro, the  London  Evening Standard reported.  Bernard, 20, has scored 21 goals in 97 games for Atletico
and is said to have agreed on a five-year contract worth 50,000
pounds a week after tax, the newspaper said. He’ll have a
physical exam in London on July 26, the Standard added.  Third Fabregas Bid?  Manchester United  is considering a club-record bid of 35
million pounds for Cesc Fabregas after Barcelona rejected its
second offer of 30 million pounds for the  Spain  midfielder, the
 Guardian reported .  United made the second bid before Tito Vilanova resigned as
Barca coach July 19 to receive treatment for cancer and was
privately told that Fabregas is “completely nontransferable,”
the newspaper added.  United Warned Off  Lazio warned United off making a bid for Antonio Candreva
by stating that the Italian midfielder is not for sale, the
 Daily Express reported .  Candreva played for  Italy  at last month’s Confederations
Cup on the back of an impressive season with Lazio that
culminated in helping the team win the Coppa Italia, the
newspaper added.  Tottenham Targets  Tottenham Hotspur bid as much as 25.5 million pounds for
Valencia striker  Roberto Soldado  and also wants to sign forward
Lisandro Lopez from French club Lyon, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Spurs’ Technical Director Franco Baldini has traveled to
Spain for negotiations and the Mirror cited Valencia President
Amadeo Salvo as saying the offer “isn’t too far off.”  Lopez, whom Spurs tried to sign in January, has a year left
on his contract and has made it clear to Lyon that he wants to
move this offseason, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  