-- Marubeni Seeks 20% of China Corn Imports Set to Surge in Decade
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-07-23T04:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/marubeni-seeks-20-of-china-corn-imports-set-to-surge-in-decade.html
Marubeni Corp. (8002) , Japan’s biggest
agricultural trader, sees China’s demand for imported corn
rising almost fourfold within a decade as the company seeks to
raise its share to 20 percent.  With the $2.7 billion purchase of the third-largest U.S.
grain merchandiser Gavilon Group LLC this month, Marubeni has
increased its corn supply and will use that to boost Chinese
exports, said Daisuke Okada, a managing executive officer at the
Tokyo-based trading company. Marubeni already supplies about 20
percent of China’s soybean imports, he said.  “I’d like to have our market share at 20 percent, that’s
the figure we want to see in all the countries we sell in,”
Okada said at a briefing yesterday. “China’s demand for coal,
metals and so on is weakening but there’s no stopping of growth
for grains.”  China, the world’s second-largest corn exporter as recently
as the 2002 to 2003 marketing year, is  forecast  to import 19.6
million metric tons of corn by 2022 to 2023, according to the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture . That would mean China’s imports
will account for 40 percent of the project growth in world corn
trade, the USDA said in February report.  China bought a record 5.23 million tons of corn in the
marketing year ended Sept. 30, according to the USDA.  Buying Gavilon has given Marubeni access to 144 American
grain collection and storage facilities, as well as trading and
sourcing relationships with producers in Australia, Ukraine and
Brazil, among others. Together with Marubeni’s current assets,
the trader will handle 55 million tons of grain annually.  Locked Up  With Gavilon, Marubeni has lined up alongside the world’s
top grain traders: Cargill Inc.,  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) ,
 Bunge Ltd. (BG) , Louis Dreyfus Group and  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the
Japanese company’s Okada said.  The six companies now control almost all the available
grain handling assets in the world, which means the main way to
expand in this market will be through partnerships, Okada said.
Some of Marubeni’s rivals have already approached the trader
with offers, he said.  Marubeni also plans to pick a local partner next month to
help it expand its feed grain business in Southeast Asia, Okada
said. The trader last year formed an alliance with China’s New
Hope Liuhe Co., a unit of China’s biggest producer of animal
feed and meat, to expand jointly in  emerging markets  in Africa,
the Middle East, eastern Europe and  South America .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  