-- Masraf Heads for 2011 High as Profit Tops Estimates: Doha Mover
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-07-23T09:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/masraf-heads-for-2011-high-as-profit-tops-estimates-doha-mover.html
Masraf Al Rayan headed for the
highest level since December 2011 after Qatar’s biggest Shariah-compliant bank by market value reported second-quarter profit
that beat estimates.  The shares  increased 1.3 percent, the most in a month, to
28.10 riyals at 12:08 p.m. in Doha. Volume climbed to 1.2
million shares, twice the stock’s three-month daily average.
Masraf Al Rayan, which offers banking services that comply with
Islam’s ban on interest, was the second-biggest gainer on the
benchmark QE Index, which was little changed.  The Doha-based lender’s net income for the three months
ended June 30 grew 13 percent to 421 million riyals, exceeding
the 419 million-riyal average estimate of five analysts  compiled
by Bloomberg . Masraf Al Rayan’s profit has  beat estimates  in the
last three quarters, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Masraf’s results were “a positive surprise,” Jaap Meijer,
Dubai-based director of equity research at Arqaam Capital Ltd.,
said in an e-mailed note. The financial results reflect
“healthy asset quality and continued ability to reduce funding
costs to overcome asset yield pressure.”  Qatari bank lending may rebound from the slowest in almost
two years as the country’s new leadership invests $200 billion
in infrastructure before the 2022 soccer World Cup, according to
analysts including Akber Khan, director of asset management at
Al Rayan Investment in Doha.  Arqaam has a  hold recommendation  on Masraf shares, with a
price estimate of 25.9 rials. Four other analysts also say to
hold the lender’s stock, while one advises buying and three say
sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  