-- Aston Martin Owner Said to Cut Debt as Creditors Accept Deal
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-07-23T11:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/aston-martin-owner-said-to-cut-debt-as-creditors-accept-deal-1-.html
Investment Dar Co. will reduce
borrowings after creditors holding 30 percent of its debt signed
up to a new loan deal backed by assets including luxury carmaker
 Aston Martin , according to two people familiar with the matter.  The lenders to the Kuwaiti company agreed to a cash payment
totaling 5.7 percent of their debt and a portion of a new
Islamic loan equal to about 44 percent, the people said, asking
not to be named because the details aren’t public. While the new
deal represents a writedown of 50 percent it gives creditors
more security over the assets, according to one of the people.  Investment Dar defaulted on a $100 million Islamic bond in
2009, triggering a restructuring of around $5 billion of debt,
after the global credit crisis reduced the ability of some
Kuwaiti companies to repay loans. A 50 million Kuwaiti dinar
($176 million) repayment that was due on June 30 is currently
being processed, one of the people said.  The new voluntary settlement deal, offered to creditors in
May, removes them from Investment Dar’s court-approved
restructuring plan and gives them debt from a Jersey-registered
company which will control the assets. Nine assets will back the
new facility, with Investment Dar’s 34 percent stake in Aston
Martin the most significant, according to one of the people.  Asset Sales  Creditors not taking the offer retain their claims under
the approved restructuring plan, the company said in May.
Lenders who have taken the settlement will become 15 percent
shareholders in the company holding the assets, while the new
$437 million Islamic loan will be repaid through unscheduled
asset sales and has a tenor of up to seven years, one of the
people said.  A spokesman for Investment Dar declined to comment. The
Kuwaiti company was part of the group that bought Aston Martin
for 503 million pounds in 2007.  Investindustrial, a European private-equity fund, bought a
37.5 percent stake in Aston Martin in December through a capital
increase for 190 million euros ($254 million). The agreement
implied an enterprise value for the company of 940 million
euros, the companies said at the time.  Aston Martin, which makes  sports cars  featured in  James
Bond movies , has held talks with potential partners to jointly
develop high-end engines and electronic parts, Investindustrial
Chairman  Andrea Bonomi  told reporters in Milan in January.  The carmaker intends to invest 500 million pounds ($784
million) over the next four years to develop the brand, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editor responsible for
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  or
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  