-- Matolcsy Plots Hungary More Easing After a Year of Cuts
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-07-24T07:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/matolcsy-plots-hungary-more-easing-after-a-year-of-cuts.html
Hungarian central bank President
Gyorgy Matolcsy vowed to extend a yearlong cycle of interest-rate cuts, dashing speculation that monetary easing is drawing
to a close even as policy makers may slow its pace.  Hungary may start reducing its main rate in increments of
less than 25 basis points following quarter-point cuts in each
of the 12 last months, Matolcsy told reporters yesterday after
the bank lowered the  two-week deposit rate  to a record-low 4
percent. The easing cycle may bring the benchmark to between 3
percent and 3.5 percent, he said.  Policy makers are weighing how far to trim borrowing costs
to fortify a recovery from last year’s recession while
safeguarding financial stability and the attractiveness of local
assets as the U.S. Federal Reserve considers when to start
paring monetary stimulus. More rate reductions are “not just a
possibility, but a necessity,” according to Matolcsy.  “In and of itself, continuing rate cuts at a slower pace
in such a low interest-rate environment is sensible,” Adam Bakos, who helps oversee $2 billion in bonds at Aegon Hungary
Fund Management, said by phone. When policy makers “sense that
the wall is near, they start taking smaller steps.”  The forint weakened less than 0.1 percent to 295.98 per
euro by 9:56 a.m. in Budapest. It depreciated 0.6 percent
yesterday, the worst result among 24 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. It’s gained 1.8 percent in the past three
months, the best performance in that group. Yields on the
nation’s 10-year bonds dropped 9 basis points to 5.9 percent
today.  Rate Bets  Hungarian policy makers plan to continue rate cuts over the
“medium term” and not just for “one or two more” months,
possibly at a slower pace, central bank Vice President Adam Balog said on state radio station MR1 today. Matolcsy yesterday
said rate cuts may be in increments of 10 basis points or 0.1
percentage point.  Investors adjusted their expectations for easing. Nine-month forward-rate agreements, used to bet on interest rates,
fell 23 basis points to 3.59 percent yesterday, 60 points below
the Budapest Interbank Offered Rate. The FRAs traded as much as
67 points above the BUBOR last month as investors were
anticipating that the central bank may halt or reverse rate
cuts.  “Only a major setback in risk could derail the easing
cycle,” Pasquale Diana, a London-based economist at Morgan
Stanley, said in an e-mail today.  Hungary  may cut the main rate
to 3.5 percent by the fourth quarter, he said.  Forward Guidance  Bank of England Governor Mark Carney and European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi have both introduced so-called
forward guidance on the path of interest rates in the medium
term. Matolcsy, who the scrapped post-rate decision briefings
when he took over the central bank leadership in March,
yesterday said such tools are useful in keeping policy
predictable and conservative.  Central bankers across eastern Europe have been easing
monetary policy as the euro area’s debt crisis saps demand for
exports. Poland cut its main rate to a record 2.5 percent this
month and  Romania  lowered its benchmark to a record 5 percent on
July 1, the first reduction in more than a year.  Czech central bank Governor Miroslav Singer said yesterday
that he wouldn’t mind “significantly relaxed” monetary
conditions after the country’s benchmark rate has stayed at a
technical zero since November.  As monetary authorities in countries such as the U.S. and
the U.K. keep borrowing costs close to zero, Hungary’s central
bank has combined rate cuts since August with a 750 billion-forint ($3.4 billion) plan to boost lending to small and mid-sized companies.  Inflation, Growth  The bank lowered its  inflation (HUCPIYY)  forecast and raised its
economic-growth projection for this year on June 27, predicting
that consumer prices will advance by an average of 2.1 percent
and gross domestic product will increase 0.6 percent. Inflation
was 1.9 percent from a year earlier in June, holding close to a
39-year low recorded in April because of government-mandated
reductions in household energy prices.  “The benign inflation outlook and low growth should allow
the central bank to continue with rate cuts absent a significant
deterioration in investor appetite for Hungarian assets,” Nora Szentivanyi, a London-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday. She forecasts a year-end
main rate of 3.25 percent.  ‘Quite Bold’  Global concern that the Fed will pare monetary stimulus has
eased, sending the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index up 6.2 percent in
the past two weeks. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said July 10 that
asset purchases by the Fed may be reduced more quickly or
expanded as economic conditions warrant, reassuring investors he
wouldn’t cut off the stimulus if growth disappoints.  While Matolcsy said policy makers would continue to be
“cautious and conservative” in the future, his message was
actually “quite bold” given that investors were pricing in
interest rates staying at 4 percent, William Jackson, a London-based economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said by phone.  “We’re skeptical in terms of the 3 percent to 3.5 percent
target rate,” Jackson said. “The central bank may be walking
on thin ice there given that the interest-rate premium is
already at record lows.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  