-- Australia Mine Town Warehouse Rent 4 Times Cities, Colliers Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-07-23T05:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/australia-mine-town-warehouse-rent-4-times-cities-colliers-says.html
Tenants in Australian mining areas
are paying as much as four times the rent for industrial
properties compared with those in the country’s capital cities,
even as mining investment slows, Colliers International said.  Average rents for prime industrial properties in  Port
Hedland , a mining town in the remote Pilbara, the world’s
largest iron ore-exporting region, are as high as A$500 ($464)
per square meter (10.8 square feet), according to an e-mailed
release by broker Colliers. That compares with A$109 in Perth,
the capital of Western  Australia  state, which is located about
1,600 kilometers (994 miles) to the south, it said.  “The long-term demand from the developing world for
resources means that there are still tens of billions of
dollars’ worth of projects in the pipeline, which will keep the
resources industry sustainable,” Peter Evans, national director
for corporate solutions, said in the report.  While Australian miners have canceled or delayed A$150
billion of projects in the year to April 2013, the nation still
has A$267.6 billion of projects in progress, according to the
Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics. Resource industry
investment in Australia, the world’s biggest iron ore exporter,
is near its peak and is expected to remain at a high level for
about the next year, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia  said  in May.  Prime warehouse rents in Karratha, the biggest town in the
Pilbara, were as high as A$350, according to the Colliers data.
In Queensland state’s Gladstone, near more than $60 billion of
gas projects, they were as high as A$175, compared with A$112 in
the state capital  Brisbane , Colliers said. Rents in Sydney,
Australia’s most-populous city, were an average A$139 and they
were A$96 in  Melbourne , the nation’s second-biggest city, it
said.  The risks in these mining towns, which are dependent on
only one industry, are higher than in other cities with multiple
industries, Colliers said in the release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  