-- Baby Seal Cull in Namibia Hampered by Bans, IFAW Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   F e l i x   N j i n i
-- 2013-07-24T12:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/baby-seal-cull-in-namibia-hampered-by-bans-ifaw-says.html
Namibia  will struggle to meet its
quota of killing 80,000 baby seals this year as import bans in
the European Union, the U.S. and  Russia  cut demand for fur
products, the  International Fund for Animal Welfare  said.  “People are more aware of the cruelty involved and that’s
resulted in import bans around the world,” Sheryl Fink,
director of IFAW’s seal campaign, said in a telephone interview
from Toronto yesterday. “It’s not an industry that’s
commercially viable.”  The south-west African country, the second-biggest hunter
of seals behind  Canada , begins its annual seal cull this month
as it seeks to boost fish populations and profit from selling
pups’ fur and adult male penises, which are used as an
aphrodisiac in  Asia . Animal rights groups oppose the cull
because they say it’s inhumane and are demanding the practice be
ended.  Namibia will allow hunters to kill as many as 86,000 Cape
Fur seals this year, the same quota as in 2012, including 6,000
adult males, said Bernhard Esau, Namibia’s minister of fisheries
and marine resources, by telephone from Windhoek. Seal pups’ fur
is used to make boots and hats.  “If we don’t harvest the seals, this will create an
imbalance in our  marine ecosystem  and eventually it will impact
negatively on fish stocks and the entire fishing industry is
threatened,” Esau said. Fishing is Namibia’s second-biggest
export industry after mining, mainly diamonds and uranium,
according to the ministry’s  website .  Wooden Bats  Seals consume 700,000 metric tons of fish a year, more than
the country’s total fishing quota, Esau said. The allowable
catch for hake, which is exported to  Europe , and horse mackerel,
sold to countries in southern and western  Africa , is 140,000
tons and 350,000 tons respectively.  IFAW rejects that killing seals will boost fish stocks.
“There hasn’t been a single case where killing seals or whales
anywhere in the world has resulted in an increase in the prey
population,” Fink said. “There are more than two species. If
seals are killed then other species will step in and may eat
even more fish.”  The Namibian hunt is particularly cruel as it is targeted
at seals of between seven and 10 months old, who are still
nursing, Fink said. They are separated from their mothers and
clubbed to death with wooden bats as they run toward the sea,
she said.  “We have always appealed to animal rights organizations to
come to us during off seasons such that we conduct trials on
harvesting methods they think are more humane,” Esau said.  Cheap Pelts  In Namibia, the seals are usually culled at Atlas Bay and
Cape Cross, where  Portugal ’s Diego Cao, the first European to
land in Namibia, came onshore in 1486. As many as 210,000 seals
converge on Cape Cross, which lies on the Atlantic Ocean north
of the town of Swakopmund, at a time.  Seal hunts around the world show “repeated examples of
cruelty that cannot be alleviated by regulation,” Fink said.  About 69,000 harp seals were killed in Canada last year,
out of a quota of 400,000, according to the country’s  department
of fisheries and oceans . The price of a seal pelt has dropped to
between $25 and $30 from $120 in 2006 due to the import bans
around the world, making hunting less commercially attractive,
Fink said.  The number of seals killed in Namibia last year was
likewise “significantly lower” than the government’s quota,
Fink said. “This demonstrates the lack of markets and lack of
demand for seal products,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Felix Njini in Windhoek at 
 fnjini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  