-- Batista Seen Divesting Most Assets in Fire Sale, UBS Says
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-07-23T21:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/batista-expected-to-divest-most-assets-in-fire-sale-ubs-says.html
Eike Batista, the billionaire whose
wealth shrank by more than $30 billion, is expected to put most
assets on sale, triggering interest from buyers that may include
 Keppel Corp. (KEP)  and EON SE,  UBS AG (UBSN)  said.  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) , Batista’s port developer unit, and  OSX
Brasil SA (OSXB3) , his shipping venture, are the most interesting assets
for companies seeking fire-sale purchases to expand in  Brazil ,
UBS analysts including Lilyanna Yang said in a note today. While
the billionaire’s holding company, EBX Group Co., is expected to
find buyers for many of its assets, the price is likely to be
“lower than fair value,” they said.  “The group seems to us to be in such financial difficulty
that suggestions of a fire sale appear to make sense,” the UBS
analysts said in the note, titled “Is there anything left for
EBX investors?” “A seller under financial stress is very
rarely able to raise the fair value of its assets under fire-sale.”  Batista, the world’s eighth-richest person in March 2012,
lost more than $30 billion of his fortune after failure to meet
output and profit targets prompted a selloff of shares in his
Rio de Janeiro-based energy, commodities and logistics units.
The billionaire is now divesting assets, restructuring debt and
trimming projects as he faces investors’ complaints.  Keppel, Sembcorp  Singapore-based Keppel and  Sembcorp Marine Ltd. (SMM) , the
world’s two-biggest oil-rig makers, may be interested in bidding
for OSX’s shipyard in Rio state, according to UBS.  Germany ’s EON
may be eyeing natural gas blocks owned by Batista’s oil unit OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, it said.  EBX declined to comment on the UBS note when contacted by
Bloomberg News today. Josef Nelles, a spokesman at EON in
Dusseldorf, Germany, declined to comment on a possible interest
in OGX’s Parnaiba fields. E-mails sent after regular working
hours in Asia to Keppel and Sembcorp press officials were
unanswered.  LLX  jumped  8.7 percent to 1 real in Sao Paulo, its highest
closing level since June 27. OSX gained 11 percent and OGX
advanced 1.9 percent.  Petroliam’s Purchase  OGX, whose market value collapsed to the current 1.72
billion reais ($773 million) from as much as 75.2 billion reais
in 2010, isn’t expected to sell additional oil assets after
agreeing in May  to divest  40 percent of an offshore field to
 Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd., UBS said. Brazilian
companies and private equity groups are also buying candidates
for EBX assets, the analysts said.  “The caveat is that the timing is unclear, and might
include lengthy negotiations, which could involve banks and
creditors, as well as  Eike Batista  himself,” UBS said about
potential asset sales.  Batista, 56, said in an opinion piece in newspaper Valor
Economico on July 19 that auditors are partly to blame for
building up shareholder expectations of his companies. He also
said he regrets taking his companies public, adding that he will
pay back all his debts.  The tycoon this month  quit  as chairman of  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) ,
the power utility he founded and listed in 2007. Earlier this
year, EON boosted its stake in the company to 36 percent and
took over management. Batista’s MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA
mining company said on June 26 it’s in talks to sell a stake or
assets to companies including Glencore Xstrata Plc and Trafigura
Beheer BV.  MPX Stake  Interest in a stake in MPX will probably be limited to
potential buyers in Brazil and Batista is unlikely to sell his
remaining share of the business until holding company EBX’s debt
situation is resolved, UBS said in the report. A potential
acquisition of MMX units by Glencore matches the trading
company’s strategy of buying “good quality assets at distressed
prices,” UBS said.  Batista, whose ventures span from commodities to real
estate and a Chinese restaurant in Rio, is worth $3.4 billion
after losing 73 percent of his wealth in 2013, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  