-- Baucus Says Finance Panel to Consider Tax Code This Year
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-07-23T20:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/baucus-says-finance-panel-to-consider-tax-code-this-year.html
The Senate Finance Committee will
consider revamping the U.S. tax code this year, Chairman Max Baucus said today, proceeding without a bipartisan agreement on
whether the plan should raise additional revenue.  Baucus’s comments were his clearest yet about the timing of
committee action on a bill, which hasn’t been released, that
would lower tax rates and broaden the tax base. Baucus, a
Montana Democrat, said he intends for the proposal to be a
bipartisan one.  “We have to reform the code,” he told reporters today in
 Washington . “We’ve got to do our work.”  Baucus’s plan for committee action this year matches
efforts in the House of Representatives by Ways and Means
Committee Chairman Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican. Baucus and
Camp have started a national tour together in support of a tax
rewrite.  The effort faces a series of obstacles, including
entrenched interests defending their tax breaks and a partisan
divide over how much revenue should be raised from federal
taxes. Democrats insist on more revenue to help reduce future
budget deficits. Republicans reject that idea and say the
deficit should be reduced only through spending cuts.  Consensus Needed  Rob Leonard, a tax lobbyist at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer &
Feld LLP in Washington, said Baucus must lay out a complete
proposal that best reflects his sense of where he can find
consensus on the Finance Committee, which has 13 Democrats and
11 Republicans.  “A chairman usually does not -- and in this case won’t --
go into a room with a lot of surprises,” said Leonard, a former
House Democratic staff member whose clients include United
Technologies Corp. and the Private Equity Growth Capital
Council.  “I certainly hope that he can get there,” Senator Charles Schumer, a  New York  Democrat on the Finance panel, said of the
prospects for committee action. “There are a lot of questions
that have to be answered, above all, revenues.”  Baucus, who supports raising additional revenue through a
tax rewrite, said when asked about a target figure: “We’ll talk
that through in the committee.”  Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky  said a
revamped tax code would be “good for the country,” while he
rejected Democrats’ proposal for additional revenue.  ‘No Interest’  “I have no interest in re-opening the subject of
additional taxes,” McConnell said.  Baucus and Orrin Hatch of  Utah , the top Republican on the
Finance Committee, have asked senators to submit ideas for tax
changes by July 26. They said they are starting with a clean
slate and are seeking justification for restoring any tax
breaks.  Baucus has his own deadline. He isn’t running for re-election and will leave Congress Jan. 3, 2015.  Senator Pat Roberts, a Kansas Republican, said the Finance
panel should start with miscellaneous expiring provisions and
work from there as lawmakers navigate “serious” differences on
policy.  “We just have to sit down and start to work, so we’ll
see,” Roberts said. “It’s a work in progress, but it’s a
serious work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  