-- Biggest Banks Face Fed Restoring Barriers in Commodities
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-07-23T15:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/biggest-banks-face-fed-restoring-barriers-in-commodities-review.html
(Corrects Omarova’s affiliation in 20th paragraph.)  The  Federal Reserve ’s review of its
decision to let banks store, transport and trade raw materials
signals a potential rebuilding of the wall between banking and
commerce that legislation and rulemaking have eroded.  The central bank said July 19 that it’s reviewing a decade-old decision that physical commodities are “complementary” to
banking, allowing lenders such as  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  to operate in both industries.  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley may be less at risk from the review as
some businesses owned before the firms became bank holding
companies in 2008 are grandfathered.  The move into physical commodities exposed the biggest
banks to additional risks and allegations of price manipulation,
creating potential legal liabilities and threatening to damage
their reputations. The shift also weakened the barrier between
government-insured banks and other commerce established by the
1956 Bank Holding Company Act.  “What the Fed has to do, what they are doing, is setting
boundaries where the banks really will pull back into what their
primary business is,” said  Marty Mosby , an analyst at
Guggenheim Securities LLC in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . Regulators are
“trying to re-envision how they should draw these boundaries.
They got kind of blurred.”  The Senate Banking Committee’s Subcommittee on Financial
Institutions and Consumer Protection, led by Ohio Democrat
 Sherrod Brown , is holding a hearing today on banks’ investments
in physical commodities assets.  Continue Dealing  The 1999 Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act added exemptions for
certain commodities units that previously weren’t allowed under
the 1956 holding company law. One was for businesses that the
Fed could determine were complementary or incidental to the
bank’s financial activities. The first of those decisions came
in 2003, when the Fed allowed Citigroup to continue dealing in
physical commodities.  The other exception was for firms that became banks after
1999 and had physical commodities businesses that predated Sept.
30, 1997. That rule is relevant because Goldman Sachs and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  converted to bank holding companies amid the 2008
financial crisis. The Fed gave them five years to divest
businesses that didn’t comply with the Bank Holding Company Act.  Morgan Stanley said in its 2012 annual report that it was
in talks with the Fed over whether the company’s physical
commodities businesses would be given a grandfather exemption or
if it would have to sell any units by the end of the five-year
grace period. The New York-based firm said it didn’t expect the
regulator to force it to make any sales that would have a
material effect. Goldman Sachs faces the same deadline if any of
its investments are deemed noncompliant.  ‘Radical Departure’  The exceptions granted by Gramm-Leach-Bliley represent
“incremental expansions” of banking powers, rather than a
“radical departure” from previous rules, Randall Guynn, head
of the financial institutions group at law firm Davis Polk &
Wardwell LLP, said in written testimony prepared for today’s
hearing.  “There has been a close relationship between banking and
physical commodities since the dawn of history,” wrote Guynn,
who has advised the six largest U.S. banks about changes to
financial regulations. “I am not aware of any evidence that
their activities undermined the safety or soundness of the U.S.
financial system.”  Grids, Vaults  In addition to the two exemptions, banks also can invest in
commodities businesses through a merchant-banking exception.
Lenders typically must sell such investments within 10 years,
Guynn wrote.  Physical commodities businesses generated $1 billion in
revenue in 2012 for the 10 largest global investment banks,
according to data from industry analytics firm Coalition Ltd.
That was down from $1.47 billion in 2011 and represented one-sixth of overall commodities revenue.  Storage and transportation of oil, such as tanker
businesses, accounted for more than half of the physical revenue
each of the past two years, said  George Kuznetsov , head of
research for Coalition. Banks also generated revenue from
electricity and natural gas production facilities, power grids,
warehouses for storing base metals and vaults to house precious
metals, he said.  Metal Warehousing  Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan, both based in New York, own
base metal warehousing companies. In 2010, Goldman Sachs
acquired Romulus, Michigan-based Metro International Trade
Services LLC and JPMorgan bought Liverpool, England-based Henry
Bath & Son Ltd. as part of its purchase of assets from RBS
Sempra Commodities LLP.  JPMorgan also received oil and metal investments and
European power and gas assets in that acquisition. The bank
inherited U.S. electricity sales arrangements when it bought
failing investment bank Bear Stearns Cos. It also runs a
precious metals vault unit.  JPMorgan, whose commodity business is run by Blythe Masters, 44, is close to a settlement with the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission  over allegations that the bank manipulated
electricity prices in California and the U.S. Midwest, the Wall
Street Journal reported.  Morgan Stanley, whose commodities business is run by  Simon Greenshields  and Colin Bryce, both 57, owns electricity-generating facilities in the U.S. and Europe and markets
electric power in the U.S. It also owns Denver-based
TransMontaigne Inc., a petroleum and chemical transportation and
storage company, and Heidmar Inc., based in Norwalk,
Connecticut, which manages more than 100  oil tankers , according
to its website.  Coal Mines  The banks don’t break out revenue and profit from the
commodities units. Goldman Sachs’s 2012 annual report doesn’t
show that it owns coal mines in Colombia, a stake in the
railroad that transports the coal to port and part of an oil
field off the coast of Angola.  Morgan Stanley said in its annual report that the bank’s
commodities businesses expose it to “significant costs and
liabilities” that may come from regulation or catastrophic
events. Goldman Sachs cited risks from  climate change  to
terrorist attacks on its physical commodities business.  “Existing public disclosure is woefully inadequate to
understand and evaluate the nature and scope of U.S. banking
organizations’ physical commodities trading and assets,”  Saule
T. Omarova , a law professor at the University of  North Carolina 
at  Chapel Hill , said in testimony prepared for today’s hearing.
“When it comes to energy and other key commodities, what is
hidden from the public view may be highly consequential.”  Unfair Advantage  Banks’ ability to compete in nonfinancial businesses while
benefiting from the government’s safety net on deposits gives
them an unfair advantage,  Josh Rosner , a managing director at
Graham Fisher & Co., said in written testimony.  “There’s a subsidy that spreads out from anything having
to do with the protection of too big to fail and deposit-taking
in particular,” Harvey Rosenblum, executive vice president of
the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said in an interview. “It’s
a continued abuse of the federal safety net to the advantage of
the large financial companies and to the disadvantage of Main
Street America.”  Current rules prevent banks from passing on funding
advantages of  deposit insurance  to nonbank affiliates, wrote
Guynn, the Davis Polk lawyer.  Some banks have cut back in commodities amid higher capital
rules and pressure to reduce costs to boost profitability,
Coalition’s Kuznetsov said.  ‘Regulatory Pressure’  “We definitely see a reduction of certain banks’ presence
within commodities,” Kuznetsov said. “With physical
commodities, it’s very difficult to find any synergies with the
rest of the franchise other than with commodities itself. Plus,
on top of that, you have regulatory pressure.”  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 55,
said in an interview last week that he’s open to different
structures in the commodities business. Morgan Stanley held
talks last year with Qatar’s sovereign-wealth fund about selling
a stake in the business.  Goldman Sachs, whose top three executives trace their roots
to commodities trading division J. Aron, has said it plans to
remain active in the industry. Commodities trading at Goldman
Sachs is led by Gregory A. Agran in New York and Magid N. Shenouda in London.  “We strongly believe that being in the commodities
business is important to our clients,” Goldman Sachs President
 Gary Cohn , 52, a former silver trader, said in May. “Many more
of our clients today have commodity exposure than they ever had
before, or they ever realized they had.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  