-- Bitcoin Ponzi Scheme Alleged by SEC in Lawsuit Against Texas Man
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-07-23T17:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/bitcoin-ponzi-scheme-alleged-by-sec-in-lawsuit-against-texas-man.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued a  Texas  man over claims he operated a  Ponzi
scheme  involving Bitcoin, the virtual currency that has recently
attracted investors including Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss.  Trendon T. Shavers raised at least 700,000 Bitcoin starting
no later than September 2011 through his firm Bitcoin Savings
and Trust and improperly used currency from new investors to
cover investor withdrawals, the SEC said in a complaint filed
today in federal court in Texas.  Shavers falsely promised investors as much as 7 percent
interest weekly on purported trades, including selling the
online currency to individuals who wished to buy it “off the
radar,” quickly or in large quantities, the SEC said. Shavers
also misappropriated investors’ funds for his personal use,
according to the complaint.  “Fraudsters are not beyond the reach of the SEC just
because they use Bitcoin or another virtual currency to mislead
investors and violate the federal securities laws,” Andrew Calamari, director of the SEC’s  New York  office, said in a
statement. “Shavers preyed on investors in an online forum by
claiming his investments carried no risk and huge profits for
them while his true intentions were rooted in nothing more than
personal greed.”  The SEC said the 700,000 Bitcoin that Shavers raised
amounted to more than $4.5 million, based on the average price
of Bitcoin in 2011 and 2012 when the investments were offered
and sold. Today, the value of 700,000 Bitcoin exceeds $60
million, the SEC said.  Bitcoin is a virtual currency created four years ago that
can be used to buy and sell a broad array of items, from
electronics to illegal narcotics. The Winkelvoss brothers, who
became well-known for their clashes with  Mark Zuckerberg  over
the origination of  Facebook Inc. (FB) , offered 1 million shares in a
trust that would track the price of Bitcoins, according to a
filing with the SEC.  No attorney was listed by the SEC. A phone call to a number
listed to Shavers wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  