-- BofA, Barclays Sued by Houston For Libor Manipulation
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-07-23T18:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/bofa-barclays-sued-by-houston-for-libor-manipulation.html
Bank of America Corp. ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are among a group of banks sued by the city
of Houston for financial damages caused by the alleged
manipulation of the London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor.  Houston, the fourth-largest U.S. city, is one of the
biggest to sue on rate-fixing allegations. The Texas city seeks
unspecified damages for both receiving artificially low interest
and paying artificially high rates on municipal investments
dating back six years, according to a complaint filed today in
federal court in Houston.  “The complaint specifically notes three examples of
transactions in which the Libor manipulation was detrimental to
the City of Houston,” Richard Mithoff, Houston’s lawyer, said
in an e-mailed statement. “Damages to the city resulting from
this global interest rate manipulation could be substantial.”  Global authorities have been investigating claims that more
than a dozen banks altered submissions used to set benchmarks
such as Libor to profit from bets on interest-rate derivatives
or to make the lenders’ finances appear healthier.  Barclays, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and UBS AG have
settled regulators’ claims in the probe. A group of lawsuits
against banks over manipulation of rates have been consolidated
in federal court in  Manhattan . In March, U.S. District Judge
Naomi Buchwald dismissed antitrust claims by plaintiffs who said
banks conspired to set Libor at artificial levels. She allowed
some commodities-manipulations claims to proceed.  Cities  Besides Houston, other U.S. municipalities that have sued
include Baltimore and San Diego County.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos,  a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Scott Silvestri ,
a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America,
didn’t immediately return a call or e-mail. A call and e-mail
seeking comment from London-based Barclays weren’t immediately
returned.  Houston alleged that other members of the “global
conspiracy to manipulate LIBOR” include Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Royal Bank of
Canada.  The case is City of Houston v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , et
al, 13-cv-02149, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
David McLaughlin in  New York  at
or  dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  