-- Brazil’s Swap Rates Fall as Consumer Prices Drop; Real Advances
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-07-23T21:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/brazil-s-swap-rates-fall-as-consumer-prices-drop-real-advances.html
Brazil ’s swap rates declined to a
six-week low as reports showed consumer prices dropped and
 consumer confidence  waned, spurring speculation that the central
bank’s increases in borrowing costs will be limited.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 fell seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 9.28 percent, the
closing level since June 7. The real appreciated 0.9 percent to
2.2139 per dollar after gaining 0.6 percent yesterday, when the
central bank intervened to support the currency by selling $995
million in foreign-exchange swap contracts.  Consumer prices in Brazil’s seven biggest cities declined
0.11 percent in the month through July 22, the Getulio Vargas
Foundation reported today. The median forecast of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.02 percent drop. Food fell
0.42 percent while transportation slid 0.80 percent.  “Price indexes are being favored by a drop in food and
transportation prices, seasonal factors that are guaranteeing
this retreat,” Mauricio Nakahodo, a researcher at Bank of Tokyo
Mitsubishi, said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “These indicators
assure there will be a drop in swap rates.”  The Vargas foundation also reported today that its index of
consumer confidence declined for a third consecutive month in
July, falling to 108.3 from 112.9.  The real rallied the most among major Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg on export prospects.  China ,
Brazil’s biggest trading partner, is pledging economic growth of
at least 7 percent this year and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  quelled concern in congressional testimony last week
that a reduction of U.S. monetary stimulus was imminent.  ‘More Positive’  “The news out of China is more positive,” Deives Ribeiro,
the head of  currency trading  at Fair Corretora de Cambio e
Valores, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “The government there
wants to sustain growth. And in the U.S., there is still
economic stimulus.”  The Fed will trim in September its monthly bond buying to
$65 billion from the current pace of $85 billion, according to
half of economists in a July 18-22 survey by Bloomberg, up from
44 percent in last month’s poll.  Brazil’s policy makers raised the target lending rate by a
half-percentage point on July 10 to 8.50 percent, the third
increase this year. The central bank said in minutes of the
meeting that it is appropriate to maintain the pace of increases
in borrowing costs to curb inflation.  The government is cutting spending for the second time in
two months to help meet its fiscal target as it forecasts slower
growth this year in  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  Belt Tightening  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said yesterday that the
government is reducing expenditures by 10 billion reais and
lowering this year’s economic growth forecast to 3 percent from
3.5 percent. The government will meet its primary budget surplus
target, which excludes interest payments, of 2.3 percent of
gross domestic product this year without reducing investments,
according to Mantega.  First-quarter GDP growth unexpectedly slowed to 0.55
percent from the previous three-month period, trailing analysts’
forecasts for a fifth straight quarter. GDP climbed 0.9 percent
last year, the worst performance since the 2009 recession.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  