-- Brazil Lowers Wind-Energy Prices by 20 Percent in August Auction
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-07-23T16:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/brazil-lowers-wind-energy-prices-by-20-percent-in-august-auction.html
The Brazilian government lowered the
maximum price developers may sell energy by 20 percent in next
month’s auction for new wind farms.  Developers that win contracts in the so-called reserve
energy auction won’t be allowed to charge more than 117 reais
($52.70) a megawatt-hour, Brasilia-based electricity regulator
Agencia Nacional de Energia Eletrica, known as Aneel, said today
on its  website . A similar event in 2011, which included biomass
plants, had a top  price  of 146 reais, according to the national
energy agency Empresa de Pesquisa Energetica  Developers expected a maximum price of at least 125 reais
after the government required turbine makers to source more of
their parts locally, Elbia Melo, president of the Sao Paulo-based trade group Associacao Brasileira de Energia Eolica, said
today in a telephone interview. Domestic content rules are
boosting project costs and making power more expensive.  “The market was hoping for a higher price,” she said.
“We’ll only be able to know how sensible this ceiling price is
from the results of the auction.”  High inflation and the declining real makes it more
expensive for turbine makers to import components, which also
led to expectations for a higher ceiling price, Melo said.  In  Brazil ’s power auctions, the government sets a ceiling
rate and developers submit bids for the prices at which they are
willing to provide power. The lowest offers win contracts to
sell electricity.  The auction is scheduled for Aug. 23 and winning companies
must complete their projects by September 2015, Aneel said.  Developers of fossil-fuel  power plants , biomass facilities
and hydroelectric dams may sell power for as much as 140 reais a
megawatt hour in another auction set for Aug. 29. Companies
bidding to build the 400-megawatt Sinop hydro project in the
same event must sell electricity for no more than 118 reais.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  