-- Broadcom Tumbles as Sales Forecast Trails Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-07-24T20:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/broadcom-predicts-sales-that-may-fall-short-of-estimates.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , a maker of chips
that connect mobile devices to the Internet, fell the most in
more than five years after issuing a revenue forecast that
trailed analysts’ estimates amid slowing smartphone sales.  The shares tumbled 15 percent to $27.01 at the close in  New
York , the biggest drop since October 2007. The stock has dropped
19 percent this year, compared with a 24 percent gain for the
Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.  Third-quarter sales will be $2.05 billion to $2.2 billion,
the  Irvine , California-based company said in a statement
yesterday. Analysts had projected $2.25 billion, according to
the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Broadcom’s products enable wireless connectivity in
products such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad, and some of
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy line of mobile devices.
Broadcom’s forecast and a lack of chips that enable the latest
cellular technology are causing concern that its largest
business will struggle to deliver growth until next year,
according to Craig Ellis, a San Francisco-based analyst at B
Riley & Co.  “The modest growth in the outlook is well below what
people would have expected,” Ellis, who  recommends  buying the
stock, said. “It’s disappointing that there’s not consistent
growth for them until the second half of next year.”  Chief Executive Officer Scott McGregor is also moving
Broadcom into the market for baseband chips used to connect
phones to cellular networks, an area dominated by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)   Mobile Chips  Broadcom has won Samsung as a customer for older types of
technology, and is in a race with companies such as  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
to challenge Qualcomm in the market for the latest high-speed
connections known as long term evolution, or LTE.  “I think we need LTE to drive significant growth going
forward,” McGregor told analysts on yesterday’s conference
call. “We don’t see a material revenue event in the first
half.”  Broadcom’s mobile and wireless business unit had $967
million of sales in the second quarter, down 3 percent from the
preceding period, missing the company’s forecast for growth.  “Everybody, the company, and certainly me, were surprised
by this pretty dramatic fall off,” said Ruben Roy, an analyst
for Mizuho Securities USA Inc. He recommends buying the stock.  Smartphone makers including Samsung and  HTC Corp. (2498)  have
reported earnings that missed estimates, causing concern that
demand is slowing.  Product Shift  Broadcom’s stock has declined amid speculation that
customers such as Apple and Samsung will either shift to
competing products from Qualcomm, or start making their own
connectivity chips. The two companies provide Broadcom with more
than 30 percent of its revenue, according to  supply-chain data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  The second-quarter  net  loss was $251 million, or 43 cents a
share, compared with a profit a year earlier. Sales increased 6
percent to $2.09 billion. Profit, excluding an acquisition-related charge, was 70 cents. That compares with analysts’
projections for 69 cents on revenue of $2.11 billion.  Broadcom is also the largest maker of chips that run
television set-top boxes supplied by satellite and cable TV
service providers and has a division that sells chips for
wireless phone network equipment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  