-- Brookfield Asset Raises $4.4 Billion to Buy Real Estate
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-07-23T21:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/brookfield-asset-raises-4-4-billion-to-buy-real-estate.html
Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A) ,
Canada’s biggest manager of alternative assets, said it raised
$4.4 billion to buy commercial real estate around the world,
surpassing its $3.5 billion goal.  The Brookfield Strategic Real Estate Partners fund will
make “opportunistic” investments in commercial property, the
company said today in a statement. The Toronto-based company’s
 Brookfield Property Partners LP (BPY-U)  unit put about $1.3 billion to
the fund as its largest investor.  The fund will buy assets mainly in North America, Europe,
Brazil and  Australia , the company said. It plans to purchase
property directly and invest in real estate companies and
distressed loans and securities with the aim of gaining control
or influence as part of turnarounds or recapitalizations.  The fund already has committed about $1.1 billion to
investments in Thakral Holdings Group, an Australian office and
hotel owner; Verde Realty, a U.S. industrial real estate
company; and EZW Gazeley Ltd., an owner of European logistics
facilities.  The new property fund is part of about $14 billion of
capital pledges to Brookfield funds in the past year. They
include the $6.2 billion Brookfield Infrastructure Fund, the
$2.1 billion Brookfield Investment Management fund, and funds to
buy office buildings in Los Angeles and assets such as timber.  Brookfield Asset has more than $175 billion of assets under
management, including hydroelectric dams and infrastructure. Its
Bermuda-based Brookfield Property unit has stakes in more than
300 office and retail properties with about 250 million square
feet (23 million square meters), plus apartment, industrial and
development holdings.  Brookfield Property’s holdings include  Brookfield Office
Properties Inc. (BPO) , owner of the Brookfield Place office complex in
lower  Manhattan . The company also holds about 22 percent of
 General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the No. 2 U.S. shopping mall
landlord.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  