-- Canada Dollar Reaches 1-Month High as Retail Sales Top Forecast
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-07-23T21:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/canadian-dollar-fluctuates-as-crude-oil-declines-for-second-day.html
Canada ’s dollar rallied to a one-month high after a report showed retail sales in May increased
at the fastest pace in three years, fueling speculation the
economy may be improving.  The currency gained versus a majority of its 16 most-traded
peers as sales jumped 1.9 percent, almost double the highest
projection in a Bloomberg survey of 20 economists, which had a
median forecast of 0.4 percent. Reports last week showed
wholesale sales rose 2.3 percent, the biggest increase in more
than two years, while manufacturing sales climbed 0.7 percent.  “It fits along the lines of the wholesale and
manufacturing sales numbers that we saw in the last week and a
half or so,” said Greg T. Moore, a currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank. “In the next few weeks, through tame
summer trading, we could see more of a grind higher for the
Canadian dollar on some of these positive Canadian data
trends.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, increased 0.5 percent to C$1.0287
per  U.S. dollar  in Toronto as of 5 p.m. in Toronto, reaching the
strongest level since June 20. One loonie buys 97.21 U.S. cents.  Technical Levels  The currency traded stronger than its 50-day moving average
of C$1.0356 for a second day. Breaching moving averages signal
to some traders a move has momentum to continue.  “We’re still looking for more U.S. dollar strength rather
than Canadian dollar strength,” said  David Watt , chief
economist at HSBC Holding Plc in Toronto. “That 100-day moving
average at C$1.028 is going to be an interesting test.”  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart was at 6.78 percent, the
lowest level since May 13. Implied volatility, which traders
quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell, pushing yields up
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.41. The 1.5
percent security maturing in June 2023 lost 43 cents to C$92.11.  The  Bank of Canada  has kept its key lending rate at 1
percent since September 2010. Governor Stephen Poloz inserted a
line in his monetary-policy report released July 17 saying near-record low  interest rates  are appropriate “as long as” there
is significant economic slack in the economy, low inflation and
households continue to repair their balance sheets.  The nation will auction C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion) of
notes due November 2015 tomorrow.  Consumer Spending  Retail Sales increased in May to a record C$40.4 billion
($39.1 billion),  Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa. The gain in
retail sales follows other signs of resilience in  consumer
spending  such as stronger  home construction , which counter
warnings by policy makers about the threat posed by record
 household debt  loads.  A report last week showed existing-home sales in Canada
rose 3.3 percent in June, the fourth straight increase.  “Coming into the spring, worries about housing in Canada
were on the front pages,” said Adam Button, a currency analyst
at forexlive.com in  Montreal . “Now, it seems like consumers are
feeling much better.”  The loonie has risen 0.7 percent in the past month against
nine developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The yen fell 3.5 percent and the
U.S. dollar is down 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Marshall in  New York  at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  