-- Canada May Retail Sales Gain Fastest in 3 Years on Autos
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-07-23T13:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/canada-retail-sales-gain-fastest-in-three-years-in-may-on-autos.html
Canadian  retail sales  rose at the
fastest pace in three years in May on gains in almost every
category, led by automobiles.  Sales increased 1.9 percent to a record C$40.4 billion
($39.1 billion), Statistics  Canada  said today in Ottawa. The
gain was almost double the highest forecast in a Bloomberg
 survey  of 20 economists, which had a median forecast of 0.4
percent.  The gain in retail sales follows other signs of resilience
in consumer spending such as stronger home construction, which
counter warnings by policy makers about the threat posed by
record household debt loads. Bank of Canada Governor Stephen
Poloz said last week there are signs of a “constructive
evolution” in household finances and has said the expansion
must rotate to one led by exports and business investment.  Canada’s second-quarter gross domestic product growth will
probably feature “a heavy pull by consumers after a dull first
quarter,” said  Jimmy Jean , a strategist in the fixed-income
group at Desjardins Capital Markets in  Montreal . The economy
probably grew at 2.2 percent annualized second quarter pace,
faster than the Bank of Canada’s 1 percent prediction, even with
flooding in  Alberta  slowing output, he said.  The Canadian dollar increased 0.2 percent to C$1.0310 per
U.S. dollar in Toronto as of 9:26 a.m. in Toronto, after earlier
reaching C$1.0299, the strongest since June 20. One loonie buys
96.99 U.S. cents.  Sales advanced in nine of 11 categories accounting for 94
percent of total receipts. Motor vehicle and parts sales, the
largest category, rose 4.3 percent to C$9.51 billion, the
fastest gain in almost two years.  Ex-auto Gains  Purchases  excluding  the motor vehicle and parts category
gained 1.2 percent, exceeding the 0.4 percent increase
economists had forecast.  The later-than-usual start of National Hockey League
playoffs helped boost beer, wine and liquor store sales by 2.2
percent in May, while a late start to spring raised sales at
garden equipment and building supply stores by 3.7 percent.  The volume of sales also rose 1.9 percent. That measure
excludes the effects of price changes and more closely reflects
the industry’s contribution to economic growth.  Sales in May were 3.6 percent higher than  a year earlier ,
Statistics Canada said.  Household consumption probably grew at a 2 percent
annualized pace in the second quarter, ahead of the 1.6 percent
pace of total output growth, according to a Bloomberg economist
survey taken July 5 to July 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  