-- Canada Tribunal Dismisses Visa, MasterCard Store-Fee Case
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-07-23T19:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/canada-competition-tribunal-dismisses-credit-card-case.html
Canada’s Competition Tribunal
dismissed a case against  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and  Visa Inc. (V)  that
would have allowed merchants to reject some high-fee credit
cards or impose surcharges on customers who use them.  The tribunal said the case brought by Canada’s competition
watchdog was dismissed without costs in a  ruling  from Ottawa
today. Some of the reasons for the decision are confidential,
the tribunal said.  The ruling covers credit-card payments worth C$240 billion
($233 billion) and annual fees of C$5 billion, 90 percent of
which involve MasterCard and Visa cards distributed by Canadian
banks, according to tribunal  documents . The Commissioner of
Competition sought an order that would have allowed merchants to
refuse, discourage or impose surcharges on the use of premium
cards that impose higher fees on sellers.  “The proper solution to the concerns raised by the
Commissioner is a regulatory framework,” the tribunal’s panel
of three members said in one-page summary of the decision.
Arguments made had little basis in “legislative history,” the
tribunal said in the summary.  The Competition Bureau is reviewing the Tribunal’s decision
to determine how to proceed, John Pecman, competition
commissioner, said in a press release today. He said Canadian
retailers pay among the highest card fees in the world.  ‘Adverse Effect’  “The decision recognized that this case is one that should
have been brought before the Tribunal and found that Visa and
MasterCard’s conduct had an adverse effect on competition,”
Pecman said in the statement.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he’ll be monitoring any
potential appeal and will call a special meeting of a government
committee on payments issues.  “As job creators and drivers of economic growth, Canada’s
small business owners and entrepreneurs - along with consumers -
deserve clear information and fair and transparent rules on the
type of payment system they use,” Flaherty said in a statement
today.  The Canadian Federation of  Independent Business  said it was
disappointed by the decision.  “This isn’t the outcome we were hoping to see, but
entrepreneurs can rest assured that CFIB isn’t going away,” Dan
Kelly, president of the group, said in a  release . “We’re going
to keep fighting against unfair practices by the credit card
giants.”  First Date  “Many merchants understand the value that’s delivered
because of this credit card acceptance,” and customers benefit
as well, Betty K. DeVita, president of MasterCard  Canada , said
in a telephone interview. “Imagine you’re on a first date,
you’re ready to pull out a card and they aren’t accepting that
card.”  Fees for using credit cards may continue to rise for
retailers, said Garth Whyte, president of the Canadian
Restaurant and Foodservices Association.  “Somebody has to corral this Wild West credit-card
world,” he said in a telephone interview. “The credit card
companies are making more than our members on a one hundred
dollar bill.” The group has more than 30,000 members and the
industry employs 1.1 million people, he said.  Card revenue represents 3.8 percent of total revenue for
the six largest Canadian banks, according to Andre-Philippe Hardy, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto. Toronto-Dominion Bank, the second-largest lender in the country, made
C$1 billion in card service revenue in 2012, or 4.5 percent of
total revenue, according to Hardy.  U.S. Case  “While positive for banks, we do not expect a material
impact on bank stocks as we do not believe the case was a major
source of concern for investors,” he said in a note to clients
following the decision being released.  The ruling follows Visa’s and MasterCard.’s $7.25 billion
settlement of an antitrust suit in the U.S. over merchant credit
card fees under which the companies agreed to lift their own
restrictions against surcharges.  The settlement in that case, said to be the largest-ever in
a U.S. antitrust case, is opposed by dozens of large retailers,
which say it isn’t big enough and allows the card companies to
continue to fix fees.  The case is CT-2010-010, The Commissioner of Competition v.
Visa Canada Corporation and MasterCard International
Incorporated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  