-- Canadian Stocks Fall as Industrial, Financial Stocks Retreat
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-07-23T20:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/canadian-stocks-fluctuate-as-oil-producers-gain-while-gold-drops.html
Canadian  stocks  fell after climbing
to a four-month high yesterday, as a decline among industrials
and financial stocks overshadowed gains for copper producers.  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  lost 3.2 percent after the
company discussed possible weakness in shipping in the second
half of the year. Aimia Inc., a credit card loyalty program
manager, jumped 3.8 percent after agreeing to buy a technology
provider to U.S. retailers. Teck Resources Ltd. and First
Quantum Minerals Ltd. gained at least 1.6 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  lost 13 points,
or 0.1 percent, to 12,745.38 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The drop
snapped a four-day rally and left the gauge up 2.5 percent for
the year. Trading volume was in line with the 30-day average at
this time of day.  “For  Canada , today is a bit of a pause” after four days
of gains, said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research with
MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto. The firm
manages about C$4 billion ($3.89 billion). “There’s a natural
inclination to look for laggards when we’re at highs and the
whole Canadian market has lagged this year.”  Six of 10  industries  in the S&P/TSX retreated. Financial
stocks dropped 0.4 percent as a group.  National Bank of Canada 
slid 1.4 percent to C$77.96, snapping a streak of eight straight
advances. Bank of  Nova Scotia  dropped 1 percent to C$58.35.  Railroad Stocks  Industrial shares slid the most, declining 1.5 percent.
 Canadian National  slumped 3.2 percent to C$101.69. Luc Jobin,
the company’s chief financial officer, said on a conference call
with analysts yesterday the railroad may face a “challenging”
second half due to weakness in shipping bulk products such as
grain. Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. fell 1.8 percent to
$130.18.  Canada’s Transport Department also said today it is setting
new emergency requirements for railway companies, including
having at least two employees operating shipments of dangerous
goods and stronger policies about setting brakes, after a deadly
train derailment and explosion in  Quebec  on July 6 killed about
50 and destroyed much of downtown Lac-Megantic.  Health-care stocks declined 0.7 percent, led by a 0.8
percent drop at Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. The
drugmaker was sued by a pension fund over allegations its
Medicis unit conspired to preserve a monopoly on its acne drug
Solodyn.  AlarmForce Industries Inc. (AF) , a home security system
provider, rose 2 percent to C$10, erasing earlier losses, after
firing President and Chief Executive Officer Joel Matlin. The
company said Matlin will continue as a director. Anthony
Pizzonia, the chief financial officer, will serve as the interim
CEO while AlarmForce searches for a replacement.  Aimia, which manages customer loyalty programs including
the Aeroplan credit-card service, jumped 3.8 percent to C$15.68.
The company agreed to buy Smart Button, a technology provider
for national retailers in the U.S., for about $18 million.  Telus Corp. advanced 0.6 percent to C$30.83 after the
wireless carrier increased the number of shares it may purchase
in a buyback to 31.9 million common shares from 15 million
shares, or about 4.9 percent of outstanding stock as of May 17.  Copper miners Teck Resources gained 1.6 percent to C$24.35
and First Quantum Minerals rallied 6.6 percent to C$17.37 as the
metal’s price rose for a fourth day ahead of a preliminary
report on manufacturing in  China  tomorrow.  Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  said the slowest economic growth
policy makers will tolerate is 7 percent, Beijing News reported
today. China, Canada’s second-largest trading partner, is the
world’s largest consumer of raw materials. Its economy is
forecast to grow 7.6 percent in 2013 and 2014, according to the
median estimate from a Bloomberg survey of economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  