-- Canadian Natural to Buy Barrick Energy Assets for $217 Million
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-07-23T22:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/canadian-natural-to-buy-barrick-energy-assets-for-217-million.html
Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the
nation’s third largest oil and gas producer by market value,
will buy energy assets from  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  for about C$223
million ($217 million) to acquire production in  Alberta .  Canadian Natural will pay C$173 million and a royalty
valued at about C$50 million, Toronto-based Barrick said today
in a statement.  Barrick, the world’s biggest gold producer, also will sell
some energy assets to Venturion Oil Ltd. for about C$59 million
and to  Whitecap Resources Inc. (WCP)  for about C$174 million, the
mining company said. Whitecap, based in Calgary, said June 27 it
agreed to buy Alberta energy assets from Barrick for C$173.6
million.  The deals are valued at a combined C$455 million, Barrick
said. It expects to recognize a loss of about $500 million in
the second quarter as a result of the sales, which are expected
to close by the end of this month.  Barrick said in January it started a process to sell its
oil and gas unit, which had  revenue  of $153 million last year,
or 1.1 percent of the company’s total sales, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky is
reviewing growth plans and seeking to offload assets as gold
heads for its first annual drop since 2000.  “A successful sale of Barrick Energy is a necessary
refocusing of the company’s portfolio away from non-gold and
non-core assets,”  Greg Barnes , a Toronto-based analyst at TD
Securities Inc., said in a note today. The price is “slightly”
below expectations, he said.  Diminished Contributions  Barrick’s energy unit, originally known as Cadence Energy
Inc., was acquired for C$410 million in 2008. Barrick hedges
fuel costs through Barrick Energy’s production and the net
contribution it received from the unit diminished as a result of
the spread between Canadian and U.S. oil prices, the company
said in January.  Barrick said June 28 it expects to take a writedown of as
much as $5.5 billion on its delayed Pascua-Lama gold and silver
project in the Andes. It may take other “significant”
impairment charges, the company said at the time.  Barrick’s financial advisers on the energy deals are
Rothschild and Scotia Waterous. Its legal adviser is Norton Rose
Fulbright Canada LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  