-- CFA Level 2 Pass Rate Rose as Level 1 Unchanged in June
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-07-23T14:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/cfa-level-2-pass-rate-rose-as-level-1-unchanged-in-june.html
A higher percentage of hopefuls for
the  Chartered Financial Analyst  designation passed the second
level of their three-part exam in June compared with a year
earlier and success rates for the first level were unchanged.  Thirty-eight percent of applicants passed the first test,
the Charlottesville, Virginia-based  CFA Institute  said today on
its website, unchanged from June 2012 and up from 37 percent
when it was administered in December. The second level was
achieved by 43 percent, up from 42 percent in June of last year.
Results for the third level will be released in August.  Wall Street firms are rebounding from the financial crisis
as first-half revenue at the six biggest U.S. banks climbed for
the first time in four years. Even amid better markets, trust in
financial services remains low, CFA Institute Chief Executive
Officer  John Rogers  said in May.  “It’s important now, while the markets are better, that we
redouble our efforts to do try something about systemic risk,”
Rogers said in a Bloomberg Television  interview  that month.
“Systemic risks are growing in the system, and it’s very
important that we continue to keep our eye on the ball and not
just get complacent because market levels are better.”  Certification can lead to better jobs, higher salaries and
a deeper understanding of finance. Candidates may take the Level
1 exam in both June and December, whereas Level 2 and Level 3
are only offered in June. Successful charter recipients spend an
average of 300 hours preparing for each exam and typically take
four years to complete all three tests, according to the not-for-profit institute.  Enrollment for the exam in June fell for the first time in
eight years, declining 2.2 percent to 146,605 from a year
earlier, as Wall Street employment shrinks. The industry has
contributed less than 2 percent of  New York  City’s job growth
since the recession ended, New York State Comptroller Thomas P.
DiNapoli said in a statement last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  