-- CFTC Enforcers Bypassed Commission Votes on Probes, O’Malia Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-07-23T11:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/cftc-enforcers-bypassed-commission-votes-on-probes-o-malia-says.html
Enforcement lawyers at the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission have circumvented formal
agency votes to begin investigations unilaterally, according to
 Scott O’Malia , Republican member of the commission.  Lawyers at the top U.S. derivatives regulator are starting
enforcement investigations through a summary process that
doesn’t require a vote by the agency’s members who are confirmed
by the Senate, O’Malia said in testimony prepared for a hearing
today at the House Agriculture Committee.  The agency’s enforcement process “is a clear abrogation of
the commission’s powers and a violation of commission rules
relating to investigations,” O’Malia said in his prepared
remarks. He said he dissented from an enforcement matter
recently because of the “radical procedural shift” in
authorizing investigations.  Mark Wetjen, a Democratic commissioner, is also scheduled
to testify at a hearing expected to review Dodd-Frank Act rules
for the $633 trillion global swaps market.  The CFTC’s enforcement division has begun using new Dodd-Frank Act authorities to oversee swaps and futures markets,
while bringing a series of recent enforcement cases to ensure
customer funds are adequately protected. Yesterday, the CFTC
announced that Panther Energy Trading LLC and sole owner Michael
Coscia will pay $4.5 million to U.S. and U.K. regulators to
resolve allegations that they used high-frequency trading
algorithms that manipulated commodities markets.  Disruptive Trading  The case was the agency’s first to rely on authority
granted to the CFTC by Dodd-Frank to target disruptive trading
practices, including spoofing of orders by bidding with an
intent to cancel before a trade is conducted.  “While I support the division of enforcement’s efforts to
expeditiously investigate possible fraudulent activity, I also
recognize that the commission possesses certain responsibilities
to execute its law-enforcement powers and that these
responsibilities should not be brushed off to achieve an
‘efficient’ investigative process,” O’Malia said in the
remarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  