-- China’s Cooling Economy Faces Instability, State Researcher Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-23T16:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/chinese-economy-facing-instability-as-growth-cools-drc-says.html
China’s economy  may be facing a
period of instability and imbalance as it transitions from high-speed  growth (CNGDPYOY) , a state researcher said.  “Growth inertia should not be underestimated, as new
growth engines and patterns have not been formed,” researcher
Yu Bin said in a report by  China ’s Development Research Center
released yesterday in London. “Market expectations are
unstable, downward pressure has increased, and existing and new
structural mismatches exist. The economy has become unstable and
uncertain like never before.”  China’s  growth  slowed for a second straight quarter to 7.5
percent in the April-June period, increasing the risk that
Premier  Li Keqiang  will miss a full-year target for the same
pace. Reports in Chinese media indicating that Li will act to
support expansion if needed helped send the Shanghai Composite
Index up 2 percent yesterday.  The DRC is an agency advising China’s cabinet, and Yu said
that if China can maintain “an appropriate macroeconomic
environment,” start suitable reforms and control risks, “the
growth rate for 2013 can approach 7.5 percent.”  In a question-and-answer session after presenting the
report, Yu said via a translator that while the global economy
may strengthen in the second half of the year, “that doesn’t
mean an improvement in Chinese exports.”  He also said that “downward pressure” in the economy had
been larger than expected.  “If in the second half of the year, if the slide even goes
down further, then there will be more policy measures,” Yu was
translated as saying. “For example we can extend our deficit,
we can issue more medium- to long-term debt so then we can start
some big infrastructure projects.”  ‘Bottom Line’  Expansion below 7 percent won’t be tolerated because China
needs to achieve a moderately prosperous society by 2020,
according to a commentary published July 21 by the official
Xinhua News Agency. Li said at a recent meeting with economists
that 7 percent is the “bottom line” and the nation can’t allow
 growth  of less than that, Beijing News reported yesterday.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics will today release
preliminary results of a manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’
Index for July, giving one of the first indications of the
economy’s performance in the third quarter.  China this month eliminated the lower limit on  lending
rates  offered by the nation’s financial institutions as economic
growth slows and authorities expand the role of markets. The
central bank acknowledged that it was a limited step and said
that freeing up deposit rates would be more important.  Exports unexpectedly fell 3.1 percent in June from a year
earlier, the most since the global financial crisis. Industrial
production rose a less-than-forecast 8.9 percent and  factory-gate prices  declined for a 16th month.  China’s gross domestic product rose 7.5 percent in April to
June from a year earlier, down from 7.7 percent in the first
quarter. Growth was the slowest in three quarters and extended
the longest streak of sub-8 percent expansion in at least two
decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  