-- China Coal-Fired Economy Dying of Thirst as Mines Lack Water
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-24T10:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/china-s-coal-fired-economy-dying-of-thirst-as-mines-lack-water.html
At first glance, Daliuta in northern
 China  appears to have a river running through it. A closer look
reveals the stretch of water in the center is a pond, dammed at
both ends. Beyond the barriers, the Wulanmulun’s bed is dry.  Daliuta in Shaanxi province sits on top of the world’s
biggest underground coal mine, which requires millions of liters
of water a day for extracting, washing and processing the fuel.
The town is the epicenter of a looming collision between China’s
increasingly scarce supplies of water and its plan to power
economic growth with coal.  “Water shortages will severely limit thermal power
capacity additions,” said Charles Yonts, head of sustainable
research at brokerage CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Hong Kong.
“You can’t reconcile targets for coal production in, say,
Shanxi province and Inner Mongolia with their water targets.”  Coal industries and power stations use as much as 17
percent of China’s water, and almost all of the collieries are
in the vast energy basin in the north that is also one of the
country’s driest regions. By 2020 the government plans to boost
coal-fired power by twice the total generating capacity of  India .  About half of China’s rivers have dried up since 1990 and
those that remain are mostly contaminated. Without enough water,
coal can’t be mined, new power stations can’t run and the
economy can’t grow. At least 80 percent of the nation’s coal
comes from regions where the United Nations says water supplies
are either “stressed” or in “absolute scarcity.”  Desert State  China has about 1,730 cubic meters of fresh water per
person, close to the 1,700 cubic meter-level the UN deems
“stressed.” The situation is worse in the north, where half
China’s people, most of its coal and only 20 percent of its
water are located.  Shanxi -- the nation’s biggest coal base, with about 28
percent of production -- has per capita water resources of 347
cubic meters, less than the Middle Eastern nation of Oman. Inner
Mongolia and Shaanxi, which together contribute 40 percent of
coal output, have less than 1,700 cubic meters per person.  A government plan to boost the coal industry and build more
power plants near mines will lift industrial demand for water in
Inner Mongolia 141 percent by 2015 from 2010, causing aquifers
to dry up and deserts to expand, according to Greenpeace and the
Chinese Academy of Sciences’ Institute of Geographical Sciences
and Natural Resources. About 28,000 rivers have vanished since
1990, according to the Ministry of Water Resources and National
Bureau of Statistics.  Ordos Wells  “After five years there won’t be enough water in Ordos in
Inner Mongolia,” said Sun Qingwei, director of the climate and
energy campaign at Greenpeace in Beijing. “The mines are
stealing ground water from agriculture. Local governments want
their economies to boom.”  Wells drilled near Haolebaoji near Ordos by Shenhua Group,
the world’s biggest coal producer, have caused groundwater
levels to drop to a depth of as much as 100 meters, drying out
the region’s artesian wells, Greenpeace said in a report
yesterday. Two calls to Shenhua weren’t answered.  The water that does exist is mostly polluted. A government
survey published in February shows that only about a quarter of
the groundwater in the North China Plain -- an area that’s
bigger than  Greece  and includes Beijing and Tianjin, the
province of Hebei and parts of Henan and Shandong -- is fit for
human consumption.  Severe Pollution  Severe water pollution affects 75 percent of China’s rivers
and lakes and 28 percent are unsuitable even for agricultural
use, according to the 2012 book “China’s Environmental
Challenges,” by Judith Shapiro, director of the Masters program
in Natural Resources and Sustainable Development at the School
of International Service at American University in  Washington .  Geneva-based Pictet Asset Management’s $3.17 billion global
 water fund  doubled its exposure to stocks offering water
services in China to 10 percent since 2007. For Zurich-based
RobecoSAM’s 611 million-euro Sustainable Water fund, “ emerging
markets  offers the best opportunities in the world for water
investments and China is the standout.”  Water-treatment companies  Beijing Enterprises Water Group
Ltd. (371)  and  China Everbright (165)  International Ltd., which Pictet
invested in in 2009, are among its best performers this year,
partly on prospects for stricter environmental regulation in
China, said Geneva-based portfolio manager Arnaud Bisschop.  Beijing Enterprises has risen 55 percent this year to
HK$3.10 and Deutsche Bank sees it reaching HK$3.20 within a year.
China Everbright is up 83 percent to HK$7.18 and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. estimates it will reach HK$7.60 by mid-October.  ‘Utmost Urgency’  “The best opportunity is in industrial water re-use, and
for the mining industry, it is of the utmost urgency,” said
Junwei Hafner-Cai, a manager of RobecoSAM’s Sustainable Water
fund. “Water that has been released from the coal mines and
from petrochemical plants has resulted in severe pollution on
top of the water scarcity.”  A shortage of coal because of the lack of water to mine and
process the fuel may force China to increase imports, pushing up
world prices, according to Debra Tan, director at research firm
China Water Risk in Hong Kong. China, which mines 45 percent of
the world’s coal, may adopt an aggressive “coal-mine grab” to
secure supplies, said Tan.  Chinese demand will account for 25 percent of global coal
imports by 2015, London-based shipbroker ACM Shipping Group Plc
said in a report in April.  Indonesia  is the largest overseas
supplier of power-station coal to China, which buys as much as
45 percent of the Southeast Asian nation’s exports of the fuel.  China is responding with harsher limits on water usage, a
new tariff structure that allows for steep price gains, and
plans to spend 4 trillion  yuan  ($652 billion) by 2020 to boost
water infrastructure and resources.  Water Caps  Caps introduced in January limit the annual increase of
water used by the four biggest coal-producing regions to 2.9
percent annually until 2015, while their combined coal output is
set to increase almost 5 percent a year, according to CLSA.  Water shortages mean “industrial plants are more and more
under pressure,” said Guillaume Dourdin, Beijing-based head of
the North-West China region for  France ’s Veolia Water, which
treated 1.2 billion tons of waste water in China last year. “In
some places we can see it is a constraint for industry. We don’t
see a water war in China but obviously there are some tensions
on the resource in some parts.” Veolia Water, a unit of  Veolia
Environnement SA (VIE) , Europe’s biggest water company, has more than
13,000 employees in China.  Truck Queue  In Daliuta, the mine is “sucking up the groundwater,”
said Sun at Greenpeace. Trains hundreds of cars long rumble
along elevated tracks through the town center, hauling coal. On
the highway to Yulin, trucks carrying the fuel queue nose-to-tail for more than five kilometers to pass through toll booths.  Daliuta’s coal output surged 26 percent last year to 29.4
billion tons, according to owner  China Shenhua Energy Co. (1088) , the
nation’s biggest coal producer.  The town’s river-turned-pond was dammed about six years ago
to beautify the area for new apartment blocks along the banks,
said Zhe Mancang, who owns a liquor store nearby. The artificial
lake is now contaminated with waste water from the mines.  “I worry about the water,” said Zhe, 58. “But I’ve no
choice. My family’s here and my customers are from the mines.”  The effect of water shortages extends beyond the north. New
rules this year require the manufacturing hubs of Jiangsu and
Guangdong provinces and  Shanghai  to reduce water use every year
even as their economies expand. Nationwide growth in usage is
capped at 1 percent annually.  Water Prices  In the city of Guangzhou water prices rose 50 percent for
residents and 89 percent for industrial users in May 2012 to
help pay for improvements to quality and supply, according to an
April report by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Stricter controls will raise the risk of investment in
water-intensive industries and heavy polluters including coal,
metals and paper production, especially in the north, said Tan.  “In an absolute worst case you’d see a large-scale shift
in economic activity and population further south for lack of
water, and manufacturing increasingly moving abroad,” said
Scott Moore, a research fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School’s
Sustainability Science Program in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  To alleviate the shortage in the north, the central
government in 2002 approved the 500 billion yuan South-to-North
water diversion project, the largest irrigation project in the
world. The plan is to carry 44.8 billion cubic meters of water
from the Yangtze river along three routes.  Tianjin Canal  The 1,467-kilometer-long eastern canal to Tianjin is
scheduled for completion at the end of this year. The central
route to Beijing, more than 1,270 kilometers, is slated to open
next year. The western route is still being planned.  Even this massive program may not be enough. The Asian
Development Bank said in a report last year that China’s demand
for water may exceed supply by as much as 200 billion cubic
meters by 2030, according to some estimates, unless “major
capital investments to strengthen water supplies are made beyond
those presently planned.”  More efficient use would help. Chinese industry uses four
to 10 times more water per unit of production than the average
in developed countries, Tan wrote in a February report. Only 40
percent of industrial water is recycled, compared with 75
percent to 85 percent in developed countries, the World Bank
says.  Yellow River  China has had some success. In the late 1990s, so much
water was being taken from the Yellow River, the nation’s
second-longest waterway, that it dried up before reaching the
sea for as much as 226 days consecutively. After quotas
controlled by electronic sluice gates were implemented, the
amount of water needed to generate 10,000 yuan of GDP fell to
308 cubic meters in 2006, from 1,672 cubic meters in 1990,
according to the Yellow River Conservancy Commission.  China’s efforts to expand alternative energy, including
investing $65.1 billion in clean energies like solar and wind
power in 2012, aren’t enough to match rising demand. The
nation’s dependence on thermal power generation, including gas
and oil, will decline by just three percentage points to 76
percent by 2030, Bloomberg New Energy Finance analysts Maxime
Serrano Bardisa and Alasdair Wilson wrote in a February report.  Among the biggest losers are farmers, who have to dig
deeper and deeper wells to find clean water, or are forced out
by local governments who see bigger economic gains from mining.  In Zhanggaijie village, 90 minutes from Yulin city in
Shaanxi, Li Qiaoling’s corn harvest slumped to 2 to 3 tons per
mu (667 square meters) from 4 to 5 tons four years ago, she said.
Li, 43, had to deepen her well to 60 meters from about 30 meters
five years ago, she said.  Relocation Wait  Now she waits with about 200 villagers for compensation and
news from local officials on where they will be relocated after
coal mining polluted the local water supply, said Li.  “We’re angry because we have to leave,” said Li, who
still farms and sells produce from her 11 mu plot, despite the
contamination. “We’re worried about moving to a strange
place.”  Premier Li Keqiang vowed at a March press briefing to crack
down on pollution. “Being rich and well-off isn’t OK either if
the environment deteriorates,” Li said.  Implementing such promises has proved elusive. In April, a
group of 60 officials from the Ministry of Environmental
Protection told Zhang Haibin, an associate professor at Peking
University, that they “don’t dare to really monitor” pollution
because it would affect growth, Zhang said at a forum. The
officials said when “economic growth conflicts, environmental
targets always give way,” Zhang said.  A manufacturing report today from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics only highlighted that pressure, pointing to a
deeper slowdown this month in the Chinese economy.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  