-- China’s Yancheng Halts Home Price Limits, People’s Daily Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-23T03:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/china-s-yancheng-halts-home-price-limits-people-s-daily-says.html
China ’s eastern city of Yancheng has
halted limits on  home prices  because an increase in supply was
putting pressure on prices, the official People’s Daily
newspaper reported today.  Yancheng, in Jiangsu province, has suspended the price
limit for “a period of time,” the newspaper said, citing an
unidentified employee from the city’s housing authority. The
city ordered developers in 2009 to register with the government
before marketing their home projects and capping sale prices
below the registered price.  China’s former Premier Wen Jiabao in March stepped up a
three-year campaign to cool home prices, ordering the central
bank to raise down-payment requirements for second mortgages in
cities with excessive cost gains and telling local governments
with the biggest price pressures to tighten home-purchase limits
and set price-control targets. Beijing issued the toughest
measures among 35 provincial cities, raising the minimum down
payment on second homes and enforcing a 20 percent capital-gains
tax on existing homes.  “Smaller cities like Yancheng probably face bigger risks
of prices falling as demand couldn’t keep up with the
construction boom,” Dai Fang, a Shanghai-based property analyst
at Zheshang Securities Co., said in a phone interview.  Two phone calls to Yancheng’s housing bureau went
unanswered.  Smaller Cities  The Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index, which tracks 24
developers, rose 2.6 percent as of 11:13 a.m., compared with a
1.7 percent gain in the benchmark.  Home prices in Yancheng fell 0.6 percent in June from a
month earlier, the 11th biggest drop among 100 cities tracked by
 SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s largest real estate website
owner. Yancheng is not among the 70 cities the bureau of
statistics tracks because it is too small and SouFun only
included Yancheng on its list this year.  “The city is too small to show whether the government has
allowed easing of property curbs,” Lin Bo, a Shanghai-based
property analyst at China Real Estate Information Corp., a
property data and consulting firm, said. “It may have just
signal that the new leadership expects the market to play a
bigger role in property policies.”  Unlike in major cities where home prices are still rising,
smaller cities are starting to see a slowdown in activity. In
Ordos in  Inner Mongolia , known for its empty buildings, home
sales have come to a virtual halt and some district governments
had to borrow money from companies to pay salaries of municipal
employees, a magazine published by the official Xinhua News
Agency reported earlier this month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  