-- China Bans New Government Buildings in Waste Crackdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-24T04:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/china-bans-new-government-buildings-in-five-year-waste-crackdown.html
China  banned government departments,
Communist Party agencies and state-owned companies from
constructing new office buildings for five years as the country
seeks to cut wasteful spending.  The ban includes construction for purposes of training,
meetings and accommodation, the government  said in a statement 
on its website yesterday, calling for resources to be spent
instead on developing the economy and improving public welfare.
Projects that have already won approval and not under
construction should also be halted, the government said. All
localities should report on the implementation of the new rules
by Sept. 30, according to the statement.  President  Xi Jinping , appointed as the ruling Communist
Party’s general secretary in November, last month pledged a
“thorough cleanup” of the party amid a yearlong campaign aimed
at ridding its ranks of bureaucracy and extravagance. China’s
 economy  grew 7.5 percent in the second quarter and is at risk of
the weakest annual expansion in 23 years.  “The main purpose of the call for a ban on new government
buildings is largely symbolic in that these are a highly visible
sign of government officials misusing public monies,” Andrew Wedeman, a political science professor at  Georgia State
University  and author of “Double Paradox: Rapid Growth and
Rising Corruption in China,” wrote in an e-mail. “A real
assault on corruption, however, requires a much less visible,
long-term effort to attack the causes of corruption, not just
those involved and the visible symbols of corruption.”  Wedeman said he doubted that money not spent on public
buildings would be re-channeled into education, welfare or
social programs, so the economic impact probably won’t be large.  Magnificent Offices  “I feel good when I see facilities for serving people are
well constructed,” Xi was quoted by the official Xinhua News
Agency as saying yesterday during a visit to the city of Wuhan
in Hubei province. “I feel bad when I see magnificent
government offices.”  The ban applies to courts, prosecutors, labor unions and
youth leagues, according to yesterday’s statement. Some
departments and local authorities have recently built office
compounds in violation of regulations, which has hurt the image
of the party and the government, according to the statement.  The People’s Daily, the Chinese Communist Party’s official
newspaper, published a front-page article in May criticizing a
government building in the city of Jinan, in Shandong province.
The newspaper, citing online speculation that the building cost
4 billion  yuan  ($652 million), said the structure was evidence
of the need for more strict supervision of local governments. A
building modeled on the White House, in Fuyang in Anhui
province, drew public criticism in 2007.  Local Debt  Total local government debt may have risen 13 percent to
12.1 trillion yuan in 2011 and 2012, Moody’s Investors Service
estimated in June, adding to risks that the central government
will be forced to bail out local authorities and take over their
liabilities.  Local finance departments shouldn’t release funding for
projects without proper approvals, and land agencies shouldn’t
grant property-use rights, according to the statement.  While the policy allows restoration of buildings with
outdated facilities, such projects must be designed to remove
safety risks and restore office functions without adding
luxurious renovation, the government said in the statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  