-- China Swap Rate Touches Four-Week High as Bill Redemptions Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-23T02:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/china-swap-rate-touches-four-week-high-as-bill-redemptions-drop.html
China ’s one-year interest-rate swap
touched a four-week high on speculation cash supply will dwindle
as debt redemptions decline this week.  No central bank bills are due this week, compared with 85
billion  yuan  ($14 billion) maturing next week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Yuan  positions  at Chinese financial
institutions accumulated from sales of foreign exchange declined
41.2 billion yuan in June, the first drop in seven months, the
People’s Bank of China reported yesterday.  “The market is already tighter heading into this week as
there are no PBOC bills scheduled to mature,” said Pin Ru Tan,
an interest-rate strategist at HSBC Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong
Kong. “Further, there is a possibility there was some temporary
liquidity assistance given in late June to selected banks that
has to be repaid this week.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, was little
changed at 4.13 percent as of 10:40 a.m. in  Shanghai , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate touched 4.18 percent
earlier, the highest since June 25.  The PBOC won’t likely drain or add funds with repurchase
operations today and hadn’t announced auctions as of 9:29 a.m.,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions.  Gross domestic product  climbed 7.5 percent in the second
quarter, compared with 7.7 percent in the previous three months,
the statistics bureau said on July 15. Premier Li Keqiang said
China’s “bottom line” for GDP gains is 7 percent and the
nation can’t let growth go below that, Beijing News reported
today, citing comments at a recent meeting with economists and
business people.  The seven-day repo rate climbed two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.95 percent, based on a  weighted average 
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  