-- China Stocks Rise Most in 2 Weeks as Li Report Spurs Growth Bets
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-07-23T07:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/china-s-stock-futures-gain-signaling-benchmark-index-may-rise.html
China’s benchmark stock index  rose
the most in almost two weeks as investors speculated the
government will lift spending on railroads and environmental
gear to maintain economic growth of at least 7 percent.  CSR Corp. and  China  Railway Construction Co.  rallied  more
than 7 percent after China Business News reported state-run
China Railway Corp. may increase investment for railway
construction this year. Fujian Longking Co., which makes
pollution-control equipment, climbed to a seven-week high after
China Business News said the government will invest 100 billion
yuan ($16 billion) annually over five years to curb dirty air.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 2 percent to 2,043.88
at the close, with trading volumes jumping 16 percent from the
30-day average. Premier  Li Keqiang  said China’s “bottom line”
for economic growth is 7 percent, Beijing News reported today,
citing comments at a recent meeting with economists and
businessmen. Li previously said growth shouldn’t fall below
lower limits that he didn’t specify.  “Li’s comment about having a growth bottom line is
reassuring to investors because this means they need not be
especially worried about a severe economic downturn and the
economy is still manageable,” said Qian Weihai, an analyst at
 Shanghai  Securities Co.  The CSI 300 Index advanced 2.9 percent today. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong 
surged 3.8 percent, as weaker-than-estimated U.S. home sales
eased concern about an early exit from economic stimulus
efforts. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index added less than 0.1
percent yesterday.  Growth Targets  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 10 percent this year as
data from industrial production to exports pointed to a slowdown
in the economy and as money-market rates reached record highs
last month. Speculation that growth would fall below the
government’s annual target of 7.5 percent announced in March has
intensified after Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  said earlier this
month that 6.5 percent expansion wouldn’t be a “big problem.”  Li was cited by Beijing News as saying the “lower limit”
for China’s GDP expansion is 7.5 percent. The article didn’t
elaborate on the difference between a “lower limit” and a
“bottom line.”  “Li recognizes that growth is approaching the 7.5 percent
floor at the moment, but he sees no room on monetary easing and
he will use supply-side measures to bolster growth without
worsening existing structural problems,” Ting Lu, China
economist at Bank of America Corp., wrote in a note to clients.  Rail Companies  China Railway may increase investment for railway
construction beyond the 650 billion  yuan  ($106 billion) earlier
planned for this year, China Business News reported, citing an
unidentified person close to high government officials. New
high-speed rail lines could help reduce overcapacity in
industries such as steel and cement, the Shanghai Securities
News reported, citing railway officials.  CSR, China’s biggest train maker, advanced 8.1 percent to
3.86 yuan, the biggest jump since Feb. 5. China Railway
Construction jumped 7.2 percent to 4.76 yuan, the largest
increase since Jan. 4. Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. rose 1.5 percent
to 4.10 yuan. Anhui Conch Cement Co. increased 2.7 percent to
14.21 yuan. Angang Steel Co. added 3 percent to 2.75 yuan.  “Railway investment is the easiest way for the government
to bolster growth every time the economy slows,” said  Li Jun , a
strategist at Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai.  The government will continue a prudent monetary policy and
a proactive fiscal policy, Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli said during
a visit to the southern province of Guizhou, according to a
State Council statement posted yesterday. China must take
actions to support “reasonable” infrastructure as well as
small- and medium-sized companies, Zhang said.  Fujian Longking advanced 1.8 percent to 27.08 yuan. The
China Securities Journal said a plan to prevent water pollution
will be submitted to the State Council by early August.  Ping An Bank Co. led a rebound for financial companies,
rallying 5.7 percent to 9.96 yuan. Chinese banks face
“insignificant” pricing pressure on loans after the nation
removed the lending rate floor, news portal Hexun.com cited
research from  Agricultural Bank of China  as saying yesterday.  -- Editors: Allen Wan,  Michael Patterson   To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  