-- China Faces Renewed EU Tariffs on Ironing Boards; Ukraine Spared
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-07-23T08:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/china-faces-renewed-eu-tariffs-on-ironing-boards-ukraine-spared.html
The European Union renewed tariffs
as high as 42.3 percent on ironing boards from  China  to curb
competition for Italian, Polish and British producers while
letting a levy against Ukraine lapse.  The EU re-imposed the duties against China for another five
years to punish Chinese exporters such as Greenwood Houseware
(Zhuhai) Ltd. for allegedly having sold ironing boards in the
bloc below cost, a practice known as dumping. The expiring anti-dumping levy against Ukraine is 7 percent.  A repeal of the measures against China “would result in
increased exports at dumped levels of ironing boards” by
Chinese manufacturers to Europe, the 28-nation EU said today in
the  Official Journal . The decision, taken on July 15 in
Brussels, will enter into force tomorrow.  The trade protection, imposed in 2007, aims to help EU
producers including  Italy ’s Colombo New Scal SpA,  Poland ’s
Rorets Polska Sp. zoo and the U.K.’s Vale Mill (Rochdale) Ltd.
keep market share against Chinese competitors. China’s share of
the EU market for ironing boards fell to between 15 percent and
20 percent in 2011 from between 40 percent and 45 percent in
2008, according to the bloc.  When it applied the anti-dumping measures in April 2007,
the EU set the rates at 9.9 percent against Ukraine and between
18.1 percent and 38.1 percent against China, depending on the
Chinese manufacturer. In  2010 , the EU lowered the rate against
Ukraine to 7 percent and raised the maximum levy against China
to 42.3 percent.  Ukraine’s sole exporter of ironing boards was identified as
Eurogold Industries Ltd., affiliated with Switzerland-based
Eurogold Service Zumbuehl & Co.  The renewal of the duties against China and the end of the
levy against Ukraine are the outcome of a 15-month investigation
that prevented the levies against both countries from expiring
as previously scheduled in April 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  