-- Cisco Agrees to Buy Sourcefire in $2.7 Billion Deal
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-07-23T16:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/cisco-agrees-to-buy-sourcefire-in-2-7-billion-deal.html
  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest
maker of networking equipment, agreed to acquire  Sourcefire Inc. (FIRE) 
for about $2.7 billion, adding anti-hacking technology used
extensively by the U.S. government.  Cisco will pay $76 a share in cash, the San Jose,
California-based company said today, a 29 percent premium over
Sourcefire’s closing price yesterday. Cisco said the deal value
includes outstanding equity awards and retention incentives.  Chief Executive Officer John Chambers is expanding in
cybersecurity to fend off competition from smaller rivals such
as  Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW)  and  Fortinet Inc. (FTNT) , which make
Internet firewalls. Sourcefire’s intrusion-detection products
may help Cisco win more business from corporate and government
customers seeking to beef up network protections as hacker
attacks become more sophisticated and widespread.  “This is certainly going to boost the revenue, but more so
than anything else it is going to give Cisco engineers technical
acumen and establish credibility with Cisco in this space,”
Jason Ader, an analyst at William Blair & Co., said in an
interview.  “Sourcefire’s products are a lot better.”  Cisco’s shares fell less than 1 percent to $25.65 at 11:51
a.m. in New York, and they had advanced 31 percent this year
through yesterday. Sourcefire surged 28 percent to $75.47.  ‘Bigger Players’  Fortinet increased as much as 8.1 percent to $22.09, the
biggest intraday gain since January, amid speculation that it
might be acquired. The Sunnyvale, California-based security
company could be valued at $39 a share in a takeover, according
to  Daniel Ives , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets.  “We expect a surge of consolidation to take place over the
next 12 to 18 months on the heels of strong secular trends,
massive cyber threats, and as larger technology players look to
become bigger players,” Ives wrote in a research note today.  Juniper Networks Inc., Symantec Corp., EMC Corp. and
International Business Machines Corp. are among the companies
that may use deals to expand in cybersecurity, Ives said.
Besides Fortinet, potential targets include firewall-providers
Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. and Palo Alto Networks.  Sourcefire, based in Columbia,  Maryland , builds security
 platforms  for corporate and government customers including
firewalls, intrusion detectors and advanced malware protection.  Last year, about 19 percent of total revenue came from one
customer that distributes Sourcefire’s products to the U.S.
government, the company said in a filing. Sales rose 35 percent
to $223.1 million in 2012. The company’s initial public offering
in 2007 raised $86.6 million.  Traffic-Inspection  Many of Sourcefire’s products are built on  Snort , an open-source program developed in 1998 by Sourcefire founder Martin Roesch. The technology is used by most Fortune 100 companies and
30 of the largest U.S. government agencies to detect attempted
attacks on their networks,  according to the company .  Sourcefire’s business with the U.S. government is a “very
valuable” part of the deal and will give Cisco more access to
key federal cybersecurity decision-makers, Christopher Young,
senior vice president of Cisco’s security group, said in an
interview.  “These guys made a lot of investments in advanced malware,
a lot of investments in the cloud and security intelligence,”
Young said. “The security market is in transition, and the game
is moving to advanced malware identification and advanced threat
defense.”  Security Deals  Excluding the retention-based incentives, Cisco’s offer
values Sourcefire at about $2.2 billion, including net cash and
options, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s about
141 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, the data show. The median paid in a survey of more
than 20 Internet-security deals is about 15 times Ebitda, the
data show. The largest such transaction was Intel Corp.’s
takeover of McAfee Inc. for $7.7 billion, completed in 2011.  Tel Aviv, Israel-based Check Point tried to buy Sourcefire
for about $225 million in 2005, then withdrew its offer, citing
scrutiny by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United
States. The committee, an arm of the U.S. Department of the
Treasury, was reviewing the deal over the transfer of sensitive
technologies to a foreign company.  The boards of Cisco and Sourefire have approved their
transaction, which is expected to close during the second half
of 2013. Cisco said the purchase will be slightly dilutive to
adjusted earnings in fiscal 2014 due to purchase accounting
adjustments and integration costs.  Centerview Partners LLC advised Cisco on the transaction.  Cisco in May agreed to acquire JouleX for $107 million,
adding software that helps companies manage power usage as
mobile devices spur a surge in data traffic. In April, Cisco
agreed to purchase U.K. networking company Ubiquisys for about
$310 million, gaining technology that helps wireless carriers
provide better service to smartphone and tablet users.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  