-- Congressional Cowardice on Guns, Again
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-23T16:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/congressional-cowardice-on-guns-again.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency has a new administrator. The director of the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau is finally official, as is the
secretary of the Department of Labor. The president of the all-important U.S. Export-Import Bank is safely enjoying his second
term.  Notably absent from this list of presidential appointees --
newly confirmed last week by the U.S. Senate after a bipartisan
deal on filibusters -- is a new director for the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Need we expend much
energy wondering why?  The ATF hasn’t had a director since 2006, when the gun
lobby worked its peculiar magic and, lo and behold, the
reauthorization of the Patriot Act included a new requirement
that the director of the ATF be confirmed by the Senate --
despite the fact that the director’s boss, the attorney general,
already requires Senate confirmation.  Seven years later, no one has ever been confirmed as ATF
director. President George W. Bush’s nominee, ATF Acting
Director Michael Sullivan, was  deemed  “overly zealous” by the
National Rifle Association. When in 2010 President  Barack Obama 
nominated veteran ATF agent Andrew Traver to be the agency’s
director, the NRA  denounced  his “anti-gun activities.” His
nomination, too, went nowhere.  Obama -- who has been the subject of a  spectacularly
lucrative  gun-lobby campaign to convince gun aficionados that he
could at any moment confiscate their firearms -- apparently
decided that the lobby’s grip on Congress made it pointless to
nominate anyone else. He waited until his second term -- and
after the massacre in December 2012 in Newtown,  Connecticut  --
before proposing U.S. Attorney B. Todd Jones as ATF director. It
is Jones’ nomination that is now stalled in the Senate.  Why is the director of the ATF so important? The ATF is
responsible for conducting regulatory inspections of the
nation’s more than 123,000 licensed gun dealers. As a Department
of Justice  report  released in April made clear, the agency is so
hindered by congressionally imposed obstacles and “insufficient
investigator resources” that it can’t adequately perform its
duties. In addition to preventing the ATF from keeping
computerized records of gun transactions, Congress passed
legislation prohibiting the agency from inspecting a licensed
gun dealer more than once a year. Because the ATF has only 2,500
agents to police guns, tobacco, alcohol and explosives, the
majority of gun dealers received no inspection at all from the
understaffed agency over a five-year period.  This failure comes at a price. From 2004 to 2011, the
nation’s gun shops  lost  174,679 guns through theft or loss
(that’s the official number; actual losses are undoubtedly much
higher). It’s unknown how many of these ended up in the
possession of criminals. Even when the ATF concludes that a gun
dealer is not complying with the law, it can take years to
revoke a license. The practical consequence is that rogue gun
dealers can supply criminals for years without worrying about
official disruptions to their business.  Stein’s Law, attributed to economist Herbert Stein,
stipulates that if something can’t go on forever, it won’t. So
it is with gun policy. Congress can’t enable the recklessness
and greed of the gun lobby in perpetuity. At some point, it will
stop. The question is how long it will take, and in what form.  Lawmakers had a chance to stand up to the NRA by passing
background-check legislation this spring. They failed. The Jones
nomination now awaits action. Congress’s indulgence of firearm
fanaticism and political cowardice will have to end somewhere.
Maybe the first modest step can be confirming the director of
the ATF.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 