-- Fed Criticized on Oversight of Bank-Owned Commodity Units
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-23T23:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/congress-must-rein-in-bank-commodities-units-rosner-says.html
The  Federal Reserve  faces new
pressure to explain why it lets banks trade raw materials and
control supplies after congressional witnesses said regulators
can’t really grasp what lenders are doing in industrial
businesses.  Officials from the Fed and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission may testify at hearings in September, U.S. Senator
Sherrod Brown said in an interview yesterday after witnesses
told his Senate subcommittee that commodities operations owned
by lenders are hurting customers and endangering the financial
system. He’ll also seek testimony from bankers.  “Should the public generally be forced to feel around in
the dark to figure this stuff out?” Brown, an Ohio Democrat,
said during the hearing. “This is too important,” he added
later. “It does significant potential damage to the economy.”  The Fed said last week it’s reviewing a decade-old decision
to break down barriers between finance and commerce by letting
banks deal in physical assets like metal and oil. A reversal
could put commodity units of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley in jeopardy.  Witnesses at yesterday’s hearing in Washington said
financial regulators can’t effectively oversee units in
industries that fall outside of typical banking or foresee the
risks they pose to taxpayer-backed firms.  “To expect the regulators to understand the web of
relationships that exist here is not rational,” said  Joshua Rosner , a bank analyst at New York-based Graham Fisher & Co.,
which advises clients on investments in the financial industry.
Regulators failed similar tasks in the years leading to the 2008
financial crisis, he said.  Commodity Risks  Risks in banks’ commodities businesses can be managed by
limiting them to frequently traded products and setting curbs on
volume, Randall Guynn, head of the financial institutions group
at law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, said at the hearing.
Regulators also can require minimum amounts of capital and
liquidity, he said.  “It would be the unusual bank examiner who understands the
 commodities markets , oil markets and  oil tankers , and so forth,
but they do have tools that they have used and can use to try to
control this risk,” Guynn said.  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed spokeswoman, and the CFTC’s  Steve Adamske  declined to comment on the prospects for a future
hearing.  Yesterday’s hearing featured questions from Brown,
Democrats  Elizabeth Warren  of  Massachusetts  and  Jeff Merkley  of
 Oregon , and  Pat Toomey , a Pennsylvania Republican, in front of a
full audience. Brown said he’s concerned that lenders may be put
at risk when volatile commodity markets move against them or
disaster strikes one of their operations.  Making Choices  “What do we want our banks to do? Make small-business
loans or refine and transport oil? Issue mortgages or corner the
metals market?” Brown said at the hearing’s outset. “Taxpayers
have a right to know what’s happening and to have a say.”  Brown is among lawmakers who say banks can drive up prices
when they control both the physical products and the financing.
Merkley said the arrangement may allow banks to “put a thumb on
the scale” to influence supply and demand, and bet accordingly.  U.S. Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who leads
the  Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations, said lawmakers may
use his panel’s subpoena power to examine banks’ trading and
ownership of physical commodities. Levin said he may hold his
own hearings if he isn’t satisfied with the outcome of Brown’s
effort, which can’t compel testimony or demand documents.  Aluminum Market  The CFTC told firms involved in commodity warehousing to
retain internal documents and e-mails related to the businesses,
the  New York  Times reported, citing people who had reviewed the
requests.  The beverage industry has complained that banks and other
warehouse owners are manipulating aluminum supplies and slowing
deliveries to drive up the price. Costs were inflated by $3
billion worldwide in the past year, Tim Weiner, a global risk
manager at brewer MillerCoors LLC, told the panel in prepared
remarks.  Goldman Sachs, the most profitable Wall Street securities
firm before the 2008 financial crisis, posted a  rebuttal  to some
of the criticism on the company’s website. The firm said about
95 percent of the aluminum used in manufacturing comes from
producers and dealers outside the London Metal Exchange
warehouse system in which banks participate.  Enron Redux  Banks may have adopted the model for trading both physical
commodities and derivatives used by Enron Corp., adding “more
and more risk” to the financial system, Warren said at
yesterday’s hearing. Enron, was the world’s biggest trader of
power and natural gas before it collapsed in 2001 amid an
accounting fraud, and some former employees pleaded guilty to
charges they tried to manipulate power prices.  Moves by banks to deepen their involvement in physical
commodity trading and assets “suggests this movie won’t end
well,” she said.  The 10 largest Wall Street banks generated about $6 billion
in revenue from commodities in 2012, including $1 billion from
dealings in physical materials, according to data from analytics
company Coalition Ltd. Goldman Sachs ranked No. 1, followed by
New York-based JPMorgan.  Biggest Players  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan are the biggest
Wall Street players in physical commodities. Goldman Sachs held
$7.7 billion of commodities at fair value as of March 31 and New
York-based Morgan Stanley had $6.7 billion, according to
regulatory filings. JPMorgan had $14.3 billion in physical
commodities as of March 31, according to a filing.  Critics “don’t provide a shred of evidence to support the
view that these potential dangers are likely to be realized,”
Guynn said at the hearing. “The connection between banking and
commodities is not a new development.”  The knowledge that banks gain from participating “helps
the prices in the derivatives markets and the pricing in the
physical markets to converge, which is actually a good thing,”
he said.  None of the banks discloses how much revenue or profit
comes from commodity trading or break out the contribution from
physical assets. The Fed has been “less than forthcoming”
about its oversight of the units, Brown said.  Regulatory Limits  Saule T. Omarova, a law professor at the University of
 North Carolina  at  Chapel Hill , said she doubts regulators are
capable of overseeing businesses outside of normal banking.  “It stretches regulatory capacity beyond its limits,”
Omarova said in an interview. “No regulator in the financial
world can realistically, effectively manage all the risks of an
enterprise of financial activities, but also the marketing of
gas, oil, electricity and metals. How can one banking regulator
develop the expertise to know what’s going on?”  Rosner said the federal backing of U.S. banks gives them a
funding advantage that can distort markets. The result could be
guarantees that extend beyond the financial industry, said
Arthur Wilmarth, a law professor specializing in banking and
financial regulation at George Washington University in
Washington.  “If you allow banks to get heavily into commerce, then
pretty soon you’re going to see the safety net wrapping around
the entire commercial sectors that the banks are involved in,”
Wilmarth, who wasn’t a witness at the hearing, said in an
interview. “They clearly are taking a lot of risk on it, and if
something went really bad and endangered the survival of a major
bank, I think the federal government’s going to be there” with
emergency lending or liquidation measures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  