-- GM Fires Several Employees After India SUV Recall
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-07-26T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/corvette-to-silverado-lead-gm-boost-after-second-quarter.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  has fired several
employees after an internal investigation into the recall of a
sport-utility vehicle built and sold exclusively in India
uncovered violations of company policy, the automaker said.  “We take these matters very seriously and hold our leaders
and employees to high standards,”  Greg Martin , a GM spokesman
at the company’s Detroit headquarters, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “When those standards are not met, we will
take the appropriate action to hold employees accountable.”  The fired employees included workers in India and the U.S.,
GM said without specifying the number involved. The announcement
comes as the Indian government opens an investigation into GM’s
subsidiary after the unit said employees manipulated emissions
tests during the past eight years to comply with requirements,
one person familiar with the situation said.  The government is reviewing its systems and investigating
GM to see if there were systemic errors, willful negligence or
other wrongdoing, Ambuj Sharma, joint secretary at  India ’s
Ministry of Heavy Industry, said today. The report should be
completed next month and GM faces the possibility of monetary
penalties and production stoppage, Sharma said.  The Economic Times in India earlier reported that GM said
in a July 18 letter to the government that an internal
investigation uncovered employees manipulating emissions tests
for the Chevrolet Tavera SUV. Automotive News reported yesterday
that Sam Winegarden, GM’s vice president for global engine
engineering, was fired along with about 10 other people.  On July 24, GM announced a recall of the Tavera from 2005
through 2013 to “address emissions and specification issues.”
The company at the time said it was “not safety-related.”  The Economic Times described the recall as one of the
largest in the country.  GM fell  1.1 percent  to $36.67 yesterday in  New York . The
shares gained 27 percent this year through yesterday, outpacing
the 19 percent gain by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in New York at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  