-- Croda Hoards Cash for Growth as Europe, Cropcare Blights Results
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-07-23T11:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/croda-hoards-cash-as-it-steps-up-search-for-technology-purchases.html
Croda International Plc (CRDA) , which
reported a 28 percent jump in first-half  cash flow , plans to
hold on to the funds as it accelerates a search for technology
to acquire, according to Chief Financial Officer Sean Christie.  Chief Technology Officer Keith Layden has a team of 10
seeking bolt-on targets, Christie said in an interview.  Expansion into the cosmetic-additives industry by  Clariant
AG (CLN)  and  Evonik Industries AG (EVK)  has heaped pressure on Croda to
maintain an edge by focusing on higher-margin active
ingredients. The U.K. company has already made targeted
acquisitions to add stem-cell technology and patented products,
while backing away from areas that are less differentiated.  “We’re accelerating our efforts to find very clever bits
of technology,” said Christie. “We’re fine with buybacks and
special dividends: We’ve already got a generous mainstream
dividend policy so we’re not shorting our shareholders.”  A deal of size could help sustain Croda’s value creation,
according to Canaccord analyst Alicia Forry. Investor concern
that Croda will struggle to maintain its historic pace of margin
improvement has weighed on the FTSE100 index member this year.  The Snaith, Yorkshire-based company has risen 3 percent,
compared with an advance of 18 percent at Clariant, which is
selling commodity businesses to focus on specialty chemicals for
the oil and gas industries and personal-care items.  Growth Worries  Croda dropped as much as 7.2 percent to 2,384 pence, the
biggest intraday decline since December 2008, and traded at
2,467 pence as of 1:22 p.m. in London.  The company reported second-quarter earnings before
interest and taxes of 71.1 million pounds ($109 million), an
increase of 4.4 percent. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey
predicted 71.4 million pounds, according to an average estimate.
A slowdown in the European automotive industry and delays to the
planting season cutting orders for additives used in fungicides
and other crop chemicals hurt profit.  Markets in  Europe  are expected to remain tough in the near
term, Christie said in the interview. Farming trends have now
normalized after drought in the U.S. and Europe’s extended
winter, with sales at the Crop Care division currently “quite
strong,” according to the CFO. Its move into top-end
ingredients used by companies such as Nivea for their range of
sunblock creams added to growth at the consumer care segment.  Last year, Croda hired Layden to spearhead research into
biotechnology and the use of bacteria and proteins to
manufacture products such as the anti-wrinkle additive in top-end face creams. Among projects, the company is working with
drugmakers to release pharmaceuticals using its Omega 3 fatty
acid technology.  The world’s second-largest cosmetic-ingredients maker
generated 111.7 million pounds ($171 million) in cash, and its
net debt stands at 0.7 times earnings. That’s the eighth lowest
among members of the STOXX 600 Chemicals index.  Christie said the subject of buybacks isn’t considered on a
quarterly basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  