-- Currency Rules Sought in Pacific-Trade Deal by Automakers
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-07-23T19:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/currency-rules-sought-in-pacific-trade-deal-by-automakers.html
A trade pact among Pacific-region
nations should include provisions to prevent currency
manipulation, Representative Sander Levin said, siding with U.S.
automakers in expressing concern about  Japan ’s economic policies
as the nation formally joins the talks.  “We need an enforceable obligation to avoid manipulating
exchange rates,” Levin of  Michigan , the top Democrat on the
House Ways & Means Committee, said today in  remarks  for a speech
at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
 Washington .  The provision is included in a broader plan Levin unveiled
to encourage Japan to open its auto sector to more foreign
competition.  Japan today joins 11 nations working to create the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a free-trade zone that would link an area
with about $26 trillion in annual economic output. Japan’s
participation has rankled U.S. automakers, who say the  Tokyo 
government’s policies favor domestic manufacturers, and
environmental groups, who say the Asian nation’s need for
liquefied natural gas will lead to more drilling in the U.S.  The American Automotive Policy Council, an industry group
that represents  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler
Group LLC, has said it won’t support the TPP unless it contains
a currency provision. The group said today that more than 80,000
U.S. auto-industry workers have signed a petition to Congress on
the issue.  ‘Fully Open’  “To avoid locking in one-way trade and rewarding currency
manipulation, the TPP must require Japan to fully open its
market to competition and include strong and enforceable
currency rules to prevent subsidies for Japanese automakers,”
Matt Blunt, president of the U.S. industry group, said in a
 statement .  U.S. automakers have said Japan’s market remains too closed
to imports and that policies by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
government have weakened the yen, giving Japanese exporters an
unfair advantage over foreign competitors.  The yen, trading at 99.55 per U.S. dollar at 2:35 p.m. in
New York, has declined 21.4 percent against the dollar in the
past year.  While the U.S. Treasury Department hasn’t labeled Japan a
currency manipulator, it has called on the government in Tokyo
to refrain from devaluing the yen for competitive reasons.  Weakening Yen  “They’re not manipulating their exchange rate,” Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said of Japan in testimony before
the House Financial Services Committee on July 17. “What
they’re doing is engaging in strong domestic monetary policy
measures, trying to break the deflation that they’ve had for
about 15 years. And a side effect of that is that the yen has
weakened.”  Bernanke said it was in the U.S. interest to see Japan’s
economy improve.  Levin said the elimination of U.S. tariffs on Japanese auto
imports, which President  Barack Obama ’s administration and Japan
announced in April as part of a plan to bring Japan into the
talks, should be tied to the nation opening its markets. The TPP
should also deal with future trade barriers, he said.  “If the Obama administration is serious about growing
manufacturing jobs and signing a high-standard Trans-Pacific
Partnership trade agreement, it will adopt these ideas as its
bottom-line negotiating position moving forward,” Scott Paul,
president of the Alliance for American Manufacturing, said in a
statement. The Washington-based, non-profit group includes U.S.
manufacturers and the United Steelworkers union.  LNG Exports  Japan’s inclusion in the talks may make it easier for the
nation to import liquefied natural gas from the U.S., according
to the Sierra Club, a San Francisco-based environmental group
that opposes hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, for natural gas.  Companies including Dominion Resources Inc. of Richmond,
 Virginia , are awaiting Energy Department approval to export the
product. Gas exports to most nations with U.S. free-trade
agreements are largely exempt from Energy Department clearance.  The TPP may weaken the U.S. government’s ability to manage
exports of LNG, according to Ilana Solomon, the Sierra’s Club’s
trade representative in Washington.  “American families and communities cannot afford the
unchecked exports of fracked gas to Japan,” she said. The group
has said fracking jeopardizes water and air quality.  Other nations negotiating the trade pact are Australia,
Brunei,  Canada ,  Chile ,  Malaysia ,  Mexico , New Zealand,  Peru ,
Singapore and  Vietnam .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  