-- Dollar Falls on Signs of Economic Cooling; Canada Currency Gains
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-07-23T21:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/currency-volatility-slides-to-10-week-low-as-fed-bets-stabilize.html
The dollar fell against the majority
of its 16 most-traded peers after an unexpected slump in a
regional manufacturing index bolstered the argument for the
 Federal Reserve  to delay winding down its bond-buying program.  The yen reversed losses versus the dollar after U.S.
housing-price gains trailed forecasts. Data since a July 5
report said U.S. payrolls rose more than forecast have shown
housing starts and existing-home sales unexpectedly fell. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress last week it was “too
early” to decide to begin tapering asset purchases.  Canada ’s
dollar climbed after the nation’s retail sales jumped.  “The growth data, aside from employment, have been showing
signs of weakness,” Brian Daingerfield, a  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit, said in a telephone interview.
“There is some focus on the weaker data, and with Bernanke out
of the way, squaring up of positions is the name of the game in
the near term.”  The dollar depreciated 0.2 percent to 99.43 yen at 5 p.m.
 New York  time after rising 0.5 percent earlier to 100.18. The
U.S. currency declined 0.3 percent to $1.3223 per euro and
touched $1.3239, the weakest level since June 21, after gaining
0.2 percent earlier. The Japanese currency was little changed at
131.48 per euro.  The European currency extended gains versus the dollar
before data tomorrow forecast to show increases this month in
manufacturing and services in the 17-nation region.  Forint Drops  Hungary’s forint fell versus most major counterparts after
the central bank cut its main  interest rate  for a 12th
consecutive month and President Gyorgy Matolcsy said he expects
to extend monetary easing. The currency depreciated 0.5 percent
to 295.68 per euro after strengthening 0.5 percent yesterday.  Canada’s dollar climbed versus its U.S. counterpart after a
government report showed Canadian retail sales increased in May
at the fastest pace in three years. The currency strengthened
0.5 percent to C$1.0287 to the greenback.  South Africa ’s rand strengthened for a third day, advancing
1.5 percent to 9.6826 versus the dollar.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7  Volatility Index , a measure of
currency fluctuations, declined to 9.22 percent and touched 9.18
percent, the lowest intraday level since May 9. The gauge has
dropped for nine consecutive days, the longest stretch of
declines since July 2012. It touched 11.96 percent, the highest
this year, on June 24.  Volatility ‘Fading’  Volatility “has been fading since the beginning of the
month, and it’s continuing that process,”  Sebastien Galy , a
senior foreign-exchange strategist in New York at Societe
Generale SA, said in a telephone interview. “It’s been fading
for two main reasons. No. 1 is Bernanke trying to push a dovish
angle, and No. 2 is a less bearish angle on  China .”  The yen weakened against most of its major peers after
Chinese news organizations reported Premier  Li Keqiang ’s
government sees 7 percent growth as the minimum acceptable pace
of growth, signaling the nation will act to support the economy
if needed.  The dollar erased a gain versus the yen after the Fed bank
of Richmond’s factory index slid to negative 11 for July.
Readings greater than would zero signal expansion in the region
that includes the Carolinas, the  District of Columbia ,  Maryland ,
 Virginia  and  West Virginia . Economists in a Bloomberg survey
projected a reading of 9.  U.S. house  prices  rose 0.7 percent in May from April,
compared with a 0.8 percent gain forecast in a Bloomberg survey,
Federal Housing Finance Agency figures showed. Other data this
month showed housing starts in the U.S. fell in June to the
lowest in almost a year, existing-home sales decreased and
retail sales rose less than forecast. The Labor Department
reported U.S. employers added 195,000 jobs in June.  Fed Purchases  The Fed buys $85 billion of debt each month as part of its
quantitative-easing stimulus to cap borrowing costs, a strategy
that typically debases currencies. It has held the benchmark
 interest-rate  target unchanged at between zero and 0.25 percent
since 2008 to support the economy.  A Bloomberg survey showed more economists are predicting
the U.S. central bank will trim its monthly bond buying by $20
billion in September.  Bernanke said last week in two days of congressional
testimony that the purchases “are by no means on a preset
course” and may be reduced more quickly or expanded as economic
conditions warrant. He said reducing bond-buying wouldn’t
constitute policy-tightening.  ‘Bearish Factor’  “The market is getting used to the idea that tapering is
not tightening,” said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International in  London . “The main message is
accommodation, and that’s a bearish factor for the dollar.”  The U.S. currency has risen 4.2 percent this year among 10
developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has advanced 4.5 percent, while the
yen has been the worst performer, dropping 10 percent.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $23 billion, compared with $25 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $4.3 billion, the
largest share of trades at 19 percent. Sterling-dollar options
totaled $3.3 billion, or 14 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 36 percent less than the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Pound-dollar options trading
was 66 percent more than average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  