-- Czech Central Bank Chief Wouldn’t Mind Monetary Easing
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-07-23T11:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/czech-central-bank-chief-wouldn-t-mind-monetary-easing.html
Czech central bank Governor Miroslav Singer said he wouldn’t mind “significantly relaxed” monetary
conditions as disinflationary risks “seem to be
materializing.”  The Ceska Narodni Banka would keep interest rates at
 effectively zero  “for quite a long future” even if monetary
conditions were “relatively more relaxed,” Singer said in an
interview at the bank’s headquarters in downtown Prague today.
Without any room to cut borrowing costs, the next tool policy
makers may use for easing is weakening the koruna, he said.  “By this I’m saying that I wouldn’t mind monetary
conditions being significantly relaxed,” Singer said. “If
we’re going to do it, we’re going to do it through exchange-rate
interventions; we’ve said it many times before.”  The central bank is in uncharted territory after cutting
the benchmark interest rate three times last year to 0.05
percent as the $196 billion  economy  fell into the longest
 recession  on record. Czech policy makers are debating whether
the first currency interventions in more than a decade are
needed to further relax monetary conditions and fulfill the
bank’s price-stability mandate.  The koruna weakened 0.4 percent to 26.019 per euro at 12:50
p.m. in  Prague , the worst performance today among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It has declined 5.7
percent since Sept. 17, a day before Singer signaled for the
first time that the bank may sell its currency. The yield on the
Czech government 10-year koruna bonds rose 2 basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, 2.03 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Koruna Discussions  The Czech currency is at the center of policy discussions
as its depreciation would help boost the competitiveness of
exports and make imports more expensive. The central bank’s next
monetary-policy meeting is Aug. 1.  The economy has shrunk for six consecutive quarters through
March as households curbed spending and euro-area crisis
weakened demand for the country’s exports, including cars and
auto parts.  While some indicators are showing signs that the Czech
economy is starting to bottom out, the “qualitative picture”
hasn’t changed much since the central bank’s last policy meeting
in June, Singer said. A lot of “anti-inflationary risks seem to
be materializing,” he said.  Inflation (CZCPYOY)  accelerated in June more than the central bank
had forecast, to 1.6 percent from 1.3 percent in the previous
month. Price growth relevant for monetary policy, adjusted for
the primary impact of changes in indirect taxes, quickened to
0.9 percent from a year earlier after 0.6 percent in May,
remaining below the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent
tolerance band.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  