-- Czech Central Bank Chief Signals Preference for Easing
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-07-24T15:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/czech-central-bank-chief-signals-preference-for-easing.html
Czech central bank Governor Miroslav Singer signaled his preference for more monetary easing as risks
of inflation missing the bank’s target eclipse signs of an
economic revival.  The Ceska Narodni Banka would keep zero  interest rates 
“for quite a long future” even if monetary conditions were
“relatively more relaxed,” Singer said yesterday in an
interview at the  bank ’s headquarters in downtown Prague. With no
room left to cut borrowing costs, weakening the koruna is the
next tool policy makers may use for easing, he said.  As monetary authorities around the globe exhaust
traditional rate cuts and embrace guidance on the path of
interest rates, Czech policy makers are vowing to keep near-zero
borrowing costs to maintain stimulus. With the economy showing
some signs of rebounding from a record-long recession, the
central bank is debating whether koruna sales are warranted for
the first time in more than a decade to fulfill its price-stability mandate.  “From my point of view, if monetary conditions were
relatively clearly relaxed, I would still say that we are going
to keep rates at zero in the long-term future,” Singer said.
“And I would still say there would be a very low likelihood of
any inflationary pressures materializing within the monetary-policy horizon.”  The  koruna  weakened as much as 0.5 percent yesterday,
trading little changed at 25.944 per euro as of 3:34 p.m. in
Prague. It has lost 5.4 percent since Sept. 17, a day before
Singer said for the first time that the bank may sell its
currency.  Below ECB  The central bank is in uncharted territory after cutting
the two-week repurchase rate three times last year to 0.05
percent, almost a half point below the  European Central Bank ’s
benchmark, as the $196 billion  economy  fell into the longest
 recession  since 1996 when current records started.  The Czech currency shifted to the center of policy
discussions as its depreciation would help boost the
competitiveness of exports and make imports more expensive. The
central bank’s next monetary-policy meeting is Aug. 1.  “Honestly, I will start thinking about it next week,”
said Singer. “But it seems that for me the question is only how
strong the pressures for further relaxing the monetary
conditions are. We always smooth out our decisions.”  Economy Contracts  The economy has  shrunk  for six consecutive quarters through
March as households curbed spending and euro-area crisis
weakened demand for the country’s exports, including cars and
auto parts.  While some indicators are showing signs that the Czech
economy is starting to bottom out, the “qualitative picture”
hasn’t changed much since the central bank’s last policy meeting
in June, Singer said. A lot of “anti-inflationary risks seem to
be materializing,” he said.  Retail (CZRSYOY)  sales unexpectedly increased for a second month in
June, and a gauge of Czech manufacturing performance rose for a
third month. Even as the economic slump deepened in the first
quarter, gross domestic product data showed that  consumer
spending  rebounded.  Inflation accelerated in June more than the central bank
had forecast, to 1.6 percent from 1.3 percent in the previous
month. Price growth relevant for monetary policy, adjusted for
the primary impact of changes in indirect taxes, quickened to
0.9 percent from a year earlier after 0.6 percent in May.  ‘Disinflationary Risks’  “There are still relatively sizable disinflationary risks
stemming from the situation in the  euro zone  in general,” said
Singer. “But also there is a possibility that commodity prices
may not go up at all, steel prices are under pressure; there are
new developments with energy sources, for instance. So yes, I
can imagine a lot of things going against  inflation. (CZCPYOY) ”  Even as the central bank targets headline price growth at 2
percent, with a 1-3 percent tolerance band, Singer and other
board members look at monetary-policy inflation alongside other
data when considering policy moves, he said.  At the previous policy meeting on June 27, the seven-member
board agreed that the need for monetary easing had increased,
minutes from the meeting showed. Singer declined to say
yesterday whether he was among those advocating an immediate
start of interventions at the June meeting.  Before last year’s rate cuts started in June 2012, Singer
had backed a motion for an earlier reduction, just to be
outvoted by the majority of the board. While monetary easing may
be warranted again, it isn’t certain the move will get enough
support, according to Nomura International Plc.  ‘Very Split’  The bank board is “very split” and Singer may have only
“limited convening power” to sway other members, Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura in  London , said in an e-mail
yesterday.  “We have some members who are uncertain of the point of
intervention, others who are more hawkish on the outlook,”
Montalto said. “We have for a long time been nowhere near
intervention as a result.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  