-- Delhi Assaults on Women Rise as Verdict Due in Fatal Rape
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-07-24T06:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/delhi-assaults-on-women-rise-as-verdict-due-in-fatal-rape-case.html
The gang rape and subsequent death
of a young medical student seven months ago united  India  in
outrage and brought promises from the country’s leaders to curb
attacks on women. That hasn’t made New Delhi any safer.  On the eve of the first verdict in the trials of five men
charged with the allegedly drunken December assault aboard a bus
in the capital, the outpouring of emotion has faded. The number
of rapes reported in the capital has more than doubled,
according to police. While there may be a greater willingness to
record such crimes before potentially hostile authorities, the
jump also reflects entrenched sexual violence.  “Women in India just aren’t safe,” said Shreya Sharma,
20, near the spot where the Dec. 16 assault ended with the naked
and beaten student and the male friend who accompanied her to
the cinema being dumped by the roadside. “I’m careful not to be
out late at night.”  Preliminary police reports reveal the predatory nature of
assaults within the last month: Two women raped over 90 minutes
by as many as seven men after hiring a car outside a mall on the
city’s outskirts; a woman abducted along with her two-year-old
son and gang raped in a moving car; three truck drivers accused
of raping a 13-year-old deaf-mute girl near her home.  Against that backdrop, a magistrate at the Juvenile Justice
Board in  New Delhi  is tomorrow scheduled to release his judgment
on one of the bus-rape defendants, who was under 18 at the time
of the attack and can’t be named. A separate trial of four adult
men is expected to end in about a month. A fifth man, Ram Singh,
committed suicide in jail in March, according to an official
inquiry.  Quick Justice  While the verdicts will address demands for swift justice,
the fight for security and equality for women is inching
forward, said  Indu Agnihotri , director of the Centre for Women’s
Development Studies in the capital.  “We are not back to square one,” she said yesterday.
“But many of the demands that the women’s movement was making
before the attack are unmet -- fair treatment from the justice
system and the accountability of police.”  If found guilty, the juvenile faces a maximum three-year
jail sentence, a punishment criticized by some lawmakers as
unduly lenient. India’s top court agreed yesterday to hear a
petition from the leader of the Janata Party, Subramanian Swamy,
that seeks fresh  interpretation  of laws on criminal
responsibility so longer sentences can be considered for people
under the age of 18.  Furious Response  Even in a country accustomed to violence against women, the
death of the 23-year-old student -- whose name can’t be
published under laws forbidding the identification of rape
victims -- triggered a furious response.  Her life story -- a journey from small town India to the
big city in search of an education and opportunity -- resonated
with millions seeking to break down barriers to social progress
and escape gender roles that contribute to a third of the
country’s women being unable to  read or write  and the most  child
marriages  in the world.  Protests and vigils followed, while politicians promised
action. Official New Year celebrations were scaled back. Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  addressed the woman’s family as he
called for introspection.  “I want to tell them and the nation that while she may
have lost her battle for life, it is up to us all to ensure that
her death will not have been in vain,” Singh  said .  Tougher Laws  The government toughened laws on sexual assault,
criminalizing stalking and voyeurism, and allowing for capital
punishment if an attack leaves the victim in a vegetative state.  Delhi police announced plans for a desk staffed by female
officers at each station to encourage women to report assaults.
It became a criminal offense for police to fail to register a
rape claim, a frequent complaint.  The city reports more than double the rapes of second-ranked Mumbai, and sexual assaults jumped more than 47 percent
in the last five years, according to  police .  In the first six months of 2013, reported rapes in New
Delhi soared to 806 from 330 in the same period a year earlier,
according to Deepak Mishra, special commissioner of the police
force. Molestation cases rose six-fold to 1,780.  “Our response systems have improved and if that has led to
increased registration, we don’t mind,” Neeraj Kumar, Delhi
police commissioner, told the CNN-IBN television channel July
22. “Offenders are being brought” to justice, he said.  ‘Every Home’  More women have a greater awareness of their rights, said
 Jyotsna Chatterjee , director of the Joint Women’s Programme, a
New Delhi advocacy group. Still, “the mindset of society has
not really changed,” she said, and a battle must be fought in
“every home.”  Chauvinism runs deep. Lawmakers participating in a March
debate in parliament blamed attacks on reality television,
mixed-sex schooling and erotic cultural statues.  “You’re saying girls shouldn’t be followed,” Sharad Yadav, a leader of the fifth largest political party Janata Dal
(United), said. “Who among us has not followed girls? When you
want to talk to a woman, she doesn’t give you a chance at first.
For that, you have to put in a lot of effort.”  Anisha Kumar, a 29-year-old teacher who joined protests
after the December attack, said her optimism that it would mark
a turning point has evaporated. Every day men harass her and
make jokes laced with sexual innuendo, she said. She dresses
conservatively and doesn’t travel at night.  “I’m not an isolated case,” Kumar said as she shopped in
New Delhi. “This is the story of every Indian woman.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  