-- Democratic Pollster Sees Republican 2016 Weakness as Brand Lags
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2013-07-23T18:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/democratic-pollster-sees-republican-2016-weakness-as-brand-lags.html
The  Republican Party  is losing
ground with moderates and is increasingly dominated by social
and fiscal conservatives, endangering its chance to capture the
White House in 2016, according to a Democratic pollster who is
studying the rival party.  “It would be hard” for a Republican to win the next
presidential race, said Stan Greenberg, the chairman of
Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research and a founder of the
Democratic-leaning  Democracy Corps . He presented the first
research of the polling group’s “Republican Party Project” to
reporters today at a Washington breakfast sponsored by the
Christian Science Monitor.  Republicans “probably have to go through another
election” before they could elect a president, Greenberg said.  His research reflects what many strategists in both parties
see as a structural challenge for Republicans after they failed
to regain the White House and control of the Senate in November.
The  Republican National Committee  began a process of self-examination that yielded a report in March recommending changes
to broaden its voter base and win national elections.  One central problem for Republicans is the low number of
its voters -- just one quarter -- who identify themselves as
“moderate,” Greenberg said, citing his national survey this
month of 950 voters in the 2012 elections and 841 respondents
who will likely vote in 2014.  ‘Disaffected’ Moderates  “There is a group that is disaffected with its own party
and has almost no ability to control the future of the party,
given the strength of the evangelical and religious segments”
as well as those who identify with the anti-tax  Tea Party ,
Greenberg said.  “It becomes very hard for those moderates to find a place,
and so the divisions between the Republican Party and the rest
of the country -- in fact, the divisions within the party itself
-- are very stark,” he said.  Among the key groups within the Republican Party, the poll
found 30 percent are evangelical Christians, 17 percent are
religiously observant, attending church at least weekly, and 22
percent identify with the Tea Party.  At the same time, Greenberg said he still sees the race for
Congress in 2014 as a dead heat and Democrats as insufficiently
aggressive in working to exploit the problems for Republicans
illustrated in the poll.  Democrats ‘Defensive’  “I don’t know what the odds are, but there’s some chance
that the House gets more competitive than now, and that the
Senate breaks” in Democrats’ favor, Greenberg said. “Democrats
have been on the defensive and acting like Republicans are in
control,” he added, describing the goal of his new project as
“to push Democrats to be more active” in defining Republicans
and setting the terms of political debate.  The survey, in line with other recent national polls, found
fewer voters identifying themselves as Republicans and the party
suffering from an unpopular brand. It also found Republican
voters are less enthusiastic about their party than Democrats
are about theirs.  About two-thirds of Republicans had a positive view of
their party, including one-fifth who had a “very warm” opinion
of it. Among Democrats, four-fifths felt positively about their
party, including two-fifths with a very favorable view.  Republicans have no advantage among any generational group,
and Democrats have large edges with millennials and baby
boomers, Greenberg’s study indicated. Republicans are strong in
rural and exurban areas and with married voters, while Democrats
dominate in suburban and metropolitan areas and with unmarried
voters.  Competitive States  The research will continue with more polls and focus groups
in politically competitive states, including  North Carolina ,
 Virginia  and  Colorado , Greenberg said.  The poll shows Republican Senator Rand Paul of  Kentucky 
well-positioned to capture the party’s presidential nomination,
with 52 percent of Tea Party identifiers viewing him very
favorably. The 2008 vice presidential nominee, Sarah Palin, a
former Alaska governor, is popular with 31 percent of
evangelical voters, New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  is
popular with 23 percent of religiously observant Republicans,
and former Florida Governor  Jeb Bush  is viewed very favorably by
17 percent of the party’s moderates.  Bush, the brother of former President  George W. Bush  and
son of former President  George H.W. Bush , should try to expand
Republicans’ moderate bloc, Greenberg said.  “If I’m the Jeb Bush, or whoever will play that role, I
wouldn’t try to move to the right to show that I’m really on the
right,” Greenberg said. “I would own, I would begin with that
base.”  Paul’s Supporters  Paul, on the other hand, already has a strong group of core
supporters, he added.  “There is a majority base of the party he can run from,”
Greenberg said.  The strongest Republican blocs are defined by a dislike of
President  Barack Obama  that dwarfs that of other groups,
according to the survey. It found that 93 percent of Tea Party
identifiers, 85 percent of evangelicals, and 61 percent of those
who are religiously observant strongly disapprove of the
president.  By contrast, just over half of Republican moderates
strongly disapproved, as well as two-thirds of Republican-leaning independents and two-fifths of independents.  The Republican base is less disdainful of, yet still
disproportionately negative toward former Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , a potential Democratic candidate in 2016.  She was rated very unfavorably by three-quarters of Tea
Party Republicans, two-thirds of evangelicals, and 46 percent of
those who are religiously observant. About a third of
Republicans and two-thirds of Republican-leaning independents
had a strongly negative view of Clinton, compared with about a
fifth of independents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  