-- Detroit Fight Tips Toward Orr Thanks to Fast Filing
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-07-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/detroit-fight-tips-toward-orr-thanks-to-fast-filing.html
Challengers to Detroit’s bankruptcy
suffered a setback when a federal judge rejected an argument by
public pension-fund officials that a state court must rule on
the validity of the case before hearings can begin.  Kevyn Orr, the city’s emergency manager, rushed its
$18 billion bankruptcy petition into federal court on July 18
just minutes before a state judge could stop him. His quick
filing may forestall any state-court claims, said  Peter Henning ,
a professor at  Wayne State University Law School  in Detroit.  “The usual rule of thumb in bankruptcy is that federal
trumps state,” Henning said in a phone interview. “Winning the
race to the courthouse is very important because of the
automatic stay on lawsuits a bankruptcy filing delivers.”  Detroit sought  bankruptcy protection  after decades of
population decline and dwindling factory jobs left it too poor
to pay bondholders, retired cops and current city workers. U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Steven W. Rhodes has refused to delay the case
and scheduled an initial hearing for tomorrow.  A municipality that has filed for bankruptcy is difficult
to dislodge, especially when it has the governor’s backing, as
is the case in  Michigan , said  Mark Schwartz , a former bond
lawyer who unsuccessfully tried to help Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania , restructure debt in bankruptcy.  Schwarz lost his battle after Pennsylvania’s governor,
Harrisburg’s mayor and creditors lined up against him and the
city council, which had authorized the petition under the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code ’s Chapter 9, which is reserved for
municipalities. Schwarz said Detroit is different.  ‘Same Side’  “Everybody is on the same side in Detroit,” he said. “In
Pennsylvania, you didn’t have that. It’s a huge advantage.”  Schwartz, who was never paid for his work, was also the
only lawyer for the city council. Detroit has a team of lawyers
and financial advisers that includes the attorney who oversaw
the 1994 bankruptcy of Orange County,  California .  Three cases related to the  Detroit  bankruptcy are pending
in state court in Ingham County, Michigan. Circuit Judge
Rosemarie Aquilina in Lansing ruled on the first two, finding
Detroit’s Chapter 9 filing violated the state’s  constitution ,
which says public pension benefits are a contractual obligation
that can’t be diminished or impaired. A hearing is set for July
29 to consider the third case, filed by two city pension funds.  “It would be inappropriate for us to comment because of
the pending litigation at the state level,” said William
Nowling, Orr’s spokesman.  Conflicts Arise  Conflicts between state law and the federal bankruptcy code
will arise as the case moves forward, said attorney James E. Spiotto, head of the bankruptcy group at Chapman & Cutler LLP in
 Chicago . Spiotto, who writes and lectures about Chapter 9, isn’t
involved in the Detroit case.  Rhodes isn’t likely to cut short Detroit’s bankruptcy
before going through the normal process of determining the
city’s eligibility, Spiotto said. That can take months as each
side gathers evidence, interviews witnesses and prepares for a
trial.  In asking Rhodes for a delay, pension officials cited a
July 19 ruling by Aquilina, who criticized republican Governor
 Rick Snyder  for “overreaching” when he authorized Orr to rush
the city into bankruptcy.  “We can’t just start carving out exceptions to the state
constitution because it’s expedient,” Ronald King, a lawyer for
the challengers, said in an interview yesterday. “We just need
to let the Michigan courts decide.”  Can’t Do  Aquilina ordered Snyder to withdraw the case, something the
governor couldn’t do even if he wanted, said Kenneth Klee, the
lawyer leading the bankruptcy restructuring of Jefferson County,
 Alabama . A federal judge would have to agree to dismiss it, he
said.  Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette has appealed
Aquilina’s order, and the pensions have asked Rhodes to put
Detroit’s first appearance in court on hold while the appeal
goes forward. Larry Dubin, a professor at the University of
Detroit Mercy School of Law, said the pensions shouldn’t expect
their challenge to survive.  “While it will be more receptive than the federal
 bankruptcy court  will be, the Michigan Court of Appeals would be
reluctant to affirm that decision,” Dubin said.  Legal challenges to the process that led Snyder to appoint
an emergency manager won favorable rulings from Ingham County
judges, only to be rebuffed by the appellate court last year.  Approval Required  County Circuit Court Judge William Collette on March 20,
2012, ruled that his approval was required for implementation of
any agreement between Detroit and a state financial review team
to address the city’s financial crisis.  The court of appeals reversed him three days later,
ordering Collette to “take no further actions,” including
holding hearings, in the case. Two months later, the appeals
court reversed Collette’s decision that the Detroit financial
review board is required to hold open meetings.  A second Ingham County judge,  Joyce Draganchuk , issued a
temporary restraining order in April 2012 barring the review
team from meeting after a union official claimed its term of
office had expired the prior month. The appeals court reversed
two days later and ordered Draganchuk to dismiss the suit.  This time, the appeals court may avoid making decisions
altogether, Dubin said. “The court may sit tight and see what
the federal bankruptcy judge does.”  Good Faith  By the time Rhodes holds a hearing on whether the city can
remain in bankruptcy, the pensions may be able to argue that
Orr’s quick filing shows the city didn’t negotiate in good faith
as required under Chapter 9, Spiotto said.  A reversal of Aquilina’s order by the appeals court may not
be the end of the retirees’ claim that the state constitution
bars cutting pensions, it just may mean that the federal judge
will decide the issue, Henning said.  “This is all a fight over who’s going to decide the
fight,” he said.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Detroit at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net 
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  