-- Deutsche Bank Said to Merge Debt Groups as Top Trader Leaves
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-07-24T15:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/deutsche-bank-said-to-merge-debt-groups-as-head-trader-departs.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is consolidating
two debt-trading groups in London as it seeks to cut costs and
riskier holdings, leading its head of European investment-grade
bond trading to leave.  Vassilis Paschopoulos departed this month as continental
Europe’s biggest bank combined its investment-grade debt and
asset-backed securities trading units, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter. The merged unit will be led by
Nick Waring, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the moves haven’t been made public. Separately, two
other credit traders, Alexis Serero and James Nowak, left the
London office with plans to join competitors in September.  Nick Bone, a spokesman for the lender, said he couldn’t
comment on the changes. Paschopoulos couldn’t be reached.  “These things tend to be driven by a combination of
capital and cost cutting,” said Steve Hussey, head of financial
institutions credit research in London at AllianceBernstein
Ltd., a unit of  AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB) , which manages the
equivalent of about $443 billion in assets. “All investment
banks are under intense capital pressure but Deutsche Bank
especially is at the sharp end given the growing focus on
leverage ratios. It has a huge balance sheet, with a huge
inventory, derivatives, repo.”  Electronic Trading  Deutsche Bank needs to raise 12.3 billion euros ($16.3
billion) in capital or reduce  assets  by 409 billion euros to
comply with a proposal on leverage by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision, analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a
July 4 note to clients. The Frankfurt-based bank’s equity
accounted for 2.8 percent of its assets at the end of March, the
lowest value of Europe’s major banks after  France ’s  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , data compiled by Bloomberg Industries show.  The lender combined its investment-grade credit and
interest-rates units in North America last year under Tom Hartnett as it emphasizes its electronic debt-trading platform
and caters to investors who seek to buy both forms of debt.  Deutsche Bank has  gained  11.3 percent this year, including
reinvested dividends, trading at 35.92 euros today. That
compares with an 18.6 percent return on the MSCI World
Financials Index through yesterday.  Paschopoulos left Deutsche Bank after returning to the firm
in 2011 from UBS AG, according to  records  maintained by the
Financial Conduct Authority. He had an earlier six-year stint at
the German lender before leaving in 2010.  Citigroup Hire  Serero will join  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s London office in
September as head of credit-default swaps index trading in
Europe, Capucine Boncenne, a spokeswoman for the New York-based
bank, said in a telephone interview. He will report to Tim Gately, head of credit trading in Europe, the Middle East and
 Africa .  Nowak, an investment-grade bond trader, plans to join
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s London office in September, according
to two people familiar with the matter. Tiffany Galvin, a
Goldman Sachs spokeswoman, and Nowak said they couldn’t comment.  Deutsche Bank said in September that it would cut 4.5
billion euros of costs annually through 2015 by firing bankers,
merging units and moving support staff to lower-cost locations.
It unveiled a plan to cut almost 2,000 jobs last year, including
814 at its investment-banking and trading arm.  Trading Revenue  Antoine Cornut, who oversaw flow-credit trading in the
Americas and Europe, left Deutsche Bank about a year ago and
started his own hedge fund, while Nicholas Pappas, former co-head of flow credit trading for North America, left in September
and joined Goldman Sachs as a managing director in  London .
Hartnett was named to oversee investment-grade credit in North
America in addition to interest-rate products in the region.  Revenue from trading debt and other products, the biggest
source of income at the firm’s investment-banking unit, dropped
14 percent to 2.73 billion euros in the first quarter from the
same period a year earlier, company  filings  show. That compares
with a 12 percent increase in equity sales and trading in the
period, according to the filings.  Investment-grade bonds globally lost 1.9 percent during the
first six months of this year, the greatest decline for the
period since at least 1997, after gaining 45.5 percent in the
four years after 2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. Yields on the debt are rising as the Federal Reserve, the
central bank of the world’s biggest economy, considers slowing
unprecedented stimulus that has pumped $2.6 trillion into the
financial system since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008.  High Yield  Primary dealers that do business with the central bank have
reduced their  net holdings  of investment-grade bonds to $6.7
billion as of July 10, almost the same amount as their
inventories of speculative-grade notes, which are gaining 3.4
percent this year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index and Fed
data show.  The high-yield bond market, with securities rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at
Standard & Poor’s, is less than one-fourth the size of
outstanding higher-rated corporate debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  