-- Discover Profit Beats Estimates as Credit-Card Spending Climbs
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-07-24T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/discover-profit-beats-estimates-as-credit-card-spending-climbs.html
Discover Financial Services (DFS) ,
operator of the fourth-biggest U.S. bank-card network, reported
a second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as
customer spending increased.  Net income  rose 15 percent to $602 million, or $1.20 a
share, from $525 million, or 99 cents, in the same period a year
earlier, the Riverwoods, Illinois-based company said yesterday
in a statement. The average estimate of 23 analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg was $1.15 a share.  Discover is boosting  dividends  and repurchasing shares as
Chief Executive Officer David Nelms wrings value from the firm’s
global network, signing payment-processing partnerships with
 EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal and  SAP AG (SAP) ’s Ariba. The company also
benefited as overdue loan payments fell to record lows.  “Discover’s strong overall results were driven by
profitable growth in direct banking and continued improvement in
credit,” Nelms, 52, said in the statement.  Credit-card write-offs declined 2 basis points from the
previous quarter to 2.34 percent as loans at least 30 days
overdue dropped to 1.58 percent, according to the statement.  Discover climbed 29 cents to $51 in extended trading
yesterday after results were announced. The  shares  gained 32
percent this year through the close of regular trading,
outpacing the 27 percent advance for the 81-company Standard &
Poor’s 500 Financials Index.  Card Purchases  Revenue rose 9.4 percent to $2.04 billion in the second
quarter from a year earlier, beating the $2.03 billion average
estimate of analysts in the Bloomberg survey. Discover card
purchases increased 4.4 percent to $27.6 billion and card loans
rose 4.8 percent to $49.8 billion. Net interest income increased
8.8 percent $1.43 billion.  Spending on Discover’s Pulse debit network slid 3 percent
to $40.1 billion as steps taken by competitors crimped revenue,
the company said. Visa Inc. and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the two biggest
U.S. payment networks, dominate the industry, and processing
rules adopted after passage of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act have made
it more difficult for Discover to compete with its larger
rivals, Nelms said in a phone interview.  “We’re in an all-out effort to put in place some
additional strategies to fight back for what’s been thrown at
us,” he said. “I expect it to be a negative growth year, which
is always concerning and is not what we’ve historically had.”  Student Lending  Nelms has acquired mortgage and student-lending businesses
as he seeks to make Discover less reliant on credit cards, which
provide most of the firm’s revenue. Private  student loans 
increased 5.4 percent in the second quarter to $7.93 billion.
Personal loans climbed more than 20 percent to $3.51 billion.  Net interest margin, the difference between what a bank
pays in deposits and charges for loans, increased 16 basis
points to 9.44 percent from a year earlier, Discover said. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The lender released $78 million from reserves it had set
aside to cover losses on soured loans, more than double the
amount estimated by Moshe Orenbuch, an analyst with Credit
Suisse Group AG.  “We’re approaching a level where card charge-offs are as
good as they can possibly get,” Nelms said on the call with
analysts. “I wouldn’t be counting on a lot more reserve
releases.”  The payment-services unit posted a $21 million pretax loss
as expenses jumped from a year earlier, including $55 million of
costs tied to supporting Diners Club International franchises,
according to the statement. Discover said last month that profit
would be reduced because it had to acquire some businesses in
 Europe  and regulators revoked the license of the Diners Club
franchise in Slovenia.  Discover repurchased $340 million of shares during the
three months ended June 30. The quarterly  dividend  increased 43
percent to 20 cents in May and has doubled since last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  