-- Dollar Near One-Month Low Versus Euro; Aussie, Yen Drop on China
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-07-24T06:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/dollar-near-one-month-low-versus-euro-amid-slowing-u-s-data.html
The dollar traded 0.3 percent from a
one-month low versus the euro as weaker U.S. economic indicators
bolstered the argument for the  Federal Reserve  to delay a
reduction to its bond-buying program.  The euro was supported before data predicted to show
services and factory  output  in the region contracted at the
slowest pace in more than a year. Currencies of Asia-Pacific
nations including the Australian dollar and yen dropped versus
the greenback after a private report showed  China ’s
manufacturing shrank at a faster pace. The Indonesian rupiah
slumped to a four-year low.  “Since last week, U.S. housing data has consistently
disappointed,” said Takeshi Yoshimatsu, an assistant manager in
Tokyo at Ueda Harlow Ltd., which provides margin-trading
services. “If that trend continues today, expectations of a
near-term start to Fed tapering will be pushed back, increasing
pressure for dollar selling.”  The dollar was 0.1 percent higher at $1.3204 per euro as of
7:01 a.m. in  London  and yesterday touched $1.3239, the weakest
level since June 21. It rose 0.4 percent to 99.81 yen, following
a 1.2 percent, two-day drop. The Japanese currency slipped 0.2
percent to 131.79 per euro.  Sales of new U.S. homes probably  rose  1.7 percent to an
annualized pace of 484,000 last month, compared with 2.1 percent
growth in May, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey before today’s Commerce Department report.  Slowing Data  A July 22 report showed sales of previously owned homes
slid unexpectedly in June as tight supply and higher  mortgage
rates  imperiled the U.S. market’s recovery. Other data this
month revealed that housing starts fell in June to the lowest in
almost a year, and retail sales rose less than forecast.  “The market was looking at a September start to tapering
as a done deal, but now the idea that might not happen is
starting to emerge,” said Yoshitsugu Fujita, an assistant vice
president of global markets at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd.
in  New York . “I think dollar weakness could last until the U.S.
growth data next week,” he said, referring to a second-quarter
gross domestic product report due July 31.  The Fed buys $85 billion of debt each month as part of its
quantitative-easing stimulus to cap borrowing costs, a strategy
that typically debases currencies. A Bloomberg survey showed
more economists are predicting the U.S. central bank will trim
its monthly bond buying by $20 billion in September.  Purchases Flexible  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week in two days of
congressional testimony that the purchases “are by no means on
a preset course” and may be reduced more quickly or expanded as
economic conditions warrant. He said reducing bond-buying
wouldn’t constitute policy-tightening.  The U.S. currency has risen 4.4 percent this year among 10
developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has advanced 4.6 percent, while the
yen has been the worst performer, dropping more than 10 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G7  Volatility Index , a measure of
currency fluctuations, has declined to 9.11 percent, the lowest
intraday level since May 9. The gauge has dropped for nine
consecutive days, the longest stretch of declines since July
2012. It touched 11.96 percent, the highest this year, on June
24.  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the services and manufacturing industries improved
to 49.1 in July from 48.7 the previous month, London-based
Markit Economics may say today, according to economists. That
would match the level in March 2012. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  China PMI  The preliminary reading of 47.7 for a China Purchasing
Managers’ Index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics compared with the 48.2 median estimate a Bloomberg
survey. June’s final reading was 48.2.  “I expect to see countries where the economies are more
tied to China than they are to the U.S. to see currencies
weaken,” said Dominic Bryant, senior Asia economist for BNP
Paribas SA in  Hong Kong . “In China, people are just getting
continually surprised to the downside. Their model is broken.”  The total value of  Japan ’s imports and exports with China
was 2.4 trillion yen ($24.1 billion) in June, the Ministry of
Finance said today. Total trade with the U.S. stood at 1.7
trillion yen.  The rupiah declined 0.6 percent to 10,255 per dollar,
according to prices from local banks. It touched 10,276 earlier,
the weakest level since July 2009.  The Aussie dollar slid 0.5 percent to 92.54 U.S. cents and
 New Zealand ’s kiwi dropped 0.4 percent to 79.68 cents.  “On the day, we seem to be at the low end of the range,
with China-related concerns continuing to weigh on the Aussie”
said Callum Henderson, the global head of currency research at
Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore . “On a six- to nine-month
view, we continue to expect the Australian dollar to be lower.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Buckland in  Tokyo  at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  