-- Drake & Scull Jumps to Record on Building Pipeline: Dubai Mover
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-07-23T11:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/drake-scull-jumps-to-record-on-building-pipeline-dubai-mover.html
Drake & Scull International PJSC (DSI) 
surged to a record on bets a growing construction contract
pipeline in the  United Arab Emirates  would help the Dubai-based
company double second-quarter profit.  Drake & Scull, which supplies engineering services to the
 construction industry , soared 8.4 percent to 1.16 dirhams, the
strongest since the stock was listed in March 2009, at the close
in Dubai. Volume jumped to about 259 million shares, almost six
times the three-month daily average and the most on the
benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) , which rose 0.5 percent.  The company’s contract wins have picked up as  Arabtec
Holding Co. (ARTC) , the U.A.E.’s biggest construction company, benefits
from a property-market recovery. Shares of Drake & Scull have
rallied 17 percent since Arabtec granted the company on July 15
a 233 million-dirham ($63 million) contract for works at the
Fairmont Abu Dhabi Hotel complex. Drake & Scull’s second-quarter
profit will almost double to 51 million dirhams, according to
the median  estimate  of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “There may well be expectations of stronger earnings on
the back of recent contract wins,” said Amer Khan, a Dubai-based director at Shuaa Asset Management. “They have been
adding to their backlog quite well, in the UAE and especially
 Saudi Arabia .”  Last month, Drake & Scull and  Habtoor Leighton Specon  won a
522-million riyal contract for a project at the King Fahad
Medical City in the kingdom. Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest
oil exporter, is spending more than $500 billion to improve
infrastructure and industry, as well as create jobs.  Shares of Drake & Scull have rallied 65 percent this year,
compared with 58 percent for the DFM and 24 percent for Arabtec.  The company’s “healthy contracts pipeline” is boosting
the shares, said Montasser Khelifi, Dubai-based senior manager
for global markets at Quantum Investment Bank Ltd.  One analyst recommends investors buy Drake & Scull shares,
seven  say hold  and three advise on selling them, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  