-- DuPont Exploring Options for Teflon, Titanium Pigment
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-07-23T20:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/dupont-exploring-options-for-its-performance-chemicals-segment.html
DuPont Co. (DD)  is considering a spinoff
or sale of its performance chemicals unit, which makes titanium
dioxide pigment and Teflon coatings, to focus on less cyclical
products and boost shareholder returns.  DuPont, the biggest U.S. chemical maker by market value,
may pursue different paths for each business in the segment,
which had sales of $7.2 billion last year, the Wilmington,
Delaware-based company said today in a statement. The unit makes
white pigment for paints, cyanide, Freon refrigerants and Teflon
coating for nonstick pans, among other products.  “The attractive financial strength and cash-generating
capabilities of these businesses must be continuously weighed
against their higher volatility, cyclicality and lower growth
profile,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman 
said on a conference call.  Under Kullman’s leadership, DuPont has continued its shift
away from traditional commodity chemical products toward higher-margin businesses that capitalize on meeting global demand for
food, energy and security. The company acquired Danish food
ingredients and enzyme maker Danisco A/S in 2011 for about 33.4
billion kroner ($5.9 billion). DuPont sold its auto paint unit
this year for $4.9 billion.  Volatile earnings from performance chemicals prevent DuPont
from realizing the higher valuation inherent in more stable,
growing businesses such as agriculture, said Matt Arnold, a St.
Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones who has a buy rating on the
shares.  Peltz Stake?  “It makes sense to at least explore a sale and see what
kind of valuation it might fetch,” he said in an interview.  DuPont fell 0.1 percent to $57.12 at in New York. The
shares have increased 27 percent this year.  On July 17, the stock jumped 5.3 percent, the most in more
than a year, after the New York Times’s Andrew Ross Sorkin told
a CNBC investing conference that activist investor Nelson Peltz
had amassed a “very big” stake in the company.  Peltz wasn’t the impetus for DuPont disclosing its plan for
performance chemicals and Kullman hasn’t spoken to him, the
DuPont CEO said in a phone interview today.  DuPont had already been evaluating future acquisitions and
sales since completing the auto-paint sale in February and
executives are fielding “a lot of questions” on how
performance chemicals fits with DuPont, she said.  “Where does the greatest shareholder value get created?”
Kullman said in the interview. “We have to put the question to
bed.”  Titanium Prices  Performance chemicals has an estimated enterprise value of
$10.1 billion, analysts at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch said in
a July 17 note.  The segment’s second-quarter operating profit fell 56
percent because of lower prices for refrigerants, fluorpolymers
and titanium dioxide, a white pigment used in paints and
plastics. Titanium dioxide demand has begun to recover, rising
12 percent from a year earlier, the company said.  The titanium dioxide industry is going through a period of
upheaval. Princeton, New Jersey-based  Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC) 
plans to sell or spin off its unit that makes the commodity
while  Stamford , Connecticut-based  Tronox Ltd. (TROX)  said in February
it was interested in adding to its titanium dioxide assets.
Huntsman Corp., another U.S. producer, has said it wants to
participate in the industry’s consolidation.  DuPont’s second-quarter earnings fell 12 percent to $1.03
billion, or $1.11 a share, from $1.17 billion, or $1.23, a year
earlier. Excluding one-time items, the results beat by 1 cent
the $1.27 average of 19 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales fell to $9.84 billion from $9.92 billion.  Operating profit will be about 40 cents a share in the
third quarter and 60 cents in the fourth quarter, DuPont said.
That compares with the 51-cent average of estimates for third
quarter and 44 cents for the fourth.  DuPont, founded in 1802 to make gunpowder, produces
thousands of products from genetically modified seeds to Kevlar
anti-ballistic fiber.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  