-- Health Management Associates’ Board Sued Over Proxy Fight
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-07-23T21:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/health-management-associates-board-sued-over-proxy-fight.html
(Corrects spelling of fund’s name in 7th, 11th
paragraphs.)  Health Management Associates Inc. (HMA) ’s
directors are improperly trying to strong-arm investors into
rejecting a bid to replace the hospital operator’s board, a
shareholder alleged in a lawsuit.  Health Management directors are wrongfully refusing to drop
provisions tucked into lender agreements covering the company’s
$3.5 billion in debt that call for accelerated payment if the
board is removed, lawyers for a  Florida  pension fund said in the
 Delaware Chancery Court  complaint. Glenview Capital Management
LLC, which owns 14.6 percent of Health Management’s shares,
began soliciting proxy votes earlier this year to oust the board
over the firm’s  financial performance .  “HMA’s incumbent directors are threatening their own
stockholders that their exercise of the shareholder franchise to
select new directors would trigger acceleration of so much debt
that the company may not be able to survive,” lawyers for fund
said in the suit, filed today.  Health Management, which hired investment bank  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and the law firm of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP to review
strategic alternatives, is seeking a chief executive officer to
replace Gary Newsome, who said on May 28 he would leave. That
has spurred speculation the company, which runs 71 hospitals,
may be bought as the industry faces pressure to consolidate
under the 2010 health-care law.  Maryann Hodge, a spokeswoman for Naples, Florida-based
Health Management, said she couldn’t immediately comment on the
complaint.  Hospital M&A  Hospital operators are gearing up for an influx of new
customers in 2014, along with cuts to Medicare funding, under
President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act. Dallas-based Tenet
Healthcare Corp. agreed last month to buy hospital chain
Vanguard Health Systems Inc. for about $1.8 billion as it seeks
to grow in new markets.  Health Management, the fifth-largest hospital operator by
market value, set up takeover defenses after New York-based
Glenview, founded by hedge fund manager Lawrence Robbins, sought
to buy as much as $2.2 billion worth of stock, or a 75 percent
stake.  As part of those defenses, Health Management officials
contend provisions of the company’s 2011 debt agreements allow
the notes to be called if the current board is removed. Those
provisions also only can be altered by directors who put them in
place, according to the suit filed by the  town of Davie,
Florida ’s police pension plan.  While the board has the power to disable those debt
provisions, it refuses to do so, the pension fund’s lawyers said
in the filings. Health Management officials are improperly using
the provisions to pressure investors into voting against ousting
directors, the attorneys added.  Debt Provisions  In March, Delaware Chancery Judge Leo Strine ruled that
directors of  SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD) , an oil and natural-gas
producer, couldn’t use similar debt provisions to influence
investors’ proxy votes in a board fight.  Glenview officials have nominated eight directors for
Health Management’s board and urged that outside consultants
Alvarez & Marsal Inc. serve as the company’s interim managers.
The hedge fund is soliciting proxy votes from fellow investors
to replace all directors.  The case is Town of Davie Police Officers’ Pension Plan v.
Dauten, CA 8742, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 