-- EBA Big Bank Data, Collateral, Panther Fined: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-07-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/eba-big-bank-data-collateral-panther-fined-compliance.html
The European Union’s top banking
regulator will reveal data on the sovereign debt and types of
capital held by the bloc’s biggest lenders as it forgoes a
 stress test  for a second year.  The European Banking Authority, set up in 2011 to harmonize
banking rules, may publish the data as early as October and
include additional information on banks’ cross-border
investments across the EU. The agency has previously revealed
lenders’ holdings of European sovereign debt as part of annual
stress tests.  The EBA scrapped the 2013 exam in favor of a review of
lenders’ asset quality led by the  European Central Bank , which
will become the euro area’s chief banking supervisor. European
leaders last year decided that the central bank should become a
regulator in a bid to ease the currency bloc’s fiscal crisis by
breaking the link between bank solvency and national public
finances.  Eight banks failed the 2011 exams, which were criticized
for failing to catch problems at other lenders, with a combined
shortfall of 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion).  Investors expected as many as 15 banks to fail and raise 29
billion euros after assessments, according to a survey by
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The EBA yesterday told banks to hold on to the capital
raised through the past year, because it “is essential for
maintaining the flow of lending to the real economy,” Andrea
Enria, chairman of the EBA, said in an e-mailed statement.  Regulators have sought to increase transparency in banking.
Lenders face requirements to publish information about their
buffers of liquid assets to be drawn on in a crisis, under rules
proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking Standards last week.  Compliance Policy  One-Third of Banks Will Use Low-Quality Collateral If It’s Cheap  One in three financial institutions would accept “low-quality, complex and opaque” collateral to back trades provided
that it’s “cheap,” according to a survey from the operator of
 Switzerland ’s exchange and clearinghouse.  More than half -- 57 percent -- of the 60 industry
participants surveyed on behalf of  SIX Group  said that the cost
of collateral was more important than its quality. About 48
percent of the respondents answered that securitizing and
repackaging existing securities to create pools of collateral
would increase risk, possibly leading to another financial
crisis. Some 43 percent said they wanted “simple, high quality,
liquid and easy to value” collateral, the survey found.  Institutions may need as much as $6.7 trillion in
additional collateral to satisfy new bank capital rules and
swaps-clearing mandates, securities-industry consultancy
Finadium LLC said in December. The lack of cost-effective assets
to back swaps trades has prompted some market users to exchange
lower-rated securities for cash or highly rated securities, the
Concord, Massachusetts-based firm specializing in  securities
lending  and collateral management said. It described the
practice as collateral transformation.  Vanson Bourne conducted the survey on SIX Group’s behalf in
December, interviewing industry participants in the U.K.,  France 
and  Germany .  Compliance Action  Panther, Coscia Fined Over High-Frequency Trading Algorithms  Panther Energy Trading LLC and sole owner Michael Coscia
will pay $4.5 million to U.S. and U.K. regulators to resolve
allegations that they used high-frequency trading algorithms
that manipulated commodities markets.  Panther, based in  Red Bank , New Jersey, and Coscia used a
computer algorithm that placed and quickly canceled bids and
offers in futures contracts for commodities including oil,
metals,  interest rates  and foreign currencies, the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission said in a statement
yesterday. The enforcement action was the CFTC’s first under
Dodd-Frank Act authority to target disruptive trading practices.  “By placing the large buy orders, Coscia and Panther
sought to give the market the impression that there was
significant buying interest, which suggested that prices would
soon rise, raising the likelihood that other market participants
would buy from the small order Coscia and Panther were then
offering to sell,” the agency said its statement.  Panther and Coscia must pay $2.8 million in fines and
disgorgement of profits to the CFTC, $903,000 to the U.K.
Financial Conduct Authority and $800,000 in fines to CME Group
Inc., owner of the world’s largest derivatives market. The CFTC
also banned Panther and Coscia from trading for a year.  Richard Reibman, who represents Panther and Coscia as a
Chicago-based partner at Thompson Coburn LLP law firm, declined
to comment on the facts of the case. “I would say from an
industry perspective that prop trading firms are adapting to the
fact that the Dodd-Frank Act reaches beyond swaps regulation,”
he said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Courts  Morgan Drexen Says U.S. Consumer Agency Is Unconstitutional  Morgan Drexen Inc., a provider of legal support services to
lawyers, sued to block a probe by the  U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau , arguing the agency established by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 is unconstitutional.  The CFPB lacks the accountability required for a government
office by the Constitution and has the unlawful authority to
take enforcement actions involving unfair, deceptive or abusive
practices without properly defining the terms, according to the
lawsuit.  Morgan Drexen said in the complaint, filed yesterday in
federal court in  Washington , that the CFPB has claimed attorneys
working with the company are in violation of a telemarketing
sales rule because of the way they’re paid in bankruptcy cases.  The CFPB doesn’t have jurisdiction “over the law practices
of the attorneys supported by Morgan Drexen.” The company also
disputed the agency’s characterization of how firm fees are
collected, according to the complaint.  The case is Morgan Drexen v. Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, 13-cv-01112, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  Miami Denies SEC Lawsuit Claim of Fraud in Bond Offerings  The city of Miami denied claims in a lawsuit by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that it engaged in  securities
fraud  with municipal bond offerings by exaggerating the health
of its general fund.  The disputed transactions, carried out during the 2007 and
2008 fiscal years, were disclosed fully, complied with
accounting rules and were approved by outside auditors,
 Florida ’s biggest city said yesterday in a statement. The
transactions were made “to address budgetary shortfalls,”
during the global financial crisis, according to the statement.  The SEC sued Miami and an ex-budget director July 19 as
part of a three-year crackdown on state and local governments
for not providing bond investors with accurate information about
pension liabilities.  Illinois  and New Jersey settled with the
agency after similar investigations.  The case is SEC v. City of Miami, 1:13-cv-22600, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  Interviews  Burns, Kaufman Comment on SEC Pursuit of SAC’s Cohen  Douglas Burns, a former federal prosecutor, talked about
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s administrative
action against SAC Capital Advisors LP founder  Steven Cohen .  Burns said the probe of Cohen is like a “poker game.”  He spoke with  Deirdre Bolton , Sara Eisen and Sheelah
Kolhatkar on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Separately, former U.S. Senator Ted Kaufman, a Delaware
Democrat, also talked about the administrative action against
Cohen, saying he applauded SEC Chairman Mary Jo White for her
pursuit of Cohen and her role as an enforcer, while more needs
to be done on the regulatory side.  In addition, Kaufman discussed the outlook for U.S. banking
regulation. He spoke with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings/Executive Pay  RBS Sued by Fired Emerging-Markets Rates Head Over Bonus  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s former head of emerging-market rates, Lee Tze Kiang, sued the lender claiming his bonus
was wrongly forfeited when he went to work for a hedge fund firm
after he was fired.  Lee, dismissed in June 2012 after an investigation into two
traders he supervised, said in filings in  Singapore ’s  High Court 
that he had alerted RBS to their irregular activities. He’s
seeking at least S$3.2 million ($2.5 million).  RBS, which plans to claw back 302 million pounds ($463
million) from bankers to help pay U.S. fines over interest-rate
rigging, said in its defense filed July 1 that its rules provide
for deferred awards not to vest if the beneficiary engages in
competitive activity. It denied Lee’s assertion in his May 28
lawsuit that the provision is unenforceable and void.  “Unfortunately, Singapore’s labor laws allow employers to
terminate without justification relatively easily,” Lee said in
a phone interview yesterday.  Patricia Choo, a Singapore-based spokeswoman for RBS,
declined to comment on the case.  Lee said in his lawsuit that he alerted his superiors to
the irregular activity, which started before he managed the two
employees. He said in a July 15 filing that the U.S. fines
against RBS are unrelated to any business unit or profit center
he worked in at the bank and are “inconsistent” with his
claim.  The case is Lee Tze Kiang v. The Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc, S478/2013, Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  