-- EFIH Said to Prepare Debt-Reduction Plan for Restructuring
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-07-24T20:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/efih-said-to-prepare-debt-reduction-plan-for-restructuring-1-.html
Creditors of Energy Future Holdings
Corp.’s regulated-unit holding company are working on a debt
reduction plan as part of a broader restructuring being
negotiated at the former TXU Corp., people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Junior  bondholders  at Energy Future Intermediate Holding
Co., which holds most of regulated Oncor Electric Delivery Co.
and its almost $8 billion in debt, hired Centerview Partners LLC
and  Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP to advise on de-leveraging the unit’s obligations, said the people, who asked
not to be named because the matter is private.  TXU, Texas’s largest electricity provider, was taken
private for $48 billion in 2007 by KKR & Co., TPG Capital and
Goldman Sachs Capital Partners in the largest ever leveraged
buyout. The company has struggled to generate profits as
wholesale electricity prices have dropped on a decline in
natural gas costs, which have plunged more than 70 percent from
a 2008 high.  EFIH’s plan -- expected in August or September, the people
said -- may help smooth the way for a companywide agreement
after senior creditors at Energy Future’s unregulated unit
scuttled a pre-packaged bankruptcy proposal from the company,
according to an April regulatory filing. Those lenders cited the
need for the Dallas-based energy producer to restructure the
balance sheet at money-losing EFIH first.  Creditors to both businesses must reach agreement on
valuations to deliver a group resolution, or may decide to
pursue separate restructurings, said the people. The objective
is to get senior creditors already in talks to reduce $32
billion in borrowings at the unregulated businesses to reach a
deal that would give lenders majority ownership of the parent in
exchange for some debt.  Oncor Electric  EFIH owns 80 percent of Oncor Electric, a regulated power-line utility that doesn’t earn enough to cover EFIH’s interest
costs. Separating the regulated and unregulated units risks
triggering additional tax liabilities, one of the people said.  Energy Future Holdings said in its April 15 filing that
separating  Texas  Competitive Electric Holdings, its unregulated
power unit, could trigger a cash tax liability in excess of $2
billion. In addition, a separation of EFIH or Oncor from its
parent could result in a taxable event to Energy Future,
according to the filing.  Representatives for Energy Future, Centerview and Akin Gump
declined to comment. Debtwire previously reported that EFIH had
hired Centerview and Akin Gump.  Stalled Talks  EFIH’s plan may reignite negotiations that largely stalled
when the April proposal was rejected. Senior creditors to Texas
Competitive Electric Holdings want to reach a restructuring deal
before November, when interest payments on lower-ranked bonds
are due.  One of those payments is for Texas Competitive’s $1.83
billion of 10.25 percent unsecured bonds due November 2015,
which traded at 7.75 cents on the dollar on July 18, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. The securities traded as high as
31 cents on Jan. 4.  Centerview and Akin represent about $1.4 billion of
payment-in-kind EFIH bondholders, said the people. Payment-in-kind debt allows companies to pay interest with additional debt
rather than cash.  EFIH’s $2.18 billion of 10 percent first-lien notes due
December 2020 fell 1 cent on the dollar to 110.25 cents,
yielding 8.12 percent in  New York  today, according to Trace.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  