-- Egypt Violence Kills 9, Threatens Transition to Elections
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-07-23T15:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/egypt-clashes-kill-9-amid-calls-for-u-s-embassy-siege.html
Clashes between supporters and
opponents of deposed Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi killed
nine people, as violence following his ouster by the military
showed no sign of ebbing.  The deadliest eruption of fighting took place near Cairo
University, where six people were killed, state-run television
reported, citing the health ministry. The Brotherhood said
security forces attacked unarmed protesters. Another person died
in  Tahrir Square  near the U.S. embassy after Muslim Brotherhood
leader Essam El-Erian urged Egyptians to peacefully lay siege to
the mission.  Daily violence that has claimed the lives of dozens over
the past three weeks risks undermining the interim government’s
plan to return to elected rule. At the same time, moves to put
that process in motion have buoyed markets.  The military-appointed government is repeating the same
mistake Mursi made, ruling “in an exclusionary, confrontational
manner,” said Yasser el-Shimy, an analyst in Cairo at
 International Crisis Group . “This could eventually lead to a
very dangerous prospect, which is basically the normalization of
violence in the political context in  Egypt .”  Militants have also stepped up attacks on security forces
in the  Sinai peninsula , and yesterday, unidentified gunmen shot
dead a police sergeant in the northern town of El-Arish, the
 interior ministry  said today in an e-mailed statement.  The fighting hasn’t halted a rebound on financial markets
since the army intervention. The  EGX 30 stock index , which was
closed today, rose 0.6 percent yesterday in Cairo, taking the
gauge to its highest since May 15. The yield on Egypt’s $1
billion dollar bonds maturing in 2020 rose six basis points, or
0.06 of a percentage point, to 8.53 percent, at 4:12 p.m., the
highest in a week.  The military, supported by secular-leaning political
parties and youth groups, removed Mursi from power after days of
mass rallies against his rule. Under the transition plan,
constitutional court chief Adly Mansour was named interim
president and the constitution drafted under Mursi is to be
amended. Presidential and parliamentary elections are to follow.  The panel charged with amending the country’s constitution
today started reviewing proposals sent by various political
parties, groups and individuals, the state-run Middle East News
Agency reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  