-- Elan Investors Get Access to SAC Insider Case Evidence
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-07-23T18:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/elan-investors-get-access-to-sac-insider-case-evidence.html
Elan Corp. (ELN)  shareholders who sued SAC
Capital Advisors LP for insider trading can see evidence the
Securities and Exchange Commission and U.S. prosecutors were
required by law to provide to former SAC manager Mathew Martoma.  Martoma was indicted for insider trading and sued by the
SEC. He has denied any wrongdoing. Investors sued him, SAC and
its founder Steven Cohen, claiming Cohen created a “permissive
culture” that encouraged insider trading of the pharmaceutical
company’s stock and misappropriated material nonpublic
information about an Alzheimer’s drug.  The plaintiffs may “obtain all document discovery now or
hereafter produced to the defendants,” according to a July 19
order by U.S. Magistrate Judge Kevin Fox in  Manhattan .  The investors who sued bought American depositary receipts
of Dublin-based Elan or traded in options between July 1, 2006
and July 18, 2008, and between July 21, 2008 and July 29, 2008.
Martoma’s alleged insider trading took place during that last
week of July in 2008. Also sued was Sidney Gilman, a doctor who
allegedly passed drug-trial information to Martoma.  Martoma, 39, is set to face trial on Nov. 4 in New York.
Prosecutors told U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe, who’s
presiding over his case, that they’ve turned over to his lawyers
at least 4 million pages of documents and hundreds of thousands
of e-mails from the  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC.  Investor Suit  The investor suit seeks $549.2 million in profits gained
and losses avoided plus $396 million in prejudgment interest.
The amount in damages is offset by $259.7 million SAC agreed to
disgorge as part of a record $602 million March settlement with
the SEC, according to the complaint. Under the settlement, SAC
didn’t admit fault.  Since 2009, 11 current or former SAC employees have been
charged criminally with insider trading, sued by the government
or named as uncharged co-conspirators, according to the
plaintiffs.  On July 19, the SEC filed an administrative proceeding
against Cohen, seeking to ban him from the financial industry,
alleging he failed to supervise Martoma and SAC fund manager
Michael Steinberg, who’s been charged with insider trading in a
separate case.  The SEC today scheduled an Aug. 26 hearing in the Cohen
matter in  Washington , and appointed Chief Administrative Law Judge Brenda Murray to preside.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard Verbinnen &
Co., said the regulator’s action “has no merit.” Elan
shareholder lawyer Ethan Wohl declined to comment on Fox’s
ruling.  The case is Kaplan v. SAC Capital, 12-cv-09350, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  