-- Telenor’s Second-Quarter Profit Rises as Indian Loss Narrows
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-07-23T09:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/telenor-s-second-quarter-earnings-rise-on-increase-in-customers.html
Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Nordic region’s
largest phone operator, reported second-quarter earnings rose as
its unprofitable Indian business narrowed its loss.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose to 8.86 billion kroner ($1.5 billion) from
8.06 billion kroner a year earlier, the Fornebu, Norway-based
company said today. The operating loss of Telenor’s Indian
business narrowed to 107 million kroner from 619 million kroner.  Chief Executive Officer Jon Fredrik Baksaas is expanding
the company’s wireless Nordic network to fend off rivals that
are cutting prices. The phone operator is also adding users in
 emerging markets  while seeking to reduce costs by 5 billion
kroner by 2015. Telenor agreed to buy Globul, the second-largest
mobile carrier in  Bulgaria , in April for 717 million euros ($946
million).  Telenor said it’s starting a buyback program to repurchase
about 1 percent of its stock before the next annual general
meeting.  “Telenor’s report was solid and I expect consensus to
raise estimates, but the share buyback of 1 percent of shares is
a slight disappointment since they bought back almost 3 percent
last year,” said Stefan Gauffin, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB
in  Stockholm .  Regulatory Challenges  The carrier reiterated its expectation for a margin on
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of about 34 percent of sales in 2013. The measure was 34.4
percent in the second quarter. The company cut its forecast in
April for full-year revenue growth, excluding the effect of
currency swings, acquisitions or divestments, to 2 percent to 4
percent.  “Telenor’s geographical footprint covers both advanced and
growing economies, offering growth opportunities and
profitability as demonstrated in the second quarter,” Baksaas
said in the statement. “At the same time, regulatory issues
remain a challenge, particularly visible in Bangladesh and  India 
during this period.”  The state-controlled carrier’s  shares  rose 0.7 percent to
125.1 kroner at 11:02 a.m. in Oslo trading. The shares have
gained about 11 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  