-- Emerging Markets Gain Clout at IMF Amid Faster Growth Trends
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-07-24T01:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/emerging-markets-gain-clout-at-imf-amid-faster-growth-trends.html
The clout of  emerging markets  at the
 International Monetary Fund  is rising as faster economic growth
from  China  to  India  in the past few years would boost their
voting power, data released by the fund show.  The calculated quota share of emerging and developing
economies increased to 45.3 percent in 2011 from 43.9 percent in
2010 and 41.8 percent in 2008, according to a report released
today and discussed by the board last month. The share for
advanced economies fell to 54.7 percent from 56.1 percent.  Most of the increase is linked to the countries’ gross
domestic product, “reflecting a continued marked divergence in
growth trends,” between developed and developing countries,
according to the staff report. Among emerging countries, “the
largest gains continue to be recorded by  Asia  while most other
regions register modest increases.”  The changes mirror a shift in the balance of economic power
that saw developed economies struggling to recover from the
global financial crisis of 2008-2009 while their emerging
counterparts helped sustain global growth. IMF quotas help
determine how much a country can borrow and its voting share at
the IMF. Calculated with a formula that uses GDP as one of four
components, they have been a point of discord between groups of
countries as emerging markets demand more say at the
institution.  Paulo Nogueira Batista, who represents Brazil and 10 other
countries at the IMF board, said in an e-mailed statement that
the formula needs to change.  “We remain of the view -- and have not found reasons to
revise our position -- that to honor” commitments by the Group
of 20 nations and the IMF’s steering committee, “the revised
quota formula would need to be based essentially” on a GDP
variable with more weight on purchasing power parity, he said.  A 2010 agreement boosting the share of  developing countries 
has not yet come into force, pending approval by the  U.S.
Congress .  Fund members are trying to reach a new quota agreement by
early next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  