-- Emerging Stocks Rise to 6-Week High on China as Lira Advances
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-07-23T22:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/emerging-stocks-climb-to-six-week-high-on-china-growth-optimism.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, sending
the benchmark index to a six-week high, as investors speculated
 China ’s government will boost spending to maintain growth of at
least 7 percent. Turkey’s lira gained after the central bank
raised its overnight lending rate.  ZTE Corp. (763) , China’s second-largest maker of equipment for
phone networks, jumped 20 percent in Hong Kong after profit
gained. OAO Magnit, Russia’s largest food retailer, climbed to a
record after earnings beat estimates. Cia. Siderurgica Nacional
SA led gains in Brazilian steelmakers. Indonesia’s rupiah
plunged 1.3 percent, the most in 13 months, against the dollar
in onshore trading as  Bank Indonesia  allows a more rapid slide
toward levels quoted in the offshore market.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 1.6 percent to
969.04, the highest since June 10. Benchmark gauges in China,
South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand climbed more than 1 percent,
while the MSCI All-Country World Index lost 0.1 percent. Chinese
Premier  Li Keqiang  said the country’s “bottom line” for
economic growth is 7 percent, Beijing News reported today,
citing comments at a recent meeting with economists and
businessmen.  The Chinese comments are “very bullish for emerging-market
equities,” Chad Morganlander, a Florham Park, New Jersey-based
fund manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a phone
interview. His firm oversees about $130 billion. “They’re
sending a message that China will support economic growth, and
that emboldens risk-taking and future forecasts for global
growth.”  Gauges of financial and technology companies in the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index advanced at least 1.9 percent, the most
among 10  industry groups . ZTE jumped the most since 2008 after
first-half net income rose 23 percent from a year earlier.  Magnit Climbs  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund climbed 1.1 percent to $40.10. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
dropped 4.7 percent to 22.09.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  climbed 0.5 percent to a one-month high
as CSN, as Cia. Siderurgica is known, rose 3 percent. MMX
Mineracao & Metalicos SA surged 12 percent, leading gains among
companies controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista .  The IPC index jumped 1.7 percent in Mexico City, the best
performer among major gauges in the Americas. Mining company
Minera Frisco SAB rose 6.2 percent, snapping seven days of
declines.  Magnit climbed 5.8 percent in Moscow after reporting
second-quarter net income rose 48 percent from the same period
last year.  OAO Severstal (CHMF) , Russia’s second biggest steel-maker,
added 3.4 percent after posting a 5 percent advance in second-quarter steel output. The Micex Index rose 0.1 percent.  Forint Retreats  Turkey’s lira strengthened 0.6 percent and the yield on 10-year lira notes dropped five basis points to 8.71 percent. The
central bank raised its overnight lending rate by 75 basis
points, more than the 50 basis-point median estimate predicted
in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index fell
0.6 percent after earlier rising as much as 1.8 percent.  The forint slipped 0.5 percent versus the euro. Hungary’s
central bank cut its main  interest rate  to 4 percent from 4.25
percent, matching the forecast of all 21 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  The MSCI Emerging Markets gauge has lost 8.2 percent this
year and  trades  at about 10.1 times its 12-month projected
earnings. The MSCI World Index of developed nations has gained
14 percent in 2013 and trades at 13.9 times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Railway Investment  The Shanghai Composite Index added 2 percent while the  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies traded in
 Hong Kong  surged 3.9 percent, the most in more than six months.
CSR Corp. and  China Railway Construction (1186)  Corp. rallied more than
7 percent after China Business News said state-run China Railway
Corp. may increase investment for railway construction this
year.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and Technology  Co., China’s
second-largest construction equipment maker, jumped 9.3 percent,
the steepest increase since December 2011.  Benchmark gauges in Indonesia and the Philippines gained at
least 1.7 percent, while Indian stocks added 0.7 percent.  The South Korean won strengthened 0.1 percent after the
government said it is looking to cut a home-purchase tax and as
foreign investors bought more local stocks than they sold.  Solar Companies  Neo Solar Power Corp. (3576)  surged 3.6 percent in Taipei while
 Motech Industries Inc. (6244)  added 3.5 percent. The Commercial Times
reported that the island’s photovoltaic companies will benefit
from trade rifts among China, the U.S. and the European Union.  Hyundai Hysco Co. (010520)  jumped 5.8 percent in Seoul, leading
South Korean steelmakers higher. Steelmakers are considering
increasing prices of major steel products after China made
similar moves yesterday, Kim Chang Ho, analyst at Kiwoom
Securities Co., said in Seoul.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 305 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  