-- EPA Ozone Pollution Standard Upheld by U.S. Appeals Court
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-23T16:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/epa-ozone-pollution-standard-upheld-by-u-s-appeals-court.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency’s 2008 standards for ozone pollution, challenged by both
industry and environmentalists, were upheld by a federal appeals
court that ruled the agency properly weighed science and policy.  More than a dozen states sued the regulator in 2008 during
the administration of President  George W. Bush , saying it failed
to heed the recommendations of independent science advisers to
adopt a stricter standard for ozone, a component of smog.
Industry groups also challenged the rule claiming it was too
strict and based on unreliable science.  “EPA’s invocation of scientific uncertainty and more
general public health policy considerations satisfies its
obligations under the statute,” a three-judge panel of the U.S.
Court of Appeals in  Washington  wrote today in its unanimous
decision.  Ozone, a gas with three oxygen atoms, protects the earth
from harmful ultraviolet in the upper atmosphere. At ground
level it’s formed when nitrogen oxides and volatile organic
compounds, the byproducts of combustion, interact with sunlight
and heat. The gas, which is most problematic during hot, dry
summers, causes respiratory and cardiovascular ailments
including asthma, shortness of breath and chest tightness.  The 2008 standard was set at 75 parts per billion.  The court, while allowing the regulation to remain in
place, ordered EPA to review the so-called secondary standard
portion of the rule, which pertains to environmental protection.  The lead case is State of  Mississippi  v. Environmental
Protection Agency, 08-1200,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 