-- Tesoro Rail Project in Washington Gets Approval From Port Board
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-07-23T18:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/tesoro-rail-project-in-washington-gets-approval-from-port-board.html
Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ’s proposal to build a
120,000-barrel-a-day crude-by-rail complex at the Port of
 Vancouver  in Washington received approval by the port’s board of
commissioners today.  The board decided during a meeting in Vancouver to approve
the ground lease for the project. Tesoro is partnering with
Savage Cos. to build a station at the port, on the Columbia
River north of Portland, Oregon, that would unload oil from rail
cars and put it on vessels for delivery to markets along the
Pacific Coast.  Tesoro’s proposal comes amid increased scrutiny over crude-by-rail projects after a Montreal, Maine & Atlantic train
hauling oil rolled from its parking spot on July 6 and crashed
in Lac-Megantic, Quebec, incinerating 30 buildings and killing
at least 47 people. A surge in North American oil production and
a lack of pipeline capacity boosted the amount of crude moved by
rail to record levels last year, according to the  Association of
American Railroads .  A decision on  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s proposal to unload as
much as 70,000 barrels of oil a day from rail cars at its
Benicia refinery in Northern California was delayed by city
regulators until August to allow more time for public comment.  Tesoro had said its project in Washington would require a
land-lease agreement with the port and proposed an initial lease
term of 10 years. Savage would oversee and operate the complex,
which is expected to be operational in 2014.  The station would be able to handle an initial volume of
120,000 barrels a day with the potential to expand to 280,000,
Tesoro said in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  