-- Vivendi in Talks to Sell Maroc Telecom Stake to Etisalat
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n ,   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f
-- 2013-07-23T19:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/etisalat-in-talks-to-acquire-vivendi-s-stake-in-maroc-telecom.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  is in exclusive talks to
sell its stake in Moroccan phone company Maroc Telecom SA to
 Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT)  for 4.2 billion euros ($5.5
billion) as the French company sharpens its focus on media.  The offer values Vivendi’s 53 percent stake at 3.9 billion
euros, or 92.6 dirhams per Maroc Telecom share,  Emirates
Telecommunications , known as Etisalat, said today in a
statement. Etisalat would also pay 310 million euros for a
dividend that Vivendi was set to receive from Maroc Telecom. BNP
Paribas SA is advising Etisalat on the purchase.  Vivendi, which also owns phone assets in France and  Brazil ,
is seeking to shift the focus of its business from
telecommunications to content: music company  Universal Music
Group , video-game publisher  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and pay-TV
provider  Canal Plus . Reaching a deal on Maroc Telecom will help
Vivendi Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou show investors he can deliver
on asset sales, a promise he made more than a year ago.  The deal “should see the restructuring story gain
momentum,” Ian Whittaker, an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd.,
said in a note to investors. It marks “the first concrete steps
of the restructuring program.”  Vivendi rose 2.4 percent to 16.08 euros in Paris trading.
Etisalat rose 1.3 percent to 11.95 dirhams in Abu Dhabi. Maroc
Telecom shares dropped 9.4 percent in Casablanca, closing at
90.2 dirhams.  ‘We’re Done’  A deal would give Etisalat, based in  Abu Dhabi , control
over the largest mobile carrier in  Morocco . Etisalat said it has
secured the commitment from a syndicate of local and
international banks to finance the transaction.  “We would not have gone all the way, spent time and effort
over the last few months, if we were not confident that this
would work,” Etisalat Chief Strategy Officer Daniel Ritz said
today in a telephone interview. “We have negotiated both the
price and all contractual conditions; as far as Vivendi is
concerned, we’re done.”  Etisalat’s second-quarter net income rose 5.9 percent to
1.98 billion dirhams ($539 million) as revenue climbed 20
percent to 9.88 billion dirhams, the company said in a statement
today. Sales from international operations jumped 50 percent to
3.5 billion dirhams.  Qatar’s Ooredoo, formerly known as  Qatar Telecom , withdrew
its offer for Maroc Telecom in June because of what it called a
“lengthy” sale process. Vivendi had wanted as much as 5
billion euros for the holding, one person briefed on the matter
said in June.  Vivendi and Etisalat plan to close the deal by the end of
the year, subject to regulatory approvals. Lazard Ltd. and
Credit Agricole SA are advising Vivendi.  French Network  More than $160 billion in deals for the telecommunications
industry have been announced in the last 12 months, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The median ratio of earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to price paid was
5.7 percent. Sanford C. Bernstein analysts said Etisalat valued
Maroc Telecom at 6.2 times Ebitda.  Vivendi’s main French telecommunications division, SFR, is
under pressure from increased competition. The French phone
company is trying to fend off low-cost offers by  Iliad SA (ILD)  as
price wars enter their second year in the French wireless
services market. Fourtou has said reinforcing business at SFR is
the first step to a possible initial public offering of it.  To save money at SFR, Vivendi entered exclusive talks with
 Bouygues SA (EN)  about reaching an agreement by year-end to share
part of their French mobile-phone networks, in an effort to
cover more ground for less, according to a statement from the
two parent companies.  Sharing Locations  Discussions about sharing infrastructure will focus on the
latest generation of wireless technology, dubbed 4G or LTE, and
where to share, according to people familiar with the
negotiations who asked not to be named because they’re private.  Early estimates suggest that sharing networks could yield
savings from 5 percent to 20 percent in network capital
expenditures and operating expenses, the people said. The
companies are in talks with regulators to determine where the
carriers will be allowed to pool their resources, which will
determine how big the economies are, they said.  Representatives at Bouygues Telecom and SFR declined to
comment on the network sharing plan beyond the statement.  French telecommunications regulator Arcep conditionally
encouraged sharing agreements in the framework for its 4G
license accords in 2011, the agency said in a statement noting
SFR and Bouygues Telecom’s announcement. A final agreement will
need to ensure the operators maintain adequate competitive
conditions while giving users better service across the region,
Arcep said.  “The resulting entity, however, should also be more
competitive thanks to increased network density, faster LTE
rollout and better backhaul through the pooling of existing
assets,”  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein,
said in a note to investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  