-- Euro-Area July Consumer Confidence Increases More Than Estimated
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-07-23T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/euro-area-july-consumer-confidence-increases-more-than-estimated.html
Euro-area  consumer confidence 
increased more than economists estimated in July, adding to
signs the 17-nation currency bloc is emerging from a  record-long
recession .  An index of household confidence in the  euro zone  improved
to minus 17.4 from minus 18.8 in June, the European Commission
in Brussels said today. Economists had forecast an increase to
minus 18.3, according to the median of 27 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey . The gauge has improved for eight straight
months.  The euro-area economy, which has contracted for  six
quarters , probably stagnated in the three months through June
and will return to growth this quarter, according to a separate
Bloomberg survey of economists. The  International Monetary Fund 
forecasts the bloc’s economy to shrink 0.6 percent this year.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  earlier this
month took what he called an “unprecedented” step and told
investors that  interest rates  in the euro area would stay low as
the economy struggles, lending is weak and inflation pressures
remain subdued. The ECB’s  benchmark rate  is at a record low 0.5
percent.  Draghi said euro-area domestic demand later this year and
in 2014 “should be supported by the accommodative monetary
policy stance as well as the recent gains in real income owing
to generally lower inflation.”  Consumer price growth  has been
below the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling for five months.  Record Unemployment  Consumer confidence improved despite a record unemployment
rate of 12.2 percent.  Retail sales  increased 1 percent in May
from a month earlier.  Carrefour SA (CA) , France’s biggest retailer, said on July 18
that stronger sales in  Latin America  helped cushion a drop in
Europe during the second quarter, while revenue at its French
hypermarkets was stabilizing. The company doesn’t expect the
economic climate to improve in 2013.  The Brussels-based commission is scheduled to publish the
final numbers for June  consumer confidence  and the wider
indicator of euro-area economic confidence on July 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  