-- Europe’s Grassland Butterfly Count Halved Over 22-Year Period
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-23T15:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/europe-s-grassland-butterfly-count-halved-over-22-year-period.html
Grassland butterfly populations
across 19 European countries fell by almost 50 percent from 1990
to 2011 as farming intensified in many areas and meadows were
abandoned elsewhere, the European Environment Agency said.  Of 17 species of butterfly monitored over the 22-year
period, eight declined, two remained stable and one increased,
while for six species the trend is uncertain, the European
Union’s environmental agency wrote in an online  report .  Europe’s butterfly population is monitored through field
counts of species such as the wall brown, common blue and
orangetip in countries including France and  Germany , the EU’s
biggest agricultural producers. Butterflies are considered
useful indicators of biodiversity and representative for
developments for other insects, the EEA wrote.  “This dramatic decline in grassland butterflies should
ring alarm bells,” Hans Bruyninckx, the EEA’s executive
director, was cited as saying. “If we fail to maintain these
habitats we could lose many of these species forever.”  The main reason for the falling butterfly populations is
changing rural land use, with intensification of farming where
land is relatively flat and easy to cultivate, while large areas
of grassland have been abandoned in mountains and wet areas,
mainly in eastern and southern Europe, according to the agency.
Butterflies are also vulnerable to pesticides, it said.  Of Europe’s 436 butterfly species, grasslands are home to
382 and the main habitat for 280, according to the report.  The falling butterfly count indicates a “dramatic loss”
of grassland biodiversity, according to the EEA. While some
populations showed a “slight recovery,” the overall declining
trend continues from 2010, 2008 and 2005, the agency wrote.  “This shows that butterflies are still disappearing from
Europe’s grasslands,” the EEA wrote. “This huge decline has
important implications for the conservation of biodiversity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  