-- Ex-ArthroCare Official Pleads Guilty to Securities Fraud
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-07-23T15:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/ex-arthrocare-official-pleads-guilty-to-securities-fraud.html
A former  ArthroCare Corp. (ARTC)  senior
executive pleaded guilty for his role in a $400 million scheme
to defraud investors in the maker of surgical products.  John Raffle, 45, former senior vice president of Strategic
Business Units at Austin, Texas-based ArthroCare, pleaded guilty
in June to one count of conspiracy to commit securities, mail
and wire fraud and two counts of making false statements. His
plea was unsealed yesterday, the U.S. Justice Department said.  Raffle, who was in charge of the company’s sales and
marketing staff, “admitted that he and other co-conspirators
falsely inflated ArthroCare’s sales and revenue through end-of-quarter transactions involving ArthroCare’s distributors,” the
department said today in a statement. He faces a maximum of five
years in prison for each count, the government said.  ArthroCare’s former chief executive officer, Michael Baker,
and a former chief financial officer, Michael Gluk, were
indicted last week on charges that they falsely inflated
revenue, starting at least by December 2005 and continuing
through December 2008.  “Mr. Baker did nothing wrong,” his attorney,  Jay
Pomerantz  of Fenwick & West LLP, said last week in an e-mailed
statement. “We are confident that a jury will conclude that Mr.
Baker is innocent.”  Jason Lewis, Gluk’s attorney, didn’t immediately return a
call for comment today. Gluk is scheduled to be arraigned July
25 in federal court in Austin, according to court documents.  A fourth former executive, David Applegate, pleaded guilty
in May to two counts of fraud.  The case is U.S. v. Raffle, 12-cr-00314, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  