-- Ex-Giant Morris Is NFL Fashion Cop Enforcing Leg Pad Rules
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-07-23T18:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/ex-giant-morris-becomes-nfl-fashion-cop-enforcing-leg-pad-rules.html
Former  New York Giants  running back
Joe Morris made the  Pro Bowl  twice and won a Super Bowl during
his National Football League career, all while wearing knee and
thigh pads. So he says he’s not taking any excuses this season
when he enforces the league’s new rule requiring them.  “By having pads in your pants, you are eliminating the
chance of being injured,” Morris, 52, who now works for the NFL
enforcing uniform standards, said in an interview. “From a
safety point of view, you are trying to protect a player from
himself and keep him on the field.”  Lower leg pads were required until 1995. Some players took
them out of their pants thinking it made them faster. NFL owners
decided that’s unsafe and voted to require them starting this
season.  Morris , who at 5-foot-7 and 195 pounds (1.7 meters, 88
kilograms) ran for 5,585 yards and 50 touchdowns in eight NFL
seasons with the Giants and  Cleveland Browns , was New York’s
leading rusher when the team won the  Super Bowl  after the 1986
season. Now he attends Giants home games at MetLife Stadium in
 East Rutherford ,  New Jersey , and watches players to make sure
they are dressed properly: shirts tucked, standard socks, no
personal messages written on their uniforms and, this year, knee
and thigh pads.  “Every week, I pass out $45,000 to $50,000 in fines to
guys who just don’t care,” he said.  The NFL is still formulating fines for violating the knee-and-thigh-pads rule. According to the 2012 list, players could
be fined a minimum $5,250 for a first uniform offense and a
minimum $10,500 for a second offense, though that could change
this season.  Irvin’s Fear  Former Dallas Cowboys wide receiver Michael Irvin, a hall-of-famer who now is an analyst for the NFL Network, entered the
league from the  University of Miami  in 1988 around the time
players were starting to manipulate their pads, leading to the
adoption of the league’s uniform policy in 1995.  In the days leading up to the college draft, scouts
reminded Irvin that he was far from the fastest receiver
entering the league and it weighed on his mind, said the former
first-round pick.  “I looked around my rookie season and was thinking, ‘I
need to make sure I am as light as I can be so I can run as fast
as I can,’’ Irvin, 47, who made five Pro Bowls, said in an
interview.  One day he noticed San Francisco 49ers receiver Jerry Rice
was cutting the rubber padding out of his thigh pads and wearing
only the outer plastic shell to trim weight.  ‘‘If  Jerry Rice  is only wearing a shell, I have to wear
nothing at all,’’ Irvin said. Initially he was afraid he’d get a
thigh bruise, but when he sailed through the first game
uninjured, he said he decided to never wear them again.  Mental Game  ‘‘It’s amazing the psychological effects the little things
have on your confidence,” Irvin said. “I was convinced they
slowed me down. And I’m sure guys today will be sure of the
same. It’s all mental.”  Former Giants coach  Bill Parcells  said he fought with
players who didn’t want to wear pads for the same reason as
Irvin. His biggest trouble came from cornerbacks and receivers,
Parcells said during a media conference call.  “It was a constant battle for me,” said Parcells, who
will be inducted into the Hall of Fame in Canton,  Ohio , on Aug.
3. “I was always one that was very adamant about wearing pads,
and I would fine my players if they didn’t wear them.”  Parcells, 71, who coached Morris when he was with the
Giants, said it’s smart for the league to require players to
wear the pads.  “I’ve seen many, many injuries in my experience that came
when proper equipment was not worn and could have been
prevented, so I am all for it 100 percent,” he said.  Pre-Game Warning  Merton Hanks, the NFL’s vice president of football
operations who had a nine-year career as a defensive back, said
when players come out for pregame warm-ups this season, if they
are not wearing the pads they will be notified to put them in.  If the player returns for the start of the game and still
isn’t wearing the pads and attempts to walk on the field, the
back judge and head coach will be notified and the player will
be removed from the game until the violation is corrected.  Hanks said the new rule was four years in the making and
discussed at length with the NFL players’ union before the
change was agreed upon.  He said it improves safety, levels the playing field (only
kickers and punters are exempt) and sets an example for players
from Pop Warner to college football that safety is important.  “Certainly, we expect to have fewer leg injuries and thigh
bruises,” Hanks, 45, said. “We have the finest athletes in the
world. Carrying a few extra ounces will not be a hindrance to
their performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup in  New York  at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  