-- Ex-SEC Enforcement Chief Khuzami Joins Kirkland: Firm
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-07-23T04:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/ex-sec-enforcement-chief-khuzami-joins-kirkland-firm.html
Robert Khuzami , the former head of
enforcement at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, is
joining Kirkland & Ellis LLP.  Mark Filip, a partner in charge of Kirkland’s government
enforcement defense and internal investigations, said Khuzami
will help immediately in securities enforcement defense,
advising boards and companies and counseling financial
institutions on securities regulations. He will complement the
firm’s general white-collar, internal investigations, and
private class-action securities practices, Filip said yesterday
in an interview.  Khuzami, 56, will be joined by  Kenneth Lench , who served as
one of his lieutenants at the SEC and headed a unit that
scrutinizes financial instruments such as mortgage-backed
securities and collateralized-debt obligations, Filip said.  Khuzami, a former federal prosecutor and top lawyer at
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , took over the SEC’s enforcement division in
2009 under  Mary Schapiro , who was hired as chairman to help
restore the agency’s image after it was battered for missing
Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. Khuzami carried out the
biggest shakeup in the enforcement unit’s history, eliminating
management layers, expanding investigators’ powers and creating
five specialized units to police  Wall Street .  He held the position for about four years before stepping
down and was replaced in February by his deputy, George Canellos. Mary Jo White, who became the agency’s chairman in
April, named a co-chief of enforcement, Andrew Ceresney, to
serve alongside Canellos.  Financial Meltdown  Under Khuzami, the SEC filed more than 150 cases related to
the financial meltdown, including 65 actions against senior
corporate officers, the agency said in January. His
investigators took aim at lenders who generated subprime
mortgages as well as Wall Street traders and investment banks
that bundled the home loans for investors.  That record was criticized by some lawmakers, judges,
investors and at least one commissioner who said the SEC should
have held more top executives accountable for practices that led
to taxpayer bailouts of financial institutions including  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “It’s a very strong record,” Khuzami told Bloomberg
Television in a January interview. “We are leaving no stone
unturned in pursuing misconduct arising out of the financial
crisis.”  He said that many of the ill-fated investment decisions
made before and during the financial crisis didn’t amount to
 securities fraud . He also defended the agency’s policy of not
requiring firms to admit wrongdoing when settling allegations,
saying such a stance would lead to protracted litigation and
drain the enforcement program of resources.  Biggest Settlements  He oversaw some of the biggest settlements in SEC history.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. agreed in July 2010 to pay $550 million
over claims it misled investors about a mortgage-linked
investment; Citigroup reached a $285 million settlement and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  forfeited $154 million for their roles in
similar deals.  Kirkland, based in Chicago, is a 1,600-attorney firm with
10 offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Filip said he was one of the lawyers who helped recruit
Khuzami, who he said was pursued by many firms and spoke to as
many as 30 Kirkland partners over several months.  With each meeting Khuzami grew increasingly comfortable
with Kirkland, in part through his connection to partners Henry
dePippo and  Michael Garcia , who Khuzami worked with at the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in New York, Filip said.  The firm has a “good structure nationally and
internationally,” so that Khuzami felt he “isn’t coming in and
having to reinvent the wheel,” Filip said. At the same time,
the firm offered “enough of a greenfield that Rob felt he could
grow,” he said.  Khuzami’s move to Kirkland was reported earlier by the New
York Times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Blumberg in  San Francisco  at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  