-- Texas Ranchers, Saudi Princess Put Jewels in Traum Safes
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2013-07-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/texas-ranchers-saudi-princess-put-jewels-in-traum-safes.html
When did safes become objects so
luxurious you almost want to put them in another safe?  Traum Safe , based in  New York , lets you stash those gold
bars and gems inside interiors of the most gorgeous wood and
leather. One safe features a revolving watch winder; another has
hidden compartments for documents or seldom-worn jewelry.  Safes intended for vacation homes can be programmed so that
they’re impossible to open between the months of September
through May.  I spoke with Traum’s owner, Sheela Murthy, about some of
the quirks of the trade.  Tarmy: Most of what I know about safes comes from the
movies. Is the security really so high-tech?  Murthy: You have to be quite careful with new technology --
if it’s new, it’s a technology that might fail. So there’s a
whole rash of biometric safes, and if we’re asked we would
provide a client with a biometric lock on a lower-end safe, but
we’ll also install an alternate system in case it fails.  Tarmy: How much would a lower-end safe actually cost?  Murthy: Our range is from about $35,000 to $205,000, for
standard sizes.  Tarmy: Why such a range in price?  Murthy: A $35,000 safe is much smaller, it’s lighter
weight, and it’s meant more for a condo in  New York City ,
whereas if you have a ranch in  Texas  -- well, the jewelry in it
can be worth the same amount, but you have less security. So
you’ll need a much heavier safe.  Tarmy: Could someone pick the small safe up and take it
away?  Special Bolts  Murthy: It’s not just a challenge for the small safes; it’s
a challenge for the 2,000-pound (907 kilos) safes as well. If
you put wheels underneath it, anything can be taken away. So we
bolt safes to the floor with special bolts, and in addition we
have the clients connect them to their alarm system.  Tarmy: Do you have stories of people trying to crack your
safes?  Murthy: People have tried to do things like pry one open
with a crowbar, but they can’t even get started with that.  Tarmy: No high-end heists?  Murthy: Our safe is protected by two glass plates. So if
you try to drill the lock, unless you have the exact 132nd of an
inch location to drill, you’re going to shatter the glass, and
then the wires and deadbolts are released and the safe can’t be
opened.  So with two glass plates, even if you get past one, you
have to know where the other one is. Nothing is impossible to
open, but it’s virtually impossible.  Break Scenario  Tarmy: What kind of scenario could you envision where
someone actually would break into the safe?  Murthy: What opens the safe is if someone has a gun to you
or your family members. Then you open the safe. If someone is
looking for jewelry, we suggest you just give it to them. It’s
just not worth it.  By the same token though, you can type in a special code
that opens the safe, but sends an alarm that there’s a burglary
in progress.  Tarmy: What’s the most elaborate safe you’ve ever done for
a male client?  Murthy: It was in Tijuana. One of the most beautiful homes
I’ve ever seen, and surrounded by giraffes and zebras. In his
closet we built a custom walk-in safe, which is harder to do
than you would imagine -- it still has to be fireproof and
secure.  Tarmy: And for women, I assume it’s custom jewelry?  King’s Ransom  Murthy: Someone came into the store with a sack full of
jewelry, a king’s ransom, and asked, “Oh, could you design a
safe for this?”  I said to my assistant: “Lock the door to the store, right
now.”  Tarmy: What’s the most outrageous piece of jewelry you’ve
designed a safe for?  Murthy: There was a Saudi princess living in  Washington ,
D.C. She had a bracelet which went from her wrist to her
forearm, completely hand done, with the most exquisite rubies,
sapphires, and emeralds.  We made a little home for it in the safe.  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News  and for Loot, a blog on Bloomberg.com. The
opinions expressed are his own. This interview was adapted from
a longer conversation.)  Information:  http://www.traumsafe.com/main.asp   Muse highlights include: Patrick Cole on  music  and Manuela
Hoelterhoff on  books .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 