-- Mexican Bonds Rally on Prospects for Pena Nieto; Currency Slips
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-07-23T19:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/mexican-bonds-rally-on-prospects-for-pena-nieto-currency-slips.html
Mexico ’s benchmark bonds rallied,
pushing yields to the lowest in a month, on speculation that
President Enrique Pena Nieto will succeed in working with rivals
to pass legislation changes to boost growth.  Yields on the debt due in December 2024 fell seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 5.68 percent at 2:19 p.m.
in Mexico City, the lowest on a closing basis since June 19. The
peso depreciated 0.1 percent to 12.5150 per  U.S. dollar .  The yields have declined 13 basis points since Interior
Minister Miguel Osorio Chong said in a Radio Formula interview
on July 19 that the government welcomed a plan to change the
nation’s energy laws to be presented by the opposition  National
Action Party , or PAN. Foreign holdings of Mexico’s fixed-rate
bonds touched a record high in May in part on speculation that
Pena Nieto will prevail in honoring his pledge to pass
legislative changes to open the nation’s state-owned oil
monopoly to more private investment and boost tax collection.  “What we’ve been seeing again is flows coming from
foreigners,” Salvador Orozco, deputy director for money markets
and exchange at Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB, said by
phone from Mexico City. “They’re buying the idea that we’re
going to see reforms in Mexico.”  Pena Nieto said in an interview in  London  last month that
the passage of education and telecommunications bills this year
and the formation of an alliance between the country’s leading
political parties signal that there is momentum to adopt
changes. He said his administration will send bills to overhaul
energy and tax policies in September and that the so-called Pact
for Mexico alliance between the nation’s three leading political
parties will assure approval by Congress to end the government’s
monopoly on oil production before year’s end.  Combined Support  Osorio Chong said in the Radio Formula interview that while
the preference is to have support from the rival Democratic
Revolution Party, the combined support of PAN and the ruling
 Institutional Revolutionary Party  is sufficient to assure a
bill’s passage.  Foreigners as of July 12 owned 56.5 percent of the
$157 billion outstanding of fixed-rate Mexican government peso
bonds, according to the most recent central bank data. That is
up from a four-month low of 54.6 percent on June 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  