-- F-Secure Falls as Nordea Sees Offer Unlikely on Forecast
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-07-23T11:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/f-secure-falls-as-nordea-sees-offer-unlikely-on-forecast.html
F-Secure Oyj (FSC1V)  dropped to a 7 1/2-week
low as an analyst at Nordea Bank AB said the Finnish data-security software developer is unlikely to attract a takeover
bid after cutting its sales forecast.  F-Secure fell as much as 5.1 percent to 5.1 percent, the
lowest intraday level since May 30, based on closing prices, and
was trading down 4.1 percent at 2:48 p.m. in Helsinki. Trading
volume exceeded 125,000 shares, about 86 percent of the three-month daily average.  The company said yesterday that revenue this year will
remain at about the 2012 figure, compared with an earlier
estimate of growth exceeding 5 percent. Martti Larjo, an analyst
at Nordea, said the reduction prompted the bank to lower its
 recommendation  to strong sell from sell, as he wasn’t expecting
any forecast cut by F-Secure until later this year.  “We cut our sales estimates by 4 percent for this year,
which will have about 10 percent negative impact on earnings,”
Larjo said in a report to clients today.  The stock has declined a third consecutive trading day,
paring the gain this year to 21 percent. Takeover  speculation 
was spurred following Intel Corp.’s bid for  Finland ’s Stonesoft
Oyj on May 6. Other small software companies including
 Innofactor Oyj (IFA1V)  and  SSH Communications Security Oyj (SSH1V)  have
experienced similar stock jumps.  “We do not expect to see a bid for F-Secure,” Larjo said.
“There could be an acquisition interest in F-Secure’s content
cloud business but, as this represents less than 10 percent of
the group, it would be too expensive for a prospective buyer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  