-- FDA Says Menthol Cigarettes Likely Have Health Impact
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-07-23T20:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/fda-says-menthol-cigarettes-likely-have-health-impact.html
Lorillard Inc. (LO) ,  Altria Group Inc. (MO) 
and other  tobacco companies  may face limits on selling menthol
cigarettes in the U.S. after regulators determined the minty
flavoring may encourage people to start smoking.  The  Food and Drug Administration , in a  preliminary
evaluation  today, stopped short of proposing a ban. The FDA is
instead asking for input on whether to set standards prohibiting
or limiting menthol in cigarettes. A panel of advisers to the
FDA determined in 2011 that ending menthol sales would benefit
public health because the flavor lures people to start smoking.  Menthol makes up about 30 percent of the cigarette market,
Lorillard, the largest U.S. maker of such products, said on its
“Understanding Menthol” website. Greensboro, North Carolina-based Lorillard makes the Newport brand of menthol cigarettes,
while Altria’s Philip Morris USA unit sells menthol versions of
Marlboro.  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)  makes Camel, Kool and Salem.  “Menthol cigarettes raise critical public health
questions,” Mitch Zeller, director of the FDA’s Center for
Tobacco Products, said on a conference call. “We need more
information on outcomes and we are honestly soliciting comment
in response to the questions about regulatory outcomes.”  He declined to comment on when the agency may take
regulatory action.  Lorillard fell 4.5 percent to $44.08 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. Reynolds lost 2 percent to $50.80, while Richmond,
Virginia-based Altria declined 2.4 percent to $35.99.  Softer Tone  The softer tone of today’s FDA evaluation compared to the
2011 advisory panel report suggests “a ban is very unlikely,”
Bonnie Herzog, an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York,
wrote today in a note. She recommends buying Lorillard shares
and said, “it could still be a long time until some type of
final resolution is ultimately reached.”  The FDA’s evaluation was expected for some time, Murray Kessler, Lorillard’s chief executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement. Lorillard is encouraged by the comments
“reiterating FDA’s science-based approach and the commitment
and need to conduct rigorous research to ensure that FDA’s
actions, if any, are based on sound science,” Kessler said.  Companies have been waiting on a menthol determination from
the FDA since the agency was given authority by Congress to
regulate the cigarette flavoring under a 2009 law covering
tobacco products. The industry argued in a March 2011 report the
science doesn’t support any claim menthol cigarettes have a
disproportionate impact on public health.  Black Smokers  Altria Chief Executive Officer Martin Barrington told
analysts today on a conference call that he hadn’t reviewed the
FDA report and declined to comment. Reynolds will respond to the
FDA’s notice after reviewing the documents, Maura Payne, a
company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. If the FDA decides to
regulate menthol in cigarettes, Reynolds doesn’t expect “any
impact on the marketplace in the short term” because of the
length of the regulatory process, she said.  Menthol cigarettes probably are associated with increased
dependence and reduced success in smoking cessation, especially
among black smokers, the FDA said in the preliminary evaluation.
The ingredient itself isn’t a danger.  “From the available studies, the weight of evidence
supports the conclusion that menthol in cigarettes is not
associated with an increase in disease risk to the user compared
to non-menthol cigarette smokers,” the FDA said.  The FDA plans to research menthol levels in cigarettes and
assess the different effect minty smokes have on quitting
compared to non-flavored versions. The agency also will study
genetic differences in taste perceptions that may explain why
more black smokers prefer menthols and toxin exposure created by
both types of cigarettes, Zeller said.  “Any decision on menthol under my watch will be based on
rigorous science,” Zeller said.  The 2009 law also gave the FDA the authority to determine
which current tobacco products can remain on the market and
which new ones can be introduced. Lorillard won the first two
clearances from the FDA in June to market new tobacco products
among 500 requests. The agency cleared two non-menthol Gold Box
cigarettes from the tobacco company for sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  