-- Former Tiger Tony Clark Named Deputy Executive Director of MLBPA
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-24T04:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/former-tiger-clark-appointed-deputy-executive-director-of-mlbpa.html
Tony Clark has been named deputy
executive director of the Major League Baseball Players
Association, a new position that will feature more interaction
with union head  Michael Weiner .  Clark, who played 15 MLB seasons, was unanimously approved
yesterday on a conference call, the MLBPA said in an e-mailed
release. Michael Weiner, the union’s executive director, was
diagnosed with an inoperable brain tumor last August and spoke
to reporters from last week’s All-Star Game from a wheelchair.  “I am honored by this appointment and consider it a
privilege to be in a position to work more closely with Michael
Weiner,” Clark, 41, said in the release. “I also look forward
to continue working with all our members and the entire union
staff, and together we will maintain our standing as one of the
best labor organizations in the country.”  Clark joined the  MLBPA  in March 2010 as director of player
relations. In his time with the union, he has helped negotiate
the league’s most recent labor agreement and expanded the
MLBPA’s membership communication and education, the release
said.  “Tony’s rise within the union will come as no surprise to
those who know him,” Weiner said in the release.  “It was
clear from the moment Tony joined the MLBPA that his on-field
experience and passion for the fraternity of players would make
him a tremendous advocate for all who play the game.”  Six Teams  An All-Star in 2001, Clark was a career .262 hitter with
six franchises, including the  Detroit Tigers ,  New York Mets  and
 New York Yankees . He retired during the 2009 season.  As a player Clark was active in the union, first as a team
player representative and later as one of the union’s two
association representatives, the most senior player-leadership
position at the MLBPA. He was involved in collective bargaining
negotiations as a player in 2002 and 2006, as well as talks that
sculpted the league’s current drug policy.  Weiner, 51, succeeded Donald Fehr as the union’s executive
director in 2009. He said last week that his symptoms have
worsened, according to the  Associated Press .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  