-- Forties Trades at Six-Month High; Buzzard Oil Field Output Drops
-- B y   L a u r a   H u r s t   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-07-23T16:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/forties-trades-at-six-month-high-buzzard-oil-field-output-drops.html
Phibro, a unit of  Occidental
Petroleum Corp. (OXY) , sold North Sea Forties crude to  BP Plc (BP/)  at a
six-month high. Socar Trading failed to sell Azeri Light blend
and there were no bids or offers for Russian Urals.  The 200,000 barrel-a-day Buzzard oil field is running at
reduced rates due to scheduled maintenance at the Kinneil
processing terminal in the Firth of Forth, Scotland, according
to two people with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  North Sea  Phibro sold Forties lot F0803 for loading from Aug. 13 to
Aug. 15 to BP at 70 cents a barrel more than Dated Brent,
according to a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers
monitoring the Platts pricing window. That was the highest trade
since Jan. 15, data compiled by Bloomberg News show.  There were no bids or offers for Brent, Oseberg or Ekofisk.
Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time.  Brent for September settlement traded at $108.41 a barrel
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange at the close of the window,
compared with $107.85. The October contract was at $107.53 at
the same time today, a discount of 88 cents to September.  Forties lot F0802 is now scheduled to load Aug. 17 to Aug.
19, eight days later than originally planned, said two people
with knowledge of the matter. The shipment was deferred last
week to load after Aug. 10 to Aug. 12, although the loading
dates were not widely known at that time.  The Nexen Inc.’s Buzzard field is pumping about 185,000
barrels a day of crude, 15,000 less than usual, according to two
people familiar with the matter. Nexen spokeswoman Karen Fordyce
didn’t reply to an e-mailed request for comment today. Output
will probably remain reduced until maintenance at the Kinneil
oil and gas processing plant is completed, the people said.
Scheduled servicing on the facility’s trains 1 and 2 “will put
minor restrictions on offshore output,” BP spokesman Matt
Taylor said by phone from Aberdeen,  Scotland .  The share of Buzzard in Forties blend rose 14 percentage
points to 49 percent in the week ending July 21, the highest
since Dec. 23, BP said on its website today.  Mediterranean/Urals  Socar didn’t manage to sell 600,000 barrels of Azeri Light
for Aug. 3 to Aug. 7 loading at a premium of $3.20 to Dated
Brent, according to the survey.  Iraq resumed crude exports via Turkish port of Ceyhan today
after flows were halted yesterday, North Oil Co. said in a
statement. Pumping rate to rise to normal level of more than
350,000 barrels a day after midday local time. Shipments were
stopped after a leak near Nineveh in northern  Iraq , according to
an earlier North Oil statement.  West Africa  Ghana plans to ship two cargoes of Jubilee crude in
September, one less than next month, a loading program obtained
by Bloomberg news shows. The cargoes are 950,000 barrels each.  CPC Corp.,  Taiwan ’s state-owned oil refiner, is seeking to
buy two cargoes of low-sulfur or sweet crude for delivery or
loading in September and October, according to a tender document
obtained by Bloomberg.  The loading program for benchmark Bonny Light crude hasn’t
been released yet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  