-- French Business Confidence Rises to Highest in 15 Months
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-07-23T10:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/french-business-confidence-increases-to-highest-in-15-months.html
French business confidence rose to
the highest in 15 months in July, indicating that improving
demand is helping to  support an economy  that’s stagnated for the
past two years.  Sentiment (INSESYNT)  among industrial executives increased to 95 in
from 93 in June, national statistics office Insee in Paris said
today. That’s above the reading of 94 that was the median
forecast of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. A broader
index including the services, wholesale and construction
industries climbed to 87 from 86.  The improvement suggests the euro area’s second-largest
economy may be starting to stabilize after it slipped back into
a  recession  this year. With the indexes below their long-term
average, the recovery that President Francois Hollande trumpeted
in his Bastille Day address last week remains elusive.  “The good news is that the recession isn’t getting deeper,
but before talking about a rebound we need to see the tandem of
investment and employment improving,” said Michel Martinez, an
economist at Societe Generale SA in Paris. “We’re not there
yet.”  Insee and the Bank of  France  both estimate that gross
domestic product rose 0.2 percent in the three months through
June after falling in the two previous periods. Insee will
publish its first estimate of second-quarter gross domestic
product on Aug. 14.  Traction Needed  Hollande said July 14 that “the economic recovery is
there,” pointing to improving industrial-production figures in
a bid to bolster confidence. Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici
repeated that assertion today.  “We’re out of the recession,” Moscovici said on Europe 1
radio. “Now what needs to be done is that the recovery needs to
gain traction.”  The  production outlook indicator  climbed to minus 30 in
July from minus 41 in June, according to today’s report from the
statistics office.  The reading is “consistent with a modest increase in
industrial activity early in the third quarter,” Annalisa Piazza, an analyst at Newedge Group in  London , said in a note.
“That said, the indicator remains below the long-term average
of minus 21, a sign that it will take a while for French
activity to reach its potential.”  Economic Forecasts  Economists in a monthly Bloomberg survey published on July
11 estimate that French GDP fell 0.1 percent in the second
quarter and will rise 0.1 percent this quarter. Both the
International Monetary Fund and the European Commission forecast
that the economy will shrink this year.  Paris-based  L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s largest cosmetics
maker, reported second-quarter sales growth this month that
missed analysts’ estimates. It said the European market is
“declining slightly, with a negative southern Europe, and the
rest of Europe remaining more or less stable.”  A euro-area  consumer confidence  index due at 4 p.m.
Brussels time probably rose to minus 18.3 in July from minus
18.8 in June, according to the median forecast of 27 economists
in a Bloomberg survey.  Surveys tomorrow may show that French manufacturing and
services shrank at a slower pace in July. A factory index from
Markit Economics Ltd. rose to 48.8 from 48.4 in June, according
to the median of 18 estimates in a survey. A services gauge
increased to 47.5 from 47.2, a separate poll showed.  Measures for the  euro area  also probably improved this
month, while remaining below the 50 mark that divides expansion
from contraction. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi
forecasts a “gradual recovery” in the 17-nation region by the
end of the year.  Separately today, the Bank of Spain said GDP probably fell
0.1 percent in the second quarter from the previous three
months, when it dropped 0.5 percent. That’s the eight quarterly
contraction. Today’s number exceeds the median estimate of a 0.3
percent decline forecast in a Bloomberg News monthly survey of
economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  