-- GDF Suez to Bid With EDP for Wind-Farm Sites Off Northern France
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-07-23T08:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/gdf-suez-to-bid-with-edp-for-wind-farm-sites-off-northern-france.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  and EDP Renovaveis SA
will jointly bid to develop two 500-megawatt wind projects off
northwestern  France  as the country expands clean-energy output.  The companies, together with third partner  Areva SA (AREVA) , seek
to install turbines off Le Treport and the islands of Yeu and
Noirmoutier, GDF Suez and EDP said in a statement yesterday.  France opened the tender, its second for offshore wind, in
March to attract investment of about 3.5 billion euros ($4.6
billion). The nation, which has no sea-based wind farms, plans
to add 6,000 megawatts of offshore wind, tidal and wave power by
the end of the decade, its deadline for getting 23 percent of
energy from renewables as it scales back nuclear generation.  Bids must be submitted by Nov. 29 to the French energy
regulator, and the government will decide on a winner next year.  GDF Suez also bid for a site at Le Treport in the first
tender last year. It came away empty-handed after submitting an
offer that was “extremely” costly, former Industry Minister
Eric Besson said at the time.  Electricite de France SA , Alstom
SA and Denmark’s Dong Energy A/S were awarded three sites, while
 Spain ’s  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  won a fourth. They’ll need about 7 billion
euros’ investment for 1,920 megawatts, the government estimated.  Renewables accounted for 16 percent of France’s total power
output last year, with most coming from hydro dams, according to
EDF’s grid unit.  EDF Energies Nouvelles, the utility’s renewables division,
and Wpd AG have already announced their intention to bid in the
second round.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  