-- Geodynamics Starts Talks to Supply Power to Chevron, Santos
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-07-23T06:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/geodynamics-starts-talks-to-supply-power-to-chevron-santos.html
Geodynamics Ltd. (GDY) , an explorer
seeking to produce power from hot underground rocks, said  Santos
Ltd. (STO)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , developers of shale gas projects in
central  Australia , are interested in becoming customers.  “Those discussions have commenced,” Geoff Ward, chief
executive officer of Brisbane-based Geodynamics, said today in a
phone interview. “I’ve spoken to those operators, and they are
very positive about acting as initial customers for us. They see
the interest in this as a long-term supply resource.”  Geodynamics expects to sign a customer in six months to 12
months, Ward said. The company is also planning to apply for
funding from Australia’s A$10 billion ($9.3 billion) Clean
Energy Finance Corp. and looking for a new partner after  Origin
Energy Ltd. (ORG)  withdrew from a joint venture this year, he said.  Geodynamics, trying to become the first company in
Australia to operate a commercial geothermal plant, expects to
start with a 5-megawatt to 10-megawatt project in central
Australia’s Cooper Basin. The company plans to use data from a
1-megawatt pilot plant, which started producing power earlier
this year, to form a development proposal for the project.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. energy company, entered
the Australian shale industry in February with an agreement to
pay as much as $349 million to join Adelaide-based  Beach Energy
Ltd. (BPT)  in a project in the Cooper Basin. Adelaide-based Santos is
also among shale gas explorers in the region.  Technical Setbacks  The Santos and Chevron-Beach ventures are the “key
targets” in the search for a customer, Ward said. “If we can
continue to develop it into a material asset play, then it would
be a natural fit with their operations in the Cooper.”  Geodynamics shares  are down 86 percent in the past four
years in Sydney trading, even with an 18 percent increase in
2013. Geodynamics closed unchanged today at 13 cents.  The industry has struggled to overcome technical setbacks
and delays, with geothermal power unlikely to deliver much more
than a “handful” of pilot projects and possibly some plants
with a capacity of as much as 10 megawatts before 2020,
Bloomberg New Energy Finance said in a June 28 report.  Geothermal developers in Australia are using technology
that circulates water through cracks as deep as 5 kilometers
(3.1 miles) underground, turning it to steam to run a turbine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  