-- Global Yatirim Rises Most in a Week on Port Bid: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-07-23T13:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/global-yatirim-rises-most-in-a-week-on-port-bid-istanbul-mover.html
Global Yatirim Holding AS (GLYHO) , a Turkish
group with diversified interests including infrastructure and
energy, rose the most in a week as investors bet its unit will
get the go-ahead to operate a port in  Montenegro .  The stock climbed 2.9 percent, the biggest advance since
July 15, to 1.41 liras at 3:05 p.m. in Istanbul. More than 1.4
million shares traded, 1.3 times the three-month average daily
volume, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark
 Borsa Istanbul National 100 (XU100)  index gained 0.9 percent.  Global Liman Isletmeleri AS, a wholly owned subsidiary, has
completed talks on a contract to acquire a stake in the Port of
Bar in Montenegro, Global Yatirim said in a filing with the
bourse today. The final contract, which involves operating,
financing and repairing the port for 30 years, will be signed
after approval from the government and its asset sales agency,
according to the statement.  “The port carries potential for the company,” Alper Akalin, an analyst at Ekspres Invest in Istanbul, said by phone.
“Investors are taking today’s statement seriously, as it’s a
strong indicator that Global Liman will get the contract.”  The Port of Bar, situated at the entrance of the Adriatic
Sea, has a maximum capacity of one million TEUs container and 6
million tons of general cargo, according to Global’s website. A
TEU is a 20-foot equivalent unit.  The harbor used to be the main port of former  Yugoslavia 
and Global’s initial plan is “to attract back the trade traffic
of Serbia, Kosovo, Albania, Macedonia and  Bulgaria ,” the
company said. Global seeks to buy a 62 percent stake, according
to the website.  Global Yatirim reported a loss of 19.8 million liras ($10.4
million) in the first quarter, compared with a profit of 1.7
million liras in the same period a year ago. Its shares have
gained 15 percent this year, compared with the benchmark index’s
2 percent decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  