-- Goldman Pares 12-Month Commodity Outlook After Crude’s Rally
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-07-23T16:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/goldman-reduces-12-month-commodity-forecast-after-crude-s-rally.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. pared its
12-month commodity return forecast to almost flat after oil
rallied, keeping a neutral recommendation on raw materials while
predicting losses for gold and gains for base metals.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Enhanced Commodity Index will
return 0.1 percent over the period, the New York-based bank said
in a report dated yesterday. That compares with a forecast gain
of 2.3 percent over 12 months in a report on June 12.  The so-called strategic case for holding commodities
remains strong, partly because raw materials are a hedge against
geopolitical risks, analysts led by  Jeffrey Currie  wrote in the
report. Commodities as tracked by the enhanced index advanced to
the highest level since February last week as West Texas
Intermediate crude oil traded at the highest price in 16 months.  “Our current outlook is extremely benign with returns
expected to be mostly flat over the next 12 months,” the
Goldman analysts wrote. Precious metals and agricultural
commodities may drop 8 percent over the period, while base
metals advance 6 percent, the bank said.  Crude in  New York  rallied 11 percent this month through
yesterday, and settled at $108.05 a barrel July 19, the highest
since March 2012. Political upheaval in  Egypt  spurred concern
that unrest may spread, potentially disrupting shipments from
the  Middle East . The U.S., the largest oil consumer, also showed
signs of recovery, helping to boost prices as inventories fell.
WTI traded at $106.89 a barrel today.  UBS’s Outlook  The neutral recommendation from Goldman contrasts with the
position from UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, which rated
commodities as underweight, according to a report on July 2.
Slow economic growth in the U.S. will boost equities more than
raw materials, according to UBS, which is bearish on gold.  Bullion is heading for the first annual drop in 13 years
amid speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will rein in stimulus
as the largest economy improves. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will
trim monthly bond buying to $65 billion in September from $85
billion, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gold in New York may decline to $1,050 an ounce at the end
of 2014, Goldman said, restating a forecast from June 24. Gold
for December delivery traded at $1,335.60 an ounce today. Most-active prices have declined 2 percent in 2013.  Corn will decline this half as increased U.S. acreage
boosts output, bolstering reserves, said Goldman. The 12-month
estimate is $4.75 a bushel, 1.6 percent lower than today. Prices
have retreated 31 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  