-- Gold Imports by India May Slump as Purchases Tied to Exports
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-07-23T11:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/gold-imports-by-india-may-slump-as-purchases-linked-to-exports.html
Gold imports by  India , the world’s
biggest user last year, may plunge after the central bank linked
inbound shipments to exports to cut a record current-account
deficit and stem a decline in the currency.  Overseas purchases may tumble 63 percent to 175 metric tons
in the six months through December from a year earlier, said
Bachhraj Bamalwa, a director at the All India Gems & Jewellery
Trade Federation. The  Reserve Bank of India  announced new rules
late yesterday, making it mandatory for importers to set aside
20 percent for re-exports as jewelry.  The curbs may cause a shortage of bullion in the domestic
market as the country’s average annual exports of gold jewelry
are about 70 tons, Bamalwa said. Consumption in India, which
imports almost all the bullion it uses, was 864.2 tons last
year, according to data from the World Gold Council.  “It would tighten up supply even further than the existing
measures already have,” said Victor Thianpiriya, an analyst at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in  Singapore . “It is
exactly what the government is targeting. It is likely to
further increase smuggling and the cost associated with imports,
so I expect that local prices will climb further.”  India doubled a tax on inbound shipments to 8 percent this
year and curbed financing to tackle a surge in demand after
bullion entered a  bear market  in April. Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram last week appealed to Indians to
moderate demand, while ruling out a complete ban on imports.  Rupee Decline  The  current-account deficit , the broadest measure of trade
tracking goods, services and investment income, widened to $87.8
billion in the year ended March 31 from $78.2 billion in
2011-2012, according to official data. The deficit is the
biggest risk to the $1.9 trillion economy, according to the
central bank. The rupee, which touched a record low of 61.2125
per dollar on July 8, rose as much as 0.4 percent to 59.48 per
dollar today.  The central bank said agencies importing bullion will need
to ensure that at least 20 percent of the shipment be made
available for exports. Importers may supply gold only to the
jewelry business and bullion dealers who sell to the jewelers,
it said in a statement. Importers have to retain 20 percent of
the gold in customs bonded warehouses and will be allowed to
make fresh purchases only after at least 75 percent of the
quantity has been exported, the bank said.  Quantitative Restriction  “You can see a substantial reduction in imports post these
measures because these measures are becoming almost like
quantitative restrictions,” said Samiran Chakraborty, Mumbai-based analyst at Standard Chartered Plc. “It ensures that the
deficit on account of gold doesn’t blow out of proportion. There
is a now a ratio that is prefixed.”  Imports of  gold and silver  fell to $2.45 billion in June
from $8.39 billion a month earlier, government data showed July
12. Consumption in India accounted for 20 percent of global
demand in 2012, according to data from the council.  Gold for delivery in August was little changed at 27,525
($462) rupees on the Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. at
4:26 p.m. in Mumbai. Futures fell to 24,830 rupees per 10 grams
on June 28, the lowest since August 2011. Spot gold in  London 
dropped 0.6 percent to $1,328.07 an ounce.  “The new rules will make it tougher for importers and
jewelers as they will necessarily need to allocate supplies for
exports,” said Gnanasekar Thiagarajan, a director at Commtrendz
Risk Management Services Pvt. “Exporters will have to search
for markets as gold exports are not doing so well at this point
of time.”  Jewelry Exports  Jewelry exports plunged 73 percent to $556.8 million in
June from $2.06 billion a year earlier, according to the  Gem &
Jewellery Export Promotion Council.  Shipments rose 13 percent to
$13.05 billion in the year ended March, council data showed.  While the central bank scrapped curbs on imports on a
consignment basis and restored purchases on credit, the new
measures may prompt banks to discontinue sales of coins and bars
to retail investors.  “Most banks had stopped minting new gold coins after the
government clamped down on imports earlier and they are only
selling old stocks now,” said Suresh Hundia, proprietor of
Hundia Exports Ltd. and a former president of the Bombay Bullion
Association. “Coins sales by banks is as good as stopped.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  