-- Goldman Sachs, LME Dispute Beer Maker on Aluminum Price
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-07-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/goldman-sachs-lme-dispute-beer-maker-on-aluminum-price.html
Goldman (GS)  Sachs Group Inc., the owner
of the one of the biggest U.S. aluminum-warehouse networks, and
the  London  Metal Exchange say commodity prices fell in recent
years, countering claims of rising costs by beverage companies.  “Delivered aluminum prices are nearly 40 percent lower
than they were in 2006,” Goldman said yesterday in a  statement ,
and the LME said there is no “reported shortage” of the metal.  MillerCoors LLC, a  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and Molson Coors Brewing
Co. venture, said at a Senate subcommittee hearing yesterday
that unfair LME rules used by Goldman, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
other warehouse owners boost costs and delay shipments. Senator
 Sherrod Brown , the committee chairman, plans to ask the  Federal
Reserve  to explain why it allows banks to control raw-material
supplies while trading in commodity markets.  “The real question isn’t whether prices have fallen the
past few years, but whether prices are a true reflection of
supply-and-demand conditions,” Jorge Vazquez, a managing
director at  Harbor Intelligence , an Austin, Texas-based research
company, said in a telephone interview after the hearing.
“Looking at the warehouse-business model is relevant.
Significant changes in the system could improve fairness and
efficiency.”  Tim Weiner, a global risk manager at Chicago-based
MillerCoors, said in testimony that Coca-Cola Co. and Dr. Pepper
Snapple Group Inc. share his concerns, along with manufacturers
Novelis Inc. and Ball Corp. This year, MillerCoors will brew and
ship more than 60 million barrels of beer in the U.S. and
package 60 percent in cans and bottles made from aluminum.  Goldman’s Metro  About 95 percent of the aluminum used in manufacturing
comes from producers and dealers outside of the LME warehouse
system, Goldman said. The New York-based bank owns Metro
International Trade Services LLC, which runs the most metal
warehouses in  Detroit . The city accounts for 80 percent of the
U.S. aluminum stockpiles tracked by the LME.  Aluminum prices have fallen 40 percent since July 2008, the
LME said yesterday in an e-mail statement. The exchange said it
is legally restricted from limiting warehouse rents and can’t
prevent trading companies from owning depots.  Global aluminum costs were inflated by $3 billion in the
past year through “unfair” LME rules, Weiner of MillerCoors
said in written testimony before his appearance at the  hearing 
in  Washington . The brewer didn’t specify how it reached that
figure.  Financial Deals  Backlogs have grown as more metal gets tied up in so-called
financing deals, which typically involve the purchase of the
commodity for nearby delivery and a forward sale to take
advantage higher prices in the future.  While prices of aluminum for delivery in three months are
down more than 40 percent since July 2008 on the LME, premiums
charged on metals for immediate delivery surged to a record 12
cents to 13 cents a pound in June, almost doubling from 6.5
cents in the summer of 2010, according to data from Harbor
Intelligence. Premiums slipped this month after the LME
announced new rules intended to cut waiting times.  Large amounts of metal accumulated at some locations as LME
aluminum inventories more than tripled following the financial
crisis, Goldman said in its statement. The bank said that
warehouse companies played an “important role” during the
financial crisis by allowing metal producers, unable to adjust
immediately to changes in demand, to store excess metal.  Goldman Sachs,  JPMorgan (JPM) , Glencore Xstrata Plc and Trafigura
Beheer BV bought storage companies in 2010.  ‘Massive Oversupply’  Warehouse owners authorized to hold aluminum by the LME
have created artificial limits on available supply, leaving
prices “inflated relative to the massive oversupply and record
production,” Weiner said.  Storage practices that have driven premiums higher forced
aluminum users to wait more than 18 months in some cases for
delivery, he said.  JPMorgan,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Goldman are among the lenders
whose commodity trading is in jeopardy as the Fed reconsiders
letting banks ship oil and store metal. The central bank says
it’s reviewing a decade-old ruling to let deposit-taking banks
trade physical raw materials.  A “thoughtful review” of commodity warehousing is needed,
based on how users say it is affecting markets, said  Bart Chilton , a commissioner at the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.  CFTC Letter  The regulator, in a letter to companies, asked them not to
destroy any documents relating to warehouses registered by
exchanges such as the LME or Chicago Mercantile Exchange dating
to January 2010, according to a copy of the letter obtained by
Bloomberg.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388)  bought the LME for $2.2
billion last year. The market in London is the biggest for
aluminum, copper and other industrial metals.  Aluminum prices for delivery in three months fell 0.1
percent to settle at $1,845.50 a metric ton yesterday on the
LME. The price has dropped 11 percent this year.  Randall Guynn, the head of the financial institutions
group at law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, said at the hearing
that banks probably boost commodity-market liquidity. Congress
and the Fed, which examined bank involvement in raw materials,
found that “the public benefits of these activities outweigh
their potential adverse effects,” Guynn said in his testimony.  The banks own and control a wide range of energy assets,
from fuel terminals to crude-oil tankers to solar-power plants.
Goldman has contracts to buy fuel from at least five U.S.
refineries, totaling 586,200 barrels a day in capacity. Morgan
Stanley’s  TransMontaigne Partners LP (TLP)  runs oil terminals across
the U.S., and JPMorgan has rights to electricity from three
Southern  California  power plants.  “I don’t know why that’s a bad thing,”  David Hackett , the
president of energy consultant Stillwater Associates in  Irvine ,
California, said in a telephone interview. “It adds
liquidity.”  Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley,
referred to company regulatory filings that said the bank didn’t
expect to have to divest any of its businesses after a grace
period given by the Fed ends in September. He declined to
elaborate or to comment on the Fed’s announced rule review.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment on the review.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  