-- Google, Novozymes, Disney Printng: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-23T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/google-novozymes-disney-printng-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  won a
U.S. appeals court ruling in a case of a former university
researcher who claimed his patents covered some of the
Internet’s most basic interactive functions.  The two patents owned by  Eolas Technologies Inc.  of Tyler,
 Texas , and the University of California are invalid, the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  ruled
yesterday. The decision, issued without a formal opinion,
upholds a jury verdict won by Google, Amazon.com, JC Penney Co.
and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  last year in Tyler.  Eolas founder Michael Doyle claimed functions including
music clips, search features, maps and embedded applications
used his inventions. Tim Berners-Lee, the British computer
scientist credited with inventing the World Wide Web, was among
those testifying against him in the trial.  Eolas, in court papers, claimed the patents covered
inventions that “took the Web from a primitive and static world
to today’s seamlessly interactive environment.”  In its own filing with the court, Mountain View,
California-based Google and Plano, Texas-based JC Penney said
Eolas’s claim was a “fantastic assertion” rejected by the jury
“after hearing from the scientists who are actually responsible
for that achievement, including the father of the World Wide
Web.”  More than a dozen companies had been named in the original
complaint, including Apple Inc.,  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and Citigroup Inc.
Most settled before the trial. Cases against Facebook Inc., Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  were stayed pending appeal.  In 2003, Eolas won a $521 million verdict against Microsoft
Corp. that was thrown out on appeal for a retrial on the
validity of the patents. The two companies settled before a new
trial could be held.  The case is Eolas Technologies v. Amazon.com Inc., 12-1632,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court case is Eolas Technologies Inc. v.  Adobe Systems
Inc. (ADBE) , 09-cv-00446, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Texas (Tyler).  Novozymes Loses Appeals Court Bid to Revive Danisco Verdict  Novozymes A/S (NZYMB)  lost its appeals court bid to revive an $18
million patent-infringement verdict against DuPont Co.’s Danisco
unit over an enzyme used in biofuel production.  A Novozymes patent for an enzyme that remains active in
high temperatures is invalid because it doesn’t describe what
the company claims to have invented, the Washington-based U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit said in an opinion
posted on its website.  In dispute was patent 7,713,723, which was issued in May
2010, the same month in which Novozymes filed the infringement
suit in federal court in Madison,  Wisconsin .  The appeals court affirmed a trial judge’s decision to
throw out the jury verdict.  The lower court case is Novozymes A/S v. Danisco A/S, 3:10-cv-00251-BBC, U.S. District Court, Western District of Wisconsin
(Madison). The appeal is Novozymes A/S v. DuPont Nutrition
Biosciences, 12-01433, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Castel Group Loses Chinese Trademark Fight Over ‘Kasite’ Mark  Castel Group, the French beverage maker, registered a new
Chinese trademark after losing a trademark dispute with a
Chinese wine distributor, Decanter  reported .  The French company had used “Kasite” as a Chinese
translation of its name on labels for wine it began bottling in
 China  in 1999, according to Decanter.  In 1998  Panati Wine , the company owned by Chinese
entrepreneur Li Daozhi, registered “Kasite” as a Chinese
trademark and sued Castel for trademark infringement in 2009,
according to Decanter.  The Zhejiang Provincial Higher people’s Court barred
Castel’s use of “Kasite,” levied a fine of 33.73 million
Chinese  renminbi  ($5.5 million), and ordered the company to
issue a public policy through a Chinese business publication,
Decanter reported.  Taiwan District Will Use Folk Icon to Promote Regional Identity  A district in Taiwan’s Kaohsiung region has registered the
name of a Taoist folk icon as a trademark as a way to promote
the area, which lacks the kind of specialty agricultural
products often identified with a region, the Taipei Times
 reported .  The Saimin District registered “Third Happy Prince” as a
trademark and then sponsored a public competition for the
creation of a modern image of the character, according to the
newspaper.  A cartoon figure was selected and his image includes the
district’s landscape as a background, the Times reported.  Taiwan ’s Ministry of Economic Affairs Intellectual Property
Office approved the mark July 19, and the image will be used for
school bags, clothing and related items, according to the
newspaper.  Russian Patent Office Says Nyet to Boozy Trademark for Vodka  Russian officials rejected a trademark application for a
new brand of vodka because it alludes to heavy drinking, the
Moscow Times  reported .  The “Vyp/Buhalo” mark sought by Rusinvest “contravenes
public interest and moral principles,” the Russian Patent
Agency said in its rejection notice, according to the newspaper.  “‘Vyp” sounds like a colloquial Russian expression
meaning “bottoms up,” and “Buhalo” resembles a Russian word
for “booze,” according to the Moscow Times.  The patent agency previously refused to register a phrase
that colloquially means “delirium tremens.” That brand --
“Belochka. Ya prishla” -- got so much media attention over the
refusal that it was named the brand of the year in May, the
newspaper reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Artist Prints 3D Mickey Mouse, Challenges Disney IP Rights  An artist and researcher at the U.K.’s Goldsmith College is
using 3D scanning and printing to challenge the intellectual
property policies of the Walt Disney Co.  Matthew Plummer-Fernandez “uses scanning, digital
fabrication and computational approaches to making artifacts,
both physical and digital, that blur the distinction between the
two, referencing the digitization of the everyday,” according
to  the biography  posted on his website.  He has created several small figures of Disney’s iconic
Mickey Mouse, using a powder composite and tinted binder. The
figures are fabricated by scanning and remixing the data derived
from the scan, according to his artist’s statement.  Plummer-Fernandez said he deliberately chose Mickey Mouse
as his subject in order to raise “issues of potential clashes
with big copyright holders that could potentially choose to
lobby for legislation against 3D scanning.’  Disney was a company of particular interest, he said, for
“paradoxically pioneering remix culture by creating their own
versions of public domain characters such as Snow White and
Cinderella, and yet the company take a hostile approach against
any attempts to copy their own creations.”  One of his figures -- “ sekuMoi Mecy ” -- is a distorted
figure covered in small geometric patterns in red and blue. The
name of his Mickey Mouse pieces comes from a computer-generated
anagram, he said.  The other figure is “ sekuMoi Mecy 3; Smooth() Operator ,”
generated using what he called a “mesh smoothing technique
pushed to the extreme.” That piece’s contours are deliberately
much less detailed than the first.  “Blurring images has become both a widely recognized
cultural aesthetic,” he said. It is “also used to obscure the
identity of persons photographed or filmed,” he said.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Seagate Technology Wins Back $630 Million Trade-Secrets Award  Seagate Technology LLC won reinstatement of a $630.4
million arbitration judgment against  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  over
allegations of misappropriation of trade secrets.  An arbitrator awarded Dublin-based Seagate $525 million
plus interest in 2011 against  Irvine , California-based Western
Digital and a Western employee, Sining Mao, who previously
worked at Seagate. Some of the defendants’ evidence was
fabricated on three trade secrets, the arbitrator found,
entering a judgment against Western and Mao as a sanction.  A state court judge set aside the award in October, finding
that the arbitrator didn’t consider any evidence by the
defendants countering the allegations.  Minnesota ’s Court of
Appeals reinstated the arbitrator’s judgment yesterday.  “The district court erred by determining that the
arbitrator did not have authority to impose sanctions,” the
appellate court said. “The district court should not have
reviewed the merits of the arbitrator’s decision.”  The appellate case is Seagate Technology LLC v. Western
Digital Corp., A12-1944, Minnesota Court of Appeals (St. Paul).
The lower-court case is Seagate Technology LLC v. Western
Digital Corp., 27-cv-06-1900, District Court, Hennepin County,
Minnesota ( Minneapolis ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  