-- Greek Payment Decision Delayed as EU Awaits Implementation
-- B y   B i r g i t   J e n n e n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-07-23T16:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/greek-payment-decision-delayed-as-eu-awaits-implementation.html
A decision on releasing  Greece ’s
next bailout payment was delayed as the European Commission
awaits confirmation from the government in  Athens  on enacting 
required reform measures, the German Finance Ministry said.  Euro-area finance officials had planned to discuss
unlocking the next payment in a teleconference tomorrow. With
five measures outstanding, the deadline for German lawmakers to
assess the latest report by the so-called troika of assessors
will now be extended to July 29, Deputy German Finance Minister
Steffen Kampeter said in a letter to members of the lower house
Budget Committee obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Greece has confirmed the implementation of 17 of 22 “prior
actions,” or steps to ensure the country’s next bailout
payment, Kampeter said in the letter, dated today. An update on
Greece’s progress in meeting the other five measures will take
place tomorrow, Kampeter said. The measures were not spelled
out.  “The European Commission informed us today that the
assessment and implementation of the five further prior actions
are not yet complete,” Kampeter said in the letter, which was
confirmed by the ministry. “Work on this is ongoing.”  Euro-area finance ministers have committed to pay 2.5
billion euros ($3.3 billion) this month and 500 million euros in
October.  The  International Monetary Fund  will also meet on July 29
to discuss the Greek payment, Kampeter said. The troika of
creditors is comprised of the EU Commission, the IMF and the
 European Central Bank .  The Greek Finance Ministry declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  