-- Growthpoint to Sell Shares to Fund Future Property Purchases
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-07-23T09:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/growthpoint-to-sell-shares-to-fund-future-property-purchases.html
Growthpoint Properties Australia (GOZ) ,
controlled by  South Africa ’s largest real estate company, plans
to sell shares to fund expected acquisitions this year as it
seeks alternatives to bank debt.  Raising capital through equity will reduce the listed real
estate investment trust’s gearing, the ratio of debt to assets,
to as low as 40 percent from 46.9 percent currently, Chief
Executive Officer Tim Collyer said by telephone yesterday. A
lower debt ratio would allow it to seek an investment-grade
credit rating of BBB- or above and lengthen its debt-to-maturity
duration to as much as 10 years, he said.  Growthpoint,  63 percent owned  by Johannesburg-based
 Growthpoint Properties Ltd. (GRT)  and formed from Orchard Industrial
Property Fund in August 2009, has expanded its market value
three-fold to A$959 million ($888 million) and doubled assets to
A$1.7 billion since June 2010. The company last month extended
its average debt maturity to 4.3 years from 2.6 years through a
new pact with lenders.  “We hope to do more transactions this year,” Collyer said
from  Melbourne . “We certainly have people interested in
investing but we have to go out and raise the capital.”  Growthpoint plans to raise equity from external investors,
ultimately reducing the South African parent’s holding to as low
as 50.1 percent, Collyer said.  Other REITs, including Stockland and  Mirvac Group , which
raised A$400 million each, and Cromwell Property Group, which
drew A$250 million have also sought capital this year.  Growthpoint’s shares have risen 8.6 percent this year,
compared with a 4.9 percent increase in the S&P/ASX 200 A-REIT
index.  Industrial Properties  The company is focused on adding to its industrial
properties following the acquisition in December of three
warehouses in western Sydney for A$104.7 million from logistics
company Linfox Group, which will develop and lease them. The
property trust expects to increase the weighting of industrial
assets to about 56 percent of its properties within 18 months
from about 52 percent now, Collyer said.  Growthpoint is reviewing industrial assets held by
 Australand Property Group (ALZ) ’s unlisted fund, he said. Investors in
Australand’s wholesale industrial fund in June rejected a
proposal to wind up the fund, and approved a plan for the
company to continue operating the fund while considering other
exit strategies including a sale of the properties.  “That’s just one of a number of investments that we’ll
review,” he said. “We hope to do more transactions this year.
It’s dependent on us finding the right opportunities and
agreeing a good price with the vendor.”  Growthpoint joins Australian REITs including Stockland,  GPT
Group (GPT)  and  Charter Hall Group (CHC)  in seeking more industrial
properties, primarily modern facilities in locations close to
transport networks. The rising demand amid tight supply of prime
properties will see yields for these assets drop to as low as 7
percent by the end of 2013, from about 7.5 percent now, Collyer
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  