-- Ibovespa Rises as CSN Leads Brazilian Steelmaker Rally on China
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-07-23T20:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/ibovespa-futures-advance-as-china-buoys-brazilian-export-outlook.html
The Ibovespa  rose  to a one-month
high as Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA led gains in steelmakers on
speculation that  China , Brazil’s top trading partner, will take
measures to shore up growth.  Companies controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista  including
 LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)  and  MMX Mineracao e Metalicos SA  were among the
best performers on the benchmark index.  Duratex SA (DTEX3) , a maker of
wood panels and metal fixtures including faucets, climbed after
second-quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates. Phone company Oi
SA snapped a three-day rally.  The Ibovespa climbed 0.5 percent to 48,819.52 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo. Thirty-six stocks rose on the gauge
while 33 dropped. The real appreciated 0.9 percent to 2.2132 per
dollar at 5:28 p.m. local time. Chinese stocks gained as Beijing
News cited Premier Li Keqiang as saying at a recent meeting with
economists that the country’s “bottom line” for growth is 7
percent.  “The comments from Li Keqiang put investors in a better
mood, given how much  Brazil  depends on China,” Luis Gustavo Pereira, an analyst at Futura Corretora brokerage, said by phone
from Sao Paulo. “A stronger real is also good in terms of
keeping inflation under control, at least for now.”  CSN, as Siderurgica Nacional is also known, advanced 3
percent to 6.49 reais. Gerdau SA, another steelmaker, added 2.6
percent to 14.27 reais.  ‘Fire Sale’  LLX, Batista’s port developer, added 8.7 percent to 1 real.
MMX jumped 12 percent to 1.67 reais. OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA gained 1.9 percent to 54 centavos. The
billionaire is expected to offer most assets for sale,
triggering interest from buyers that may include Singapore-based
Keppel Corp. and Duesseldorf, Germany-based EON SE, according to
UBS AG.  Batista’s holding company, EBX Group Co., “seems to us to
be in such financial difficulty that suggestions of a fire sale
appear to make sense,” UBS analysts including Lilyanna Yang
wrote in the note to clients titled, “Is there anything left
for EBX investors?”  EBX and EON declined to comment. E-mail messages sent after
regular working hours in Asia to Keppel press officials weren’t
answered.  Duratex climbed 4.6 percent to 14.07 reais, the highest
since June 3. Adjusted net income rose to 130.7 million reais
($58.8 million) from a year earlier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg after the company released results yesterday after
the close of markets. That compares with an average estimate of
129 million reais among four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Oi sank 4.1 percent to 4.40 reais, after gaining 32 percent
in the previous three sessions.  Trading Volume  The Ibovespa slumped 20 percent this year through
yesterday, wiping out $218 billion from the  value  of Brazilian
equities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Brazil’s main
equity gauge trades at 12.3 times analysts’  earnings estimates 
for the next four quarters, compared with 10.5 for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 5.67 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.74 billion reais this year
through July 19, according to data  compiled  by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  