-- Icahn Urges Dell Board Committee to Proceed With Vote on Buyout
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-07-23T19:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/icahn-urges-dell-board-committee-to-proceed-with-vote-on-buyout.html
Carl Icahn , the activist investor
who is trying to derail a $24.4 billion leveraged buyout of  Dell
Inc. (DELL) , urged the special board committee considering the deal to
hold a shareholder vote tomorrow as scheduled.  “We think that –- after six months –- the time for
soliciting is over,” Icahn and two Southeastern Asset
Management Inc. executives wrote in a letter to the committee
that was distributed in a statement. “It’s time to vote. Do not
move election day again. This is not a  banana republic .”  Dell founder  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake Management LLC
have offered $13.65 a share to take the personal-computer maker
private. A vote on the deal that was originally scheduled for
July 18 was adjourned and set for tomorrow. Icahn’s letter today
addressed a New York Post report that Dell may delay the vote
again as it seeks to gain more time to persuade  shareholders  to
approve the buyout.  In the open letter, also signed by Southeastern’s Mason Hawkins and Staley Cates, Icahn called the company’s board
“unconscionable” and charged Chief Executive Officer Dell with
employing “scare tactics” to obtain shareholder votes.  The letter is Icahn’s latest jab in the six-month fight
over the struggling PC maker. The billionaire, who owns an 8.7
percent stake in Dell, has pushed for months for the founder to
raise his bid and has offered his own proposal. Icahn’s rival
offer of $14 would allow Dell shareholders to retain equity in a
publicly traded portion of the company, plus a warrant that
could be exchanged for additional stock should Dell climb higher
than $20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in  New York  at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  