-- Michigan Wins Delay of Detroit Bankruptcy Challenge
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-07-23T20:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/michigan-obtains-delay-of-challenge-to-detroit-bankruptcy-filing.html
Michigan officials won a
postponement of a state judge’s ruling that  Detroit ’s bankruptcy
filing in federal court violated the state’s constitution,
pending a consideration of Michigan’s appeal.  Detroit filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy July 18, the biggest
bid for court protection by a U.S. city. Michigan Circuit Court
Judge Rosemarie E. Aquilina in Lansing ruled minutes after the
filing that Governor  Rick Snyder  couldn’t authorize further
actions that would impair or diminish public pension benefits,
citing the Michigan constitution.  The next day, Aquilina further ordered Snyder to direct
Detroit emergency manager Kevyn Orr to immediately withdraw the
bankruptcy petition. State officials appealed the orders and the
Michigan Court of Appeals granted their motion for immediate
consideration today.  “The circuit court’s July 18, 2013, and July 19, 2013,
temporary restraining orders and all further proceedings are
stayed pending resolution of this appeal or further order of
this court,” a three-judge panel said in today’s ruling.  An initial hearing in the bankruptcy case is scheduled for
tomorrow in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit. Traditionally, a
bankruptcy filing stops litigation against a debtor or attempts
to seek payment, and a federal judge wouldn’t be required to
defer to a state court ruling.  Three Lawsuits  Aquilina’s orders came in response to three lawsuits in
 Michigan  state court seeking a finding that a bankruptcy filing
would conflict with the state’s constitutional protection of
public retirees’ rights.  The General Retirement System and the Police and Fire
Retirement System of the City of Detroit sued Snyder and Orr
July 17, contending that Article IX, section 24, of the Michigan
constitution bars any government in the state from reducing
pension benefits.  The suit was filed on behalf of the plans and more than
32,000 active and retired Detroit employees. Two similar
lawsuits were filed by individual retirees in the same court
earlier this month against Snyder and Michigan Treasurer Andy
Dillon.  Under the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , the city and its officials
are entitled to halt most court proceedings against them during
the bankruptcy case. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven W. Rhodes in
Detroit yesterday agreed to consider the city’s request to
extend the protection to unspecified “state entities.”  Ronald King, attorney for the Detroit pension funds, and
attorney John Canzano, who filed another of the challenges,
didn’t immediately return calls for comment on the ruling.  The challenges include General Retirement System of Detroit
v. Emergency Manager of Detroit, 317284, Court of Appeals, State
of Michigan. The bankruptcy case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of Michigan
(Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  