-- Time Warner Cable, CBS Extend Deadline to July 25 for Deal
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-07-23T16:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/time-warner-cable-cbs-extend-deadline-to-july-25-for-new-deal.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and CBS Corp.
extended negotiations on a new agreement to keep carrying the
television network on the second-largest U.S. cable provider.  The new deadline for the talks is July 25 at 9 a.m.  New
York  time, compared with an earlier cutoff of midnight tomorrow,
the companies said. The date was changed because the July sweeps
season, when ratings help determine advertising prices, ends
early on July 25, according to  Maureen Huff , a Time Warner Cable
spokeswoman.  The companies are clashing as New York-based CBS, the
highest-rated broadcast channel, seeks higher fees for the right
to retransmit its programming. That’s putting pressure on pay-TV
companies such as Time Warner Cable, which must decide whether
to absorb the higher costs or pass them on to consumers and face
a backlash.  There remains a “very real threat that Time Warner Cable
is going to drop our stations in New York,  Los Angeles  and
Dallas,” CBS Chief Executive Officer Les Moonves said in a memo
to employees today.  Time Warner Cable Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt has
threatened to drop networks that “cost too much relative to
viewership.”  CBS (CBS)  doesn’t fall into this category because “we
carry our own weight,” Moonves said.  CBS has asked for prices 600 percent higher than other
affiliates receive for the same programming, according to New
York-based Time Warner Cable.  Popular Shows  CBS programs, including “The Big Bang Theory” and “60
Minutes,” are “among the most popular in the industry” and
deserve a rate increase, Moonves said in the memo.  Retransmission fees have become a frequent sticking point
in negotiations between pay-TV providers and broadcasters. CBS’s
retransmission revenue jumped 62 percent in its most recently
reported quarter, which ended in March, from a year earlier.  “We are willing to pay for CBS, and we have offered them
significant fees,” Huff said. “But their current demands don’t
represent a good value for our customers.”  Time Warner Cable told the New York Times this week its
customers have the option to watch CBS with the New York-based
online service Aereo Inc. if the sides can’t reach a deal. Aereo
charges $8 a month for online access to broadcast channels.  CBS has successfully negotiated deals with other large pay-TV providers including Comcast Corp.,  DirecTV (DTV) ,  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH)  and  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , Moonves said. Time Warner
Cable is “unique in its aggressive approach,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  