-- India’s Solar Developers Object to Retroactive Tariff Cut
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-07-24T05:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/india-s-solar-developers-object-to-retroactive-tariff-cut.html
SunBorne Energy Holdings LLC, backed
by billionaire  Vinod Khosla ,  Moser Baer India Ltd. (MBI) , and three
other companies asked a regulator to dismiss an attempt by the
government of the Indian state of Gujarat to cut the tariff paid
for solar power.  The five solar project developers argued for the dismissal
at a hearing held by the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory
Commission yesterday saying such a move would violate laws,
according to Hemant Sahai, a lawyer representing the group.  The developers are objecting to measures proposed by
Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd., the state-run bulk buyer of solar
power, which submitted a petition to the regulator this month
requesting a 28 percent cut in the rate it pays for electricity
from solar plants. The move in Gujarat, home to more than half
of  India ’s solar power capacity, adds to the number of
jurisdictions including  Greece ,  Spain , Romania and the  Czech
Republic  working on cuts for solar power.  The developers say their 25-year power purchase agreements
with GUVNL, signed in 2010, don’t allow for tariff revisions. By
law, the contracts can only be revisited in order to boost
electricity generation, by mutual consent, or if the developers
fail to build their projects on time, according to a copy of a
written submission by the solar companies.  GUVNL Managing Director Raj Gopal didn’t respond to phone
calls and e-mails seeking comment. GUVNL in its petition said it
wants to reduce the tariff for 88 projects comprising 971.5
megawatts of solar capacity because of “unjustified and
windfall gains” by the owners, which include  Adani Enterprises
Ltd. (ADE)  and  Tata Power Co. (TPWR)   Next Hearing  The Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission will hold its
next hearing on the matter on Aug. 5. Then, other project
developers will be heard and GUVNL will have a chance to
respond, Sahai said in a phone interview late yesterday.  The regulator set the tariff in January 2010 after
consultations between the industry and government. Gujarat state
regulations allow a tariff order to be challenged within 60
days. GUVNL has no legal ground to contest the tariff more than
three years later, according to the developers.  Any profits made don’t give GUVNL the right to backtrack on
the contracts, they said in the submission to the regulator.  “It is a settled economic principle, as recognized by
judicial precedents, that each project involves a bundle of
risks,” they said. “Where an investor assumes such bundle of
risks, he is entitled to whatever returns that he is able to
make.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  