-- India to Boost Spending Seven-Fold to Map Water Aquifers
-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2013-07-23T11:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/india-to-boost-spending-seven-fold-to-map-water-aquifers.html
India , the second-most populous
nation, will boost spending to map underground water resources
more than seven-fold to 33 billion rupees ($552 million) as the
overuse of wells depletes aquifers, an official said.  “This increase in spending is unheard of,” Sushil Gupta,
chairman of Central Ground Water Board, said today in New Delhi.
“But it was required. Now we need to shift our focus on not
just development but also management.” India spent 4.5 billion
rupees in the five years ended April 2012 on groundwater in
comparison, he said.  Mapping aquifers, or underground reservoirs, is expected to
help India better manage crop usage and ensure drinking water
for its population. The water board plans to raise the scale of
geographic area to be mapped from 1:250,000 to 1:50,000 for more
accurate readings, Gupta said. Data will be made available
publicly for farmers to improve water-resource management and
for companies’ planning strategies, he said.  At least 85 percent of India’s villages and half of its
cities rely on wells for water. Farming accounts for about 90
percent of water withdrawals in India, with irrigated acreage
almost tripling since 1950. The government’s goal is to avert a
water crisis in a country where agriculture accounts for 20
percent of the $1.9 trillion economy, Mihir Shah, member of the
Planning Commission that sets five-year targets for economic
growth, said last year.  Groundwater Loss  India lost groundwater supplies equal to more than twice
the capacity of  Lake Mead , the biggest U.S. reservoir located in
Nevada and  Arizona , because of indiscriminate use from
2002-2008, according to a U.S. National Aeronautical and Space
Agency study.  Gupta also heads the  Central Ground Water Authority 
established by India’s government to regulate pumping from
aquifers. Groundwater hasn’t been developed evenly across India,
and exploitation has led to a drop in water levels and seawater
intrusion in some areas, according to the Ministry of Water
Resources. Of  5,723 sites  assessed, it said 839 are “over-exploited,” 226 “critical” and 550 “semi-critical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Archana Chaudhary in New Delhi at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  