-- India Tightens Banks’ Access to Cash to Stem Rupee Plunge
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-07-23T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/india-tightens-banks-access-to-cash-to-stem-plunge-in-rupee.html
India moved to tighten banks’ access
to cash a week after it increased two interest rates, stepping
up efforts to support the rupee after the currency plunged to a
record low earlier this month.  The  Reserve Bank  of India  capped  banks’ access to cash
under the liquidity adjustment facility to 0.5 percent of their
own net demand and time liabilities beginning today, it said
in a statement. The central bank also raised the daily balance
requirement for the  cash reserve ratio  to 99 percent from 70
percent, effective July 27. It also separately announced an
auction of cash management bills totaling 60 billion rupees ($1
billion) on July 25.  “The redesign and tweaking of measures in quick succession
shows the RBI’s serious resolve to check rupee weakness,” said
Shubhada Rao, chief economist at  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)  in Mumbai. “It
does not want any entrenchment of the view that rupee weakness
will persist.”  The central bank on July 15 raised two  interest rates ,
capped its daily fund injections via repo contracts and moved to
drain money from the economy through bond sales, joining
emerging nations from  Brazil  to Indonesia in tightening policy
to steady currencies.  The rupee has slumped 9 percent in the past three months
versus the dollar, hurt by a record current-account deficit and
reduced demand for emerging-market assets. The currency, which
touched an all-time low of 61.2125 on July 8, declined 0.1
percent yesterday to 59.765 per dollar.  The recent moves by Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao
contrast with his decisions to lower the benchmark repurchase
rate by 25 basis points each in January, March and May to 7.25
percent, in a bid to fight the weakest economic growth in a
decade. Subbarao left the repurchase rate unchanged in June and
the central bank is next set to announce policy rates July 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  