-- Rupee Volatility Drops on Gold Curbs, U.S. Stimulus Optimism
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-23T13:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/indian-rupee-gains-on-gold-import-curbs-u-s-stimulus-optimism.html
Volatility in  India ’s rupee fell to
the lowest level in more than a month after the central bank
tightened restrictions on gold imports to curb the current-account deficit and as an unexpected decline in U.S. home sales
eased concern the  Federal Reserve  will trim stimulus.  Demand for the metal rises in August through November as
Indian consumers buy gold products for gifts during the festival
season. At least 20 percent of every lot of imported gold must
be made available for export, the  Reserve Bank  of India said in
a statement yesterday. Sales of previously owned U.S. homes
dropped 1.2 percent in June, bolstering the case for the Fed to
maintain stimulus that drove demand for emerging-market assets.
The spot rupee reversed earlier gains.  The gold curbs will have only a “muted” impact on India’s
current-account gap as  oil prices  are rising, said Andy Ji, a
strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  in Singapore. Bouts
of rupee-strength “will not be significant and sustained,” he
said.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 50 basis
points, or 0.50 percentage point, to 10.91 percent, the lowest
closing level since June 17, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rupee declined 0.1 percent in the  spot market  to
59.7650 per dollar in Mumbai, according to prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg. The currency dropped to a record
61.2125 on July 8.  The shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure
of trade, widened to an unprecedented 4.8 percent of gross
domestic product in the year ended March 31, official data show.  Gold Shortage  The gold-import measures will cause a shortage of the metal
during the festival season, according to the All India Gems &
Jewellery Trade Federation, which estimates annual gold-product
exports at 70 metric tons.  “It’s like a ban,” Bachhraj Bamalwa, a director at the
federation, said in an interview. “Nobody will import gold with
this kind of restrictions.”  Brent crude prices climbed 6 percent this month after
rising 1.8 percent in June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. India ships in about 80 percent of its oil and is the
world’s largest consumer of gold.  India met its target yesterday to sell foreign investors
permits giving them the right to purchase 236.6 billion rupees
($4 billion) of local-currency sovereign bonds. Global funds cut
holdings of the notes on all but two days since Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  first signaled a potential paring of stimulus May
22.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards weakened 0.4 percent to
61.04 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts fell 0.4 percent to 60.97. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  