-- Indonesia Investment Rises at Slower Pace on Growth Concerns
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-07-23T06:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/indonesia-investment-rises-at-slower-pace-on-growth-concerns.html
Indonesia ’s investment growth slowed
last quarter and foreign firms are expected to turn more
cautious this year, the country’s investment chief said.  Total investment climbed 29.8 percent to 99.8 trillion
rupiah ($9.8 billion) in the three months ended June 30 from a
year earlier, the Investment Coordinating Board said in a
statement in Jakarta today. In the first six months of 2013,
investment rose 30.2 percent to 192.8 trillion rupiah from a
year earlier.  The  World Bank  cut its 2013 forecast for Indonesian  growth 
to 5.9 percent this month. Policymakers in  Southeast Asia ’s
largest economy are also struggling to contain inflation and a
current-account deficit that has weakened the currency to a
four-year low.  “Foreign direct investment may slow in the second half due
to global conditions,” Chatib Basri, chairman of the investment
board and also the finance minister, told reporters in Jakarta
today. “Domestic demand may slow down on higher  interest rates 
to curb inflation expectations,” he said.  Foreign investment rose 18.9 percent to 66.7 trillion
rupiah last quarter from a year earlier, versus 27.2 percent
growth in the first quarter. Domestic investment quickened to
grow 59.1 percent to 33.1 trillion rupiah.  Investment and domestic demand from the world’s fourth
largest population have helped keep economic growth above 6
percent in the past three years. Gross domestic product is
expected to increase 6.05 percent this year, the slowest pace
since 2009, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The central bank has raised benchmark interest rates by a
total 75 basis points in June and July to check  inflation  that
it expects to accelerate to above 7 percent this year after the
government lifted subsidized fuel prices in June.  The rupiah is among the worst performers in  Asia  in the
past year, and plunged the most in 13 months today, as the
central bank allows a more rapid slide toward levels quoted in
the offshore market. Fund investor outflows have picked up since
the U.S. Federal Reserve said in May it would taper stimulus.  “Investors remain unconvinced of the rupiah outlook and
the nation’s current-account-deficit fundamentals,” Greg Gibbs,
a Singapore-based foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc, said before the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  