-- Indonesia Prepares Cloud Seeding as Haze Returns
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-07-24T07:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/indonesia-prepares-cloud-seeding-as-haze-returns.html
Indonesia has prepared planes to
artificially induce rain as neighboring  Singapore  and  Malaysia 
raised concern that a resurgence in Sumatran forest fires has
begun engulfing parts of  Southeast Asia  with  haze  again.  Satellite images showed the number of fire hotspots in the
Sumatran province of Riau rose to 185 today from 165 yesterday,
Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, a spokesman for Indonesia’s disaster
management agency, said by text message. With August to October
the peak period for forest fires, six planes have been readied
for cloud-seeding and soldiers placed on standby to be deployed
as fire-fighters, the agency said in a July 22 statement.  “Haze is shrouding Riau causing visibility to drop,”
Nugroho said in the statement, adding that water bombing of
fires was already underway. “This condition is disrupting
flights in and out of Pekanbaru,” he said, referring to the
provincial capital.  The returning haze will test  Indonesia ’s resolve to combat
illegal forest blazes after the nation rejected a request last
week to make available to the public maps of plantation
concessions in fire-prone areas. Singapore and Malaysia, where
air pollution reached hazardous levels in June, have been
plagued for decades by periodic smog caused by clouds of ash
drifting from Sumatra, with regular spats over responsibility.  Indonesia sent more than 3,000 soldiers, marines and air
force officers to fight forest fires in June, helping quell
Singapore’s worst smog in 16 years. The number of fire hotspots
dropped after cloud-seeding planes released chemicals into the
air to induce rain.  Digitized Maps  Malaysia wrote to Indonesia registering concern over the
returning haze, its environment ministry said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday, as air pollution climbed to unhealthy
levels in three parts of the country. Singapore has similarly
sought an “urgent” update on efforts to tackle the fires, its
environment agency said July 22.  Air pollution eased in Malaysia’s states of Malacca, Johor
and Selangor today, though climbed to an unhealthy level in part
of Perak, according to Department of Environment readings at 1
p.m. local time. About 99 percent of Indonesian estate and
forest fires are caused by people burning land, Nugroho said in
the statement.  Malaysia hosted a ministerial meeting on trans-boundary
haze on July 17. Indonesia agreed to share its digitized maps of
 land use  and concessions between governments as part of a joint
monitoring initiative, though only on condition that they’re not
made public. Vivian Balakrishnan, Singapore’s environment and
water resources minister, called for the data to be made public
so that companies owning land can be punished.  Indonesia’s parliament may ratify a regional haze treaty by
the end of this year or early next year, Balthasar Kambuaya,
Indonesia’s environment minister, said July 17. Under this
agreement, it would share information and get more assistance
from neighboring Southeast Asian governments, according to Nigel
Sizer, director of the World Resources Institute’s Global Forest
Initiative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  