-- Job Seekers’ Optimism Seen Prolonging Low Fed Rates: Economy
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-07-23T14:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/job-seekers-rising-hopes-seen-prolonging-low-fed-rates-economy.html
A strengthening economy that
encourages more Americans to seek work would have a paradoxical
effect: making it harder to lower the  unemployment rate  to the
level  Federal Reserve  policy makers want to reach before
considering an  interest-rate  increase.  Fed officials in June forecast the jobless rate will fall
to 6.5 percent to 6.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2014,
down from last month’s 7.6 percent. Policy makers have pledged
to keep their target interest  rate  near zero “at least as
long” as unemployment is above 6.5 percent, and with more
people looking for jobs, it may take until 2015 to reach that
threshold.  Currently, “there are a fair number of discouraged workers
that don’t want to look because the chances of finding something
are so low,” said Jesse Rothstein, a former chief economist at
the Labor Department who now teaches economics and public policy
at the  University of California , Berkeley. As the outlook
improves, the result could be that “unemployment will fall
slowly as people start flooding back in” seeking work.  The worst  recession  since the Great Depression arrested the
growth of the  workforce , as thousands gave up searching for
jobs, filed for disability, went back to school or retired
early. That brought the  labor force   participation  rate -- the
proportion of the working-age population either holding a job or
looking for one -- below its long-run trend. Participation
dropped to 63.3 percent in March, the lowest since May 1979,
when  Jimmy Carter  was president.  Outside Workforce  In June, there were 2.6 million Americans interested in
working who remained outside of the labor force because of
discouragement, illness, or school, according to Bureau of Labor
Statistics data. That’s up from 2.2 million in June 2009, when
the recession ended.  Now, with the economy entering its fifth year of expansion,
more people see improved chances of finding work. As they re-enter the workforce, not everyone will find a job right away.
The result: A stable or rising participation rate and a slower
decline in the unemployment rate.  The jobless numbers are calculated as a percentage of the
total labor force, which includes people with jobs and those
seeking work.  Joel Prakken , senior managing director of  Macroeconomic
Advisers  LLC, the St. Louis forecasting firm, estimates that a
“cyclical rebound in participation” will roughly offset
structural forces, such as an aging population and rising
disability rolls, that are drawing people permanently out of the
labor force.  Stable Participation  The participation rate will stop falling and stabilize
around 63.4 percent, Macroeconomic Advisers estimates, slowing
the decline in unemployment. The jobless rate won’t reach the
Fed’s 6.5 percent threshold until the second quarter of 2015,
assuming monthly payroll gains of 190,000, according to the
Macroeconomic Advisers forecast. That’s roughly the pace of job
growth over the last 12 months.  If the participation rate rises by just half a percentage
point to 64 percent, it would take average monthly payroll gains
of 258,426 to drive the  unemployment rate  down to the 6.5
percent range over the next 18 months, according to a jobs
calculation formula developed by economists at the Atlanta Fed.  “You definitely could not rule out that participation is
going to rise some,” especially in a scenario of 3 percent to
3.5 percent economic growth Fed officials forecast for next
year, said Stephen Oliner, resident scholar at the  American
Enterprise Institute , a Washington-based organization that
promotes free-market policies. “That would put some upward
pressure on the unemployment rate for a while.”  Examining Reasons  Even when the jobless rate does decline to 6.5 percent,
that wouldn’t necessarily lead to higher borrowing costs.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the House
Financial Services Committee last week that policy makers would
examine the reasons for a drop in unemployment.  “If a substantial part of the reductions in measured
unemployment were judged to reflect cyclical declines in labor
force participation rather than gains in employment, the
committee would be unlikely to view a decline in unemployment to
6.5 percent as a sufficient reason to raise its target for the
federal funds rate,” he told Representative  Spencer Bachus , an
Alabama Republican.  Next Meeting  Bernanke and fellow policy makers on the  Federal Open
Market Committee  hold their next meeting July 30-31.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose for four days in a row
after Bernanke said July 17 that there is no fixed schedule for
ending the Fed’s program of bond purchases known as quantitative
easing. In today’s trading, the  S&P 500  fell 0.2 percent after
reaching an all-time high yesterday, trading at 1692.17 as of
10:40 a.m. in  New York .  European stocks advanced as a measure of French business
confidence rose to the highest in 15 months in July.  Sentiment (INSESYNT) 
among industrial executives increased to 95 from 93 in June,
national statistics office Insee in Paris said today.  In the U.S., nobody knows how many workers are staying out
of the labor force until higher-wage jobs appear, or would
accept work now at a wage lower than their last job.  So long as unemployment remains high, “it is hard to see
any wage pressures for a time” with a large pool of available
labor keeping compensation low, said  Julia Coronado , chief
economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas in New York and a
former member of the Fed’s Division of Research and Statistics.  Inflation Threshold  That’s helping keep a lid on inflation, the other threshold
the Fed is watching before it will consider raising the
benchmark interest rate.  The FOMC said the benchmark rate will remain around zero at
least as long as inflation is forecast to rise over one to two
years no more than 2.5 percent.  The Fed’s preferred inflation gauge, the personal
consumption expenditures price index, rose 1 percent for the 12
months ended in May, a point below the central bank’s 2 percent
goal. Fed officials in June forecast that prices will rise 1.4
percent to 2 percent next year, according to their central
tendency estimates.  BNP Paribas estimates the labor force participation rate
will rise gradually to 63.7 percent at the end of 2014, keeping
the unemployment rate at 6.8 percent in December.  “I do think there are a lot of young people or prime age
people that will come back” into the labor force, Coronado
said. “There are plenty of people who want or need to work,
particularly if the labor market continues to improve and decent
paying jobs become more readily available.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  