-- Juniper CEO Johnson Stepping Down Once Replacement Found
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/juniper-forecasts-top-estimates-ceo-johnson-retiring.html
Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  said Chief
Executive Officer  Kevin Johnson  is retiring, even as sales and
profit forecasts beat estimates amid a spending spree by
wireless providers.  A search for his successor is under way and Johnson will
remain on the job until his replacement is found, Sunnyvale,
California-based Juniper said in a statement yesterday.  Johnson, CEO since September 2008, has benefited from
telecommunications companies upgrading networks to accommodate a
surge in data traffic from smartphones and tablets. He has done
so amid mounting competition from  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  in
networking gear and from smaller rivals such as  Fortinet Inc. (FTNT) 
and  Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW)  in computer security.  “It’s so unexpected,”  Jayson Noland , an analyst at Robert
W. Baird & Co., said in an interview. “Over his five years,
he’s done a good job. There are concerns about Juniper longer-term and how they are positioned, so a 52-year-old retiring,
people are wondering if he’s thinking the same thing.”  Johnson said his retirement is unrelated to Juniper’s
performance.  “This was a personal decision, a need to focus on personal
priorities,” he said in an interview. “Certainly this quarter
reinforces that the company is in good shape.”  Juniper fell as much as 7 percent in extended trading after
the report. The  shares  rose 2.9 percent to $21.34 at yesterday’s
close in  New York , leaving them up 8.5 percent for the year.  Share Repurchase  The company also said it added $1 billion to its stock
buyback program. The new authorization is in addition to the $1
billion repurchase plan approved in June 2012.  Profit excluding some items will be 29 cents to 32 cents a
share, on sales of $1.14 billion to $1.18 billion during the
period, the company said. Analysts on average had predicted
earnings of 29 cents on sales of $1.14 billion, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The telecommunications companies that contribute most of
Juniper’s  revenue  are upgrading networks as more consumers shift
to mobile devices for computing once done on desktop machines.
Verizon Communications Inc., one of Juniper’s biggest customers
along with  AT&T (T)  Inc., plans to spend as much as $16.6 billion on
capital projects this year to handle increased traffic.  “Management’s body language has been pretty positive,”
said Simon Leopold, an analyst at Raymond James in New York, who
rates the stock market perform. “It’s about wireless, wireless,
wireless.”  Profit Increase  Second-quarter  net income  rose to $97.9 million, or 19
cents a share, from $57.7 million, or 11 cents, a year earlier.
Profit excluding some items was 29 cents, topping analysts’
average 25-cent estimate.  Sales increased 7.2 percent to $1.15 billion, exceeding
analysts’ $1.09 billion average estimate.  Juniper’s reliance on telecommunications companies for the
majority of its sales benefits the company when its biggest
customers are in the midst of multibillion-dollar network
upgrade cycles, which they are now. Three companies --   Verizon
Communications (VZ) , AT&T and  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  -- contribute almost
30 percent of Juniper’s revenue, according to supply-chain  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  