-- Keystone Critics’ Report Finds Significant Carbon Rise
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-07-23T16:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/keystone-critics-report-finds-significant-carbon-rise.html
Carbon-dioxide emissions caused by
the Keystone XL pipeline could be more than four times higher
than a draft U.S. analysis found, according to a Natural
Resources Defense Council report released today.  The NRDC, a New York-based environmental group that opposes
the $5.3 billion project to link Alberta’s  oil sands  to
refineries in the U.S. Gulf Coast, says Keystone would add as
much as 1.2 billion metric tons of carbon pollution to the
atmosphere over 50 years. That’s a much higher rate than
estimated in a State Department draft environmental analysis.  “Tar sands oil production causes the release of huge
amounts of carbon pollution, both from its energy-intensive
extraction methods and refining processes and also from its
destruction of boreal forests, peatlands and wetlands,” the
NRDC report states.  The State Department is reviewing the environmental risks
of the project, part of an ongoing evaluation of whether the
pipeline is in the U.S. national interest.  Keystone’s impact on greenhouse-gas emissions has become
perhaps the central issue the department is weighing after
President  Barack Obama  said in an address last month that the
pipeline shouldn’t be built if it would significantly exacerbate
carbon pollution that most climate scientists believe is causing
global warming.  Alberta Premier  As they await a final decision, critics and supporters of
the project continue to make their case in public and to the
department.  Alberta Premier Alison Redford, in comments to the State
Department submitted in April, said Keystone won’t have a
substantial impact on oil sands development -- and therefore
greenhouse-gas emissions -- because the heavy crude would find a
way to market with or without the pipeline.  In a sign of the weight  climate change  may play in the
final decision, she also noted that most large industries in
 Alberta  are required by provincial law to reduce their emissions
intensity -- a measure that pairs emissions with economic output
-- by 12 percent.  The State Department’s draft analysis found no significant
environmental risks to prevent Keystone from going forward. More
than 1 million comments were submitted in response to the
review, which has been criticized by groups like NRDC for
underestimating the climate impacts of Keystone.  State Department  Anthony Swift, an NRDC attorney, called Keystone a
“linchpin” of oil sands development because rail lines won’t
be able to keep up with anticipated production.  Rejecting Keystone would avoid 18.7 million to 24.3 million
metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions per year, according to
the NRDC report released today.  The State Department found at most 5.3 million metric tons
a year of carbon dioxide, or less than 0.1 percent of total U.S.
emissions, would be avoided if pipelines like Keystone from the
oil sands aren’t built.  That’s because producers would find other methods to
transport the bitumen mined from the oil sands to market. The
State Department is reviewing the project because it crosses an
international border.  Bill McKibben , founder of the environmental group 350.org,
said Obama’s “protestations” about the risks of climate change
won’t be taken seriously if he approves Keystone.  National Interest  After the environmental impact statement is finished, the
State Department will have 90 days to determine if the project
is in the U.S. national interest.  The NRDC says the State Department analysis underestimates
the impact of Keystone on development of the oil sands. Its
report also counts  carbon emissions  from the burning of
petroleum coke, a by-product of the tar sands refining process,
and the effects of deforestation in its estimate of carbon
emissions caused by Keystone that the State Department didn’t
include in its calculation.  The project proposed by  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  would carry as
much as 830,000 barrels of crude a day from Alberta to  Steele
City ,  Nebraska . From there, the bitumen would link to refineries
in  Texas  through the pipeline’s southern leg that is already
under construction.  Critics said today the NRDC analysis shows that Keystone
can’t meet the climate standard Obama set. Supporters in
Congress said they may seek to take the decision out of the
president’s hands.  North Dakota  Senator  John Hoeven , a North Dakota Republican who supports
the project, said he may seek to introduce his bill that would
approve the Keystone pipeline as an amendment to an energy
efficiency bill that could come to the Senate floor next week.  Keystone will improve U.S. energy security and create jobs,
Hoeven said at a Washington event sponsored by The Hill, a
Washington-based newspaper.  Hoeven said his previous optimism that Obama would approve
the pipeline was diminished by the president’s climate address
last month. He said he now puts the odds at 50-50.  Senator Heidi Heitkamp, a  North Dakota  Democrat who backs
the project, said members in Congress have a “growing
impatience” with the administration on its delay in deciding
the Keystone project, which TransCanada first proposed in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  