-- Kirkland, Morgan Lewis, Manatt, Dentons: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-23T04:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/kirkland-morgan-lewis-manatt-dentons-business-of-law.html
Robert Khuzami , the former head of
enforcement at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, is
joining Kirkland & Ellis LLP, the law firm said.  Mark Filip, a partner in charge of Kirkland’s government
enforcement defense and internal investigations, said Khuzami
will help immediately in securities enforcement defense,
advising boards and companies and counseling financial
institutions on securities regulations. He will complement the
firm’s general white-collar, internal investigations, and
private class-action securities practices, Filip said yesterday
in an interview.  Khuzami, 56, a former federal prosecutor and top lawyer at
Deutsche Bank AG, took over the SEC’s enforcement division in
2009 under  Mary Schapiro , who was hired as chairman to help
restore the agency’s image after it was battered for missing
Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. Khuzami carried out the
biggest shakeup in the enforcement unit’s history, eliminating
management layers, expanding investigators’ powers and creating
five specialized units to police  Wall Street .  He held the position for about four years before stepping
down and was replaced in February by his deputy, George Canellos. Mary Jo White, who became the agency’s chairman in
April, named a co-chief of enforcement, Andrew Ceresney, to
serve alongside Canellos.  Under Khuzami, the SEC filed more than 150 cases related to
the financial meltdown, including 65 actions against senior
corporate officers, the agency said in January. His
investigators took aim at lenders who generated subprime
mortgages as well as Wall Street traders and investment banks
that bundled the home loans for investors.  He oversaw some of the biggest settlements in SEC history.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. agreed in July 2010 to pay $550 million
over claims it misled investors about a mortgage-linked
investment; Citigroup reached a $285 million settlement and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. forfeited $154 million for their roles in
similar deals.  For more, click here.  Skadden Advises Spartan Stores in Nash Finch Acquisition  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is legal counsel to
 Spartan Stores Inc. (SPTN) , which agreed to buy  Nash Finch Co. (NAFC)  in an
all-stock transaction valued at $1.3 billion including debt to
add grocery distribution serving U.S. military commissaries as
well as wholesale operations.  Morgan Lewis  & Bockius LLP is
legal adviser to Nash Finch.  The Skadden team was led by Chicago-based mergers and
acquisitions partners Peter Krupp and Richard Witzel.  The Morgan Lewis mergers and acquisitions team was led by
business and finance partner David Pollak and included business
and finance partner Jonathan Morris. The finance team included
business and finance partner Patricia Brennan. Also assisting on
the transaction were employee benefits and executive
compensation partner Gary Rothstein; antitrust partner Harry
Robins; and tax partner Kenneth Kail.  Nash Finch investors will receive 1.2 shares in Grand
Rapids, Michigan-based Spartan Stores for every share of common
stock they own, the companies said yesterday in a statement.
Spartan Stores shareholders will own about 58 percent of the
combined company and investors in Minneapolis-based Nash Finch
will own the remaining 42 percent, they said.  The combined company, with annual sales of about $7.5
billion, will operate 22 distribution centers covering 37 states
as well as 177 retail outlets, they said. Earnings will be
boosted starting in the first full year of operations, and
annual cost savings of $50 million will be achieved by the third
year, the retailers said.  Moves  California Litigator Joins Manatt from BuckleySandler  Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP announced that Donna L. Wilson, formerly the head of BuckleySandler LLP’s West Coast
litigation and privacy/data security practices, has joined the
firm’s  Los Angeles  office as a partner in the litigation
division.  Wilson has experience bringing and defending cases on in
highly regulated industries and activities. Her practice is
focused on consumer class and individual actions and counseling,
with an emphasis on financial services, data security and
privacy matters, as well as government enforcement actions and
other complex business litigation, the firm said.  Manatt Phelps has 400 lawyers and professionals at nine
offices in the U.S. and Mexico.  Morrison & Foerster Hires Donald Lampe in Washington  Morrison & Foerster LLP  hired Donald Lampe as a partner in
its Washington office. He joins the financial services group. He
was previously at Dykema Gossett PLLC.  Lampe advises banks, non-bank creditors, collection
agencies, loan servicers and other financial services providers
in regulatory, compliance and administrative matters.  He has
experience representing industry respondents in investigations,
examinations and enforcement matters.  Morrison & Foerster has more than 1,000 lawyers at 16
offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Carlton Fields Hires Business Litigation Partner in Atlanta  David J. Forestner  joined Carlton Fields as a shareholder
in the Atlanta office in the firm’s business litigation and
trade regulation practice group. He was previously a partner at
McGuire Woods LLP in Atlanta.  Forestner, who represents clients in complex commercial
disputes and in arbitration proceedings, has experience in
litigating fiduciary duty claims.  He has represented corporations and business owners in
contractual disputes and business tort claims, construction
companies in building and contract disputes, financial
institutions in disputes with borrowers and insurers and
insureds in litigation over coverage and bad-faith claims, the
firm said.  Carlton Fields has more than 300 attorneys and government
consultants at eight U.S. offices.  Dentons Hires Corporate Partner in Chicago  Dentons LLP announced that  Erik W. Chalut  has joined its
corporate practice as a partner in the firm’s Chicago office. He
was previously at Loeb & Loeb LLP.  Chalut focuses on the general representation of business
entities, particularly in cross-border transactions and in
corporate transactions involving distress, including in
restructuring situations, the firm said.  He has represented clients in distressed situations with
respect to distressed mergers and acquisitions, negotiating
asset purchase agreements, structuring out-of-court workouts and
negotiating, drafting and implementing Chapter 11 plans of
reorganization.  Among his previous clients, Chalut represented United
Airlines Inc. and Tropicana Casinos in their Chapter 11
proceedings, the firm said.  Dentons was formed in March 2013 by the combination of the
international law firm Salans LLP, the Canadian law firm Fraser
Milner Casgrain LLP and international law firm SNR Denton. The
firm has more than 2,500 lawyers and professionals in 79
locations in 52 countries in Africa, Asia,  North America , Europe
and the Middle East.  Wilson Elser Adds Patrick to the National Construction Team  Ben Patrick , a lawyer with experience in intellectual-property rights in the  construction industry , joined Wilson
Elser Moskowitz Edelman & Dicker LLP as a partner. He was
previously a partner at Watt, Tieder, Hoffar & Fitzgerald LLP
Patrick will base his practice out of the Miami and San
Francisco offices, the firm said.  He advises on construction industry and transactional
matters. He also counsels clients on insurance issues, including
coverage questions, risk management and contracts.  Wilson Elser has almost 800 attorneys in 24 offices in the
U.S.  Litigation  Morgan Drexen Says U.S. Consumer Agency Is Unconstitutional  Morgan Drexen Inc., a provider of legal support services to
lawyers, sued to block a probe by the  U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau , arguing that the agency established by the
Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 is unconstitutional.  The CFPB lacks the accountability required for a government
office by the Constitution and has the unlawful authority to
take enforcement actions involving unfair, deceptive or abusive
practices without properly defining the terms, according to the
lawsuit.  Morgan Drexen said yesterday in a federal court complaint
in Washington, that the CFPB has claimed attorneys working with
the company are in violation of a telemarketing sales rule
because of the way they’re paid in bankruptcy cases.  The CFPB doesn’t have jurisdiction “over the law practices
of the attorneys supported by Morgan Drexen” and fees charged
by attorneys working with the company “are not collected in
connection with debt settlement and are thus not ‘upfront fees’
prohibited” by the telemarketing sales rule, Anaheim,
California-based Morgan Drexen and co-plaintiff Kimberly
Pisinski, an attorney, said in the complaint.  The case is Morgan Drexen v. Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, 13-cv-01112, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  Audio  Lawyer Tecce Says Case Against SAC’s Cohen a ‘Spitball’  Frederick Tecce, a former federal prosecutor now a partner
at Panitch, Schwarzer, Belisario & Nadel LLP, said an
administrative action against billionaire hedge fund manager
 Steven Cohen , the founder of SAC Capital Advisors LP, signals
that any criminal case “has been sidetracked.” Tecce talks
with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen on  Bloomberg Radio ’s
“ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  This is a Bloomberg podcast. Click here for more.  Attorney James Spiotto Says Detroit Is Targeting Pensions  James E. Spiotto, a partner with Chapman & Cutler LLP in
Chicago, said Detroit’s Chapter 9 bankruptcy filing is an
attempt to cut pension benefits. Spiotto talks with Bloomberg’s
Tom Keene and  Michael McKee  on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance.”  This is a Bloomberg podcast. Terminal Users click here for
more.  News  Rutgers Needs More Athletic Oversight, Independent Review Says  Rutgers University ’s board and administration has
insufficiently overseen the school’s athletics department,
according to a review by  law firm  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher
& Flom LLP of the firing of basketball coach Mike Rice.  An eight-week study found “concerns regarding the
insularity and autonomy” of the school’s athletics department,
Skadden said in its report, released yesterday.  The New York-based law firm was commissioned in May to make
recommendations to help the school deal with sensitive
circumstances in the future, as the university adds two medical
schools and moves into the Big Ten conference starting in 2014.
The review was prompted by the firing of Rice for verbally and
physically abusing players, actions that school officials had
known about for months.  The firm interviewed 37 current and former Rutgers
employees and board members, reviewed existing school policies
and surveyed thousands of e-mails, handwritten notes and reports
pertaining to Rice’s firing, which led to the resignation of
Athletic Director Tim Pernetti and calls for the resignation of
President Robert Barchi. The report concludes with a series of
recommendations for the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based state
university.  Skadden’s findings call for the school’s athletics director
and athletics chief finance officer to report to officials in
the state university’s administration.  For more, click here.  Harvard E-Mail Searches Done in ‘Good Faith,’ Report Says  Harvard University ’s searches of its resident deans’ e-mail
accounts to find the source of leaks to the media were conducted
in “good faith,” according to a report by an outside lawyer at
the law firm Foley Hoag LLP.  Harvard officials who performed and authorized the searches
were trying to protect student confidentiality and were “faced
with inadequate university policies” for electronic privacy,
according to a report released yesterday from Michael Keating, a
partner and former chairman of the litigation department.  Harvard officials were concerned that confidential
information had leaked to the student newspaper from the
university’s Administrative Board, a disciplinary body, related
to a cheating scandal that involved about 125 students. Evelynn
Hammonds, the former dean of the undergraduate college, who
authorized the e-mail searches, stepped down after an outcry.  The report confirms that “that the individuals involved in
the searches were acting in good faith, in a manner they
believed to be consistent with applicable policy and with a
guiding responsibility for safeguarding student
confidentiality” and the disciplinary process, Harvard
President Drew Faust said yesterday in a  statement  on the
university website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 