-- KKR’s Public Markets Chief Sonneborn Steps Down From Firm
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-07-23T20:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/kkr-s-public-markets-chief-sonneborn-steps-down-from-firm.html
William Sonneborn, the 43-year-old
head of  KKR & Co. (KKR) ’s credit investment business, is retiring
after almost five years at the firm.  Sonneborn will step down tomorrow as head of KKR Asset
Management, known as KAM, and chief executive officer of  KKR
Financial Holdings LLC (KFN) , a publicly traded subsidiary known as
KFN, according to a regulatory filing today. Craig Farr, the
head of KKR’s capital markets business, will replace him.  Sonneborn plans to pursue a new challenge,  Kristi Huller , a
spokeswoman for the New York-based company, said in an e-mail.
He will become a senior adviser to KKR in October, Huller said.  Sonneborn helped triple KKR’s public-markets businesses to
$12.3 billion in fee-paying assets as of the first quarter from
$4.1 billion in 2008, when KKR co-founders Henry Kravis and
 George Roberts  hired him from TCW Group Inc. to run KAM. Based
in KKR’s San Francisco offices,  KAM  was started in 2004 to
broaden KKR’s business beyond leveraged buyouts and into public
investments such as equity hedge funds; leveraged credit
strategies such as high-yield bonds; and alternative credit
offerings such as mezzanine lending.  “He took the reins in December 2008 during the most
challenging of environments with the credit crisis in full
swing,” KFN Chairman Paul Hazen said in the filing. “Under
Bill’s exceptional leadership, the company’s share price has
increased 15 times in under five years. While we are
disappointed in Bill’s decision, we are grateful for all of his
contributions.”  TCW Connection  KFN  fell  to as low as $10.75 after regular trading, after
closing at $11 in New York. The shares have gained about 4.2
percent this year.  Sonneborn was introduced to KKR in early 2008 through  Scott Nuttall , a deputy of Kravis and Roberts who runs the global
capital and asset-management group, which includes KAM. Nuttall
was exploring an employee buyout of Los Angeles-based TCW, where
Sonneborn was president and chief operating officer. Nuttall,
who decided against the buyout, introduced Sonneborn to Kravis
and invited him to the firm’s annual meeting a few weeks later,
where he met Roberts, according to an account in Jason Kelly’s
“The New Tycoons” (Bloomberg Press/ John Wiley & Sons Inc. (JW/A) , 256
pages, $22.96).  He previously worked at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  for six
years in New York and Hong Kong, focused on mergers and
acquisitions.  Farr, 41, joined KKR in 2006 from  Citigroup Inc. (C) , where we
has co-head of North American equity capital markets. Since
then, KKR’s capital-markets business -- which over the past two
years accounted for 30 percent of KKR’s fee-related earnings --
has grown to 39 deal makers, who arrange financing for
transactions and underwrite stock and bond offerings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  