-- KPN Leads Declines in Credit Risk on Telefonica Deal
-- B y   V e r i t y   R a t c l i f f e
-- 2013-07-26T14:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/kpn-leads-declines-in-european-credit-risk-on-telefonica-deal.html
(Corrects story from July 23 to change currency in third
paragraph.)  KPN NV (KPN)  led declines in European bond
risk after  Telefonica SA (TEF)  agreed to buy the company’s E-Plus
German wireless unit in a $10.7 billion cash-and-stock deal.  Credit-default swaps insuring KPN’s debt fell as much as 22
basis points to 135 basis points, the lowest level since Sept.
21. The Markit iTraxx Europe index of contracts on 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings fell for a fifth day, dropping 0.9
basis point to a near two-month low of 96 basis points at 1:02
p.m. in  London .  KPN will get 5 billion euros ($6.6 billion) and a 17.6
percent stake in the deal combining E-Plus and  Telefonica
Deutschland Holding AG (O2D) , the Spanish carrier’s German unit, KPN
said today. The cash payment would shrink the company’s debt
from 2.2 times earnings to below 1.5 times, according to Ward
Snijders, a spokesman for KPN in the Hague.  “From a balance sheet perspective, today is extremely
positive for KPN,” said Sam Morton, an analyst at Mizuho
International Plc in London. The deal will give KPN “a huge
amount of financial flexibility should they decide to sell it.”  European credit markets have rallied since Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 17 there was no set path for
the withdrawal of stimulus measures. The average yield on euro-denominated investment-grade bonds is holding at 2.07 percent
after falling from an eight-month high of 2.38 percent reached
June 24, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  “People are realizing that it’s not the end of the
world,” said Juan Esteban Valencia, a strategist at Societe
Generale SA in Paris. “The impact is fading so the market is
slowly going back to where it was before.”  New Bonds  In the new issue market,  Uniqa Insurance Group AG (UQA)  is
selling 350 million euros of 30-year notes that can be called
back by the company after 10 years, according to a person
familiar with the matter. The bonds will be priced to yield
6.875 percent until July 2023 and will pay a floating rate
thereafter. Turkan Koksal, a spokeswoman for the company in
Vienna, declined to comment on the sale.  UniCredit Bank Austria AG, the Vienna-based unit of  Italy ’s
biggest bank, sold 500 million euros of five-year covered bonds
that were priced to yield 26 basis points more than the mid-swap
rate, according a person with knowledge of that deal.  Louis Dreyfus Commodities BV, the world’s largest raw
cotton trader, is planning to issue at least 300 million euros
of high-yield bonds, according to another person. The five-year
notes may yield about 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Verity Ratcliffe in London at 
 vratcliffe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  