-- Kumba Climbs to Month High as Dividend Rises: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-07-23T16:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/kumba-climbs-to-month-high-as-dividend-rises-johannesburg-mover.html
Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  rose to the
highest in more than a month after the  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  unit
that owns  Africa ’s biggest  iron-ore  operation increased its
first-half dividend.  The shares advanced 1.5 percent to 469.99, the highest
since June 19, and giving the Johannesburg-based company a
market value of 151.4 billion rand ($16 billion). That pared
Kumba Iron Ore’s decline this year to 17 percent, compared with
a 4.9 percent increase in the  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share index .  Kumba will pay an interim dividend of 20.10 rand a share,
up from 19.20 rand last year, the Pretoria-based company said in
a statement today. It has made payouts in every six-month
reporting period since the start of trading in 2006, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It keeps churning out a dividend,” Albert Minassian, a
Cape Town-based analyst at Investec Ltd., said today by phone.
The payout “had skepticism around it for a good three years,”
with investors concerned that it would be smaller, he said.  Kumba’s first-half profit rose after production from a new
mine and the rand’s weakness against the dollar countered output
losses from strikes and a decline in prices, it said. In May,
iron ore slumped into a  bear market  on concern that slowing
economic growth in  China , the world’s biggest buyer, will reduce
demand as global supplies increase.  Ore with 62 percent iron content delivered to the Chinese
 port of Tianjin , the benchmark price, traded at an average of
$136.97 a ton in the six months through June, 2.6 percent lower
than the mean a year earlier, according to The Steel Index Ltd.
in China, where the ore’s moisture can account for 8 percent to
10 percent of its weight. The price has fallen 9.2 percent so
far this year.  The company will maintain its payment cover of 1.2 times,
Chief Executive Officer Norman Mbazima told reporters in a
conference call.  “We’ve always said we’re going to return money to our
shareholders when we make money,” Mbazima said. “Until our
projects move further along their development and we are more
certain about expansion capital, we’ll continue to return money
to shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  