-- Kurds Seek United Front at First Regional Summit, Official Says
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-07-23T09:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/kurds-seek-united-front-at-first-regional-summit-official-says.html
Kurdish groups from Iraq,  Turkey ,
Iran and Syria are planning to meet as early as next month for a
congress to forge a united political stance amid rising regional
instability, an Iraqi Kurdish official said.  The meeting will be “the first congress to be held on
Kurdish land, and the first to gather all Kurdish parties and
groups from across the political spectrum,” Kawa Mahmoud,
spokesman for the Kurdistan Regional Government in northern
Iraq, said in a telephone interview from Erbil. “We want to
unify our voice and adopt mechanisms for coordination and
solidarity.”  A committee will decide the date of the congress, which
probably will be held in August in Erbil, the capital of the
Kurdish-dominated region in  Iraq , he said.  A wave of unrest across the Middle East has fueled
aspirations among some Kurds of forging their own state in the
region they call “Kurdistan,” a land straddling the borders of
eastern Turkey, northeast Syria, northern Iraq and northwestern
Iran.  Kurds have been waging a bloody war against Turkish
authorities for about three decades, and the government and
rebels began talks this year aimed at ending it. Kurdish
communities in Syria have taken control of their regions since
the outbreak of unrest in the country in 2011. In Iran, many
Kurdish political activists remain in jail.  Oil Interest  In Iraq, Kurdish uprisings were crushed under the Arab-dominated regime of  Saddam Hussein  which was ousted by a U.S.-
led invasion in 2003. Since then, the Kurdistan Regional
Government has cemented its control over three provinces in
northern Iraq, with a president, a cabinet and a parliament as
well as armed forces of its own. The region has 45 billion
barrels of oil and has attracted international companies such as
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp (XOM) , DNO International
ASA,  Genel Energy Plc. (GENL)   “The congress isn’t meant to put in place a unified,
centralized leadership, but to unify our positions in the face
of the regional turmoil,” Mahmoud said. “Each of the four
Kurdish regions has its own different characteristics, which are
mutually respected, and we don’t interfere in each other’s
affairs. The Kurdish populations are free to decide their fate
within their respective countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  