-- National Australia Bank Hires BofA’s Craig Drummond as CFO
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-07-24T07:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/national-australia-bank-hires-bofa-s-drummond-as-finance-chief.html
National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , the
country’s largest by assets, hired  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Craig Drummond as its group executive for finance and strategy.  He will join NAB by the end of the year and replaces Mark Joiner who retires after seven years with the lender, the
Melbourne-based bank said in a stock exchange statement.
Drummond most recently headed Australian operations at Bank of
America’s Merrill Lynch unit, according to the filing.  Chief Executive Cameron Clyne is changing  senior executives 
at the lender as part of his plan to boost its Australian
business and shrink its U.K. unit. He is also cutting management
roles to trim spending as Australian banks struggle with slow
corporate loan growth.  Drummond “adds to the bench strength in NAB’s senior
executive ranks,” said David Ellis, a  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  banking
analyst based in Sydney. “He obviously has many years
experience in financial markets, which is a positive for NAB’s
growth strategy.”  NAB  shares  gained 0.6 percent to close at A$30.67 in
Sydney, extending gains for the year to 23 percent. The broader
S&P/ASX200  index  rose 0.4 percent.  BofA Tenure  Drummond, 52, who led Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Australia for the last four years, joins NAB on the same pay
package as Joiner and will be compensated for deferred
employment incentives worth A$6.5 million ($6 million), which he
will forfeit by leaving his current role, the lender said.
Joiner earned total remuneration of A$3.7 million in the year to
Sept. 30, 2012, according to NAB’s annual report.  “A number of years in the role will ensure he is very well
positioned for a potential promotion as CEO at some stage in the
future,” said Ellis. Clyne, 45, took the CEO position in
January 2009.  Before Bank of America, Drummond was CEO of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s (GS)   Australia  unit. He spent 15 years with Goldman
Sachs, NAB said.  The Australian Financial Review reported in April that NAB
executive and general manager positions will be cut to 50 from
60, citing unidentified sources. Some changes have been made to
the senior management team to “better align the business to the
changing external landscape,” Brian Walsh, a spokesman for the
bank, said at the time.  NAB’s first-half business banking  profit  fell 1.9 percent
from a year earlier as slowing Australian economic growth curbed
credit demand. The division holds a market-leading 25 percent
share of Australia’s corporate lending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  