-- NBAD Second-Quarter Profit Climbs 16% as U.A.E. Lending Picks Up
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r
-- 2013-07-23T11:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/nbad-second-quarter-profit-climbs-16-as-u-a-e-lending-picks-up.html
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC 
reported a 16 percent increase in second-quarter profit as the
lender benefited from a recovery in the United Arab Emirates.  Net income rose to 1.21 billion dirhams ($330 million) from
1.05 billion dirhams a year earlier,  the bank said  in a
statement. The mean estimate of six analysts was for a profit of
 1.27 billion dirhams , according to a data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks in the U.A.E. are recovering from a real-estate crash
in Abu Dhabi and Dubai after the 2008 global credit crisis
triggered an increase in debt defaults. NBAD, which hired Alex
Thursby from  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  as the
chief executive officer, reported results after  Emirates NBD
PJSC, (EMIRATES)  Dubai’s biggest lender, posted a 50 percent jump in
profit. Thursby started at the bank this month.  “During my first few weeks at NBAD, I have focused my
energies on formulating our strategic vision for the next five
years,” Thursby said in the statement. “Our results for the
first half of 2013 are largely positive, and I look forward to
continuing the strong growth trajectory.”  Second-quarter net interest income grew to 1.59 billion
dirhams from 1.46 billion dirhams a year earlier, while fee and
commission income rose to 476 million dirhams from 386 million
dirhams. Impairment charges increased to 301 million dirhams
from 292 million dirhams.  Global Expansion  NBAD has set it sights on global expansion as limited
populations in the Gulf Cooperation Council constrain banking
growth. The Abu Dhabi-based lender plans to raise 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) from European investors through its French
unit, while it has also raised cash in currencies including the
Mexican peso, Malaysian ringgit and Australian dollars.  The U.A.E., the second-largest Arab economy, has the
biggest banking market in the six-nation GCC, which also
includes Saudi Arabia. Annual profit at NBAD may climb 9 percent
to 4.73 billion dirhams, according to the average estimate of 11
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  NBAD’s shares  have risen 42 percent this year compared with
48 percent for the benchmark ADX General Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  