-- NCAA Asks Judge to Toss Paterno Suit Over Sandusky Fine
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/ncaa-asks-judge-to-toss-paternos-suit-over-sandusky-fine.html
The  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  asked a judge to dismiss a lawsuit by  Joe Paterno ’s
family challenging penalties levied against  Pennsylvania State
University  and its football program over the Jerry Sandusky
sexual-abuse scandal.  The family seeks to void a consent decree between  Penn
State  and the NCAA, an action that might expose the university
to a “prolonged investigation” and potentially “harsher
sanctions than it had contracted to avoid,” the NCAA said
yesterday in papers filed in state court in Bellefonte,
Pennsylvania.  The family of the deceased coach and five members of the
school’s board of trustees sued in May, claiming the NCAA
improperly interfered with and mishandled a criminal matter
outside the scope of its authority.  The Paternos’ suit is one of two against the college sports
governing body over the sanctions, which include a $60 million
fine to be paid in five installments. A third complaint filed by
Governor Tom Corbett was dismissed in June.  The NCAA argued that the Paternos lack standing to assert
claims against the university because they failed to establish a
direct and immediate injury from the consent decree. They’re
also not parties to Penn State’s membership agreement with the
NCAA or third-party beneficiaries of that agreement, according
to the filing.  A defamation claim by the family also holds no weight
because none of the alleged defamatory statements mention any of
the plaintiffs or “could reasonably be interpreted as referring
to them,” according to the filing.  The case is Estate of Joseph Paterno v. National Collegiate
Athletic Association, 2013-2082, Court of Common Pleas of Centre
County, Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 