-- Nepal Killings Raised Note Costs, Not Bribes, Court Told
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-07-23T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/nepal-killings-raised-note-costs-not-bribes-court-told.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia ’s note
printing unit raised prices on a Nepal contract to help cover
higher costs including a redesign after the country’s king was
killed in 2001, not to pay bribes, a court was told.  Note Printing Australia Ltd., the central bank’s wholly
owned unit known as NPA, lost money on the A$3.5 million ($3.2
million) contract in 2002 to print Nepalese 10 rupee notes even
after raising the price from A$68 to A$72 per thousand notes,
Campbell Thomson, the lawyer representing the unit’s former
chief executive, said at a hearing in  Melbourne  yesterday.  NPA  put in a money-losing bid for the Nepalese contract as
it sought to expand into  India , Bhutan and other countries in
the region because its plants had been idled by a lack of
business in Australia, Thomson said. The lawyer cross-examined
Raymond Cook, who was finance manager at NPA when it negotiated
the Nepal deal, to counter prosecution arguments the unit
overcharged the Nepalese government to cover costs of bribes and
submitted dummy bids to make the process appear fair.  “You never suspected any NPA employee of being involved in
acts of bribery?” Thomson asked Cook.  “No,” Cook replied.  John Leckenby, NPA’s former chief executive officer, Peter
Hutchinson, the former chief financial officer, and former sales
managers Barry Brady and Steven Wong are accused of paying
secret commissions to overseas agents who bribed central bank
officials in  Nepal  to win the contract.  The hearing on whether the state has enough evidence to
warrant a trial is part of a broader probe that includes
executives at Securency International Pty, the RBA’s formerly
half-owned venture, and alleged bribery in Malaysia, Indonesia
and  Vietnam . It’s the first prosecution under Australia’s 2000
law prohibiting the bribing of foreign officials.  Royal Killing  Thomson presented dozens of e-mails between NPA executives
and employees, contracts, tender documents and correspondence
with agents and officials in Nepal to back his argument that
changing circumstances, including the killing of Nepal’s king in
2001, pushed costs of printing the notes higher and warranted
the rise to A$72 per thousand notes.  Nepal’s Crown Prince Dipendra killed nine members of the
royal family, including King Birendra, and himself. King Gyanendra took over the throne, forcing the currency printing
unit to redesign the note with the new king’s portrait. Changes
in fonts on the note and inflation also pushed the price higher,
Thomson said. Nepal became a republic in 2008.  In his statement July 22 to start the committal hearing,
prosecutor Nicholas Robinson cited correspondence from NPA’s
Nepalese agent Himalaya Pande that suggested inflating the price
to A$72 per thousand, with part of the difference being used to
cover bribes for central bank and government officials.  More Questioning  In October, RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  testified at a
parliamentary committee that he believed officials who reported
to him acted appropriately, although there should have been more
questioning and “skepticism.”  Three Securency International officials and another
executive at NPA also face charges of bribing foreign officials.
David Ellery, the former chief financial officer at Securency,
separately pleaded guilty to one charge of false accounting and
was given a six-month suspended sentence last August after
agreeing to testify for the prosecution.  The cases are Australian Federal Police v Steven Wong.
D10718980, Australian Federal Police v John Leckenby D10719656,
Australian Federal Police v Peter Hutchinson D10719474,
Australian Federal Police v Barry Brady D10719623. Magistrates’
Court of Victoria (Melbourne).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  