-- Northeast Iowa Corn, Soy Yields Below Average: Doane
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-07-24T13:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/northeast-iowa-corn-soy-yields-below-average-doane-tour-shows.html
(Corrects region in comment from analyst in eighth
paragraph. Story was originally published July 23.)  Corn and soybean yields across
northeastern  Iowa , the biggest U.S. grower, will be smaller than
the average after rain and cool weather delayed planting and
early growth, based on field inspections today during an annual
Midwest crop tour run by Doane Advisory Services Co.  Corn yields measured in six fields from Clinton to Dumont,
Iowa, averaged 166 bushels an acre, 11 percent below the average
of 186.5 bushels from 2007 to 2011, tour data show. Last year,
the tour measured 115 bushels on average after hot, dry weather
damaged crops. Soybean yields averaged 46.7 bushels an acre in
the same area, down 5.5 percent from an average during the five
years ended in 2011, Doane data show.  “There are some extreme development problems in northeast
Iowa from the widespread late plantings,” said Marty Foreman, a
senior economist from Doane, based St. Louis. “Up to 40 percent
of the corn is at risk of lower yields.”  Corn futures fell to a 33-month low today on the Chicago
Board of Trade and soybeans are headed for the biggest drop
since July 12 on speculation that rain and cool weather will aid
Midwest crop development.  Corn plants in Iowa need more warm weather and sunshine to
aid development because many fields are as much three weeks
behind on reproducing, Foreman said. About 35 percent of the
state was beginning to reproduce as of July 21, less than half
of the prior five-year average, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said yesterday in a  report .  Soybeans were beginning to flower on 36 percent of the Iowa
crop as of July 21, down from 70 percent on average from 2008 to
2012, USDA data showed yesterday.  Late Planting  Corn and soybean development has been stunted by the late
start of planting, and most fields will need to be frost free
until after Oct. 1 to reach current yield potential, Bill Nelson, a senior economist for Doane, said while touring Iowa.  “Half the corn and soybean crops are in fair-to-poor
condition in north-central Iowa, suggesting below to much below
yield potential,” Nelson said.  More than 14 percent of this year’s U.S. corn crop and
about 12 percent of the soybeans were sown in Iowa, the USDA
said June 28.  The U.S. is the world’s largest grower of corn and
soybeans. The government will release its first field-based
estimates of corn and soybean production on Aug. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  