-- NQ Mobile Jumps as Growth Pledge Boosts Vipshop: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-07-23T20:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/nq-mobile-jumps-as-growth-pledge-boosts-vipshop-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks rose for a seventh
day in New York, the longest stretch of gains since October,
amid speculation the government will act to bolster growth.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. climbed 1.7 percent to 91.54
yesterday.  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)  jumped to a record after its unit
entered a partnership with Baidu Inc., and  TAL Education Group (XRS) 
rose to the strongest level in 14 months. Web retailer  Vipshop
Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  soared to the highest since its U.S. listing in
March 2012, while  New Oriental Education & Technology Group (EDU)  sank
after forecasting growth that trailed analysts’ estimates.  The China-US gauge followed rallies in stock benchmarks in
Hong Kong and  Shanghai  after Beijing News reported Premier Li
Keqiang said at a recent meeting that the nation can’t allow
economic growth below 7 percent. The report came after the
official Xinhua News Agency said in a July 21 commentary that
expansion below that level won’t be tolerated. Gross domestic
product for the world’s second-largest economy rose at the
slowest pace in three quarters for the April-June period.  “The key is more predictable and sustainable growth,” Joe Quinlan, the chief market strategist at U.S. Trust, a wealth
management unit of Bank of America Corp., said in a phone
interview from New York. “What investors need to see is more
confidence that the Chinese government is on this path toward
stable growth. We’ll start to see that in the second half.”  The iShares  China  Large-Cap ETF, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., added 2.8 percent to a five-week high of $34.7. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.2
percent as investors weighed corporate earnings amid speculation
on when the Federal Reserve may scale back its asset purchases.  NQ-Baidu Partnership  NQ, a Beijing-based mobile security service provider,
soared 7.6 percent to $12.08, the biggest jump in four weeks.
Trading volume was 3.3 times the daily average over the past
three months, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  NQ’s unit Beijing Feiliu Jiutian Technology Co., a social
mobile platform, signed an agreement with Baidu, owner of
China’s most-used online search engine. The partnership allows
Baidu’s Duoku website to become the exclusive publisher of a
mobile game developed by Beijing Feiliu. NQ last week raised its
estimate for second-quarter sales by at least 3 percent before
reporting the results in mid August.  Baidu’s ADRs slipped 0.2 percent to $109.84 in New York,
slumping for a third day. The company is scheduled to report
second-quarter results after the U.S. market closes today.  Emerging Markets  Chinese equities could see a modest rebound in the second
half should the nation “make more concrete steps toward
stimulus, restructuring and rebalancing,” said Quinlan at U.S.
Trust. A rally in emerging-market equities is possible also
because they are in general oversold, he said.  The MSCI  Emerging-Markets  Index has dropped 8.2 percent
this year, compared with a 14 percent gain in the MSCI gauge for
equities of developed markets.  A preliminary purchasing managers’ index from HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics will show Chinese manufacturing was
unchanged this month, according to a Bloomberg survey of 19
economists before a scheduled release today.  TAL Education, a Beijing-based after-school tutoring
company, surged 5.8 percent to $11.60, the highest closing level
since April 2012. TAL forecast sales growth of as much as 33
percent in the quarter ending in August in a July 22 statement,
exceeding the average 19 percent projection of analysts compiled
by Bloomberg.  New Oriental, China’s biggest educational company, slid 3.3
percent to $21.92 in a sixth day of declines after reporting
earnings for the quarter ended in May.  New Oriental  The Beijing-based company predicted sales growth of 16
percent to 21 percent to as much as $406.4 million for the three
months ending in August in a release yesterday. That compared
with an average estimate of $410 million among five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. It also forecast revenue growth to be as
low as 18 percent for its 2014 fiscal year.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) , China’s fourth-largest coal
producer, jumped 6 percent to $7.72, rallying the most since
July 11. Its American depositary receipts traded 1.2 percent
above Hong Kong shares, the seventh straight day of premiums.  Giant Interactive Group Inc. (GA) , a Shanghai-based web game
operator, surged 6.3 percent to $8.42, rallying the most since
January. Vipshop, a Guangzhou-based online fashion retailer,
climbed 4.4 percent to a record $39.18.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in Hong Kong jumped
3.9 percent to 9,780.16, the biggest rally in six months, while
the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 2 percent to 2,043.88,
rising the most in eight days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  