-- To Save Pensions, Get Government Out
-- B y   E i l e e n   N o r c r o s s   a n d   R o m a n   H a r d g r a v e
-- 2013-07-23T22:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/to-save-pensions-get-government-out.html
Detroit  has become the largest U.S.
city to crumble under the weight of huge, unfunded public
employee benefits such as pensions and retirement health care.
It is unlikely to be the last: Recent bond-rating downgrades in
Chicago and Cincinnati indicate that more municipalities could
be forced to seek bankruptcy protection.  While it is too late to save Detroit, it may still be
possible to prevent similar disasters from unfolding elsewhere
by ending our long-standing practice of putting state and local
governments in charge of pensions.  Public-sector plans are in peril because pensions are
essentially mere promises that are paid for years or even
decades after they are made. A politician can woo votes by
promising benefits today, knowing very well that after he or she
has left office, someone else has to figure out how to pay the
bill. This opens the door to plan mismanagement, flawed
accounting assumptions and disingenuous politics.  The  Secure Annuities for Employees Retirement Act of 2013  -
- a proposal by Senator Orrin Hatch, the Utah Republican --would
address this fundamental flaw: It would give state and local
governments the option of getting out of the pension business
while letting employees keep the benefits they earned.  Instead of governments managing defined-benefit plans and
investing assets, the plan would let municipal or state
employers purchase a portable annuity from an insurance company
that would manage and invest the funds and deliver retirees’
monthly checks.  Accounting Gimmicks  One of the biggest advantages for both public employees and
taxpayers is that there would be no more accounting shell games
or unrealistic  assumptions  about the future performance of the
economy. Governments would have to face the bill and fund
employee benefits fully by paying the insurance company upfront.
Public employees would own the annuity as they earn it and
wouldn’t have to bank on the promises of politicians or
budgetary vagaries. And taxpayers would no longer have to fear a
sudden pension crisis that requires raising taxes or cutting
services.  Detroit is no anomaly. State and local pension plans are
repeating the same mistakes across the U.S. Consider these
examples: Since the late 1990s, New Jersey has periodically
granted itself a “pension holiday,” skipping or reducing
contributions as a form of “budgetary relief.” Today, the
state has an unfunded liability of $173 billion. Pennsylvania
also took a pension holiday in 2003 until state lawmakers
finally decided to do something about rising plan costs. They
gave themselves a “fresh start” and reamortized the liability.
The government’s approach to pension stewardship has followed
the political maxim that if you don’t like the bill, just change
it.  Accounting smoke and mirrors have made this fast-and-loose
contribution policy more dangerous. Even when governments make
the full contribution, they rely on flawed Governmental
Accounting Standards Board guidance that assumes a rate of
return on assets with a great deal of risk. Governments then
apply that assumed rate to valuing a plan’s liability.  Mixing assets and liabilities for valuation purposes is a
huge error, akin to revaluing your mortgage based on the
expected performance of your 401(k). What’s left off the books
is the enormous cost of guaranteeing these assumed returns on
asset investments. This oversight means taxpayers, and elected
officials, are routinely caught off-guard by gaping holes in
public pension plans. Governments operate both sides of the cash
register, calculating the bill and paying for it. If the bill is
too small, few complain until a crisis jeopardizes retirement
benefits. The result is that even when they pay the full
actuarial contribution, governments are setting aside too little
to fund benefits.  Market Transparency  With accurate, market-based prices on plan annuities, state
and local governments could no longer hide behind accounting
subterfuges to make these inflated promises look affordable. The
price of these annuities would be publicly disclosed, made clear
in a competitive market, and transform pension-funding policies
from a pass-the-buck nightmare to a single bill paid by
employers when services are rendered.  It may be that the best candidates for this change are
governments that have relatively well-funded plans that won’t be
in critical mode in the short term. In the end, the economics
will catch up to all public-sector plans. The goal for policy
makers should be to avoid making the same accounting and
political mistakes that undercut the safe retirements of public-sector workers.  Get governments out of the pension business, and give
employees the certainty that they will receive the benefits they
earned.  ( Eileen Norcross  is a senior research fellow with the
Mercatus Center at George Mason University.  Roman Hardgrave  is
the director of online strategies at the Mercatus Center. They
are co-authors of the Mercatus working paper, “Accounting for
the Cost of a Public Sector Worker in New Jersey.”)  To contact the writers of this article:
Eileen Norcross at  enorcross@mercatus.gmu.edu ;
Roman Hardgrave at  rhardgrave@mercatus.gmu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 