-- Obama NLRB Picks Seen as Pro-Union as Two Republican Oust
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-07-23T19:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/obama-nlrb-picks-seen-as-pro-union-as-two-republican-oust.html
President  Barack Obama ’s labor board
nominees are seen as being at least as pro-union as the two
forced out by Republicans last week, giving businesses little
reason to expect a change in board decision-making.  The new National Labor Relations Board nominees -- Nancy Schiffer, a former AFL-CIO associate general counsel, and Kent Hirozawa, chief lawyer for the board’s Democratic chairman --
testified today to the Senate’s labor panel after Obama agreed
to drop two picks he named in 2012. The swap helped end a
stalemate and allowed confirmation of other stalled nominees.  Business can’t breathe easy, because Schiffer, 63, and
Hirozawa, 58, have views on labor issues that are similar to the
positions of the candidates they would succeed, said Randel Johnson, senior vice president at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  “They are both pro-union and they will likely follow the
same tack as the people that they replace,” Johnson said
yesterday in an interview. “Business faces some tough battles
in front of the newly appointed board.”  The actions of the five-member board have been in question
since January, when a federal appeals court in  Washington  ruled
Obama’s appointments to the board were unconstitutional because
the Senate wasn’t in a recess. More than 100 challenges of board
decisions are pending in courts citing the appeals court ruling,
board spokesman Gregory King said.  The board hasn’t had five confirmed members since Obama
took office.  Senate Confirmations  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said today he wants
confirmation votes as early as this week. If the committee
approves Schiller and Hirozawa tomorrow, the full Senate could
vote on all five nominees. In addition to the Democrats, the
Senate would vote on Republicans Phil Miscimarra and Harry
Johnson, lawyers who represent management in labor disputes, and
Chairman Mark Pearce, a Democrat. Miscimarra, Johnson and Pearce
were approved by the Senate Health, Education, Labor and
Pensions Committee on May 22.  Obama last week withdrew Sharon Block and  Richard Griffin ,
who are serving on the board as Obama’s recess appointees.  Both of the new nominees have long-standing ties to labor.  From 2000 to 2012, Schiffer was general counsel for the
AFL-CIO, the federation led by  Richard Trumka  that represents 57
labor unions with 12 million members. Schiffer also worked for
the United Auto Workers Union.  Board Employee  Hirozawa worked at the labor board from 1984 to 1986 as an
attorney in the region that includes  New York  City. Hirozawa
then was a partner in the New York law firm Gladstein, Reif and
Meginniss LLP, which “is organized around the principal that
workers and their organizations deserve top-quality legal
representation just as much as corporations,” according to its
website. He returned to the board in 2010 a counsel to Pearce.  In 2007, Schiller told a House panel that U.S. laws
designed to ensure a workers’ right to join a union were
failing. The panel was weighing a bill sponsored by the late
Democratic Senator  Edward Kennedy  that would have made it easier
for employees to form or join unions. The Employee Free Choice
Act wasn’t passed.  Both nominees sought to diffuse Republican concerns that a
pro-labor board would seek to create rules absent action by
Congress. Provisions of the act “require congressional
action,” Schiffer told the panel in response to a question.  Congress, States  Laws that govern agreements between employers and labor
unions over issues such as how to collect union dues are “a
matter for Congress and the states to decide,” Hirozawa said.  Both nominees today said they hadn’t decided whether the
board should ratify decisions issued after the appeals court
ruled the two appointees were unconstitutional. They were
responding to a question from Senator  Johnny Isakson , a Georgia
Republican.  The nominees testified today that they have backgrounds
that aid their ability to be neutral decision-makers.  Schiffer testified that she represented the interests of
both business and labor during time she spent as an NLRB field
attorney in  Detroit  after she graduated from law school.
Hirozawa said he co-owned a small business for 20 years and
knows the pressures of keeping with tight budgets and dealing
directly with employees.  “I have a very clear understanding of the difference
between someone who’s an advocate and someone who’s an impartial
adjudicator,” Hirozawa said. “I’ve had experience in both
roles.”  Obama’s Board  Still, there is sure to be speculation about whether Senate
Republicans who demanded two fresh Democratic nominees “went
from the frying pan into the fire,” said  Gary Chaison , a labor-law professor at  Clark University  in Worcester,  Massachusetts .  “What they do know is that there’s an Obama labor board
and there’s always a labor board that’s slanted in one direction
or another,” Chaison said.  The appointments of Block and Griffin 18 months ago were
ruled invalid in January by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Washington, which said  naming both without Senate confirmation
was a violation of the Constitution. The administration said the
decision applied to a single case and the board would continue
to issue decisions. The U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to hear
the case.  Block, Griffin  Like Schiffer, Griffin had ties to labor groups.  He worked at the NLRB from 1981 to 1983 as general counsel.
He spent 11 years at the International Union of Operating
Engineers, which represents heavy equipment operators and
mechanics in the  construction industry , and was associate
general counsel when he left in 1994. Griffin was a director of
the AFL-CIO Lawyers Coordinating Committee until 2012.  Before she joined the board, Block was a deputy Labor
secretary for congressional affairs and from 2006 to 2009 was a
senior counsel for the Senate Health, Education, Labor &
Pensions Committee where she worked for Kennedy.  Obama appointed Block and Griffin after Senate Republicans
stalled their confirmation. At the time, Republicans refused to
declare a congressional recess, then held brief pro-forma
sessions without passing legislation. Obama said the Senate was
in recess.  “Republicans found the nominations of the two incumbent
Democrats to be repugnant largely because they were there under
questionable circumstances,” said Steve Bernstein, a labor
attorney in Tampa,  Florida , who represents management. “What
you seem to find from the business community is the notion that
we seem to have replaced two Democratic candidates with
predispositions toward organized labor with two others that
share the same predispositions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  