-- Obama Quiet on Kerry Deal Shows Mideast Peace Fragility
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-07-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/obama-quiet-on-kerry-deal-shows-fragility-of-mideast-peace-talks.html
President  Barack Obama  has refrained
from public comment on Secretary of State  John Kerry ’s brokering
of renewed Mideast peace talks, a reflection of how preliminary
the president considers the development.  “We’re at a stage here that represents some positive
progress but is not representative of a conclusion of
anything,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  Carney, speaking to reporters before yesterday’s private
meeting between Obama and Kerry at the White House, described
Obama’s level of optimism about the peace process as “very
cautious.” He said Kerry’s July 19 announcement is “an
important development, but I don’t want to overstate it or
understate it.”  Kerry, who spent four days prodding both sides during his
sixth visit to the Mideast this year, announced that Israeli and
Palestinian officials agreed on a plan to renew direct peace
talks and were seeking to hold a meeting in  Washington  within
days.  The renewed hope for an Israel-Palestinian peace coincides
with tumult elsewhere in the region, including  Egypt  to the
 Israel ’s south and Syria to the north.  The last negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians
broke down three years ago after Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  declined to extend and expand a 10-month freeze on new
construction of  West Bank  settlements.  First Step  State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki yesterday called
Kerry’s preliminary deal “a very important first step” and
“the first time in years the official negotiators for both
sides have publicly agreed to meet at this level.”  “There are elements that still need to be formalized,”
she said. “But, to be clear, we have an agreement between
parties to resume final status negotiations.”  Marwan Muasher , who oversees Middle East research at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a Washington policy
institute, said for now the White House “does not look prepared
to cash in any political chits on the  peace process  when it
feels that the chances of success are very slim.”  Down the road, Muasher said, a deal is unlikely unless
Obama becomes more involved.  “The parties are not going to basically bridge the gap
without a proactive White House policy -- a willingness not just
to stand by the proposals but to push or cajole the parties and
offer the economic and security guarantees both parties might
need,” he said.  Early Effort  Obama waded into the peace process shortly after taking
office in 2009, pressing the Israelis to freeze settlement
construction to restart negotiations. Israel rejected the
administration’s call and Obama’s stance strained relations with
Netanyahu.  By 2011, Obama had backed away from the approach and the
U.S. vetoed a resolution before the U.N. Security Council
calling Israeli settlements in the West Bank illegal.  In March, Obama traveled to Israel to reset relations with
Netanyahu in an effort to coordinate policy on Iran and
encourage, without over-promising, a return to talks with the
Palestinians. He designated Kerry to run the follow-up talks
with Israelis and Palestinians.  Aaron David Miller , a former Mideast peace negotiator and
vice president of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars in Washington, said Obama was “burned” by his early
efforts at intervention and is waiting for more signs that
Netanyahu and Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas  are serious.  Setting Expectations  “The last thing you want to do right now is crowd these
guys,” Miller said. That “the White House is not out there
issuing statements and raising expectations is good, smart
politics.”  Kerry “needs to figure out a way to invest both Abbas and
Netanyahu,” Miller said. “Over time he must make it Obama’s as
well and the only way he’s going to do that is narrowing the gap
and showing normal human beings that this is real.”  Former U.S. President  Jimmy Carter , who brokered the Camp
David agreement of 1978, said the movement toward talks was
encouraging because both sides in recent years have been
reluctant to give ground.  Netanyahu and Abbas are under pressure “not to go to the
negotiating table if it involves the most crucial single
element, and that is borders,” Carter said yesterday at an
event held by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in
Washington. “So the question is will the  United States  insist
on 1967 borders with modifications based on land swaps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  