-- Lockheed to SAIC Seek $6 Billion U.S. Anti-Hacking Work
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-07-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/lockheed-to-saic-seek-6-billion-u-s-anti-hacking-work.html
The U.S. Department of Homeland
Security plans to create a $6 billion shopping hub for federal,
state and local agencies seeking to shield their  computer
networks  from hackers.  Contracts for what may become the biggest unclassified
cybersecurity program in the U.S. government will be awarded as
early as this month.  The agreement has attracted interest from dozens of
companies seeking opportunities in a $512 billion federal
contracting market that is shrinking with the wars’ end and U.S.
budget cuts. The list of bidders includes top contractors such
as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and  SAIC Inc. (SAI)   “We’re not talking about buying pencils; we’re talking
about an advanced technology architecture system,” said  Michael
Carpenter , president of U.S. sales for  Santa Clara , California-based McAfee Inc., which is interested in doing work under the
program. “This is the first time I’ve seen in civilian
government where they’ve come together for an entire joint
acquisition.”  The program follows a February executive order from
President  Barack Obama , which directed the Homeland Security
Department to ensure that unclassified government networks are
constantly scanned for threats, defended from attacks and
audited for performance to ensure federal agencies are complying
with computer-security rules.  Five Contractors  Agencies such as the Agriculture Department, Environmental
Protection Agency and  Social Security Administration  have
struggled to meet those requirements, according to a March 2013
 White House report  to Congress.  The program will enable  Homeland Security  to work “with
federal civilian departments and agencies in developing
capabilities that will improve their cybersecurity posture,”
S.Y. Lee, a department spokesman, said in an e-mail.  As many as five companies will be awarded contracts by the
 General Services Administration , according to a request for
bids. The $6 billion is the maximum value of those contracts
during as many as five years under the so-called Continuous
Diagnostics and Mitigation program managed by Homeland Security.  The suppliers will provide central hubs in which government
agencies can buy computer hardware and software as well as
consulting services to help manage employees’ access to
networks, according to the government’s request for bids. Those
controls have been under scrutiny following defense contractor
Edward Snowden’s leaks of classified U.S. surveillance programs.  Early Warning  Technology can be used to develop an electronic, early-warning radar to identify emerging threats and provide agencies
the tools they need to thwart them, John Bordwine, global
government chief architect for  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , a network-security company based in  Mountain View ,  California , said in a
phone interview.  The program is designed for civilian government agencies,
though it also will be available to the Defense Department and
intelligence agencies, according to the federal request for
bids.  State and local agencies will also be able to benefit from
the consistency, pricing and purchasing speed that federal
agencies will gain under the program, according to the request.  While the program may turn out to be the largest
unclassified cybersecurity contract in the federal government,
it might not reach $6 billion, William Loomis, a managing
director at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., a  St. Louis , Missouri-based
brokerage and investment banking firm, said in a phone
interview.  Congress Funds  Loomis said one challenge is that Homeland Security can’t
compel agencies to buy through the contracts. He said he
believes smaller agencies are likely to buy the services.  Congress appropriated $202 million to Homeland Security for
the program during the current year ending Sept. 30, which
equates to $185 million after automatic U.S. spending cuts under
a process known as sequestration. The department has requested
$168 million for the program in fiscal 2014.  “The only sure-fire money here is the $200 million a
year” that the department gets, said Brian Friel, a contracts
analyst for Bloomberg Industries.  Ron Gula, chief executive officer of the network-security
company Tenable Network Security Inc., said it also isn’t clear
if Homeland Security will buy products and services for
agencies. The company is based in Columbia,  Maryland .  “Everybody knows this is a significant procurement, but
nobody knows how it’s going to happen,” Gula said. “What
strings are attached to that? I don’t think anybody knows.”  Lockheed Bid  Lockheed Martin, based in Bethesda, Maryland, has bid to be
a prime, or direct, contractor for the program, company
spokeswoman Sheila Collins said in an e-mail.  The Pentagon’s top contractor is committed to supporting
Homeland Security “in the effective deployment of this
important information security capability across the federal
government,” Collins said.  Spokesmen for  Falls Church , Virginia-based Northrop
Grumman, McLean, Virginia-based SAIC and Falls Church, Virginia-based  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC)  also said the companies had bid on
the contract.  The Homeland Security Department will get access to
information about threats and electronic attacks on civilian
government networks under the program.  Data Sharing  In April, lawmakers in the  House of Representatives  fought
over whether the department or the National Security Agency
should be the primary federal agency to receive cybersecurity
threat data from companies as part of an information-sharing
cybersecurity bill.  The bill passed by the House directs companies to send data
on intrusions to the Homeland Security Department unless they
have a preexisting relationship for doing so with the Pentagon.  The Obama administration’s decision to give more
cybersecurity work to Homeland Security under the Continuous
Diagnostics and Mitigation program may help settle the dispute
over which agency is best suited to provide cybersecurity
services, analyst Friel said.  “This establishes Homeland as the lead for civilian
agencies, and Defense can keep managing its own cybersecurity
programs,” Friel said. “This is a program that DoD could have
managed. In a way, it’s sort of settling the turf war.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  