-- Lockheed Boosts Forecast as Profit Defies U.S. Budget Cut
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-07-23T20:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/lockheed-raises-profit-forecast-as-earnings-exceed-estimates.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
largest defense contractor, raised its full-year profit forecast
as U.S. budget cuts ended up hurting less than executives had
predicted.  The across-the-board reductions known as sequestration
probably won’t slice revenue by the $825 million anticipated in
April, said Bruce Tanner, the company’s chief financial officer.
Programs such as the F-35 jet, the Pentagon’s most expensive
weapons system, so far have survived the cuts and helped
Lockheed boost profit in the second quarter.  “It’s somewhat hard for us to imagine that the full impact
will be realized relative to the $825 million number,” Tanner
said today on a conference call with reporters after the company
reported earnings. “It’s not affecting us as deeply as we
thought it would at the start of the year, when sequestration
was first implemented.”  Lockheed’s net income from continuing operations jumped 10
percent to $859 million, or $2.64 a share, in the second quarter
from $781 million, or $2.38 a share, a year earlier, the company
said in a statement. The  average estimate  of 20 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was $2.20 a share.  Even amid defense cuts, investors have sent Lockheed’s
shares up 28 percent this year. That compares with a 19 percent
gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Workforce Shrinks  Lockheed rose 2 percent to close at $117.92 in New York,
the highest price since Aug. 28, 2008.  The Bethesda, Maryland-based contractor said it anticipates
profit this year of $9.20 to $9.50 a share, an increase from its
April projection of $8.80 to $9.10 a share. It didn’t change its
sales forecast for the year, though revenue in the quarter
declined 4.3 percent to $11.4 billion from a year earlier.  “We had strong operational performance and program
execution across all business areas this quarter, enabling us to
increase 2013 financial guidance,” Marillyn Hewson, Lockheed’s
chief executive officer, said in the statement.  Lockheed also has cut  its workforce  to 116,000, from
146,000 in 2008.  “We’ve been very proactive,” Hewson said today on a
conference call with analysts. In the past several years the
company has been “getting ahead of the budget cuts by reducing
expenses and headcount,” she said.  Quarter’s ‘Blemish’  Defense Department spending on contracts fell 9 percent to
$361 billion in the year ended Sept. 30 from the 2008 peak of
$397 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Second-quarter profit rose at the Lockheed divisions that
make missiles and provide training and logistics services, while
it fell at the aeronautics unit.  “If one is looking for blemishes, we would note that
backlog ticked down again, and the company took another sizable
negative profit adjustment on the F-35 development contract,”
Joseph Nadol, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York,
wrote today in a note to clients.  Lockheed’s backlog fell 8.7 percent to $75.1 billion, from
$82.3 billion at the end of 2012. Tanner said today on the
conference call with analysts that he expects the backlog to
reach about $80 billion by the end of the year.  Profit from supplying the F-35 rose as production volume
increased, according to the company’s statement.  “There still appears to be very strong support for the
F-35, and of course that is our largest program,” Hewson said
on the conference call with reporters.  The program made up 14 percent of the  contractor ’s revenue
last year, according to a regulatory filing.  Protecting F-35  It “looks as if F-35 is getting its house in order as the
program readies for volume production following a handful of
heavy expense years,” Rick Whittington, a New York-based
analyst with Drexel Hamilton LLC, said today in an e-mail.  Pentagon officials, calling the fighter a top priority,
sought to shelter it from the budget cuts by locking in several
contracts before the reductions took effect.  In an interview this month, Frank Kendall, the Defense
Department’s undersecretary for acquisition, said he would do
his best to protect the fighter jet from additional cuts next
year.  “Could we protect it completely? I’m not sure,” Kendall
said. “We have to look at all the trade-offs. We may address
some of those decisions in the fall, but right now, we are
committed to the program. That hasn’t changed.”  The automatic spending reductions were created by President
 Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans as a penalty for
failing to agree on a deficit-reduction strategy. They will
strip $1.2 trillion from national security and domestic programs
over nine years unless an alternative is enacted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  