-- Octopus Orders Power $157 Billion Polish Building Boom: Freight
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-07-23T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/octopus-orders-power-157-billion-polish-building-boom-freight.html
Italian engineers from  Saipem SpA (SPM) ,
which is helping build an $858 million liquefied-gas terminal on
 Poland ’s  Baltic Sea , weren’t happy with the local fish, so they
arranged for a shop to import fresh clams and octopus from home.  “They seem to be quite attached to national tastes,”
Damian Trott, who owns the nearby “Big Fish” store, said in a
phone interview. “We offer them fresh seafood shipped directly
from Italy. We get orders regularly.”  Poland is harnessing foreign expertise as it embarks on a
$157 billion revamp of its communist-era roads, railways and
ports to help jolt the European Union’s largest eastern economy
out of its worst slowdown since 2002. After an EU-driven
infrastructure boom ended last year, sparking financial woes for
local builders, Italian companies are winning projects.  “The new wave of infrastructure spending could add as much
as 1 percentage point to economic expansion,”  Marcin Mrowiec ,
Warsaw-based chief economist at Bank Pekao SA, said by phone.
“It may start showing up in late 2014, when these projects are
in full bloom.”  Poland’s economic growth sank to 0.5 percent from a year
earlier in the first quarter, the worst performance in four
years, as the euro-area’s record recession damps demand for
exports to the country’s biggest trading partners. Gross
domestic product will advance 1.1 percent this year, the least
since at least 1997, the central bank predicted this month.  Stimulus Push  Polish freight as a share of GDP has grown by more than a
third since 2000 to 2011, the fourth-largest increase in  Europe 
after Slovenia, Bulgaria and  Lithuania , Eurostat  data  show. At
1,070 kilometers (669 miles) in 2011, Polish highways were 8
percent the size of  Germany ’s network.  As a fresh round of EU funding becomes available, with 72.9
billion euros ($96 billion) allocated to Poland in the bloc’s
2014-2020 budget, the government is embarking on a 500 billion-zloty ($157 billion) infrastructure drive over seven years.
Prime Minister Donald Tusk presented plans July 16 to widen the
 budget deficit  and suspend rules limiting fiscal stimulus.  The country, the biggest recipient of EU funds, boosted
growth in 2007-2011 by investing in roads and stadiums for the
European soccer championships. While continuing the focus on
roads with 43 billion zloty of investment by 2015, Tusk is also
targeting airports, energy terminals and railway lines, with 30
billion zloty to be spent on the latter in the next two years.  ‘Mobilize Funds’  The cabinet will “mobilize funds and speed up tenders,
allowing projects to start immediately,” Tusk said in October.
Details on how the latest round of EU funds will be allocated
are due next month, with the focus to be on transport
infrastructure, according the Regional Development Ministry.  As Poland’s previous construction boom fizzled out with the
end of the EU’s last seven-year budget and the economy lost
steam, local builders including PBG SA and DSS SA filed for
bankruptcy. That’s created room for Italian companies such as
Saipem,  Astaldi SpA (AST)  and Salini Costruttori SpA.  Rome-based Astaldi, which is building second subway line in
Warsaw for $1.3 billion, this year won $189 million of orders to
upgrade Krakow’s Balice airport and its rail links. It sees
Polish projects growing to 10 percent of revenue by 2017 from 8
percent last year.  “We want to expand in Poland,” Francesco Paolo Scaglione,
Astaldi’s head for central and eastern Europe, said when signing
the Balice contract on April 11. “We are very interested in
railway investments. We plan also other activities such as waste
incinerators and hospitals but transport-network projects remain
our primary interest.”  Highway Contract  Salini Costruttori will finish construction of Poland’s A1
north-south highway, taking over contracts abandoned by
Ireland’s SRB Civil Engineering Ltd., which quit after a dispute
over technical specifications. Salini’s $326 million bid beat
off competition from a consortium of  Spain ’s  Ferrovial SA (FER) ’s
local unit and  Portugal ’s Mota Engil SGPS SA.  The FTSE Italia All-Share Construction & Materials Index
has risen 16.3 percent this year, outpacing a 7.9 percent gain
for the  Warsaw Stock Exchange ’s WIG Construction Index. The
gauge for Polish builders has plunged 80 percent in the last
five years as investors fled amid bankruptcies.  “Poland appears on track to becoming an important
direction for Italian construction firms if the stable pipeline
of projects remains,” Alessandro Tortora, a Milan-based analyst
at  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , said June 14. “While the weaker economy may
impact local financing sources, it shouldn’t be a huge
disincentive providing European funds continue to flow.”  The projects aren’t all going smoothly.  Ambassadors Complain  The ambassadors of  Austria ,  France , Germany, Ireland,
Portugal and the Netherlands complained to Polish Economy
Minister Janusz Piechocinski last month of mounting legal
disputes between foreign builders and the roads and highways
department.  The number and value of claims pending in Polish courts
“indicate some fundamental and systemic challenges” connected
with the execution of infrastructure projects, they wrote in a
letter. In response, Tusk said June 18 that the government faces
“continuous pressure from foreign officials to win better
prices and conditions of contracts.”  While  Italy ’s ambassador didn’t sign the letter, Transport
Minister Maurizio Lupi discussed Polish projects, including
possible delays for Salini, at a June 26 meeting in  Rome  with
Slawomir Nowak, his Polish counterpart, according to a program
of the visit on the ministry’s website.  Poland’s desire to boost the role investment as consumer
demand ebbs should help maintain the flow of projects, according
to Wojciech Malusi, head of the Polish Chamber of Road Builders.
Investment reached 22.3 percent of GDP in 2008, when the economy
grew 6.8 percent, before falling to 19.4 percent of GDP last
year, when growth was 1.9 percent, official data show.  “Poland is an attractive country because of its investment
needs and plans,” Malusi said June 26 in an interview. “But
unless they invest in local capacities and show their
commitment, we’ll still be seeing different builders entering
and exiting the Polish market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net  