-- Olympic Front-Runner Tokyo Plans Biggest Project in 42 Years
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2013-07-24T06:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/olympics-front-runner-tokyo-plans-biggest-project-in-42-years.html
Tokyo, the front-runner city to host
the 2020 Olympics, is planning its biggest housing complex in 42
years to lodge athletes, a move that could benefit developers
such as  Shimizu Corp. (1803)  and  Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802)   The 95.4 billion yen ($958 million) Olympic Village complex
would occupy a 44-hectare (109-acre) parcel of land next to
Tokyo Bay and would be financed by developers, Kenichi Kimura,
who is in charge of the finances for the city’s bid at the Tokyo
Metropolitan Government, said in an interview. The government
separately plans to spend 153.8 billion yen for new construction
and renovations at 11 sites, he said.  Tokyo is ahead of Istanbul and  Madrid  to be awarded the
games when the International Olympic Committee announces its
decision on Sept. 7, according to  GamesBids.com , a website that
tracks the selection process. The village is planned on an area
28 percent larger than  Disneyland Park  in  California  and would
be Tokyo’s biggest since 1971 when a residential project called
Tama New Town was built on the western outskirts of the capital,
according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “It would have quite a positive impact for the
construction and the real estate market,”  Yoji Otani , a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Securities Inc., said. “Construction
companies would be able to receive huge orders and the
government’s investment in the Tokyo Bay area will help boost
land values there.”  The Tokyo Olympic bid committee plans to have chosen
developers to build the athletes’ housing complex by mid-2014,
with design and construction work starting later that year,
according to candidacy documents from the Tokyo government.  Post-Quake Recovery  The economic effect of the games would be highest for the
services industry at 651 billion yen, with the construction
industry second with 475 billion yen, followed by the property
sector with 152 billion yen, according to IOC estimates. The
London Olympics held in 2012 provided a 9.9 billion-pound ($15
billion) boost to business in the year since they were held,
according to estimates by officials at  U.K. Trade & Investment .  “The economic effect would go to the construction and the
real estate sectors first,” Kimura said in the July 19
interview. “A project the size of the Olympic Village would
probably require more than one developer, so joint development
is likely.”  The Olympics bid coincides with a recovery in the nation’s
construction industry after the March 2011 earthquake. Orders
rose for a second straight year in the 12 months to March 31
after declining for four consecutive years, according to the
 Japan  Federation of Construction Contractors.  Share Rally  Expectations that Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and
the Bank of Japan’s policies will end 15 years of deflation also
have spurred optimism that the nation’s property market will
recover.  The Topix Real Estate Index, which tracks 43 property
companies, has surged 50 percent this year, while the  measure 
tracking 94 builders gained 27 percent. The benchmark Topix
index has advanced 42 percent in 2013.  The real estate index was 0.8 percent lower at the close of
trading in Tokyo, while the builders’ index fell 1.2 percent.
The benchmark Topix finished down 0.2 percent.  Construction Companies  Spending on facilities for the games would be a boon for
property companies, Nomura Securities Co. said.  Shimizu, Mitsubishi Estate,  Kajima Corp. (1812) ,  Obayashi Corp. (1802) ,
 Taisei Corp. (1801) ,  Sho-Bond Holdings Co. (1414) ,  Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801)  and
 Sumitomo Realty & Development Co. (8830)  are among developers and
builders that stand to benefit, according to a July 4 report by
Nomura’s strategists led by Hiromichi Tamura.  “We think that if Tokyo is selected as the 2020 host city,
these stocks will be more likely to outperform the Topix over
the next three months,” Tamura said.  Under the plans, the Olympic Village complex, to be located
in the middle of two main competition zones, will consist of
luxury apartments surrounded by Tokyo Bay, with a view of the
Rainbow Bridge that connects central Tokyo with the Odaiba area,
which sits on reclaimed land, Kimura said. It will comprise of
10,860 residential units spread across about two-dozen
buildings, along with training gyms, dining halls, seaside
restaurants and parks, the bid documents show.  Olympic Stadium  The government hasn’t decided what to do with the land if
 Tokyo  fails to be selected, he said.  Tama New Town, which begins about 25 kilometers (16 miles)
from central Tokyo and  covers  2,853 hectares, is Japan’s largest
housing  development , according to the Tokyo government’s Bureau
of Urban Development. The town was planned in the mid-1960s to
cope with an influx of new residents to the capital, the bureau
said. The earliest occupants arrived in 1971.  Construction on the 80,000-seat retractable-roof Olympic
stadium would begin before other facilities if Tokyo gets the
2020 games so it can also be used as the venue for the 2019
Rugby World Cup scheduled to be held in the city, Kimura said.  The existing National Olympic Stadium, built for the 1964
games in central Tokyo, would be demolished to make way for the
new venue, designed by Pritzker Architecture Prize laureate Zaha Hadid, the bid documents show.  Planners intend to select the stadium’s builders by October
2014, with construction beginning a year later, Kimura said.  “I certainly expect to see an increase in activity in the
property market as a result of the Olympics,” Toyota Motor
Corp. Honorary Chairman Fujio Cho said today at an event in
Tokyo promoting the 2020 bid. “Not to mention the Tokyo Bay
area development that would be expected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  