-- Olympic Stadium New Home of U.K. Athletics for 50 Years
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-07-23T14:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/olympic-stadium-new-home-of-u-k-athletics-for-50-years.html
London ’s Olympic Stadium will host
summer athletic events for 50 years, the London Legacy
Development Corporation (LLDC) said.  UK Athletics today signed a 50-year deal -- starting from
2016 -- giving it full use of the stadium from the last Friday
in June until the end of July when anchor tenant and soccer team
West Ham United is on its summer break, the LLDC said in an e-mailed statement today.  The stadium will also host the annual Diamond League track
and field meeting, previously held at Crystal Palace, and offer
year-round facilities for local athletes and clubs at an
adjacent permanent track, the LLDC said.  Speaking ahead of this weekend’s sold-out Anniversary
Games, which will celebrate the one-year anniversary of the
London 2012 Olympics, LLDC chief executive Dennis Hone called
the agreement “great news for athletics fans.”  He added that “tens of thousands will enjoy watching top-class athletics each year here in east London. But crucially the
deal means that the stars of tomorrow can train and compete in
this iconic stadium and help inspire the youngsters of the East
End of London to reach their full potential.”  UK Athletics Chief Executive Officer Niels de Vos said the
deal is “a great result for athletics.”  The Olympic Stadium, which hosted the 2012 opening and
closing ceremonies and track competitions, will also stage five
matches during the 2015  Rugby World Cup  and the 2017 IAAF
Athletics World Championships.  Making sure facilities such as the 537-million pound ($824
million) Olympic Stadium will be used by future generations of
athletes was one of the key policies of the London 2012
organizing committee.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  