-- London Gatwick Pitches Second Runway at Less Than $8 Billion
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-07-23T12:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/london-gatwick-says-second-runway-could-cost-under-8-billion.html
London  Gatwick airport told a U.K.
government commission into future flight capacity that it could
add a second runway for as little as 5 billion pounds ($7.7
billion), eliminating the need for a single U.K. hub.  Gatwick, the world’s busiest single-runway airport, has
identified three alternatives for building a new landing strip
to the south of the existing one by 2025, it said today.  The Gatwick plan is one of a number vying for support as
London’s existing Heathrow hub nears capacity.  Boris Johnson ,
the city’s mayor, favors development of Stansted airport to the
north or a completely new base in the Thames estuary costing 65
billion pounds, while Heathrow itself has proposed adding a
third runway by 2025-29 for as much as 18 billion pounds.  “The focus in the U.K. shouldn’t be on big ticket projects,
it’s about deliverable and affordable projects,” Gatwick Chief
Financial Officer Nick Dunn said in a telephone interview. “We
can deliver sooner than other options and we can deliver the
sort of connectivity the U.K. needs.”  Gatwick’s submission last week to the state-appointed
Davies Commission details options including a runway close to
the existing one that would lift capacity to 60 million flyers a
year, and a more widely spaced one that would allow 90 million
people to be handled annually, it said in a  statement .  Noise Impact  Costs could range to as high as 9 billion pounds, with an
opening date of 2025, Dunn said. Noise caused by a two-runway
Gatwick would affect a maximum of about 11,000 people, compared
with 3,500 today, and about 5 percent fewer than the population
that Heathrow currently impacts, he said.  Acquired by Global Infrastructure Partners Ltd. in 2009
after U.K. regulators ordered a breakup of Heathrow owner BAA
Ltd., Gatwick favors a “constellation” of airports ringing
London rather than one hub maximizing inter-continental
connections. Transfer passengers represent only 13 percent of
the total across London landing strips, it told the commission.  Major airlines with their own hubs in  Asia  and the Gulf, as
well as discount carriers like  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Gatwick’s biggest
customer, also require only point-to-point operations, making
them natural clients for the airport, Dunn said.  Demand-Led  “If you are  Air China (753)  or an Indian airline or any of the
airlines operating out of the  Middle East , you’re looking to
develop your hub operations to deliver passengers in and out of
what is a major world city,” the executive said.  EasyJet Chief Executive Carolyn McCall said this month in a
submission to the government inquiry that the hub-and-spoke
model is outdated and that future aviation capacity should be
determined “by consumer demand not central planning.”  Commission Chairman  Howard Davies  said in November he’d
examine all options for securing additional runway capacity in
southeast  England , including the upgrading of Heathrow, which
Mayor Johnson has said should be demolished because of the noise
from planes which approach its runways over western London.  Heathrow Airport Ltd. submitted three alternative plans to
the commission, all capable of delivering extra flights by 2025-29 at a cost of between 14 billion and 18 billion pounds. The
proposals would boost the number of people using the hub to
between 123 million and 130 million from 80 million today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  