-- One Small Way to End U.S. Hypocrisy in Egypt
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-23T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/one-small-way-to-end-u-s-hypocrisy-in-egypt.html
After  Egypt ’s 2011 revolution, the
U.S. was at pains to  emphasize  to Egypt’s new leaders the value
of the  rule of law . So it has been discomfiting to watch the
 Barack Obama  administration ignore it since the July 3 overthrow
of elected President Mohamed Mursi.  The military takeover was clearly a coup. Yet the U.S. has
been pretending otherwise in order to get around  a law  that
requires the suspension of U.S. aid to any country in those
circumstances. The administration presumably worries that
suspending $1.55 billion in yearly aid, $1.3 billion of which
goes to the military, would threaten the peace between Egypt and
 Israel  as well as Egypt’s stability. If true, such thinking
suggests the administration needs to update its approach to
Egypt.  The aid package to Egypt was originally intended as a
reward for making peace with Israel in 1979. That logic no
longer holds: There is little danger of Egypt attacking Israel
today, not least because its military is vastly inferior to
Israel’s. What’s more, U.S. assistance is insignificant compared
with the many billions Egypt draws from oil-rich  Persian Gulf
states .  The Obama administration may fret that suspending the
handouts would weaken the relationship between the Egyptian and
U.S. militaries. This may be true. But if the relationship
wasn’t strong or deep enough to dissuade the Egyptian brass from
overthrowing an elected president, maybe it’s not all that
valuable in the first place.  In any case, a cutoff of U.S. aid needn’t last long. The
administration could work with Congress to legally waive the
sanctions. There is a precedent: After the Sept. 11 attacks,
President  George W. Bush  won congressional approval to  restore
assistance  to  Pakistan  that had been halted because of a 1999
coup led by General Pervez Musharraf.  If it’s going to Congress, the administration might also
use the occasion as leverage with Egypt. Mursi is still being
held by the military, for example. He should be released. The
Egyptian military should stop arresting and working up charges
against the leadership of the Muslim Brotherhood, as it did
during the days of former President  Hosni Mubarak . And the
restoration of aid should also be conditioned on the holding of
new free and fair elections.  Of course, all of this will be something of a charade,
because it’s unlikely Congress would deny the administration’s
request; only a few members of Congress have so far called for
suspending aid to Egypt. At least it would contain the duplicity
to the political process instead of casting doubt on the U.S.’s
devotion to a core principle such as the rule of law.  It would have been better had U.S. officials thought
through all this before the coup in Egypt. The protests that
preceded it were planned weeks in advance and spawned
speculation of a military takeover. The generals gave Mursi and
the world 48 hours’ notice of their action. U.S. foreign policy
makers had time to form their response. Instead, they looked
worse than unprepared -- they looked like dissemblers and
hypocrites.  The sooner the lapse is corrected, the better. Certainly it
should be fixed before the U.S. and other world powers begin a
fresh round of negotiations with  Iran ,  under a new president ,
over its nuclear program. In geopolitics, credibility is a
currency at least as important as guns and money. America’s
could use a boost.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 