-- Ore Deficit Said to Lure JSW to Stemcor Asset: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-07-24T11:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/ore-deficit-said-to-lure-jsw-to-stemcor-asset-corporate-india.html
JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , India’s third-largest producer, is considering buying the local assets of
debt-laden Stemcor Holdings Ltd. to gain iron ore mines, said
two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The London-based steel trader has been approached by JSW
for the assets, which include a pellet plant and a slurry
pipeline, the people said, asking not to be identified as the
deal is in the initial stages. Stemcor produces 5 million metric
tons of the key steelmaking raw material a year in the eastern
state of Odisha and has reserves of more than 100 million tons,
they said, without specifying offer terms.  Stemcor Holdings is asking lenders for more time to repay
an $850 million loan as adviser Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
prepares to market the company’s Indian assets for sale, two
people with knowledge of the matter said in May. The assets may
be valued at 65 billion rupees ($1.1 billion) provided all
approvals are in place, said Giriraj Daga, an analyst at Nirmal
Bang Equities Pvt. in Mumbai. Mumbai-based JSW, which doesn’t
own any iron ore mine in  India , is struggling to find raw
material for its annual 14 million ton plant capacity.  ‘Grab Opportunity’  “JSW would like to grab this opportunity to have some raw
material asset in its stable,” Daga said in a phone interview.
“This asset may help JSW cut costs by at least 27 percent per
ton at current prices, which is a huge saving.”  Shares of JSW fell 3.5 percent to 560.30 rupees in Mumbai
today, the most since July 3. The stock has declined 30 percent
this year, compared with a 34 percent drop in the S&P BSE Metal
Index and a 3.4 percent gain in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex.  “We don’t want to comment on any specific proposals based
on market speculation,” JSW spokesman Manish Mallick said in an
e-mail. Charles Armitstead, a London-based external spokesman
for Stemcor, declined to comment.  Stemcor Holdings had asked lenders to extend a standstill
accord by three months to Sept. 16, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because negotiations are private. Goldman
Sachs will draw up proposals to dispose the properties.  JSW had been forced to operate at a lower capacity due to a
shortage of ore following mining restrictions in the southern
state of Karnataka, where its biggest plant is located. JSW’s
capacity expanded after it acquired a factory in the western
state of Maharashtra with its 2010 purchase of Ispat Industries
Ltd.  Indian Stakes  Stemcor has stakes in Indian iron ore producer Aryan Mining
& Trading Corp., Brahmani River Pellets Ltd. and Mideast
Integrated Steel Ltd., according to a company presentation. The
closely held company also owns a slurry pipeline connecting the
iron mines with the pellet factory.  Imported ore with 62 percent iron content at the port of
Tianjin, a global benchmark, slid 24 percent to a low of $110.40
a ton on May 31 before recovering 19 percent to $131.90 a ton
yesterday, according to a price index compiled by The Steel
Index Ltd.  Restocking by  China , the world’s biggest consumer and
producer of steel, is driving iron ore prices higher, Anthony Rizzuto, an analyst at Cowen & Co. in New York, wrote in a note
yesterday. Chinese steelmakers including Hebei Iron & Steel
Group and Jiangsu Shagang Group Co. joined their Japanese peers
in raising prices this month after Premier Li Keqiang signaled
China may support economic growth.  Jindal Steel  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP) , owned by Naveen Jindal, the
younger brother of JSW Chairman and Managing Director Sajjan Jindal, was in talks with Stemcor for buying a stake in a pellet
plant, the Economic Times newspaper reported on July 9, without
disclosing the source of its information. Stemcor is expecting a
valuation of $300 million, the report had said. Ravi Uppal,
managing director of Jindal Steel, didn’t answer two calls to
his mobile phone seeking comment.  Production at JSW, which expanded annual capacity at its
Karnataka factory to 10 million tons from 6.8 million tons in
2011, fell after the Supreme Court placed a ban on iron ore
mining in the state in July of the same year to probe
environmental breaches. Capacity use had fallen as low as 30
percent, Sajjan Jindal had said in September, 2011. The Supreme
Court allowed mining to restart in the province in a Sept. 3
order last year.  “JSW has a greater need to secure iron ore to integrate
with its steel factories,” Chirag Shah, an analyst at Barclays
Plc, said in Mumbai. “They should be keen on buying assets as
they don’t have any mine right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  