-- Morgan Stanley’s Reinhart Sees Two-Speed Expansion Favoring Rich
-- B y   A l e x a n d r i a   B a c a
-- 2013-07-23T14:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/morgan-stanley-s-reinhart-sees-two-speed-expansion-favoring-rich.html
The U.S. economic expansion is
“two-speed,” favoring those who are already well-off
financially, said  Vincent Reinhart , the chief U.S. economist at
Morgan Stanley.  “ Income inequality  is increasing,” Reinhart said today on
the television program “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene 
and Sara Eisen. “Real wages, except at the very highest
incomes, are actually stagnant to going down.”  The weekly Bloomberg Consumer Comfort index has shown
optimism among lower-income Americans has deteriorated. The
index for households earning less than $15,000 fell in the
period ended July 14 to minus 69.2, its worst since January,
from minus 66.6 a week earlier. For households earning more than
$100,000, the index eased to 14.9 after 21 in the prior week,
which matched the highest level since November 2007.  “It’s been a two-speed recovery,” Reinhart said. “The
upper’s done better than lower.”  Still, strong  capital spending  and the housing market
signal the expansion will continue, Reinhart said. The U.S.
added 195,000 jobs for a second month in June, the Labor
Department reported earlier this month.  “The data are mixed for sure, but the composition of the
first half makes us a little more encouraged that we have
durability going into the second half,” Reinhart said.  QE ‘Risky’  The former director of the Federal Reserve’s Division of
Monetary Affairs said the Fed’s “quantitative easing” program
is “unconventional and risky.”  “It is recently unchartered waters for central banking,”
Reinhart said. The program now consists of $85 billion a month
in bond purchases.  The Fed is currently considering reducing those purchases
even with  unemployment  at 7.6 percent and the Fed’s preferred
inflation index showing prices rising 1 percent from a year
earlier, below the central bank’s 2 percent goal.  Half of economists in a Bloomberg survey July 18 to July 22
said the Fed will begin tapering in September.  The world’s largest economy grew at a 1.8 percent
annualized rate in the first quarter, according to the Commerce
Department.  Reinhart has served as Morgan Stanley’s chief U.S.
economist in  New York  since 2011.  To contact the report on this story:
Alexandria Baca in Washington at 
 abaca3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  