-- Morgan Stanley Oil Tankers Raise Market Power Concern at Hearing
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-07-23T20:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/morgan-stanley-oil-tankers-raise-market-power-concern-at-hearing.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s involvement in an
oil tanker business, petroleum transportation service and crude
markets raised concerns at a Senate hearing today that the owner
of the world’s largest brokerage wields too much market power.  Morgan Stanley’s ownership stake in tanker operator Heidmar
Inc. and fuel distributor and marketer TransMontaigne Inc. could
be giving the bank an advantage over others trading oil, Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat and chairman of the Senate’s
Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Protection,
said in a hearing. Brown’s panel took testimony at the meeting
on whether banks should control commodities assets.  “You scale back the number of those tankers delivering
oil, and you’re also in a position to wager on oil prices,”
Brown said. “Is that a concern to you?”  The subcommittee’s meeting came as the Federal Reserve
reconsiders whether banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
Morgan Stanley and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  should be allowed to
store, transport and trade raw materials. Goldman Sachs alone
has contracts for fuel from least five U.S. refineries, totaling
586,200 barrels a day in capacity, while JPMorgan had a stake in
power plants across the U.S. last year with a generating
capacity of almost 8,000 megawatts, federal filings show.  Oil Tankers  Morgan Stanley’s involvement in oil tanker, distribution
and trading businesses raises “serious concerns,” Randall Guynn, head of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP’s financial
institutions group, said at the hearing in response to Brown’s
question. “Obviously, if they have market share and abuse it, I
suppose that could be a problem.”  Regulatory agencies exist to investigate potential abuses
of market power, Guynn said.  “Unlike the 19th century, we have the Sherman Act now,”
he said. “If there are any gaps in regulation, I would’ve
thought that a legitimate thing to look at and make sure that
any sort of bad behavior did not occur.”  The Sherman Act prohibits business activities that federal
regulators deem to be anticompetitive.  Lauren Bellmare, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley in New
York, declined by telephone to comment on the company’s
petroleum assets.  Guynn said federal policy makers shouldn’t curb banks’
involvement in commodity markets as nothing has proven their
activity is risking the stability of the country’s financial
system. The public benefits of their participation, such as
increased competition, liquidity and efficiency, outweigh the
potential adverse effects, he said.  Asset Ownership  Morgan Stanley has a minority interest in Heidmar, whose
clients include some of “the world’s best-known oil and energy
companies,” according to Heidmar’s website. Its infrastructure
group bought the  Southern Star (SSEY)  Central Gas Pipeline in the U.S.
Midwest in 2010. TransMontaigne has petroleum terminals across
the U.S.  Units of Goldman Sachs,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America
Corp.  owned power plants across the U.S. that generate renewable
energy such as solar and wind, according to 2012 plant ownership
 data  compiled by the Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm.  A Citigroup subsidiary had a 25 percent ownership stake in
three wind power farms in  Minnesota  and New Mexico, the EIA data
show. Banc of America Leasing & Capital LLC owned solar power
plants in Oregon and  California .  Physical Markets  Stripping banks of their energy assets would handicap them
in physical markets, where they trade with refiners, pipeline
operators and producers, who often own infrastructure and carry
supplies that dwarf theirs, Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at
the Price Futures Group in  Chicago , said by telephone yesterday.
Should banks be pushed out of the markets, less regulated hedge
funds would probably step in to take their place, he said.  “You’re probably just going to get the people at the big
banks joining hedge funds to do it,” Flynn said. “You’ll move
some of this stuff into the dark markets, and that’s another
concern.”  A disaster at a bank-owned commodities asset would be
“catastrophic” to the reputation of the company and the
Federal Reserve,  Joshua Rosner , managing director at Graham
Fisher & Co., said at the hearing. An incident such as a major
oil spill would trigger calls for more collateral, cut liquidity
and require the government to step in and stabilize systemic
risk to the financial system, he said.  Rosner told the subcommittee today that commodity risks
should be kept out of the nation’s banking systems and warned
that the failure of bank-backed commodities would threaten the
flow of money and “bring the financial system to a
standstill.”  “We’re destined to view 2008 as the first financial crisis
and not the worst,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  