-- Morton’s Board Doesn’t Have to Face Buyout Suits
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-07-23T22:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/morton-s-board-doesn-t-have-to-face-buyout-suits.html
Morton’s Restaurant Group Inc.
directors don’t have to face shareholders’ claims the board
erred in not getting enough for the steakhouse chain in the
$116.6 million sale to billionaire restaurateur Tilman Fertitta,
a judge ruled.  Morton’s directors properly shopped around for the best
price for the group of 68 high-end steakhouses and the deal’s
financing wasn’t marred by conflicts of interest, Delaware
Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine concluded today. Strine threw
out investor suits challenging the deal.  Shareholders had no viable grounds to challenge the sale
because “every major decision leading up to the transaction was
approved by a board of independent and disinterested
directors,” Strine said in his 34-page ruling.  Morton’s, based in  Chicago , agreed to be acquired by a unit
of Landry’s Inc. for $6.90 a share in cash. Fertitta is chief
executive officer of Houston-based Landry’s, which has a history
of acquiring restaurant chains. In 2011, Landry’s agreed to buy
McCormick & Schmick’s Seafood Restaurants Inc. for about
$131.6 million. Landry’s also owns the  Rainforest Cafe  and  Bubba
Gump Shrimp Co.  chains.  “The court recognized that there isn’t wrongdoing in every
instance where a public company is acquired,” Steve Scheinthal,
Landry’s general counsel, said in a phone interview.  Nine Months  Morton’s officials said they spent nine months sorting
through offers for the chain, which generated about $300 million
in sales in 2010. Morton’s executives announced in 2011 they
were exploring a possible sale to boost shareholder value as the
U.S.’s economic uncertainties raised questions about future
revenue growth.  Investors contended that Morton’s directors gave
preferential treatment to Fertitta’s “inferior” bid to hasten
the chain’s sale and to benefit Castle Harlan Inc., the
company’s largest shareholder.  Disgruntled shareholders also alleged the original
financial adviser for Morton’s, Jefferies Group LLC, wound up
providing financing to Fertitta as part of the deal and created
a conflict of interest.  Lawyers for Morton’s and Fertitta said the board properly
reviewed offers for the chain and found the billionaire’s
superior to other bids. Fertitta’s attorneys said the
restaurateur only agreed to accept financing from Jefferies if
Morton’s directors agreed to it.  No Bad Faith  In his decision, Strine said investors couldn’t produce
evidence to show the sale “was a rushed process or that the
board favored Fertitta” in accepting his bid.  Morton’s shareholders objecting to the deal also couldn’t
demonstrate that directors showed bad faith in letting Jefferies
provide financing for Fertitta, Strine concluded. The judge said
the chain brought in another financial adviser to replace
Jefferies to avoid any conflict problems.  The case is In re Morton’s Restaurant Group Inc.
Shareholders Litigation, Consolidated 7122, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  