-- Los Angeles Digital Billboards Go Dark in Blight Battle
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-07-23T04:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/los-angeles-digital-billboards-go-dark-in-blight-battle.html
A battle by Los Angeles homeowners
over visual “blight” that shut off digital billboards across
the city is shifting as  Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings Inc. (CCO) 
seeks to restore signs that are central to its business model.  Almost 100 darkened billboards loom over boulevards and
streets, switched off in mid-April after a judge rejected a deal
between the second-largest U.S. city and sign-operators Clear
Channel and CBS Outdoor Inc. The agreement attempted to sidestep
a moratorium on digital installations except in special areas.  Los Angeles, which dealt with $1.6 billion in combined
deficits over the past four years, collects no franchise fees on
billboards, according to Luke Zamperini, who administers their
regulation for the Building and Safety Department. Clear Channel
is negotiating with City Council members on a “legislative
solution” involving a permitting fee, said Greg McGrath,
president of its Southern California division.  “Los Angeles is home to the entertainment industry,”
McGrath said. “It’s home to the outdoor industry. We’ve been in
Los Angeles for over a century. Here we are in the home of the
entertainment industry, the digital industry, and we’re unable
to use them in our own hometown.”  Los Angeles, with more roadway miles along which to display
billboards than New York or  Chicago , is defined partly by its
signs. The letters spelling out Hollywood, erected in 1923 to
promote a housing development, are world famous. Singer and
actress Angelyne drew attention for buying cleavage-baring
billboards promoting herself. She finished 28th among 125
candidates running for governor in a 2003 recall election that
catapulted Arnold Schwarzenegger to the state’s highest office.  Billboard Plan  Clear Channel Outdoor, a unit of San Antonio-based radio-station owner Clear Channel Communications Inc., operates about
1,500 billboards in Los Angeles. McGrath said Clear Channel is
willing to contribute permitting fees as part of a
“comprehensive legislative solution” that would reduce its
total number of billboards and move certain signs. He declined
to say how much the company might offer. A spokeswoman for CBS
Outdoor, Shannon Jacobs, declined to comment.  Mayor Eric Garcetti, who took office July 1, “supported
the recent court decision against digital billboards in L.A. and
is keeping an eye on subsequent developments,” said Yusef Robb,
a spokesman. “His priority is to work with neighbors to keep
unwanted billboards out of communities.”  The billboard industry may be encouraged because it backed
three new city council members elected this year, according to
city filings. There are 15 seats on the panel.  Residents’ Objections  “It is a concern of ours that some of those new council
members may drink the Kool-Aid that these companies are
offering,” said Dennis Hathaway, of the Los Angeles
neighborhood of  Venice , who founded the Coalition to Ban
Billboard Blight.  Residents object to digital billboards because of the light
from them that streams into homes and apartments, distractions
to drivers and the environmental cost of powering the displays
around the clock, Hathaway said.  Clear Channel, the largest outdoor advertising company in
North America by revenue, typically gets its highest rates for
digital billboards, which can be changed as often as several
times a minute, according to a May 17 securities filing. William Eccleshare, chief executive officer of the advertising company,
has predicted that half of its business in 10 years will be
digital.  $100 Million  The signs may generate $100 million a year for CBS and
Clear Channel, based on their rate cards, said Timothy Alger, an
attorney for a rival company, Santa Monica-based Summit Media
LLC. Clear Channel and CBS Outdoor were forced to shut off the
signs after a judge sided with Summit, which contended that a
2006 deal giving the companies a duopoly on digital signs was
illegal.  Jacobs, the CBS Outdoors spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the Summit figure. The company’s parent,  CBS Corp. (CBS) , is
splitting off its outdoor business, filing an initial public
offering for $100 million, according to Bloomberg Industries.
CBS’s outdoor segment generated $1.3 billion in 2012, 9 percent
of the parent company’s revenue.  Clear Channel “does not report financial information with
this level of granularity and cannot comment,” said Jennifer
Wonnacott, an outside spokesman for Clear Channel at Fiona
Hutton & Associates.  The company’s 1,000 digital displays boosted its Americas
outdoor operating revenue 2 percent, to $286.5 million, in the
three months ended March 31, according to the filing. Clear
Channel’s first-quarter expenses rose $2 million primarily
because of legal costs related to the Los Angeles dispute,
according to its filing.  Turned Off  Clear Channel turned off 82 digital billboards in Los
Angeles and CBS deactivated 13 in April after Los Angeles
Superior Court Judge Terry Green ruled that permits issued to
the companies under the 2006 agreement were invalid, according
to a prospectus filed by Clear Channel in June.  Summit, which brought the case in 2008, has petitioned
Green to order the billboard structures torn down, Alger said.  “It’s not like Times Square where you have big, colorful
displays,” Alger said in an interview. “These billboards are
basically sprinkled throughout Los Angeles.”  In 2002, the City Council passed a moratorium on new
billboards, which was challenged in court by Clear Channel and
CBS. The city settled the case in 2006 by keeping the cap in
place while allowing the companies to convert as many as 840
standard billboards to digital. About 100 of the signs had been
switched by the time Summit won its case.  ‘Seriously Undermines’  Lamar Advertising Co. (LAMR) ’s Lamar Central Outdoor LLC, which
has permits for 3,000 non-digital billboards in Los Angeles,
petitioned the Los Angeles Superior Court in March to allow it
to convert 17 billboards to digital. Lamar said that exempting
Clear Channel and CBS from the ban on digital billboards
“seriously undermines” Los Angeles’s rationale for the ban.  Like many cities, Los Angeles collects franchise fees from
certain businesses for the right to operate within municipal
boundaries. Los Angeles  estimates  it will collect $42.6 million
in such revenue for 2013-14 from natural gas, cable television
and taxi companies, among others.  The city charges $186 per billboard every three years to
offset the costs of permitting and inspecting the structures,
Zamperini said. It makes no money from the billboards, he said.  CBS Outdoors backed three of the  eight  Los Angeles City
Council members elected this year. It erected billboards worth
$9,000 for Joe Buscaino, $4,500 for Curren Price Jr. and $8,518
for Gilbert Cedillo, according to city Ethics Commission
documents.  Council Members  “I am generally supportive of digital billboards,
depending on the impact on a particular community and the
willingness of the billboard company using the space to provide
benefits back to the community, like advertising and community
services,” Price said in a written statement in response to
questions from Bloomberg News.  A spokesman for Cedillo, Fredy Ceja, said the councilman
still is studying the issue and wouldn’t comment. A Buscaino
spokesman, Dennis Gleason, didn’t respond to e-mail and
voicemail messages.  About 4,000 of the approximately 400,000 billboards in the
U.S. are digital, according of the Washington-based Outdoor
Advertising Association of America.  Advertisers are drawn to the “speed and flexibility” of
the changing digital signs, a particular attribute for drivers
in traffic-choked cities, Ken Klein, executive vice president of
the industry group, said in a statement.  “The overall trend line for digital billboards is
regulatory acceptance,” Klein said. “Keeping pace with
technology, most states have taken steps to regulate digital
billboards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  