-- Mosque Battle Scars Show Risk of Lebanon Return to Civil War
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-07-24T14:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/mosque-battle-scars-show-risk-of-lebanon-returning-to-civil-war.html
Around the mosque in the Lebanese
hilltop town of Abra, the sound of drilling and pounding fills
the streets as workers clear up after the latest round of
fighting triggered by the war in neighboring  Syria .  Installing new windows and painting blackened walls may
erase the physical scars of the battle, “but it doesn’t mean
the story is over,” said Ibrahim al-Dada, a supporter of
radical Sunni Muslim cleric Ahmed al-Assir, who was at the
center of the violence last month.  Al-Dada, 62, and other Sunni men keep watch over the
mosque, where Assir’s supporters clashed with the Lebanese army
for two days in June. They say the military is backed by members
of the Shiite Muslim Hezbollah. With his cane, he chases away
cars plastered with pictures of Hezbollah’s leader that pass the
mosque or drivers who slow down to shout obscenities.  Abra, a 10-minute drive east from the city of Sidon where
the sparks of the 1975-1990 Lebanese civil war began, is among a
growing number of flashpoints in Lebanon over the past year that
is raising the specter of the country turning once more into an
all-out sectarian battleground.  The clashes in Abra added to a “treacherous witch’s brew
bubbling away in Lebanon,” said  Paul Salem , director of the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace’s Middle Center in
Beirut. “And it might be one of the last warning signs before
Lebanon’s eruption into widespread sectarian fighting.”  Polarized  The crisis in Syria, which began in March 2011 with
peaceful protests and later evolved into a civil war, has
destabilized its smaller neighbor, their fates intertwined as
Shiite and Sunni communities become polarized.  More radical Sunni groups gained strength, while Shiite
Hezbollah is openly fighting alongside Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s troops. Lebanon’s government has been hamstrung since
April as disagreements over the new cabinet prevented Prime
Minister-Designate Tammam Salam from naming his ministers.  The European Union blacklisted Hezbollah’s military wing
this week, calling it a terrorist organization. A spokeswoman
for the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, which includes
European troops, denied a report by the official National News
Agency yesterday it was taking precautions including barricades
of cement blocks and barbed wire, the NNA said today.  Severed Penis  Crime is rife with the breakdown in security leading to
kidnappings, thefts and hijacking of cars.  Incidents this month are still making headlines in Beirut.
One is the case of a Sunni man whose in-laws from the Druze
community severed his penis because they disapproved of his
marriage to their daughter.  “There are still worries for Lebanon’s future,” said
Sheikh Salim Sousan, the grand mufti for the city of Sidon. “We
have  Israel  in the south, Syria in the north and the east where
flames are rising and to the west we have the sea. What do we
choose? And you ask me about fear?”  Economically, fighting is taking its toll. At least 1.2
million Syrians, half of them refugees, have flooded into the
country of 4.3 million people, straining its resources.  Gross domestic product is forecast by the International
Monetary Fund to grow by less than 3 percent for the third
straight year. Edward Bell, a Middle East economist at the
Economist Intelligence Unit, is more pessimistic. He said growth
when adjusted for inflation had been forecast at 1.6 percent for
this year “but the risks are probably to the downside toward
zero to maybe even a contraction.”  Energy Revenue  The unrest also jeopardizes the development of Lebanon’s
potential hydrocarbon resources, said Bell. Lebanon is opening
up offshore oil and gas exploration to foreign companies as the
country seeks revenue to cut $56 billion of debt. At about 128
percent of GDP, it’s the highest in the Arab world when compared
with the size of the country’s economy.  “Given the current political situation and the potential
for pretty sizable unrest and violence in Lebanon I wouldn’t
expect to see too many companies who’d be willing to sign on in
the immediate future,” Bell said.  The battle in Abra, where firebrand Sunni cleric Assir’s
security compound was located, began on June 23, when his
supporters attacked Lebanese troops, according to the army.
Previously little known, he gained popularity among Sunnis since
last year after speaking out against Hezbollah and later calling
for jihad, or holy war, against Syrian President Assad.  Husband Flees  Assir’s wife, Amal al-Assir, said her husband and his group
didn’t fire at the army and the clash had been planned to get
rid of her outspoken spouse. The fighting ended with Assir and
his supporters fleeing. They remain on the run, his wife said.  “He was scared of the army and of Hezbollah,” said Assir,
dressed in a black cloak and gloves and a veil that covered her
face. She spoke at the couple’s home in a building where the
smell of acrid smoke was still strong.  The violence has alienated Sunnis and Shiites in the area,
said Mahmoud Saleh, a 56-year-old Shiite mechanic on Talet Mar
Elias, a Hezbollah stronghold opposite Abra.  “The only relations that remain are those of mutual
interest,” said Saleh.  A large portrait of “martyr” Mohammed Fayez Saleh, with
the logo of Hezbollah on the corner, looms over the main street
in Talet Mar Elias. Hasan al-Zain, owner of a store selling
water pipes, said Saleh sold flowers from a nearby shop and died
in the Abra fighting. “Assir was an outlaw who used the claims
about Hezbollah to propel himself up,” al-Zain, 30, said.  Inas Dibsi, a housewife, said events in Lebanon are now
confusing and the Abra attacks were frightening.  “We’re disgusted with the situation and do not know where
we’re headed,” Dibsi, who is also 30, said at a Sidon toy store
a few days after the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan started.
“A store like this should be full of shoppers at this time of
year, but people are too worried to go out and shop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in  Beirut  at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  