-- House Lawmakers Say Renewable-Fuel Mandate Will Change
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-07-23T16:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/house-energy-panel-chief-says-renewable-fuel-mandate-must-change.html
Republican and Democratic U.S.
lawmakers said legislative changes probably will be made to the
Renewable Fuel Standard while a repeal of the quotas as demanded
by refiners is unlikely.  “We have some issues we need to address,” Representative
John Shimkus, Illinois Republican, said today at a committee
hearing on the program. “You don’t have enough for repeal. You
do have enough for reform.”  Under the federal law, refiners such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  must use a certain amount of renewable
fuels each year, or buy credits, called Renewable Identification
Numbers, to meet their production quotas. The cost of those RINs
jumped to a record last week on concerns that total renewable
fuel will fall short of meeting the mandate.  Refiners say that increasing mandates for ethanol’s use
coupled with flat overall fuel demand means they will need to
increase the blend of ethanol in gasoline beyond 10 percent, the
level deemed safe for all vehicles. Production of next-generation fuels made from wood waste, algae or used kitchen
grease haven’t kept pace with the forecasts issued by supporters
when the measure passed in 2007.  Shimkus and lawmakers such as Representative Gene Green, a
Texas Democrat, complained today that industry representatives
at a hearing held to entrenched positions, with ethanol
producers saying the current program needs no changes from
Congress, while refiners argued that complete repeal is needed.  “It’s been frustrating to have the same old” arguments,
said Representative Lee Terry, a Nebraska Republican.  Lawmakers from both political parties discussed what
efforts could be made to spur production of low-carbon, advanced
renewable fuels, while ethanol made from corn, which makes up
the overwhelming share of these non-oil fuel sales, faced
criticism for boosting food prices and not cutting greenhouse-gas emissions.  “Corn-based ethanol is problematic,” Democratic
Representative Kathy Castor of  Florida  said at the hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  