-- House to Debate Limiting NSA After Snowden Disclosure
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-07-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/house-to-debate-limiting-nsa-after-snowden-disclosure.html
The fallout from Edward Snowden’s
disclosures of top-secret surveillance programs is reaching the
floor of the U.S. House through debate over proposals to
restrict the  National Security Agency .  The discussion, to be limited to 30 minutes as soon as
today, is being pushed by Representative Justin Amash, a
 Michigan  Republican. His proposal to limit the NSA’s use of
funds to collect data on telephone calls made by U.S. citizens
is opposed by House leaders and the Obama administration.  Amash has proposed an amendment to the annual  Defense
Department  spending measure, H.R. 2397, that would prohibit
intelligence agencies from collecting phone records unless a
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court order stipulates that
the records pertain to an individual under investigation. That
would put an end to the NSA’s blanket collection of metadata on
calls, such as telephone numbers and duration.  “All we need to do is debate a simple question: Should we
fund the NSA’s potential collection of the personal data of
Americans?” Amash said July 22 in testimony before the  House
Rules Committee , which voted to permit floor consideration of
his amendment and one other targeting the NSA.  The push by some House members to place limits on the NSA
led the head of the agency, General Keith Alexander, to schedule
two briefings on surveillance programs for lawmakers yesterday
on short notice. The NSA has said that while it gathers
information on all U.S. phone calls to have it at hand, it
accesses the data only when needed for terrorism investigations.  Bipartisan Support  Snowden, a former security contractor for  Booz Allen
Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , faces U.S. espionage charges for
disclosing secret phone and Internet surveillance programs. He
fled to  Hong Kong  and then Moscow, where he has been at an
airport while seeking a nation that will grant him asylum.  Amash’s amendment has bipartisan support from
Representatives  John Conyers , a Michigan Democrat, Mick Mulvaney, a South Carolina Republican,  Jared Polis , a Colorado
Democrat, and Thomas Massie, a  Kentucky  Republican.  The other amendment, offered by  Florida  Republican
Representative Richard Nugent, would prohibit the NSA from using
funds in the almost $600 billion measure to “acquire, monitor
or store the contents” of electronic communications by “a
United States person.” Nor could the NSA gather such data for
the purposes of targeting an individual in the U.S.  The amendment doesn’t make a distinction between a U.S.
resident or a U.S. citizen.  Obama Opposition  President  Barack Obama ’s administration, while welcoming
debate on the balance between national security and individual
privacy, is calling on House lawmakers to vote against the Amash
amendment, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  “We oppose the current effort in the House to hastily
dismantle one of our intelligence community’s counterterrorism
tools,” Carney said last night in an e-mailed statement. “This
blunt approach is not the product of an informed, open, or
deliberative process.”  House Republican leaders also argued against Amash’s
proposal, warning in a letter yesterday of “unintended
consequences for the intelligence and law enforcement
communities.”  “Eliminating this program altogether without careful
deliberation would not reflect our duty, under Article I of the
Constitution, to provide for the common defense,” according to
the letter, signed by Appropriations Committee Chairman Harold Rogers of Kentucky; Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers
of Michigan; Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte; and
C.W. “Bill” Young of Florida, head of the defense
appropriations subcommittee.  Senate Letter  The leaders of the Senate intelligence committee urged the
House to reject Amash’s amendment, saying the NSA’s phone-records program “has contributed to disrupting numerous
terrorist attacks against our nation.”  “Since the public disclosure of the business records
program, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence has
explored how the program can be modified to add extra privacy
protections without sacrificing its effectiveness,” Chairman
 Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat, and Vice Chairman  Saxby Chambliss , a Georgia Republican, said in a joint statement. “We
believe this debate in the congressional intelligence and
 judiciary  committees should continue and that any amendments to
defund the program on appropriations bills would be unwise.”  After Alexander’s briefing yesterday, Amash said that while
the general provided good information, “I don’t think it’s
going to change people’s views on the collection of Americans’
phone records.”  Amash’s Insistence  Amash’s insistence on a floor vote forced the Rules
Committee to depart from its usual practice of permitting an
unlimited number of appropriations amendments to get floor
consideration.  Leaders count on their rank-and-file to keep the House
running smoothly by supporting them on procedural votes. Amash
said he threatened to oppose the rule for floor consideration --
a step needed to get the defense bill before the full House.  “I wouldn’t support a rule that didn’t have an amendment
like this,” Amash told reporters.  Amash has bucked the leadership before. He’s one of 12
Republicans who didn’t vote for House Speaker  John Boehner  of
 Ohio  when he stood for Speaker in January.  Losing Republican votes at a preliminary stage is an
embarrassment for a leadership team, which then may have to turn
to the opposing party to provide the margin needed to keep the
schedule on track.  Defense Measure  The House began debate yesterday on as many as 100
 amendments  to the measure that funds the Pentagon and related
agencies. While most are getting 10 minutes of floor discussion,
consideration of the NSA amendments will receive 15 minutes
each.  “The American people are ready for this debate, they’re
hoping we’re going to have this debate,” Representative Jim McGovern, a Massachusetts Democrat and member of the Rules
Committee, said July 22. “This, quite frankly, should involve a
week of debate because it’s about who we are as a country.”  Amash said he’s optimistic about his chances of winning a
House vote to restrict the NSA’s surveillance practices.  “There’s widespread disapproval of this program by members
of Congress on both sides,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  