-- Outsourcing Made by India Seen Hit by Immigration Law
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2013-07-24T10:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/outsourcing-made-by-india-seen-hit-by-immigration-law.html
Software coder Srinivas Mullapudi
came to the U.S. on an H-1B employment visa and says he hopes to
send enough money back to India to buy an apartment there. He’s
concerned America’s immigration revision will end that dream.  “There’s a real worry among Indian visa holders that our
employers won’t be able to afford some of us if Congress has its
way,” said the 26-year-old, who’s been paid about $4,800 a
month by a Bangalore-based outsourcing company to work for a
client in  Boston  since fall.  In June the  U.S. Senate  passed an immigration bill that
allows more H-1Bs while also increasing their cost and barring
some companies from placing holders of the visa with customers.
India’s software-export industry relies on an army of such guest
workers to service clients in the U.S., its biggest market. The
tighter rules could sap as much as $8 billion from India’s
already struggling economy, JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimates.  The bill “is fairly detrimental to our business model,”
Ashok Vemuri, the head of Americas at Infosys Ltd., India’s
second-largest software exporter, said in a July 12 interview.
“It’s really action for the creation of jobs” for U.S.
workers.  The Bangalore-based company gets about 60 percent of its
revenue from the U.S., said Vemuri, typical of the sales profile
of the largest Indian outsourcing consultancies.  Infosys (INFO)  is
trying to alert U.S. clients to the threat the bill poses to the
South Asian country’s technology industry, he said.  $87 Billion  India will export as much as  $87 billion  of information
technology services in the year ending March 2014, according to
NASSCOM, an industry lobby. Sales are equivalent to about 4.5
percent of India’s $1.8 trillion gross domestic product.  The backbone of that trade is the H-1B, a non-immigrant
pass that lets companies in the U.S. temporarily hire workers in
specialist fields. The permit lasts for up to three years and
the maximum extension is usually 36 months.  U.S.-registered units of Indian companies apply for the
visas and then often locate the recipient at a client’s company
to support the software.  Indians received more than half the 106,445 first-time
H-1Bs issued in the year ending September 2011, according to a
U.S. Department of Homeland Security  report . The second-biggest
recipient was  China  with 9.5 percent.  The main goals of the Senate bill, the most significant
revision of U.S. immigration law in a generation, are to create
a path to citizenship for about 11 million undocumented
immigrants and direct $46.3 billion toward securing the border
with  Mexico .  The legislation is now before the  House of Representatives ,
whose leaders have expressed opposition to the Senate measure
and say they favor separate, piecemeal bills.  Potential Casualties  Infosys and other Indian outsourcers, such as larger rival
 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  in Mumbai, have emerged as
potential casualties of clauses that change rules governing H-1B
and L-1 visas intended for high-skilled workers.  While the legislation raises the annual H-1B cap to as much
as 180,000 from 65,000, it increases visa costs five-fold for
some companies to $10,000. It also bans larger employers with 15
percent or more of their U.S. workforce on such permits from
sending H-1B staff to client’s sites.  The aim is to balance the U.S. economy’s need to fill
genuine skills gaps with protection for U.S. citizens from
businesses that may use the guest-worker program to bring in
cheaper labor, Neil Ruiz, a senior policy analyst at the
 Brookings Institution  in  Washington , said in an interview.  Schumer’s View  “The goal of the H-1B program is to have American
companies hire foreigners to fill gaps in their employment needs
-- not to simply bring in lower-cost labor from overseas,”
Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat who is the bill’s
principal sponsor, said in an e-mail.  “That’s not what some
companies have been doing. They tend to bring in foreign workers
who get experience at American firms then take that experience
back abroad.”  The ban on client visits may prevent Indian outsourcing
firms from interacting with customers on U.S. soil, said
Infosys’ Vemuri. The company has said it’s exploring contingency
plans, such as providing services from nearby countries or
purchasing U.S. businesses with American consultants.  U.S. enterprises including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  could pick up the
contracts that Indian software exporters might have to jettison,
according to Steven Milunovich, the managing director of UBS
Securities LLC’s U.S. research group in New York.  In Atlanta, 30-year-old Narendra Sripal’s Indian employer
applied to extend his  H-1B  in April. He’s anxious to complete
the process before any tightening of U.S. laws.  Losing Sleep  “I’m losing sleep over it,” said Sripal, who earns about
$5,500 a month. “I’ve seen more people get rejected this year
than ever before. No one becomes a software engineer for an
outsourcing company because they love coding or consulting. It’s
for the status back home -- so my parents can brag about their
son and find me a nice wife. Time’s running out I guess.”  Sripal sends at least $1,000 a month to his family in
Bangalore and Mullapudi, whose H-1B expires in the fall of 2015,
about $650 for his sister’s education in  New Delhi . They asked
that their Indian employers not be named as they aren’t
authorized to speak to the media.  India ’s central bank  estimated  in 2010 that the U.S. and
 Canada  account for about 38 percent of remittances to the
country, citing transfers by information technology workers.
 Remittances  overall were $62 billion in the year ended March.  Trade Barriers  The potential effect of the Democratic-led Senate’s rules
on such transfers and export earnings would ripple through
 Asia ’s No. 3 economy, stoking losses of $6 billion to $8 billion
in the 12 months to March 2015, JPMorgan estimated in a June 24
note.  Indian Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram told
members of the House during a trip to the U.S. earlier this
month that the possible curbs on knowledge workers amount to
non-tariff trade  barriers .  Chidambaram is trying to keep capital flowing into India to
revive its economy, which grew at the slowest pace in a decade
in the year ended March. The country also needs funds to finance
a  record  current-account deficit and to steady the rupee. The
currency sank to an all-time low versus the dollar July 8.  Sangeeta Kumar, for one, hopes India convinces U.S.
lawmakers to think again. The New Delhi-based 32-year-old
analyst at Tata Consultancy Services has set her sights on
working in the world’s biggest economy.  “The immigration bill is a major blow to my career
aspirations,” she said. “Going to the U.S. doesn’t just mean
more money, but also work experience that improves your long-term job prospects.”  Possible Reprieve  For now, India may get a reprieve after the Republican-led
House delayed consideration of immigration bills until the fall.  House Republicans’ decision to act in a piecemeal fashion,
instead of on one comprehensive bill, points to a drawn-out
process, diminishing the chances that President  Barack Obama 
will sign his top domestic priority into law by year’s end.  Current draft House legislation also lacks the clause
barring visa-dependent employers from client sites, said
Brookings’ Ruiz. The shape and timing of the final law remain
unclear, he said.  A clampdown may have a silver lining for India by ensuring
skilled workers stay in or return to the country sooner, said
Shubhada Rao, chief economist at  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)  in Mumbai.  “I don’t think it’ll be a challenge for those people to
find appropriate work here,” Rao said in an interview.  The issue is whether such employment would be as good, said
25-year-old Soma Krada, an Infosys H-1B employee in Houston.  “If I have to go back once my visa expires or if this law
forces my company to bring me back home, my life will instantly
change,” she said. “My guess is I’ll find work. But will it be
with Infosys? Will I earn the same as what I’m earning now? It’s
something we all think about. It’s worrying.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  