-- How Republicans Can Help Us Grow Old Gracefully
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-23T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/how-republicans-can-help-us-grow-old-gracefully.html
If you thought the fight over
Obamacare was bruising, brace yourself for the coming battle
over long-term-care insurance. Demographic pressure and ill-fitting public programs make the current approach unsustainable,
whether we like it or not.  Long-term care for the ill and impaired is a good example
of market failure. With a year in a nursing home costing an
average of  $80,000 , few families can save enough to meet their
own needs. It may not even be rational to do so: About  9 percent 
of people over 85 live in nursing homes. Because few people
aspire to be one of them, there’s little incentive to save for
the possibility.  Yet most of us will eventually need help.  Two-thirds  of
those 65 years or older will require assistance at some point.
Although it’s hard to predict the cost of any one person’s care,
the total bill is huge -- the U.S. spent  $134 billion  on
institutional care in 2011, plus $58 billion on home and other
community-based care.  Clearly, what’s needed is long-term-care insurance. Yet the
private insurance market has proved ill-suited to this type of
coverage: Because future costs are hard to predict, it’s
difficult to set adequate premiums. A number of large insurers
beset by this problem -- and, more recently, low  interest rates ,
which reduce revenue -- have  stopped issuing  new policies
altogether.  Lackluster demand doesn’t help. In 2011, just  3 percent  of
U.S. adults had long-term-care coverage, and only  20 percent  of
large employers even offer it. With average premiums as high as
$5,000 a year for a healthy 60-year-old couple, even Americans
who can afford it may choose to spend their money on something
else. And that’s assuming they qualify: As many as 35 percent of
60-year-olds can’t get coverage because of health problems.  Fallback Plan  So instead of relying on insurance, most Americans who get
long-term care end up falling back on Medicaid. This is not an
ideal strategy for aging with dignity; Medicaid is a welfare
program, and to qualify beneficiaries must exhaust most of their
assets.  Nor is it good fiscal policy. Medicaid is already
overwhelming federal and state budgets, and growing fast because
of the Affordable Care Act. The problem will only get worse. By
2030,  one in four  adult Americans will be 65 or older, up from
one in six in 2010. By 2050 the demand for long-term caregivers
may more than double, to encompass about  10 percent  of the
working-age population, according to the  Congressional Budget
Office . This challenge is too big for families to face on their
own.  Demographic pressure, market failure and an inadequate
welfare safety net suggest two options for federal policy
makers. The first is to lean harder on the private market, by
creating a combination of incentives for people to buy private
insurance, subsidies to make that insurance affordable, and
regulations to ensure it meets most people’s needs. If that
sounds like a replay of Obamacare, with its unwieldy
amalgamation of private and government roles, it is.  A better option is for the U.S. to  follow the lead  of
almost every other developed country and create a social
insurance plan for long-term care, in which the government
collects premiums from the working-age population and uses the
money to fund care for those who qualify. More like Medicare
than Obamacare.  Such a system eliminates the problem of adverse selection,
in which the people most likely to sign up for insurance are
those most likely to need it, driving up costs. This is the
problem that killed the  CLASS Act , a voluntary government
program included in the Affordable Care Act and later abandoned
because it wasn’t actuarially sound.  Republican Champion  The policy fix for long-term care is thus relatively
straightforward -- what’s needed is someone to champion the
cause. It’s understandable if Democrats, still smarting from the
battle over health care, are wary of taking up the challenge.
Republicans, though, have good reason to take on this
responsibility for them, because a national long-term-care
program would do several things that Republicans like.  First, it would shrink the Medicaid program, which
Republicans have long sought to cut. It would also relieve
pressure on states, which pay  almost half  the cost of Medicaid.
With a federal program to manage long-term care, Republican
governors could more easily limit or cut state taxes.  It would also offer Republicans a chance to win middle-age
voters, and cater to their aging base.  Fifty-six percent  of
voters ages 65 and older picked  Mitt Romney  over  Barack Obama  in
the 2012 presidential election, but just 51 percent of those
ages 45 to 64 did. Making it easier for people to care for their
parents could be good fodder for campaigns; if that’s not pro-family, it’s hard to see what is.  The politics of long-term care become especially pronounced
at the state level. By 2030, the states with the highest
 projected share  of elderly residents will be  Florida ,  New
Mexico ,  Wyoming ,  Maine  and  Montana  -- states that vote
Republican or where Republicans would like to compete to retake
the White House.  Unlike the health-care system, the current long-term-care
system works well for almost nobody. And fixing it isn’t about
redistributing wealth, or catering to one political philosophy
or another. Whatever ideology you adhere to, we’ll all get old,
and almost none of us can afford to pay for it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 