-- Toyota Director Hogan to Focus on Aiding Latin America Expansion
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-07-23T08:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/toyota-director-hogan-to-focus-on-aiding-latin-america-expansion.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s only non-Japanese board member said the world’s largest automaker is
underperforming in  Brazil  and Argentina and that his focus is on
helping the company expand in Latin America.  “It’s always been a curiosity to me as to why Toyota has
underperformed particularly in those markets and frankly
speaking I used to kid Akio about that,” said Mark Hogan, 62, a
former  General Motors Co. (GM)  executive, referring to President Akio Toyoda. “Toyota reputationally has a very strong image in the
Latin American market, so its market share should and will
increase.”  Toyoda in March named Steve St. Angelo to head Latin
America and Caribbean operations, leaving four of the company’s
eight regional operations under non-Japanese nationals. The
Toyota City, Japan-based automaker counted on Latin America,
Oceania,  Africa  and the Middle East for about 18 percent of
revenue in the 12 months ended in March.  Hogan, the first foreigner on the Japanese automaker’s
board since 2007, also said his experience running GM’s business
in Brazil will help him advise St. Angelo on operating in the
region.  Hogan’s ties to Toyoda stretch back more than a decade,
when both worked at the now-defunct Toyota-GM joint venture
plant in California called New United Motor Manufacturing Inc.  After leaving GM, Hogan spent three years as president of
Canadian auto-parts maker  Magna International Inc. (MG)  from 2004. He
became an overseas adviser for Toyota in 2011 after the Japanese
company recalled more than 10 million vehicles worldwide in 2009
and 2010 for defects associated with unintended acceleration.  Toyota has made progress on its past weakness of
“methodical, slow decision-making” by empowering local
executives, Hogan said today.  -- Editors: Dave McCombs, Chua Kong Ho  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  