-- Peabody Posts Surprise Profit After Rebound in U.S. Coal Demand
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-07-23T12:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/peabody-posts-surprise-profit-after-rebound-in-u-s-coal-demand.html
Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest
U.S. coal producer, reported a surprise second-quarter profit as
demand at domestic power utilities rebounded.  The net income of 33 cents a share compared with a profit
of 78 cents a year earlier, the St. Louis-based company said in
a statement today. The profit was compared with the 5-cent loss
that was the average of 23 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sales fell to $1.73 billion from $1.98 billion, trailing
the $1.81 billion average of 13 estimates.  U.S. coal consumption rose 9.5 percent in the quarter,
according to U.S. Department of Energy’s Energy Information
Administration  data . The EIA expects domestic use to increase
6.7 percent this year as electricity demand climbs and prices
rise for natural gas, a competing fuel burned at  power plants .  Coal from Peabody’s U.S. operations is cheaper for
utilities to burn than gas, the price of which has almost
doubled from a decade low in April 2012.  “Where they produce their coal is now well in the money
versus natural gas,”  Jeremy Sussman , an analyst at Clarkson
Capital Markets in New York, said by phone before the results
were announced.  The price of coal  produced  in the Powder River Basin mining
region in the western U.S., where Peabody operates its most
productive U.S. mines, averaged $10.60 a short ton in the
quarter, 35 percent higher than a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Peabody is among U.S. coal-mining companies betting that
rising  gas prices  and a hotter North American summer boosts
domestic coal use after the industry shut down operations and
cut jobs in 2012 amid plummeting consumption of the fuel after
mild weather and low gas prices reduced demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  