-- Penn National Falls After Cutting View on Competition
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-07-24T22:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/penn-national-falls-most-since-october-2011-after-lower-forecast.html
(Corrects closing price information in second paragraph of
story published yesterday.)  Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN) , the
casino operator that plans to split into two companies this
year, dropped the most since 2011 as bad weather and increasing
competition prompted it to cut its forecast.  The shares  fell  7.4 percent to $49.98 in  New York , after
the company reported a second-quarter loss and trimmed its
outlook for profit excluding such items as interest and taxes.
That was the Wyomissing, Pennsylvania-based company’s largest
drop since August 2011.  Penn National, which operates 28 casinos and racetracks,
said flooding and tornadoes, as well as “suicidal” marketing
tactics by competitors affected its quarterly results. The
company cited intense rivalry in the region near Cincinnati,
 Ohio , after  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  opened a new location
there and weaker-than-expected results from newer casinos in
Columbus and Toledo, also in that state.  “I’ve never seen an industry so desperate to give away its
bottom line as this industry,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Peter Carlino said on a conference call today. “They’re
suicidal,” said Carlino, speaking of competitors’ discounts and
promotional credits to attract gamblers’ dollars.  Penn National posted a net loss of $12.2 million, or 16
cents a share, for the quarter ended June 30, including a $76
million charge related to the Argosy Casino in Sioux City,  Iowa .
A year earlier, it earned $66.7 million, or 63 cents, according
to a statement.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, a measure known as Ebitda, will be $805.1 million
for the year, down from a prior forecast of $875.8 million
previously, according to the statement.  Ohio Casinos  Penn National’s Columbus, Ohio, casino, which opened last
year, hasn’t achieved the market share or margins anticipated,
the company said. And while the company’s Toledo property, also
new in 2012, met revenue expectations, its operating margin has
been lower than anticipated.  The company will still earn a return of greater than 20
percent on its investment in the Columbus and Toledo casinos,
Chief Financial Officer William Clifford said on the call.  “So we are not in any shape or form panicked about our
return,” he said.  Penn National owns the Hollywood Casino in Lawrenceburg,
 Indiana , that competes with the Horseshoe Casino,  twenty miles 
west in Cincinnati. That  property , which is owned by Rock Gaming
LLC and Caesars, opened in March.  Company Split  Penn National will try to maintain its slot machine
customers “and not chase this insanity,” executives said.  Caesars is focused on building long-lasting relationships
through its  loyalty program , Gary Thompson, a company spokesman
said via e-mail.  Penn National plans to split later this year into two
publicly traded entities, a real estate investment trust, Gaming
and Leisure Properties Inc., which will own the casinos, and a
management company, Penn National, which will run the
businesses.  The company lowered the anticipated annual rent which will
be paid to the trust by $16.6 million to $420 million. That will
result in a less-than-expected dividend payment to trust
shareholders of $2.32 a year, instead of $2.44.  The company’s shares are up 1.8 percent this year, while
the Russell 1000 Index has added 19 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  