-- Pine River Picks REIT Winners in Renewed Housing Bets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-07-23T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/pine-river-picks-reit-winners-in-renewed-housing-bets.html
Pine River Capital Management LP,
whose bets on U.S. home-loan bonds fueled the second-best hedge
fund performance of last year, is picking winners and losers
among the publicly traded  companies  that invest in the debt.  The firm bought shares of mortgage real-estate investment
trusts, including two run by ex-Freddie Mac portfolio chief Gary Kain, while wagering against others amid the industry’s worst
quarterly slump since 2007, said Steve Kuhn, its fixed-income
trading head. Pine River, which disclosed this month it
quintupled its stake to 9.2 percent in Kain’s  American Capital
Mortgage Investment Corp. (MTGE) , is investing based on its view of the
skills of the managers and the value of their assets, he said.  Pine River is increasing its REIT investments as the $13.6
billion firm also renews bets on mortgage bonds following a
slump sparked by the Federal Reserve’s comments on potential
stimulus reduction. The Minnetonka, Minnesota-based firm views
home-loan bonds without government backing as cheap relative to
corporate securities -- after earlier this year cutting holdings
in its largest fund to less than half the share in 2011.  “It’s the first time I can say that in a long time,” said
Colin Teichholtz, a senior portfolio manager focused on fixed
income. “The sector was getting better fundamentally, but the
pricing was just less interesting to us. Now, it’s not as
compelling as the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity we saw in 2011
but it’s still attractive.”  Subprime Securities  Subprime-mortgage securities and other debt known as non-agency bonds fueled a 35 percent return last year for the $3.6
billion Pine River Fixed Income Fund managed by Kuhn.  The fund has gained 6.6 percent this year, even after a 1.4
percent loss last month as the Fed roiled credit markets with
signals it may reduce stimulus efforts, according to an investor
with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. Its $2.6 billion multi-strategy fund, which can invest in the debt fund and is run by
Aaron Yeary and James Clark, lost 2 percent in June to trim
gains to 6.9 percent this year.  Kuhn and Teichholtz declined to comment on the performance.  SkyBridge Capital, which invests $5 billion in hedge funds
for clients, had been reducing its allocations to mortgage
managers, according to Troy Gayeski, a senior portfolio manager.
Investments in vehicles focused on government-backed securities
fell to 25 percent, from 40 percent in December and non-agency
strategies dropped to 28 percent from 36 percent in March.  The New York-based firm has since reversed that trend.  ‘Completely Refreshed’  Gayeski said he thinks non-agency debt is attractive
because its recovery this month has trailed other risky assets
such as equities, even with housing improving and defaults
falling. Bonds whose returns are tied to how fast homeowners
repay government-backed loans potentially may do even better in
the next few months after a “shellacking” in April and May, he
said.  “Looking at the overall opportunity set, we think it’s
been completely refreshed,” said Gayeski, whose company has
disclosed investments in Pine River’s funds.  Pine River has focused on mortgage REITs, which use
borrowed money to invest in home-loan debt, amid a rout in the
shares. The shares fell as the falling values of their holdings,
amplified by leverage, prompted investors to sell.  Reits Drop  A Bloomberg index of the companies declined 17 percent,
including reinvested dividends, since April, with American
Capital Mortgage dropping 26 percent.  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO) , a mortgage REIT overseen by
Pine River and run by separate employees to the hedge fund, has
lost 13.5 percent. Pine River, which also runs Silver Bay Realty
Trust Corp., a single-family home rental company, doesn’t invest
in its own REITs.  Kain’s  American Capital Agency Corp. (AGNC) , which Pine River also
owns shares in, has fallen 30.4 percent. The firm, which only
invests in government-backed securities, is less attractive than
American Capital Mortgage, a REIT that also buys non-agency
bonds, Teichholtz said.  He declined to comment on other individual REITs, including
those it’s betting against. While it likes Kain’s firms partly
because he’s “a great manager,” it also tries to targets REITs
trading at larger discounts to its estimates of their current
book value, Teichholtz said.  ‘Pretty Attractive’  “To buy into pools of those bonds at 80 to 90 cents on the
dollar, we think that’s pretty attractive,” according to
Teichholtz, who said Pine River is also putting on hedges
against rising interest rates as part of the strategy.  Richard Eckert, an MLV & Co. analyst, sees many of the
firms as good bets because they can earn higher yields on newly
purchased bonds while the Fed continues to hold the cost of
their short-term borrowing near zero and their shares trade
below the net value of their assets.  Investors need to be careful because some may be taking too
much risk with their leverage and liquidity, meaning they may
fail to navigate any further bond volatility, he said.  “There still are some cowboys out there,” said Eckert,
who declined to talk about specific companies as he prepared to
publish research on the sector.  Brian Taylor, who spent 14 years at hedge fund EBF &
Associates, founded Pine River in 2002, naming it after a
Minnesota town close to where he has a lake house.  Regulatory Changes  The company decided to focus on mortgage investing after
the dislocations created by the 2008 financial crisis and
resulting changes driven partly by regulators and Wall Street
risk managers. Banks scaled back trading desks and government-chartered Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac reduced their investment
portfolios, Kuhn and Teichholtz said.  In 2012, Pine River’s fixed-income fund ranked No. 2 in a
Bloomberg Markets magazine’s list of top-performing hedge funds
overseeing at least $1 billion, as mortgage managers including
Metacapital Management LP and Seer Capital Management LP
outperformed all other strategies. Mortgage bets also helped the
fund rank No. 7 in the magazine’s 2010 list.  Pine River’s hedge funds earlier this year increased
exposure to equities, including financial companies, and
corporate bonds. In the past year, the firm also built an
energy-related equities team of six based in Pine River’s Austin
office, which opened in February to attract investment talent
and clients.  Fed Signals  Like in 2011, when a rally in mortgage bonds was disrupted
by Europe’s debt crisis, the market has recently become more
challenging as Fed officials signal they may slow their $85
billion in monthly bond buying as the economy shows signs of
strengthening.  Former Deutsche Bank AG banker Neil Ahuja’s Premium Point
Investments LP saw its mortgage credit fund lose an estimated
3.4 percent last month, to leave it up 5.9 percent this year,
according to people familiar with its return.  The credit fund run by MKP Capital Management LLC, which
oversees $7.3 billion, fell 4.6 percent, to trim its gains to 5
percent. Don Brownstein’s Structured Portfolio Management LLC’s
SPM Core fund fell an estimated 2.5 percent to expand 2013
losses to 8.4 percent.  Spokesmen for the companies declined to comment.  While various types of government-backed mortgage bonds
have cheapened, the opportunity isn’t as attractive as non-agency debt, according to Teichholtz.  Interest-only and inverse interest-only securities, debt
that loses value when homeowners refinance, has recovered after
a rout sparked by concern about potential government policy
changes.  “That’s the one market that actually got bailed out when
interest rates sold off so hard,” he said. “We still think
there’s value there, but not as much as we were hoping for.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net 
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  