-- Putin Convicted Foe Navalny Polls Second in Moscow Mayoral Race
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-07-23T12:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/putin-convicted-foe-navalny-polls-second-in-moscow-mayoral-race.html
Alexey Navalny, a leading opponent
of Russian President  Vladimir Putin  who was sentenced to a jail
term last week, is the highest-rated challenger of incumbent
Moscow Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin , according to an opinion poll.  Sobyanin is the frontrunner to retain his post in the Sept.
8 election with 54 percent support, while Navalny leads the rest
of the pack with 9 percent, the polling company All-Russian
Center for the Study of  Public Opinion , or VTsIOM, said by e-mail today.  Navalny last week received a five-year prison sentence for
embezzlement, then was subsequently released for the duration of
the appeals process after thousands of backers protested his
conviction in central Moscow and other major Russian cities. He
credited that show of support with winning his freedom rather
than the government intervening to legitimize the mayoral vote.  “I wasn’t released by Sobyanin or Putin, but these
people,” Navalny said on the on-line television channel Rain
yesterday. He also pledged to keep members of the president’s
 United Russia  Party out of  city hall  if he wins the election.  Navalny’s recognition rose to 80 percent from 71 percent
this month, VTsIOM said, citing the July 9-11 survey of 1,200
Muscovites. The results have a 3.9 percentage point margin of
error.  Putin appointed Sobyanin, his then chief of staff, as
Moscow mayor in 2010 to end the 14-year rule of Yury Luzhkov.
The president backed Sobyanin’s push for a snap election,
allowing him to capitalize on popular support. The vote will be
the capital’s first direct ballot for a mayor in 10 years.  Collecting Signatures  Sobyanin asked United Russia, which Navalny labeled as “a
party of thieves and swindlers” to collect the signatures of
municipal deputies and help Navalny register as a candidate. The
opposition leader accepted 49 of those signatures and collected
the 110 himself, according to his LiveJournal blog. He submitted
documents for registration on July 10.  On July 18, Navalny  was convicted of embezzlement by a
judge in Kirov, 900 kilometers (560 miles) northeast of Moscow.  A lawyer and anti-corruption activist who helped organize
the biggest protests against Putin’s 13-year-rule in 2011 and
last year, Navalny vowed to contest the next presidential
election in 2018 and put Putin and his billionaire allies in
jail if he won. His conviction, if upheld, would preclude him
from ever holding public office.  Thousands of people in Moscow protested the verdict, which
also sparked condemnation by the U.S. and  Europe , on the eve of
a meeting of Group of 20 finance chiefs. The benchmark Micex
Index slumped as much as 1.6 percent after the ruling.  Putin, 60, has hardened his response against critics since
winning a new six-year presidential term last year. Some
protesters have been imprisoned, while economist Sergei Guriev
and former chess grandmaster  Garry Kasparov , critics fearing
prosecution, fled Russia this year  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  