-- Radware Rises on U.S. DHS Program Bids: Israel Overnight
-- B y   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-07-24T07:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/radware-rises-on-u-s-dhs-program-bids-israel-overnight.html
Radware Ltd. (RDWR)  rose to a nine-week
high in New York on speculation the Israeli technology maker
will benefit from increased spending to bolster defenses against
computer hackers.  The shares advanced for a fifth day, climbing 0.7 percent
to $15.19. Partner Communications Company Ltd., the second
largest Israeli mobile-phone provider, declined the most on the
Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index, which dropped 0.8 percent.
 Gazit-Globe Ltd. (GZT)  closed at a 1 percent premium to the Tel Aviv
shares, the biggest among dual-listed companies.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
are among contractors competing for as much as $6 billion in
contracts that the U.S. Department of  Homeland Security  plans to
award as early as this month for an unclassified program to
protect federal, state and local agencies’ computer networks.
Radware is joining with larger companies to take part in the
bids, Howard Teicher, a vice president for the public sector for
Radware, said in an interview July 18.  “The company’s got some interesting technology that is
gaining share in the U.S.,” Alex Henderson, an analyst at
Needham & Co. in New York who rates Radware hold, said by phone
yesterday. “It would make sense for Radware to be partnering
with some of these players.”  The program follows an executive order from President
 Barack Obama  made in February, which directed the DHS to ensure
that unclassified government networks are scanned for threats
and defended from attacks. As many as five companies will be
given contracts by the  General Services Administration ,
according to a request for bids.  Income Outlook  “We look forward to DHS making their decision for this
next-gen cybersecurity for the government,” Brian Gallagher,
Radware’s director of public relations, said in an interview
yesterday.  The Tel Aviv-based company is  forecast  to report a 26
percent drop in net income when it releases second-quarter
earnings tomorrow, according to the average estimate of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales were probably little
changed at $47 million, according to seven estimates.  Profit fell 35 percent in the first quarter to $4.49
million, trailing analysts’ estimates for $5.31 million, as
sales in the European, Middle East and Africa region slowed. The
company received 30 percent of its  revenue  from the region last
year.  “Last quarter the company missed the numbers and they set
the bar really low for the June quarter because of it,”
Henderson said. “If they miss again in Europe in the June
quarter, then they’ve got a structural problem in the sales
force and they’re going to need to fix it.”  Partner, Gazit  Radware announced its first buyback since 2011 on April 25
after almost doubling cash and equivalents to $209.3 million in
the three years to the end of 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Shares have tumbled 19 percent in the past year.  The Bloomberg Israel-US measure snapped a four-day rally,
falling to 95.74. The  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  was little changed at 1,230.13
at 10:12 a.m. in Israel  Partner, based in Rosh Ha’Ayin, Israel, declined 4.7
percent to $7.48, after rallying the most in seven months July
22. The shares in Tel Aviv this morning slipped 0.3 percent to
27.07 shekels, or $7.57.  Gazit-Globe, the multinational real estate company, gained
0.4 percent to $13.69. The Tel Aviv-listed stock advanced for
the first time this week, rising 0.2 percent to 48.55 shekels,
or $13.58.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  