-- Riskiest Trains Targeted by Canada Rule for 2-Person Crew
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-07-23T21:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/transport-canada-says-dangerous-goods-trains-can-t-be-left-alone.html
Canada  responded to a deadly train
explosion in Quebec by setting new emergency requirements for
railway companies, including having at least two employees
operating shipments of dangerous goods.  Trains that carry such goods can no longer be left
unattended on a main track, the Transport Department said in a
statement from Ottawa today. The rules also outline stronger
policies about setting brakes and guarding against unauthorized
entry to locomotives. Additional measures are a “distinct
possibility,” Gerard McDonald, an official at Transport Canada,
told reporters.  “The disaster brought to light several industry practices
which have caused some concern,” McDonald, assistant deputy
minister for safety and security at Transport Canada, told
reporters on a conference call. “Given that, with an abundance
of preoccupation, we thought it should be prudent to implement
these measures now.”  The temporary directive came as investigators seek clues
into what caused a Montreal, Maine & Atlantic train loaded with
crude oil to roll from its parking spot into Lac-Megantic,
 Quebec  on July 6, creating a massive explosion that killed about
50 and leveled much of the downtown. It was the worst rail
disaster in Canada in more than a century.  The train, which had a crew of one, was left unattended
overnight near the town. McDonald declined to comment on the
investigation of the crash.  Permanent Rules  The emergency directive will expire in December, and the
government will ask railways to develop new permanent rules
before then that reflect the directives announced today,
McDonald said.  According to the statement from Transport Canada, the
government has already been in contact with the nation’s two
biggest railroads,  Canadian Pacific Railway (CP)  Ltd. and  Canadian
National Railway (CNR)  Co., about the new rules.  “Transport Canada inspectors are at Lac-Megantic
determining whether there has been non-compliance with
regulatory requirements,” the department said in its statement.
“The majority of railways maintain a culture of safety and
security, as shown by the notable decline in derailments and
train accidents over the past few years.”  Unintended Movements  Canadian National Chief Executive Claude Mongeau said in a
statement today the new measures will reduce the risks of
unintended train movements that could lead to accidents.
Canadian Pacific said July 18 it has strengthened safety
measures after its own evaluation.  “Canadian Pacific welcomes Transport Canada’s Directive,
and as a result of the recent steps we took to strengthen our
railway’s operating procedures we are in full compliance of what
was announced by the federal agency,” spokesman  Ed Greenberg 
said today by telephone. “CP is prepared to work with Transport
Canada in looking at any future steps that will make the
industry safer.”  While welcoming the new measures, opposition lawmakers said
more needs to be done, including the phasing out of DOT-111 tank
cars used on the MM&A train. Olivia Chow, a lawmaker for the
main opposition New Democratic Party, also said she wants
lawmakers to seek “operational protocol” documents used by
railway companies.  “Canadians need to know that the trains coming through
their neighborhoods are safe,” Chow told reporters today in
Ottawa.  Parliamentary Vote  A parliamentary committee that oversees transport issues
voted unanimously to “conduct a study on rail safety when more
findings of the Transportation Safety Board investigation into
the disaster at Lac-Megantic are available.” Parliament is
currently in its summer recess.  Lac-Megantic Mayor Colette Roy-Laroche said today the city
plans to sue MM&A after the railroad stopped paying contractors
hired to perform cleanup work. Lac-Megantic has had to pay crews
more than C$4 million ($3.9 million) to allow for work to
continue, Roy-Laroche told reporters today in a televised news
conference. The city will sue MM&A unless the railroad turns
over documents -- such as a list of contractors and copies of
contracts -- within 48 hours, she said.  “Any delay in the cleanup and the recovery of oil causes a
serious prejudice to the city and its citizens,” Roy-Laroche
said. “I hope MM&A will meet its commitments and behave like a
good corporate citizen.”  Clean-up crews in Lac-Megantic are still working to recover
5.7 million liters (1.5 million gallons) of crude oil from the
spill, Quebec’s environment ministry said yesterday in a press
release. The train contained about 7.2 million liters of crude
at the time of the derailment, the government said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  