-- Rate Moves Fail to Save Rupiah as Deficit Stays: Southeast Asia
-- B y   N e i l   C h a t t e r j e e   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-07-24T11:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/rate-moves-fail-to-save-rupiah-as-deficit-stays-southeast-asia.html
The Indonesian rupiah’s decline to a
four-year low this week adds to evidence that two interest-rate
increases and the first fuel-price boost in five years haven’t
done enough to curb  Indonesia ’s current-account deficit.  The central bank said yesterday it sees the rupiah moving
to a new equilibrium, after the currency slid 1.3 percent. The
rupiah weakened further to 10,260 a dollar today, the lowest
level since July 2009, according to prices from local banks. It
will probably reach 10,340 by the end of 2013, according to the
average prediction as of today by the four most-accurate rupiah
forecasters of the past year.  “It looks to be more of a case of too late rather than too
little,” said Wellian Wiranto, an investment strategist at the
wealth management unit of Barclays Plc, which sees the rupiah at
10,800 by mid-2014. “While the host of measures they have
adopted have been laudably decisive and helpful, they simply
take time to work.”  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy has suffered capital
outflows even after policy makers increased the benchmark rate
by 0.75 percentage point and raised subsidized fuel prices in
the past two months. With elections next year making further
moves to reduce subsidies more difficult, officials may have to
rely on higher borrowing costs and a weaker rupiah to cool
demand for imports that spurred a record $24 billion current-account gap in 2012.  “Indonesia needs it to curb import demand,” said Mirza
Adityaswara, chief executive officer of Indonesia Deposit
Insurance Corp., referring to a weaker currency. “Raising rates
will give an impact to the economy but Indonesia needs a slow
economy to narrow the current-account deficit.”  Capital Flows  The current-account shortfall leaves the country vulnerable
to volatile global capital flows, Wiranto said.  Foreign direct investment into Indonesia rose 18.9 percent
last quarter from a year earlier, the smallest gain since 2010,
the investment coordinating board said yesterday. At the same
time, domestic investment surged 59.1 percent. Rising local
investment has fueled demand for capital imports and contributed
to the current-account deficit.  The rupiah has fallen more than 7 percent in the past 12
months, making it the worst performer after the yen among 11
Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Foreign funds have pulled
about $3 billion from Indonesian stocks and $1.8 billion from
rupiah-denominated  government bonds  since May 22, when U.S.
Federal Reserve comments spurred speculation it may reduce
stimulus, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Healthier Balance  A rupiah level of about 10,000 isn’t a cause for concern
and will help make the  trade balance  healthier,  Bank Indonesia 
Governor Agus Martowardojo said July 17. The monetary authority
sees a need to take steps against faster inflation and to narrow
the current-account gap, he said.  The currency plunged the most in 13 months yesterday in
onshore trading, as Bank Indonesia allows a more rapid slide
toward levels quoted in the offshore market. The central bank
has allowed the rupiah to gradually depreciate, especially this
month, Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said July 12.  “It looks as though Bank Indonesia has finally accepted
that it can’t hold the rupiah below 10,000 without burning an
unacceptable level of reserves and indeed a controlled
depreciation remains the best way of trying to keep the current-account deficit in check,” said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , a
Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG.  Further Weakening  The most accurate rupiah forecasters in the past year were
Citigroup Inc., Macquarie Group Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc and
Barclays, according to  Bloomberg rankings . Currency forwards
show traders are betting on further depreciation in the rupiah.
One-month non-deliverable forwards were weaker than the spot
rate at about 10,480 today.  Rising wealth and investment has spurred economic growth
above 6 percent for more than two years, leading imports to
climb 8 percent last year, according to government data. That
came as exports fell 9.8 percent because of weak prices for
commodities such as crude oil, gas and coal.  Indonesia sought to cut its import bill by lifting
subsidized fuel prices in June, a move that Finance Minister
Chatib Basri said would strengthen the rupiah to meet the
government’s target for the currency to average 9,600 per dollar
this year.  The central bank’s next move could be further increases in
 interest rates , said  Fauzi Ichsan , an economist at Standard
Chartered Plc in Jakarta.  Rate Increases  “Indonesia needs to raise rates again in August or
September by 25 basis points, and 25 basis points in the fourth
quarter, to make foreign investors interested in investing in
Indonesia,” he said. “Right now Indonesia needs more capital
inflows to reduce the current-account deficit.”  The shortfall may reach $20 billion this year and the
current account will remain in deficit next year as no near-term
rebound of commodity prices is in sight, he said.  Reducing the deficit in the longer-term will require re-tooling the economy to manufacture higher value goods for
export, increasing productivity and improving infrastructure,
steps that the government is starting to take, said  Gundy
Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in
 Singapore .  Indonesia is encouraging investment in iron, steel, and
petrochemicals production to cut dependence on imports, the
country’s Industry Minister Mohamad S. Hidayat told Bloomberg TV
Indonesia in an interview yesterday. The country is also
tackling food imports by trying to grow more rice, build sugar
mills, and boost output of products such as chocolate.  “The current-account deficit is increasingly a structural
problem that cannot be solved by monetary policy alone,”
Cahyadi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Chatterjee in Singapore at 
 nchatterjee1@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  