-- Travelers Profit Advances 85% as CEO Fishman Increases Rates
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-07-23T12:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/travelers-profit-advances-85-as-ceo-fishman-increases-rates.html
Travelers Cos. (TRV) , the lone property-casualty insurer in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, said
second-quarter profit climbed 85 percent as price increases
helped improve margins.  Net income increased to $925 million, or $2.41 a share,
from $499 million, or $1.26, a year earlier, the New York-based
insurer said today in a statement. Operating profit, which
excludes some investment results, was $2.13 per share, beating
the $1.59  average estimate  of 24 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Travelers has raised prices for coverage as low interest
rates pressure income from its bond portfolio and severe weather
increases claims. Chief Executive Officer Jay Fishman, 60, has
emphasized his strategy to charge some customers more to help
the insurer achieve “mid-teens” return on equity.  “Pricing is a big issue right now,” Paul Newsome, an
analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, said in an interview
before results were announced. “It’s important because it
ultimately translates into margin expansion.”  The insurer advanced 0.7 percent to $86 at 7:55 a.m. before
the start of normal trading in New York. The stock had climbed
19 percent this year through yesterday, matching the advance of
the 30-company Dow.  Travelers made 5.7 cents for every premium dollar it
collected in the quarter, compared with spending $1.01 a year
earlier. Catastrophes costs fell to $340 million before tax from
$549 million a year earlier.  Policy Sales  U.S. property insurers faced claims in the second quarter
from a May tornado that leveled an Oklahoma City suburb and
killed at least 24 people. The storm probably cost the industry
$2 billion to $3.5 billion, according to an estimate from
catastrophe modeler Risk Management Solutions Inc.  Policy sales fell by less than 1 percent $5.82 billion the
company’s price increases hurt the premiums it collected in its
personal insurance business. Its commercial insurance divisions
fared better as rate increases helped boost sales by about 1
percent in both the business insurance and financial,
professional and international insurance segments.  “We are very pleased with the pricing levels we
achieved,” Fishman said in the statement. “However, given the
environment of low interest rates and volatile weather patterns,
we will continue to seek higher margins.”  Cost Savings  The insurer it is targeting $140 million in annual cost
reductions at an auto unit, Travelers said today in a regulatory
filing. The plan is expected to be fully implemented in 2015 and
will result in $16 million of costs, $10 million of which will
count against earnings in the three months ending Sept. 30,
according to the filing.  The Federal Reserve has held its benchmark lending rate
near zero since December 2008 to help stimulate the U.S.
economy. The central bank also expanded its  balance sheet  to
more than $3.5 trillion by buying bonds. The efforts lowered
borrowing costs for governments, companies and individuals, and
hurt investors that rely on fixed-income securities.  Treasury yields rose last month after Chairman Ben S. Bernanke indicated the Fed may begin tapering that program later
this year and end it in mid-2014. He has since said that the
pace will hinge on the performance of the economy.  Travelers’ book value per share, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, fell to $66.65 from $68 at the end of March as its
fixed-income portfolio pared some unrealized gains.  The insurer’s results were helped by a $59 million payout
from tied to a legal dispute and $63 million from the resolution
of a tax matter.  Fishman is also looking to build Travelers’ business
outside the U.S. Last month, he struck a deal to buy Dominion of
 Canada  General Insurance Co. from E-L Financial Corp. for about
$1.1 billion. The transaction will give Fishman’s company more
auto, personal property and commercial customers in Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  