-- Travelers Book Value Drops Most Since 2008 as Munis Slump
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-07-23T20:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/travelers-book-value-drops-most-since-2008-amid-bond-price-slump.html
Travelers Cos. (TRV) , the second-largest
U.S. commercial insurer, posted the biggest quarterly decline
since 2008 in a key measure of the company’s value as higher
 interest rates  pressured its bond portfolio.  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, slipped
to $66.65 per share from $68 three months earlier, the company
said today in a  regulatory filing  as it announced second-quarter
results. The decline was driven by a $1.77 billion drop in net
unrealized gains in its $62.8 billion portfolio of fixed-maturity securities.  Fixed-income securities fell in the quarter after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled that some of the
central bank’s stimulus efforts could end in 2014. That halted a
rally in bond prices that was fueled by Fed efforts to stoke the
economy after the 2008 financial crisis. Insurers hold bonds to
back policyholder obligations and generate investment income.  Most property-casualty insurers have been keeping the
duration of their portfolios short “to minimize the impact
higher interest rates” have on portfolios, Barclays Plc
analysts led by  Jay Gelb  wrote in a note to clients this month.
“That said, if interest rates continue to rise sustainably
near-term, we would expect book value deterioration.”  Travelers was the worst performer in the 30-company Dow,
falling 3.8 percent to $82.21, even as second quarter  net income 
climbed 85 percent to $925 million from a year ago and profit
beat analysts’ estimates. Margins improved after the insurer
charged some customers more for coverage and paid out less in
claims for the natural disasters. The company also benefited
from a legal settlement and resolution of a tax matter.  Municipal Bonds  “The impact of higher interest rates more than offset the
very positive impact on book value per share of our strong
earnings,” Chief Financial Officer Jay Benet said on a
conference call.  Travelers’ portfolio of municipal bonds showed the biggest
absolute decline in value in the quarter, followed by
investments in corporate debt. The obligations of U.S. states
and cities dropped about 3.3 percent in the three months ended
June 30, the worst performance since 2010, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. Corporate bonds slipped 3.4 percent
in the period, the data show.  “The rise in interest rates does have a positive side,”
Benet said. “Going forward, if interest rates stay at their
current levels, we’d be able to reinvest proceeds from maturing
bonds at higher yields than we were previously assuming.”  Unrealized Gains  The unrealized gains are monitored by  investors  and
analysts as a sign of financial strength and don’t count toward
earnings. Insurers often hold bonds to maturity, meaning they
may not realize gains or losses tied to interest rate
fluctuations. That contrasts with the treatment of bonds that
are written down when a borrower’s creditworthiness
deteriorates.  The rise in interest rates has not been significant enough
to impact the insurer’s pricing strategy, Benet said. Policy
sales fell by less than 1 percent to $5.82 billion in the
quarter as price increases hurt the premiums it collected in its
personal insurance business. Its commercial insurance divisions
fared better as rate increases helped boost sales.  Travelers is seen as a bellwether for U.S. property-casualty insurers, because it reports before many competitors
and sells coverage nationally. The insurer’s commentary about
pricing may cause investors to question whether more increases
are sustainable industrywide, Josh Stirling, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. wrote in a note today.  ‘Modest Deceleration’  “The company’s guidance this quarter is that margins will
continue to expand in most of their businesses as we work
through the year,” Stirling said. “However, in the quarter,
the data appears to show a modest deceleration.”  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the largest U.S.
commercial insurer, fell 1.8 percent. W.R. Berkley Corp. slumped
4.3 percent and Chubb Corp., the insurer of high-end homes and
corporate boards, declined 2.8 percent.  Travelers said it plans to give notice to about 450
employees this week that their positions are being eliminated.
The insurer is also cutting jobs through attrition, after its
personal auto business lost sales amid price competition with
other insurers. The plan will be fully implemented by 2015 and
lead to $140 million in savings, the filing showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  