-- Trayvon Martin’s Father to Speak to Congressional Caucus
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-07-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/trayvon-martin-s-father-to-speak-to-congressional-caucus.html
Tracy Martin, the father of slain
 Florida  teenager Trayvon Martin, is scheduled to speak today at
the first hearing of the U.S. Congressional Caucus on Black Men
and Boys.  Martin plans to deliver opening remarks, according to the
office of District of Columbia Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton.  Martin’s son, Trayvon, was shot in February 2012 in
Sanford, Florida, by George Zimmerman, who followed him and
reported to police that the teenager was acting suspiciously.
Martin, 17, was returning home from a convenience store.  Zimmerman, who was legally carrying a firearm, told police
that when he got out of his truck he was confronted and punched
by Martin, and shot him in self defense. He was acquitted of a
second-degree murder charge July 13.  “Although not timed with the conclusion of the Trayvon
Martin trial, the Black Men and Boys Caucus inaugural hearing is
right on time,” Norton said in a statement. “Our nation and
our African American community need to bring our black men and
boys to center stage.”  In reaction to the case, President  Barack Obama  said last
week that “Trayvon Martin could have been me” and that the
nation needs to do some “soul searching” on race and violence.  Obama said the shooting death of Martin by Zimmerman
provoked “a lot of pain” among blacks because it reminded many
that they often are the targets of suspicion and are vulnerable
to violence.  “The African-American community is looking at this issue
through a set of experiences and a -- and a history that -- that
doesn’t go away,” the president said July 19 at the White
House. “There are very few African-American men in this country
who haven’t had the experience of being followed when they were
shopping in a department store. That includes me.”  The newly formed congressional group is led by Norton and
Representative Danny Davis, an Illinois Democrat.  In a statement, Norton said she spoke with the Martins’
family attorney,  Benjamin Crump , who confirmed Martin will
attend and offer remarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  