-- Rdio to Offer Music Streaming With Promoter Live Nation
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-07-23T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/rdio-to-offer-music-streaming-with-promoter-live-nation.html
Rdio Inc., the music-streaming
service started by billionaire Skype co-founder  Janus Friis ,
will supply songs on the website of concert promoter  Live Nation
Entertainment Inc. (LYV) , gaining a source for potential users.  People shopping for tickets at LiveNation.com will be able
to register for Rdio and listen to tracks on the site, Rdio
Chief Executive Officer Drew Larner said in an interview. Those
who don’t register will be limited to 30-second samples, he
said. A start date hasn’t been announced.  The agreement with Live Nation, the world’s biggest concert
promoter, exposes Rdio’s free service to music’s biggest fans,
with a goal of making them to paying  subscribers , Larner said.
Rdio will sponsor events organized by Live Nation, he said. Rdio
is signing up users through similar partnerships with Facebook
Inc. and other social-media sites, Larner said. He declined to
give specifics on user counts.  “Marrying what we do with streaming and discovery, and
promoting artists with live music, is a natural fit,” said
Larner, who plans to step aside as CEO after hiring a
replacement. “A streaming service like Rdio and live concerts
can be a virtuous circle.”  Rdio, based in  New York , will sponsor Live Nation’s country
music festivals  Faster Horses  and  Watershed , as well as the pop-themed  Sasquatch Festival , Larner said. Closely held Rdio will
set up booths at the events, offering free phone-charging
centers and other promotions, he said.  “To reach mass market, we need to attract people who are
buying CDs and MP3s,” Larner said. “This is part of a
multiprong strategy to raise awareness.”  Live Nation, based in Beverly, Hills,  California , fell 0.2
percent to $16.43 yesterday in New York. The  stock  has climbed
76 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  