-- REC Slides as Citi Warns Spin Off Plan Faces Hurdles: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-07-23T10:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/rec-slides-as-citi-warns-spin-off-plan-faces-hurdles-oslo-mover.html
Renewable Energy Corp ASA (REC) , the
Norwegian polysilicon maker, declined in Oslo as Citigroup Inc.
said the group’s plan to spin off its wafer, cell and solar
panel unit is unlikely to get the bondholder support it needs.  Shares in REC, based in Sandvika near Oslo, fell as much as
2.8 percent to  2.95 kroner , and traded 2.4 percent lower as of
12:15 p.m. in the Norwegian capital. That makes REC the  second-biggest loser  on the OSEBX index of 54 most-traded stocks.  REC, which has been battling falling prices amid industry
overcapacity, said on July 18 that it plans to spin off its
solar unit in a deal that values the business at 800 million
kroner ($135 million). By separating its solar and silicon units
into separate companies, REC plans to make it easier for the
businesses to attract funds and improve profitability, it said.  With  China  planning to introduce tariffs on polysilicon
imports to protect domestic producers, it’s unlikely that REC
bondholders will be willing to spin off the solar unit, Citi
analysts Jason Channell and Phuc Nguyen said in a note today.  To support the sale would leave the parent group “with a
potentially unprofitable poly business” that may be unable to
repay debtors, they wrote. “Since consent from bondholders is a
requirement for the spin-off to go ahead, we consider the
chances of this occurring are dramatically reduced.”  China, the world’s biggest solar-module maker, plans to
impose tariffs of as much as 57 percent on polysilicon shipped
from the U.S. and South Korea, saying it wants to stop the
product from being sold below cost.  Price Plunge  The U.S. units of REC are among companies to receive the
highest rate of tariff, due to come into effect from July 24.  The decision, announced after REC reported its second
quarter results on July 18, marks the preliminary ruling of a
probe opened last year. The investigation is a response to a
U.S. decision in 2012 to impose tariffs of as much as 250
percent on Chinese solar panels after a plunge in prices led to
the bankruptcy of manufacturers such as Solyndra LLC, which was
based in Fremont,  California .  The introduction of import tariffs by China may make it
more difficult for REC to refinance debt due next year, Citi’s
Channell and Nguyen wrote. That isn’t yet fully reflected in
REC’s share price, which has “only retreated to its pre-results
level,” they said. The investment bank downgraded its  rating  on
REC to sell from neutral, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo on  at
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  