-- Record Unilever Bearish Bets Signal Stock Drop: Corporate India
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y ,   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-07-23T04:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/record-unilever-bearish-bets-signal-stock-drop-corporate-india.html
Bearish options bets on Hindustan
Unilever Ltd. have climbed to an all-time high after the stock’s
surge to a record valuation surpassed even the most optimistic
analyst forecasts.  The number of outstanding options giving the right to sell
Hindustan Unilever versus those to buy rose to  1.86-to-1 (HUVR)  on July
17, the highest level since Bloomberg began compiling the data
in 2001. The maker of Dove soaps and Lipton tea is valued at 41
times  estimated  profit after a 20 percent rally this month sent
the shares to 702 rupees, exceeding the price targets of all 33
analysts tracked by Bloomberg and topping the mean estimate by
the most ever.  The rally has surprised analysts and investors who sold
about 320 million shares for 600 rupees each on July 4 to
Unilever, the London- and Rotterdam-based parent of India’s
biggest consumer goods producer. While Macquarie Securities
India Pvt. says Hindustan Unilever is benefiting from a rural
spending boost during the monsoon season and increased investor
demand for consumer companies, Quant First Asset Advisors  India 
Ltd. says the shares are overvalued after climbing to a record
premium versus the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index.  “I expect the stock to fall from these levels in the
medium to long-term range,” Supreeth S.M., the chief executive
officer at Quant First in Bangalore, which manages about $100
million in options, said in an e-mail interview on July 18. “I
would advise investors to start booking profits.”  Earnings Outlook  Hindustan Unilever rose 0.7 percent at 10:09 a.m., bound
for a record close, while the Sensex climbed 0.8 percent. The
Mumbai-based company’s forward price-earnings ratio is the most
 expensive  in the Sensex gauge is almost three times the average
multiple of 14 for the measure’s 30 stocks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Unilever, the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods maker,
made a public offer in April to increase its stake in Hindustan
Unilever to 75 percent from about 52 percent. The parent company
said on July 4 that it bought about 192 billion rupees ($3.2
billion) of shares, increasing its stake to 67 percent.  Hindustan Unilever will probably report a first-quarter net
income of 8.7 billion rupees on July 26, according to the median
of 30 analyst estimates compiled by  Bloomberg News . That
compares with a net income of 13.3 billion rupees a year ago,
which included a one-time gain from sale of property.  Dove Shampoo  India’s slowest economic expansion in a decade may curb
demand for Unilever’s premium products, including Dove shampoo
and Pears bath soap, said Naveen Vyas, an analyst with Microsec
Capital Ltd. who  predicted  in January that the shares would
rally to 676 rupees, the highest price target among analysts
tracked by Bloomberg.  Gross domestic product in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy
expanded 5 percent in the year ended March, the weakest pace
since 2003. Industrial output unexpectedly declined in May,
while car sales dropped for eight straight months through June.  “This is the time to liquidate holdings,” Vyas said in a
July 19 phone interview from Kolkata.  The number of Hindustan Unilever  puts outstanding  has
surged about eight-fold during the past three months to 15,326
as of July 19, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares
with a five-fold increase to 9,556 for call open interest.  Rural Spending  Puts with an exercise level 10 percent below Hindustan
Unilever’s share price cost 12.6 points more than calls betting
on a 10 percent gain, according to one-month data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with an average level of 3.6 points for
the price relationship known as skew.  Prasad Pradhan, a spokesman for Hindustan Unilever in
 Mumbai , didn’t reply to e-mail and voice messages seeking
comment.  Long-term investors should hold on to Hindustan Unilever
shares as rural consumers increase spending, according to Amit Mishra, an analyst at Macquarie Securities India in Mumbai.  Rainfall during the monsoon season, which began June 1 and
contributes more than 70 percent of India’s annual showers, is
the highest for this time of year since 2001, according to the
weather bureau. Agriculture accounts for about 20 percent of the
nation’s economy and 55 percent of the cropland doesn’t have
access to irrigation, according to the farm ministry.  Overbought Zone  “With a good monsoon we expect some buoyancy in rural
demand in the second half,” Mishra said yesterday in a phone
interview.  Hindustan Unilever’s stock is overbought and investors
should consider selling  call options , a trade that benefits from
declines in the shares,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  wrote in a July 18
report.  The stock’s 14-day relative strength index climbed to 86.8
on July 18, the highest level in almost three years and above
the threshold of 70 that signals to technical analysts that the
rally may end. The reading was 86.7 at the close yesterday.  Centrum Wealth Management Ltd., which sold Hindustan
Unilever shares in the market after the company’s March-quarter
earnings, said it has no plans buy back the stock after missing
out on this month’s gain.  The company’s price-to-earnings ratio “is highly
irrational” when compared to the broader Indian stock market,
Chokkalingam G, who oversees 1.4 billion rupees as Centrum
Wealth’s chief investment officer, said by phone yesterday. “We
will stick to the valuations and not touch the stock.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  