-- Ringgit Gains Most in Two Weeks, Bonds Rise on U.S. Housing Data
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-07-23T02:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/ringgit-gains-most-in-two-weeks-bonds-rise-on-u-s-housing-data.html
Malaysia’s ringgit strengthened the
most in two weeks and bonds rose after a decline in U.S. home
sales eased concern the  Federal Reserve  will rein in monetary
stimulus that’s spurred inflows to  emerging markets .  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, fell for a third day after official
data showed sales of previously owned U.S. homes unexpectedly
dropped 1.2 percent in June. Malaysia’s central bank Governor
Zeti Akhtar Aziz said yesterday that while investment flows will
precipitate greater currency volatility, the nation will monitor
and cooperate with other Asian countries to maintain stability.  The ringgit led gains in Asia today, advancing 0.5 percent
to 3.1646 per dollar as of 9:58 a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , the
biggest increase since July 9, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, declined 43
basis points, or 0.43 percentage point, to 7.13 percent.  “Asian currencies are higher because of the broad dollar
weakness,” said  Nizam Idris , head of foreign-exchange strategy
at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Singapore. The ringgit is stronger as
investors who were holding the greenback are reversing those
positions, he said.  Malaysia’s domestic demand is “growing in the region of
between 6 percent and 8 percent in terms of consumption growth
investment activity,” Zeti told reporters in Kuala Lumpur
yesterday.  The yield on the government’s 3.48 percent notes due March
2023 decreased one basis point to 3.8 percent and has dropped
four basis points since July 17, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  