-- Robertson Says Google Built Better Culture Than Apple
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   B a u m g a e r t e l
-- 2013-07-23T14:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/robertson-says-google-built-better-culture-than-apple.html
Julian Robertson, whose Tiger
Management LLC was once one of the world’s largest hedge-fund
firms, said  Google Inc. (GOOG)  has established a better leadership
culture than  Apple (AAPL)  Inc. to ensure long-term success.  Steve Jobs, the deceased co-founder of Apple, “was a
maverick person and really couldn’t establish a great, long-term
entity,” Robertson said today in an interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene , Sara Eisen and Scarlet Fu. “I think
that the Google people have a better way of getting things done.”  Apple, once the biggest smartphone maker, has lost about 40
percent of its market value from the 2012 peak amid concern that
the pace of innovation is slowing at the maker of iPhones and
iPads since the death of its co-founder. Google’s Android
software, which it provides for free to handset makers, now
commands more than 70 percent of the smartphone market while the
iPhone has less than 20 percent.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  reorganized Apple last
year to encourage collaboration among units so that Macs,
iPhones and iPads work better together.  Robertson said while he has a “tremendous amount of
respect” for Jobs’s intellect, “he was just a very mercurial
guy.”  Google’s Challenge  Apple is undergoing slowing  revenue growth  and narrowing
margins amid accelerating mobile competition led by Samsung
Electronics Co. and other users of Google’s Android operating
system. Apple is working to release new products that can build
on the successes of the iPod music player, the iPhone handset
and the iPad tablet, which revolutionized their respective
industries.  Google, under CEO  Larry Page , has demonstrated an ability
to expand swiftly into new businesses, mainly mobile
advertising. Android is free to manufacturing partners, and
Google makes money from ads shown to users of the devices.  Google has  gained 25 percent  since Sept. 19, when Apple’s
market value peaked. It is up 80 percent since Oct. 5, 2011, the
day Jobs died, compared with a 12 percent return by Apple.  Robertson started New York-based Tiger Management in 1980,
and by mid-1998 assets had soared to about $22 billion on the
back of annual returns averaging 32 percent. Losses and investor
withdrawals over the following 18 months reduced Tiger’s assets
to about $6 billion and in 2000, Robertson announced he would
close the firm to outside investors. Since then he has
transformed it into a business financing startup hedge-fund
managers and runs a charitable foundation.  Government Probe  Robertson said the U.S. government’s probe of insider
trading on Wall Street won’t have a big impact on the industry
because hedge funds generally are very careful to adhere to the
rules.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission last week
accused Steven A. Cohen, the billionaire founder of SAC Capital
Advisors LP, of failure to supervise two employees facing
criminal charges of insider trading. If the administrative
proceeding against Cohen is successful, the SEC could force him
out of business without proving that Cohen himself engaged in
insider trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Baumgaertel in Boston at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  