-- Rubio Shift to Solidify Support Recalls Florida Tenure
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-07-23T00:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/rubio-shift-to-solidify-support-recalls-florida-tenure.html
Marco Rubio took office ready to
push for a big policy change. He won support in his chamber,
only to watch fellow Republicans on the other side of the
Capitol pick apart the measure.  That’s not just the story of the U.S. senator’s push to
rewrite the nation’s  immigration  laws, it was the recurring
theme of his two years as  Florida  House speaker.  While Rubio’s political achievements have landed him on the
cover of the  New York  Times Magazine, his policy record is less
accomplished. With the immigration bill facing long odds in the
U.S. House, Rubio, who said he’ll decide next year whether to
run for president in 2016, is pivoting to issues that could
solidify his standing with Republican voters.  “The jury is still out,” said U.S. Representative Dennis Ross, a Florida Republican who served in the state House with
Rubio, when asked about the senator’s legislative record.  Since the comprehensive immigration bill that he helped
write passed the Senate 68-32 last month, Rubio has shifted to
core Republican topics.  He’s crafting a bill to prohibit abortions after 20 weeks
of gestation, seeking support for a plan sponsored last year by
Utah Republican Senator Mike Lee to ban the procedure in
 Washington , D.C., said a Republican who requested anonymity
because he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Last week, Rubio introduced a bill to cap U.S. payments to
the  United Nations  and, from the Senate floor, urged lawmakers
not to fund President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care law.  “Anyone who votes for the short-term budget that funds
Obamacare is voting to move forward with Obamacare,” Rubio said
in the July 18  speech . “If you pay for it, you own it.”  Repair Standing  Rubio, 42, is seeking to repair his standing among
Republicans unhappy that he pushed to grant 11 million
undocumented immigrants in the U.S. an eventual path to
citizenship. He slipped to fifth in an Iowa poll of potential
2016 Republican presidential candidates, according to a July 11
survey from Raleigh, North Carolina-based Public Policy Polling.
Rubio was first in the same poll on Feb. 7.  Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican who also helped
craft the immigration measure, said the push for the measure was
a “campaign” that needed the backing of Rubio, the son of
Cuban immigrants.  “I fought for immigration reform, remember, and ran for
president and at least got the nomination of my party,” McCain,
who lost to Obama in 2008, said of his work on immigration
before that presidential race. “To think that this is some kind
of poison pill that he’s swallowing, it isn’t.”  14 Republicans  McCain credited Rubio with helping win bipartisan passage
of the Senate bill with support from 14 of the chamber’s 46
Republicans.  The biggest hurdle for the measure is a reluctant
Republican majority in the other chamber, a familiar obstacle
for Rubio.  When Rubio presided over the Florida House in 2007 and
2008, he was the first Cuban-American and the youngest person to
hold the post, at age 35. Republicans had lost seven seats when
he was in charge of their 2006 election effort, the party’s
worst showing since taking the chamber majority in 1996.  Even so, he was brimming with confidence. Rubio had just
published a 169-page book, “100 Innovative Ideas for Florida’s
Future,” that would serve as a road map for his agenda for the
next two years.  Each idea passed the Florida House, while the state Senate
approved only 24 and parts of 10 others, according to a 2010
analysis by PolitiFact, a  St. Petersburg , Florida-based fact-checking group.  School Vouchers  Ideas from the book that became law included scheduling
Florida’s presidential primary earlier in the year, increasing
tax credits for companies that pay for school vouchers and
expanding DNA collection to all felony offenders.  “He was full of ideas, but he needed the maturity that
comes with time and age,” state Representative Gayle Harrell, a
Port St. Lucie Republican who served with Rubio, said of his
struggles with the state Senate.  The signature issue in Rubio’s book was a plan to eliminate
property taxes and offset the losses with a state sales tax
increase.  In his 2012 autobiography, “An American Son,” Rubio
described the tax plan as “the boldest reform in our 100 Ideas
project.”  Although Rubio’s fellow Republicans controlled the Senate
and another occupied the governor’s office, he couldn’t gain
consensus on the issue.  Governor Crist  In his autobiography, Rubio wrote that he should have tried
sooner to find agreement. He maintained that he was
“shorthanded in the fight” when several members of his
leadership team left and that then-Governor  Charlie Crist , whom
Rubio would beat in the 2010 U.S. Senate race, “was working
with Senate Republicans to undermine us.”  “For better or worse, property tax reform would be my
legacy, and it was incomplete, to put it charitably,” Rubio
wrote.  In a special session, Rubio compromised on a tax plan with
the state Senate, only to have the Florida Supreme Court strike
the referendum from the ballot.  When lawmakers returned again in another special session,
Senate Republicans passed a smaller  tax cut  before Rubio could
find agreement on a new plan. The Senate sent it to the House
and adjourned.  “We had done our best, and fallen short,” Rubio wrote.
“I accepted the hard reality of our situation, and let the bill
pass.”  No Pressure  Supporters of the Senate’s immigration measure are
concerned that it won’t be enacted because of opposition from
many  House Republicans . Rubio has said he won’t pressure his
colleagues on the other side of the Capitol to fall in line.  “He believes the House should be given the time and space
to come up with their own immigration legislation,” Alex Conant, a Rubio spokesman, said in an e-mail. “He won’t be part
of any attempt to pressure them.”  A year after the Florida property tax flop on the last day
of the 2008 legislative session, Rubio’s last as speaker, he was
handed another all-or-nothing proposition from the Senate.  This time, the issue was a Senate bill requiring insurance
companies to cover children with autism. Rubio had backed a
House bill that would have required coverage for Down syndrome,
spina bifida and other disabilities. House Republicans urged him
to reject the Senate plan.  “I couldn’t do it,” Rubio wrote. “Helping some kids was
better than not helping any.”  U.S. Representative Dan Webster of  Orlando , the second-ranking Republican in the state Senate while Rubio was speaker,
said his Florida colleague has a record of taking on big issues,
the kind that can take years to turn into law and are easy to
criticize.  “Rubio dreamed big,” Webster said of Rubio’s two years as
Florida House speaker. “He’s exhibited courage to dream and say
some things that are difficult to deliver.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  