-- Russia Places Record 2 Trillion Rubles in Repo Auction
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-07-23T12:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/russia-places-record-2-trillion-rubles-in-repo-auction.html
Russia ’s central bank loaned a
record 2 trillion rubles ($62 billion) through one-week
repurchase agreements as it seeks to wean lenders off dependence
on overnight funding.  The regulator offered a record 2.32 trillion rubles at
today’s seven-day auction, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The funds were borrowed at an average weighted rate
of 5.52 percent, versus the 5.56 percent at today’s overnight
offering. Both auctions had a minimum rate of 5.5 percent.  Elvira Nabiullina, who took over as central bank chairman a
month ago, is looking for new ways to provide lenders with cash
after economic growth slowed below 2 percent. While policy
makers left their main lending rates unchanged in June for a
10th month, borrowing costs have tumbled since the meeting as
the central bank said it would offer 500 billion rubles backed
by non-marketable assets in an auction on July 29.  “As Bank Rossii has been offering more and more liquidity
with seven-day repos, banks have been flowing there,” Vladimir Miklashevsky, a trading desk strategist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in
Helsinki, said by e-mail. “It’s like in a restaurant: it’s
better to know how many customers will come in the next seven
days than guessing from day to day how many meals you’ll have to
serve.”  The cost to fix floating payments in rubles for a year
using  interest-rate swaps  has fallen 28 basis points, or 0.28
percentage point to 6.6 percent since July 11, the day before
the rates meeting. The three-month MosPrime rate, which large
Moscow-based banks say they charge one another, may drop 56
basis points during the next three months from 7 percent now,
according to forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg.
That’s the most since October 2009.  Floating Rate  The new facility backed by non-marketable assets will have
a floating rate tied to the one-week repo operations, with the
current minimum set at 5.75 percent. Bank Rossii hasn’t yet
determined how often it will hold the auctions, Nabiullina told
reporters in Moscow July 12.  The funding will displace cash offered by one-week
repurchase agreements and seeks to reduce the amount borrowed
via ruble swaps, Sergey Shvetsov, a deputy Bank Rossii chairman,
said at the same news conference. Policy makers don’t plan to
end overnight auctions this year, he said.  The central bank has been trying to “squeeze” lenders out
of reliance on the overnight facility since last year by
reducing the amounts offered, according to Yury Tulinov, an
analyst at OAO Gazprombank in Moscow. Banks may have borrowed
the record amount today ahead of next week’s first auction of
one-year funds, he said.  “The central bank made it fairly clear that the amount
offered through the new instrument would come at the expense of
one-week repo volumes,” Tulinov said. “Because of that, banks
were probably spooked that next week the one-week limit would be
reduced, and so they tried to take the whole amount offered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  