-- Ryanair Tells U.K. It Plans Aer Lingus Sale to EU Carrier
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   N i c o l e   M o r t i m e r
-- 2013-07-23T09:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/ryanair-tells-u-k-it-would-sell-aer-lingus-stake-to-eu-carrier.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  said it would
be prepared to sell its 29.8 percent stake in Irish competitor
 Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  to another European Union airline that
makes an offer acceptable to the majority of shareholders.  Ryanair,  Europe ’s biggest discount carrier, said today it
gave the undertaking to the U.K. Competition Commission in order
to dispel the antitrust regulator’s concerns that the stake
might prevent Aer Lingus from being taken over.  “This remedy unconditionally removes any ability by
Ryanair to block any future takeover of Aer Lingus by another
European Union airline,” Ryanair said in a statement.  The U.K. watchdog is due to issue a decision on Sept. 5 as
to whether the stake allows Dublin-based Ryanair to “influence
the commercial policy and strategy” of Aer Lingus. The discount
carrier may be able to delay its enforcement for years while
challenging an EU decision to block a full takeover offer that
valued Aer Lingus at 694 million euros ($915 million).  Aer Lingus stock  traded little changed at 1.66 euros as of
10:18 a.m. local time, valuing the company at 880 million euros
following a 50 percent gain so far this year.  Ryanair was priced 2.5 percent lower at 7.07 euros, giving
it a market capitalization of 10 billion euros.  The U.K. Competition Commission said it remains in remedies
discussions with Ryanair and is aware of the carrier’s comments,
which will be evaluated in reaching a final decision.  “We will take all of the responses that we’ve had into
consideration,” spokesman Rory Taylor said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Mortimer in London at 
 nmortimer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  