-- San Francisco Cyclist Pleads Guilty to Manslaughter
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-07-23T21:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/san-francisco-cyclist-pleads-guilty-to-manslaughter.html
San Francisco  bicyclist Christopher
Bucchere pleaded guilty to felony vehicular manslaughter for
striking and killing a 71-year-old man last year and will avoid
jail time, the local district attorney said.  The conviction is the first of its kind in the nation
involving a cyclist, San Francisco District Attorney George
Gascon said in an e-mailed statement. Bucchere, 37, a Stanford
University-educated technology consultant who once rode for the
school’s cycling team, will be sentenced to 1,000 hours of
community service and three years’ probation, Gascon said.  “With the conditions of this plea, the defendant will be
held accountable for the tragic death of Sutchi Hui and will
have an opportunity for redemption,” said Gascon. “We hope
this case continues to serve as a reminder that blatant
disregard of the traffic laws can have dire consequences.”  While Bucchere had no prior record of bicycling or car
accidents, Gascon said in March that the crash was a result of
the cyclist’s “need for speed” while attempting to beat his
own record and bragging about it. Assistant  District Attorney 
Omid Talai said at a court hearing in March that the cyclist was
“extremely reckless” and wrote a social media post the day of
the collision dedicated to his helmet.  Bucchere is scheduled for sentencing Aug. 16. A judge can
determine in six months whether the conviction can be reduced to
a misdemeanor, Gascon said.  Red Lights  Evidence presented at a March court hearing in the city’s
case against Bucchere showed he was going 32 miles-an-hour in a
25-mile-an-hour zone and ran three red lights before striking
and killing Hui, who was in a pedestrian crosswalk on Market
Street in San Francisco’s Castro district at 8 a.m. with his
wife en route to a medical appointment.  Bucchere, a lifelong cyclist who trains others in bike
safety, was completing a two-hour ride to Marin County with a
friend, following a course taken by members of a local cycling
club, when he hit Hui on March 29, 2012.  Strava Inc., a website for cyclists that logs athletes’
data from wireless devices, recorded Bucchere going 32 miles an
hour at the time of the crash, prosecutors said.  ‘Severely Limited’  Ted Cassman, Bucchere’s attorney, in March denied his
client ran lights and said the Strava data was inaccurate. Hui
entered the crosswalk before the pedestrian “walk” light went
on and other pedestrians who crossed early “severely limited”
Bucchere’s ability to avoid the accident, Cassman said in court
filings.  Cassman declined to comment on the plea.  Another San Francisco cyclist, Randolph Ang, pleaded guilty
last year to misdemeanor vehicular manslaughter for hitting
Dionette Cherney, who died about a month after the crash from
her injuries, Gascon said in March 2012.  Ang was riding on Embarcadero and Mission when he ran a red
light and collided with Cherney. Ang received 500 hours of
community service and three years’ probation.  The case is California v. Bucchere, 12015554, California
Superior Court, San Francisco County (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  