-- Saudi Aramco’s Oil Push to Raise Rig Count to Record
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-07-23T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/saudi-aramco-s-oil-push-to-raise-rig-count-to-record.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s
largest crude exporter, is set to add more drilling rigs than
expected this year and hire more in 2014 as new fields are
drilled to counter dwindling output from aging deposits.  The state-owned company, known as  Saudi Aramco , will use a
record 170 rigs by the end of 2013, according to estimates from
 Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  and  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  That exceeds the total
number forecast by the oil-service companies earlier this year.  The expansion in rigs reflects the increasing difficulty of
extracting crude from mature fields. To maintain output, Aramco
is now drilling new deposits such as Manifa, while expanding
projects including Khurais and Shaybah to ensure there’s enough
spare capacity to counter any disruptions in global supply.  Aramco will use 170 rigs by end of this year or early 2014,
Schlumberger Chief Executive Officer Paal Kibsgaard said July 19
on a conference call. That’s more than the 160 he estimated in
January. Houston-based Schlumberger, the largest oil-services
provider, has rigs on land and offshore in  Saudi Arabia .
Halliburton, which operates at Manifa, said in May it also
expects Saudi Arabia to have 170 rigs by the end of this year.  Aramco is adding wells to maintain output capacity at 12
million barrels a day while protecting the 1.5 million-barrel-a-day buffer of spare production, the biggest surplus among
nations in the 12-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. Saudi Arabia pumped 9.47 million barrels a day in
June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Drilling Challenge  Aramco used only 60 rigs a decade ago to produce the same
volume, which shows there’s no more “easy oil” from Saudi
fields, Nansen Saleri, CEO of Houston-based consulting firm
Quantum Reservoir Impact, said in June. If the company employed
more advanced drilling methods it could boost Saudi production
capacity to 15 million barrels a day, according to Saleri, a
former head of reservoir management at Aramco.  The oil producer will raise its rig count to 200 next year,
according to estimates from  Husseini Energy , a Saudi consulting
firm in Dhahran founded by Aramco’s former Executive Vice
President for Exploration and Development Sadad al-Husseini.  “This is necessary if they are to support both the oil and
gas production by completing Manifa, upgrading offshore
capacity, and expanding Khurais and Shaybah,” al-Husseini said.  Aramco plans to increase output capacity at the Khurais
field to 1.5 million barrels a day by 2017 from 1.2 million now,
while boosting the Shaybah field to 1 million barrels a day from
750,000 barrels, CEO Khalid Al-Falih said in May.  Aramco declined to comment on the rig forecasts when
contacted yesterday.  Offshore Gas  The increase in rigs will also help the country find new
deposits and pump more hydrocarbons offshore, al-Husseini said.
Aramco plans to raise gas output in the  Red Sea  and  Persian Gulf 
to reduce domestic use of crude oil and retain more for export.
It will also drill seven wells to test shale-gas deposits in the
northwest this year, Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  said in March.  Halliburton and Schlumberger both operate Saudi research
centers to develop technology to help the country unlock its
unconventional hydrocarbon resources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  