-- SEC Schedules Cohen’s Administrative Hearing for August 26
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-07-23T22:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/sec-schedules-cohen-s-administrative-hearing-for-august-26.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s chief administrative law judge will hold a hearing
next month into whether billionaire hedge-fund manager  Steven A. Cohen  should be barred from managing other people’s money.  Brenda P. Murray, who has been an administrative judge at
the SEC’s Washington headquarters for 25 years, is scheduled to
preside over the hearing on August 26 at 9:30 a.m., according to
an order filed in the administrative court today.  The SEC accused Cohen on July 19 of failing to supervise
two employees who face criminal charges that they illegally
traded stocks based on confidential information. The regulator
is seeking to bar Cohen, the founder of  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC Capital Advisors LP, from overseeing investor funds.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, said last week
that the SEC’s action has “no merit” and that Cohen will fight
the claims.  Murray has been an administrative law judge since 1975,
first with the Interstate Commerce Commission and then with the
 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission . She has been at the SEC
since 1988, according to the SEC news release announcing her
appointment.  High-Profile Cases  During her tenure, Murray has presided over several high-profile matters and has found in favor of and against the SEC.  In 2011, she rejected the SEC’s claims that two employees
of  State Street Corp. (STT)  misled investors as housing prices
plummeted in 2007. State Street agreed to repay investors more
than $300 million to resolve the case.  Murray also drew attention when she rejected a
recommendation from then-inspector general H.  David Kotz  that
certain SEC officials be disciplined for their handling of an
insider-trading investigation involving Pequot Capital
Management.  Former SEC investigator  Gary Aguirre  complained that he was
fired after supervisors blocked his probe of Pequot and its ties
to  John Mack , the former chief executive officer of  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)  Following Kotz’s report, the insider-trading
investigation was rekindled, leading to a $28 million settlement
with Pequot. Aguirre was awarded $755,000 to resolve his claims
that he was a victim of whistleblower retaliation.  In her free time, Murray works to educate women in prison.
In 2009, in an online video for an award sponsored by L’Oreal
Paris, she said “people make mistakes, and people need a chance
to redeem themselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  