-- SEC Star Witness Says Tourre Misled Her on Paulson’s Role
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-07-23T19:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/sec-star-witness-says-tourre-misled-her-on-paulson-s-role.html
The star witness in the Securities
and Exchange Commission’s civil fraud case against Fabrice Tourre told jurors that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. misled her into 
helping construct a doomed investment that the Paulson & Co. 
hedge fund was betting would fail.  Laura Schwartz, who headed ACA Management LLC’s asset
management business in early 2007, testified today that Goldman
and Paulson, which is run by billionaire  John Paulson , led her
to believe that the hedge fund wanted to invest, rather than
take a short position, in a mortgage-backed security that lost
$1 billion in the crash of the credit markets.  “Our understanding was that Paulson was the equity
investor,” Schwartz said in federal court in  Manhattan .  That statement, the SEC claims, persuaded ACA to lend its
prestige to the deal and to make a disastrous bet that the
mortgage-backed securities underlying the investment would
perform well. Paulson, which helped ACA pick the securities, was
secretly betting they would fail, the SEC says.  Goldman Sachs and Paulson never corrected ACA’s
misimpression through e-mails, phone conversations and meetings,
including a chance encounter between Schwartz and a top Paulson
executive in a Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , hotel bar, she said.  Schwartz’s testimony comes just before Tourre, who has sat
silent through more than a week of trial, is scheduled to
testify in his own defense.  Schwartz testified that a Jan. 8, 2007, meeting at
Paulson’s Manhattan offices was part of a “beauty pageant” to
select a third-party agent to pick the residential mortgage-backed securities underlying the Goldman Sachs investment, a
synthetic collateralized debt obligation called Abacus 2007-AC1.  Paulson’s Role  She believed from discussions with Goldman Sachs that
Paulson was acting as sponsor of Abacus and was investing in its
equity, she said.  ACA’s former chief executive officer, Alan Roseman,
testified yesterday that Paulson’s long position was
“critical” to ACA’s participation in Abacus. The SEC claims
Tourre and Paulson misled ACA, believing the firm’s presence on
the transaction would lend Abacus credibility and attract
investors.  Paulson hasn’t been charged with any wrongdoing in
connection with the Abacus deal.  An SEC lawyer last week played a recorded Jan. 17, 2007,
telephone call in which Gail Kreitman, a Goldman Sachs
saleswoman, told Lucas Westreich, who worked with Schwartz, that
New York-based Goldman Sachs planned to place “a hundred
percent of the equity” in the transaction with Paulson.  Information Source  Kreitman, who said she worked with Schwartz at Merrill
Lynch before moving to Goldman Sachs, testified she can’t
remember who told her Paulson intended to invest in the equity
stake. She said she got most of her information on the deal from
Tourre.  Schwartz said Goldman Sachs sent her a draft term sheet for
the deal, which said that the equity tranche was “pre-committed” to Paulson. The SEC claims that Paulson, which made
$15 billion making massive short bets against the residential
mortgage market in 2006 and 2007, never considered investing in
the equity, or “first-loss” tranche.  Schwartz also said that Tourre failed to correct an e-mail
she sent referring to “Paulson’s equity perspective” on the
deal.  And she testified about running into Paolo Pellegrini, the
Paulson executive, in  Jackson Hole , where she was attending a
dinner for managers of collateralized debt obligations. Over
drinks in a hotel bar they discussed the Abacus transaction,
Schwartz said.  Pellegrini didn’t disclose that the hedge fund was shorting
the portfolio that it was helping ACA assemble, she said.  Pellegrini, who testified earlier in the trial, said he
believed ACA knew that Paulson was taking a short position on
Abacus.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 