-- HSH Nordbank ‘Dr. No’ CEO Faces Trial Over Financial Crisis
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-07-24T15:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/hsh-nordbank-s-dr-no-ceo-faces-first-german-trial-over-crisis.html
With a former  HSH Nordbank  AG
executive nicknamed “Dr. No” and a collateralized-debt
obligation transaction called Omega 55, the first German
criminal trial over the financial crisis could be the backdrop
for a James Bond thriller.  Dirk Jens Nonnenmacher, the 50-year-old ex-chief executive
officer given the nickname by the media because of his Ph.D., is
one of six former HSH Nordbank management board members who went
on trial in Hamburg today. Another former CEO, Hans Berger, is
also a defendant.  All six ex-board members were charged with breach of trust
and two of them with false accounting over the Omega 55
transaction, the 2007 CDO package that prosecutors said led to
160 million euros ($211 million) in losses. At the height of the
financial crisis in 2009, the Hamburg-based lender was bailed
out with 30 billion euros in aid from German state and federal
governments.  “The defendants didn’t live up to their duty to act as
diligent businessmen when deciding whether to authorize the
transaction,” prosecutor Karsten Wegerich told the court.
“They took chances on incalculable risks of a highly
speculative CDO.”  Prosecutors throughout  Germany  have investigated lenders
that faltered during the financial crisis. While charges have
also been brought against former managers at  Bayerische
Landesbank , SachsenLB and Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, none of
them has gone to trial yet.  German Landesbanken  Most of the troubled lenders are Landesbanken, which are
owned by German states and savings banks. The Landesbanken
received a combined 97.3 billion euros in state aid and
guarantees during the global financial crisis, according to
company and Bloomberg data.  Nonnenmacher, who was ousted as CEO in 2011 over his role
in an unrelated spying scandal, and Berger deny the allegations.  Nonnenmacher didn’t commit any crimes, his attorney, Heinz
Wagner, said in a phone interview this week. Berger, who
resigned over the bank troubles, will fight the allegation, his
attorney Otmar Kury said.  HSH Nordbank will follow the criminal case with “great
attention,” spokesman Rune Hoffmann said in an interview.  After the charges were read out, Norbert Gatzweiler, a
lawyer for defendant Peter Rieck, said the case was assigned to
the wrong panel and an alternate judge was arbitrarily selected.
Earlier this year, defense lawyers in the Cologne criminal trial
of former managers at Sal. Oppenheim Jr. & Cie. halted the case
for three months with a similar motion.  BNP Paribas  The former bank managers approved the deal with  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP)  at the end of 2007, during the first months of the financial
crisis. Under the 2.4 billion-euro transaction, HSH Nordbank was
able to transfer risky loans to a special purpose vehicle called
Omega 55.  Presiding Judge Marc Tully said he and his colleagues
allowed the case to go to trial because a preliminary assessment
of the case indicated the defendants may have wrongfully
approved the deal. The court found that the damage may be “way
lower” than the 160 million euros claimed by prosecutors,
because the transactions need to be judged based on the
perspective of December 2007, not on today’s knowledge, he said.  ‘Lucky Twist’  “We cannot demand that the defendants should have known in
2007 how the financial crisis would evolve and how it would
affect the value of the CDO,” Tully said. “It doesn’t matter
whether a lucky twist turned it positive or an unlucky one
negative in the end. What counts is how the risks needed to be
gauged in 2007.”  Gatzweiler asked all judges to disclose whether they lost
money with similar instruments during the crisis or whether they
have relatives at BNP Paribas, law firms involved in the case or
at the Bundesbank and German financial regulator Bafin, all
actors in the financial crisis. The information is needed to
determine whether judges should be removed for bias, he said.  Tully said that information would be disclosed in writing
if deemed necessary. Judges won’t answer questions at a hearing,
he said.  “Believe me, when I received the indictment, I checked
every reason possible under the law to rule that I cannot hear
that case,” Tully said. “Whenever I get such a huge case I’m
asking myself: Why me and not one of the other 900 judges in
Hamburg?”  606 Pages  The indictment has 606 pages and the files about 130,000
pages. In the German criminal system, judges hearing the case
have to go through all the documents.  While the Omega 55 deal was designed to allow the lender to
lower its capital needs and to stabilize its  credit rating ,
steps deemed crucial for a planned public offering, the plan
didn’t work out, according to prosecutor Wegerich. In turn, the
bank assumed liability under  credit derivatives  that later led
to the losses. A few months later, HSH Nordbank even had to
retake the risks shifted to the Omega 55 vehicle.  The board members approved the deal after relying on a memo
that didn’t fully inform them about the risks so that they
couldn’t adequately balance the pros and cons, Wegerich said.
The board should have seen that they didn’t have all the
necessary facts to understand it instead of green-lighting the
proposal. From no point of view was the deal reasonable and the
executives shouldn’t have approved it, said the prosecutor.  Financial Crisis  If the prosecutors’ claims are correct, the Omega 55
transaction “may not have been in the epicenter of the kind of
deals causing the financial crisis, but it was certainly driven
by the crisis’s pressures,” said Christian Schroeder, a law
professor at Halle University. “The use of special-purpose
vehicles, the aim to make the balance sheet look a bit better,
these are familiar features in the story of the crisis.”  The CDO package is one of several deals that led to the
bank’s troubles, and HSH Nordbank has also sued lenders in U.S.
courts over residential mortgage-backed securities.  The German states of Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein,
majority owners of HSH Nordbank, were forced to bail out the
bank in 2009. They provided the lender, based in Hamburg and
Kiel, with 3 billion euros in capital and 10 billion euros in
guarantees to cover potential losses. HSH also tapped the
federal government’s  Soffin  bank-rescue fund for 17 billion
euros in guarantees.  While more trials over the financial crisis may follow,
they won’t fix bugs in the system, law professor Schroeder said.  “You cannot regulate business action with the help of the
criminal law,” he said. “What’s really needed to prevent
problems like this is adequate regulation. Unfortunately, that’s
exactly what’s missing. In 20 years of European Union market
regulation, we’ve only seen one crisis following the other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Hamburg via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 