-- Singapore Exchange 4Q Net Income Climbs 43% on Futures
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-07-23T10:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/singapore-exchange-4q-net-income-climbs-43-on-futures.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , operator of
Southeast  Asia ’s biggest stock market, said fiscal fourth-quarter profit rose 43 percent as trading of derivative
contracts climbed to a record and stock volumes rebounded.  Net income increased to S$87.6 million ($69.2 million) in
the three months ended June 30, compared with S$61.1 million a
year ago, the company said in a statement today. That’s lower
than the S$92 million average  estimate  by six analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “This is our best performance since fiscal year 2008,”
Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  said in the statement.
“Our continuing investments in new products and wider
distribution enabled us to benefit from increased market
activities.”  Average daily derivative transactions jumped 77 percent to
556,728  contracts  in June, a new monthly record, according to
the SGX. Renewed interest in Japanese shares made the bourse the
No. 1 venue for trading Nikkei 225 Stock Average futures.  Operating revenue increased 28 percent to S$202.3 million
from a year earlier, the SGX said. Contributions from equities
trading rose 40 percent, while those for derivatives climbed 35
percent, it said.  More than 4.5 million Nikkei 225 futures traded in
Singapore in June, compared with 3.6 million Nikkei 225 futures
in  Osaka  and 1.6 million in  Chicago , according to data from the
three bourse operators compiled by Bloomberg. The Japanese
bourse has kept a bigger share of the mini Nikkei 225 futures,
whose contract size is about five times smaller than those
offered in Singapore and Chicago, based on the data.  Japan Rally  The derivatives business benefited from a rally in Japanese
equities from last November, SGX Chief Financial Officer Chng
Lay Chew said in April. Japanese index futures contracts have
become Singapore’s most actively traded, as Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s reforms have spurred equities.  Japan ’s broader
 Topix index  capped its biggest rally over three quarters in more
than 30 years on June 30.  The average daily value of stocks traded on the SGX
increased 45 percent to S$1.6 billion in the April-June quarter
from a year earlier, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Singapore’s benchmark Straits Times Index fell 4.8 percent in
the three months to June 30 on concern the  Federal Reserve  will
soon taper monetary stimulus.  Companies raised about S$1.9 billion from initial public
offerings in Singapore during the quarter, compared with S$36.1
million a year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Real estate and business trusts were the biggest fundraisers in
the city in the past year, accounting for $4.6 billion of the
$5.3 billion, the data show.  Shopping mall trusts owned by Singapore Press Holdings Ltd.
and Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. are both set to list this
week.  “The need for capital raising and risk management remains
robust in Asia despite uncertain global economic conditions,”
the SGX said in the statement. “We will continue to develop new
products and services, and strengthen our regulatory and risk
management capabilities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  