-- Slim Leads Olympics Sponsors as Vale Balks at Price Tag
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-07-23T17:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/slim-leading-olympics-sponsors-as-vale-balks-corporate-brazil.html
Companies from Vale SA to Petroleo
Brasileiro SA are balking at sponsorships for the 2016 Olympics
in  Rio de Janeiro  that cost three times as much as previous
games, boosting the chances organizers will ask the government
to help foot the bill, people familiar with talks say.  While the Rio 2016 local organizing committee led by Carlos
Nuzman met its original sponsorship target of 1 billion reais,
the goal is being revised as costs rise and may reach 2.6
billion reais ($1.16 billion), said an official who asked not to
be identified because the new figures aren’t public. In 2009,
three years before  London  staged the games, the committee raised
at least 80 percent of its final 700 million-pound ($1.1
billion) goal, the London Evening Standard  reported  at the time.  After a strong start led by Mexican billionaire  Carlos
Slim ’s  America Movil  SAB and Banco Bradesco SA, sponsorships
have dropped off as focus shifts to soccer’s 2014  World Cup .
State-run oil producer Petrobras ended preliminary talks this
year because it didn’t want to spend 400 million reais in a
weakening economy, and Vale was put off after being asked for
200 million reais, said three people who asked not to be named
because the talks are private.  ‘Triumphant Announcements’  “There were some very triumphant announcements early on
and we thought Rio is going to rewrite records and they’re
obviously going to have a successful games,” said Tim Crow,
chief executive officer of London-based sponsorship consultant
Synergy, which has worked on Olympic programs for two decades.
“But since then there’s been a deafening silence.”  Petrobras declined to confirm or deny the talks in an e-mailed statement. Vale, which like Petrobras is also based in
Rio de Janeiro, said in a statement that Rio 2016 asked the
company to present an Olympic project and that it has yet to
make a decision.  Petrobras shares rose 1.2 percent to 16.50 reais at 2:34
p.m. in Sao Paulo trading, and Vale climbed 1.6 percent to 28.89
reais.  The decline in recent sponsorship deals is raising concern
at the International Olympics Committee that  Brazil  may not
reach its new target, said two senior IOC officials who asked
not to be identified. IOC spokesman  Mark Adams  said in an e-mail
that Rio 2016 is doing better than originally anticipated and
didn’t comment further.  Missing the revised fundraising target would force the
government to pick up the tab even as President  Dilma Rousseff 
tries to quell unrest by protesters upset with the 30 billion
reais being spent on the World Cup-related projects and $11.6
billion in public and private funding for the Olympics.  World Cup ‘Repeat’  “It’s a repeat of the World Cup, which was supposed to be
financed privately and now is 97 percent financed by the
taxpayers -- the Olympics won’t be any different,” Senator
Alvaro Dias of the opposition PSDB party said in a telephone
interview from Brasilia. “The majority will spend a lot so that
a few can have a party.”  Brazil’s Sports Ministry didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  Rio 2016 surpassed the 1 billion-real mark in 2011 with
just two sponsors: Bradesco and  America Movil (AMXL) , said Rodrigo
Frazao, the group’s sponsorship sales director. Mexico City-based America Movil, which controls wireless operator Claro and
fixed-line and Internet company Embratel, also won the rights to
broadcast the Rio Olympics in  Latin America , excluding Brazil.  America Movil and Bradesco, based in Osasco, Brazil,
declined to comment.  London Games  For the London Olympics, the most expensive local
sponsorships were for $63 million each, paid by seven companies
including British Airways Plc and Lloyds TSB Bank Plc, the
 Guardian newspaper   estimated  in July 2012.  Rio 2016 is counting on new deals with as many as eight
companies, including an accord with Sao Paulo-based  Cia. de
Bebidas das Americas ’s Skol beer brand set to be announced as
early as this week, to help raise as much as 1 billion reais
more in sponsorships in the next eight months, said one of the
people familiar with the talks. An Ambev press official from an
outside agency declined to comment.  “We are doing very well,” Rio 2016’s Frazao said. “We’re
not just looking for financial support, but for synergy. I look
for things that bring value beyond just bringing a sack of
money.”  Nuzman, the head of Rio 2016, said in an e-mail he’s
“fully confident” the committee will reach its revenue plans.  Some potential sponsors may have been scared off by
Brazil’s recent street demonstrations, which drew more than 1
million people and were the biggest in Brazil in two decades,
said Crow, the Synergy consultant.  ‘No Question’  “There’s no question it’s much harder to raise money
now,” he said.  The rush for funds comes after Rio 2016 has gone through
two CEOs, three chief operating officers and three commercial
directors since Brazil won its bid to host the games in 2009.
Economic growth is slowing, too, with a first-quarter pace of
1.9 percent compared with 7.5 percent in 2010, when Bradesco
signed on.  The committee is revising its total 5.63 billion-real
budget to stage the games, which includes the initial 1 billion
reais from sponsorships. The government is contractually
obligated to cover any shortfall in addition to public funds
being spent on related projects. The new budget is expected to
be released next month, Frazao said.  “We did a budget in 2007 with the dollar at one level,”
Frazao said in a telephone interview from Rio. “Over the years,
a lot happens -- the real loses or gains in value. Six years
ago, a lot hadn’t yet been defined.”  Budgets Too Low  Olympic budgets are always underestimated as part of the
years-long competition to win the games, said  Andrew Zimbalist ,
an economist at  Smith College  in Northampton,  Massachusetts , and
author of 12 books on the business of sports.  Games in Athens and Beijing, “take your pick and what you
inevitably find is that there are fantastic cost overruns,” he
said in a telephone interview.  Many companies are zeroed in on the World Cup, according to
 BRF SA (BRFS3) , Brazil’s biggest food producer and the most recent
company to sign on with Rio 2016.  “Until the World Cup is over, the Olympics won’t have all
the attention,” said Eduardo Bernstein, BRF’s director of
marketing, said in an interview in Sao Paulo. “As soon as it’s
done, all eyes will turn to the Olympics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  