-- Some Detroit Bonds Gain on Bet Orr’s Plan Will Fail: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-07-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/some-detroit-bonds-gain-on-bet-orr-s-plan-will-fail-muni-credit.html
Prices on some  Detroit  debt reached
a three-month high on bets Emergency Financial Manager Kevyn Orr’s plan to give bondholders less than 20 cents on the dollar
won’t hold up in bankruptcy court.  Orr’s proposal to avert last week’s Chapter 9 filing, a
record among U.S. municipalities, classified more than $530
million of general obligations as unsecured debt that would get
the same treatment as pensions and retiree health benefits. The
approach threatened a basic tenet of the $3.7 trillion local-bond market: that cities will raise taxes as high as needed to
avoid default.  The possibility that the bankruptcy judge will view the
pledge differently than Orr has helped boost some city
securities. Unlimited-tax bonds maturing in April 2014 traded
yesterday at an average price of 100 cents on the dollar, up
from 97 cents before Orr filed on July 18, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The debt hasn’t traded that high since April.  “Orr put together the simplest reading possible -- if you
don’t have the word ‘revenue’ or ‘pledged’ in the indenture,
then you’re totally unsecured,” said Bart Mosley, co-president
of Trident Municipal Research in New York.  Recovery Wager  The price fluctuation reflects the unprecedented nature of
Detroit’s filing. Stockton,  California , previously the biggest
U.S. city to seek protection, doesn’t have general obligations.
While bondholders were repaid about 96 cents on the dollar after
municipal defaults during the Great Depression, today’s
investors should expect a 50 percent recovery rate, similar to
company debt, Moody’s Investors Service said in May.  Decades of decline have left Detroit too poor to pay
billions owed to creditors such as bond insurers, investors and
city workers. Too few would accept Orr’s offer to repay $11.5
billion in unsecured debt -- including unlimited-tax and
limited-tax general obligations -- with $2 billion in borrowed
money.  The insurers, including units of  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  and
 MBIA Inc. (MBI) , are on the hook for at least 95 percent of the $2
billion of unsecured Detroit debt that wasn’t issued for city
utilities. That includes most of the general obligations that
Orr targeted for losses.  Market Value  Bankruptcy lawyers are divided about whether general
obligations, which are backed by the taxing power of a local
government, can be treated as unsecured debt, causing investors
to take less than full repayment. No municipality has used
bankruptcy to force such bondholders to take a cut in principal.  The approach of Orr, a former bankruptcy lawyer who was
appointed by  Michigan  Governor Rick Snyder in March, brought
scrutiny to the $900 billion segment of the municipal market.  The debate over the value of a general-obligation backing
stems from the relative rarity of local-government failures.
Only 648 municipal issuers have filed Chapter 9 since 1937,
according to  James Spiotto , a partner who leads the bankruptcy
group at Chapman & Cutler LLP in  Chicago .  Investors betting on repayment by Detroit include hedge
funds, according to a report yesterday from Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors. Detroit’s
unlimited-tax bonds have a C rating from Standard & Poor’s, 11
levels below investment grade. The city is the first in Michigan
to seek court protection.  ‘Positive’ Development  “Just on the face of it, the Chapter 9 filing could be
viewed as a mild positive for G.O. bondholders” because the
bankruptcy judge has more control, Vikram Rai, a fixed-income
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York, wrote in a report the
day after Detroit filed.  “It is still early in the process to predict recovery
rates,” Rai said. “There is no precedent for a large city with
this level of financial distress.”  At least 37 series of Detroit general-obligation bonds
 traded  the day after the filing. The average price rose in about
one of every four trades, indicating that the bulk of purchasers
wanted extra yield to own the city’s debt after Orr’s filing.
Prices move inversely to yields.  In an example of the price volatility, unlimited-tax bonds
maturing in April 2019 traded yesterday at an average of 89
cents on the dollar, down from 98 cents in June. The debt, like
the series trading at the highest since April, is backed by
National Public Finance Guarantee Corp.  G.O. Challenge  “This filing will be the first major case in which G.O.
bonds are likely to be challenged,” Peter Hayes, head of munis
at New York-based BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money
manager, said in a report. “Chapter 9 bankruptcy is not well
understood, partly because it happens so infrequently.”  In the municipal market this week, sales are set to dive
about 20 percent after Detroit’s filing.  Issuers such as Maryland plan to offer $6.8 billion in
debt, down from $8.6 billion last week, Bloomberg  data  show.  They’ll be borrowing with municipal interest rates close to
the lowest in a month. At  2.76 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis compare with  2.48 percent  for similar-maturity
Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 111 percent. The figure has averaged about 93 percent
since 2001. The greater the percentage, the cheaper munis are
compared with federal securities.  The municipal market has lost about 0.8 percent this month,
compared with a 0.1 percent gain for Treasuries, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show. Munis are on pace to trail their
federal counterparts for the second straight month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  