-- Soybean Third-Quarter Exports Seen at Risk of Drop by Oil World
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-23T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/soybean-third-quarter-exports-seen-at-risk-of-drop-by-oil-world.html
World soybean exports are at risk of
falling in the third quarter as farmers in  Argentina  may hang on
to beans amid dissatisfaction about export taxes and exchange
rates, Oil World wrote.  The estimate for shipments in the July-September period may
have to be cut by 500,000 to 1 million metric tons, the Hamburg-based oilseed researcher wrote in an e-mailed report today. Oil
World has forecast global exports of the oilseed will climb to
20.9 million tons in the three months compared with 20.6 million
tons a year earlier.  Farmers in Argentina have protested a 32 percent export tax
on soybeans as well as an “unrealistically low” official
exchange rate for the peso in recent weeks, according to Oil
World. June shipments from the country of 1.1 million tons were
less than expected, and indications for July were “not
encouraging either,” it said.  “There is a risk that world exports of soybeans will
decline from a year earlier in July-September,” Oil World
wrote. “The major swing factor is Argentina, as shipments in
June fell short of expectations.”  Oil World forecasts Argentina’s soybean exports will jump
to 4.5 million tons in the third quarter from 2.9 million tons
in the year-earlier period, and said that number may be cut.  “Subdued farmer selling and low shipments to the ports are
currently still keeping Argentine soybean exports at a
relatively low level,” Oil World said. “There is a high risk
that actual exports in the July-September quarter will be lower
than we are currently assuming.”  Inflation Hedge  Farmers in the country have generally limited sales to
cash-flow requirements, keeping a “much-larger-than-usual”
quantity of the oilseed unsold as a hedge against inflation,
according to the researcher.  Brazil  is predicted to ship 11.5 million tons of beans in
the July-September period up from 8.2 million tons a year
earlier, while U.S. soybean exports are seen at 2.4 million tons
compared with 6.7 million tons in 2012.  The U.S. outlook is based on “very low” shipments of a
combined 900,000 tons in July and August, before a pickup in
exports in September of 1.45 million tons, Oil World wrote. The
September number is “questionable” due to later than usual
harvesting in the U.S., the researcher said.  “The prospective delay in soybean harvesting this year as
well as infrastructure limitations in the U.S. could create a
difficult situation, particularly if  China  becomes a strong
buyer of U.S. soybeans for early shipment,” Oil World said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  