-- Spanish Pension Raids Spell Bad News for Bond Sales: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-07-24T12:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/spanish-pension-raids-spell-bad-news-for-bond-sales-euro-credit.html
Spain ’s Treasury may find one of its
best customers less eager to buy its bonds as budget woes lead
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to raid a government piggy-bank for
a second year.  Created in 2000 to guarantee pension payments in times of
hardship, the 59.3 billion-euro ($78 billion)  Fondo de Reserva 
was tapped for the first time in December for 7 billion euros to
fund Christmas bonuses and a monthly increase for retirees.
Further withdrawals will have taken an additional 4.5 billion
euros by the end of this month, helping to pay for pensioners’
 summer bonuses  and  tax refunds .  “The fund isn’t in a position to accumulate assets
anymore, it may even have to sell,” said Jose Antonio Herce, a
partner at consultancy firm Analistas Financieros
Internacionales in  Madrid . “There are more and more pensions to
pay and less and less money coming into the Social Security, the
fund will melt quickly now that we’ve started taking money out
of it.”  Rajoy is increasingly dependent on the pension reserve fund
as it reaps lower returns on Spanish sovereign debt, which
comprise 97.5 percent of its investments. The  10-year yield  has
declined by more than 310 basis points from the euro-era high of
7.75 percent that it reached a year ago, and was at 4.67 percent
at 2:23 p.m. in Madrid. The reserves were fully invested in
Spanish  government bonds  until the fund started buying foreign
securities in 2004.  ‘Bad Sign’  Spain is more than six months late in overhauling its tax-funded pensions system. The social security system deficit
widened to 1 percent of gross domestic product last year from
0.1 percent in 2011, and is forecast to reach 1.4 percent this
year. Lawmakers are debating changes, with the government
unlikely to draft a law and get it approved before a scheduled
annual pension increase, as well as the next Christmas bonus.  “It would be a really bad sign if the government needs to
use the fund in November since it would be the fifth time in a
little over a year,” said Manuel Gil, a fixed-income trader at
BCP Securities LLC in Madrid. “Spain really needs to accelerate
its reforms in order to gain international markets’
confidence.”  The government said this week that  social security  needs
more cash as contributions from companies and employees through
June fell 1.57 percent as spending rose 3.85 percent. Whether it
taps the pensions reserve again this year depends on cash flows,
said a spokeswoman for the Labor and Social Security Ministry,
who asked not to be named in accordance with government policy.  Rising Claims  The reserve, which was set up through social security
surpluses, hasn’t received money since the tax-funded pensions
system swung to a deficit in 2011. An economic  slump  that has
entered its sixth year in the euro region’s fourth-largest
economy is undermining the social security program as
 unemployment  rose to a record 27.2 percent.  At the same time, the number of pensions paid out climbed
to 9.06 million in June from 7.85 million in 2003. Monthly
payments increased 5 percent from a year ago to 7.76 billion
euros, an amount that would drain the Fondo de Reserva in eight
months should it have to take on the full burden.  The fund’s situation “isn’t surprising given the depth of
the recession Spain is going through and the deficit budgeted
for social security,” said Justin Knight, a strategist at UBS
AG in  London . “They may have to sell securities to take money
out. It’s a question of timing to eke it out.”  Investment Shift  The Fondo de Reserva’s margin of maneuver has shrunk since
it started preparing for cash needs in July 2012, as evidenced
by the description of the investment strategy in the annual
report released in April. Last year, it cut the portion of non-Spanish securities in its assets to 2.5 percent from 10.2
percent in 2011 by selling debt from euro-area countries to buy
domestic securities. It had 1.53 billion euros of French, Dutch
and German debt remaining on Dec. 31.  “Spain’s pension fund has moved to buying mostly its own
government debt and it obviously can’t accumulate more,” said
 Luca Jellinek , the head of European fixed-income strategy at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “In so
far as they are a good buyer, this money has got to be raised
somewhere else.”  Treasury Debt  Bank of Spain data show government administrations held
13.9 percent of the Treasury’s 658 billion-euro debt stock in
May. The Economy Ministry said the breakdown of the holdings
isn’t public. It compares with domestic banks’ share of 31.5
percent. Foreign investors held 36.9 percent, down from 50.5
percent in 2011.  Spain’s Treasury said it has met 73.3 percent of its mid-and long-term funding needs for 2013. Still, the nation’s debt
is surging after it secured European aid last year to bail out
domestic banks. Eurostat data published this week for the first
quarter show the nation’s total public debt load rose above the
European Union average -- excluding  Croatia  -- for the first
time in the single currency’s history.  Last year, the Fondo de Reserva focused reinvestments on
bills expiring within months in preparation for year-end cash
requirements. In July, the fund changed its rules, increasing to
35 percent from 16 percent of its total portfolio the maximum
amount that can be invested in an individual security. It also
raised to 12 percent from 11 percent the maximum share of the
Treasury’s total outstanding debt at any given time.  “Tapping the  reserve fund  once again isn’t a long-term
solution,” said Francesco Marani, a fixed-income trader at
Auriga Global Investors SV SA in Madrid. “Interim measures are
damaging for Spain’s credibility. What the government needs to
do is reform the whole contribution and compensation scheme as
other countries have done to lead pension spending onto a
sustainable path.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  