-- Starbucks to Sell Greek Yogurt at Cafes, Supermarkets
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-07-23T16:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/starbucks-to-sell-greek-yogurt-at-cafes-supermarkets.html
Coming soon to a Starbucks near you:
Greek yogurt.  In a partnership with  Danone SA (BN) , the world’s largest coffee
shop operator will start selling the dairy product in its cafes
next year and in food retailers in 2015. The plan helps address
two of Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz ’s key concerns:
offering healthier fare and helping Starbucks Corp. colonize the
grocery store.  “Starbucks is venturing into becoming a house of brands,”
similar to  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and Unilever, Bill Chidley,
senior vice president at Interbrand Design Forum in Dayton,
 Ohio , said in an interview. The move is risky, he said.  “When you start to get too diverse with your portfolio,
investors just have a hard time characterizing what you are,”
Chidley said. “Are they a house of brands or are they about
beverage experiences?”  Starbucks has steadily been moving into the grocery
business since 1995, when it began selling ice cream in such
flavors as java chip frappuccino and caramel macchiato. It has
since added packaged coffee, Tazo brand tea and Via instant
packets. Since wresting control of  Starbucks (SBUX) ’ supermarket
business from Kraft Foods Inc. in 2011, Schultz has accelerated
his rollout of new items into grocery stores with Keurig K-Cup
pods, Evolution Fresh juice and Refreshers energy drinks.  Danone, the Paris-based maker of Oikos and Activia brand
yogurts, will make the new products for Starbucks, which will be
branded “Evolution Fresh, Inspired by Dannon.” The financial
terms of the partnership weren’t disclosed. Starbucks bought
juicemaker Evolution Fresh in 2011 for $30 million in cash
before snapping up Teavana Holdings Inc., whose products it also
plans to sell in grocery stores.  Grocery Expansion  Starbucks’s grocery business has been expanding faster than
its cafe sales. In the year ended in September,  revenue  from
selling items in supermarkets and other retailers jumped 50
percent to $1.29 billion, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Total revenue that same year
increased 14 percent to $13.3 billion.  The shares fell 1.2 percent to $68.19 at 12:02 p.m. in  New
York . They had gained 29 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with a 19 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  Starbucks will start selling Greek yogurt parfaits in its
company-owned U.S. stores next year. The coffee-shop operator is
considering selling the yogurt internationally and may create
other foods with Danone, said  Jim Olson , a Starbucks spokesman.  Big Step  “This is really the next big strategic step in our health
and wellness evolution,” he said.  Sales of yogurt are increasing -- even more so for the
Greek variety. Greek-style yogurt sales in the U.S. surged 48
percent to $2.65 billion in the 52 weeks ended June 8, according
to data from Nielsen. Sales of all yogurt increased 6.1 percent
to $6.3 billion during the same time, the data show.  Chobani Inc.,  General Mills Inc. (GIS) ’s Yoplait and Fage Dairy
Industry SA also sell Greek yogurt.  “It’s certainly crowded,” Interbrand’s Chidley said. “A
new entrant is going to have to have something compelling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  