-- Steelmakers Raise Prices on China’s Economic Growth Optimism
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-23T04:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/steelmakers-raise-prices-on-china-s-economic-growth-optimism.html
Chinese steelmakers including  Hebei
Iron & Steel Group (000709)  and Jiangsu Shagang Group Co. joined their
Japanese peers in raising prices after Premier Li Keqiang
signaled  China  may support economic growth.  Shagang, the nation’s biggest non-state-owned mill, raised
steel wire prices on July 21 by as much as 100  yuan  ($16) a
metric ton, according to its  website . It was the Zhangjiagang,
Jiangsu province-based steelmaker’s second increase this month.
Hebei Steel, China’s biggest producer, raised some steel sheet
prices yesterday by as much as 100 yuan for August delivery
after cutting them a month earlier, according to industry
researchers Custeel.com and Mysteel.com.  China, the world’s largest producer and consumer of steel,
will seek to keep economic growth, employment and inflation
within limits, avoiding “wide fluctuations,” Li said July 16.
He said at a recent meeting with economists 7 percent is the
“bottom line” and the nation can’t allow growth to fall below
that, the Beijing News reported today.  “The government is sending signals it will stabilize the
economic growth in China, easing concerns for a further
slowdown,” said Xu Xiangchun, Beijing-based chief analyst with
Mysteel.com, “This helps revive purchasing power for steel amid
speculation prices will rebound after a four-month decline.”  Futures Rebound  Steel futures in Shanghai have rebounded for seven straight
weeks on expectations China will boost economic growth and as
iron ore rallied. Shares of  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp. (5401) 
and  Kobe Steel (5406)  Ltd.,  Japan ’s largest and third-largest mills,
gained today after the Nikkei newspaper reported Nippon Steel
and Toyota Motor Corp. agreed to a 10 percent price increase on
steel sheet supplies.  Hebei Iron & Steel Co., the main listed unit of Hebei Iron
& Steel Group, climbed 2.2 percent to 1.89 yuan as of 10:46 a.m.
in Shenzhen. Nippon Steel shares rose as much as 4.7 percent to
313 yen in  Tokyo , set for the highest level since Feb. 7, 2011.
Kobe Steel gained as much as 4.6 percent to 159 yen and JFE
Holdings Inc., Japan’s second-biggest mill, rose as much as 3.8
percent.  China’s gross domestic product rose 7.5 percent in the
April-to-June period from a year earlier, putting at risk the
official full-year target for the same pace.  Steel reinforcement bar prices in  Shanghai  have risen for
seven straight weeks, gaining 7.8 percent from the week ended
May 31. Rebar for January delivery was up 0.2 percent to 3,684
yuan a ton as of 10:15 a.m. local time today. Iron ore prices
arriving China’s Tianjin port have gained 19 percent over the
same period.  The steel futures had earlier declined 14 percent since Feb.
8 amid industry overcapacity, slowing demand and high
inventories.  China accounted for 49 percent of global steel production
in June, according to the World Steel Association. Japan, the
second-largest producer, accounted for 7 percent, the data
showed.  Three calls to Hebei Steel’s press office in Shijiazhuang
city went unanswered.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  