-- Steinway Seen Striking Chord With Rival Bidders: Real M&A
-- B y   C h e l s e y   D u l a n e y   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-07-23T13:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/steinway-seen-striking-chord-with-rival-bidders-real-m-a.html
Steinway Musical Instruments Inc. (LVB) 
has investors wagering that the maker of  $137,000  grand pianos
can secure a richer takeover offer.  Steinway has  traded  above the $35-a-share agreement with
private-equity firm Kohlberg & Co. since it was announced July
1, touching as high as $37.04, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Albert Fried & Co. said traders expect the owner of
the  160-year-old  piano maker to get a higher bid during the 45-day go-shop period, potentially from other buyout firms, after
Steinway sold its stake in  Manhattan ’s Steinway Hall last month.  Samick Musical Instruments Co. (002450) , the company’s largest
 shareholder , has said it’s weighing an offer. Steinway, whose
grand pianos take almost a year to make, could fetch as much as
$37.50 a share from  South Korea ’s Samick because of the value of
its brand, according to MKM Partners LLC. Shareholder Armored
Wolf LLC said the Waltham, Massachusetts-based company should be
valued at closer to $40 a share, which would surpass Steinway’s
 record  of $38.81 in 2007.  “People expect a higher offer,”  Sachin Shah , a special
situations and merger-arbitrage strategist at New York-based
Albert Fried, said in a phone interview. A financial buyer
“would be interested in owning a marquee name like Steinway and
then being able to grow it. It’s not that difficult to leverage
the brand name pretty substantially outside of the U.S., meaning
emerging markets, obviously in  China  and  Asia .”  Samick Offer?  Julie Theriault, a spokeswoman for Steinway, said the
company couldn’t comment on the go-shop period or whether Samick
is expected to bid. Kohlberg didn’t respond to requests for
comment, and representatives for Samick couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment.  Today, Steinway shares rose 0.2 percent to $36.25 at 9:30
a.m. in New York.  Samick, the Incheon, South Korea-based manufacturer of
pianos,  guitars  and flutes, already owns about 32 percent of
Steinway. Samick said in a July 10 regulatory filing that it’s
evaluating whether to submit a bid and will hold talks with the
company and financing sources.  Steinway offers Samick an iconic brand that it can expand
in  emerging markets , according to Steinway shareholders Bradd Kern at Armored Wolf and Boniface “Buzz” Zaino at Royce &
Associates LLC.  Samick “can pay more money because they want to buy the
franchise as opposed to the return on investment for the next
year or two,” Zaino, a  money manager  at New York-based Royce,
which oversees about $36 billion, said in a phone interview.
“It’s got a wonderful future as the middle class grows around
the world. There will be increasing demand for the product.”  Global Expansion  Zaino said $40 a share would not be an “unreasonable”
counterbid from Samick.  Other financial buyers may also be interested in the growth
prospects for Steinway, said Shah of Albert Fried.  Two private-equity firms conducted due diligence in 2012,
during a review of strategic alternatives that ended in
December, Steinway said in a July 15 proxy filing. One concern
for buyers was the value of the company’s interest in Steinway
Hall, which would affect the amount of available financing,
according to the filing.  Since selling its stake in the  New York  City building last
month for more than $46 million, “interested parties now know
what the company is worth,” Shah said. “That was directly
hurting them with many parties before because they couldn’t
justify the valuation.”  Kohlberg Deal  Steinway agreed to be acquired by Mount Kisco, New York-based Kohlberg for about $438 million. The bid was a 22 percent
premium to the stock’s 20-day average, after Steinway had
already climbed  44 percent  in 2013. The go-shop period ends on
Aug. 14.  “I don’t think the bid, at this price, is in the best
interest of shareholders,” Kern, a portfolio manager at  Irvine ,
California-based Armored Wolf, which oversees about $1 billion
including Steinway shares, said in a phone interview. “They’re
catching the company in the very early innings of the recovery
when there’s a lot more room to run on it.”  Steinway also received non-binding indications of interest
from two unnamed parties in March and May, according to the
proxy filing.  Another shareholder, Joseph Tillo Jr., sued Steinway in a
Delaware court this month, contending that the buyout was unfair
and inadequate.  While the market is betting on a higher offer, other
bidders may not emerge, according to Michael Corbett, chief
investment officer of Perritt Capital Management Inc., which
sold its Steinway shares after the Kohlberg deal was announced.  Risky Bet  “Given that Steinway is a pretty big name, there’s a
possibility that others might be interested,” Corbett, whose
Chicago-based firm oversees about $575 million, said in a phone
interview. “We’re not willing to take that risk though, so we
moved on.”  Yesterday, Steinway  shares  closed at $36.17, 3.3 percent
higher than the offer, signaling that some traders are expecting
a sweeter proposal, said  Keith Moore , an event-driven strategist
at  Stamford , Connecticut-based MKM Partners. He estimates Samick
could offer $37 to $37.50 a share.  “There’s a high probability that Samick will make a bid,”
Moore said in a phone interview. “It’s an iconic name. When you
have a company with a brand name such as this, you pay for the
name.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chelsey Dulaney in New York at 
 cdulaney@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  