-- Sulzer Explores Sale of Metco Unit as It Pares Outlook for 2013
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-07-23T05:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/sulzer-explores-sale-of-metco-unit-as-it-pares-outlook-for-2013.html
Sulzer AG (SUN) , a Swiss pump maker, said
it is exploring a sale of its Metco coatings division to focus
on oil and gas, power and water markets.  “The potential divestiture of the Sulzer Metco division
would generate additional funds for targeted acquisitions and
further investments toward organic growth in Sulzer’s key
markets,” Sulzer, based in Winterthur, said in a statement
today, adding that the Metco unit is mainly active in
automotive, aviation and general industries.  Chief Executive Officer Klaus Stahlmann, who joined from
MAN SE last year, is leaving his mark with the carving out of
Metco, which competes with OC Oerlikon AG and  IHI Corp. (7013) ’s
Ionbond. The company is reviewing a mid-term target of 6 percent
to 8 percent annual sales growth.  Sulzer pared its outlook to slight growth in order intake
and sales in 2013, and slightly lower profitability. The company
had previously forecast moderate growth, with profitability to
increase slightly.  Metco is the world’s largest maker of thermal-spray
coatings after about 40 acquisitions since 1985. That includes
the 1994 purchase of the Metco brand from U.S. laboratory-equipment maker  PerkinElmer Inc. (PKI)   First-half net income declined 23 percent to 99.5 million
Swiss francs ($106 million), the Winterthur-based company said
today. That missed the median 142.5 million-franc estimate of
four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Under-utilization of
capacities, changes in the business mix, higher restructuring
charges, and higher computer system costs impacted
profitability, Sulzer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  