-- Suncor Back in Favor as Alberta Heavy Oil Price Doubles
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-07-23T20:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/suncor-back-in-favor-as-alberta-heavy-oil-price-doubles.html
Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and other
Canadian oil stocks have risen almost twice as much as global
competitors after the country’s crude rose to a one-year high on
optimism that pipeline bottlenecks are easing.  Heavy-oil producers Suncor,  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) ,  Canadian
Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) ,  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  and  Baytex Energy
Corp. (BTE)  have returned an average of 15 percent in the past three
months as the benchmark price of Canadian heavy oil soared to as
high as $91.54, more than double its low in December. An index
of  global  oil stocks rose 7.6 percent in the same period.  The resurgence in Canadian oil prices and stocks comes as
pipeline bottlenecks that cut profits earlier this year have
been eased by a combination of new U.S. Gulf Coast pipelines,
increased rail transportation and supply shortages in  Canada .  Some analysts are recommending investors position
themselves for additional gains by Canadian oil stocks ahead of
a U.S. decision on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline.  “You are starting to see much more interest in these names
among buy-siders,” Sameer Uplenchwar, a senior analyst with
Global Hunter Securities LLC in Calgary, said in a phone
interview. “To put a multiple back on these companies, you need
to get clarity on Keystone XL, even if the Obama administration
comes out and says ‘No.’”  Lower Values  Uplenchwar said that the potential for additional stock
gains is shown by the diminished valuations since 2010, when
pipelines from Alberta to the U.S. Midwest started showing the
first signs of being clogged with surging output from Canada’s
oil sands.  Large-capitalization oil producers Suncor, Imperial,
Canadian Natural, Cenovus and Baytex have an average enterprise
value of eight times their 12-month trailing earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a measure of
core profits, down from 12.9 times in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Multiples declined as Canadian heavy oil was oversupplied
in the U.S. Midwest and there were few ways to get supplies to
coastal refineries that use more expensive overseas imports. Oil
stockpiles at the U.S. supply hub in Cushing,  Oklahoma , reached
a  record  51.9 million barrels in January.  As a result, some U.S. investors scaled back their holdings
of Suncor, Cenovus and other oil producers. U.S. ownership of
Calgary-based Suncor, the country’s largest energy company, fell
8.2 percentage points in the past three years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Canadian Prices  Reg Curren, a Cenovus spokesman, and Andrea Beblow, a
spokeswoman for Baytex, declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg. Representatives of Suncor, Imperial Oil and Canadian
Natural didn’t respond to e-mails requesting comment.  Benchmark Western Canadian Select heavy oil fell from an
average price of $14.90 below U.S. West  Texas  Intermediate oil
in 2010 to a record low of $42.50 below WTI prices in December
2012. Prices have been improving for most of this year, reaching
a high of $9.25 below WTI last month, and trading at a $22-a-barrel discount yesterday.  The price discounts caused Canadian oil producers’ stocks
to underperform their U.S. counterparts by 41 percent since the
access issue first emerged in January 2011, Menno Hulshof, a TD
Securities Inc. analyst, wrote in a note to clients last week.
“We may, however, be seeing the first signs of a reversal of
this trend.”  Bakken Fields  A decision on whether to issue a cross-border permit to
TransCanada’s Keystone XL pipeline is expected from the U.S.
government this year. The pipeline, under review for almost five
years, would carry as much as 830,000 barrels of oil from
northern  Alberta  to the U.S. Gulf Coast, and is opposed by
environmentalists concerned about greenhouse-gas emissions and
the risk of pipeline spills.  Uplenchwar said that while the Keystone XL pipeline has
been the focus of discussions about pipeline constraints, prices
have recovered without it because more production is moving by
rail. In North Dakota, railroads moved 75 percent of the state’s
more than 700,000 barrels a day of Bakken oil in April, up from
just 39 percent a year earlier, according to a monthly report by
the North Dakota Pipeline Authority.  Even if Keystone XL isn’t approved, Uplenchwar said more
pipelines are waiting in the wings to remove bottlenecks between
the Midwest and Gulf Coast.  “As long as Keystone keeps getting pushed down the line,
companies keep on waiting,” Uplenchwar said. “If Keystone gets
canceled, they can move on and just sign up on some other
pipelines.”  ‘Inflection Point’  Several pipeline projects are planned to move more oil to
the coasts. Later this year TransCanada expects to finish its
 Gulf Coast Pipeline , bringing as much as 700,000 barrels a day
from Cushing to Nederland, Texas. Next year,  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) 
expects to complete its Flanagan South pipeline from  Illinois  to
Cushing and the second phase and twinning of its Seaway
pipeline, a joint venture with  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD) ,
from Cushing to Texas.  “The heavy oil producers have ended their long prolonged
sell off and have only recently started to trade higher,”
Alistair Toward, an analyst at PI Financial Corp. in Calgary,
wrote in a note to clients last week. “Heavy oil companies are
at an inflection point and we recommend that investors increase
their exposure.”  He recommended the stocks of small emerging producers
including  BlackPearl Resources Inc. (PXX) ,  Palliser Oil & Gas Corp. (PXL) ,
and  Rock Energy Inc. (RE) , all based in Calgary.  ‘Monumental Drivers’  Chris Cox, a Calgary-based analyst at AltaCorp Capital
Inc., said the market’s view of Canadian oil prices changed when
Imperial Oil’s 110,000 barrel-a-day Kearl project was delayed
earlier this year. At the same time,  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 413,000 barrel-a-day refinery in Whiting,  Indiana , finished a conversion that
will allow it to take more heavy crude earlier than expected, he
said.  “Kearl volumes have continued to be pushed back, and
Whiting moved forward, so those are such monumental drivers of
supply and demand that when they moved in opposite directions it
completely changed our outlook on heavy oil,” Cox said in a
telephone interview last week.  Additional rail supply in Canada later this year will help
provide a more supportive market for the Canadian oil producers
until the new Gulf Coast pipelines are built next year, Cox
said.  “There’s definitely the case to be made that pipeline
congestion, while not completely a thing of the past, doesn’t
give us as many reasons to be fearful as it has in the last
year,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  