-- Swatch Foresees Strong End to Year After Slow First Half
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2013-07-23T07:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/swatch-sees-strong-second-half-as-first-half-profit-rises-6-1-.html
Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the maker of $50
colorful namesake watches as well as $5,000 Omega timepieces,
forecast a strong end to the year after first-half profit growth
slowed by a smaller margin than analysts’ predicted.  Net income increased 6.1 percent to 768 million Swiss
francs ($820 million), the Biel, Switzerland-based company said
today in a statement. That beat the 747 million-franc average of
five  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Profit rose 27 percent in
the second half of 2012.  Swatch  rose  as much as 3.6 percent in Zurich trading, the
most since April 23. The earnings provided relief for investors
amid slowing growth in China, where analysts expect a government
clampdown on corruption and extravagant spending among officials
to weigh on sales of  luxury goods  this year.  “The result is solid enough,” said Jon Cox, an analyst at
Kepler Cheuvreux in Zurich. “It’s clearly winning share in the
watch market. The outlook is upbeat.”  The shares rose 2.3 percent to 541.5 francs at 9:18 a.m.,
the  steepest gain  in the benchmark  Swiss Market Index. (SMI)   Swatch’s first-half gross revenue rose 8.7 percent to 4.18
billion francs, the maker of Tissot T-Touch diving watches said.
Operating profit increased 0.8 percent to 910 million francs.  Growth in China is a concern for watchmakers as buyers
there purchase more than a quarter of  Switzerland ’s production,
making it the largest market for the past five years.  CEO’s Stance  Shipments of Swiss watches to greater  China  fell 13 percent
in the first half of the year, according to the Federation of
the Swiss Watch Industry. Swatch is expanding in markets outside
of  Asia  such as the U.S. to offset the risk of depending too
much on that region, Chairwoman Nayla Hayek said at the annual
shareholders meeting on May 29.  The low- and mid-range segments of the Chinese market yield
the most opportunity, Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek said
April 25. On Jan. 30, he forecast that mainland China’s watch
market will expand about 10 percent in 2013. He also said at the
time that he sees no reason for the Swiss watch industry not to
have “healthy” growth this year.  Swatch Group bought watch and jewelry brand  Harry Winston 
for about $1 billion in March. The company said today it expects
a “significant” contribution from the acquisition.  “This brand has huge, almost untapped, market potential in
the high-jewelry and watches activities,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  