-- Swisscom Chief Schloter Found Dead in Suspected Suicide
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2013-07-23T14:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/swisscom-chief-schloter-found-dead-in-suspected-suicide.html
Carsten Schloter,  Swisscom AG (SCMN) ’s
chief executive officer for seven years, was found dead at his
home today in what police said is a suspected suicide.  There’s a “very high” probability Schloter, 49, killed
himself, said Pierre-Andre Waeber, a spokesman for the police.
The company said it’s in mourning and won’t disclose any further
details out of consideration for his family. Switzerland’s
largest phone company named Urs Schaeppi, head of its Swiss
business, interim CEO.  “A leading actor in the Swiss economy has been lost,”
Swiss Transport Minister Doris Leuthard said in a statement.
“Carsten Schloter successfully positioned Swisscom in a highly
competitive and rapidly changing market.”  Schloter, a German citizen, joined Bern-based Swisscom in
2000 and became CEO in 2006. He helped lead the purchase of
Fastweb SpA, an Italian fixed-line provider, in 2007. The Swiss
company paid about 4.6 billion euros ($6 billion) for the unit
to make up for slowing growth in Switzerland.  The deal has failed to reverse Swisscom’s fortune. The
company had its first quarterly loss in more than a decade in
the fourth quarter of 2011 due to a 1.2 billion-franc ($1.3
billion) writedown for Fastweb.  Swisscom’s boards and workforce are “deeply saddened and
pass on their condolences to the family and relatives,”
Chairman Hansueli Loosli said in a statement. Christian Neuhaus,
a spokesman for Swisscom, declined to comment further.  The shares  fell  0.8 percent to 413.7 Swiss francs as of
4:29 p.m. in Zurich after rising as much as 0.5 percent in
earlier trading.  Swisscom, like most European carriers, is coping with
sluggish consumer demand as competitive pressure pushes phone
bills down across the continent. The company has been
experimenting with new offerings to attract customers. It has
said such initiatives will raise costs, at least temporarily.  Schloter previously worked at Mercedes-Benz and Debitel,
according to Swisscom’s website. He had three children.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  