-- Corporate Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Climb; ING Sells Bonds
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-23T20:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/u-s-corporate-credit-default-swaps-hold-at-about-two-month-low.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose for the first time in five days after reaching a two-month low. ING U.S. Inc. issued $400 million in bonds.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
2.4 basis points to a mid-price of 75 basis points at 4:09 p.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure fell to as low as 71.8 basis points yesterday, the
lowest intraday level since May 23.  Investors are assessing quarterly earnings to determine
companies’ abilities to repay debt obligations. Seventy percent
of the 130 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies that have
already  reported earnings   exceeded  analysts’ forecasts, and 52
percent have beaten sales estimates, Bloomberg data show.  “Earnings are still a mixed bag because you haven’t seen
as much growth on the revenue side,” Robert Grimm, head of
corporate trading at Odeon Capital Group LLC in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “Corporations are getting leaner and
able to manage their costs. But we still need to see a pickup on
the revenue side that comes with sustained economic growth.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  ING Offering  ING U.S., which is majority-owned by ING Groep NV, the
biggest Dutch financial-services company, sold $400 million in
5.7 percent, 30-year senior notes yielding 215 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to Bloomberg data.  Proceeds from the bonds, which may be rated Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service, will be used to pay existing debt and for
general corporate purposes, the data show.  The average relative yield on investment grade debt
tightened 0.3 basis point to 126.1 basis points, Bloomberg data
show.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 13.3 basis points to 365.4 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Five-year credit swaps tied to the debt of  RadioShack Corp. (RSH) 
surged 149.6 basis points to 1,574.2 at 3:13 p.m. in New York,
as the  Fort Worth , Texas-based company posted a second quarter
 loss  of 53 cents a share, below analysts’ estimates of a 24 cent
per share loss.  RadioShack  That’s the highest level since Feb. 25 on a closing basis,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Financial and
compiles quotes on the privately negotiated market.  The U.S. speculative-grade default rate held in the second
quarter, analysts at Moody’s led by Lenny Ajzenman said in a
quarterly report.  “Recent market volatility produced a sharp rise in yields
and spreads over Treasuries,” Ajzenman said in a statement
today. “But we expect only a slight increase in the default
rate, to 3.2 percent by November from 2.9 percent at the end of
June, before it retreats to 2.6 percent by end-June next year.”  Default rates remain below the historical average of 4.5
percent, Moody’s said.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt tightened 1.3 basis points to 529.3 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  