-- U.S. House Prices Climbed 7.3% in Year Through May
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-07-23T15:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/u-s-house-prices-climbed-7-3-in-year-through-may.html
U.S. house prices  rose  7.3 percent
in the year through May as buyers competed for a small supply of
listings, according to the  Federal Housing Finance Agency .  Prices  increased  0.7 percent on a seasonally adjusted basis
from April, the FHFA said in a report today from  Washington . The
average economist estimate was for a 0.8 percent gain, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Real estate values are climbing as improving  employment 
helps draw buyers into the market for a tight inventory of
homes. A separate report today from  Zillow Inc. (Z)  showed U.S. home
values rose 2.4 percent in the second quarter from the previous
three months. It was the biggest gain for a second quarter since
2004, the Seattle-based property-research company said.  “The U.S. housing market as a whole is currently not
experiencing a bubble, but in many places it sure must feel like
one,” Zillow Senior Economist Svenja Gudell said in a
statement. “Homeowners are feeling a sense of whiplash after
years of depreciation.”  The limited  supply  and higher  mortgage rates  may be
restraining purchases.  Sales (ETSLTOTL)  of previously owned homes
unexpectedly slipped 1.2 percent in June to 5.08 million
annualized rate, the National Association of Realtors reported
yesterday. The number of properties on the market last was month
was the fewest for any June since 2001.  Market ‘Excitement’  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan was 4.37 percent
last week, up from a near-record low of 3.35 percent in May,
according to Freddie Mac.  “Our inventory is incredibly low right now,” Margaret Kelly, chief executive officer of Re/Max LLC, a Denver-based
network of real estate agencies, said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers” with Sara Eisen and Deirdre Bolton. “When you
have low inventory, high demand, prices rise, you’ve got a lot
of excitement in the market. I think once we see inventory rise
a bit, you’re going to see some of those things calm down. It’ll
be more of a normal market.”  The FHFA’s report showed prices increased 15.8 percent from
a year earlier in the Pacific area, which includes California
and Oregon. In the Mountain region, including Nevada and
 Arizona , the gain was 12.7 percent. The East South Central area
-- including Kentucky and  Alabama  -- had the smallest increase,
at 2.7 percent.  The FHFA index measures transactions for single-family
properties financed with mortgages owned or securitized by
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . The gauge is 11.2 percent below its
April 2007 peak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  