-- UBS Bid-Rigging Trial Judge Skeptical of U.S. Loss Claims
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/ubs-bid-rigging-trial-judge-skeptical-of-u-s-loss-claims.html
Ex- UBS AG (UBS)  Managing Director Peter Ghavami and two former colleagues convicted of rigging municipal
bond investment deals may be sentenced to less prison time than
the government is seeking, a federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood told prosecutors in
 Manhattan  that she may reject their proposed calculations for
losses from the scheme, an important factor in determining the
sentencing range. Wood said her decision is tentative and may
change before the defendants are sentenced today.  “I do not accept all of the elements included in the
government’s loss estimates,” Wood said during a hearing
yesterday. The government was unable to show in some cases
“that the claimed losses are anything more than theoretical.”  In August, a jury found Ghavami and former colleagues Gary
Heinz and Michael Welty guilty of  wire-fraud  conspiracy for
rigging bids from August 2001 to July 2002 and arranging to pay
kickbacks to the brokerage firm CDR Financial Products Inc. in
exchange for help in manipulating auctions. Ghavami and Heinz
were also found guilty of wire fraud.  The trial followed a five-year federal antitrust probe into
the $3.7 trillion municipal  bond market . Zurich-based UBS,  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and other banks have paid more than $700
million to settle U.S. claims over the scheme.  Prosecutors have asked for sentences of at least 17 1/2
years for Ghavami, 19 1/2 years for Heinz and at least 11 1/4
years for Welty.  Municipal Bonds  Issuers of tax-exempt municipal bonds must use competitive
bidding when selecting firms to handle deals to invest the
proceeds, the government said. The defendants conspired with
employees at other financial firms to rig bids for municipal
bond investment contracts, costing cities, schools and the U.S.
Treasury Department more than $25 million in total losses,
prosecutors said.  Wood tentatively calculated the total loss for the three
men at about $7.7 million, and said that the amounts stemming
from some of the deals, known as escrow transactions, were
unclear.  While the loss amount would establish a lower guideline
range than what prosecutors requested, Wood can still sentence
the defendants outside of the range.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York federal court
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 