-- UBS Backs Alpine Wrestling Affirming Swiss Banking Roots
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-07-23T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/ubs-backs-alpine-schwingen-wrestling-affirming-swiss-traditions.html
Four years after Credit Suisse Group
AG signed a deal with sporting icon  Roger Federer ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  is
renewing its backing for 230-pound Swiss farmers and butchers
who wrestle in Alpine pastures to win prize cows.  UBS will sponsor  Switzerland ’s largest mountain wrestling
event on Aug. 30 as a renaissance in the centuries-old sport of
schwingen complements the biggest Swiss bank’s focus on its home
market. The festival organizer expects about 290,000 visitors in
three days, almost 50 percent more than the last time Zurich-based UBS helped fund the games in 2007.  “Schwingen, just like yodeling, is an ancient Swiss
tradition,” Tom Ackermann, head of marketing for Switzerland at
UBS, said in a phone interview. “Schwingen gets to the heart of
the very Swiss characteristic of being very traditional and
progressive at the same time.”  In schwingen bouts, wrestlers clasp each other’s jute pants
and try to throw their opponent onto his back. The winner must
keep hold of the pants with at least one hand while both of his
opponent’s shoulders touch the ground in a sawdust ring.  The authenticity of a sport first depicted on 13th-century
choir stalls in Lausanne cathedral reassures a Swiss public
concerned about the country’s future after about 5,000 banking
jobs disappeared in the past six years, said  Kurt Imhof , a
sociology professor at the University of Zurich. UBS is drawn to
the event as the company shrinks its global investment bank and
shrugs off attacks on Swiss banking secrecy that are roiling the
industry in the local market.  Champion Wrestler  At the end of next month, wrestlers from around Switzerland
will gather in the cheese-making region of Emmental in a bid to
dethrone 23-year-old champion  Kilian Wenger , a 6-foot 2-inch
(1.9 meters), 235-pound (104-kilogram) butcher and cabinet maker
who draws cheering crowds and autograph hunters.  “Many Swiss value that such traditions and values are
being maintained and even more so in today’s hectic times,”
said Wenger, who chose schwingen at the age of nine because his
family couldn’t afford to buy skis.  Wenger has sponsorship contracts with  Deere & Co. (DE) , the
largest maker of agricultural equipment, and  General Motors
Co. (GM) ’s brand Opel, after winning the national competition in
2010. Wenger, who also works as a trucker, declined to disclose
his earnings, while saying he “could live from the sport.”  Federer, a 17-time tennis Grand Slam champion, makes $71
million annually from prize money and 10 advertisement deals
with companies including Rolex, Mercedes-Benz and Moet &
Chandon, according to Forbes magazine.  Membership Boost  The membership of Solothurn schwinger club more than
doubled to about 130 last year, said Chairman Ueli Emch, 35, a
local dairy farmer and former wrestler. Tourists and locals are
boosting the size of crowds for sponsors such as UBS and Swiss
supermarket chain Migros, he said.  “It is delicious to watch these sponsors coming to such a
humble game, particularly a UBS, which deals with so much
money,” said Emch, who was attending a wrestling festival on
the Weissenstein, a mountain north of Solothurn.  UBS replaces Raiffeisen, the Swiss cooperative bank that
sponsored the 2010 event. Other backers this year are Toyota
Motor Corp. and Swiss beer maker Feldschloesschen.  “It is more entertainment than tradition, although I do
feel the locals take it very serious,” said Yang Liu, 33, an
acoustics engineer from  China  working in Switzerland, who
visited the Weissenstein festival. “Maybe that is the
qualification to become Swiss?”  The Alps  The sport’s heritage drew Thomas Leiser, an arts and crafts
teacher from Zurich who joined 5,000 other spectators at a
contest at the Rigi, known as the Queen of Mountains because of
its panoramic views across the Swiss Alps.  “It is genuine Swiss culture, not just a Walt Disney event
for tourists,” he said.  The increasing popularity of the sport was recognized by
the anti-immigrant  Swiss People’s Party , which donned the
edelweiss shirts worn by rural wrestlers for a political
campaign in 2011. That prompted organizers of the national games
to write to the party, requesting it stop using schwingen for
political advantage.  Schwingen gained further prominence with the introduction
in April 2012 of a  magazine  about the sport and sale of
 calendars  featuring bare-chested combatants posing in the
mountains. Wenger said he gets weekly love letters from fans.  For UBS, which also sponsors Formula One, the wrestling
festival is one of several Swiss cultural and sporting events,
including  Art Basel , the  Montreux Jazz Festival  and Ballet
Zurich, that the bank supports. UBS derived 43 percent of its
25.4 billion francs of revenue in 2012 from Switzerland, where
more than 33 percent of the Zurich-based bank’s 61,782 staff are
employed.  “We don’t sponsor sporting individuals, we sponsor top
cultural and athletic events in Switzerland,” said Ackermann of
UBS. “Switzerland is our home and we also support the country’s
traditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  