-- Hungary Yields Fall 2nd Day Before Rate Meeting: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-07-23T09:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/hungary-yields-fall-2nd-day-before-rate-meeting-budapest-mover.html
Hungary’s benchmark bond yields
retreated for a second day as investors bet the central bank
will extend 11 months of interest-rate cuts today.  Yields on the nation’s 10-year bonds dropped four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 5.91 percent by 10 a.m. in
Budapest, bringing a two-day decrease to 9 basis points. The
forint depreciated 0.1 percent to 294.65 per euro after
strengthening 0.5 percent yesterday.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will lower the two-week rate by 25
basis points to a record 4 percent, its 12th consecutive
quarter-point cut, according to all 21 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Governor Gyorgy Matolcsy will present a “guideline”
for future interest-rate policy in his first press conference on
the same day as the rate decision since taking over in March,
the central bank said yesterday.  “Guidance on whether easing will continue after the
expected cut today may have a serious impact on the forint and
yields,” Zoltan Reczey and Gergely Palffy, Budapest-based
analysts at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt., wrote in an e-mailed
report dated today. “As Matolcsy said he would only speak on
strategic decisions, today may be such an announcement on the
rate outlook.”  The central bank sees further scope for cutting  interest
rates  as long as there is no “bad news” on stimulus from the
U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks, Matolcsy said June
27. Deputies Adam Balog and Ferenc Gerhardt also said this month
that they see more room for rate cuts.  Three-month forward-rate agreements, used to wager on
interest rates, were little changed at 3.73 percent, 46 basis
points below the Budapest Interbank Offered Rate.  “The central bank will cut twice more after today’s
meeting to 3.5 percent, but any cuts from now on will be
threatened by a rapid reversal if risk appetite wanes again,”
Dan Bucsa, a London-based economist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , wrote in
an e-mailed report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  