-- Municipals Seen as Cheap After Detroit Filing: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-07-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/municipals-seen-as-cheap-after-detroit-filing-chart-of-the-day.html
Municipal bonds are an “outrageous
bargain” in the wake of  Detroit ’s bankruptcy filing, according
to David R. Kotok, Cumberland Advisors Inc.’s chairman and chief
investment officer.  As the CHART OF THE DAY shows, the highest-rated notes and
bonds of state and local governments yield more than Treasuries
of similar maturity for 1 year through 30 years without having
to adjust for tax benefits. The data was compiled by Municipal
Market Advisors, an independent research firm, and Bloomberg.  “The present pricing of tax-free bonds makes sense only if
we happen to think the income-tax code of the U.S. is going to
be repealed,” Kotok wrote yesterday in a commentary. “We are
seizing on this bargain provided to us by market dysfunction.”  Yields on AAA rated general obligation bonds, backed by the
seller’s credit and taxing power as opposed to a specific source
of revenue, appear in the chart. They are typically lower than
Treasury yields because their interest is exempted from U.S.
income taxes, unlike payments on federal debt.  Top-rated 10-year debt yielded 31 basis points more than
comparable Treasuries at the end of last week. Since 2001, the
yield has been 30 basis points less on average. Each basis point
amounts to 0.01 percentage point.  Municipal borrowers that have the highest ratings and best
track records are almost as creditworthy as the Treasury, wrote
Kotok, based in Sarasota,  Florida . “History is 100 percent on
the bond buyer’s side when it comes to this debate,” he wrote.
Detroit, which filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection last
week, lost investment-grade ratings on its debt in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  