-- United Technologies Gains Most in Dow as Forecast Is Raised
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-07-23T20:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/united-technologies-profit-beats-estimates-as-forecast-boosted.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  rose the
most among  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  stocks after boosting
the lower end of its 2013 profit forecast and reporting second-quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  The stock  climbed  2.9 percent following today’s revised
projection that earnings per share may climb 12 percent to
15 percent this year to $6.00 to $6.15. The Hartford,
Connecticut-based company had previously called for an increase
of a minimum of 9.3 percent to $5.85 a share.  United Technologies  is benefiting from a surge in demand
for replacement parts for its Pratt & Whitney engines as the
 airline industry  is poised to boost profitability and build up
its inventory of spares. Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert ’s overhaul of the company to focus on aviation is
increasing profit as the $16.5 billion purchase of Goodrich
Corp. helps win business from customers such as  Embraer (EMBR3)  SA.  “The growth in orders is fuel for the coming quarters,”
Chenevert said in a telephone interview after the results were
announced. “It gives me high confidence for what’s coming in
the second half.”  The stock  increased  to $105.12 at the close in  New York ,
outpacing the Dow 30-stock average, which rose 0.1 percent.
United Technologies’ advance was its biggest daily gain since
August 2012.  Profit Climbs  The stock’s 28 percent year-to-date rise  beat  the
19 percent jump for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  Net income rose to $1.56 billion, or $1.70 a share in the
second quarter, beating the $1.58 average of 21  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Profit a year earlier was $1.33 billion,
or $1.62 a share.  Operating income at the aerospace systems unit, which
includes Goodrich, more than doubled from a year earlier to $499
million. Profit at the Pratt & Whitney unit, which makes engines
for commercial and military aircraft, climbed 33 percent to $567
million.  “This was a better than expected quarterly performance,”
Robert Stallard, an analyst with Royal Bank of Canada, wrote in
a note to clients today. “We’re encouraged by the improving
order trends, particularly in the aftermarket.”  Stallard has a buy rating on the shares.  ‘Bounce Back’  Orders for Pratt & Whitney commercial-aircraft engine spare
parts climbed 65 percent in the quarter, compared with a
14 percent gain in the first three months of the year. At
United Technologies Aerospace Systems, spares orders advanced
4 percent.  “A comeback in spare parts for planes bodes well for these
guys because it’s a really profitable business,” Christian Mayes, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co., said in a telephone
interview. “Demand has been pent up for so long with airlines
holding back on restocking, but they just couldn’t hold back
anymore. It was really overdue for a bounce back.”  Mayes is based in  St. Louis  and has a buy rating on the
stock.  The company will spend $450 million this year to
streamline operations, including closing some facilities.
That’s a 29 percent increase from a previous forecast for
$350 million in restructuring costs.  United Technologies’ revenue in the second quarter
increased 16 percent to $16 billion, trailing the $16.4 billion
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company
forecast full-year sales of $64 billion, matching the lower end
of its previous outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 