-- Turkey Raises Rates for First Time Since 2011 on Lira Slide
-- B y   O n u r   A n t
-- 2013-07-23T14:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/turkey-increases-top-end-of-interest-rate-corridor-to-7-25-.html
Turkey ’s central bank raised
 interest rates  for the first time in almost two years after the
lira slumped to a record low this month.  The bank increased its overnight lending rate by 75 basis
points to 7.25 percent today, and said that “additional
monetary tightening will be implemented when necessary.” It
kept its benchmark one-week repo rate and overnight borrowing
rate unchanged at 4.5 percent and 3.5 percent respectively,
according to an announcement on its website.  The currency has been rallying since the central bank on
July 15 signaled its intention to increase rates for the first
time since October 2011. That announcement came amid mounting
speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will begin cutting its
monetary stimulus, threatening capital inflows to higher-yielding, riskier  emerging markets  such as Turkey.  “The lira should take a breather in the mid-run with wider
overnight rate corridor,” Ipek Ozkardeskaya, a currency
strategist at Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva, said in e-mailed
comments. The bank may also increase the benchmark rate in the
future to curb inflation, she said.  Turkey’s central bank says its rates corridor policy, which
allows it to switch funding between its various rates on a daily
basis, gives it flexibility in times of economic uncertainty.  Biggest Banks  The bank also said today that it would eliminate a 50
basis-point discount for primary dealers, the country’s biggest
banks, on days when it offers funding only at the top end of the
corridor. That would make the effective increase in costs for
the main banks 125 basis points on those days.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 10 economists
forecast that the bank would raise the lending rate to 7
percent. All of the economists predicted the two other rates
would remain unchanged.  The lira was trading at 1.9108 per dollar at 5:10 p.m.,
little changed from yesterday’s close. It has declined 6.6
percent this year, the second-worst performer among emerging-market currencies in  Europe ,  Africa  and the  Middle East  after
 South Africa ’s rand. Yields on two-year benchmark lira bonds
rose three basis points to 8.86 percent.  The central bank said it will follow a “cautious” policy
until inflation is in line with medium-term targets. Inflation
accelerated to a nine-month high of 8.3 percent in June. The
year-end inflation target is 5 percent.  “The tone of the statement seems relatively hawkish,”
emphasizing slower capital inflows, above-target credit growth
and higher inflation, Ibrahim Aksoy, an economist at Seker
Invest in Istanbul, wrote in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Onur Ant in Ankara at 
 oant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  