-- Lustful Octopus, Erotic Ninjas Spice Forbidden-Art Show
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2013-07-23T18:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/lustful-octopus-erotic-ninjas-spice-forbidden-art-show.html
A bondage scene masterminded by a
ninja, a frolicking fivesome and a lustful octopus.  No, these aren’t images downloaded from Internet porn
sites. Centuries before  Hugh Hefner  and Larry Flint started
peddling skin,  Japan  was producing sexually explicit prints
known as “shunga” or “spring pictures.”  This form of Japanese erotica was popular with both men and
women during the Edo period (1603-1868), which lasted until
Japan opened itself up to Western influences and shunga became
taboo.  More recently, the West has come to recognize shunga as a
legitimate art form, something Japan has been slow to do.  Exhibitions have been held in  Belgium ,  Finland ,  France  and
 Hawaii , and now at Sotheby’s  Hong Kong  Gallery. “Beyond the
Paper Screen: An Exhibition of Japanese Erotic Prints from the
Uragami Collection” features 60 exquisite woodblock prints.  Uragami Mitsuru, a Japanese collector who loaned his works
to the Hong Kong show, says he’s been unable to organize a
similar exhibition in Japan. He says he hopes greater
international exposure will help convince Japanese institutions
to display his collection back home.  “The Tokyo National Museum hesitated to show it and so far
I haven’t been able to get the Mori Museum to agree apart from a 
few works. In bookshops you can see these images but why can’t 
the real exhibit show? It’s nonsense,” he said at the exhibition.  Floating World  The  Sotheby’s (BID)  show features shunga produced by some of
Japan’s foremost ukiyo-e (pictures of the floating world)
artists including Keisai Eisen, Katsukawa Shuncho and Kitagawa
Utamaro.  Katsushika Hokusai, best known for his famous woodblock
print  “The Great Wave,”  also excelled at shunga. His 1814
work, “The Dream of the Fisherman’s Wife,” depicts a naked
shell diver being sexually embraced by two octopuses. It has
inspired others to produce tentacular erotica including Picasso
and contemporary Japanese artist Aida Makoto.  In keeping with the ukiyo-e school, human faces in shunga
works are highly stylized and rarely betray much emotion. The
genitalia, by contrast, are highly naturalistic -- apart from
their exaggerated size -- and rendered in graphic detail.  Many artists also included calligraphy, providing a running
dialog to complete the scenes.  Typically, editions of between 200 and 1,000 wood block
print were made, with standard formats rarely measuring more
than 25 by 27 centimeters (9.8 inches by 10.6 inches). So
popular were some shunga that printing shops rented them out,
becoming a sort of precursor to video stores, Uragami said.  Shunga was more than just a source of titillation. It was
also prized for its talismanic properties. It was common for
samurai to keep a shunga print in their sword boxes. During the
Meiji era (1868-1912), the government issued copies for soldiers
to wear on the inside of their helmets (just as U.S. pilots
painted pinup girls on their World War II planes for good luck).  “Beyond the Paper Screen” runs through July 31 at
Sotheby’s Hong Kong Gallery, 5th Floor, One Pacific Place, 88
Queensway. For information:  http://bit.ly/12EOPP2   The  British Museum  is also running a show based on
Uragami’s collection entitled “Shunga: Sex and Humor in
Japanese Art 1600-1900.” The show will run for three months
from Oct. 3. For information:  http://bit.ly/WwhTTp   (Frederik Balfour is a reporter-at-large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater and
 James Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 