-- Sweden Caves to Europe Power Market Rout as Asset Sales Loom
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-07-24T07:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/vattenfall-writes-down-4-6-billion-after-european-expansion.html
Sweden  signaled it may be readying
the non-Nordic units of  Vattenfall  AB for divestment as the
utility writes down $4.6 billion after its expansion into
 Germany  and the Netherlands backfired.  “We need to analyze this thoroughly and in an unprejudiced
manner,” Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman, who oversees
state assets, said yesterday in an interview in Stockholm.
“Vattenfall has three big problem areas: coal in Germany,
nuclear in Germany and gas in the Netherlands.”  Utilities, including Vattenfall and  EON AG (EOAN) , are struggling
to adjust to plans in Germany to shift energy consumption in the
largest European economy away from fossil fuels and over to
solar and wind. Power companies as of March hedged their future
electricity output more than at any time in the past five years
in response to the longest slump in prices on record.  Vattenfall, the largest Nordic utility, said yesterday it
will invest less and push through deeper cost cuts after writing
down the value of its assets in northern  Europe  by 29.7 billion
kronor ($4.6 billion). The Stockholm-based company cut its
investment target to 105 billion kronor in 2014 to 2018, 18
billion kronor less than a previous plan through 2017. The cost-cutting goal was raised 67 percent for 2014 to 2.5 billion
kronor. Costs in 2015 will be cut by 2 billion kronor, it said.  The yield on the company’s benchmark 6.25 percent note
maturing in 2021 slid two basis points to 2.14 percent as of
9:12 a.m. in Stockholm.  First Step  Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt ’s government has been
selling assets including stakes in Nordea Bank AB and phone
company TeliaSonera AB, since coming to power in 2006. Sweden’s
parliament in 2011 opposed selling a stake in Vattenfall, which
operates 7 of Sweden’s 10 nuclear reactors and 92 of the Nordic
nation’s hydropower stations.  Vattenfall yesterday unveiled plans to split its operations
into two divisions, one for the Nordic markets and one for
continental Europe and the U.K.  “This could be a first step in the way of divesting the
non-Nordic assets and also fossil fuelled assets,” said Jakob Magnussen at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “I think it’s their
ambition to regain the position they had in the 90s, as a local
champion in the Nordic region, which was non-CO2 emitting.”  Take Responsibility  Vattenfall started expanding outside Sweden in the mid-1990s, when it bought a Finnish electricity distribution company
and started doing business in Germany. Since then, it’s spread
its operations to  Poland ,  Denmark , the U.K. and the Netherlands.
Most of the impairments announced yesterday stemmed from its
Dutch unit Nuon Energy NV, which Vattenfall bought for 89
billion kronor in 2009.  “Vattenfall needs to take responsibility for their
operations, and I think that is what they are doing when
intensifying the savings program and splitting up the company,”
Norman said. “This is a good way forward.”  Vattenfall earlier this year said it misread energy markets
when it made the Nuon purchase, which included fossil-fuel
powered plants. On Feb. 12, the company wrote down the value of
Nuon’s generating assets by 17 percent after energy demand and
carbon emission prices fell short of forecasts.  The company said yesterday that it now values Nuon at 52
billion kronor.  Quarterly Loss  In 2010 and 2011, Vattenfall started selling some of its
international operations, including its German high-voltage
transmission grid, its Polish and Belgian operations and parts
of its Finnish unit. In 2011, the Swedish utility was forced to
write down the book value of its two nuclear  power plants  in
Germany after Europe’s biggest economy decided to take its 17
nuclear plants out of operation by 2022.  Vattenfall said the writedowns announced yesterday included
14.5 billion kronor relating to hard coal and gas power plants
in the Netherlands, 4.1 billion kronor for hard coal plants in
Germany and 2.5 billion kronor for combined heat and power
plants in the Nordic countries. It reported impairments of 6.8
billion kronor on goodwill, mainly at its trading operations.  Vattenfall, which traces its roots back to 1909, reported a
second-quarter net loss of 23.7 billion kronor, compared with a
profit of 874 million kronor in the same period a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in  Stockholm  at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  