-- Virginia Governor McDonnell Apologizes as He Pays Back Loans
-- B y   T o l u s e   O l o r u n n i p a
-- 2013-07-23T19:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/virginia-governor-mcdonnell-apologizes-as-he-repays-ceo-s-loans.html
Virginia  Governor Robert McDonnell
said he and his wife returned more than $120,000 in loans from
the chief executive officer of  Star Scientific Inc. (STSI)  as he
apologized for the episode.  “I am deeply sorry for the embarrassment certain members
of my family and I brought upon my beloved Virginia and her
citizens,” he said in a statement released today by his legal
team. “I want you to know that I broke no laws and that I am
committed to regaining your sacred trust and confidence.”  McDonnell’s relationship with the CEO, Jonnie Williams, has
drawn a federal investigation and is tarnishing the reputation
of the Republican governor in the final year of his term. It may
also hurt Kenneth Cuccinelli, the Republican attorney general
seeking to replace McDonnell in November, because of his own
ties to Williams.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  is investigating
McDonnell’s ties to the Williams, questioning whether he used
his office to help Star in return for tens of thousands of
dollars in gifts and loans.  McDonnell has described Williams as a friend and said his
administration hasn’t given any special favors to Star, based in
 Glen Allen , Virginia. On July 18, McDonnell released a review
saying there were no grants, contracts or public funds given to
Star during McDonnell’s administration, even after three
meetings that Williams and another Star employee had with state
health and human resources officials.  Real-Estate Business  Between 2011 and 2012, Williams loaned the money to
McDonnell’s wife and to a real-estate business owned by the
Republican governor and his sister.  McDonnell said the repayments included $52,278 for a loan
made to the governor’s wife in 2011 and $71,837 for two loans
made to the real-estate business in 2012. The payments included
both principal and interest, according to the statement.  The loans, along with other gifts from Williams, weren’t
originally listed on McDonnell’s financial disclosure reports.  Cuccinelli has acknowledged failing to disclose gifts from
Williams, including using the CEO’s vacation home last summer.
The attorney general appointed a special prosecutor to look into
the financial-reporting issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toluse Olorunnipa in Washington at 
 tolorunnipa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  