-- Vodafone Would Consider Offer for Verizon Wireless Stake
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-07-23T14:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/vodafone-would-consider-offer-for-verizon-wireless-stake-1-.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  Chairman Gerard Kleisterlee told shareholders the company would consider an
offer for its stake in Verizon Wireless, which partner  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  has said it’s interested in buying.  Vodafone, the second-largest wireless carrier, has no
update on the situation, Kleisterlee said today at the Newbury,
England-based company’s annual shareholder meeting.  “There is ongoing communication,” Kleisterlee said.
“Everyone on the board, at every board meeting gets an update
on where we are.”  Verizon Communications has said it’s interested in buying
out its partner’s 45 percent holding, which analysts have said
may be valued at $120 billion or more. Vodafone said that while
it’s happy with the way the asset is performing, it would
consider offers. Verizon Wireless, the biggest U.S. mobile-phone
company, reported last week 941,000 new mobile customers added
in the second quarter and 7.5 percent sales growth to $20
billion.  “If we see proposals that generate more value for
shareholders we will consider them,” Kleisterlee said.  Bob Varettoni , a spokesman for New York-based Verizon
Communications, declined to comment on Kleisterlee’s remarks.  Vodafone rose 0.3 percent to 194.65 pence in London trading
at 3:08 p.m. The shares had gained 26 percent this year through
yesterday.  Verizon told analysts earlier this year that $100 billion
is a fair price for Vodafone’s 45 percent stake, people familiar
with the matter said at the time.  Vodafone Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford, who said he
was a “happy holder” of the asset in May, said today the
company’s strategy for its U.S. business hasn’t changed.  “The discussions we have are about the business primarily,
and the business continues to do perfectly well,” Halford said
of the board’s talks. “Over the years both sides have had
conversations about buying the other one out. It ebbs and
flows.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  