-- Volatility Tumbles From Currencies to Stocks on Growth Pledges
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-07-23T10:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/volatility-tumbles-from-currencies-to-stocks-on-growth-pledges.html
Measures of price swings in the
foreign-exchange, bond and equity markets dropped to the lowest
levels in about two months as policy makers from  China  to the
U.S. pledged to support global growth.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index declined
for a ninth consecutive day today. A gauge of swings in
Treasuries slid yesterday to the least since May 24 and the
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or  VIX (VIX) , which
measures options on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, fell to a
three-month low.  Volatility has waned since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told a congressional panel on July 17 that he hasn’t
put central-bank bond purchases “on a preset course” for
tapering and will adjust them based on economic data. Chinese
Premier  Li Keqiang  said the slowest economic growth policy
makers will tolerate is 7 percent, according to Beijing News
today. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  signaled on
July 4 he would continue to support the economy.  “Markets are taking the change in tone from the Fed as a
positive sign on growth and that’s suppressing volatility in
equities, which is spilling over into other assets,” said  Adam Cole , the London-based head of Group-of-10 currency strategy at
Royal Bank of Canada. “Unless you see a real change in tone,
whereby the Fed rhetoric is seen as bad news, then it’s probably
going to continue to be a negative environment for volatility.”  JPMorgan’s currency-market index, based on option premiums,
dropped to as low as 9.16 percent today, the least since May 14,
and down from a one-year high of 11.96 percent on June 24.  Price swings in Treasuries fell to 72.62 yesterday, the
least since May 24, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
MOVE Index. It climbed to 117.89 on July 5, the highest since
December 2010, and has averaged 100.38 over the past five years.
The VStoxx Index, which gauges the price of options on the Euro
Stoxx 50 Index, fell to 16.8, the lowest level in two months.  “Volatility is low but at any time it could explode
upward,” said  David Bloom , global head of currency strategy at
HSBC Holdings Plc in London. “It feels calm but I think people
are very wary of this calmness.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  