-- Warren Says Banks Using Enron Commodity Model Face Risk
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-07-23T17:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/warren-says-banks-using-enron-commodity-model-face-risk.html
Banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
may have adopted the model for commodity trading used by Enron
Corp., adding “more and more risk” to the financial system,
U.S. Senator  Elizabeth Warren  said.  JPMorgan,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are
among lenders whose commodity trading is in jeopardy as the
 Federal Reserve  reconsiders letting banks ship crude oil and run
warehouses for industrial metals. Warren, a Massachusetts
Democrat, spoke today at a Senate subcommittee hearing on bank
ownership of metal and energy assets. Enron, once the world’s
biggest trader of power and natural gas, collapsed in 2001.  Moves by banks at the start of the last decade into broader
areas of physical commodity trading and assets “suggests this
movie won’t end well,” Warren said during a question-and-answer
session at the hearing.  Banks and regulators probably will be called to testify at
a second hearing on their role in the commodity industry, and
the Federal Reserve will need to be “more forthcoming” on
plans to rein in banks, Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat
and the subcommittee chairman, said at the hearing.  ‘Sprawling Enterprises’  Saule T. Omarova , a law professor with the University of
North Carolina at  Chapel Hill , said at the hearing that Enron
may have established the template for banks to expand in
physical raw materials. She called for a public debate on
commodity holdings of banks, which have “sprawling
enterprises” too difficult to monitor and regulate.  “It stretches regulatory capacity beyond its limits,”
Omarova said in an interview before the hearing. “No regulator
in the financial world can realistically, effectively manage all
the risks of an enterprise of financial activities, but also the
marketing of gas, oil, electricity and metals. How can one
banking regulator develop the expertise to know what’s going
on?”  At the hearing, Warren cited “dangers” posed by banks
trading in commodities because of “systemic risk” similar to
the financial meltdown in 2008 triggers by bad bets by lenders
in mortgage debt.  Enron’s traders used strategies with names like “Fat Boy”
and “Get Shorty” to create phantom congestion and artificially
raise prices in  California ’s energy markets. The manipulation
helped trigger the state’s electricity crisis of 2000 and 2001
that sent retail power prices to record highs and cut power to
millions of customers in the most populous U.S. state.  Federal Probe  A federal investigation found that Enron made large-volume,
rapid-fire trades on its own electronic platform to trigger
price moves that all traders could see without knowing the
cause. The transactions made through EnronOnline influenced
daily price indexes used in physical gas contracts and for
settling financial derivatives such as swaps.  The company filed for bankruptcy in 2001 following
revelations that it used off-balance-sheet vehicles to hide
billions of dollars in losses and inflate its stock price.  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank , is near an agreement with
the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  to settle allegations
that the lender rigged electricity markets, the Wall Street
Journal reported last week.  The commission last week ordered Barclays Plc and four
former traders to pay a combined $487.9 million in fines and
penalties for engaging in what the agency said was a scheme to
manipulate energy markets in the western U.S. from November 2006
to December 2008. London-based Barclays said it would
“vigorously” contest the penalties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  