-- Why Tight U.S. Labor Markets Are Here to Stay
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2013-07-23T22:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/why-tight-u-s-labor-markets-are-here-to-stay.html
The outlook for the labor market
remains bleak. Older Americans are holding on to their jobs
longer, limiting openings for newcomers, and employers are
cutting costs by extending working hours and paying overtime,
rather than hiring.  Layoffs and discharges remain low. Voluntary departures
have risen a bit, but are still sluggish as workers stay put in
uncertain times. Meanwhile,  job openings  have risen rapidly
after a collapse, though new hires have increased much more
slowly. After firing so many people in the  recession  and since,
employers are waiting to hire the right people with the right
skills.  Declining  real wages  also discourage many from entering the
 labor force , as does the likelihood that if they do find work,
it is often at lower pay. Surveys show that of those out of work
six months or more, a third earn less when they find a new
job. Those out of work for extended periods also tend to lose
their skills.  People out of the labor force for nondemographic reasons
react to the push of few job prospects and the pull of
alternative forms of compensation. If physicians certify job-related disabilities and judges approve them, people can draw
disability benefits until they reach normal  retirement age , when
they are eligible for Social Security retirement benefits.  Government Benefits  In June, almost 11 million people collected disability
benefits, up from 3 million in 1970. In addition, disability
benefits are higher than earlier in relation to wages. Many
states try to shift people off the welfare and Medicaid rolls,
which are the states’ financial responsibility, toward
disability, which is paid for by the federal government. Some
unions encourage their unemployed members to apply for
disability coverage.  In a related area, the percentage of the population on
welfare rose to 4.7 percent in 1990 from 1.4 percent in
1950. That changed after workfare, requiring able-bodied people
drawing welfare to hold jobs or be in job-training programs, was
introduced by various states, and later adopted by the federal
government. The number of those on the welfare rolls fell
overnight, to 2.1 percent of the population in 2000.  It remains to be seen if the recent decrease in maximum
 unemployment  benefits to 73 weeks from 99 weeks will spur job-seeking. Meanwhile, drawing Social Security benefits has become
more attractive. The payments have been adjusted for cost of
living increases since 1975. Because of the lack of inflation,
there were no increases in 2010 and 2011, but there was a 3.6
percent adjustment in 2012 and a 1.7 percent revision this year.  The number of recipients of the Supplemental Nutrition
Assistance Program, known as  food stamps , jumped to 47.8 million
in December from 28.2 million in 2008, a 70 percent increase.
The  unemployment rate  peaked at 10 percent in October 2009. SNAP
keeps growing, however, as states make it easier for people to
apply because the federal government pays the cost.  That cost rose to $74.6 billion last year from $30.8
billion in 2007. In 2006, 18.7 percent of SNAP households
qualified through an easier screening program that doesn’t check
assets, much like the “no doc” subprime mortgage loans of
yesteryear. In 1975, 8 percent of Americans received food
stamps, today, 15 percent do. The number of people below the
 poverty line  rose to 48.5 million in 2011, from 37.3 million in
2007, but that accounted for just half the rise in SNAP
enrollment.  Job Market  With all these government benefits, many people find
they’re financially better off at home and out of the labor
force than out looking for a job or working at  low wages ,
considering commuting costs, child-care outlays and other job
and job-hunting expenses.  My company’s research has found that, based on post-World
War II history, it should take 3.2 percent real gross domestic
product growth just to keep the unemployment rate steady --
meaning that at the current growth of about 2 percent, the
unemployment rate would rise more than one percentage point a
year and now would be 12 percent. Instead, it was 7.6 percent in
June. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , among others,
has struggled to explain why the unemployment rate has declined
in this recovery while economic growth is so slow.  There is, however, a logical explanation for the huge
differences between the actual  unemployment rate  and the higher
expected rates: a big drop in the participation rate. As
discussed earlier in this series, the decline in the labor
participation rate to 63.5 percent in June from its February
2000 peak of 67.3 percent means there are 9.5 million fewer
people in the labor force today than if the participation rate
had remained at 67.3 percent.  With the number of people currently employed, that would
push the unemployment rate to 13 percent. So the current low
unemployment rate relative to the historical expectation appears
to be the result of the decline in the labor participation rate.  Many of the 2 million people who have left the labor force
in the past two decades for nondemographic reasons will probably
never re-enter. Yes, some youths may decide that college is a
poor investment and will get trained and enter the labor force
as skilled craftsmen. Lower  unemployment benefits  may spur
others to seek work.  Nevertheless, many may continue to live without jobs,
relying on welfare and disability benefits. Others may continue
to be discouraged by weak job markets. Many have lost their job
skills due to prolonged unemployment, while others who were
involved in residential construction and other shrunken trades
are too old to learn new occupations. Unlike Bernanke, I believe
that putting people back to work isn’t simply a matter of
creating more aggregate demand. There are also meaningful
structural problems.  Robust Growth  Still, if those 2 million don’t re-enter the labor force,
it probably won’t impede robust real GDP annual growth of about
3.5 percent once the age of deleveraging is completed in about
five years. As discussed in the first part of this series, with
2.5 percent annual productivity growth, employment would need to
increase 1 percent annually. That’s about 1.44 million more
workers a year.  But the working-age population in future years is projected
by the  Bureau of Labor Statistics  to rise about 2.2 million a
year. With the current participation rate of 63.5 percent, that
would produce 1.4 million new job-seekers, about equal to new
labor demand, assuming these new entrants’ skills match those in
demand.  Most of the decline in the labor force participation rate
since its 2000 peak was due to the aging postwar babies. The
rest resulted from poor job markets, which encouraged many
youths to stay in school. Others -- young and old -- were
discouraged by miserable employment prospects and drawn to
attractive unemployment, welfare and disability benefits. But
despite continuing structural unemployment problems, new
entrants should keep labor markets well-supplied, even when
faster economic growth resumes.  (A. Gary Shilling is a Bloomberg View columnist and
president of A. Gary Shilling & Co. He is the author of “The Age
of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies for a Decade of Slow
Growth and Deflation.” This is the third in a three-part series.
Read Parts  1  and  2 .)  To contact the writer of this column:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 