-- WikiLeaks Thriller to Open Toronto Filmfest in September
-- B y   S t e v e n   F r a n k
-- 2013-07-23T17:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/wikileaks-thriller-to-open-toronto-filmfest-in-september.html
“The Fifth Estate,” a dramatic
thriller about WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, will open the
38th Toronto International Film Festival in September.  The film, directed by Bill Condon (“Dreamgirls,” “Gods
and Monsters”) and starring U.K. actor Benedict Cumberbatch
(“Star Trek Into Darkness”) as Assange, is among the 40 new
world premieres revealed by organizers today at a press
conference in Toronto.  “Fifth Estate” will join John Wells’ “August: Osage
County,” an adaptation of Tracy Lett’s Pulitzer-winning play
about a dysfunctional Midwest family that stars  Meryl Streep ,
 Julia Roberts  and Ewan McGregor.  Other world premiers include Steve McQueen’s “12 Years a
Slave,” starring Chiwetel Ejiofor,  Michael Fassbender  and  Brad Pitt ; Justin Chadwick’s biopic “Mandela: Long Walk to
Freedom,” starring Idris Elba, whose work includes the
portrayal of  “Stringer” Bell on the HBO TV series “The
Wire”; and “Prisoners,” directed by Canadian Denis Villeneuve
and starring Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal, a thriller about
the abduction of two young girls.  “We don’t like to boast, but it’s a pretty great lineup,”
TIFF Artistic Director Cameron Bailey said at the press
conference.  Oscar Signs  TIFF , which runs Sept. 5-15, screens more than 330 films
from more than 60 countries each year, including big box-office
thrillers and art-house fare. Last year’s edition had 140 world
premiers and was attended by more than 4,000 industry delegates,
according to TIFF.  The festival can be a gauge of a film’s commercial and
critical chances. In 2008, “ Slumdog Millionaire ,” about an
Indian boy’s rise from poverty to game-show riches, won the
People’s Choice Award in Toronto before collecting eight Oscars
including Best Picture. Two years later, “The King’s Speech”
did the same at TIFF and garnered four Academy Awards. Last
year, the most popular film was “Silver Linings Playbook,” for
which  Jennifer Lawrence  won a best actress Oscar.  TIFF organizers announced in May that Godfrey Reggio’s
“Visitors” will have its world premier on Sept. 8 at a viewing
with the live performance of 65 members of the Toronto Symphony
Orchestra. The film by the director of “Koyaanisqatsi” is
Reggio’s fourth collaboration with composer  Philip Glass , TIFF
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Frank in Toronto at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  