-- Twitter Expands Ad Tool for Marketers Seeking TV Viewers
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-07-23T19:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/twitter-expands-ad-tool-for-marketers-seeking-tv-viewers.html
Twitter Inc., the microblogging
site, expanded a service that lets advertisers direct promotions
to viewers who tweet about shows they’re watching on television.  The ad-targeting service, first introduced in May for a
limited number of marketers, is now available to all those
running national campaigns in the U.S., the San Francisco-based
company  said  on its blog today. Twitter is courting television
advertisers in its bid to reach $1 billion in sales by 2014.  Chief Executive Officer  Dick Costolo  has also struck deals
with content owners, including  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , the  National
Basketball Association  and Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN, to bring
video clips to Twitter’s site that can be displayed with ads.
The TV-targeting tool introduced today lets advertisers identify
viewers of a certain program or ad by analyzing words contained
in their tweets and display text-based promotional messages at
the top of their Twitter feed.  “In real time, we track where they are running their
ads,” Deb Roy, Twitter’s chief media scientist, said in an
interview last week. “Then we do semantic analysis and
determine all the people who are tweeting about that episode.”  The technology powering the new tool was first developed by
Bluefin Labs, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based startup bought by
Twitter in February. Bluefin was co-founded by Roy, who is also
a professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  Twitter is “essentially a social soundtrack, a
synchronized conversation with what’s happening in the world,”
Roy said.  After watching coordinated ads on TV and Twitter, users
were 58 percent more likely to purchase products and services
and 27 percent more likely to mention brands such as Holiday
Inns Inc. and Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc on the social
site, Twitter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  