-- World Bank’s Kim Outlines Steps to Refocus Staff to End Poverty
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-07-23T23:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/world-bank-s-kim-outlines-steps-to-refocus-staff-to-end-poverty.html
World Bank President Jim Yong Kim,
less than 13 months after taking office, outlined steps to
change the culture of the Washington-based bank, make staff less
risk averse and improve the delivery of aid to achieve its goal
of ending extreme poverty.  In an e-mail to staff obtained by  Bloomberg News , Kim said
the lender will undergo a series of organization changes
including instituting a set of “global practices,” installing
a new framework for country partnerships that shifts the focus
“from instruments of our engagements to the impacts,” and
making a “series of improvements in areas of leadership, people
and talent.”  He also said the bank needs to make “significant progress
on culture.” Under the new system, employees would be
encouraged to “not let excessive risk-aversion get in the way
of supporting high-risk/high-reward operations with potentially
transformational results.”  Kim, the former president of  Dartmouth College , laid out
plans to refocus the organization based on feedback from the
World Bank’s staff of about 15,000. Earlier this year, Kim set a
goal of ending extreme poverty around the world by 2030 and lift
incomes of the 40 percent poorest.  World Bank  spokesman David
Theis confirmed that Kim sent an e-mail to staff today.  “It was clear from staff input that there are myriad
obstacles -- some cultural, some procedural -- to doing our best
work and achieving our full potential,” Kim said.  “So many of you told me that we have yet to fulfill our
potential,” Kim said in the e-mail. “We agreed that if we are
to do our part in ending extreme poverty and boosting shared
prosperity, we need to change the way we do business and become
more effective, more efficient, and better mobilize our
knowledge across the institution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  