-- Crude Rises as China Pledges Growth Amid Weakening Dollar
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-07-23T20:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/wti-crude-drops-for-second-day-on-fed-speculation.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
as  China ’s premier pledged to defend the country’s growth rate
and as the dollar weakened against the euro.  Prices gained 0.3 percent after Beijing News said Premier
 Li Keqiang  recently told economists that 7 percent is the
“bottom line” for the nation’s pace of expansion. The dollar
fell to a one-month low against the euro and U.S. crude
inventories slid to the fewest in six months in a Bloomberg
survey before a government report tomorrow.  “China is going to lock in 7 percent growth, and it should
be supportive for the oil market,” said  Phil Flynn , senior
market analyst at the Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “A lot of
trading seems to be dollar related right now.”  WTI for September delivery advanced 29 cents to settle at
$107.23 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The volume
of all futures traded was 9.9 percent below the 100-day average
for the time of day at 4:45 p.m. Front-month futures settled at
$108.05 on July 19, the highest level since March 19, 2012.
Prices have advanced 11 percent this month and are up 17 percent
this year.  Futures were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  said that U.S. crude stockpiles dropped 1.44 million
barrels last week. The September contract increased 38 cents to
$107.32 at 4:45 p.m. in electronic trading on the Nymex.  Brent Futures  Brent for September settlement gained 27 cents, or 0.3
percent, to end the session at $108.42 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 14 percent below
the 100-day average. The European benchmark’s premium to WTI was
little changed at $1.19 a barrel from yesterday’s $1.21. WTI
rose above Brent on July 19 for the first time since 2010.  Growth at a pace slower than  7 percent  won’t be accepted
because China needs to achieve a moderately prosperous society
by 2020, according to a commentary published July 21 by the
official Xinhua News Agency. China is the world’s second-largest
oil consuming country, after the U.S.  The dollar fell as much as 0.4 percent to $1.3239 per euro,
down from yesterday’s $1.3186. A weaker dollar increases oil’s
investment appeal.  U.S. crude stockpiles probably slipped by 2.8 million
barrels to 364.2 million last week, the lowest level since
January, according to the median of 12 analyst responses in a
Bloomberg survey before an Energy Information Administration
report tomorrow. Supplies may have decreased for a fourth week,
the longest stretch of declines since August.  U.S. Stockpiles  The market is “waiting for the inventory report,” said
Jeff Grossman, president of New York-based BRG Brokerage and a
 New York Mercantile Exchange  floor trader.  The industry-funded API collects information on a voluntary
basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly
survey.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  forecast WTI’s discount to Brent
will grow amid a U.S. Gulf Coast supply glut.  WTI will probably average $8 to $9 a barrel below Brent in
2014 as the U.S. Gulf Coast becomes “increasingly saturated”
with light, sweet crude because of shale projects, Goldman Sachs
said in an e-mailed report today.  ‘Sudden Repositioning’  “A sudden repositioning as the market loses confidence in
the current WTI strength could therefore put substantial
downside pressure on WTI-Brent spreads over the short run,”
Stefan Wieler, a Goldman analyst in  New York , said in the report
dated yesterday.  The gap between the two benchmarks has narrowed as improved
pipeline networks and the use of rail links eased a North
American supply glut created by rising production of crude from
shale formations. WTI traded at a discount of as much as $23.44
a barrel in February.  Crude fell earlier as half the economists surveyed July
18-22 by Bloomberg said the  Federal Reserve  will trim monthly
bond buying to $65 billion from $85 billion in September. The
figure was up from 44 percent in last month’s poll. The central
bank will probably halt the asset purchases in the second
quarter of next year, according to half of the economists.  “Some people are anticipating that the Fed will cut back
on its stimulus and it may be providing a bit of a headwind to
the market,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The spread and the
WTI market are a little overextended.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
September was 22 percent, compared with 23 percent on yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 512,144
contracts as of 4:45 p.m. It totaled 581,771 contracts
yesterday, 12 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.84 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  