-- WTI Crude Falls; Goldman Sees Discount to Brent Widening
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-07-23T12:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/wti-trades-near-three-day-low-u-s-crude-supplies-seen-falling.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
dropped a second day as weaker-than-forecast U.S. economic data
raised concern that growth will slow in the world’s biggest
consumer of oil.  Futures declined as much as 1.1 percent in  New York , having
lost the most in more than a week yesterday as U.S. home sales
unexpectedly fell. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecast WTI’s
discount to Brent will widen amid the glut of oil being
transported to the Gulf Coast. Crude stockpiles probably shrank
to a six-month low last week, according to a survey before
official data tomorrow.  “WTI was overbought,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst
at VTB Capital in London. “Yesterday’s U.S. housing data was
negative for sentiment.”  September delivery WTI declined as much as $1.14 to $105.80
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $106.28 as of 1:07 p.m. in London. The
volume of all futures traded was 4 percent above the 100-day
average. The August contract settled 1.1 percent lower at
$106.91 when it expired yesterday.  Brent for September settlement gained 2 cents to $108.17 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade was at a premium of $1.88 to WTI,
compared with yesterday’s close of $1.21.  Crude Supplies  Brent’s premium to WTI expanded amid seasonal maintenance
work at oilfields in the  North Sea . Output from the Buzzard
field is about 15,000 barrels a day less than normal, at 185,000
barrels a day, according to two people familiar with the matter
who asked not to be identified.  The North Sea grade fell below WTI in  intraday trading  on
July 19 for the first time since August 2010, and again
yesterday, without settling as the cheaper of the two. The
spread has narrowed as improved pipeline networks and the use of
rail links eased the North American supply glut created by
rising production from shale formations. WTI traded at a
discount of as much as $23.44 a barrel in February.  WTI will probably average $8 to $9 a barrel below Brent in
2014 as the U.S.  Gulf Coast  becomes “increasingly saturated”
with light, sweet crude because of shale projects, Goldman Sachs
said in an e-mailed report today.  Further Upside  “The market is still positioned for further WTI-Brent
upside, however, given the potential upside for WTI-Brent, the
risk-reward of these positions now looks a lot less appealing,”
Stefan Wieler, a Goldman Sachs analyst in New York, said in the
report dated yesterday. “A sudden repositioning as the market
loses confidence in the current WTI strength could therefore put
substantial downside pressure on WTI-Brent spreads over the
short run.”  U.S.  crude inventories  probably slipped by 2.5 million
barrels last week to 364.5 million barrels, the lowest level
since January, according to the Bloomberg survey before
tomorrow’s report from the Energy Information Administration.
Stockpiles may have decreased for a fourth week, the longest run
of declines since August.  Gasoline stockpiles  probably climbed by 1.5 million barrels
last week, according to the median estimate of nine analysts
surveyed. Distillate inventories, including heating oil and
diesel, are also expected to have gained by 1.5 million.  Home Sales  The  American Petroleum Institute  is scheduled to release
separate supply data today at 4:30 p.m. in  Washington . The
industry group collects information on a voluntary basis from
operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly survey.  Previously owned home sales fell 1.2 percent in June to an
annualized rate 5.08 million, the National Association of
Realtors reported yesterday. The median forecast of economists
in a Bloomberg survey had called for an advance to a 5.26
million pace.  WTI’s 14-day relative strength index remained below 70 for
a second day, snapping an 11-day run above that threshold
yesterday. It was about 64.9 today, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A reading above that level typically means gains
have been excessive and may no longer be sustainable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  