-- 
‘Slow Poison’ Scars Indian Lungs as Asbestos Firms Sell $7 Roofs for Slum

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-06-07T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/-slow-poison-chokes-indian-workers-feeding-7-slum-roof-demand.html
One thing Rajendra Pevekar remembers
from falling asleep on his father’s chest as a child is the
smell of burnt plastic and the shiny specks of dust sticking to
his clothes.  What Pevekar didn’t know was that the dust had a name --
asbestos -- and a record of wrecking the lungs of those who
inhale it. Only last year did he draw a connection between the
fiber from the auto-parts factory where his father worked
sweeping the floor, the man’s early death, the  disease  that left
his mother crippled and his own shortness of breath.  “This is a slow poison,” Pevekar said in an interview at
his home in  Mumbai ’s working class neighborhood of Ghatkopar.
“It destroys your lungs and you don’t even know it.”  Pevekar’s mother was among the first Indians last December
to get paid about 700,000 rupees ($16,000) -- more than 10 times
her son’s annual income -- from a Manchester, England-based
 trust  established by factory owner Turner & Newall Plc. The
payment was compensation for asbestosis, an occupational disease
first  identified  in the U.K. in 1906. Last month, another 40
workers received payouts, bringing the year’s tally to a record
70 million rupees.  The lessons learned by richer nations like the U.K. and
 Germany , which banned asbestos in factories decades ago, are
slow to take hold in  India , where demand for a sturdy material
to make roofs for millions of slum-dwellers serving the world’s
second fastest-growing major economy has overpowered concerns
about worker safety.  Roofs Needed  India is the  largest importer  of asbestos, according to the
United Nations Commodity Trade Statistics Database. Most of it
goes into making corrugated roofing sheets that sell for as
little as 300 rupees ($7). More than 100,000 people in India are
employed by companies producing the material, according to the
 Asbestos Cement Producers Association , an industry lobby group.  “It is totally outrageous,” said Gopal Krishna, founder
of the  Ban Asbestos Network of India . “We’ve known that this
stuff is deadly for many years and the government is not banning
it. In fact, they are making asbestos artificially cheaper by
giving incentives.”  A 15 percent duty is payable on asbestos imports, according
to the Ministry of Commerce & Industry. The tariff, which stood
at 78 percent in 1995, has been gradually cut over the past
decade, Krishna said. Imports totaled 322,200 metric tons in
2009, UN data shows. Asbestos mining is allowed for permit
holders, though the government stopped granting licenses in 1986.  Homes will be unaffordable for 38 million families in India
by 2030 based on projected market prices, McKinsey & Co.
 estimated  last year. The need for cheap roofing and piping
material is fueling asbestos shipments from  Russia , Brazil and
Canada, where the use of the raw material is restricted in
Canadian factories.  Pawned Jewelry  Pevekar’s troubles began when his 71-year-old mother,
Indira, developed a debilitating shortness of breath in 2003, 11
years after her husband died from an ailment diagnosed as
bronchial asthma. Indira has been hospitalized more than six
times since then, recalls Pevekar, who ferries her to medical
appointments at least once a month.  Bills began to mount.  “We pawned jewelry, borrowed from friends, relatives and
money lenders to pay for all these expenses,” Pevekar said.  That held the family back, forcing him and his brother to
stay in the same slum house where they grew up and continue to
care for Indira, who is partially bedridden and can’t use the
bathroom without help.  Pevekar said he came to understand the connection between
his mother’s woes, his father’s death and his own pulmonary
problems in February 2010, when he attended an event organized
by a non-profit organization to inform workers and their
children of what is called  secondary  exposure to asbestos.  Natural Fiber  “Before that, I had no idea,” he said. “At the event, I
asked the organizers to check my mother for asbestosis.”  Indira and another worker’s wife were the first two women
to receive compensation from Turner in India, according to
Pralhad Malvadkar, head of the Occupational Health and Safety
Centre, which organized the event Pevekar attended.  Asbestos is the name given to six natural  fibers  about
1,200 times smaller than a strand of human hair that can be
woven like fabric. Their resistance to fire, heat and chemicals
makes them well suited to the construction and auto industries.  The fibrous mineral has been used for the last 140 years in
construction. Evidence of its harmful effects began appearing a
century ago and national bans were first enacted in the 1970s.  Bruise Lungs  Harm occurs when the asbestos fibers are inhaled. They
bruise the lung tissue, leaving behind scars that accumulate and
cripple the organ’s ability to process oxygen, said  Arthur Frank ,
a professor of public health at Drexel University in
Philadelphia.  “If you think of the lung as a balloon that expands and
contracts, it’s as if the capacity of the balloon is reduced,”
Frank, who specializes in asbestos-related diseases, said in a
telephone interview. Chest X-rays identify the scars with
 characteristic  squiggle marks.  The fibers can also lead to the development of lung cancers,
including a rare malignancy of the lining of the lungs and
abdomen known as mesothelioma, which often causes stabbing chest
 pains  and can be fatal within 18 months.  “Even a day or a month at an asbestos factory can do you
in,” said Frank, adding that there is no safe minimum level of
exposure. It can take 20 years or more for symptoms to appear,
according to the U.S. National Institutes of Health’s  website .  Rockets and Millionaires  India has ranked behind  China  as the briskest-growing major
economy for much of the past decade, sending rockets into space
and giving rise to a class of entrepreneurs and billionaires.
The speed of industrialization has outpaced improvements in
infant survival, infrastructure and workplace conditions.  “It’s a difficult issue,” said David Heymann, chairman of
the U.K. Health Protection Agency. “Some countries say: ‘We’re
developing just like you did during the industrial revolution.’
The difference is that, now, we know what asbestos does.”  India’s use of the material since the 1980s is equal to the
amount used by the U.K. during its entire industrial history,
according to estimates by the International Ban Asbestos
Secretariat, a London-based umbrella group of non-profit
organizations.  As many as 55 countries including  Japan  and all members of
the European Union have banned asbestos in factories, buildings
and car parts. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
selectively  bans  the material in products such as spray-on paint
and pipe insulation.  Mine in  Quebec   Canada  was India’s  second-largest  overseas supplier of
asbestos in 2009, trailing Russia, according to the United
Nations Commodity Trade Statistics database.  The Quebec government approved in April a C$58 million ($60
million) loan guarantee to a group of Canadian and Indian
investors, enabling them to expand production at the Jeffrey
Mine, said Jolyane Pronovost, a spokeswoman for Quebec’s
economic development ministry. The assistance is conditional on
the investor group securing C$25 million in additional financing
by July 1, she said.  To secure the loan guarantee, the owners of the Jeffrey
mine had to commit to annual checks by an independent auditor of
their clients to ensure that the white, or  chrysotile , form of
asbestos is being used safely and meets Quebec standards,
Pronovost said.  “Our position hasn’t changed,” she said in a May 31
telephone interview. “We support the safe use of chrysotile.”  Supply Stalwart  The decision, opposed by public health groups including the
Canadian Cancer Society, may allow one of Canada’s last
remaining asbestos mines to produce 250,000 metric tons annually,
said one of the investors, Baljit Chadha, an India-born
businessman who made his fortune trading nuts and dried fruit.  At that capacity, the mine would produce more than an
eighth of global asbestos production, according to 2010
estimates from the  U.S. Geological Survey . About 40 percent of
the mineral may end up in India, and sales will generate $130
million in revenue, Chadha estimated.  “I’m going into this with an absolutely clear
conscience,” said Chadha, who disputes the risks asbestos poses,
citing an open letter from six European and North American
doctors published last year which said the chrysotile that
emerges from the mine isn’t dangerous for workers as long as
it’s “properly controlled.”  All forms of asbestos are carcinogenic, according to the
 World Health Organization . The Geneva-based UN agency estimates
that one person dies every 5 minutes from an asbestos-related
disease somewhere in the world, causing 107,000  deaths  annually.  Canada’s Natural Resources Ministry declined to comment on
asbestos exports to India and deferred questions about the
Jeffrey mine expansion to the Quebec provincial government.  Tainted Water  While living under an asbestos roof may be less harmful
than working with it in a factory, the risk isn’t negligible,
said Drexel University’s Frank. In the monsoon season, rainwater
can seep through the roof, mixing with the fiber. Data on the
dangers from drinking asbestos-tainted water isn’t conclusive,
though some studies have found a small increase in deaths from
cancers of the stomach and colon among people who ingested it,
according to the  U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .  Pevekar installed a plastic sheet under his roof last year
after learning about the risks of asbestos, stopping tainted
water from dripping onto his sleeping children like it had for
years before.  Giant Mixing Vats  In India,  government regulation  about asbestos exposure is
lax, said Jagdish Parikh, a retired deputy director of the
 National Institute of Occupational Health  in the west Indian
city of Ahmedabad. Factory owners often don’t ensure that
pollutant levels are below regulatory limits and inspections are
infrequent, he said.  While workers receive regular medical check-ups by a
company-approved doctor, the reports aren’t routinely given to
employees, who may not be informed that that they are suffering
from an occupational disease, said Malvadkar at the Occupational
Health and Safety Centre. The claim was repeated by more than 10
current and former laborers at asbestos factories in Mumbai and
Ahmedabad.  At  Everest Industries Ltd. (EVI) ’s roof factory in the village of
Lakhmapur, a four-hour drive from Mumbai, cement, asbestos,
water and materials including discarded denim fiber are mixed in
giant vats. The cavernous shop floor, large enough to
accommodate two jumbo jets, has no visible exhaust system.  No Exhaust  “It is a well ventilated area as per the requirement,”
said K.K. Rameshan, the plant’s general manager. “No exhaust
system is needed here.”  About two dozen workers whose clothes carried traces of
gray dust were seen operating machinery, cleaning, and handling
raw materials and finished roof sheets during a factory tour
last month. Only two of the workers were seen working with a
face mask. One was assigned to the “asbestos room,” where 110-
pound sacks from  Russia  and  Kazakhstan  are stacked around a
machine with green, peeling paint that crushes chunks of the
mineral for mixing with cement.  “The entire unopened bag is put into the machine and there
is no exposure to air,” said Rameshan, shouting to be heard
over the rumble of machinery as he led visitors through the
factory. “It’s completely safe.”  The plant’s in-house doctor, Dinesh Thakare, said workers
get their lung function assessed as part of a broader checkup,
and chest X-rays are conducted every three years. So far, he
hasn’t seen any sign of asbestosis, he said.  “The reason is this is a very slow-progressing disease, it
takes 15 to 20 years, and in these kind of modern units all
kinds of precautions are taken,” said Thakare, who keeps a copy
of the Encyclopedia of Occupational Health and Safety, a  4,000-
page  reference book, on his desk.  `So Shocking'  Once workers suffer health problems, the process of seeking
damages is arduous. Patients need an official certificate from
the government-run  Employee State Insurance Corporation  to be
eligible for disability compensation. Only 54 workers in
asbestos-related industries received compensation from the
agency up to 2009, says Madhumita Dutta from the Ban Asbestos
Network in the southern city of  Chennai . She didn’t have an
estimate for 2010.  “It’s shocking that so few have been compensated, given
that hundreds of thousands of people have been working in this
industry for decades,” Dutta said in a May 30 interview.  Compensation is often elusive because proving that exposure
at work is the direct cause of disease is difficult, said  P.K.
Nag , director of the National Institute of Occupational Health,
a government agency that studies work-related diseases. Asbestos
“is harmful, there is no doubt about that,” Nag said.  Job Threat  Some employees don’t apply for fear of losing their job.
Those who do seek redress are often frustrated by bureaucratic
hurdles, said Raghunath Manwar, a union activist who is trying
to get compensation for workers making roofing sheets and other
asbestos products at a factory owned by Gujarat Composites Ltd.
in Ahmedabad.  “I have been going to the government office for the last
five years, but they keep sending me back,” said Chinnappan
Chinnakannu, 57, one of the workers who Manwar is helping.  A request to interview Gujarat Composites managers made in
person outside its gated compound was refused by five staff
members, who said that asbestos is safe and poses no risk to
workers. They declined to allow access to the factory or give
their names.  ‘Delaying Tactic’  “We maintain all the safety procedures that are
required,” said D.K. Dutta, the factory’s general manager, in a
May 17 telephone interview. He declined to elaborate on safety
measures.  Factory worker Chinnakannu doesn’t hold his employer
completely to blame. It took two years for his case to go to a
medical board appointed by the state of Gujarat, where Ahmedabad
is located, he said. That’s in part because Manwar’s group had
to file a request under the Right to Information  Act , the Indian
equivalent of the Freedom of Information Act.  Chinnakannu gathered medical records according to the
government board’s guidelines, only to be told the chest X-rays
and lung function reports weren’t presented the right way, he
said. The medical board has heard his case three times over the
past three years, he said.  “They tell you how to conduct the tests and then don’t
accept the reports,” Manwar said in an interview. “It’s just a
delaying tactic.”  Avoiding Insolvency  That means Indian companies that use asbestos, including
Everest, Gujarat Composites,  Visaka Industries Ltd. (VSKI) , and
 Hyderabad Industries Ltd. (HYI)  don’t face the same kinds of
disability claims that pushed Turner & Newall into insolvency,
according to Dutta of the Ban Asbestos network. U.S. auto-parts
maker  Federal-Mogul Corp. (FDML) , which acquired Turner & Newall, filed
for  bankruptcy protection  in 2001. A judge ruled four years
later that the company might face $9.4 billion in death and
injury claims triggered by asbestos-related conditions.  A bill pending in the upper house of India’s parliament
proposes a ban on the use, trade and manufacture of the material.
While it’s supported by scientists and health officials, it
lacks the backing of any major political party.  That means it’s unlikely to be passed into law anytime soon,
said lawmaker  Vijay Jawaharlal Darda . Darda, who is a member of
the ruling Congress party, introduced the measure after more
asbestos companies tried to set up factories in his home state
of Maharashtra.  India’s Ministry of Health and Family Welfare deferred all
questions to its labor counterpart, saying the health of factory
workers doesn’t come under its purview. S.R. Joshi, deputy
director general, and Vandana Sharma, deputy secretary for
industrial safety and health at the Ministry of Labour and
Employment, declined to be interviewed.  ‘Looming Time Bomb’  “I will have to study the impact,” Environment Minister
Jairam Ramesh said when asked whether asbestos should be banned.
“I haven’t been able to put my mind to it yet.” Ramesh, who
has held the post for two years, declined to comment further.  India faces a “looming time bomb” of serious health
problems in workers because companies aren’t penalized for
compromising on employee safety and most doctors don’t know how
to diagnose occupational diseases, said Laurie Kazan-Allen,
coordinator of the International Ban Asbestos Secretariat.  The government requires factory operators to ensure that
workers aren’t exposed to air containing more than 1 fiber per
cubic centimeter. That’s 10 times the maximum prescribed limit
by the  U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration .  Employers in India must provide gloves, helmets and masks
for workers, though wearing them isn’t mandatory. Employees must
receive regular medical checkups, including X-rays and lung
function tests, and the government notified of patients with an
occupational disease.  Company Onus  “The onus is on the company to declare every case and the
government doesn’t independently monitor the worker’s health,”
said Parikh, the retired occupational health agency official.  Some Indian villagers aren’t waiting for legislative
changes to begin protecting their communities.  Clashes between protesters and police erupted in December
and January in a village called Chainpur, in the eastern Indian
state of Bihar, as local residents blocked the entrance to a
plant being built by  Balmukund Cement & Roofings Ltd.  to make
asbestos roof sheets. The Kolkata-based company stands by the
claim made in its proposal to the state government that the land
is barren, said P.S. Ray, a project director. The majority of
villagers support the factory, he said.  Red walls that surround the factory under construction
border wheat fields and are within 500 meters (547 yards) of a
primary school and hundreds of straw-hut homes.  Protest Injuries  “The government thinks we are so desperate for jobs that
we will accept a factory that will poison our children,” said
Saraswati Devi, 50, a landless farm-laborer, pointing to a cast
on her right arm she said was the result of a police beating.  Pevekar has started taking part in demonstrations against
asbestos manufacturing in Mumbai.  “This needs to stop,” he said. “I don’t want anyone to
go through what we went through.”  There isn’t one country, corporation or system to blame,
said Heymann of the U.K. health agency, who was assistant
director-general of the WHO for  health security  and environment
until 2009.  “It’s not always the ‘big bad North’,” he said in an
interview. “Sometimes these countries should be protecting
their people and to protect them, there are certain things they
should be requiring of these companies.”  ‘Darling Son’  Pevekar was 3 years old when he, his mother and his four
siblings moved to a slum in Mumbai, where their father had found
a job sweeping the floors at the Hindustan Ferodo factory,
Turner’s Indian subsidiary that made asbestos brake pads for
cars and scooters. By sharing a single room measuring 9-feet-by-
11-feet they all risked inhaling fine dust particles from the
elder Pevekar’s clothes.  “Rajendra was the darling son,” said Indira, Pevekar’s
mother. “He would fall asleep lying on his father’s chest,
hugging him.”  Pevekar isn’t sure what price he may have to pay for his
exposure in childhood, he said. He can’t climb more than two
flights of steps, has to walk slowly, and said he has to settle
for a job as a butcher in a Mumbai suburb rather than look for
better paid work in the city. The crowded trains into Mumbai
compound his breathing problem, he said.  “There is no peace of mind,” Pevekar said, choking back
tears. “I worry about living long enough and well enough to
take care of my children. I want our lives back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at   j.gale@bloomberg.net 
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  