-- 
Canadian Stocks Fall for a Sixth Day as RIM, Gold Shares Retreat

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-06-07T20:58:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/macarthur-minerals-quadra-fnx-saputo-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks fell for a sixth day
as  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  retreated after an analyst downgrade
and gold stocks slipped as concern over the European debt crisis
lessened.  BlackBerry maker Research In Motion declined 3.2 percent
after Morgan Keegan & Co. reduced its rating on the shares to
“market perform” from “outperform.”  Kinross Gold Corp. (K) ,
 Canada ’s third-largest gold producer, declined 1.4 percent as
the metal retreated from a five-week high.  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , a
forest-products producer with operations in  China , sank 34
percent after short seller Carson Block said he will release new
research on the company.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index fell 35.74
points, or 0.3 percent, to 13,282.92 at 4 p.m. in Toronto after
rising as much as 0.6 percent. The Canadian benchmark index fell
in the last hour of trading as U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke , speaking in Atlanta, gave no hint of a new round of
stimulus even as economic growth remains slow.  “We’re all holding our breath here and hoping the worst is
over,” said  Barry Schwartz , a  money manager  at Baskin Financial
Services Inc. in Toronto, which oversees C$400 million ($411
million). “Any way you slice it, the stock market is cheap, so
it’s hard for me to imagine stocks are going to go lower.”  The S&P/TSX has dropped 4 percent in the last six days of
trading, erasing its gains for the year, as the U.S. reported an
increase in unemployment and crude futures slipped. Energy
companies make up 27 percent of Canadian stocks by market value,
according to Bloomberg data.  Precious Metals  Precious-metals producers fell after European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  indicated he endorsed measures to
encourage investors to buy new Greek debt.  Kinross declined 1.4 percent to C$15.07.  Eldorado Gold
Corp. (ELD) , which mines in China and  Turkey , dropped for a seventh
day, the longest streak since 2006, losing 2.3 percent to
C$14.16.  B2Gold Corp. (BTO) , which explores in  Latin America , surged 9.1
percent to C$3.61 after reporting drilling results from Uruguay
that it called “positive.” The shares touched an intraday
record of C$3.67.  Sino-Forest declined 34 percent to a four-year low of
C$4.05 after Block, the founder of Muddy Waters Research, said
he will release more research on the company “pretty soon.”
The new research will concern Sino-Forest’s accounting, its
majority stake in Greenheart Group Ltd. and its 2010 purchase of
Homix Ltd, Block said on a conference call.  Sino-Forest  Shares of the Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based
company have plunged 78 percent since June 1, the day before
Block asserted the company overstated its land holdings and
production. The company has denied doing so and has hired
accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to conduct its own
investigation.  Directory publisher  Yellow Media Inc. (YLO)  slumped 4.5 percent
to C$3.43 after closing at a record low yesterday. The shares
have tumbled 30 percent since May 17, when  San Francisco  banned
the unsolicited distribution of phone books.  Research In Motion declined 3.2 percent to C$36.92 after
 Tavis McCourt , an analyst at Morgan Keegan & Co., reduced his
rating on the shares to “market perform” from “outperform.”
In a note to clients, McCourt said Apple Inc.’s new iMessage
program threatens the popularity of RIM’s BlackBerry Messenger
program.  Saputo Inc. (SAP)  slumped 1.3 percent to C$46.50. Canada’s
largest food producer reported fourth-quarter of 55 Canadian
cents a share, missing the average of six analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg survey by 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  