-- 
Accused Mumbai Terror Plotter Rana ‘No Dupe’ in Aiding Headley, U.S. Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-06-07T19:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/accused-mumbai-terror-plotter-rana-was-not-a-dupe-u-s-says-in-closing.html
Tahawwur Rana knew what he was doing
when he helped plan the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks that
killed about 160 people, including six Americans, a U.S.
prosecutor told a federal jury in  Chicago .  Rana, a Pakistani native and Canadian citizen, is accused
of providing a cover story and phony identification for
Washington-born David Coleman Headley, who last year pleaded
guilty to charges he helped select targets for the three-day
siege in India. Rana’s lawyers say Headley lied to their client.  “He’s not some fool,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Victoria
Peters said of Rana in her closing argument today. “He knows
exactly who David Headley is and what David Headley is about,
and he fully approves.”  Rana, 50, who ran an immigration services business with
offices in Chicago,  New York  and Toronto, is charged with three
counts of providing material support to terrorists and could
receive life in prison if he is convicted. Headley, who faced a
possible death sentence before his plea, testified as the U.S.
government’s lead witness against Rana.  In his closing, defense attorney Patrick Blegen portrayed
Headley as a life-long manipulator and confidence man who
trained to be a spy in  Pakistan .  ‘Nothing Is Simple’  “Nothing is simple when it comes to David Headley,” Blegen
told the jury. “He thinks he can fool everyone. He can’t fool
you.”  In her closing, Peters showed jurors e-mails between the
two men and a business card that she said was printed with
Rana’s approval and that identified Headley as an “immigration
consultant” for a business called “immigrant law center” with
offices in Chicago, New York and Toronto.  “Rana was not a dupe, he was not a fool,” Peters told the
jurors, whose identities are being kept secret.  She also referred to a recording played for the jury of a
conversation between the two men on Sept. 7, 2009, about the
Mumbai attacks. Blegen said Headley lied to his client to
control his knowledge and did so as late as the time of that
conversation, which was recorded by the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation .  In their talk, the men can be heard comparing how each
learned of the Mumbai attacks, which contradicts government
claims that Rana helped to plan them, Blegen said. Headley was
arrested less than a month later, he said.  “He is not a knowing conspirator,” Blegen said of Rana.  ‘Best Friend’  Born Daood Gilani, the son of an American woman and a
Pakistani man, Headley, 50, told jurors he had known Rana since
they attended a military academy in Pakistan as teenagers. He
also said he considered the Chicago businessman his “best
friend in the world.”  Rana allegedly allowed Headley to open a branch of his
immigration services business in Mumbai. The assault there has
been blamed on the Pakistani group Lashkar-e-Taiba, which the
U.S. labeled a terrorist organization in 2001.  While in  India , Headley conducted video surveillance of
sites including the Taj Mahal Hotel, the Oberoi Hotel, a café, a
train station and a Jewish  community center , all of which were
later attacked, according to his plea agreement.  Headley testified that he was working with Lashkar as well
as with a Pakistani intelligence officer identified only as
“Major Iqbal,” and another man, al-Qaeda affiliate Ilyas
Kashmiri, who was reported killed in a U.S. missile attack on
June 3.  Danish Newspaper  Peters said Headley schemed with Kashmiri to plan attacks
on Morgenavisen Jyllands-Posten, the Copenhagen newspaper that
printed inflammatory cartoons of the Islamic prophet Muhammad in
2005.  Posing as an agent of Rana’s immigration services firm
seeking to place an ad, Headley traveled to  Denmark  to learn the
newspaper’s layout for an assault, Peters said. She asked the
jury to consider why else Rana and Headley would patronize a
newspaper that had insulted Muslims around the world.  “This is a simple case about awful things: two terror
plots,” Peters said.  Blegen said the case hinged on whether his client knew
about Headley’s actions.  “Ignorance is not knowledge,” the lawyer told the jury. “If
somebody makes you ignorant, you do not have knowledge.”  The case is U.S. v. Kashmiri, 09-cr-00830, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  