-- 
Macquarie Stock Cut to ‘Sell’ By Citigroup on Growth Outlook

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-06-07T06:32:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/macquarie-stock-cut-to-sell-by-citigroup-on-growth-outlook-2-.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  is falling
behind rivals in generating fees from mergers and acquisitions
and is likely to earn less than forecast from its fixed income,
currency and commodities business, Citigroup Inc. said.  While global mergers and acquisitions have risen 29 percent
in the five months to the end of May from the same period a year
earlier, Macquarie’s announced deals are down 56 percent,
Citigroup analysts said. Macquarie shares fell to the lowest
level in more than two years after Citigroup cut its  rating  on
Australia’s biggest investment bank to “sell” from “hold.”  Sydney-based Macquarie forecast on April 29 that  profit  in
the year ending March 31, 2012, will top the A$956 million
($1.02 billion) earned in the previous fiscal year as its U.S.
expansion boosts returns and dealmaking and equity trading
rebound. Citigroup cut its estimate of Macquarie’s cash earnings
per share for this fiscal year by 10 percent as “deal pipeline,
M&A shares, and markets all weaken.”  “It is apparent that Macquarie continues to produce less
revenue per full-time employee than most of its investment
banking peers,” Citigroup analysts led by Melbourne-based Wes Nason said in a report released today. “Macquarie’s growth
aspirations are hampered by its poorer revenue performance,
which in turn makes it more difficult to be fully competitive in
compensation” for its bankers, he said.  Shares Slide  Shares of Macquarie fell 2.1 percent to A$32 in Sydney, its
lowest since May 2009, extending this year’s decline to 14
percent. The benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 index  has slipped 3.8 percent
in 2011.  Macquarie, founded in 1969 with three  employees , had a
15,556-strong payroll as of March 31, after Chief Executive
Officer Nicholas Moore almost doubled his workforce in the
Americas over the last two years by buying units such as Fox-Pitt Kelton Cochran Caronia Waller LLC.  Moore positioned the bank for a rebound in markets by
expanding in the Americas, Asia and Europe, which accounted for
a record 64 percent of  earnings  in the second half. The stronger
Australian dollar is “unsupportive” of ex- Australia  earnings,
Citigroup said in the note.  Macquarie spokeswoman Paula Hannaford said the bank doesn’t
comment on analysts’ reports.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  