-- 
U.S. Commanders Say They’re Thwarting the Taliban from Remote Outposts

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-07T06:22:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/afghan-war-commanders-thwart-taliban.html
Army Colonel Jeffrey Martindale, U.S.
commander in the area known as the birthplace of the Taliban,
has seen the meaning of “fragile and reversible,” the
military’s description for  Afghanistan ’s status today.  From Forward Operating Base Walton, his troops have driven
militants from southern Kandahar Province and forged ties with
local Afghan leaders. Insurgent attacks there are one-tenth the
level of a year ago. Troops swim in a river once Taliban held.  Martindale has lost 16 soldiers dead and more than 200
wounded to get that done. Still, the Taliban recently killed his
close partner, Kandahar’s provincial police chief.  Now Martindale and his 1st Brigade, 4th Infantry Division
will soon leave. Although replacements are trained and on site
for a smooth transition, it’s hard to hand off the bonds created
fighting side-by-side with the Afghans, Martindale said. Those
Afghan soldiers and police “will fight for us because of the
relationships we have personally with them.”  Martindale’s concerns are part of the calculus as the Obama
administration sets a course for future U.S. involvement in
Afghanistan, including the pace of withdrawal.  President  Barack Obama  in December 2009 pledged to begin
reducing U.S. forces next month, to wind down a “surge” that
increased American troops in the war zone by 30,000, to about
100,000. Obama said yesterday, in an interview with Hearst-
Argyle Television Inc., that the U.S. has accomplished much of
what it set out to do in Afghanistan with the killing of al-
Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden and advances against the Taliban in
a war now costing more than $100 billion a year.  ‘Decisive Blow’  Outgoing Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , who today departed
Afghanistan for his final time in office, has urged patience to
solidify the gains.  “I leave Afghanistan today with the belief that if we can
keep this momentum up, we will deliver a decisive blow to the
enemy and turn the corner in this conflict,” Gates told
officers and civilians at the U.S.-led coalition’s joint
operations center that he ordered set up two years ago to better
coordinate the military campaign.  Troops had asked Gates what effect bin Laden’s death would
have on the war effort at each of the five bases he visited over
two days. Gates and the local commanders alike said it was too
soon to tell. Officers said they hadn’t seen Afghanistan changed
by bin Laden’s demise.  ‘Non-Event’  “It was almost a non-event,” said Lieutenant Colonel Clay
Padgett of the 1st Battalion, 22nd Infantry Regiment at the
Walton base in Kandahar City. “It was just noted.”  The focus now is working with the new police chief. While
Martindale said the chief been been implicated in border
corruption, he’s also a strong leader and a folk hero to local
youth, said Colonel John Voorhees of the 504th Military Police
Battalion.  “He’s going to change the ANP, if we can keep him alive,”
Voorhees said, referring to the Afghan National Police.  In neighboring Helmand Province, Marine Corps Major General
John Toolan just took over a regional command at a sprawling,
desolate compound called Camp Dwyer.  About 5,000 military personnel, contractors and civilians
make Dwyer their temporary home. The 110-degree Fahrenheit heat
overwhelmed the generator-driven cooling in the makeshift
auditorium where Gates gave his remarks and answered questions.  Afghan Control  The camp is about 35 miles southwest of Lashkar Gah, one of
a handful of areas that President  Hamid Karzai  recently
announced would come under Afghan security control in July. Camp
Dwyer also is 20 miles from Marjah, where the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization-led coalition mounted one of its biggest
offenses in early 2010.  “We have succeeded in stopping the Taliban’s momentum,”
Gates said, his face and arms glistening with sweat, his face
red. “In a lot of places like here, particularly here in the
south and southwest, we’ve reversed that momentum.”  Toolan said the northern Helmand River valley is his next
“challenge.” And he’s working on a plan to ensure the Afghan
National Army and police forces get needed training and
equipment to prepare them to take the lead nationwide in 2014.  In eastern Afghanistan, Gates met with commanders trying to
monitor the porous border with  Pakistan , where fighters and
couriers ferry weapons and money to militants fighting the U.S.-
led coalition.  Bronze Stars  After landing on a wind-swept plateau overlooking broad
valleys with touches of green, Gates’s convoy rode to the troop
area.  “Your speed 34,” read an electronic monitor on roadside,
as if it were possible to drive much faster on the rugged
terrain. The entire Paktika Province, its lowest elevation 7,200
feet, has only one paved road and that wasn’t it.  Forward Operating Base Sharana houses 3,500 soldiers of the
Army’s 506th Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade, 101st Airborne
Division and Task Force Currahee, a word derived from Cherokee.
Gates noted the June 6 anniversary of D-Day in World War II and
the role played by the 101st Airborne.  He pinned Bronze Star medals for bravery on three members
of the unit, which has lost 17 soldiers in Afghanistan.  The commander, Colonel Sean Jenkins, has given away 22,000
radios to a population that’s 95 percent illiterate. He stepped
up the program after discovering that most Taliban soldiers who
had entered a program to give up the fight in exchange for
legitimate work had learned about the offer on the radio.  ‘Night Letters’  To counter the intimidating “night letters,” issued by
the Taliban after dark to threaten civilians, Jenkins’ troops
developed “confidence letters,” stapled up in public places to
remind villagers how their own police are helping.  At Combat Operating Post Andar in Ghazni Province,
Lieutenant Colonel Alan Streeter introduced Gates as the
official “responsible for the rapid procurement of these big,
beautiful vehicles back here.”  Streeter was pointing at two tan-colored metal beasts equal
to the mouthful that is their name, Mine-Resistant Ambush-
Protected All-Terrain Vehicles. The armored transports protect
soldiers from roadside bombs. They formed the backdrop as Gates
pinned on Streeter a Purple Heart, the medal known as the one
nobody wants because it denotes wounded in combat.  In a voice choked with emotion, Gates told the troops that
they’ve been his priority throughout his 4 1/2-year term and
would be in his prayers “every day for the rest of my life.”  “The thing that I’d like to be remembered for are the
things that I tried to do to help you all accomplish the mission,
come home safely and, if you’re hurt, be taken care of, be
rescued quickly,” he told members of the 4th Brigade, 10th
Mountain Division at Forward Operating Base Shank in Logar
Province. “These are the things that mean the most to me,
because I think they have the most impact on you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  