-- 
Agriculture Markets May Be Transparent Enough, Exchanges Say

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-07T16:55:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/agriculture-markets-may-be-transparent-enough-exchanges-say.html
Agriculture markets may be
transparent enough and little more regulation is needed,
according to a panel of executives from global exchanges at the
International Grains Council conference in London today.  Panel members Ian Dudden, director of commodities
derivatives for NYSE Liffe, Rod Gravelet-Blondin, senior general
manager for commodity derivatives at the  Johannesburg Stock
Exchange , and Lisa Kallal from CME Group said while regulation
is necessary, too much can stifle markets’ ability to function
properly and lead to price discovery.  “How far do we take transparency at the end of the day?”
Gravelet-Blondin said. “It’s not in our interest to have
markets that screw things up. Maybe the problem is too much
regulation and then you lose ability for markets to function
efficiently.”  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who is leading the Group
of 20 nations this year, has said regulation of commodity
markets is a priority. Agriculture ministers from G-20 countries
will meet later this month in Paris to discuss whether more
regulation is necessary to control volatility and increase
transparency in grain and oilseed trading.  Knowing how much government intervention is needed isn’t
clear because all markets are different, NYSE Liffe’s Dudden
said. “There will be a lot of work to create the right outcome
in terms of development in regulation of the markets,” Dudden
said. “In our markets, different solutions apply to different
markets.”  Food Shortages  Price swings can be attributed to food shortages, rising
populations and increased focus on  commodities markets  as food
costs rise, Gravelet-Blondin said. Prices have been rising even
as production of raw materials used to make foods has gained
because forecasts show the global population will jump and
consumption will continue to outpace supply, he said.  Corn futures more than doubled in the past year in Chicago
trading on speculation global consumption would outpace demand,
while wheat jumped 76 percent, soybeans added 50 percent and
rice climbed 34 percent. Raw sugar surged 64 percent in  New York 
and arabica coffee almost doubled.  Interest in commodities markets has increased, especially
in  Europe , Kallal said. Too much regulation in U.S. markets may
drive investors overseas, she said.  “We’re not just focusing on U.S. regulation anymore,”
Kallal said. “Looking at regulation, you want to make it so you
don’t have so much that you send trading abroad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  