-- 
Agriculture Needs Investors, Not Speculators, Le Maire Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-07T10:44:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/agriculture-needs-investors-not-speculators-le-maire-says-1-.html
Agriculture needs investors who will
put money into research and development rather than speculators
who make profits quickly and then close positions, Bruno Le
Maire,  France ’s minister for agriculture said.  Investments are needed for inputs and infrastructure in the
agriculture industry that will curb worries about food
availability, Le Maire said at an International Grains Council
conference in London today. Speculative investments in grain
markets should be better regulated by governments to reduce
volatility, he said.  “France is opposed to speculative activities which
unbridle the market and lead to dangerous situations for
investors,” Le Maire said. “We can all see the current
situation is unsatisfactory and there is too much volatility and
that the global mechanism is not enough to react to crises.”  Corn futures more than doubled in the past year in Chicago
trading on speculation global consumption would outpace demand,
while wheat jumped 76 percent, soybeans added 50 percent and
rice climbed 34 percent. Raw sugar surged 64 percent in  New York 
and arabica coffee almost doubled.  G-20 nations agreed in February to analyze drivers of
commodity-price volatility and a report is scheduled to go to
finance ministers and central bankers in July.  Europe ’s finance
ministers last month called for stricter oversight of commodity-
derivatives trading following concerns that speculation is
driving raw-materials prices higher.  Grocery costs gained 36 percent globally in the past year,
the UN’s  Food and Agriculture Organization  said in April. Food
inflation in the U.S. will rise 3 to 4 percent this year, the
most since 2008, the Department of Agriculture said last month.
Nestle SA, the world’s largest food company, said May 19 food
prices would “tick up” this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  