-- 
Ahold’s Dutch Margins Narrow as Cost Inflation Increases More Thans Prices

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-06-07T09:16:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/ahold-net-income-beats-analysts-estimates-boosted-by-u-s-.html
Royal Ahold NV, the owner of Albert
Heijn supermarkets in the Netherlands, said profitability
slipped at its Dutch stores in the first quarter as cost
inflation increased at a faster pace than prices.  Underlying operating margin at the retailer’s domestic
stores narrowed to 6 percent in the 16 weeks ended April 24 from
6.9 percent a year earlier, Amsterdam-based Ahold said today.
Net income rose 6.2 percent, beating estimates, as a later
Easter holiday boosted earnings in the U.S., where the company
owns the Stop & Shop and Giant Landover chains.  Ahold fell as much as 2 percent in Amsterdam trading, the
steepest drop in the Dutch benchmark AEX Index. The remainder of
the year will be challenging as inflation continues and
promotional activity intensifies, particularly in the U.S.,
Chief Executive Officer Dick Boer said in a statement.  “Ahold has felt the pressure from food inflation across
 Europe ,” Natalia Grabov, an analyst at  Verdict Research , said
in an e-mailed comment. “This factor, combined with consumers’
continued demand for value, has meant that Ahold’s profitability
in the region has suffered.”  Competitor Jumbo Groep Holding BV’s conversion of Super De
Boer outlets to the Jumbo format “may have been an increasingly
important factor, as Ahold confirmed that in Holland it did not
pass on to consumers all of the supplier cost increases,”  James Grzinic , an analyst at Jefferies International, said in a note.  Shares Drop  Ahold fell 11 cents, or 1.1 percent, to 9.64 euros as of
10:24 a.m. in Amsterdam trading, erasing an initial gain of as
much as 1.4 percent. The shares have slipped 3.1 percent this
year, while U.S. rival  SuperValu Inc. (SVU)  has fallen 10 percent.  First-quarter net income rose to 291 million euros ($425
million) from 274 million euros a year earlier, Ahold said. The
average of 12 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 279
million euros. Sales gained 5.9 percent to 9.25 billion euros.  The quarter ended on the Easter weekend and therefore
didn’t include the slow week that traditionally follows the
holiday in the U.S., spokesman Jochem van de Laarschot said.  “The results in the U.S. are higher than expected,” said
Alistair Wittet, an analyst at Citigroup Global Markets who has
a “hold” rating on the shares. The performance in the
Netherlands was “a bit soft,” he said, without elaborating.  Sales in the U.S. rose 7.4 percent to $7.6 billion, while
the underlying retail operating margin in the country was 4.6
percent, up from 4.2 percent a year earlier. In the fourth
quarter, the margin was 3.8 percent.  The timing of Easter added 1 percentage point to identical
sales and 0.2 percentage points to operating margin, CEO Boer
said on a conference call.  Ahold has been adjusting its product range at Stop & Shop
and Giant Landover and stepped up promotions to win shoppers in
the U.S., where Ahold got 45 percent of its revenue last year.  “We delivered solid results and increased volumes in all
our markets despite challenging market conditions with customers
continuing to focus on value,” Boer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  