-- 
Air NZ Delays Licensing ‘Cuddle-Class’ to Keep Exclusivity

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 
2011-06-08T06:38:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/air-nz-delays-licensing-cuddle-class-seat-to-keep-exclusivity.html
Air New Zealand Ltd. (AIR) , the country’s
state-controlled carrier, delayed plans to license its “cuddle-
class” seats to other airlines because of surging passenger
demand for the lie-flat units.  “We want to have it exclusive for longer,” Chief
Executive Officer Rob Fyfe said yesterday in Singapore in a
Bloomberg Television interview. Bookings for the in-house
designed seats are 30 percent higher than for normal ones, he
said.  Air NZ this year began flying Boeing Co. 777s fitted with
the units, which comprise three economy-class seats that can be
converted into a bed, to help compete with Emirates Airline and
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  on long-haul routes. The carrier was in
talks to sell the technology to other airlines, Fyfe said in
December.  The Auckland-based carrier also anticipates an earnings
boost of as much as NZ$40 million ($33 million) from the Rugby
World Cup, which begins in  New Zealand  in Sept. 9, Fyfe said
yesterday. The six-week-long event may help the airline recover
from a forecast loss in the first six months of the year
following earthquakes in Christchurch and  Japan , as well as
floods and a tropical cyclone in  Australia .  “This is the toughest half-year I’ve experienced since I
came into this role,” said Fyfe, 50, who became CEO in 2005.
The boost from the World Cup “is significant when you’ve come
off a tough year.”  The airline fell 1.9 percent to NZ$1.02 at the 5 p.m. close
in Wellington trading. It has plunged 32 percent this year, the
second-worst performance in the benchmark Top 50 Index.  The Rugby  World Cup  will likely draw about 85,000 overseas
visitors to New Zealand, the organizers said after the initial
ticket allocation in November. Prime Minister John Key has
predicted the event will give the economy a 0.3 percent boost in
the second half, helping the nation rebound from the February
earthquake in Christchurch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Singapore at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  