-- 
Canadian Stocks Fall for Seventh Straight Day as Metals Decline

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-06-08T20:46:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/major-drilling-group-transcontinental-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks fell to a six-month
low as metal prices dropped a day after U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called his country’s economic recovery
“frustratingly slow.”  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest gold producer,
declined 2 percent as the  U.S. dollar  rose. Contract driller
 Major Drilling Group International (MDI)  Inc. tumbled 6.6 percent
after reporting earnings that missed analyst estimates. Sino-
Forest Corp., the forestry company that plunged after a short
seller said it manipulated financial data, gained 21 percent
after analysts at Royal Bank of  Canada  and Dundee Securities
Ltd. expressed confidence in the company.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index retreated 99.13
points, or 0.8 percent, to 13,183.79, the lowest close since
Dec. 16 and the first under the 200-day moving average since
Aug. 25. The S&P/TSX has declined seven straight days, the
longest streak of losses since June 2006.  “We continue to have poor numbers” from the U.S., said
Luc Girard, director of the portfolio advisory group at
Desjardins Securities in  Montreal , which manages C$18 billion
($18 billion). “With 70 percent or 80 percent of exports that
go to the U.S., if you have an economy that’s not going as well
as we thought, it’s certainly a negative for the TSX.”  The stock benchmark has dropped 4.7 percent since May 30 as
data on U.S. employment and manufacturing and Canadian building
permits reflected slowing growth. The index closed at its lowest
price relative to earnings since September.  Easing Unlikely  Bernanke’s speech in Atlanta yesterday indicated a third
round of asset purchases known as quantitative easing is
unlikely, according to Sung Won Sohn, an economics professor at
California State University-Channel Islands and former chief
economist at Wells Fargo & Co.  The U.S. Dollar index extended its gains after  Germany  said
industrial production dropped in April and German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said bondholders must contribute a
“substantial” share of a second aid package for  Greece .  Gold futures slipped while silver slumped 1.1 percent.
Barrick declined for a seventh day, losing 2 percent to C$43.36.
 Eldorado Gold Corp. (ELD) , which mines in  China  and  Turkey , decreased
2.5 percent to C$13.80 for an eighth-straight loss, the longest
streak since 1997.  Silver Producers  Silver Wheaton Corp. (SLW) , Canada’s fourth-biggest precious-
metals company by market value, retreated 3.5 percent to
C$31.76.  Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) , which produces the metal in
China, sank 11 percent, the most in two years, to C$8.54.  Base-metals and coal producers fell as copper futures
dropped.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s largest company in the
industry, declined 1.3 percent to C$46.63.  First Quantum
Minerals Ltd. (FM) , the country’s second-biggest publicly traded
copper producer, lost 3.3 percent to C$122.05. Ivanhoe Mines
Ltd., which is developing a copper and gold mine in  Mongolia 
with Rio Tinto Group, decreased 2.3 percent to C$21.47 after
closing at an eight-month low yesterday.  Major Drilling sank 6.6 percent to a six-month low of
C$12.85 after its fourth-quarter profit trailed the average of
six analyst estimates by 37 percent, excluding certain items.  Westport Innovations Inc. (WPT) , which develops natural-gas
engine technologies, plunged 15 percent, the most since February
2009, to C$19.36 after reporting a larger fourth-quarter loss
than all eight analysts in a Bloomberg survey had estimated.  Tighter Rules  Uranium producers retreated after the New York Times said
energy and nuclear officials from several countries pledged to
enhance nuclear-safety rules.  Cameco Corp. (CCO) , the world’s largest uranium producer, fell
2.4 percent to C$25.88.  Uranium One Inc. (UUU) , a mining company
controlled by ARMZ Uranium Holding, slumped 6.9 percent to a
nine-month low of C$3.09.  Denison Mines Corp. (DML)  dropped 9.2
percent to C$1.78.  Sino-Forest advanced 21 percent to C$4.92. In a note dated
yesterday and made public today, Paul Quinn, a Royal Bank
analyst, reiterated an “outperform” rating on the company.  Richard Kelertas, an analyst at Dundee Securities, said on
a conference call yesterday that the assertions made by short
seller Carson Block are unfounded.  The shares had plunged 78 percent from June 1 to yesterday.
On June 2, Block, the founder of Hong Kong-based Muddy Waters
Research, said Sino-Forest’s stated land holdings do not match
Chinese city records and its disclosed production may be
inaccurate. The company has denied the statements and published
documents on its website it says support its published financial
data.  BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  lost 2.7 percent
to C$35.93, a four-year low. Stephen Patel, an analyst at
Gleacher & Co., cut his 12-month price estimate on RIM’s U.S.-
traded share to $43 from $56, citing competition and
“uncertainty over new handset launches” in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  