-- 
Malaysia Stocks: Malaysian Airline System, Ramunia, Priceworth

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-06-07T09:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/malaysia-stocks-malaysian-airline-system-hap-seng-priceworth.html
Shares of the following companies had
unusual price changes in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of the 5 p.m. close in Kuala
Lumpur.  Malaysia’s  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index fell 0.25 points,
or less than 0.1 percent, to 1,551.89, sliding for a second day.  Oil and gas services providers:  KNM Group Bhd. (KNMG)  
rose 5.2 percent to 2.02 ringgit, the biggest advance since
March 9.  Ramunia Holdings Bhd. (RH)   increased 4.4 percent to
0.48 sen, the most since April 26. The shares gained after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its rating on Malaysian shares
to “overweight” on expectations the nation will benefit from
higher crude prices.  Boustead Holdings Bhd. (BOUS)  , a plantation, property
and financial services group, rose 5.3 percent to 6.16 ringgit,
the highest close since Jan. 14, 2008. The Edge reported that
Boustead plans to pare its stake in Pharmaniaga Bhd. to 75
percent. Lodin Wok Kamaruddin, deputy chairman of Boustead
Holdings and chairman of Pharmaniaga, wasn’t immediately
available when phoned at his office today.  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  , the national
carrier, increased 1.4 percent to 1.44 ringgit, the first gain
in three days. The company said yesterday it plans to join the
Oneworld aviation alliance. This will be “long-term” positive
for the carrier as it will widen its network, OSK Research Sdn.
said in a report today.  Malaysia Marine & Heavy Engineering Holdings Bhd. (MMHE
MK), a rig builder, climbed 1.9 percent to 8.08 ringgit, closing
at a record. The stock was rated “buy” in new coverage at UOB-
Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. by equity analyst  Vincent Khoo . The
brokerage has a share-price estimate of 8.80 ringgit.       Priceworth International Bhd. (PWP MK), a timber company,
gained 2.9 percent to 54 sen, the steepest increase since May
20. The company said in a statement it signed an agreement to
carry out logging in two concession areas of the Solomon
Islands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  