-- 
Chemicals in Shale-Gas Drilling Should Be Disclosed, Talisman CEO Says

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 
2011-06-07T10:06:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/talisman-says-chemicals-in-shale-gas-drilling-pose-no-danger-to-public.html
Drillers in the U.S. must disclose
ingredients used in fracking, a shale-gas extraction technique
that environmentalists say contaminates drinking-water sources,
 Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  Chief Executive Officer John Manzoni said.  “It’s a good thing to be as transparent as we can be,”
Manzoni said today at the Asia Oil and Gas Conference in  Kuala
Lumpur . “The industry is doing a better job of use of water,
cleaning, disposal and in some cases, recycling the water.”
Fracking poses no danger to the public, he said.  Texas, the biggest source of U.S. natural gas, plans to
protect the secrecy of chemical mixtures used in hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking. Exxon Mobil Corp., the largest U.S. gas
producer, is mounting a campaign to defend fracking as
environmentally safe, CEO Rex Tillerson said May 25.  Output of shale gas in the U.S. may more than double by
2020, leaving enough supplies available for exports, Manzoni
said. Shale-gas output rose 57 percent to 4.87 trillion cubic
feet in 2010, the U.S. Energy Information Administration said in
April. Fracking has enabled energy explorers to extract the fuel
from shale formations in  Texas , Louisiana, Arkansas and
 Pennsylvania , previously considered impenetrable.  The EPA and lawmakers are trying to assess the safety of
fracking, a technique that injects a mix of water and chemicals
to break shale rock and release oil and gas. New York
temporarily banned fracking on concern that the process may
contaminate drinking water, while  New Jersey  is considering a
ban and Pittsburgh has prohibited fracking within city limits.  French Environment Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet said
on June 1 any research using hydraulic fracturing in  France 
would have to be “extremely strictly” controlled by a national
commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Kuala Lumpur at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  