-- 
Barclays, Madoff, Credit Suisse, Goldman in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-07T12:42:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/halliburton-general-electric-strauss-kahn-credit-suisse-in-court-news.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , which bought Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s North American business, must return $2
billion in margin assets to the trustee liquidating the remains
of Lehman’s brokerage and pay about $270 million in interest, a
bankruptcy judge ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in  New York  yesterday said
Barclays must pay the trustee 5 percent interest on the assets
from September 2008 until he signs his final order on the case.
Barclays will appeal, the bank said in an e-mailed statement.  The amount Barclays must return will be offset by $1.1
billion in assets that the two parties previously agreed should
go to the U.K. bank, which bought Lehman’s businesses in the
2008 credit crisis. That cuts its cost to about $1.2 billion,
including interest. However, Barclays lost its bid for $1.9
billion in margin to offset liabilities it took on with some of
the brokerage’s trading positions.  Peck’s “ruling brings finality to this issue by confirming
that the $4 billion in Lehman cash and other margin assets
belongs to the Trustee,” William Maguire, a lawyer for
brokerage trustee James Giddens, said in an e-mail.  Peck affirmed a February ruling, saying the continuing
dispute over $4 billion in so-called margin assets used to back
trades arose partly from Barclays’ effort to change its argument
by claiming it was entitled to noncash margin.  The dispute, arising from Barclays’ September 2008 purchase
of bankrupt Lehman’s businesses and subsequent profit on them,
led to a bankruptcy court trial in 2010 with more than 30 days
of testimony. The trial pitted the third-biggest U.K. bank
against two defunct parts of what was once the fourth-largest
U.S. investment bank.  Barclays, based in  London , and the Lehman brokerage
continued their quarrel after Peck’s February ruling didn’t
specify how they must divide some components of the assets, held
to back trades taken over by Barclays with the purchase.  “We are pleased with the court’s February ruling that
upheld the sale of Lehman Brothers’ North American business,”
said Barclays spokesman Michael O’Looney, in an e-mail. “We are
also pleased that the trustee has agreed to transfer $1.1
billion in trading assets to Barclays. However, there are
aspects of the ruling with which we disagree and which we will
appeal.”  Giddens said, “We were obligated to take this matter to
Court to protect LBI’s public customers. Our efforts have been
vindicated and customers will benefit.” LBI is  Lehman Brothers
Inc ., the remnants of the brokerage.  The main case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Halliburton Loses as  Supreme Court  Backs Securities Suits  The U.S. Supreme Court made it easier for investors to
press  securities fraud  suits, ruling for shareholders who accuse
 Halliburton Co. (HAL)  of misrepresenting its financial condition while
under Dick Cheney’s leadership.  The justices yesterday unanimously  said  the shareholders
can sue as a group without first establishing that they lost
money as a result of the alleged fraud.  The shareholders, led by the Erica P. John Fund, contend
that Halliburton from 1999 to 2001 falsified earnings reports,
played down estimated asbestos liability and overstated the
benefits of a merger. Cheney, later the U.S. vice president,
served as chairman and chief executive officer of the oilfield
services provider during part of the disputed period.  The  high court  case concerned the standard that applies at
the so-called class certification stage, not at final judgment.
The Supreme Court previously said that, to get class-action
status, shareholders must show they made investment decisions in
reliance on a company’s alleged misstatements. Shareholders can
meet that test by showing the company perpetrated a so-called
fraud on the market.  Chief Justice John Roberts yesterday said that requirement
doesn’t mean that investors seeking class-action status must
show that they lost money as a result of the alleged fraud.  “The fact that a subsequent loss may have been caused by
factors other than the revelation of a misrepresentation has
nothing to do with whether an investor relied on the
misrepresentation in the first place,” Roberts wrote in his
opinion for the court.  Houston-based Halliburton said in a statement that it will
make other arguments against class-action status when the case
returns to the appeals court. The company said it hasn’t set
aside any money to cover potential damages “because it does not
believe that loss is probable.”  Boies called the ruling “a victory for effective
enforcement of public securities laws and for individuals and
institutions that are injured by securities fraud.”  The case is Erica P. John Fund v. Halliburton, 09-1403,
U.S. Supreme Court ( Washington ).  Ex-Madoff Employee Eric Lipkin Pleads Guilty in Ponzi Scheme  Former Bernard Madoff employee Eric Lipkin pleaded guilty
to charges that he falsified documents to help carry out the
biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.  Lipkin, 37, pleaded guilty to six criminal counts,
including conspiracy, falsifying records and bank fraud, in a
hearing yesterday in Manhattan federal court. Lipkin agreed to
cooperate with the government in its investigation of the fraud
at Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, which became
public with Madoff’s arrest in December 2008.  “I’d like to first apologize to my family, my friends and
all the victims in the case,” Lipkin told U.S. District Judge
Laura Taylor Swain.  Lipkin then told Swain that he falsified documents to show
non-existent account holdings, to put people on the Madoff
payroll who didn’t work for the firm and to fraudulently apply
for a construction loan. Swain accepted Lipkin’s plea before
approving an agreement between Lipkin and federal prosecutors to
release him on a $2.5 million bond pending his sentencing.  Swain told Lipkin he faces as long as 70 years in prison.
Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year term in a North Carolina
prison.  The case is U.S. v. Lipkin, 10-CR-228, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  GE Rejected by U.S. Supreme Court on Superfund Law Challenge  The U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear  General Electric
Co. (GE) ’s contention that the Environmental Protection Agency is
abusing the federal Superfund law in its efforts to force
companies to clean up hazardous waste sites.  The justices yesterday left intact a federal appeals court
decision upholding a Superfund provision that GE said violates
the constitutional rights of companies.  The disputed provision lets the EPA order companies to
begin cleanup of a contaminated site. Although companies can go
to court to challenge the order, they run the risk of being
fined as much as $37,500 a day for noncompliance.  The Obama administration urged the Supreme Court not to
hear the appeal.  The case is General Electric v. Jackson, 10-871, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Ex-IMF Chief Strauss-Kahn Pleads Not Guilty to Sex Assault  Former International Monetary Fund Managing Director
Dominique Strauss-Kahn pleaded not guilty three weeks after his
arrest on charges of sexually assaulting and attempting to rape
a Manhattan hotel maid.  “Not guilty,” Strauss-Kahn, wearing a blue tie and a dark
suit, told New York State Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus
yesterday in Manhattan. The defendant was flanked by his
attorneys, Benjamin Brafman and William Taylor III. After the
hearing, Strauss-Kahn left the courthouse hand-in-hand with his
wife, Anne Sinclair, as hotel workers shouted “Shame on you.”  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was arrested May 14 and later indicted on
seven counts, including criminal sex act, attempted rape, sexual
abuse, unlawful imprisonment and forcible touching. If convicted
of the top charges, he faces as long as 25 years in prison.  He allegedly attacked a housekeeper, a 32-year-old from
Guinea, at the Midtown Manhattan Sofitel on May 14, grabbing her
breasts and trying to pull down her pantyhose, prosecutors said
in court papers. The former IMF chief attempted to rape her and
forced oral sex, according to the indictment.  “There was no element of forcible compulsion whatsoever in
this case,” Brafman told reporters outside the courthouse after
the arraignment. Obus scheduled the next hearing for July 18.  Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance minister, was
released from jail on May 20. Among the terms of his release are
$1 million bail, a $5 million bond and security measures that
include electronic monitoring, steps that the district
attorney’s office estimates cost $200,000 a month.  “All of Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s power, money and
influence throughout the world will not change the truth of what
he did to her in that hotel room,” Kenneth P. Thompson, a
former federal prosecutor who is representing the accuser, said
after the hearing. “She is going to come into this courthouse,
sit down on that witness stand and tell the world what Dominique
Strauss-Kahn did to her.”  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11, Supreme Court
of the State of New York, New York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Credit Suisse Employees Face Trial in Korea, Times Says  Two former employees of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s Hong Kong
branch face trial in South Korea on charges of unfair
profiteering from stock price manipulation, the  Korea Times 
reported yesterday.  The pair were charged with investing in struggling firms
between 2005 and 2006 to boost their stock prices and selling
borrowed shares from the companies at higher prices, the
newspaper said, citing the  Seoul Central District Prosecutors’
Office .  Three phone calls to the prosecutors’ office were
unanswered yesterday, a Korean national holiday. Uni Park, a
spokeswoman for Credit Suisse in Seoul, declined to comment.  ArcelorMittal Joins Kumba Court Action on Sishen Mine Rights  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , a unit of the biggest
steelmaker, won court approval to join  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) ’s
legal bid to reverse the state’s award of rights over the Sishen
iron-ore mine to Imperial Crown Trading 289 Ltd.  “ ArcelorMittal (MT)  has a direct and substantial interest in
the pending review and interdict proceedings,” the company said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “It is both necessary and
convenient that it be joined as a party.”  Kumba, based in Pretoria, is asking the nation’s High Court
to set aside the government’s award of prospecting rights last
year to Imperial, whose owners include Jagdish Parekh, a
business partner of South African President Jacob Zuma’s son
Duduzane. ArcelorMittal, based in Vanderbijlpark, lost rights
over 21.4 percent of Sishen after failing to renew the title.  The steelmaker was also approved to join an application by
Kumba to stop South Africa granting mining rights to Imperial.  The court decision means “some of the detail that would
have been covered in the arbitration will now be dealt with in
the High Court,” Kumba said yesterday in an e-mailed response
to a query, adding it’s satisfied with the ruling. “This will
narrow the focus of the arbitration which will be bound by any
ruling made by the High Court.” The hearing begins Aug. 12, it
said.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Gupta Sued by Goldman Shareholder for ‘Short-Swing’ Profits  Ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director Rajat Gupta was sued
by a shareholder to recover “short-swing” profit on trades
allegedly based on inside tips from Gupta that were made by
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  Investor James Mercer, in a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Manhattan, seeks to recover profit Galleon made
from trading Goldman shares within a six-month period based on
information from Gupta.  “Mr. Gupta was beneficial owner of these securities
because he had a pecuniary interest in the profits generated by
this trading activity,” Mercer, a resident of Kirkland,
Washington, said in the complaint. “Mr. Rajaratnam undoubtedly
paid Mr. Gupta for the Goldman Sachs inside information on which
these trades were made.”  Mercer is seeking a judgment requiring Gupta to pay the
short-swing profits from Galleon’s trading, from June to October
of 2008. Mercer didn’t specify the amount he’s seeking in the
suit.  “This lawsuit is completely without merit, and we will
vigorously defend against it,”  Gary Naftalis , a lawyer for
Gupta, said in a statement.  In March, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed
an administrative proceeding accusing Gupta of passing tips to
Rajaratnam. Naftalis called those allegations totally baseless
at the time.  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment yesterday.  The case is Mercer v. Gupta, 11-cv-03828, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Ex-SAC Capital Manager Compares Expert Networking to Match.com  A former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager told a
jury he made millions of dollars on illegal inside information
using expert networking firms, which he likened to online dating
service Match.com LP.  Noah Freeman, who pleaded guilty to securities fraud and is
cooperating with the government, resumed his testimony yesterday
in federal court in New York against Winifred Jiau, 43. He said
she passed him “perfect information” about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and
Marvell Technology Group Ltd. for at least eight quarters, and
that he made $5 million to $10 million on Nvidia and “broke
even” on Marvell.  Jiau, of Fremont,  California , is a former Primary Global
Research LLC consultant and the first of the so-called expert
networkers to go on trial as part of a U.S. crackdown on insider
trading at  hedge funds . Charged with conspiracy and securities
fraud, she faces as long as 25 years in prison if convicted.  Freeman, 35, said the networking firms matched portfolio
managers with specialists in public companies from a database of
consultants. He called them “expert introduction firms”
adding, “They are firms where they introduce employees of these
companies to fund managers, sort of like Match.com.”  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Stamford, Connecticut-
based SAC Capital, declined to comment. He said earlier that
Freeman and Longueuil were both dismissed from SAC Capital in
2010 because of poor performance.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-CR-161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Taylor Bean President Deserves 5-Year Sentence, U.S. Says  Raymond Bowman, former president of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp., should be sentenced to five years in prison for
his part in a $3 billion fraud at the company, prosecutors told
a federal judge.  Desiree Brown, the lender’s former treasurer, deserves an
eight-year term, the government said June 4 in court papers.  The two are to be sentenced June 10 by U.S. District Judge
Leonie Brinkema in Alexandria, Virginia, for their roles in a
scheme that duped some of the country’s largest financial
institutions, targeted the federal bank bailout program and
contributed to the failures of Montgomery, Alabama-based
Colonial Bank and its parent,  Colonial BancGroup Inc.. (CBCGQ)   “Bowman’s important -- although limited -- role in one of
the largest fraud schemes in recent history warrants a
substantial sentence,” prosecutors wrote.  Bowman, who lives in Atlanta, pleaded guilty in March to
one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, bank fraud and
securities fraud and one count of making false statements. He
faces a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison.  Prosecutors said Bowman should receive a shorter sentence
because he admitted his crimes and helped the government in its
case against  Lee Farkas , Taylor Bean’s former chairman.  A jury in Alexandria found Farkas guilty April 19 of 14
counts of conspiracy and bank, wire and securities fraud after a
two-week trial. Farkas was taken into custody after the verdict.
He is to be sentenced on June 27.  Bowman’s lawyer, Eric L. Yaffe of Gray Plant Mooty in
Washington, declined to comment. Brown’s lawyer, Jack Maro of
Ocala, Florida, said he will ask the judge to consider
sentencing his client to five or six years in prison.  The Bowman case is U.S. v. Bowman, 11-cr-00118, the Brown
case is USA v. Brown, 11-cr-00084, and the Farkas case is USA v.
Farkas, 1:10-cr-00200, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  Tzolov Should Be Granted Leniency in Sentencing, U.S. Says  Julian Tzolov , a former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  broker who
pleaded guilty to securities fraud, should be granted leniency
in his sentencing today because of his “substantial
assistance,” including testifying against his former partner,
federal prosecutors said.  Tzolov, 38, fled the U.S. before returning to plead guilty
to 12 counts, including securities fraud, wire fraud and bail
jumping. After returning, he testified at Eric Butler’s trial
that the two men told clients they invested their money in
auction-rate securities backed by federally guaranteed student
loans when they were actually backed by riskier corporate debt
and subprime mortgages.  “Tzolov detailed in a straightforward and direct manner
the complexities of the auction-rate securities market, how he
and Butler manipulated their clients’ investment in that market
through repeated lies -- in person, over the phone and by e-mail
-- and how they profited from that scheme to defraud,”
prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch wrote
in a court filing yesterday.  The government estimated Tzolov’s and Butler’s crimes cost
clients including  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) 
about $1.1 billion. The jury found Butler, 39, guilty in August
2009. U.S. District Judge Jack B. Weinstein sentenced Butler to
five years in prison. He is free on bail while he appeals his
conviction. Weinstein is scheduled to sentence Tzolov today.  The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370 and 09-cr-475, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn), and 09-
cr-685, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  On the Docket  Wal-Mart Tops High Court Agenda as Video Game Ruling Looms  Violent video games, climate change and a million  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  employees will preoccupy the U.S. Supreme Court in
the homestretch of its nine-month term.  The justices will issue 31 rulings over the next four
weeks, beginning yesterday. The June flurry has become a
tradition at a court where the combination of summer plans and
calendar realities can leave the justices resembling high school
students rushing to complete their term papers.  The disputes include two securities-fraud clashes, two
patent cases, a campaign-finance test, a free-speech case
involving pharmaceutical marketing and a fight over suits
against generic-drug makers. Those rulings ultimately may be
overshadowed by higher-profile decisions, particularly the
class-action case that will determine whether potentially a
million workers can unite in a suit accusing Wal-Mart of gender
bias.  “There are three major rulings coming that will set the
tone for the term: global warming, class actions and violent
video games,” said Tom Goldstein, a lawyer at Goldstein, Howe &
Russell PC and the creator of the  Scotusblog  website.  The March 29 argument in the Wal-Mart case suggested
skepticism among the justices about the scope of the class
approved by a federal appeals court. Should the justices rule in
Wal-Mart’s favor, they could either kill the lawsuit outright or
kick the case back to a lower court.  The ruling will be the court’s first in a dozen years on
the standards for certifying a class action. In a testament to
the importance of the case, more than 20 companies are
supporting Wal-Mart, the country’s biggest private employer.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  