-- 
Hamworthy Jumps Most in Four Months on LNG, Offshore Orders

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-06-07T16:10:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/hamworthy-jumps-most-in-four-months-on-lng-offshore-orders.html
Hamworthy Plc (HMY) , a U.K. oil and gas
services provider, rose the most in four months in London after
saying order intake for 2011 almost tripled from a year earlier
amid strong liquefied natural gas demand.  Hamworthy climbed 72 pence, or 13 percent, to 637 pence.
The stock has now advanced 49 percent this year, valuing the
Poole, England-based company at 289.3 million pounds ($476
million).  Order intake jumped to 290.5 million pounds from 99 million
pounds a year earlier, the company said in a statement. The
company won new orders for deep-well cargo pumps for eight new
floating production, storage and offloading platforms in  Brazil .
Other orders included the sale of oil and water separation
technology to companies with production platforms in the  North
Sea , Brazil and the  Middle East .  “The offshore market is still very buoyant,” Chief
Executive Officer Joe Oatley said in a telephone interview,
adding that there has also been an increase in demand for
products related to liquefied natural gas re-gasification. “In
the short term there has been a boost for LNG into  Japan  and a
sentiment away from nuclear to gas; that can only be good if
you’re in the business of providing oil and gas services.”  The company has boosted research and development spending
by 23 percent to 4.8 million pounds. The money will go toward
developing two technologies to help ships comply with new
environmental regulations. The first helps reduce sulfur
emissions and the second is used to treat ballast water.  Full-year revenue declined 15 percent to 181.6 million
pounds as a lower order book at the start of the company’s
financial year reduced earnings. Net income dropped to 10.5
million pounds from 15.1 million pounds a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  