-- 
MAN SE Boards Don’t Consider Volkswagen Offer Price ‘Fair’

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-06-07T18:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/man-se-boards-don-t-consider-volkswagen-offer-price-fair-1-.html
MAN SE’s executive and supervisory
boards recommended against shareholders accepting  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s offer today, saying the price isn’t “fair.”  The boards said in a joint statement today they welcome the
“industrial logic behind closer cooperation” between MAN, VW
and  Scania AB. (SCVB)  Cooperation could bring cost savings in
procurement, development and production, Munich-based MAN’s
boards said.  VW offered 95 euros for each common share and 59.90 euros
per preferred share in a public takeover bid begun May 31. The
Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker isn’t aiming to buy all of
MAN, saying it plans to boost its holding to as much as 40
percent, building a truck alliance together with Scania that
could save 1 billion euros ($1.47 billion) in annual costs.  Volkswagen’s offer doesn’t “fairly reflect the value of
 MAN SE (MAN)  nor the synergy and profitability potential of closer
cooperation,” MAN’s  boards  said in today’s statement.  Volkswagen, the maker of the Golf hatchback, took a
controlling stake in Soedertaelje, Sweden-based Scania in 2008.
A larger holding in MAN may allow the two truckmakers to win
regulators’ approval to share information and work more closely
together, VW Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said
last month.  VW aims for an MAN holding of 35 percent to 40 percent to
give it a stable majority at annual meetings and estimates
reaching that level may cost as much as 1.5 billion euros,
Poetsch said. The carmaker will be able to buy the shares it
needs on the open market after making the mandatory bid if
enough investors don’t tender their shares at the offer price.  The cash offer, in a tender that expires June 29, is less
than MAN’s closing stock price the day before VW announced its
bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  