-- 
Armstrong Doping Case Seen Costing Cancer Charity $10 Million

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-06-07T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/lance-armstrong-doping-case-seen-costing-his-cancer-foundation-10-million.html
Lance Armstrong’s cancer foundation
may lose up to $10 million in donations because of doping
accusations against the seven-time Tour de France champion.  Federal prosecutors in  Los Angeles  are investigating
Armstrong’s possible drug involvement, according to a person
familiar with the matter who declined to be identified because
details of the probe aren’t public. Former teammate Tyler Hamilton said on  CBS News ’s “60 Minutes” on May 22 that
Armstrong, who survived testicular cancer, used performance
enhancers. Armstrong, 39, has repeatedly denied violating doping
rules.  Armstrong’s Austin, Texas-based Livestrong, the largest
athlete-founded charity by donations, has sold 80 million yellow
bracelets to raise awareness of cancer and had $48.4 million in
revenue and earnings in 2010, according to its annual report, a
year after taking in $50.4 million. At least 10 percent to 20
percent of that support might be lost if the allegations against
Armstrong prove true, said Doug White, academic director at  New
York  University’s  Heyman Center  for Philanthropy & Fundraising.  “A lot of support this organization gets is peripheral,
that is to say they’re moved by the moment,” White, 58, said in
a telephone interview. “Those people will be the most likely to
be affected, the most likely to say, ‘Whoops, this is not good,
I’m going to walk away.’”  White said he based his estimate on other major charities
that have faced public discredit. Livestrong may be in even
greater danger because “he is that charity,” White added.  Jennifer Linn, who has battled a rare abdominal cancer
since 2004, is among the steadfast believers in Armstrong’s
message of hope.  Bike Fundraiser  Linn, 40, has relapsed six times since her initial
diagnosis. Inspired by Armstrong and his book, “It’s Not About
the Bike,” she created “ Cycle for Survival ,” a charity indoor
bike-a-thon that’s raised more than $9 million to fight rare
forms of cancer.  “When I talk to people, they say, ‘We don’t care if he
doped,” Linn said in a telephone interview. “What we’re
concerned about is if he takes the cancer movement back 10
steps.”  Livestrong, which until 2009 was known as the  Lance
Armstrong  Foundation, has raised $400 million since its 1997
founding, spokeswoman Katherine McLane said. She said the doping
allegations are “a distraction to our mission.”  “We show up to work every day as devoted as we’ve ever
been to supporting people and families affected by cancer, and
we’re not going to speculate and waste time thinking about what
if,” McLane said in a telephone interview.  ‘Not About Me’  Armstrong, in a statement released by McLane, said
Livestrong “is about 28 million people worldwide who live with
cancer every day. It’s not about me.”  “The reason the foundation has such strong support is
they do great work serving cancer survivors and their families
through some of the hardest times of their lives,” he said.
“That dedication is never going to change.”  Mark Fabiani, Armstrong’s spokesman, referred in an e-mail
to repeated  public denials  of drug use by the cyclist when asked
for comment.  Livestrong was the 358th-ranked charity in 2009, raising
$49.3 million in private support, according to the most recent
figures compiled by the  Chronicle of Philanthropy . It was the
only athlete-founded charity among the top 400.  Short-term Effect  Any financial hit might last only as long as Armstrong is
in the news, especially if Livestrong redefines his role, said
Stacy Palmer, editor of the Washington-based publication.  “They could take steps to change how the foundation
operates to deal with the fact that they don’t want him as their
spokesman,” Palmer said, adding that Livestrong has been around
long enough to survive a scandal surrounding its founder.  People making donations have a right to expect more from
those overseeing the money, said White, who teaches about
philanthropic ethics at NYU.  “We are that sector of society whose sole purpose is to do
good, and so if we’re falling short of that ideal, and in this
particular case, assuming that there’s something that he did
wrong, then it does matter,” White said. “His image is
tarnished and his message is changed.”  Armstrong was diagnosed with cancer in October 1996. He
underwent chemotherapy and returned to professional cycling two
years later. In 1999 he won the first of seven consecutive Tour
de France titles, a record in the 97-year history of cycling’s
biggest race.  Doping Accusations  Doping accusations against Armstrong began shortly after
his first Tour victory, including a French book, “L.A.
Confidential -- The Secrets of Lance Armstrong.” Last year,
 Floyd Landis , who was stripped of his 2006 Tour title after a
positive drug test, accused Armstrong and other former teammates
of using illegal substances.  Hamilton, who handed back his 2004 Olympic gold medal after
his own doping admission, told “60 Minutes” that Armstrong
used endurance-boosting erythropoietin, or EPO, during the Tour
in 1999 and to prepare for the Tour in 2000 and 2001. He also
said he saw Armstrong transfuse blood during the 2000 race. “60
Minutes” reported that Hamilton said the same thing to
investigators under oath.  George Hincapie, Armstrong’s teammate for all seven of his
Tour titles, told federal investigators that he and Armstrong
supplied each other with EPO, “60 Minutes” also said. The
federal investigation of drugs in cycling was reported by the
New York Times in May 2010 and subsequently by media outlets
worldwide.  Hincapie Reaction  Hincapie said in a statement released by his lawyer, David
Anders, that he never spoke with “60 Minutes” and had “no
idea where they got their information.  “As for the substance of anything in the ‘60 Minutes’
story, I cannot comment on anything relating to the ongoing
investigation,” Hincapie said.  Armstrong’s attorneys have demanded an on-air apology from
“60 Minutes,” saying the accusations were “incorrect, false
and broadcast in error.” CBS News said its story was “truthful,
accurate and fair.”  Armstrong retired from professional cycling in February to
focus on Livestrong. According to his  website , he also has
endorsements including  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s Michelob brand,
 Nike Inc. (NKE) , Nissan Motor Co. Ltd., Trek Bicycle Corp. and
 RadioShack Corp. (RSH) , which sponsors the racing team he formed in
2009.  The doping accusations are more likely to hurt his
marketability than his work as a cancer fighter, said David
Abrutyn, global managing director for New York-based IMG
Worldwide Inc.’s consulting unit.  ‘Saved Lives’  “He’s probably saved lives and that puts you on a bit of a
higher plane than being a corporate spokesperson for Michelob,”
Abrutyn, 41, said in a telephone interview. “While it would be
disappointing if all of that was done on the false premise that
he was a winner, the core of the personality and what clearly
was part of his DNA is wanting to give back, and he gave back in
an amount that not many people have.”  Nike, which makes the Livestrong bracelets and clothing,
said in an e-mailed statement that “Our relationship with Lance
remains as strong as ever,” and that the company “does not
condone the use of banned substances.”  Anheuser-Busch said in an e-mailed statement that it
supports Armstrong as an “extraordinary athlete” who is
“admired by millions who lead active lifestyles.”  Investigation Cited  Trek spokesman Bill Mashek declined to comment in an e-mail,
citing the federal investigation, and Nissan spokesman David Reuter said that a 2010 commercial featuring Armstrong was no
longer in the company’s rotation.  RadioShack spokesman Eric Bruner said in an e-mail that
“we recognize the serious nature of the allegations.” He said
the company was “proud of the good work we’ve accomplished with
Livestrong and Team RadioShack.”  The allegations against Armstrong are likely to lead to
concerns about using him as a pitchman, according to Darin David,
an account director at  The Marketing Arm  in  Dallas .  “Yellow has always been the color of the Tour de France
leader and it’s the color associated with Livestrong,” David
said in a telephone interview. “Now, it’s more like yellow is a
caution to brands when associated with him.”  Linn, the charity founder and cancer patient, called
Hamilton’s allegations “very upsetting.”  “I don’t care about the biking (scandal), I just know that
the world will, and that will make me very sad,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 