-- 
Manulife Said to Join Maple Bid for Toronto Stock Exchange

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-06-07T20:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/manulife-financial-said-to-join-maple-group-bid-for-toronto-stock-exchange.html
Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) ,  Canada ’s
largest insurer, joined a group of Canadian banks and pension
funds seeking to buy  TMX Group Inc. (X) , owner of the Toronto Stock
Exchange, according to a person familiar with the negotiations.  Manulife approached the  Maple Group Acquisition Corp.  to be
part of its C$3.58 billion ($3.68 billion) unsolicited bid for
TMX Group, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the talks aren’t public. The Maple Group, whose members
include  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  National Bank of Canada (NA)  and
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, has said it would
“welcome” other investors to counter the sale of TMX to  London
Stock Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)   Maple Group is “talking to a number of participants in the
financial-services industry,” said Peter Block, a spokesman for
the bidding group. He declined to comment on Manulife. Laurie Lupton, a spokeswoman for the Toronto-based insurer, also
declined to comment.  Maple may have been concerned that there wasn’t enough
diversification under the current structure among pension funds
and banks, said Edward Ditmire, an analyst at Macquarie Group
Ltd. in  New York , who rates TMX Group shares “neutral.”  “By broadening the ownership group to include more
companies and more different types of companies, it might allay
some of those concerns,” said Ditmire.  Direct to Investors  Maple approached TMX on May 13 with a proposal to buy the
Canadian exchange owner for C$48 a share in cash and stock. TMX
rejected the offer, saying it wasn’t superior to its Feb. 9
agreement with LSE. Maple responded by taking its offer directly
to TMX shareholders.  The bids for TMX are part of more than $30 billion in
takeover offers for exchanges within six months, as bourses try
to cut costs and generate more revenue from trading in stocks,
options and futures.  Maple Group’s other investors are  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Caisse de Depot et Placement
du Quebec,  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , Alberta Investment
Management Corp., and Fonds de Solidarite FTQ.  TMX shareholders would hold 40 percent of the new company
under the Maple bid, with the pension funds owning 35 percent
and the banks 25 percent, Maple Interim Chief Executive Officer
Luc Bertrand proposed in a May 13  letter  to the TMX.  Other firms in talks to join Maple include Dundee Capital
Markets Inc., GMP Capital Inc., and Desjardins Financial Group,
Dow Jones reported yesterday.  Manulife fell 19 cents to C$16.07 at the 4 p.m. close of
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. TMX Group declined 54
cents to C$44.09.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; Nick
Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  