-- 
Apache May Complete Talks for 85% of Kitimat’s LNG

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 
2011-06-08T02:17:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/apache-may-complete-talks-for-85-of-kitimat-s-lng-sales-1-.html
(Corrects second paragraph of story that originally ran
June 7 to show no contracts have been signed, fourth paragraph
to show Apache purchased the stake in January 2010 and distances
in last paragraph. Adds new fifth paragraph to show current
stakes and year of tentative agreements in sixth paragraph.
Removes reference to pricing formula in seventh paragraph.)  Apache Corp. (APA)  may conclude talks on
the sale of 85 percent of liquefied natural gas from the Kitimat
project in  Canada  this year, a company official said.  The company may give approval for the 5 million metric-ton
facility early next year, Perth-based Mate’ Parentich, general
manager of LNG marketing at Apache, said at the  Asia  Oil and Gas
Conference in  Kuala Lumpur  today. Apache has not signed any
binding contracts for Kitimat gas, said Bill Mintz, a Houston-
based spokesman for the company.  “We will offer stakes in upstream, midstream and
downstream to buyers,” Parentich said. Shipments may start in
2015, he said.  The Houston-based natural-gas producer bought a 51 percent
stake in the Kitimat LNG project in British Columbia in January
2010, aiming to begin shipments in 2014. More than a dozen
liquefied natural gas ventures, which cool the fuel to liquid
form for shipment by tanker, have been proposed in  Australia  to
meet rising Asian demand.  Encana Corp. bought a 30 percent stake in Kitimat in March,
leaving Apache, the operator, with 40 percent and EOG Resources
Inc. with 30 percent.  Korea Gas Corp., the world’s largest buyer of LNG, signed a
non-binding memorandum of understanding in June 2009 to buy as
much as 40 percent of the Kitimat terminal’s exports for 20
years. Gas Natural SDG SA,  Spain ’s biggest gas company, also
signed a preliminary agreement to buy 30 percent, also for 20
years.  Kitimat will price the shale gas-derived LNG in Asia on
oil-linked terms, Parentich said.  With North American gas prices slumping because of rising
supplies and Asian prices propped up by growth in demand, Apache
and its Kitimat partners are seeking higher profits by selling
Canadian gas overseas.  The Kitimat terminal, 400 miles (644 kilometers) northwest
of  Vancouver , British Columbia, expects to ship gas tapped from
fields in the province that has been selling at a discount to
the benchmark price in the U.S. and Canada because of its
distance from major markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  