-- 
Steve Jobs Uses ICloud to Pick Apart Industry He Helped Form

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-06-07T20:33:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/apple-s-jobs-using-icloud-to-dismantle-the-pc-industry-he-helped-build.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs , by introducing a service that shares files across
different Internet-linked devices, takes another step toward
sidelining the personal-computer industry he pioneered.  Jobs, who helped popularize home computers with the Apple
II and the Mac in the 1970s and ‘80s, is counting on the new
iCloud product to let users synchronize and access data on Apple
devices and Windows PCs running iTunes.  Jobs aims to make Apple the center of consumers’ digital
lives, further decreasing dependence on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s once-
dominant Windows software and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s market-
leading PCs. With iCloud, files will be stored by Apple in
remote data centers -- known as the “cloud” in technology
parlance -- and automatically synchronize. That means the same
content is available from any Apple gadget, without it
cluttering up users’ hard drives.  “The PC will be the most visible casualty of the cloud
revolution,” said Steve Perlman, a former Apple engineer and
the CEO of online game company OnLive Inc. “Apple knows it.”  Apple is trying to parlay the success of the iPhone and
iPad into the leading role in the “post-PC” era. Already,
customers have bought 25 million iPad tablets, eating into PC
sales. Both Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard disappointed investors
with their earnings last quarter, hurt in part by tablets
weighing on the industry.  ‘Demote the PC’  In all, Apple has sold more than 200 million iOS devices, a
category that includes the iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch, the
Cupertino, California-based company said yesterday when it
unveiled iCloud. Apple’s App Store now has more than 425,000
applications that work with iOS.  “We’re going to demote the PC and the Mac to just be a
device -- just like an iPad, an iPhone or an iPod Touch,” Jobs,
dressed in a black sweater and jeans, said yesterday. “We’re
going to move the hub of your digital life to the cloud.”  Apple recently completed a $1 billion data center in  North
Carolina  that will serve as the backbone of the iCloud service.
It will help devices synchronize calendar items, contacts, mail,
iTunes songs, photos, apps and other files.  “If you don’t think we’re serious about this, you’re
wrong,” Jobs said while showing pictures of the data center.
Yesterday’s event marked Jobs’s second public appearance of
2011. Though he has been on medical leave since Jan. 17, Jobs
remains involved in Apple’s decision making. His absence is the
third since 2004 as he copes with a rare form of cancer.  Amazon, Google  In racing to the cloud, Apple is competing with  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) , the biggest online retailer, and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software, which runs rival smartphones and tablet computers.  Amazon is the top seller of e-books, and offers its own
cloud service. Google’s Android, meanwhile, runs smartphones
from Samsung Electronics Co., HTC Corp. and Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc.  Android accounted for 36 percent of smartphone
sales in the first quarter of 2011, compared with 17 percent for
iPhone, according to Gartner Inc.  A major piece of Apple’s effort to dislodge the PC is
eliminating the need for customers to plug their devices into a
computer for updates. With the software upgrades announced by
Apple yesterday, devices will synchronize wirelessly. For
example, a picture that’s taken with an iPhone will become
immediately available to view on an iPad or Mac.  “Keeping these devices in sync is driving us crazy,” Jobs
said yesterday.  Closed Ecosystem  The various Internet services Jobs introduced will only
work with Apple’s mobile devices. That improves the chance
customers will stay within its ecosystem of gadgets and
services, said  Gene Munster , an analyst for Piper Jaffray Cos.
in  Minneapolis .  “Apple is increasing the likelihood that consumers buy
multiple Apple devices,” he said in a note to clients.  At the same time, Apple’s closed approach presents an
opportunity for rivals, including Google and online file-storage
service Dropbox Inc., said Marc Benioff, CEO of Salesforce.com
Inc. in San Francisco, which offers cloud services to
businesses. Those competitors can offer services that will work
with different platforms, not just Apple’s, he said.  Apple fell $6, or 1.8 percent, to $332.04 on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. The shares have climbed 2.9 percent this year.  As part of iCloud, Apple introduced a $24.99 music feature
called iTunes Match that will scan every song in users’
libraries and match it with a copy in the cloud. That means
customers don’t have to upload all their music song by song -- a
requirement on services introduced by Google and Amazon.  Free Download  ICloud will be available as a free download when Apple
releases the new version of iOS this fall. The feature will
include 5 gigabytes of free storage for users’ files, plus
unlimited room for purchased apps and books, and recent photos.  The new version of iOS will come with a notification system
to alert users when they get  text messages  and updates from
applications such as Facebook. It also will make it easier to
see Web articles and save them for future reading.  A new Twitter Inc. partnership will help users access the
social-networking service and post photos. And a feature called
Newsstand lets customers purchase and organize newspaper and
magazine subscriptions for the iPad and iPhone.  New Features  Apple also is adding 250 new features to the Mac OS X Lion
software, including more touch-control options and a service
called AirDrop that shares files over Wi-Fi. The Lion operating
system will be available for downloading in July for $29.99.  The company’s earlier foray into Web-based services,
MobileMe, got off to a slow start, dogged by breakdowns,
including one that kept users from sending or receiving e-mails.
MobileMe, with a $99 annual subscription fee, eventually gained
3 million users, according to Forrester Research Inc. That’s a
fraction of the potential customer base for iCloud.  “We learned a lot,” Jobs said yesterday. MobileMe
“wasn’t our finest hour.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  