-- 
Arizona Inaction May Cut Extended Federal Jobless Aid

-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-06-08T21:28:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/arizona-may-cut-federal-jobless-aid-to-15-000-by-failing-to-change-a-word.html
Arizona  may cut off jobless benefits
for about 15,000 people and stop $3 million a week flowing into
the economy unless legislators reconvene to revise a law to
match federal rules as more than half of U.S. states have.  The one-word change would keep extended jobless aid coming
after June 11 under a benefits formula, the state Economic
Security Department has said. Changing the law to conform with
federal rules is needed after Arizona’s unemployment rate fell.  The U.S. pays for extended benefits if a state had at
least 10 percent higher unemployment than three years earlier,
after changing the “look-back” period from 24 months.
Arizona’s April jobless rate at 9.3 percent was unchanged from
the same month in 2009 while almost double April 2008’s 4.9
percent. To keep aid flowing the state must change its look-back
rule, yet Republican lawmakers in Phoenix are reluctant to act.  “There are jobs that people can find, but people are
sitting, waiting for a job like the one they had,” Senate
Majority Whip Steve Pierce said June 3 in a telephone interview,
explaining why he and most of his Republican colleagues oppose
extending benefits. If recipients are cut off, they “would find
something to do,” he said.  Without the alteration in  state law  to look back three
years instead of two, benefits stop after 79 weeks. A 20-week
extension would be available if the change is made, all of it
federally funded. At least 27 states have made similar
revisions, according to the New York-based National Employment
Law Project, a nonprofit advocacy group.  Pending in  Pennsylvania   In Pennsylvania, where 45,000 workers face losing benefits
June 11, the  House of Representatives  this week may take up a
bill extending the aid. The Senate has passed the measure.  North Carolina  recently modified its rules after extended
benefits lapsed in mid-April, renewing aid to jobless workers
there. In  Wisconsin , where aid also ended in April, Governor
 Scott Walker  has asked an advisory panel to back a similar move.  Arizona Democrats and Governor Jan Brewer, a Republican,
haven’t been able to persuade enough members of her party in the
Senate to reconvene this week to deal with the issue. The
Legislature didn’t take it up before adjourning on April 20.  Without the change, another 29,000 workers may lose
benefits by year-end, bringing the total to almost 45,000, and
about $90 million may be kept out of the state’s economy, the
Economic Security Department estimates. The state’s unemployment
rate in April fell from 9.5 percent in March, which was 0.5
percentage points higher than two years earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jobs Decline  The number of jobs available in the U.S. West is falling,
according to data from the Labor Statistics Bureau.  Job openings 
in the region fell to 685,000 in April from 752,000 in March and
723,000 a year earlier, the agency said today.  Brewer “remains supportive” of making sure Arizonans
receive the extended benefits, said Matt Benson, a spokesman for
the governor. Last month, Benson told the  Associated Press  that
she won’t order lawmakers into a special session unless there is
a “broad consensus” among legislators to make the revision.
Passage by a two-thirds majority in each chamber is needed for
the change to be effective immediately.  North Carolina Governor Beverly Perdue, a Democrat, ordered
the benefits restored on June 3 for 47,000 workers through a
change in the rules to match federal law. She didn’t wait for
the Republican-led Legislature because state lawmakers “held
our unemployed workers as hostages by tying the extension of
benefits to my acceptance of budget bills that would inflict
severe and unnecessary cuts to our schools and other essential
programs,” according to a statement on the governor’s website.  Alabama  Change  Lawmakers in Alabama passed a change to permit the longer
look-back on June 2, with little opposition, according to
Representative Jack Williams, a Republican from Vestavia Hills
and a sponsor. He said that about 16,000 people would have lost
benefits this month without the revision, which is expected to
be approved soon by Governor Robert Bentley, another Republican.  “The Feds are going to spend this money and we have folks
in our state who need help,” Williams said. “We are not
talking about 16,000 people sitting on their butts not looking
for work.”  Walker’s push to make the change in Wisconsin was delayed
last week after the advisory panel the Republican had asked to
endorse the move couldn’t muster a quorum, according to the
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel newspaper. In pushing for the change,
Walker stressed that the federal aid wouldn’t have to be repaid.  ‘Craziness’ in Phoenix  House Democrats in Phoenix say letting benefits end hurts
families and keeps money out that would help the local economy.
Minority Leader Chad Campbell said the reluctance to make the
change to permit the extension amounts to “craziness.”  “You’re talking about helping out 15,000-plus people who
are trying to find work,” he said in a telephone interview.
“It is a very simple fix.”  Campbell dismissed the view that some among the unemployed
simply don’t want to work as “a mythical perception.”  Jobless Arizonans are “stuck in a bad economy and trying
to find work,” he said.  Pierce, the Senate Republican, said he thinks that the
 unemployment rate  will fall once benefits run out and recipients
who have been cut off will find jobs.  “If I am wrong, then there is always time later to do
something about it,” he said. 