-- 
Arkema Wins $155.2 Million Cut in Acrylic-Glass Cartel Fine

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-06-07T16:13:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/arkema-wins-reduction-of-antitrust-fine-in-european-union-court.html
Arkema SA (AKE)  won a 105.8 million-euro
($155.2 million) cut in European Union fines for fixing the
price of acrylic glass used in DVDs, while  Total SA (FP)  lost a court
appeal against its liability for part of the overall penalty.  EU regulators wrongly calculated Arkema’s share of a 2006
fine that also penalized its former parent company Total and
related business units, the EU General Court in Luxembourg ruled
today. The reduction for Arkema cuts the total fine to 113.3
million euros from 219.1 million euros.  Total and Arkema in separate appeals challenged the way the
European Commission, the 27 nation EU’s antitrust regulator,
attributed liability to Total for Arkema’s behavior. The court
today rejected Total’s appeal in the case.  Total and Arkema last month lost a challenge at the same
court against price-fixing fines levied in 2008 for colluding
with competitors on prices of sodium chlorate paper bleach.  Arkema shares advanced 0.5 percent to 74.30 euros in Paris
trading. Total rose 0.4 percent to 38.285 euros.  The EU regulator has held parent companies liable for their
subsidiaries’ actions, leading to higher fines because antitrust
penalties for cartels can be as much 10 percent of a company’s
annual sales.  Total spokeswoman Sandra Dante in Paris said the company
will study the ruling before commenting. Arkema spokeswoman
Sybille Chaix didn’t immediately return a voice message left on
her mobile phone.  Parent Liability  The Brussels-based commission welcomes the court’s decision
regarding “parent liability and repeated infringement” and is
satisfied “that it also confirmed the fines on the parent
companies Total and Elf Aquitaine,” spokeswoman Amelia Torres
said in an e-mailed statement.  The fines for Arkema were still calculated based on
guidelines from 1998 and under new fining guidelines from 2006,
calculations are done differently, said the commission.  Arkema  argued  in its appeal that the commission was wrong
to take the annual sales of Total, Arkema’s parent at the time,
as the basis for the fine because Total wasn’t liable “in the
light of the commercial autonomy” Arkema then enjoyed.  The cases are T-217/06, Arkema and Others v. European
Commission; T-206/06, Total and Elf Aquitaine v. European
Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at  aaarons@blo 