-- 
Asian Stocks Swing Between Gains and Losses on Greek Bonds; Toyota Climbs

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-06-07T10:34:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/asian-stocks-decline-for-a-fourth-day-on-concern-global-economy-is-slowing.html
Asian stocks swung between gains and
losses after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
indicated his willingness to sanction bond rollovers in Greece,
helping tame concern the global economic recovery is faltering.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , the Japanese automaker that gets about
18 percent of sales from Europe, added 1 percent.  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  climbed 2.2 percent as the company plants announce
earnings forecasts this week, boosting confidence that the
world’s No. 1 carmaker is recovering after production was
disrupted after the March earthquake.  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,
Australia’s biggest investment bank, sank 2.1 percent after
Citigroup Inc. recommended investors sell the stock.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.1 percent to 133.70 as
of 7:32 p.m. in  Tokyo , erasing a loss of as much as 0.4 percent.
Five stocks climbed for every four that retreated in the gauge.
About $320 billion has been erased from the market value of the
measure since the year’s peak on May 2 amid disappointing
economic data, capped by last week’s U.S. jobs report.  “We seem to be seeing a global synchronized slowdown,”
 Daphne Roth , Singapore-based head of Asian equity research ABN-
Amro Private Bank, said on Bloomberg Television. “Asian markets
are pretty cheap now. We may wait for a couple months until we
can see some direction and that will be a good entry point.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific gauge slid 3 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 2.3 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 1.3 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.5 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13 times for the S&P 500 and
11 times for the Stoxx 600.  Regional Indexes  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 0.1 percent, paring
losses of as much as 0.8 percent. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia
left its benchmark interest rate unchanged for a sixth straight
meeting as signs of moderating employment growth indicate
inflation will stay contained. The nation’s currency declined.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  dropped 0.7 percent. Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index decreased 0.4 percent. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index added 0.6 percent.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average climbed 0.7 percent after
swinging between gains and losses at least 10 times.  Tokyo
Electric  Co., the owner of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant
crippled by the March earthquake and tsunami, rebounded from a
record low after the Japanese government said liquidating the
utility would cause problems and must be avoided.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index last week capped its longest
streak of weekly losses since the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008 as reports showed manufacturing growth
from China, the U.S. and Europe slowed in May, adding to signs
that momentum is weakening in a global economy facing headwinds
from rising commodity costs and financial shocks.  ‘Emerge Stronger’  ECB’s Trichet gave his first signal endorsing measures to
encourage investors to buy new Greek bonds to replace maturing
securities as officials seek to stem the nation’s debt crisis.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel told President Barack Obama the
euro region will overcome its debt crisis and “emerge
strengthened,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, said
after the two leaders met in Washington.  Mazda Corp., the Japanese carmaker that relies on Europe
the most, increased 1 percent to 198 yen in Tokyo.  HTC Corp. (2498) ,
the Taiwanese maker of smartphones that counts Europe as its
second-biggest source of revenue, climbed 3.6 percent to
NT$1,285 in Taipei. Billabong International Ltd., the world’s
biggest surfwear maker that gets 23 percent of sales from Europe,
added 0.7 percent to A$6.12 in Sydney.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.6
percent today. In New York yesterday, the index retreated 1.1
percent to the lowest level since March 18, falling for a fourth
day amid concern economic growth is slowing and the  Federal
Reserve  will boost  capital requirements  for the nation’s largest
banks.  Toyota, Tepco Rallies  Toyota climbed 2.2 percent to 3,285 yen in Tokyo. The
company said it will announce full-year earnings forecasts for
the year ending in March 2012 on June 10 in Tokyo. The carmaker
has delayed the announcement because supply chain disruptions
from the quake have made it difficult to predict production
levels.  Tokyo Electric gained 4.4 percent to 216 yen, after
plunging 28 percent to a record low yesterday. Tepco, as the
utility company is known, rebounded Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yukio Edano said the power company’s liquidation should be
avoided to protect victims of the disaster entitled to
compensation. Edano was responding to comments yesterday by
Tokyo Stock Exchange President  Atsushi Saito , who said Tokyo
Electric should be put into bankruptcy protection.  Hacker Attacks  Sony Corp. (6758) , the maker of PlayStation gaming consoles and
Bravia televisions, dropped 1.5 percent to 2,031 yen in Tokyo,
heading for its fourth day of decline. Sony said its Brazilian
website was attacked by cyber intruders two days after hackers
broke in to its European site. Hacker attacks since April that
had compromised more than 100 million customer accounts may cost
the company 14 billion yen ($175 million).  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest maker of cameras, slumped
2.6 percent to 3,745 yen after announcing it completed a 50
billion yen stock buyback.  Macquarie sank 2.1 percent to A$32 in Sydney after
Citigroup lowered its rating to “sell” from “hold,” saying,
Australia’s biggest investment bank is falling behind rivals in
generating fees for mergers and acquisitions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 