-- 
U.S. Stocks Drop, Treasuries Gain as Bernanke Signals No QE3

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-06-07T21:08:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/asian-commodity-stocks-drop-as-metals-oil-slide-australian-dollar-gains.html
U.S. stocks fell for a fifth day, the
longest drop for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in 11 months,
and Treasuries erased losses as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  gave no sign he is planning new stimulus efforts to
bolster the weakening economy.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.1 percent to
1,284.94 at 4 p.m. in New York, its lowest closing level since
March 18. The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield decreased less than
one basis point to 2.99 percent after rising as much as six
basis points earlier, and two-year yields fell to their 2011 low.
The euro climbed 0.8 percent to $1.4688, the strongest since May
5, as the  European Central Bank  signaled it may back Greek debt
rollovers. Oil climbed on speculation any increase in OPEC
production quotas will reduce spare capacity.  The S&P 500 erased a rally of as much as 0.8 percent,
turning lower in the final 10 minutes of trading, as Bernanke
said in a speech in Atlanta that the economic recovery remains
“uneven” and “frustratingly slow.” While the Fed chief said the
central bank should maintain record monetary stimulus, he gave
no indication he was planning a third round of asset purchases
known as quantitative easing, nicknamed “QE3” by investors.  “Bernanke had a bearish outlook on the state of the
economy,” said Kevin Shacknofsky, who helps manage $7 billion
in Purchase, New York, for Alpine  Mutual Funds . “There may have
been some expectation for him mentioning that QE3 was on the
table. But the key issues were his comments on the poor momentum
of the  U.S. economy  and job growth as well as the risks that any
fiscal austerity measures could damage a fragile economy.”  Slowing Growth  The  S&P 500  is down 5.8 percent from an almost three-year
high at the end of April as signs of a slowing economy spurred
concern analyst estimates for 20 percent earnings growth this
year are too optimistic. The slide has left the index trading at
12.2 times estimated profits of its companies, the cheapest
forward valuation since last summer.  Figures last week showed that payrolls grew at the slowest
pace in eight months, the jobless rate unexpectedly rose to 9.1
percent and a private gauge of manufacturing expanded at the
slowest pace in more than a year.  “The economy is still producing at levels well below its
potential; consequently, accommodative monetary policies are
still needed,” Bernanke, 57, said today in a speech to a
conference in Atlanta. “Until we see a sustained period of
stronger  job creation , we cannot consider the recovery to be
truly established.”  Leading Declines  Cisco Systems Inc.,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Hewlett-
Packard Co. lost at least 1 percent to lead declines in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average , which reversed a gain of as much as 89
points to close down 19.15 points, or 0.2 percent, at 12,070.81.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  rose 1.1 percent after Citigroup Inc. said that
a potential foundry relationship may be forming with Apple Inc.
 International Paper Co. (IP)  made a $3.31 billion hostile bid for
 Temple-Inland Inc. (TIN) , sending the target’s shares up 40 percent.
International Paper, the world’s largest pulp-and-paper maker,
advanced 0.4 percent.  Treasury two-year yields dropped two basis points to 0.41
percent. Yields on three-year notes dropped for a third day,
slipping three basis points to 0.69 percent, after the U.S.
government’s $32 billion auction of the debt drew the highest
demand from a group including foreign central banks in five
months. Longer-term debt yields were little changed before the
$21 billion sale of 10-year notes tomorrow and the $13 billion
30-year bond offering June 9.  Euro Gains  The euro advanced 0.8 percent against the yen and
appreciated versus 12 of its 16 most-traded peers. The dollar
weakened against 11 of 16 major counterparts.  The ECB isn’t opposed to private-sector creditors being
asked to “maintain their level of outstanding credit,” ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said in  Montreal  yesterday, the
first sign he endorsed measures to encourage investors to buy
new Greek debt to replace maturing securities. German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  told U.S. President  Barack Obama  yesterday that
the 17-nation euro region will overcome its debt crisis.  Most European stocks declined, with the benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index falling 0.1 percent to near a 10-week low, as
losses in retail shares offset gains in  utility companies . Tesco
Plc and Home Retail Group Plc fell as a report showed U.K.
retail sales declined last month. Utilities posted the best
performance among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600, gaining
1.2 percent. Mitchells & Butlers Plc surged 3.8 percent after a
report that a group of investors may bid for the pub and
restaurant owner.  Oil Erases Drop  Oil erased declines in the final 90 seconds of trading,
rising 8 cents to $99.09 a barrel. The S&P GSCI Index gained 0.7
percent as sugar, brent crude and lean hogs climbed more than 2
percent to lead gains in 17 of 24 commodities tracked by the
index, while cotton and wheat lost at least 1.3 percent for the
biggest declines.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 0.3 percent, after
earlier falling more than 0.5 percent. Benchmark gauges in
Russia and  Turkey  advanced more than 1 percent.  South Korea ’s Kospi index dropped 0.7 percent and the won
weakened against most major peers as the nation’s financial
markets traded for the first time since a June 3 report showed
slower-than-expected growth in U.S. payrolls.  Thailand ’s SET
Index lost 1.1 percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered
its rating on the country’s stocks.  The Australian dollar slipped against 10 of its major
counterparts after policy makers kept the nation’s benchmark
interest rate unchanged for a sixth consecutive meeting and said
current settings were appropriate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at   chrisnagi@bloomberg.net . 