-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: World Grain Supplies Seen Smaller

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-06-07T22:12:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/asia-commodity-day-ahead-world-grain-supplies-seen-smaller.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  International Grains Council Reduces Wheat, Corn Estimates (1)  Global wheat and corn output will be lower than estimated
two weeks ago on drought in  Europe  and wet weather in the U.S.,
the International Grains Council said.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Codelco Will Miss Quarterly Copper Target After Teniente Dispute  Codelco, the world’s largest copper company, will miss its
second-quarter production target as protests by contract workers
disrupt operations at a mine in central  Chile , said Chief
Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez .  Brady Sees Sales Gains on Demand for Commodity-Trading Software  Brady Plc, a provider of commodity-trading software to
clients including Sucden Financial and Mitsubishi Corp., said
revenue will jump 60 percent this year.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises for Third Day on Signs Long-Term Use to Top Output  Copper futures rose for the third straight session on signs
that global demand will outpace production in the long term.  Copper Has Peaked for 2011 as World Well-Supplied, JPMorgan Says  Copper prices may have peaked this year because the market
is “well-balanced,” said Michael Jansen, the head of metals
research at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Copper’s High-Price Cycle to Last for Years, Codelco Says (1)  Copper’s current cycle of high prices will last “a
substantial amount of years” because of rising demand from
 China  and other  developing countries , according to Diego
Hernandez, the chief executive officer of Codelco, the world’s
largest producer.  MINING:  Ferrexpo Rises as Merrill Lynch Sees Higher  Iron-Ore  Prices (1)  Ferrexpo Plc, a producer of iron ore in Ukraine, rose to an
almost four-week high in London trading after Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said market supply of the material will
“disappoint” expectations, pushing up prices.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Falls From Five-Week High as Europe Debt Concerns Ease  Gold futures fell from a five-week high as European debt
concerns eased, eroding the appeal of the precious metal as a
haven.  AGRICULTURE:  Cotton Futures Drop as U.S. Exports Ebb;  Orange Juice  Declines  Cotton fell the most allowed by the exchange amid signs of
slack overseas demand for fiber from the U.S., the world’s
leading shipper. Orange juice also declined.  Corn, Soybeans Rise on Speculation Rain Will Cut U.S. Acreage  Corn rose for the first time in three sessions and soybeans
gained on speculation that some U.S. farmers will leave land
fallow this year after rains delayed planting.  Hogs Surge as Heat May Lower Weights, Pork Supply; Cattle Gain  Hog futures had the biggest gain in almost eight weeks on
speculation that hot weather in the U.S. Midwest will curb
animal weights, reducing pork supplies. Cattle prices climbed.  Sugar Rises to Seven-Week High on Supply Concerns; Coffee Gains  Sugar rose to a seven-week high on concern that output in
 Brazil , the world’s top producer, will trail forecasts. Coffee
and cocoa also gained.  Wheat Falls as Southern U.S. Great Plains Harvest Accelerates  Wheat futures fell to a three-week low on speculation that
yields may be better than expected in the southern Great Plains
of the U.S. as farmers step up the harvest of crops planted last
year.  EU May Add to Proposed $220 Million Aid Package for Farmers (1)  The European Commission may make an “improved proposal”
for aid to vegetable growers faced with slumping demand
following a deadly outbreak of E. coli in  Germany  after some
member states balked at an initial offer of 150 million euros
($220 million).  SHIPPING:  India ,  South America  Shipping Demand to Fall 53%, Fearnley Says  Demand to export commodities from India and South America
by sea will drop 53 percent within the next three months,
shipbroker Astrup Fearnley A/S predicted.  Panamax Prices to Fall 10% Next Year, Maritime Strategies Says  Buying prices for new panama commodity-hauling ships will
drop 10 percent by the end of next year as slumping charter
rates curb owners’ vessel purchases, said Maritime Strategies
International Ltd.  ECONOMIES:  Yuan Gain Accelerating Seen as Inflation to Jump: China Credit  Yuan forwards are indicating the least appreciation in nine
months for the coming year just as banks predict gains will
accelerate because of a surge in inflation and the  trade
surplus .  Fed Said to Back Three Percentage-Point Fee for Big Banks (1)  The  Federal Reserve  supports a proposal at the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  that calls for a maximum
capital surcharge of three percentage points on the largest
global banks, according to a person familiar with the
discussions.  Job Openings in U.S. Drop for First Time in Three Months (2)  Job openings in the U.S. decreased in April for the first
time in three months, showing companies started to lose
confidence in the expansion’s durability even before hiring
slumped in May.  OTHER MARKETS:  Dollar Falls as Bernanke Says Economy Remains in Need of Boost  The dollar fell against most its major counterparts as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank
should maintain record monetary stimulus to boost an “uneven”
and “frustratingly slow” economic recovery.  U.S. Stocks Drop as Bernanke Gives No Hint of New Stimulus Plan  U.S. stocks fell a fifth day, the longest slump for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in almost a year, as Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke gave no hint of a new round of economic
stimulus even as the recovery slows.  Obama Says European Debt Crisis Must Not Endanger Recovery (2)  President  Barack Obama  urged European leaders to resolve
the continent’s debt crisis quickly to avoid endangering the
global economy.  U.S. Raises Its 2011 Natural Gas Output Forecast by 2.2% (1)  The U.S. raised its forecast for natural gas production in
2011 by 2.2 percent and increased its outlook for prices.  Oil Rises Amid Concern That OPEC Spare Capacity Will Tighten  Oil edged higher in  New York  and surged the most in almost
two weeks in  London  amid speculation that an increase in OPEC
production quotas will reduce spare capacity and cause tight
supplies when demand rebounds.  SPORTS:  Tiger Woods  to Skip Next Week’s  U.S. Open  With Knee Injury (1)  Tiger Woods said he will skip next week’s U.S. Open golf
championship as he recovers from knee and ankle injuries.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 