-- 
Korean Won Drops as Recovery Falters; Rupee Advances on Stocks

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-06-07T09:38:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/asian-currencies-weaken-on-signs-economic-recovery-faltering-europe-debt.html
South Korea ’s won declined on concern
regional exports will suffer after weaker U.S. employment and
manufacturing data signaled the global recovery is faltering.
Other Asian currencies were little changed.  U.S. payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months in
May and the jobless rate unexpectedly climbed to the highest
level this year, Labor Department data on June 3 showed.
Currencies in the region erased losses after the MSCI Asia-
Pacific Index of shares reversed a decline as the European Union
prepares a second bailout for Greece.  “Investors are still cautious,” said Norawit Suparinayok,
a foreign-exchange trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl. “If you look at
the U.S. economic data it’s not good. If you look at  Europe , the
sovereign-debt issue still remains.”  The won weakened 0.2 percent to 1,082.05 per dollar at the
3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, was little
changed at 118.64 after dropping 0.1 percent earlier.  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
yesterday indicated his willingness to sanction bond rollovers
in Greece. Efforts to resolve Greece’s debt crisis are being
complicated by a failure by European regulators to make banks
raise enough capital to withstand a default. The “fragilities”
of Europe’s banking industry mean a Greek default isn’t an
option, European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said last week.  Indonesian, Korean Rates  Economists are divided over whether Bank of Korea will lift
its policy rate when it meets on June 10. Six expect a quarter
of a percentage point increase to 3.25 percent, while six
predict no change.  India’s rupee advanced 0.2 percent to 44.6863 per dollar.
Global funds bought an average $123 million more local stocks
than they sold last week, the most since April 21, exchange data
show. The ICE Dollar Index fell 0.4 percent.  “The rupee is maintaining a bias for gradual near-term
appreciation as stock inflows have improved,” said Sudarshan Bhatt, chief currency trader at  Corporation Bank  in Mumbai.
“The weaker dollar is also supporting gains in the rupee.”  Indonesia ’s rupiah was little changed after global funds
sold $30 million more Indonesian shares than they bought
yesterday. All 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
central bank to leave its benchmark rate unchanged at 6.75
percent on June 9. The currency held at 8,513 per dollar.  “The higher  unemployment rate  in the U.S. is causing
negative sentiment in the market,” said Mika Martumpal, a
currency analyst at PT Bank Commonwealth in Jakarta. “Investors
are reducing their positions in higher-yielding assets.”  Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit traded at 3.0075 per dollar
versus 3.0085 yesterday. The  Philippine peso  gained 0.2 percent
to 43.15 and the  Thai baht  was unchanged at 30.29. Singapore’s
dollar climbed 0.1 percent to S$1.2293, while  China ’s yuan was
little changed at 6.4810.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  