-- 
Aurelius Squeezed Out for a ‘Few Cents’ at AIB, Lawyer Says

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-06-07T13:58:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/aurelius-to-proceed-with-debt-case-against-ireland-on-aib.html
Aurelius Capital Management LP will
challenge a court order changing the terms on  Allied Irish Banks
Plc (ALBK) ’s subordinated debt, a lawyer for the investor said.  Bondholders are being squeezed out for “a few cents” with
“no opportunity to participate in the future fortunes of the
bank,” John Gordon, a lawyer for Aurelius, said at a hearing in
the Dublin-based High Court today. The Irish government in April
won a court order allowing it to make some interest payments on
Allied Irish debt optional, and extend the maturity of some of
the debt until 2035.  Allied Irish said on May 11 that investors holding about
$3.7 billion of junior debt who refuse an offer that would
impose losses on them of as much as 90 percent may be paid as
little as 1 cent for every $1,000 of face value of their notes.
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  has said the challenge is
“unfounded” and that investors face “severe measures” if the
buyback plan doesn’t sufficiently reduce the bank’s liabilities.
The bank was ordered by regulators to raise 13.3 billion euros
to bolster its reserves against mounting loan losses.  Gordon told the court that, while his clients don’t object
to burden sharing, the government can’t use extraordinary
legislation to impinge their property rights. New York-based
investment firm Abadi & Co. said last week that it would
withdraw its challenge because it had to decide whether to
accept Dublin-based Allied Irish’s debt buyback offer by June 9,
before the court could rule on the case.  Debt Terms  Laws enacted last year allowing the Finance Minister to
obtain court orders amending junior debt terms are meant to
comply with the European Union’s so-called Credit Institutions
(Winding-Up) Directive, transposed into Irish law in 2004.
Gordon said Ireland didn’t comply with the law by publishing the
order on time in the EU’s official journal.  Brian Murray, a lawyer for the government, said Aurelius
made its appeal within the five-day window for challenges to the
order.  The regulator’s 13.3 billion-euro capital requirement
results in a “super-capitalization” of Allied Irish beyond
what is required elsewhere in  Europe , said Gordon, adding that
the stated purpose of last year’s act is to “ preserve or
restore  the financial position” of certain banks.  Judge John Cooke said that because Aurelius only owns two
of the 18 subordinated-debt classes covered by the April order,
that even if their case is successful the order may stand for
the other 16 categories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  