-- 
Australia’s Central Bank Holds Key Rate, Sees Little Urgency to Increase

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-06-07T06:09:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/australia-central-bank-leaves-key-rate-at-4-75-to-gauge-asia-growth-risk.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  left
its benchmark interest rate unchanged for a sixth straight
meeting and signaled little urgency to increase borrowing costs
as a stronger currency helps contain inflation.  Central bank Governor Glenn Stevens today held the
overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent in Sydney, as
forecast by 23 of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. In a
statement after the decision, he said “inflation will be close
to target over the next 12 months.”  The Australian dollar reversed earlier gains and investors
slashed bets the RBA will raise rates in the third quarter. The
nation recorded its weakest job growth since 1999 in the first
four months of this year as manufacturing, services and
construction lag behind a  mining industry  that is expanding to
meet Chinese demand for raw materials.  “The statement had a less hawkish feel than previously --
slower employment growth and investment intentions outside the
resource sector being revised lower,” said  Michael Turner , an
economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney. “It looks like
a July rate increase is off the table.”  The local dollar fell to $1.0687 as of 4:07 p.m. in Sydney
from $1.0744 before the decision, and the Australian government
two-year bond’s yield dropped six basis points to 4.82 percent,
the biggest decline since May 23. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index pared a loss of as much as 0.8 percent before the decision
and was little changed at 3:21 p.m. in Sydney.  Rate Predictions  Traders bet there is a 10 percent chance Stevens will
increase borrowing costs in July, down from 38 percent before
today’s announcement, and a 28 percent chance in August, a
decline from 60 percent.  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD
Securities Ltd. in  Singapore , said “it appears that the markets
are overstating the dovishness” of today’s statement. She said
the RBA’s bias toward raising rates is “intact” and that it’s
likely to make the next move in August.  Stevens said today’s decision reflects “softened” prices
for raw materials and an  unemployment rate  that’s been little
changed near 5 percent. Consumer prices that were boosted by
natural disasters earlier this year aren’t expected to
accelerate much above the RBA’s inflation target range of 2
percent to 3 percent, he said.  “The weather-affected prices should fall back later in the
year, though substantial rises in utilities prices are still
occurring,” Stevens said in the statement. “The bank expects
that, as the temporary price shocks dissipate over the coming
quarters, CPI inflation will be close to target over the next 12
months.”  Record Currency  The central bank has relied on the Australian dollar’s
strength to tighten monetary conditions. The local currency
reached $1.1012 on May 2, the highest since exchange controls
were scrapped in 1983.  In a quarterly policy statement on May 6, the RBA said
interest rates will need to rise “at some point” to contain
inflation. That phrase wasn’t in today’s statement.  The RBA has expressed concern that higher consumption will
clash with capacity constraints such as skill shortages caused
by mining and energy investment that the government estimates
will reach A$76 billion ($81 billion) next fiscal year. Stevens
today noted that companies not in mining or energy industries
aren’t as optimistic.  “Outside the resources sector, investment intentions have
been revised lower recently,” he said. “The  exchange rate 
remains, in real effective terms, close to its highest level in
several decades. If sustained, this could be expected to exert
continued restraint on the traded sector.”  RBA Tightening  Stevens has sought to restrain household spending, which
accounts for 55 percent of Australia’s economy, with 175 basis
points of rate increases from October 2009 to November, letting
the resources boom drive growth. A June 2 report showing the
biggest jump in retail sales in 17 months signaled higher
incomes are encouraging consumers to spend more.  Australia’s minimum wage was increased 3.4 percent to
A$589.30 a week, the national workplace relations tribunal said
June 3. The wage price index rose 3.8 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, the government reported May 18.  The nation’s economy shrank 1.2 percent in the first
quarter, the most since 1991, as floods in the northeast slashed
coal exports, a June 1 report showed. Even so, bonds fell the
most in almost four months after the data as investors focused
on final demand, the broadest measure of spending by government,
consumers and businesses, which more than doubled to 1.3
percent.  Stevens has held rates in part to allow the economy in
Queensland state to recover from January floods that Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  called the nation’s most expensive
natural disaster.  In today’s statement, Stevens said the GDP report showed a
“solid increase in aggregate demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  