-- 
Australia to Ban Cattle Exports to Indonesia

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-06-08T05:23:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/australia-to-ban-cattle-exports-to-indonesia.html
Australia  suspended live cattle
exports to Indonesia, its biggest market, for as long as six
months on concern animals are being tortured.  The government strengthened a suspension announced last
week that covered some abattoirs in Indonesia. The earlier
decision followed a  Four Corners television program showing 
animals being mistreated. Lawmakers, facing community outrage,
pressured the government to impose a full ban.  “The community doesn’t accept the animal welfare outcomes
we saw on television,” Australian Agriculture Minister Joe Ludwig told reporters in Brisbane today. “Nobody accepts we
should continue a trade with those animal welfare outcomes. We
need to do better.”  Annual live cattle exports to Indonesia, which buys about
60 percent of Australia’s cattle shipments, contributed A$319
million ($340 million) to the country’s economy in 2010,
according to  Meat & Livestock Australia . Total live cattle
exports are forecast by the government at A$753 million in the
12 months ending June 30, 2012.  The ban will “severely impact” Western Australia’s A$250
million a year live export beef industry if Indonesia looks to
import cattle from other countries, state Agriculture and Food
Minister Terry Redman said in an e-mailed statement today.  “A suspension could simply mean Indonesia will take cattle
from people who don’t care as much as we do,” Redman said.
Western Australia exported 370,000 head of cattle last year,
with about 80 percent going to Indonesia, he said.  Alternative Supplies  Indonesia said last week that while it would try to meet
Australia’s concerns over the cattle trade, it may seek
alternative suppliers such as Brazil or  Canada  if the issue
continued. The nation may import about 600,000 live cattle in
total this year, according to Deputy Minister of Agriculture
Bayu Krisnamurthi.  “Clearly there will be impacts on the industry,” Ludwig
said, without outlining any compensation. “We will all work
together. We will ensure we have a sustainable future for this
industry.”  The livestock industry will implement a ‘controlled
system,’ including welfare officers at Indonesian processing
facilities and increasing the use of stunning animals in
abattoirs, to ensure trade can continue,  Meat & Livestock
Australia  and  LiveCorp  said in a statement today.  Prices May Fall  Prices may fall in Australia’s domestic cattle market
because of the ban, according to Michael Creed, an agribusiness
economist at  National Australia Bank Ltd.  The extent of the
decline may be limited if Indonesia is close to meeting its
import quota of about 500,000 head of cattle, he said in a phone
interview from  Melbourne .  “It will certainly be a hit but there will be some other
offsetting effects,” Creed said. “You would expect them to
lift their import of processed beef and on top of that live
cattle exports to the  Middle East  have grown quite strongly over
the past couple of years.”  Australia’s benchmark Eastern Young Cattle Market Indicator
rose 0.3 percent to A$3.855 a kilogram yesterday. That follows a
2.2 percent loss last week.  Australian Agricultural Co. Ltd., a cattle producer and
breeder, was placed in a trading halt ahead of Ludwig’s
statement.  Blunt Knives  Television footage aired May 30 showed cattle in Indonesian
slaughterhouses being kicked and whipped. One cow, which broke
its leg on the abattoir’s floor, had its tail broken, eyes
gouged and water poured in its nostrils. Some cattle were
slaughtered with blunt knives, the footage showed.  Animal welfare organizations  Animals Australia , which
provided the abattoir footage to the Australian Broadcasting
Corp., and the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals called for an immediate stop to the cattle trade to
 Indonesia  and a  ban  on all live exports, according to a
 statement  on the RSPCA website. Facilities in the video breached
international standards, the  RSPCA  said.  “The announcement will cause an immediate drop in the
cattle market across Australia and devalue existing meat in
stores,” opposition agriculture minister John Cobb said in an
e-mailed statement. “Bans on live exports do not result in new
markets for frozen or boxed meats.”  An independent reviewer will be appointed to investigate
the export of live cattle and the conditions under which they’re
slaughtered, Ludwig said. The country shipped 148,000 live
cattle overseas in the three months to March 31, according to
the  Australian Bureau of Statistics .  Government Talks  Australia held discussions with Indonesia’s government
about the ban, Ludwig said. The animals are “being tortured”
and the government’s initial ban was ineffective, independent
lawmaker Nick Xenophon told Bloomberg Television on June 1.  Xenophon and independent lawmaker  Andrew Wilkie  said last
week they’ll introduce a bill banning live cattle exports to the
Asian nation. Greens lawmaker  Adam Bandt  will introduce a
separate bill seeking a complete ban on live-animal exports from
Australia, according to a statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  