-- 
Retail Sales in Australia to Rise From Two-Decade Low, Access Report Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-06-07T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/australia-retail-sales-to-rise-from-two-decade-low-access-says.html
Australian retail sales will rebound
from a 20-year low next fiscal year as resource-fueled hiring
and wage growth outpace higher household savings, according to a
Deloitte Access Economics report.  Retail sales will advance 1.3 percent in the 12 months
ending June 30, the worst fiscal-year result in two decades, the
Canberra-based research company said in a report today. Sales
will gain 2.2 percent in 2011-12 and 3.3 percent in 2012-13 as
the household savings rate levels out, it said.  Australia ’s “economic strength will help support a robust
rate of jobs growth,” said David Rumbens, an analyst at Access.
“Dividends from the resources boom may be difficult to
separately identify for most retailers, but they will be
supporting a range of broad economic indicators, such as jobs,
wage growth, profits and government revenues.”  Australian retail sales surged in April by the most in 17
months as the economy recovered from its worst quarterly
contraction in two decades.  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , the nation’s
biggest retailer, said in April that third-quarter sales rose
5.1 percent on higher demand at its supermarkets.  Australian employers probably added 25,000 workers last
month and the jobless rate held at 4.9 percent, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists
ahead of a June 9 employment report.  Resource and energy companies have boosted hiring to meet
demand from  China  in what the Australian government calls the
nation’s biggest mining boom.  Retail sales, adjusted to remove inflation, stagnated in
the three months through March 31 from the previous quarter, a
report showed last month. Australia’s household savings ratio
climbed to 11.5 percent in the three months through March, the
highest since 2009.  “Retail sales are weak at present, but it’s not all
necessarily bad news looking forward,” Rumbens said.
“Australia is, after all, in the midst of an unprecedented
resources boom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  