-- 
Babacan Says Turkey ‘Serious’ on Loan Curbs, Current Account

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-06-07T10:34:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/babacan-says-turkey-serious-on-loan-curbs-current-account-1-.html
Turkey  is “serious” about curbing
credit growth and the current-account gap and will use the
budget and possibly sanctions on individual banks to ensure its
goals are met, Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  said.  Turkey aims to produce revised budget targets before
September that will be framed with the central goal of ensuring
the current-account deficit remains sustainable, Babacan said in
an interview in Ankara with Bloomberg HT television today.  Turkey’s credit rating may come under pressure if it has
difficulty financing the current-account gap, Moody’s Investors
Service said yesterday, urging the government to tighten the
budget after this week’s parliamentary elections. The deficit,
forecast by the government to widen this year to $39.3 billion,
or 5.4 percent of gross domestic product, reached $60.5 billion
in the 12 months through March as economic expansion boosted
demand for oil, gas and imported consumer goods.  Babacan said financial authorities will ensure that bank
lending expands by no more than 25 percent this year to rein in
domestic demand. The Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency
will become more active and may consider steps against
individual lenders and make use of new instruments, he said.  The government expects to exceed its revenue targets as
faster-than-forecast growth and a tax amnesty draw in income,
Babacan said. The plans may include spending cuts and will treat
tax increases as a “last option” because they can accelerate
inflation, he said.  Moody’s rates Turkish credit Ba2 with a positive outlook.
Ba2 is the risk-assessor’s second-highest non-investment grade.
 Standard & Poor’s  rates the country an equivalent BB, also with
a positive outlook, and  Fitch Ratings  ranks Turkey as BB+, one
notch below investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 