-- 
Bahrain Bourse Plans Short-Selling, DvP Next Year to Boost Trading Volumes

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-06-07T13:10:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/bahrain-bourse-plans-short-selling-dvp-next-year-to-boost-trading-volumes.html
Bahrain’s exchange plans to start
short-selling and the so-called delivery-versus-payment system
in 2012, criteria for an upgrade at  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , as it seeks to
boost trading volumes amid unrest in the Middle East.  "The changes will lead us eventually to meet the criteria"
at the index provider, Khalifa Bin Ebrahim  Al Khalifa , deputy
director at  Bahrain Bourse , said in an interview at the
Bloomberg office in Dubai today. "We have a competitive
advantage against the regional  stock exchanges ; with these
changes, we’ll have even more."  The measures will be implemented in the first quarter of
2012, and DvP will be started "to an extent," he said. Bahrain
has no foreign ownership limits in stocks, Al Khalifa said,
unlike Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, which also have
frontier market status at MSCI.  The index provider will announce on June 21 its decision on
whether to upgrade the U.A.E. and Qatar to emerging market
status after the exchanges introduced the DvP system. Popular
demonstrations that toppled leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia  and
reached Bahrain have hurt the Middle East’s financial markets,
with the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  losing 3.9 percent this year.
That compares with a 2.6 percent gain for the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index.  Trading volume on Bahrain’s bourse was 572,800 shares
today. That compares with a 12-month daily average of 1.7
million shares.  MSCI classifies six of the Gulf’s seven bourses as frontier
markets, a designation that typically applies to economies and
financial markets that are less developed than emerging markets
and that have more restrictions on foreign stock ownership.
 Saudi Arabia ’s market is not categorized.  Market Recovery  "External factors including the current political climate
in the GCC and the  Middle East " are affecting volumes in
Bahrain, Al Khalifa said. "We don’t expect the market to recover
in coming months, but we expect the natural cycle of economy to
take place."  The BB All Share Index retreated 6.5 percent this year as
the nation witnessed anti-government protests and imposed a
three-month state of emergency in March. The measure rose 0.5
percent today after dropping to 1,332.48 yesterday, the lowest
close since July 2004, when Bloomberg began tracking the index.  Delivery-versus-payment is a securities industry procedure
in which payment for a security must be made when the security
is delivered. Usually, the payment is made to a bank, which in
turn pays for the security. Short sellers borrow and sell an
asset, hoping to profit by buying it back later for less.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  