-- 
Barnes & Noble Sues to Block LSI Patent Royalty Claims on Nook

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-06-07T18:40:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/barnes-noble-sues-to-block-lsi-patent-royalty-claims-on-nook.html
Barnes & Noble Inc., the largest U.S.
bookstore chain, sued  LSI Corp. (LSI)  to prevent the chipmaker from
demanding patent royalties on sales of the Nook digital reader.  LSI notified Barnes & Noble on June 29, 2010, and at other
times “its intention to pursue claims of infringement of the
LSI patents,” the New York-based bookseller said in a complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in  San Francisco .  The preemptive move reflects the legal headaches Barnes &
Noble is facing since it began manufacturing a technology gadget
in 2009, branching out from its traditional business as a
retailer of books and other products. The company was named in
14 patent-infringement lawsuits last year, up from three in
2008, according to Bloomberg Law data. Including LSI, the
company is involved in nine complaints so far this year.  “If you’re a book company, you never get sued,” said
Robert Yoches, a patent lawyer at Finnegan Henderson in
 Washington  who specializes in electronics cases. “Then you move
online and you get sued a little bit. Now you’ve got an
electronic box. As you add features, it becomes more like a
computer.”  Electronic devices are more frequently the target of patent
suits and royalty demands because the products typically include
thousands of features and circuits, many of which are covered by
patents, he said.  LSI Chips  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble,
declined to comment on the case. The company is seeking an order
that it isn’t using technology covered by 10 LSI patents.  “Barnes & Noble does not infringe and has not infringed
the LSI patents,” the company said in the filing.  LSI makes chips used in computer disk drives and reported
$2.57 billion in revenue last year. The patents cited in the
lawsuit include technology for wireless local-area networks,
ways to enhance communications, and a DVD audio decoder.  Derrick Meyer, a spokesman for the Milpitas, California-
based company, didn’t immediately return a telephone call
seeking comment.  Barnes & Noble Chief Executive Officer William Lynch said
the Nook is the second-best selling tablet in the U.S. behind
Apple Inc.’s iPad. Barnes & Noble last month unveiled a smaller,
lower-cost Nook in an effort to boost its market share in
digital readers.  Barnes & Noble’s digital push showed enough promise to
solicit a takeover bid from  John Malone ’s Liberty Media Corp.
last month that values the company at about $1 billion. The
offer was the first made public since the bookseller began a
strategic review last year.  Microsoft Case  Barnes & Noble in July sued Xerox Corp. and Alcatel-Lucent
SA seeking rulings that it doesn’t have to pay patent royalties
to those companies.  The biggest patent dispute for Barnes & Noble is one
brought by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which filed a complaint in March at
the U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington seeking to
block imports of the Nook. Microsoft claims any electronics that
run on Google Inc.’s Android operating system, including the
Nook, infringe its patents and is demanding licensing fees.  Digital books increased to 8 percent of the U.S. trade-book
market last year, from 3 percent a year earlier as sales more
than doubled to $441.3 million, according to the Association of
American Publishers.  The case is  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , 11cv02709, U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  