-- 
Belarus Gold, Currency Reserves Fall to Lowest in 20 Months

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-06-07T16:36:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/belarus-gold-currency-reserves-fall-most-since-february-1-.html
Belarus’s gold and foreign-currency
reserves declined in May to their lowest level since August 2009
after the ruble lost more than a third of its value against the
dollar.  Reserves fell $200.4 million to $3.59 billion, the Minsk-
based regulator  said  today in a statement on its website, citing
calculations under International Monetary Fund standards. The
decline “is linked to the national bank’s and the government of
Belarus’s external and internal operations in  foreign currency ,”
the bank said.  Belarus hopes to reach agreement with the Washington-based
IMF later this year on a new lending program to help cover a
shortage of foreign currency. The Russian-led Eurasian Economic
Community agreed June 4 to lend Belarus $3 billion for 10 years
to help cover the country’s current-account deficit, which
reached 16 percent of gross domestic product last year.  The Russian-led loan is conditional on Belarus taking steps
to increase inflows of capital, including $7.5 billion in state
asset sales over the next three years, Russian Finance Minister
Alexei Kudrin said June 4 in Kiev.  Belarus, which devalued the ruble by 36 percent against the
dollar last month, may need 15 to 18 months to resolve its
monetary crisis, Deputy Russian Finance Minister Sergei Storchak
told reporters today in Moscow. The asset sales are one of 15
measures stipulated in the agreement, he said.  “They will be able to overcome the problems that are of a
monetary nature fairly quickly,” thanks to the country’s labor
productivity and social stability, said Storchak, who is also
 Russia ’s representative to the IMF.  Belarus’s sovereign bond due 2015 fell, ending four days of
gains and pushing the yield up 41 basis points to 11.06 percent
as of 6:26 p.m. in Minsk.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  