-- 
Five Belarusians Fined After Protest at Fuel-Price Increase

-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 
2011-06-08T15:19:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/belarusians-protest-fuel-price-increase-with-minsk-car-blockade.html
Belarus fined five people for staging
a car blockade in the capital, Minsk, after gasoline prices
jumped, the first show of public dissent since demonstrators
were jailed for protesting the results of last year’s elections.  President Alexander Lukashenko today ordered that maximum
gasoline prices be restored to their original levels after they
were increased by an average of 31 percent yesterday.  More than 100 cars blocked a 2-kilometer (1.2-mile) stretch
of Independence Avenue, the city’s main artery, for two hours
yesterday, with onlookers cheering them on. Police held five
overnight and transferred them today to the Centralny district
court, where they were found guilty of participating in
unsanctioned picketing and fined as much as 700,000 rubles ($141
dollars at the official central  bank rate ).  Lukashenko’s regime, dubbed the “last dictatorship in
 Europe ” by the administration of former U.S. President  George W. Bush , devalued its currency by 36 percent against the dollar
last month. The leader, who has ruled Belarus since 1994, gained
a fourth term after a Dec. 19 election that the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe said wasn’t free or fair.  “The government probably wants to solve its financial
problems this way,” said Marianna Gruzdilovich, whose son
Pavel, 28, was among those fined today. Supporters of the
protesters created a website to collect donations to help pay
the fines.  Gasoline Prices Jump  The retail price of 95-octane gasoline rose to 5,800 rubles
per liter, state-owned energy group  Belneftekhim  said in a
statement yesterday.  Prices must not exceed 4,500 rubles from tomorrow,
Lukashenko told a government meeting today, Interfax reported.  “If you need, add 2 percent to 3 percent to gasoline prices
each quarter, but not 30 percent,” Luakshenko said, the news
service said.  Traffic returned to normal by 9:45 p.m. yesterday. Drivers,
with cars flying white ribbons from radio antennas, had started
the protest by pretending to have broken down.  Belarus has asked the  International Monetary Fund  and the
Russian-led Eurasian Economic Community for loans as the ruble
slumps and the current-account deficit widens. The shortfall,
the widest measure of money flowing in and out of a country,
reached 16 percent of gross domestic product last year, more
than  Greece ’s.  Political Repression  Moody’s Investors Service rates the country’s sovereign
debt at B2, five steps below investment grade and on par with
Honduras and  Venezuela .  U.S. President  Barack Obama  on May 28 said Belarus, a
country of 10 million wedged between Russia and European Union
member Poland, was “backsliding” as political repression
intensifies, which may harm other countries in the region.  The U.S. will pursue new sanctions against some Belarusian
state-owned companies in addition to travel restrictions and
asset freezes already in place after opposition presidential
candidates were sentenced to prison, Obama said during a trip to
 Poland .  The Eurasian Economic Community agreed to provide the
former Soviet republic with a $3 billion, 10-year bailout on
June 4 and Lukashenko is also seeking a second stabilization
loan from the IMF, which in 2009 provided Belarus a $3.44
billion emergency loan.  ‘Eager to Destabilize’  Lukashenko in an April 21 speech said there were “efforts
to spur panic buying in the foreign exchange and consumer
markets, with the assistance of domestic and foreign analysts.”  “It’s obvious that someone is eager to destabilize the
country and sow chaos and distrust of the government, and after
that the problems that ensue could strangle our country and our
independence,” Lukashenko said.  Belarus’s gold and foreign-currency reserves fell to $3.59
billion in May, the lowest since August 2009, the central bank
said yesterday. Policy makers raised the main  interest rates 
twice last month to stem outflows and buoy the ruble.  The benchmark refinancing rate rose 2 percentage points to
16 percent as of June 1, the world’s highest.  “Although part of Belarus’s balance of payments gap is
likely to be bridged by loans from multilateral sources and
planned privatization, external liquidity will remain tight over
the next year,” Moody’s said in a statement yesterday.  Foreign-currency shortages and rising interest rates may
curb economic growth in the second half of 2011 and in 2012, the
credit evaluator said.  Unpopular Measures  Measures needed to improve productivity and international
competitiveness, including limits on income growth and subsidy
cuts, would “undoubtedly be unpopular and could jeopardize the
seeming stability that has characterized Belarus’s authoritarian
political environment for almost two decades,” Moody’s said.  The country may need as much as 18 months to resolve its
monetary crisis, Russian Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak
told reporters in Moscow yesterday.  Russia ’s financial
assistance is conditional on Belarus taking steps to increase
capital inflows, including $7.5 billion in state asset sales.  “This country is so hopeless that people are leaving it,”
said Andrey, a 24-year-old construction worker, who declined to
give his last name as he watched the demonstration. “Somebody
has to finally do something.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  