-- 
Berlusconi to Test Rules Backing Minorities in TV Bid

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-06-08T16:49:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/berlusconi-to-test-rules-backing-minority-investors-in-tv-bid.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , who owns  Italy ’s biggest free-to-air TV network,
wants to control the country’s broadcast towers. To do so, he
must win over minority investors in a first test of the nation’s
new takeover rules.  Berlusconi’s  Mediaset SpA (MS)  has until June 30 to conclude
exclusive talks to combine its tower operations with  Digital
Multimedia Technologies SpA (DMT)  in return for a controlling stake in
the company, known as DMT. Minority investors then will decide
whether Mediaset should be exempt from buying them out too.  Italy’s stock-market regulator Consob introduced the new
takeover rules in May, giving smaller investors more power and
aligning the country with nations such as the U.K. Control of
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , Italy’s biggest phone company, has changed
hands three times since 1999 without the buyer making a takeover
offer to all shareholders.  “The new regulations mean that minority investors will
decide, based on the business plan and whether the new owner can
convince them it can create value,” said Arturo Albano, a
Milan-based independent adviser to professional investors on
matters including corporate governance. “Minority investors now
can’t be bypassed.”  DMT shares fell as much as 6.7 percent, the most since May
2010, before closing up 0.8 percent to 21.30 euros in Milan.
Mediaset was little changed at 3.52 euros.  “There are some concerns about the deal linked to
antitrust issues, which are weighing on the shares as the
deadline for the talks gets closer,” said Emanuele Vizzini, who
manages more than 500 million euros ($733 million) as chief
investment officer of Investitori SGR in Milan.  Decision-Makers  Under the new rules, minority shareholders must decide
whether to grant an exemption to a requirement for a full
takeover bid after an investor reaches a 30 percent stake.
Previously, Rome-based Consob decided on the exemption issue and
all shareholders would then vote on its ruling.  The regulations “bring other decision-makers to the table
and there will be deals that will become more complicated,”
said Roberto Bonsignore, a regulations lawyer at  Cleary Gottlieb
Steen & Hamilton LLP  in Milan. “Whether it brings benefits to
the company isn’t clear.”  Mediaset is proposing to merge its broadcast towers into
DMT, valuing the new entity at about 420 million euros. Mediaset
would own at least 60 percent of the business, controlling more
than a third of Italy’s TV broadcasting-tower business.  Three investors, Lazard Asset Management, Permian
Investment Partners and Octavian Advisors LP, which own a
combined DMT stake of about 21 percent, may hold the key to the
transaction. Officials for Lazard and Permian declined to
comment. DMT’s biggest investor is Alessandro Falciai, a former
Mediaset executive who is willing to give up control.  ‘Greater Voice’  A DMT spokesman said a shareholder meeting to decide
whether to grant the buyout exemption has tentatively been
scheduled for October.  “The Mediaset transaction is attractive and we are always
in favor of rules that give shareholders a greater voice,”
Richard Hurowitz, chief executive officer of New York-based
Octavian, which owns 6 percent of DMT, said in an interview. He
declined to say how Octavian would vote on the exemption.  Mediaset has about 1,700 towers, structures designed to
accommodate multiple tenants using technologies including
broadcast television and wireless services, reaching 96 percent
of Italian territory, according to its annual report.  DMT hosts signals for TV, radio and mobile phone operators
on its  1,500 towers . Mediaset was DMT’s biggest client last
year, accounting for about 13 percent of its sales as TV made up
almost half of total revenue. Mobile phone companies including
Telecom Italia, Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA and Vodafone Group
Plc generated 32 percent of DMT’s revenue in the same period.  Monopoly Concern  “The deal makes sense because transmission towers are a
scarce resource and will be increasingly so,” said  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  London . “Antennas
are strategic for data traffic and this could turn out to be a
good investment.” Controlling DMT might allow Mediaset to
“substantially” raise the cost of entry for any potential
competitors in the digital terrestrial business, he said.  Mediaset rivals including  Telecom Italia Media SpA (TME) , the TV
unit of Telecom Italia, have expressed concern about the impact
of the deal on the broadcasting market. Giovanni Stella, CEO of
Telecom Italia Media, a DMT client, said on a conference call
with analysts in May that access to the infrastructure and
pricing should be closely monitored by the industry regulator.  UniCredit SpA analyst Giovanni D’Amico said approval by the
competition regulator is “among key risks” for concluding a
transaction. D’Amico said the combined company could control
about 40 percent of broadcasting towers in Italy.  Berlusconi, who is standing trial in Milan on allegations
he paid for sex with a minor, effectively controls Italian
state-owned broadcaster RAI SpA as well in his position as head
of the government. RAI and Mediaset dominate the country’s free-
to-air TV market, controlling about 90 percent of viewers.  That’s cause for concern, said Elio Lannutti, head of the
Adusbef consumer group and a senator with the Italian Values
party.  “This deal would increase Berlusconi’s reach over the
Italian TV industry, with the risk of a monopoly,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  