-- 
Bernanke Says Accommodative Policy Needed for ‘Uneven’ Economic Recovery

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-06-07T22:39:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/bernanke-says-accommodative-policy-needed-for-uneven-economic-recovery.html
Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said record monetary stimulus is still needed to boost
a “frustratingly slow” recovery and repeated that a rise in
inflation is likely to prove temporary.  “The economy is still producing at levels well below its
potential; consequently, accommodative monetary policies are
still needed,” Bernanke said today in a speech to a conference
in Atlanta. At the same time, the Fed “will take whatever
actions are necessary to keep inflation well controlled,” he
said.  Recent data showing weakness in the economy, including a
rise in the  unemployment rate  to 9.1 percent in May, have
increased the odds the Fed will hold the benchmark interest rate
near zero into next year. Bernanke said growth is likely to pick
up in the second half of the year as fuel prices recede and
disruptions of parts supplies dissipate as factories in  Japan 
recover from an earthquake and tsunami.  “Overall, the economic recovery appears to be continuing
at a moderate pace, albeit at a rate that is both uneven across
sectors and frustratingly slow from the perspective of millions
of unemployed and underemployed workers.”  Treasury two-year note yields dropped two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 0.4 percent at 4 p.m. in New York, the
lowest level this year. The dollar fell against most of its
major counterparts, with the yen reaching the strongest level
against the greenback in a month. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell 0.1 percent to 1,284.94 after rallying as much as 0.8
percent.  ‘On Course’  “He’s saying monetary policy is on course and right on,
and there’s no need to change at this point,” said Sung Won Sohn, an economics professor at California State University-
 Channel Islands  and former chief economist at  Wells Fargo & Co .
“The implication is not only will there be no change, but a
third round of quantitative easing is not likely to come.”  Bernanke said in April that the Fed would keep its balance
sheet at a record level after ending a program to buy $600
billion in Treasuries, a policy known as quantitative easing, on
schedule this month.  While a recent increase in inflation is a “concern,”
Bernanke said today he doesn’t see “much evidence that
inflation is becoming broad-based or ingrained in our economy.”  Still, “the longer-run health of the economy requires that
the Federal Reserve be vigilant in preserving its hard-won
credibility for maintaining  price stability ,” he said.  Inflation Measure  The personal consumption expenditures price index, minus
food and energy, rose 1 percent for the 12 months ending April.
That’s below the longer-run inflation goal of 1.7 percent to 2
percent for the PCE index forecast by policy makers in April.  The breakeven rate for five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, the yield difference between the
inflation-linked debt and comparable maturity Treasuries, has
fallen to 2.05 percentage points from 2.47 percentage points on
April 29.  Breakeven rates are a measure of the outlook for consumer
prices over the life of the securities. The measure has climbed
from 1.24 points on Aug. 27, the day Bernanke signaled the Fed
might embark on a second round of large-scale asset purchases
during a speech in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming ,.  If commodity prices stabilize, “the upward impetus to
overall price inflation will wane and the recent increase in
inflation will prove transitory,” Bernanke, 57, said in today’s
speech. Inflation is being restrained by “the stability of
longer-term inflation expectations” and “weak demand for
labor,” he said.  ‘Loss of Momentum’  Bernanke said recent data on the labor market show a “loss
of momentum.” He cited last week’s payrolls report, which
showed that companies added 83,000 workers, down from 268,000
the month before.  Households are facing “significant headwinds,” he said,
such as higher prices for food and energy, declining home values
and still-high unemployment.  Oil prices  have climbed 160 percent since February 2009,
while non-fuel commodity prices gained about 80 percent,
Bernanke said. The increase in commodity prices reflects
“strong gains in global demand that have not been met with
commensurate increases in supply,” Bernanke said.  The chairman rejected criticism that the Fed’s actions have
pushed down the foreign exchange value of the dollar, and
thereby boosted the price of commodities, saying “many factors
other than monetary policy affect the value of the dollar.”  Commodities as tracked by the 24-member Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Spot Index have rallied about 9 percent this year, led by
gasoil and  Brent crude .  Helping Dollar  Bernanke said the central bank’s efforts to keep inflation
low and stable are helping the dollar.  “There is a very strong case that what the Fed needs to do
to provide good fundamentals for the dollar in the medium term
is to first keep inflation low and stable, and secondly to help
the economy recover and be strong,” he said in response to
questions after the speech.  Waning fiscal stimulus will also exert drag on growth,
Bernanke said. He warned against sharp cutbacks at a time when
the recovery is still fragile, while urging lawmakers to develop
a long-term plan for deficit reduction.  Long-Term Plan  The chairman also said the Fed needs to do “more thinking”
about how new rules requiring banks to hold more liquidity will
affect the broader financial system, and that the central bank
wants to create new regulations that won’t “unnecessarily
constrict credit.”  Policy makers have few options left to respond to
accumulating signs of a slowdown after their second round of
asset purchases sparked the harshest political backlash against
the central bank in three decades.  “We’ve gotten inconsistency, hesitancy and unevenness” in
U.S. economic growth, Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said
today in a speech in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “I’m troubled
by what you might describe as a lack of conviction in this
economy.”  Two regional Fed bank presidents critical of the so-called
quantitative easing program --  Richard Fisher  of  Dallas  and
 Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia -- reiterated their opposition
to additional stimulus in comments yesterday.  The central bank has “done enough if not too much” to
spur growth, Fisher said in  New York , while Plosser said in
Helsinki that an exit from stimulus should start “long before”
a recovery in the U.S. job market is assured.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  