-- 
Biggs Avoids Financials, Says Cisco, Intel Are ‘Too Cheap’

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-06-07T20:33:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/biggs-avoiding-financials-says-cisco-intel-are-way-too-cheap-.html
Barton Biggs , the hedge-fund manager
who bought stocks when the market bottomed in March 2009, said
tech companies such as  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  are
attractively priced and that he’s avoiding financial shares.  With older technology companies, “you can almost buy them
as big-capitalization value. They’re way too cheap,” said
Biggs, who runs New York-based Traxis Partners LP, in an
interview today on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness” with
Margaret Brennan.  A gauge of technology companies in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index trades at 14.7 times reported earnings, compared with
14.6 the broader measure. That’s close to the lowest valuation
for the technology gauge compared with the  S&P 500  since
December 2009. Cisco’s P/E ratio is 11.7, while Intel’s is 10.1.  Biggs said he’s not worried about a downturn for technology
companies because forecasts for capital spending by U.S.
companies are still strong. Biggs said last month he is bullish
on U.S. equities even though the global economy has slowed. The
S&P 500 has declined 5.8 percent from an almost-three-year high
on April 29 as economic data missed forecasts and investors
prepared for the  Federal Reserve  to complete its $600 billion
bond-purchase program at the end of June.  Apple, Qualcomm  Biggs finds technology stocks such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  “incredibly attractive.” He’s not buying
companies such as LinkedIn Corp., the largest professional-
networking site, which completed its initial public offering
last month and more than doubled on its first day of trading.  “The LinkedIns are beyond my powers of comprehension,” he
said. LinkedIn’s P/E ratio is 1,111.7, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In order for financial-stock earnings to improve, the U.S.
housing market needs to strengthen, according to Biggs. Home
prices in 20 U.S. cities dropped in March to the lowest level
since 2003, figures from the S&P/Case-Shiller index showed on
May 31. The number of Americans signing contracts to buy
previously owned home sales plunged 12 percent in April, the
second-biggest drop in records going back a decade.  “I don’t feel confident I can really count on what the
financials say their book value is,” Biggs said. “We know how
ephemeral book values have been and we know how ephemeral
earnings have been.” He said that if he saw a real improvement
in prices of existing single-family homes, “then we’d be
looking at ‘writes-up’ in terms of the financials’ earnings
statement. With  home prices  still falling, I’m concerned we’re
going to be looking at writedowns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  