-- 
Biogen Seeking Deals to Expand Pipeline of MS Treatments

-- B y   S a s h a   D a m o u n i
-- 
2011-06-07T20:22:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/biogen-seeks-deals-to-build-up-ms-drugs.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , the world’s largest
maker of multiple sclerosis medicines, is on the hunt for new
compounds to treat MS and other neurodegenerative diseases, and
may purchase companies outright or partner with them, the
company’s research chief said.  Biogen is “very actively” reviewing licensing and
acquisition possibilities with companies that have drugs in the
first two stages of testing needed for regulatory approval, Doug Williams, executive vice president of the Weston, Massachusetts-
based biotechnology company, said today in an interview.
Treatments for immunology and hematology are areas of interest,
he said.  Williams formerly was chief executive officer of
ZymoGenetics Inc., acquired last year by New York-based Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. for $725 million. While he declined to comment
on specific targets, Elan Corp., based in Dublin, and  Acorda
Therapeutics Inc. (ACOR) , of Hawthorne, N.Y., were listed by  Michael Yee , an RBC Capital Markets analyst based in  San Francisco .  “We see a lot of things, and people know that we have
access to capital to put to use for these types of
transactions,” Williams said. “We are recognized as being the
leader in the space and have the wherewithal to get transactions
done.”  Shares Rise  Biogen gained 14 cents to $93.30 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The stock has increased
96 percent in the past 12 months. Acorda rose 15 cents to
$31.03. Elan’s American depositary receipts gained 56 cents, or
6 percent, to $9.93 on the New York Stock Exchange. Each receipt
represents one ordinary company share.  As of March 31, Biogen had $791 million cash and near-term
cash, according to the company.  Acquiring either Elan, with a market cap of $5.5 billion,
or Acorda, at $1.2 billion, would make “smart financial sense
because these products are low-hanging fruit that add revenue
and meaningful profitability, EPS accretion, and generate
attractive” return on investment for shareholders, Yee wrote in
a May 13 note.  Niamh Lyons, a spokeswoman for Elan, declined to comment on
mergers and acquisitions possibilities. Jeff Macdonald, a
spokesman for Acorda, also declined to comment.  Current Partnerships  Biogen is partnered with Elan on the MS drug Tysabri, which
generated $900 million in 2010, and Acorda for outside-the-U.S.
marketing efforts of Fampyra, which had $133 million in U.S.
sales.  MS affects about 2.1 million people in the world, with
about 400,000 patients in the U.S., according to the  National
Multiple Sclerosis Society . The chronic disease attacks the
central nervous system and can cause numbness in limbs,
paralysis and vision loss. The most-common form of MS is
relapsing-remitting, characterized by flare-ups followed by
periods of recovery.  Biogen increased 39 percent this year before today, with
first-quarter results that showed a 15 percent increase over a
year earlier in sales of its Tysabri. On April 21, its MS pill
candidate, called BG-12, reduced disability progression and
relapse rates more than expected in a study, spurring a 15
percent stock jump.  BG-12 may generate $2.5 billion to $3 billion in annual
worldwide sales if approved, more than a previous estimate of as
much as $1 billion, Ziad Bakri, a Cowen & Co. analyst, said in
an interview in April.  New Data  The company plans to offer “a much deeper dive” into BG-
12 data at a medical meeting in  Europe  in late October, Williams
said.  Williams is the second top Biogen executive to signal that
the company was actively seeking acquisitions or partnerships.
After the BG-12 data were released in April, Chief Financial
Officer Paul Clancy said the company was seeking to expand its
development pipeline.  “We have a very, very robust late-stage pipeline with BG-
12 kind of being the early read-out as it relates to the seven
projects that we have in late-stage,” Clancy said then. “There
is nevertheless a need to build the early stage pipeline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 