-- 
Bolivia’s Envoy Touts Financial Tax to Fund $100 Billion in Climate Aid

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-06-07T10:57:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/bolivia-s-envoy-touts-financial-tax-to-fund-100-billion-in-climate-aid.html
Bolivia  is pushing for a tax on
international financial transactions to help fund $100 billion
of climate change aid that developed countries have pledged to
provide by 2020.  Under the plan, countries could opt to charge a 0.01
percent tax on any money coming in from abroad for any
transaction, Bolivia’s lead climate negotiator,  Pablo Solon ,
said today in Bonn, where two weeks of United Nations climate
talks started yesterday. The money would then be paid into a
fund that can disburse aid to any country, Solon said.  The tax is needed to ensure aid pledges are met with new
money, said Solon, noting an earlier promise by developed
countries to pay $30 billion in climate change aid over the
three years 2010 through 2012.  “The famous $30 billion didn’t come to  developing
countries , not as new aid,” Solon said. A new tax would mean
"we will begin to see new fresh money," he said.  Financial transaction taxes are sometimes termed a  Tobin
tax  after  James Tobin , the Nobel Prize-winning U.S. economist
who first suggested the idea in 1971.  Solon’s proposal picks up on one by a UN-appointed panel in
November. The group, which included billionaire investor  George Soros  and  Larry Summers , then-director of President Barack
Obama’s National Economic Council, said an international
financial transactions tax could generate $27 billion a year.  Solon said countries would be able to opt into the system,
and that they couldn’t be forced to take part. At the same time,
any money flowing from a non-participating country to one that
has set up the tax would be subject to the charge.  “In this way we would have a mechanism that has real funds
to immediately act in situations like, for example, forest
fires, natural disasters,” he said.  Solon also said his country will continue to oppose
discussion in the UN talks of the use of “fictitious” carbon
markets to help protect forests.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in Bonn at  amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ; 