-- 
BP Said to Consider Sale of TNK-BP Stakeholding to Rosneft

-- B y   T o r r e y   C l a r k   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-07T15:30:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/bp-weighed-sale-of-tnk-bp-stake-to-rosneft.html
BP Plc (BP/)  is considering selling its
stake in a joint oil venture in  Russia  to OAO Rosneft after its
billionaire partners blocked a $7.8 billion share swap and
Arctic exploration deal with the state-run company, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  By reducing its stake even by one share, BP may end TNK-
BP’s right to pursue new opportunities in Russia on behalf of
the U.K. explorer, the people said, declining to be identified
because of the sensitivity of the matter. BP has “no current”
intention to sell any of its shares in TNK-BP, said David Nicholas, a company spokesman.  BP may be using the threat of a stake sale as a negotiating
tactic to revive talks, said analysts including Alexei Kokin at
UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow. The failure of last month’s
deal marked a setback for Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley ’s efforts to recover from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
TNK-BP, Russia’s third-biggest oil producer, accounts for about
one quarter of BP’s output and a fifth of reserves.  “It’s BP putting pressure on AAR by threatening to bring
in Rosneft,” Kokin said, referring to the investor group that
represents the billionaire partners.  Formal Notice  BP advised its partners, during negotiations before the May
16 deadline on the proposed Rosneft share swap, that it may seek
to sell shares in TNK-BP, the people said. Formal notice wasn’t
given. BP officials told AAR yesterday that it’s still
considering a sale of TNK-BP shares, one person said.  Rosneft hasn’t discussed buying shares in TNK-BP from BP,
said Rustam Kazharov, a spokesman for the company. AAR declined
to comment.  The billionaire partners would balk at the prospect of
Rosneft, the country’s largest oil producer, becoming a
shareholder in TNK-BP, said Artem Konchin, an analyst at
UniCredit SpA in Moscow.  “Rosneft is a partner they would rather not have in the
current TNK-BP venture -- a major competitor with powerful
lobbying resources and very opinionated, someone who AAR would
have no ability to influence,” Konchin said.  Rosneft had the biggest gain in more than a week in Moscow,
advancing 2.5 percent to 243.54 rubles. TNK-BP added 0.9 percent
to 86.26 rubles.  New Deal  The previous deal between BP and Rosneft to swap shares and
explore the Kara Sea can’t be resurrected, the people said. Any
alliance would have to take on a new form, they said. The
Financial Times reported earlier that BP may sell its stake to a
special purpose vehicle controlled by Rosneft.  Before BP and Rosneft’s swap and Arctic deal collapsed, the
two companies had agreed to buy out AAR’s half of TNK-BP for $32
billion in cash and BP stock, according to people familiar with
the negotiations at the time.  Talks failed after Russian Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin , a Rosneft board member, insisted that AAR lift the
injunction against the BP-Rosneft deal before a binding
agreement on the buyout.  BP and AAR haven’t held talks about a buyout since the deal
collapsed, one of the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 