-- 
Brazil’s Inflation Eases in May as Prices Rose at Slowest Pace in 8 Months

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-06-07T14:11:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/brazil-s-may-consumer-prices-rose-at-slowest-monthly-pace-since-september.html
Brazilian consumer prices rose at
their slowest pace since September last month, as a stronger
currency cut costs for imported consumer products and fuel
prices slumped.  Prices rose 0.47 percent in May, matching the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 39 economists and less than
the 0.77 percent increase in April. While inflation last month
slowed, annual price increases of 6.55 percent continued above
the central bank’s target range and reached the fastest pace
since July 2005, the government’s statistics agency said in a
 report  distributed in  Rio de Janeiro  today.  “We are not so optimistic,” said Flavio Serrano, senior
economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  Sao Paulo . “The
breakdown was not as good as the headline rate. We believe we
are likely to see a strong deceleration in June, but we do not
see a strong change in terms of core inflation.”  Brazil’s government is trying to prevent  Latin America ’s
biggest economy from overheating by reducing spending,
increasing borrowing costs and implementing tighter liquidity
requirements for banks to curb consumer lending growth. Record
low unemployment is fueling consumer demand, while food and
sugar-based ethanol prices surged in the beginning of the year
after global commodity prices climbed and heavy rains disrupted
 Brazil ’s harvest.  The yield on interest rate futures contracts maturing in
more than two years sank, with those due January 2014 dropping 4
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 12.43 percent at 9:50
a.m. New York time. Contracts due January 2013 fell 1 basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 12.5 percent. The real rose
0.4 percent to 1.5773 per  U.S. dollar .  Seasonal Factors  The May inflation number was influenced by seasonal
factors, said Pedro Tuesta, a Washington-based economist for
Latin America at 4Cast Inc.  “This is basically transport prices coming down after the
ethanol supply came back to normal with the sugar cane
production,” he said. “Home appliances are still flat, showing
the impact of the real’s appreciation.”  Transportation prices, which rose 1.57 percent in April,
slipped 0.24 percent last month, pushed down by a 0.35 percent
decline in fuel prices, the report said. So-called  core
inflation , which strips out volatile fuel and food prices,
remains at a level that means the central bank will need to
continue to raise rates, Serrano said in a telephone interview.  Benchmark Rate  Policy makers increased the benchmark rate by a quarter-
point to 12 percent in April, after raising it half a percentage
point in each of their previous two meetings. Traders are
betting the central bank will raise borrowing costs a further
0.25 percentage point at their meeting tomorrow, according to
Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures.  Inflation in imported goods was held down by a 3.27 percent
appreciation in the real against the dollar during April and
May. Household goods, which include home appliances, rose 0.09
percent in May, while communications equipment rose 0.15
percent.  The heated economy is attracting foreign investment,
helping push the real up 24 percent against the dollar in the
past two years, the biggest advance among emerging-market
currencies, according to Bloomberg data.  Brazil´s economic expansion gained speed in the first
quarter, challenging President  Dilma Rousseff ’s efforts to cool
growth and bring inflation to the 4.5 percent target by next
year.  Gross domestic product expanded 1.3 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three-month period and 4.2 percent
from a year earlier, the national statistics agency said June 3.
Growth in the fourth quarter of 2010 from the previous three
months was revised to 0.8 percent from 0.7 percent.  Signs of Slowing  Unemployment fell in April to the lowest level on record
for the month.  Brazil’s economy has shown some signs of slowing since it
grew by 7.5 percent last year. Industrial production slumped 2.1
percent in April from March, the biggest contraction since 2008,
and  consumer confidence  fell in May to its lowest level in more
than a year. Average real wages fell 1.8 percent in April from
March.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said growth will slow in the
second quarter, when measures taken to slow the economy will
have their biggest impact. The economy is growing at a more
“moderate” pace than it was last year, Mantega said June 3.  Economists surveyed by the central bank held their forecast
for 2011 economic growth at 4 percent on June 6, and cut their
2012 growth forecast to 4.1 percent from 4.2 percent a week
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  