-- 
Rousseff Loses ‘Point Man’ For Brazil Investors as Scandal Claims Top Aide

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-06-08T14:46:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/brazil-cabinet-staff-palocci-quits-as-allegations-create-political-fight-.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
suffered the loss of one of her closest advisers when Cabinet
chief  Antonio Palocci  resigned after battling the opposition for
weeks against corruption charges that weakened the five-month-
old government.  Palocci, 50, stepped down yesterday saying “baseless”
accusations that he improperly enriched himself by providing
consulting services to companies while serving as Rousseff’s
campaign chief last year were hampering his performance in the
Cabinet. He will be replaced by Senator Gleisi Hoffmann of the
ruling Workers’ Party at 3 p.m. New York time.  Palocci had been a key aide on economic policy, working to
ensure allies in Congress approved Rousseff’s plan to increase
the minimum wage less than trade union supporters wanted, one of
her signature victories after taking office Jan. 1. There is no
other adviser on economic policy of equivalent stature in the
Cabinet, said Alexandre Barros, the head of Early Warning, a
Brasilia-based political risk company.  “He was the government’s main point-man,” said Andre Cesar, founder of Brasilia-based political risk firm CAC
Consultoria. “He was the guy who talked with everybody: banks,
business leaders, trade unions, the opposition and government
members.”  ‘Right Track’  Hoffmann, 45, is a senator from the southern city of
Curitiba and the wife of Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo .
She believes that the government’s economic policy is “on the
right track,” according to a statement on her website
yesterday, adding that measures to curb credit growth, known as
macroprudential measures, are “important instruments to fight
inflation,” and that it isn’t necessary to rely solely on
higher  interest rates .  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
October, the most traded in Sao Paulo, rose 1 basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 12.3 percent at 10:40 a.m. New York
time. The yield on the contract due in January 2015 fell 3 basis
point to 12.39 percent.  The real was little changed at 1.5801 per dollar.  Reserve Requirements  In December, the central bank raised banks’ reserve
requirements to slow credit growth, and in April Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  doubled to 3 percent the so-called IOF
tax on  consumer credit .  “Controlling and fighting inflation is our priority, but
we’re not going to do this by giving up economic development,
job generation and improvements in the quality of life of
Brazilians,” Hoffmann wrote on her website last week.  Consumer prices rose 6.55 percent in May, the fastest pace
since 2005 and above the government’s 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent
target range.  Palocci was the first minister to resign since Rousseff,
63, succeeded President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva . His decision
came one day after Chief Federal Prosecutor Roberto Gurgel
shelved an investigation against him, citing a lack of evidence.  Rousseff regrets the loss of Palocci, according to a
statement from the Presidency yesterday. His departure may
trigger other cabinet changes, as Rousseff attempts to regain
her political initiative, Cesar said.  Cabinet Changes  The president may replace her Institutional Affairs
Minister Luiz Sergio Oliveira as she redistributes he role of
her aides, Cesar said. The Institutional Affairs office would
have a bigger role in negotiations with Congress with the
dismiss of Palocci, he said.  Newspaper Folha de  Sao Paulo  reported last month that
Palocci earned 20 million reais ($12 million) in fees while
working on Rousseff’s election campaign last year. In 2006, when
Palocci was elected to Congress, he reported assets of 375,000
reais.  “The continuation of the political fight could hurt his
work in the government,” Palocci’s press office said in an e-
mailed statement announcing his decision. A decision by
prosecutors yesterday to drop accusations against him “confirms
the legality and rectitude of his professional activities,” the
statement said.  Tax Authorities  In a June 3 interview on TV Globo, Palocci said “not a
single cent” of his earnings last year was related to work on
Rousseff’s campaign. All of his income had been reported to tax
authorities and his consulting work ended when he was named
Cabinet chief, he said. Palocci said he couldn’t name the 20 to
25 banks, investment funds and other companies he provided
consulting services to because the contracts are confidential.  Palocci’s departure is political “noise” that is unlikely
to have a broader impact on policy, said  Jim O’Neill , chairman
of Goldman Sachs Asset Management in  London .  Palocci had resurrected his political career under Rousseff
after he resigned as Lula’s Finance Minister in 2006, before the
 Supreme Court  belatedly exonerated him of violating bank secrecy
laws. As Finance Minister, his insistence on fiscal austerity
during Lula’s first term helped net debt fall to 47 percent of
gross domestic product by 2006, from 60 percent at the end of
2002.  Political `Fragility'  Palocci’s departure shows the “political fragility” of
the government, and could make it more difficult for the
government to pass legislation such as  tax reform , said  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA.  “This is a political issue, not an economic one,”
Padovani said, speaking by telephone from Sao Paulo. “There’s
no political or economic incentive for changing tack on the
management of the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  