-- 
Brazil Hedge Funds Beat U.S. Competitors by Investing in Bonds

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-06-07T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/brazil-hedge-funds-beat-u-s-competitors-by-investing-in-bonds.html
They arrive every week, in ones and
twos and groups of 10, some of them coming straight from  Sao
Paulo ’s Guarulhos International Airport. These investors head
for the dark-wood halls of Credit Suisse Hedging-Griffo as
supplicants, asking to put their millions of dollars into one of
the world’s top-performing hedge funds.  The answer from the fund’s managers is often a polite but
firm no. Hedging-Griffo’s Verde fund has returned an annualized
average of 33 percent since 1997. One American offered to sign a
contract that wouldn’t allow him to ask for his cash back for
three years, says Luiz Paulo Parreiras, strategist for the firm.  “Pension funds, endowments, sovereign-equity money -- we’ve
turned all of them down,” he says. The money managers are
concerned that if Hedging-Griffo’s $8 billion hedge fund becomes
too large, its trades may move Brazilian markets, Parreiras
says, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its July issue.  Hedging-Griffo’s high returns during the past decade lead
the pack in  Latin America ’s largest country, and other Brazilian
hedge funds -- many of them still open to new investors --
aren’t far behind. Americans and Europeans are beginning to
notice.  The Eurekahedge Latin American Onshore Hedge Fund Index --
90 percent of which is composed of Brazilian firms -- had an
average yearly return of 20 percent from 2001 to 2010, the best
in all regions of the world, according to Eurekahedge Pte, which
has offices in  London , New York and  Singapore .  Mostly Bonds  The irony is that trading strategies by most Brazilian
hedge funds are similar to those of indexed mutual funds.
Brazilian managers put almost all of their money into bonds and
stocks. Brazilian regulators call hedge funds multimercado, or
multistrategy, firms to differentiate them from mutual funds.  Unlike the unregulated pools of capital in the U.S., hedge
funds in  Brazil  report their asset values daily to regulators.
They also have to disclose their holdings and typically must be
able to meet redemptions within days of when investors ask for
their money, inhibiting them from making many risky bets.  That means Brazilian hedge funds are relatively easy to
manage, says Simon Nocera, co-founder of San Francisco-based
hedge fund Lumen Advisors LLC and a former economist at the
 International Monetary Fund .  “All you have to do is buy the Bovespa stock index and
 government bonds ,” he says. “It’s not like you have to be
superactive or a great trader.”  Top Returns  Investors aren’t complaining. Brazilian funds have been
profitable because in the past 10 years, the nation’s government
bonds and stocks have beaten the returns of most indexes in the
world. Fiscal austerity, record exports and rising incomes have
fueled the boom.  A two-year Brazilian government bond has posted an average
yearly return of 17 percent since 2001. Brazil’s Bovespa stock
index rose by 16 percent a year in that period compared with a 1
percent gain for the entire period by the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Globally, hedge funds gained 11 percent annually in that
period, according to Eurekahedge.  Brazil’s economy grew 7.5 percent in 2010, its fastest pace
in two decades. The heated growth is creating a new class of
wealthy investors. From 2006 to 2009, 38,000 Brazilians became
millionaires in U.S. dollars -- that’s 26 every day -- according
to  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s World Wealth Report.  In October, Highbridge Capital Management LLC, the New
York-based hedge fund controlled by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , spent
an undisclosed amount to buy what it says is a controlling stake
in the $6 billion fund management firm Gavea Investimentos Ltda.
in  Rio de Janeiro .  New Funds  Brazilian analysts, traders and former investment bankers
have opened 31 new hedge funds during the past year, according
to data from Sao Paulo-based research firm Economatica. The
country has 462 hedge funds.  As the economy expanded, the excess of cash spurred
accelerating inflation, along with a 39 percent increase in the
value of the real against the dollar, in the two years ended on
April 29.  Brazilian bonds rallied as the nation received its first-
ever investment-grade rating in 2009. Brazil’s central bank haS
raised overnight bank lending rates three times this year, to 12
percent, in an effort to cool off the boom.  The skyrocketing currency and faster inflation raise
questions about whether returns will continue at the same pace,
says  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management in
London.  ‘Brazil Kit’  “It’ll be hard to match the past decade,” he says.  The common Brazilian hedge-fund strategy, dubbed the
“Brazil kit” by fund managers and traders because it’s so
simple, holds about 66 percent in bonds and most of the rest in
stocks, along with some bets on currency or Brazilian  interest
rates , regulatory filings show.  Investors pay Latin American hedge funds the same fees that
are common in the U.S. and  Europe . They charge an average of
1.88 percent of assets and 20 percent of profits, according to
Eurekahedge.  Wealthy Brazilians demand that managers consistently beat
returns on government bonds, says Marcelo Mesquita, co-founder
of Leblon Equities Gestao de Recursos Ltda., a hedge-fund and
private-equity firm in Rio. Many fund managers are so concerned
they’ll trail bond profits that they miss the best equity
bargains, he says.  “They shouldn’t be getting paid the 2 and 20 if they aren’t
taking risks,” Mesquita says. “You pay someone to judge the
risks to get a higher return.”  Few Choices  Strategists have few choices in Brazilian stocks. The
Bovespa stock exchange lists 467 companies compared with 5,700
traded in the U.S. Ten stocks make up 50 percent of the market
value of the Bovespa index.  That limits fund managers’ choices, says  Tony Volpon , Latin
America strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York .  “They’re trapped in a little box,” Volpon says. “So it’s
difficult to differentiate themselves because everyone does the
same thing.”  That’s not a concern for many investors. Cesar Stange,
partner at Gaia Capital, a wealth management firm in Buenos
Aires, says he’s put client money in Brazilian hedge funds for
seven years.  “The spectrum of strategies is smaller, but there are some
very clever managers,” he says. “You put smart people together
with a strong market and the results are great.”  Offshore Funds  Some Brazilian managers have opted to take more risks by
incorporating their hedge funds offshore. That allows them to
get around government regulations. Sao Paulo-based Tarpon
Investimentos puts its money mostly in stocks of companies with
strong growth potential, says Jose Carlos Magalhaes, who founded
the firm at age 24 in 2002.  Investors in its offshore fund agree to allow Tarpon to
hold their money for two years. The fund has beaten most hedge
funds in Brazil in the past nine years. Tarpon HG Fund-A posted
a five-year annualized return of 30 percent from 2005 to 2010,
topping the February Bloomberg Markets ranking for Brazilian
offshore hedge funds larger than $1 billion.  Magalhaes, known as Zeca, dresses casually in the office,
as does Hedging-Griffo’s Parreiras and most fund managers in Sao
Paulo. The usual attire is a blue button-down shirt, with its
sleeves rolled up, and Diesel jeans or dark slacks. In Rio, some
strategists work in beach garb, says Claudio Andrade, co-founder
of hedge fund Polo Gestao de Recursos Ltda.  ‘Be Comfortable’  “We work hard here,” he says, wearing brown moccasins and
no socks. “A lot of times they spend more time here than at
home, so I want everyone to be comfortable.”  Regardless of where Brazilian hedge funds are registered,
not one collapsed during the global subprime financial crash
that began in late 2007, says Maria Helena Santana, president of
regulatory agency Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios in Rio.  That crisis -- caused largely by the $2.5 trillion that
banks, insurance companies and hedge funds held in securitized
subprime debt -- took down 2,494 funds globally in 2008 and
2009, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Unlike the U.S., Brazil requires managers to report to
independent risk assessment companies, in some cases every week.
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  is the one most often used.  “It makes all the difference if you have more
transparency,” says Luis D’Amato, head of institutional products
at Hedging-Griffo. “In the U.S., whenever you got the info, it
was too late.”  European Funds  Some U.S. and European hedge funds are following Brazil’s
lead. The European Commission is using regulations similar to
Brazil’s for a new class of hedge funds known as UCITS. The
rules for UCITS require managers to report investment holdings
and restrict the use of loans to buy securities.  These funds must allow clients to withdraw assets in as
little as one day. UCITS (Undertakings for Collective Investment
in Transferable Securities) tripled in assets to $90.5 billion
last year, according to Hedge Fund Intelligence.  John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co., based in New York, and David
Harding’s Winton Capital Management Ltd. in London are among the
hedge funds that started UCITS last year. The funds are
registered in Europe.  Brazilian regulation forces managers to be more aware of
risks, Hedging-Griffo’s Parreiras says. Luis Stuhlberger started
the Verde hedge fund in 1997. Four years later, strategist
Parreiras began working with Stuhlberger as a 21-year-old intern
after he graduated from the University of Sao Paulo as an
engineer.  Young Managers  In 2007, Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  bought a
majority stake in Hedging-Griffo for 421 million Swiss francs
($364 million).  “They try to hire young people,” Parreiras says. A slim man
who wears wire-rimmed glasses, Parreiras talks casually in the
office. “I’m really like the new generation within Credit Suisse
Hedging-Griffo,” he says.  In the 1990s, the proprietary trading desks at Brazil’s
largest investment banks, such as Banco Garantia SA and Banco
Pactual SA, trained the country’s top traders.  Hedging-Griffo, Brazil’s largest hedge fund, differs from
others because of its long track record, Parreiras says. The
Verde fund is one of the oldest in Brazil. It has weathered
several crises, including the 1998 financial contagion that
started with Thailand’s currency devaluation and  Argentina ’s
bond default in 2001.  “Running risk within that environment proves that people
have to work for the money they are making,” Parreiras says.
“You can’t just buy a ‘Brazil kit’ and go home.”  Large Enough  With $8 billion under management, the hedge fund can’t get
any bigger without moving bond markets, Parreiras says.  “If we were bigger, it would hinder our ability to move in
and out of markets,” he says.  Newer, smaller funds have had similar success. Zeca’s
Tarpon is one of them. At age 17, Zeca, whose cousin was a stock
trader, began putting his savings into equities, he says.  “I started with $1,000, and then $5,000, then $20,000 and
then $50,000,” he says. As he made money, he convinced his
family and friends to let him manage their cash, he says.  In the throes of a financial distress in Brazil in 2002,
triggered by Argentina’s default on $95 billion of foreign debt,
Zeca says he decided to take a risk. He knocked on the door of
his boss, Ricardo Semler, chairman of Semco SA, a maker of
mechanical parts, and asked for money to start a hedge fund.  ‘Natural Birth’  Zeca says he wanted to start a fund because stock prices
were too inexpensive to pass up.  “This was a natural birth,” Zeca says. Semler invested
about $2.2 million in Tarpon, Zeca says. That turned out to be a
profitable decision. Semler’s money has grown 17-fold from the
fund’s inception to mid-May. Tarpon is accepting new investors
only in offshore funds.  One of Zeca’s first investments was in Sadia SA, a
Brazilian poultry processor. The Concordia-based slaughterhouse
was moving into the frozen-food market, offering products such
as fusilli pasta with sausage, ready-made burgers and turkey-
breast pies.  Zeca had five Tarpon analysts studying how this transition
would bolster  cash flow , says Eduardo Mufarej, chief executive
officer of Tarpon.  Keeping analysis narrowly focused is one of Zeca’s
philosophies. Almost everyone, including himself, is exceptional
at no more than 5 percent of the things he or she does, Zeca
says. They’re below average at the rest, he says.  Big Stake  “I don’t believe in great ideas,” he says. “We are not
Thomas Edison inventing light bulbs.”  By July 2004, Tarpon had funneled 85 million reais ($52
million) into Sadia, which represented 35 percent of the hedge
fund’s assets. Brazil doesn’t restrict the amount that a fund
can put in one company. The young money managers, all under 30,
began to get to know the Fontana family, Sadia’s controlling
shareholders, Mufarej says.  By February 2005, Tarpon had decided Sadia made bad
decisions when it started exporting and spending too much money
to increase production capability, he says. So it sold its
shares in the company, making five times as much as it had paid
to buy them, Mufarej says.  Three years later, as stocks plummeted, Tarpon began
seeking bargains to spend its cash on. It took another look at
Sadia. The company had made wrong-way currency hedges leading to
760 million reais in losses. The stock fell by more than 70
percent in two months after the company announced those trading
results on Sept. 25, 2008.  World’s Largest  Sadia accepted a takeover offer in May 2009 from competitor
Perdigao SA. Zeca immediately asked his staff to drop everything
and analyze projections of the merged companies, he says. Two
months later, Tarpon was among the largest investors in a share
sale valued at $2.8 billion as part of the takeover.  The new company became Brasil Foods SA. By December 2010,
it was the world’s largest poultry exporter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. As of March 31, Tarpon owned Brasil Foods
stock valued at $1.1 billion, its biggest investment,
representing about 32 percent of the firm’s assets.  As Tarpon makes big bets on one company, the Polo fund in
Rio takes a different approach. It seeks to exploit stocks with
values that swing because of fast-moving situations such as
potential acquisitions, policy decisions or crises.  Andrade, co-founder of the $1.3 billion fund, named it in
2002 after the Portuguese word for pole -- as in North or South
Pole -- in order to remind himself to look at the other side of
the obvious, he says.  Third Highest  The Polo Fund-Series 1 posted an annualized return of 21
percent during the past five years, the third highest in the
2011 Bloomberg Markets hedge-fund rankings.  “We don’t need to do the Brazil kit; there’s other people
that do that much better than us,” Andrade says.  A newer, successful Rio-based fund is Leblon Equities,
which started in the same month as the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., in September 2008. San Francisco-based
 Farallon Capital Management LLC,  which manages $20 billion and
was founded by Tom Steyer, watched the Brazilian fund and wasn’t
deterred by declines in stock markets around the world.  It bought a 12 percent stake in Leblon four months after
the firm opened. The stock-only shop managed $350 million as of
May 11, up from $10 million when it began, says Leblon co-
founder Mesquita, who was formerly head of Brazil equities at
UBS AG.  “Equities are where the growth is in Brazil, and if you
have a good project, the money is there,” Mesquita says.  Whether money managers followed the traditional strategy of
buying mostly government bonds or put their assets into stocks,
Brazilian hedge funds have done little wrong in the past decade.
As investors around the world hunger to buy in, inflation and
soaring currency values are likely to force Latin American
strategists to expand the tool collection in their Brazil kit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Neumann at 
 jneumann2@bloomberg.net  