-- 
Brazil Probe of Rousseff Official Shelved on Lack of Evidence

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-06-07T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/brazil-probe-of-rousseff-official-shelved-on-lack-of-evidence.html
A probe into $12 million earned last
year by Brazilian Cabinet Chief  Antonio Palocci  for consulting
work while he managed President Dilma Roussef’s election
campaign was shelved on lack of evidence, the nation’s chief
prosecutor said.  Opposition lawmakers asked Prosecutor Roberto Gurgel to
investigate Rousseff’s top aide after Folha de S. Paulo
newspaper reported he made 20 million reais ($12 million) last
year providing advice to companies -- half of it after Rousseff
was elected and Palocci was managing her transition team. In
2006, when Palocci was elected to Congress, he reported assets
worth 375,000 reais.  The prosecutor’s office, in a ruling sent by e-mail
yesterday, said any inconsistency in Palocci’s wealth and
declared income is not in itself a crime though could constitute
an administrative “impropriety.”  Yields on Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts rose on
concern Palocci, a former finance minister, may leave the
government, weakening Rousseff’s plan to curb inflation. The
yield on the contract due in January 2012 rose three basis
points to 12.37 percent yesterday.  “He’s a very important piece in the economic team, so if
he leaves, it would be a big loss for the government,” Mauricio Junqueira, who helps manage $300 million at Squanto
Investimentos, said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo 
yesterday.  Strengthened Position  Yesterday’s ruling strengthens Palocci’s position in the
government and may prompt lawmakers to end a campaign to start a
separate congressional probe, said a government official who
could not be named because the official is not authorized to
speak publicly on the matter. A separate civil probe by
prosecutors in the federal district of Brasilia is still going
forward.  Palocci, in an e-mailed statement sent after the ruling was
issued, said he felt vindicated by the federal prosecutor’s
decision.  “I hope this decision restores reason, balance and justice
to what is a clash of politics,” Palocci said.  Palocci has been under scrutiny for a surge in his personal
wealth after the Folha de S. Paulo report on May 15 that he paid
6.6 million reais for a Sao Paulo apartment last year. On May
20, Folha reported he earned 20 million reais from his
consulting business.  ‘Not a Cent’  In a June 3 interview on TV Globo, he said “not a single
cent” of his earnings last year was related to work on
Rousseff’s campaign. All of his income had been reported to tax
authorities and his consulting work ended when he was named
cabinet chief, he said. Palocci said he cannot name the 20 to 25
banks, investment funds and other companies he provided
consulting services to because the contracts are confidential.  Palocci, who served as President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s finance minister from 2003 to 2006, has battled
accusations of corruption.  He resigned as finance minister in March 2006 after
lawmakers accused him of illegally obtaining and leaking the
private banking records of a witness in a bribery investigation
that targeted senior officials of Lula’s Workers’ Party.  The witness, a caretaker, placed Palocci at a Brasilia
residence where politicians and lobbyists allegedly negotiated
bribes and partied with prostitutes.  Palocci denied any wrongdoing. The  Supreme Court  cleared
him of breaking bank secrecy laws in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  