-- 
Britain’s Climate Law ‘Most Complicated in the World,’ RWE Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-06-07T12:03:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/britain-s-climate-law-most-complicated-in-the-world-rwe-says.html
The U.K. needs to reduce red tape for
energy utilities and their customers because the current
regulatory environment for carbon reduction is probably the
hardest to navigate in the world, said  RWE AG (RWE) ’s British unit.  There are seven pieces of legislation that strive to help
the nation achieve its greenhouse gas-reduction targets,
including the “carbon floor price” announced this year, RWE
Npower said today in a document handed to reporters in  London .  “Our regulation around carbon is probably the most complex
in  Europe , if not the world,” John McElroy, director for policy
at RWE Npower, said today at a seminar in the U.K. capital.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government said in April it
would tackle laws and regulation that were not working as part
of a so-called Red Tape Challenge. The Department of Energy and
Climate Change is seeking to balance the needs of industry for
consistent, multiyear regulation with the need to get rid of
rules that aren’t working properly, said Tanya Sheridan, head of
the retail market team at the department.  “There are certain areas where we do really have to think
about stability,” she told the seminar delegates.  A plan by the government to refine the way it incentivizes
power production at peak times may amount to “changing
something that’s working,” said David Cockshott, director of
industrial and commercial markets at Npower. The carbon floor
price amounts to a subsidy for nuclear power that will provide
“windfall benefits,” he said.  “You have quite a few levers that are trying to do the
same thing,” said Nicola Walker, climate-change adviser for the
 Confederation of British Industry , the London-based business
lobby group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  