-- 
Britain, France Accelerate Push at UN for Pressure on Assad Amid Violence

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-06-08T12:19:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/britain-france-accelerate-push-at-un-for-pressure-on-assad.html
Britain and  France  responded to
escalating violence in  Syria  by putting forward a motion in the
United Nations  Security Council  to condemn the government’s
crackdown on protesters.  “We must not stand silent in the face of these outrages
and we won’t,” U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  told the House
of Commons in London. “We need to go further.” Cameron said
that “if anyone votes against that resolution or tries to veto
it, that should be on their conscience.”  Attacks on protesters calling for President Bashar al- Assad’s ouster have escalated since the U.S. and the European
Union announced sanctions against the Syrian leadership in the
middle of last month. Security forces have killed more than
1,100 people and detained more than 10,000 since protests began
in mid-March, human-rights groups say.  The timing of the vote “is a question of days, maybe
hours,” French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  told reporters
after meetings at the UN in New York yesterday. “The repression
is getting worse. Massacres are on the rise. It is inconceivable
that the UN remains silent on such a matter.”  ‘Losing Legitimacy’  The Security Council scheduled a meeting at 3 p.m. today at
Britain’s request. Assad is “losing legitimacy and should
reform or step aside,” Cameron’s foreign secretary,  William Hague , told lawmakers in the House of Commons yesterday.  Syria’s government said this week that 120 of its security
personnel were killed in an ambush by “terror groups” in the
northern town of Jisr al-Shughour, a flashpoint for recent
unrest, and that it will take action against those responsible.
 Agence France-Presse  cited opposition members, whom it didn’t
name, as saying there was a mutiny among security services in
the town, and forces loyal to Assad executed police officers who
refused to open fire on protesters.  More than 300 Syrians have fled to  Turkey  in recent days to
seek refuge from the violence in Jisr al-Shughour, the office of
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said today.
Turkey’s state news agency, Anatolia, reported that many more
are waiting to make the trip if unrest escalates.  Britain and France led talks in New York over the past two
weeks on a UN resolution that would demand that the Syrian
government end its attacks on peaceful protesters.  ‘Systematic Violation’  The text “condemns the systematic violation of human
rights, including the killings, arbitrary detentions,
disappearances and torture of peaceful demonstrators, human
rights defenders and journalists by the Syrian authorities.”  The draft doesn’t contain, or threaten, UN sanctions.  Juppe said the talks in  New York  have produced a majority
in support of the measure. He said the final stages of
negotiations will focus on creating “as large a majority as
possible” to isolate Russia and  China , which have signaled that
they might veto the draft.  Syria’s government says Islamists and foreign provocateurs
are behind the uprising. Local reporters operate under
restrictions and members of the foreign media attempting to
report from Syria have been jailed or deported.  Syria also faces referral to the Security Council over a
site destroyed in a 2007 Israeli raid that the U.S. says was a
clandestine nuclear plant designed to build weapons.  European nations joined the U.S. today at the  International
Atomic Energy Agency  in seeking to report Syrian non-compliance
with nuclear-safeguard agreements, according to a two-page
restricted copy of the resolution obtained by Bloomberg News.
The IAEA’s 35-member board of governors is meeting in Vienna and
may vote on the proposal tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  