-- 
Broadgate Planning Restrictions May Add to Lack of New Offices in London

-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-06-07T10:38:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/broadgate-planning-restrictions-may-add-to-lack-of-new-offices-in-london.html
Plans by the owners of  Broadgate
Square , the City of  London ’s largest office complex, to knock
down two buildings to create a new U.K. headquarters for  UBS AG (UBSN) 
may be derailed by historical preservation efforts, worsening a
shortage of new space in the capital’s main financial district.  English Heritage, a state-funded conservation group,
recommended on June 3 that Broadgate should be given the second-
highest level of protection from demolition. The government will
decide whether to accept the advice within five weeks, a
spokeswoman for the Department for Culture, Media and Sport said
yesterday. British Land Co. and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  each own 50
percent of Broadgate.  Giving the complex a Grade 2 listing would “raise the
question of where to locate 7,000 permanent banking jobs and put
at risk more than 5,000 construction jobs,” British Land said
in response to  English Heritage ’s recommendation. UBS declined
to comment.  The proposal to redevelop part of Broadgate, at a cost of
850 million pounds ($1.4 billion), for  Switzerland ’s biggest
bank was approved by city planners in April. A new building at 5
Broadgate would have about 700,000 square feet (65,000 square
meters) of space, making it British Land’s biggest project.  Revived Projects  U.K. developers have revived office projects in central
London in the past year, after putting them on hold as demand
and funding evaporated in 2008, to take advantage of rising
rents. Even so, the amount of new  office space  completed in the
City of London next year may be the lowest on record,  Drivers
Jonas Deloitte  said May 3.  British Land , the U.K.’s second-largest real estate
investment trust, may make a development profit of as much as 90
million pounds from the project, according to Harm Meijer, an
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London. The property company
declined to comment on the estimate.  “The development is a very important part of the company’s
portfolio,” said John Cahill, an analyst at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in London with a “neutral” rating on the
stock.  Broadgate was built next to Liverpool Street Station in the
mid-1980s and includes office buildings, stores, restaurants and
an ice-skating rink. About 30,000 people work in the complex’s
4.4 million square feet (408,773 square meters) of space for
companies including UBS, the largest tenant, and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, according to the REIT’s website.  ‘Particularly Important’  A  listed building  cannot be demolished, extended or altered
without government planning guidance, according to English
Heritage’s website. Grade 2 properties, defined by the
organization as “particularly important buildings of more than
special interest,” make up 5.5 percent of all listed
structures.  British Land gets annual rental income of 86 million pounds
from Broadgate, according to the company’s last annual results.
That’s about 16 percent of the total.  Broadgate Square is “one of the most important and
successful developments of its period and type, possessing
special architectural and historic interest,” English Heritage
said last week.  “As a message to the international business community,
it’s not a very positive one,”  City of London  spokesman James
Abbott said by telephone. “On the one hand we’re saying Britain
is open for business and at the same time we’re saying that we
can’t meet your business needs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Barwell in London on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 