-- 
Buyout Firms Beaten in Takeover Auctions by Cash-Rich Companies

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-06-07T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/buyout-firms-losing-to-cash-rich-corporate-competitors-in-acquisition-hunt.html
TPG Capital, the leveraged-buyout
firm started by  David Bonderman , twice came close to buying
companies at auction in the same week. Both times, it lost to a
corporation offering to pay more.  The firm bid about 490 million pounds ($806 million) for
London-based shoe designer  Jimmy Choo  Ltd., according to two
people with knowledge of the matter. Labelux Group GmbH, the
owner of Bally footwear, won the auction on May 22 by paying
about 12 percent more and offering a stake to Tamara Mellon,
Jimmy Choo’s co-founder, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks were private. Three days earlier,
Tokyo-based  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  acquired Landis+Gyr AG, a Swiss
electronic-metering company TPG was also vying to buy, for $2.3
billion, two people with knowledge of the transaction said.  After rebuilding cash reserves, companies are resuming
acquisitions and competing against private-equity firms for the
same assets. Worldwide, companies with market values of at least
$2 billion had cash and near-cash items of $8.6 trillion in the
latest reported year, 21 percent more than the previous year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pressure from so-called
trade buyers is making it harder for LBO firms to invest and
reap returns on the $400 billion of funds they have to spend.  “Corporations are now competing more aggressively with
buyout firms,” said Matthew Grinnell, head of a team at
 Barclays Capital  that advises LBO firms. “A lot of the cash on
corporate balance sheets is finding its way into acquisitions.”  ‘Not Even Worth Competing’  Shareholders aren’t pushing companies to return cash
because they would rather see it invested for growth, said Larry Slaughter, head of corporate coverage at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
London. That’s helped fuel the $1 trillion of acquisitions
announced by companies worldwide this year, a 22 percent
increase on the same period a year earlier, Bloomberg data show.  “We’re beginning to see situations in which corporates are
very determined to buy,” said Christian Rochat, a partner at
leveraged-buyout firm Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC. “In some
cases, they are so far ahead of the competition that it’s not
even worth competing.”  The New York-based firm was beaten by  Japan ’s  Itochu Corp. (8001) 
in March in the auction for Kwik-Fit Group Ltd., the British
auto-repair chain sold by Paris-based buyout firm PAI Partners.  LBO firms are struggling to beat prices paid by trade
buyers partly because the amount of bank debt they can raise to
fund takeovers is limited, said Celine Mechain, a  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  banker advising buyout firms in Paris. Typically, LBO
firms use loans secured on the targets they acquire to finance
more than half of the purchase price, and cash from their own
funds for the rest.  Unwilling to Lend  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., a U.S. instruments-maker,
acquired Swedish laboratories operator Phadia AB in March for
2.5 billion euros ($3.7 billion), about 16 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Buyout firms
would only be able to raise about 6 to 7 times Ebitda in debt,
Mechain said.  “Even for great assets like Phadia, there’s still a limit
beyond which banks aren’t willing to lend,” Mechain said. New
York-based Goldman Sachs advised Phadia on the sale.  Private-equity firms worldwide reduced the so-called dry
powder, or money they have left to spend before their funds
expire, to $400 billion in May from a record of almost $500
billion in 2009, according to London research firm Preqin Ltd.
It’s still more than the amount that was available in 2006, when
buyout firms announced $538 billion of transactions, about five
times the value of deals announced in last 12 months, Bloomberg
data show.  ‘Win Their Hearts’  “Strategic bidders are well aware of the private-equity
firms’ firepower, and they’ve learned to adapt by making
unexpected, pre-emptive bids to avoid auctions and by offering
competitive incentive packages to the managers of the companies
they target to win their hearts,” said Mechain.  General Electric Co. (GE)  purchased French electrical-equipment
maker Converteam in March for $3.2 billion after failing to buy
it in a previous auction in 2008. This time, it didn’t wait for
the company to be formally put up for sale by its owners,
Barclays Private Equity Ltd. and LBO  France , and made an
unexpected bid, people with knowledge of the matter said.  GE also allowed Converteam’s managers, who had acquired a
stake through incentive packages offered by its private-equity
owners, to keep a holding in the company.  Likewise, Labelux wooed Jimmy Choo’s managers by offering
them a share in the shoe designer. Spokesmen for  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based TPG, Labelux, General Electric and Barclays Private
Equity declined to comment. A spokeswoman for LBO France wasn’t
available for comment.  ‘Competition Remains Fierce’  “Corporates coming back coincides with a big overhang of
unspent capital that buyout firms need to invest,” said  Richard
Parsons , a director at Deloitte LLP in charge of advising buyout
firms on deals in  London . “Competition remains fierce for the
best assets with this leading to high multiples being paid.”  While increased competition from companies is making it
harder for buyout firms to find bargains, it’s providing a boon
for those trying to sell investments. Trade buyers purchased the
four largest private-equity-owned companies sold this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They have acquired
$84.5 billion of assets from buyout firms in  North America  and
 Europe , treble the amount in the same period last year,
according to  Preqin .  That appetite from trade buyers is reducing the number of
“pass-the-parcel” deals, when a company is sold by one
private-equity fund to another. Investors in private-equity
funds have criticized the deals because it sometimes means they
end up owning the same assets through a different fund while
paying fees to the selling firm. They also question the value a
second or third private-equity owner can add to a company.  Secondary Sales  In Europe, these secondary buyouts account for 15 percent
of all asset sales by private-equity firms this year, down from
49 percent in the same period in 2010, according to Preqin. In
North America, the figure fell to 15 percent from 26 percent.  “If a buyout firm can combine the best price with selling
the asset to a strategic trade buyer, limited partners are
likely to look upon them more favorably,” said Mark Pacitti, a
partner at Deloitte corporate finance in London.  In all, sales to trade buyers make up 62 percent of total
exits in Europe and 53 percent in North America this year,
according to Preqin.  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., a Tokyo-based drugmaker, agreed
on May 19 to buy  Switzerland ’s Nycomed, which makes medication
for smokers’ cough, for 6.3 billion euros from a group including
Nordic Capital Svenska AB and Credit Suisse Group AG’s LBO unit
in the largest sale by private-equity equity firms this year.  Blackstone Group  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest private-equity
firm, was outbid last month by a group led by Fila Korea Ltd.,
the owner of the Fila sport apparel brand, for Fortune Brands
Inc.’s golf unit.  General Mills Inc. (GIS) , the maker of Cheerios
cereal, beat Lion Capital LLC and Axa Private Equity to buy a
stake in Yoplait SA being sold by PAI Partners.  “With more synergies and a lower cost of capital,
strategic buyers will often be able to win a bid over a private-
equity company if they really want the asset,” said James Agnew, chairman of U.K. corporate broking at Deutsche Bank AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 