-- 
California District Map May Cut Out Sanchez Sisters

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-06-07T16:04:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/california-congressional-map-may-cut-out-the-sanchez-sisters-1-.html
(Corrects delegation makeup in second paragraph.)  Redrawing the lines of congressional
districts in California could end the terms of legislative
sisters Linda Sanchez and Loretta Sanchez, and still leave the
nation’s most-populous state with 35 Democrats in the  House of
Representatives , two more than it has now.  Paul Mitchell, a Democratic consultant in  Sacramento  who
has studied  draft maps  on the website of the  California Citizens
Redistricting Commission , said 10 of the state’s 53 House
members won’t be back in  Washington  after the November 2012
election. California’s congressional delegation is now 33
Democrats and 19 Republicans with one vacant seat that had been
held by a Democrat.  “There’s definitely some losers,” Mitchell said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “We’re not doing a district that
inherits the old lines. We’re starting from scratch.”  The commission, which will release preliminary results on
June 10, is an independent body approved by voters in 2008 to
redraw districts with equal numbers of people that reflect
population shifts, not taking account of current designs.
Previously the state Legislature drew the lines, which are
adjusted every 10 years.  “These are only staff drafts and will be redone after
receiving input from the commission, but they do show the
 starting point ,” Mitchell said.  Redistricting could spell trouble for the Sanchez sisters,
two Democrats representing Southern  California , Mitchell said.  Merged Districts  Loretta Sanchez’s district in Orange County could be merged
into that of Republican Dana Rohrabacher. Linda Sanchez may see
her district southwest of Los Angeles blended with that of Laura Richardson, a black Democrat whose current constituents would be
a majority in the new district.  Loretta, 51, and Linda, 42, are the first sisters to ever
serve together in Congress. They co-wrote a 2008 book, “Dream
in Color: How the Sanchez Sisters Are Making History in
Congress.”  Loretta is more business-oriented, a member of the Blue Dog
Coalition of Democrats who emphasize fiscal restraint. She is a
senior member of the Armed Services and Homeland Security
committees.  Linda, a former union official, has closer ties to
organized labor. She is the top-ranking Democrat on the Ethics
Committee, a thankless role responsible for policing the
behavior of its members.  Latino Voters  Adrienne Watson, a spokeswoman for Loretta Sanchez, said in
an e-mail that she couldn’t comment. Adam Hudson, a spokesman
for Linda Sanchez, didn’t respond to an e-mail request for
comment after business hours.  David Dreier, a Republican first elected in 1980, could
find that his new district includes a majority of Latino voters,
Mitchell said. His present territory snakes for 83 miles (134
kilometers) along the San Gabriel Mountains east of  Los Angeles 
to include wealthy foothills communities and not those where the
incomes of most residents are lower.  Jo Maney, a spokeswoman for Dreier, didn’t respond to an e-
mail requesting comment after regular business hours.  Gary Miller , a Republican first  elected  in 1998 who serves
on the House Financial Services Committee, may also see his
district merged into more Democratic-leaning ones. Miller lives
in the Los Angeles suburb of Diamond Bar.  Tony Quinn, a Republican editor of the  California Target
Book , a nonpartisan political guide, agreed with Mitchell’s
analysis.  “Dreier and Miller are out of a district,” he said in a
telephone interview. “There’s no place for them to run.”  While California added people at a slightly faster pace
than the nation between 2000 and 2010, its 10 percent growth
rate was the lowest in state history and failed to qualify it
for a new congressional seat. Its population shifted, with
greater growth in the inland areas than along the coast.  The redistricting commission will hold public hearings over
the next two months and present final district maps by Aug. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  