-- 
Canada Natural Gas Falls as Higher Supplies Offset Weather Needs

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-06-07T21:01:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/canada-natural-gas-falls-as-higher-supplies-offset-weather-needs.html
Canadian natural gas fell from the
highest price in almost a year amid speculation supplies will be
adequate to meet summer power-plant needs and refill winter
storage.  Gas at the benchmark AECO ‘C’ hub in  Alberta  rose to C$4.06
per gigajoule ($4.37 per million British thermal units)
yesterday, the highest price since June 16, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Canadian prices usually track New York
futures, which rose to a 10-month high today for a second
consecutive day.  “They would need more bullish weather” or a supply
disruption to move beyond that peak, said  Martin King , senior
commodity analyst with FirstEnergy Capital Corp. in Calgary.  Alberta gas for July delivery fell 3.5 cents to C$4.06 per
gigajoule as of 4 p.m. New York time, according to  NGX,  a
Canadian Internet market. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped
to users in  Canada  and the U.S., and is priced on TransCanada
Corp.’s Alberta system.  Gas for July delivery on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
rose 0.4 cent to settle at $4.831 per million Btu.  The number of rigs drilling for gas in the U.S. rose by 7
last week to 887, the highest in four weeks, according to Baker
Hughes Inc. data. Increased drilling helped U.S. gas production
rise to a record in March, Energy Department data show.  Midwest Gains  Gas for prompt delivery in the U.S. Midwest rose amid
forecasts of hotter-than-normal weather. Chicago’s high will
touch 94 degrees Fahrenheit (34 Celsius) tomorrow, 15 degrees
hotter than normal, according to  State College , Pennsylvania-
based forecaster AccuWeather Inc.  Gas at the Alliance Pipeline delivery point near Chicago
rose 4.43 cents to $5.0277 per million Btu, the first close
above $5 since Feb. 2, on the  Intercontinental Exchange .
Alliance is an express line that can carry about 1.5 billion
cubic feet a day to the Midwest from western Canada.  At the Kingsgate point on the border of  Idaho  and British
Columbia, gas fell 5.23 cents to $4.513, according to ICE. At
Malin,  Oregon , where Canadian gas is traded for California
markets, gas was down 6.47 cents to $4.6245.  Volume on  TransCanada’s  Alberta system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.6 billion cubic
feet as of 3 p.m. in New York, 226 million below target.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.94 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the  Chicago  area, the
daily flow rate was 1.57 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 855 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.45 billion cubic feet today, about 63 percent of its
capacity of 2.3 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 3.06
billion cubic feet at 3:35 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 