-- 
Carlyle, TPG Said in Talks to Buy Reliance’s Tower Assets

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-08T04:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/carlyle-tpg-said-in-talks-to-buy-reliance-phone-tower-assets.html
TPG Capital and  Carlyle Group  are
among private equity companies in talks about purchasing a stake
in  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) ’s mobile-phone towers unit, said
three people with knowledge of the matter.  Reliance Communications, India’s second-largest mobile
phone operator, also has received interest from potential
investors including  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s biggest
private equity firm, and London-based Apax Partners LLP, said
one of the people, who declined to be identified because the
discussions are private.  Billionaire  Anil Ambani ’s flagship company has been trying
to sell the unit for about a year as it seeks to reduce debt.
The company said in June 2010 it was in “advanced talks” to
sell about 50,000 telephone towers.  “If Reliance Communications does sell its tower business,
then it will have a positive impact on the company’s
profitability,” said G.V. Giri, a Mumbai-based analyst with
IIFL Capital Ltd. who has a ‘reduce’ rating on the stock. “The
tower business will pass into a neutral ownership from an
operator-owned business and it will be capable of attracting
more tenancy.”  The shares jumped as much as 2 percent to 93.9 rupees in
Mumbai today, while the benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index, or Sensex, dropped 0.2 percent. The company is
the worst-performing stock in the index this year, with a 36
percent drop.  ‘Indicative Offers’  “Formal indicative offers from several interested
parties” for Reliance’s Infratel unit were received, the
Mumbai-based company said in a statement to the Bombay Stock
Exchange on May 31, without naming any bidders. The mobile-phone
operator’s board approved taking the sale process to the next
stage of due diligence, according to the release.  Gaurav Wahi, a spokesman for Reliance Communications in
Mumbai, didn’t immediately respond to a call seeking comment.
Blackstone said in an e-mailed response that it doesn’t comment
on industry speculation. Dorothy Lee, a spokeswoman for Carlyle
in  Hong Kong , and Ben Harding, a spokesman for Apax in  London ,
declined to comment. Tim Payne, an external spokesman for TPG,
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Majority Stake  Reliance Communications may sell a majority stake in the
unit, the people said. The company scrapped a deal in August to
sell the business to GTL Infrastructure Ltd.  Cash from the sale of assets may help replenish Reliance
Communications’ finances after the company said March 9 that it
will save 5 billion rupees ($112 million) by borrowing 87
billion rupees from a group of lenders led by China Development
Banking Corp. to refinance the purchase of third-generation
airwaves and buy equipment.  Reliance’s debt exceeded cash and equivalents by 320
billion rupees at the end of March compared with 199 billion
rupees a year earlier, according to the phone operator.  Private equity investments in  India  reached $3.36 billion
so far this year, compared with $3.77 billion for all of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 