-- 
McDonald’s Pledges Sustainable Filet-O-Fish in Europe

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-06-08T08:36:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/mcdonald-s-pledges-sustainably-sourced-filet-o-fish-in-europe.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s biggest
restaurant chain, plans to become the first company of its type
to sell fish in  Europe  that’s been certified as sustainable by
the Marine Stewardship Council.  McDonald’s will start selling MSC-certified white fish --
including in its Filet-O-Fish sandwiches -- at 7,000 restaurants
in 39 European countries from October, the  Oak Brook , Illinois-
based company said today. The  MSC  is an organization set up to
help promote and develop sustainable fishing practices.  The MSC certification is the “most robust and
recognizable” demonstration of sustainable sourcing, Keith
Kenny, senior director of supply chain for McDonald’s Europe,
said in an interview. “This is really going to raise
awareness” of the issue of sustainability for McDonald’s 13
million daily customers in the region, he said.  McDonald’s is among consumer-goods companies that are
emphasizing the importance of sustainably sourced ingredients as
the global population swells and consumes more food. Unilever,
the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods company, has pledged
to buy only sustainable  palm oil  by 2015. Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
is also committed to only selling MSC-certified wild seafood,
according to Rupert Howes, chief executive officer of the MSC.  McDonald’s, which sold about 100 million Filet-O-Fish
portions in Europe last year, said it won’t increase prices on
fish products as a result of the switch to MSC-approved goods.
The company will absorb any costs incurred as it regards the
move as beneficial for the McDonald’s brand. McDonald’s said in
April that it expected food expenses to rise as much as 4.5
percent in the U.S. and Europe this year.  Free-Range Eggs  “The main reason we take actions like this in our supply
chain is to ensure we have supply in the future,” Kenny said.
“It’s a serious issue.”  McDonald’s also uses only free-range and non-caged eggs in
95 percent of its restaurants across Europe, and sells only
coffee that has been certified as produced through sustainable
methods. Europe represented about 37 percent of operating income
last year, compared with the U.S.’s 46 percent.  “Our customers are increasingly interested in the food
they eat, where it comes from, and how it’s been sourced,”
Julian Hilton-Johnson, vice president of corporate relations and
McDonald’s Europe’s chief of staff, said by phone.  “We talk in McDonald’s about moving from ‘fast food’ to
‘good food, fast,’ and making sure we differentiate ourselves to
our customers,” Hilton-Johnson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 