-- 
Centum of Kenya to Start Investing in Geothermal Power Projects, CEO Says

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-06-07T12:42:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/centum-of-kenya-to-start-investing-in-geothermal-power-projects-ceo-says.html
Centum Investment Co. plans to invest
in geothermal projects in  Kenya ,  Africa ’s largest producer of
power from this source, Chief Executive Officer James Mworia
said.  East Africa’s biggest investment company will fund projects
undertaken by Kenya’s state-run Geothermal Development Co.,
known as GDC, in the fiscal year through March, he said in an
interview today in the capital, Nairobi. Centum will also invite
its partners to join it in the geothermal projects, Mworia said.  “In geothermal, the opportunity is huge and we have
significant geothermal resources,” Mworia said. “I don’t think
we have enough capital, all of us combined, to exploit this
particular resource we have”.  Kenya, East Africa’s biggest economy, plans to develop
10,000 megawatts from geothermal steam sources by 2030, shifting
the nation’s electricity load from weather-dependent hydropower
sources to renewable geothermal.  GDC invited tenders to develop eight 100-megawatt, steam-
powered electricity plants at the Bogoria-Silali block in
northwestern Kenya, it said on March 9. Development will begin
in July and the project is expected to be completed by 2017.  Centum’s profit more than doubled to 2.29 billion shillings
($26.3 million) in the year through March as investment income
increased, the company said in an e-mailed statement to the
stock exchange today. Investment income climbed to 2.26 billion
shillings 1.04 billion shillings.  The stock rallied 3.3 percent to 23.5 shillings by the 3
p.m. close in Nairobi, the highest since May 19.  Sales, Acquisitions  Centum, which has investments in real estate,
infrastructure and private equity, plans to sell its stake in
two private companies by the end of its financial year in March
2012, Mworia said, declining to name them.  “The objective is to get an optimum price for the assets
that we are looking to exit,” he said.  During the same period, Centum plans to make an investment
in at least one private company, he added. “Last year we
evaluated in excess of 150 private-equity opportunities,”
Mworia said.  Last month the company sold its 22 percent stake in
 Carbacid Investments Ltd. (CBIL) , earning 1.2 billion shillings in
dividends and disposal proceeds since acquiring it in May 2009.
The sale is meant to raise funds for other investment
opportunities, Mworia said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  