-- 
Cerberus’s Feinberg Says Buyout Managers Still ‘Overpaid’ as Funds Shrink

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-06-07T17:27:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/cerberus-s-feinberg-says-buyouts-are-still-lucrative-even-as-funds-shrink.html
Stephen Feinberg , chief executive
officer of Cerberus Capital Management LP, said the private-
equity industry remains lucrative even as the size of new funds
shrinks following the 2008 financial crisis.  “All of us are way overpaid in this business, it’s almost
embarrassing,” Feinberg said today at the Super Return
Conference in  Boston . “The incentive fees are quite substantial
if you do well. It’s almost ridiculous for people in our
position to say there’s not enough money to go around.”  Buyout firms have cut the target size of funds as new
commitments declined to the lowest level in almost eight years
in the first quarter. Investors such as pensions and endowments
remain reluctant to lock up capital for extended periods and
have demanded lower fees. Cerberus’s new fund, which the firm is
currently raising, will likely be smaller than the $7.5 billion
predecessor pool, after that fund made an unprofitable bet on
automaker Chrysler LLC in 2007.  Cerberus, based in  New York , recouped 90 percent of that
wager by selling Chrysler’s former lending unit, helping salvage
the fund. The firm now sees opportunities buying assets from
European banks, Feinberg said, adding he’s looking at Spain,
Italy and  Germany .  “Whenever you combine a recession with austerity, there
are opportunities” Feinberg said.  Private-equity firms raised $42.3 billion in the first
quarter, the lowest amount in almost eight years, researcher
Preqin Ltd. said in April  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  