-- 
China May Sign Deal to Import Russian Gas Before Hu’s Visit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-07T09:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/china-may-sign-gas-deal-with-russia-before-premier-hu-s-visit-this-month.html
China , the world’s biggest energy
consumer, may sign a deal to import Russian natural gas ahead of
President Hu Jintao’s visit to  Russia  later this month,
Assistant Foreign Minister Cheng Guoping said.  “Before Hu’s state visit, there will be a major agreement
on natural gas,” Cheng told reporters in Beijing today, adding
that Hu’s visit would take place June 15-18.  China, seeking to boost consumption of cleaner-burning gas
to cut  carbon emissions  and rely less on coal, has held talks
with Russia on gas shipments by pipeline for at least 14 years.
Russia, which became China’s largest trading partner in 2010,
aims to sign a 30-year gas supply contract on June 10, RIA
Novosti reported on May 31.  The talks “have been going smoothly,” Cheng said. “China
and Russia are talking about an unprecedented gas cooperation
contract in terms of duration and the quantity. The two sides
need each other.”  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, may ship 68
billion cubic meters a year of the fuel to China, RIA Novosti
said on May 31, citing Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin . That’s
more than 75 percent of the 88.7 billion cubic meters that China
used in 2009, BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy shows.  Russia plans to deliver the gas through two pipelines,
Energy Minister Viktor Khristenko said in 2007. The western link
will transport 30 billion cubic meters a year while the eastern
pipeline will export 38 billion cubic meters annually, he said.  Two Routes  “For China, both routes provide significant additional
volumes of gas at a juncture when the overall future impact of
its unconventional resources on future indigenous supply is
still unproven,” Gavin Thompson, director of China Gas Research
at Wood Mackenzie Ltd., said in an e-mailed note today. “Also,
both routes offer benefits for Russia, providing supply
diversification.”  China’s natural-gas imports more than doubled in the first
quarter because of higher domestic demand, the Beijing-based
National Development and Reform Commission, the country’s top
economic planner, said in April.  Gas may enter a “golden age” led by demand increases in
China and the  Middle East  as new gas-fired power stations are
built, the  International Energy Agency  said in November. China
currently uses coal as fuel at about 70 percent of its  power
plants .  Global gas demand may surge as much as 44 percent to 2035
from 2008 levels to 4.5 trillion cubic meters a year (435
billion cubic feet a day) as Chinese consumption grows an
average 6 percent a year annually, according to the adviser.  Energy Ties  Resource-rich Russia is expanding energy ties with China,
designing pipelines to deliver oil and gas to the world’s
biggest energy consumer.  In 2009, Russia agreed to supply China with oil for 20
years in return for $25 billion of loans to state oil company
OAO Rosneft and national oil pipeline monopoly OAO Transneft.
China is seeking to increase shipments to 30 million metric tons
a year from the agreed 15 million tons.  China has also asked Russia to build two additional 1,000-
megawatt nuclear reactors at the Tianwan complex near  Shanghai .
ZAO Atomstoyexport, Russia’s reactor builder, completed
construction of two units at the site in 2007.  --Michael Forsythe and  Wang Ying . Editors: Ryan Woo, John Chacko.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 