-- 
China Agrees to End Wind-Power Subsidies After WTO Case, Trade Office Says

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-06-07T19:55:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/china-agrees-to-end-wind-power-subsidies-after-wto-case-trade-office-says.html
China  agreed to end hundreds of
millions of dollars of subsidies to wind-power manufacturers
following a complaint the U.S. filed at the  World Trade
Organization , the U.S. Trade Representative’s Office said.  China’s Special Fund for Wind Power Manufacturing illegally
required aid recipients to use Chinese-made parts, the U.S. said
in a case filed in December at the WTO after getting a complaint
from the United Steelworkers union. Individual grants were for
as much as $22.5 million.  “Subsidies requiring the use of local content are
particularly harmful and are expressly prohibited under WTO
rules,” U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said today in a
statement. “We challenged these subsidies so that American
manufacturers can produce wind turbine components here in the
 United States  and sell them in China.”  The steelworkers’ complaint with the U.S. trade office,
filed last year, said export credits, preferences in bidding,
forced transfers of technology and discrimination against firms
outside the nation gave Chinese producers of renewable-energy
products an unfair advantage.  The union also said China’s restrictions on rare-earth
exports provide an unfair advantage to its green-energy
manufacturers, which rely on those elements.  “We need continued action on our other complaints in our
petition to ensure that China’s protectionist and predatory
practices in the clean-tech energy sector are eliminated,”  Leo
Gerard , president of the union, said in a statement.  ‘Ready To Settle’  The Chinese embassy in Washington was “not updated” on
the decision, spokesman  Wang Baodong  said. “It’s been my
government’s consistent position that China is ready to settle
trade disputes with its trading partners through bilateral
consultations and relevant multilateral channels,” he said in
an e-mail.  The U.S., which praised China for eliminating the
subsidies, also faulted the nation’s disclosures to the Geneva-
based trade arbiter.  “Under WTO rules, China is obligated to submit information
about all of its subsidy programs on a regular basis,” the U.S.
trade office said in its statement. “Despite this obligation,
China never notified the WTO of the wind power equipment
subsidies challenged in this WTO dispute” or dozens of similar
subsidies, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  