-- 
Clifford Chance, Freshfields Raise Lawyer Pay

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-07T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/clifford-chance-freshfields-raise-lawyer-pay-hand-out-bonuses.html
Top U.K. law firms  Clifford Chance 
LLP and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP are raising salaries
for London lawyers and will pay bonuses, just two years after
they cut attorney pay by as much as 11 percent.  The two firms, the first and third largest by revenue,
respectively, had reduced compensation as profits fell after a
drop in deal work as a result of the 2008 credit crisis.
Slaughter and May, another of Britain’s largest firms, is also
raising pay.  “The London office has been busy, our business has grown
and our associates deserve to be well-rewarded,” said David Bickerton, Clifford Chance’s managing partner in the city  Clifford Chance will pay lawyers with a year experience
68,500 pounds ($112,600) as of May 1, up from 68,000 pounds, and
a bonus of as much as 20,550 pounds, the firm said in a
statement. Salaries for those two years out of training will
rise to 75,000 pounds, with bonuses of as much as 22,500 pounds.
Top U.S. firms still offer higher salaries in  London , with
Bingham McCutchen LLP and others paying 100,000 pounds to start,
to match New York levels.  Lawyers with three years experience will get 85,500 pounds
and a bonus as high as 25,650 pounds, while those with four
years or more experience qualify for bonuses as high as 40
percent, the firm said. Their salary levels are confidential.  Linklaters LLP, the second-largest U.K. law firm, and Allen
& Overy LLP, the fourth-largest, aren’t raising salaries,
putting Freshfields in the lead for junior lawyer pay. Clifford
Chance, Freshfields, Linklaters, Allen & Overy and Slaughter and
May are the so-called Magic Circle firms, the highest-grossing
in the U.K.  June Bonuses  Freshfields is raising salaries for its newly qualified
lawyers to 61,500 pounds, 69,500 pounds for its attorneys with
one year of experience and rising to 88,000 pounds for those
with three years, the firm said.  A spokesman for Freshfields, Michael Burgess, declined to
specify the amount of bonuses the firm is paying, saying “the
average set aside per associate is similar to last year.” Those
payments will be made in June, he said.  After not increasing salary for associates for three years,
Freshfields’ London managing partner Tim Jones said, “we are
pleased to be able to reward our associates for their hard work
this year.”  The Magic Circle firms have advised on some of the largest
deals of the past year, and have benefitted from an increase in
regulatory and capital-markets work. Clifford Chance advised
banks including  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Citigroup Inc. and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , which served as joint global coordinators of Glencore
International Plc’s initial public offering in London and  Hong
Kong . The commodities trader was represented by Linklaters.  London 2012  Freshfields is handling the legal work for the London 2012
Olympic Games and its other clients include Deutsche Bank AG and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Slaughter and May, which doesn’t publish its earnings, also
“slightly increased” salaries from last year, the firm’s
executive partner,  Graham White , said in a phone interview. The
firm will pay lawyers with one year of experience 69,000 pounds,
those with two years 76,000 pounds, and 86,000 pounds to lawyers
with three years of experience.  The firm gives discretionary bonuses that are decided in
November, White said. Last year, it paid 8 percent bonuses to
all salaried lawyers, he said.  Pay for newly qualified lawyers at Linklaters will remain
61,500 pounds, and 68,000 pounds for those with one year of
experience, rising to 85,000 pounds for lawyers after three
years of experience. There are no limits on bonus awards,
Linklaters spokesman Rupert Winlaw said.  Allen & Overy  salaries are also staying the same, at 61,000
pounds for newly-qualified lawyers, 68,000 pounds for lawyers
with one year of experience, rising to 85,000 pounds for
attorneys with three years of experience. Firm spokesman Derek
Gilmour declined to comment on the amount of bonuses the firm
will pay.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 