-- 
Comcast to Roll Out Home-Security Business in Expansion Beyond Cable TV

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-07T21:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/comcast-to-roll-out-home-security-business-in-expansion-beyond-cable-tv.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S.
cable-television provider, is rolling out a home-security
business as it seeks sales growth beyond TV services.  The Philadelphia-based company is starting Xfinity Home
Security in seven markets for $39.95 a month. It lets users
remotely adjust lights and thermostats, watch cameras, and get
e-mail or text alerts when doors and windows are opened and
closed. Customers can watch live video of their homes on an
Xfinity  website  or with an Apple Inc. iPad application.  Comcast is expanding in new businesses after losing basic
cable-TV customers for at least four years amid competition from
phone companies, satellite-TV providers and Internet-video
sites. The move into security is a natural step because Comcast
already specializes in home installation, said Mitch Bowling,
the head of Comcast’s New Businesses unit.  “This is a broadband-based product, and we have one of the
largest broadband networks in the country,” Bowling said. “It
combines traditional security with our digital products that
we’re already putting the home.”  Customers often install cable, broadband and a security
system when they move into a home, Bowling said. Research
indicates consumers will enjoy the ease of adding home security
as one more item on their Comcast bill, he said.  The service lets customers set personalized “rules” that
dictate when alerts are sent or when actions are performed. A
user can decide to receive a text message when motion detectors
activate and can follow up by watching recorded video online
from security cameras to see what caused the disturbance.  Cable Slump  Comcast tested a version of the home-security service in
Houston last year. The expanded package will be available in
additional markets including Philadelphia, Jacksonville,
 Florida , and Nashville,  Tennessee . The company plans to expand
the service in other markets later on.  The security business is a relatively small step in
Comcast’s expansion beyond cable. In January, it completed the
purchase of a majority stake in  NBC Universal  to gain
programming revenue. Comcast today said NBC Universal will pay
$4.38 billion to retain the U.S. television rights for the
Olympics through 2020, outbidding Walt Disney Co. and  News Corp .  Comcast’s cable business lost 757,000 video customers last
year and 39,000 last quarter. The unit had $9.08 billion in
revenue last quarter, accounting for 75 percent of total sales.  Bowling, who started the New Businesses division in 2009,
wouldn’t give a specific profit or revenue estimate for home
security because “it’s still so new.”  Comcast rose 10 cents to $24.02 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained 9.3 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  