-- 
Commerzbank Most Recommended by Analysts

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-06-07T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/commerzbank-most-recommended-by-analysts-since-dresdner-takeover.html
Analysts are the most bullish on
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  since 2008 after the country’s second-biggest
lender raised 11 billion euros ($16.2 billion) as part of its
plan to repay government aid.  Commerzbank, the worst-performing stock in  Germany ’s DAX
Index this year, had 13 “buy” recommendations as of yesterday,
almost twice the number of “sells,” according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Of the 31 analyst ratings, 11 were neutral. The
consensus recommendation was at the highest since August 2008,
when Commerzbank agreed to buy unprofitable competitor  Dresdner
Bank  -- two weeks before the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Amid the purchase, the German lender received more than 18
billion euros from the country’s Soffin bank-rescue fund. Led by
Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing , Commerzbank is repaying
about 14.3 billion euros of the aid after raising money through
a share sale and by using excess capital. Soffin maintained a
stake of 25 percent plus one share in the lender.  “Having successfully completed its 11 billion-euro capital
increase and repaid most of the state capital, we expect
investors to refocus on Commerzbank’s fundamentals,” Philipp Haessler, an analyst at Equinet in Frankfurt, wrote in a note
June 6. “Driven by declining risk provisions and costs we
forecast positive earnings development in coming quarters.”  Haessler raised his recommendation to “buy” and has a
price estimate of 4.40 euros on the shares, compared with an
average forecast of 4.01 euros, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Commerzbank has declined 28 percent to 3.23 euros
this year, compared with a 2.7 percent gain in the  DAX Index. (DAX)   Raising Recommendations  AlphaValue, Silvia Quandt & Cie. AG and WestLB AG were also
among brokerages upgrading Commerzbank shares this month.  The stock is trading at about 3 times the company’s
reported earnings, compared with a ratio of 10.4 for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Banks Index. Commerzbank said last month that first-
quarter net income attributable to shareholders climbed 39
percent to a quarterly record of 985 million euros as it set
aside less money to cover risky loans.  Still, along with other European lenders, Commerzbank also
faces concern over its capital strength amid the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis. Data from the  Bank for International
Settlements  this month showed German banks were the biggest
foreign owners of Greek  government bonds  with $22.7 billion in
holdings last year.  Commerzbank owns 3 billion euros of Greek sovereign debt,
according to an April 20 research note by  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  The lender would be able to absorb any “stress” related
to its sovereign-debt holdings, such as a debt restructuring,
Commerzbank Chief Financial Officer Eric Strutz said May 6.  The bank’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial
strength, was 9.7 percent at the end of March when including a
one-off payment to Soffin, transaction costs for the capital
measures as well as first-quarter earnings, it said yesterday.  -- Editors: Christiane Lenzner, Stephen Taylor  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  