-- 
Covered Bond Market Swells to Record Before Law Change: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-06-08T05:10:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/covered-bond-market-swells-to-record-before-law-change-australia-credit.html
National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ’s  New
Zealand  unit sold its first covered bonds in  Australia , cutting
funding costs as the market for the asset-backed securities
grows to a record.  Bank of New Zealand’s funding arm priced A$700 million
($747 million) of five-year notes to yield 88 basis points more
than the swap rate, according to an e-mailed statement today.
The last domestic sale of five-year senior unsecured bonds by
one of Australia’s four biggest banks priced at a 113 basis-
point spread, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While offshore banks are allowed to sell covered notes in
Australia, domestic lenders are barred from offering the debt
under laws the government plans to change this year. BNZ’s sale
adds to A$2.3 billion of securities sold in Australia in 2011 by
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, DnB NOR Boligkreditt AS and
Bank of Nova Scotia, already the busiest year on record, showing
demand for top-rated bonds in a nation set to have the second-
lowest sovereign debt burden in the developed world by 2015.  “The covered  bond market  is likely to continue to develop
as banks seek to diversify their funding sources once the laws
are changed,” said Mark Mitchell, head of credit at Sydney-
based Kapstream Capital, which manages about A$3.9 billion. “As
the sales so far this year have demonstrated, there will likely
be buyers because the securities offer a pick up to other AAA
assets.”  Global Sales  Demand for the securities, first sold in Prussia in the
18th century, has seen worldwide sales surge 38 percent to 212.5
billion euros ($311 billion) this year, Bloomberg data show.  In Europe, the debt yields an average 160 basis points more
than  government bonds , according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s EMU Covered Bonds Index. That compares with a 191 basis-
point spread on financial notes, Merrill Lynch data show.  Toronto-based Canadian Imperial Bank raised A$700 million
by selling five-year, 6.25 percent notes on March 11 priced to
yield 74 basis points more than the swap rate, Bloomberg data
show. The spread on the notes, rated AAA by  Standard & Poor’s ,
has narrowed to 73 basis points,  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  prices show.  Covered bonds, which typically have the highest  credit
rating , are backed by assets that stay on the bank’s balance
sheet and can be sold in a default. Australian lenders are
banned from offering the securities at home under laws that
favor depositors over creditors.  Cheaper Funding  The government released draft legislation in March to lift
the ban and give local banks access to cheaper funding in a
nation with the highest  interest rates  in the developed world.  “There is a very large global buyer base for AAA-rated”
securities, said  Robert Mead , Sydney-based head of  portfolio
management  at Pacific Investment Management Co. “That means
there will be demand for Australian banks’ covered bonds from
around the world.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia increased borrowing costs
seven times between October 2009 and November in an effort to
prevent the nation’s biggest mining boom in a century from
quickening inflation. It left rates unchanged yesterday at 4.75
percent. The U.S. Federal Reserve has kept its main interest
rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Interest rates and demand for commodities helped spur a 29
percent advance in the nation’s currency in the past 12 months
against the  U.S. dollar . The so-called Aussie reached $1.1012 on
May 2, the highest since exchange controls were scrapped in
1983, and traded at $1.0666 at 2:53 p.m. in Sydney today.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices in Australia may rise an annual 2.95
percent in the next five years, based on the gap between yields
on government bonds and inflation-indexed notes.  Yields on Australia’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell 28 basis
points since Dec. 31 to 5.27 percent at 2:56 p.m. in Sydney
today. Similar-maturity Treasuries declined to 2.99 percent from
3.29 percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts Australia’s
sovereign debt burden will shrink to 21.8 percent of gross
domestic product in 2015 from 22.3 percent last year, taking it
to the smallest among developed nations after Estonia’s 5.2
percent.  Under government proposals, local banks wishing to sell
covered bonds in Australia will be allowed to use 8 percent of
assets as collateral.  The threshold means  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia (CBA) , National Australia Bank and ANZ Bank will be
able to sell a total of A$150 billion of the securities,
according to Westpac.  Diversify Funding  BNZ’s sale of covered bonds is the first in Australia by
one of New Zealand’s four largest banks, which are all units of
Australia’s biggest lenders, Bloomberg data show.  “Our strategy was to diversify our funding sources,” said
Mahes Hettige, head of balance sheet management at BNZ, in a
phone interview from Wellington yesterday. The sale received a
“great reception” from Australian investors during meetings
held last month, he said.  The Auckland-based lender sold 1 billion euros of covered
bonds in November, in the first issue of the debt in the
currency by a bank outside  Europe  in more than two years.  It sold NZ$425 million ($348 million) of top-rated bonds
backed by mortgage payments last June at a 38 percent discount
to what New Zealand banks would pay without cover, according to
Moody’s Investors Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  