-- 
Covidien Said to Work With JPMorgan to Seek Buyer of Pharmaceutical Unit

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-06-08T20:22:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/covidien-said-to-seek-buyer-for-pharmaceutical-unit-working-with-jpmorgan.html
Covidien Plc (COV) , a maker of surgical
products and drugs, is seeking to sell its pharmaceuticals
business in a transaction that may fetch $3 billion to $4
billion, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Covidien had been in talks with another health-care company
interested in acquiring the drug unit before those discussions
broke down recently, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private. Other potential buyers
are still looking at the business, the person said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is advising Covidien on its options
for the unit, the people said. The business had $1.99 billion in
sales in the 12-months ended September 2010. Drugs are the
company’s second-largest area of business behind its $6.72
billion medical-products line.  The unit “is ripe for divestment” since it’s not as
important to Covidien’s growth and cash flow, said David Turkaly, a Susquehanna Financial Group analyst in  New York , in a
note to investors. “A pharma divestiture would make the company
a pure-play med-tech device company -- among the best names to
own, in our opinion, as they might garner a premium valuation”
for the shares.  Covidien declined 14 cents to $54.17 at 4:01 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have increased
37 percent in the past 12 months.  Lower Margins  Selling the drug unit for $3 billion to $4 billion would be
a good deal for Covidien, said  Jeff Jonas , an analyst at Gabelli
& Co. in Rye, New York.  “The pharma business has struggled to grow sales and
carries much lower margins than the main medical device
business,” Jonas said today in an e-mail.  While a deal would boost profit margins and growth in the
long run, investors may initially be lukewarm about a sale
because it may cut into next year’s earnings, said Michael Matson, a New York-based analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc.,
in a telephone interview.  Bruce Farmer, a spokesman for Covidien, declined to
comment. The company has offices in Dublin, Ireland, and
Mansfield,  Massachusetts . A spokeswoman for JPMorgan didn’t
reply to a request for comment.  Covidien’s Strategy  Covidien’s proposed sale of the drug unit fits the strategy
outlined in March by outgoing Chief Executive Officer Richard Meelia, whose retirement is planned for July. Meelia said the
company would increasingly focus on medical devices after he
leaves.  The company has divested three business units since
December 2009, when it sold the U.S. radiopharmaceutical
business to Parthenon Capital LLC, a private equity firm based
in  Boston . In two 2010 deals, the company sold U.S. units to New
Mountain Capital LLC, based in New York.  The maker of hypodermic needles and hospital feeding-pumps
was spun off from  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  in 2007.  In the U.S. pharmaceutical industry, there have been 226
announced acquisitions in the past 12 months with an average
disclosed deal size of $204.7 million and an average premium of
40 percent including net debt, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag in New York at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in New York at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  