-- 
Croatia Close to Concluding Talks With EU, Barroso Says

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c   a n d   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 
2011-06-07T14:21:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/croatia-close-to-concluding-talks-with-eu-barroso-says-1-.html
Croatia is very close to concluding
talks with the commission and “very good news” for the Balkan
country may arrive on June 10, European Commission President
 Jose Barroso  said.  The former Yugoslav republic has concluded talks in 31 out
of 35 policy areas and hopes to join the European Union on July
1, 2013. Among the remaining challenges is in the judiciary and
fundamental rights, where Croatia must make progress.  “I believe we are very close to concluding negotiations
with Croatia, at least on the part of the commission,” Barroso
said today at a press conference in Strasbourg,  France . “We are
about to reach a decisive moment in Croatia’s long journey
toward European Union membership. I believe there will be some
very good news in this regard.”  The Adriatic Sea nation has worked for more than a decade
to negotiate entry to the 27-member trading area and bring its
laws in line with those in the bloc to help open its economy and
boost growth.  “The European Commission will on” June 10 “give a
recommendation to member countries to conclude the talks with
 Croatia ,” said Vesna Pusic, head of the national committee for
overseeing the talks.  “The final decision rests on the member countries and we
will probably find out during the EU Council meeting on June 23
and 24,” Pusic said today in a phone interview from Zagreb. She
said Croatia will then also find out whether the EU will
continue to monitor Croatia’s progress until the entry.  “We are in the sixth year of the formal talks, and the
11th year of the overall negotiating process. In this time we
have not reached a perfect situation, but we have created a
foundation on which to build a functional EU member state,” she
said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story: Jasmina
Kuzmanovic at   jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: James M. Gomez
at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  