-- 
Oil Rises; SocGen Sees 65% Chance OPEC to Raise Output Quotas

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-06-07T09:35:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/crude-oil-advances-socgen-sees-65-chance-opec-to-raise-production-quotas.html
Crude rose, reversing earlier losses,
amid speculation the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries may reduce supply in response to slowing demand.  Futures gained as much as 0.3 percent in  New York . The
 International Energy Agency  on May 12 trimmed its 2011 global
oil demand forecast for the first time as this year’s price
rally begins to weigh on consumers. There is a 65 percent chance
OPEC will raise its production quota to lessen the risk high
prices will curb demand, Societe Generale SA said in a report.  “The current data coming out suggest a fall off in
economic activity and a decrease in demand,” said Alexander Ridgers, head of commodities at CMC Markets in London. “If this
happens OPEC will tighten their supply.”  Crude for July delivery rose as much as 29 cents to $99.30
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $99.14 at 10:33 a.m. London time. Prices are
up 39 percent the past year.  Brent crude  for July delivery was
at $114.78 a barrel, up 30 cents, on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  OPEC may raise output quotas by 1.5 million barrels a day
versus actual production when it meets tomorrow, said Societe
Generale analysts led by  Michael Wittner  in New York. “This
meeting result is not a slam dunk, though, with a 65 percent
probability and a medium level of conviction,” the report said.  Supply Cuts  The producer group announced its biggest-ever supply cuts
in late 2008 amid a collapse in global demand, capping
production at 24.845 million barrels a day for all members
except  Iraq , which is exempt from the quota system. Its
compliance rate with those limits was 69 percent in April, OPEC
said in its monthly report on May 12.  “OPEC will increase quotas slightly to bring them closer
to actual production,” said Axel Herlinghaus, Frankfurt-based
senior commodities analyst at DZ Bank AG, which trades crude in
New York and London. “The quotas are irrelevant at the
moment.”  The group won’t announce a supply increase and will keep
its formal output quota unchanged for an eighth consecutive
meeting at the June 8 gathering, according to a Bloomberg survey
of analysts. Venezuelan Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  also said
the group is unlikely to raise production.  The 11 OPEC members bound by the output quotas produced
26.2 million barrels a day in May, or about 1.4 million barrels
more than they pledged, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts, producers and oil companies. Total supply including
Iraq was 28.9 million barrels a day last month.  Welcome Increase  The global crude market would “welcome” increased oil
production from OPEC, Vitol Group Chief Executive Officer Ian Taylor said.  Brent has advanced 21 percent this year as unrest in the
 Middle East  and North Africa toppled leaders in Tunisia and
 Egypt  and spread to  Libya . The fighting in Libya has removed
about 1.5 million barrels a day of output from market.  The European benchmark contract traded at a premium of
$15.61 a barrel to U.S. futures today. The difference between
front-month contracts in London and New York reached a record
$19.54 on Feb. 21. It averaged 76 cents last year.  A report from the U.S. Energy Department tomorrow may show
U.S. gasoline stockpiles climbed by 1 million barrels last week
from 212.3 million, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts. Crude inventories probably dropped 1.5 million
barrels, the survey shows.  Options traders increased bets that  oil prices  will fall
further. The most-active option yesterday was the July $95 put,
which rose 17 cents to 79 cents. The second-most active contract
was the August $90 put, which climbed 13 cents to $1.05.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in  London  
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  