-- 
Deutsche Boerse, NYSE Offer Special Dividend

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-06-07T17:19:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/deutsche-boerse-nyse-offer-special-dividend.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
pledged to pay a one-time dividend as they seek shareholder
approval for a takeover that would create the world’s largest
exchange company.  The payout totals about 620 million euros ($910 million),
equivalent to 2 euros per Deutsche Boerse share or $1.37 per
NYSE share, the bourses said in a statement today. Deutsche
Boerse also plans to buy out Eurex, which it owns jointly with
SIX Group AG, operator of the Swiss stock exchange, the
Frankfurt-based company said in a separate statement.  Deutsche Boerse agreed to buy NYSE Euronext, owner of the
New York Stock Exchange and the Liffe derivatives market, for
$9.53 billion in February. An obstacle to the merger was removed
last month when  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  and  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ)  dropped their competing offer after the  U.S.
Department of Justice  threatened an antitrust lawsuit.  The special dividend “is a sign of the new holding
company’s intention to pursue both shareholder value creation
and prudent capital management policies,”  Reto Francioni , chief
executive officer of Deutsche Boerse, said in the statement.  Deutsche Boerse needs 75 percent of shareholders to approve
its purchase of NYSE Euronext by July 13. The special dividend
will only be paid to those who tender their stock, according to
today’s statement. NYSE Euronext requires investors holding at
least 50 percent of its shares to vote in favor of the bid.  ‘Reluctant to Tender’  “The requirement that shares to be tendered to qualify for
the special dividend could encourage Deutsche Boerse
shareholders that may have been reluctant to tender or undecided
until now,” Niamh Alexander, a New York-based analyst at Keefe
Bruyette & Woods Ltd., wrote in a note to investors.  The combined exchange should save more than 51 million
euros by having common trading and clearing infrastructure,
combining networks and “eliminating overlapping IT functions,”
they said June 1 to shareholders in Eschborn,  Germany  for
Deutsche Boerse’s annual investor day. The two companies plan a
“further refinement of corporate functions” and a “central
European market operations hub for cash, derivatives and
clearing.”  Deutsche Boerse’s works council, which represents the
company’s employees, has urged shareholders to reject the
takeover. Many cross-border deals have destroyed value for
shareholders and Germany’s importance as a financial center will
diminish if the deal goes ahead, the council wrote in a letter.  Eurex Control  Deutsche Boerse today said it will take complete control of
Eurex,  Europe ’s largest futures market, by buying out Zurich-
based SIX Group. Deutsche Boerse owns 50 percent of Eurex at
present and gets 85 percent of its revenue and profit.  The Swiss exchange will get 295 million euros in cash and
the same amount in shares of the combined Deutsche Boerse-NYSE
entity, the companies said. The deal is due to close in 2012 and
 Deutsche Boerse  “expects an immediate net income accretion.”
If the buyout had been completed in the first quarter of 2011 it
would have boosted income by 15 million euros, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  