-- 
Dimon Asks Bernanke Whether Post-Crisis Rules Are Holding Back U.S. Growth

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-06-08T00:02:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/dimon-asks-bernanke-whether-post-crisis-rules-are-holding-back-u-s-growth.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  asked Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  whether regulators have gone too far by reining in the
U.S. banking system and are slowing economic growth.  Dimon asked whether the central banker has measured the
cumulative effects of new  capital requirements , mortgage
standards and other rules imposed on the system in the wake of
the U.S. financial crisis. Dimon, 55, spoke yesterday in a
question-and-answer session after Bernanke addressed a
conference of bankers in Atlanta.  Dimon asked Bernanke if he “has a fear like I do” that
overzealous regulation “will be the reason it took so long that
our banks, our credit, our businesses and most importantly  job
creation  to start going again. Is this holding us back at this
point?”  The Fed may hold the benchmark interest rate near zero into
next year. The U.S. unemployment rate rose to 9.1 percent in May
while U.S. home prices slumped in March to their lowest level
since 2003, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property
values in 20 cities. Banks have tightened lending standards to
what they were 30 years ago, Dimon said.  “There’s no more subprime, there’s no more Alt-A, there’s
no more mortgages being packaged, the CMBS market has been
completely reformed,” he said, referring to commercial
mortgage-backed securities. “I have a great fear someone’s
going to try to write a book in 20 years and the book is going
to talk about all the things that we did in the middle of the
crisis to actually slow down recovery.”  ‘Too Complicated’  Dimon’s points are valid, Bernanke said at the  American
Bankers Association ’s International Monetary Conference. The
central bank doesn’t have the quantitative tools to study the
net impact of all the regulatory and market changes over the
last three years, he said.  “It’s too complicated,” Bernanke said, adding that he
said he thinks there’s a way to safely regulate banks while
preserving their ability to deliver “basic financial
services.”  “But there is some trade-off there and you’re right to
point that out,” Bernanke said. “It’s probably going to take a
bit of time before we over time figure out where the cost
exceeds the benefits and we make the appropriate adjustments.”  Richard Bove , an analyst with Rochdale Securities in Lutz,
 Florida , agreed with Dimon’s comments in a research note to
clients yesterday.  National Economy  “Hysterical Congress people and ‘born again’ regulators
have single-mindedly pursued an attack on the banking system,
totally unmindful of the impact of what they were doing would be
on the national economy,” Bove wrote.  Dimon told investors at a conference in  New York  on June 2
that his bank, the most profitable in the U.S., probably will
not hold mortgages on its books under a plan to require the
largest lenders to hold extra capital.  JPMorgan won’t make “an adequate return” on certain
products under the proposed rules and will have to reduce
portfolio assets, including mortgages, that require higher
levels of capital, Dimon said.  “Why would we own mortgages if you can own them at 7
percent capital and I have to own them at 10 percent?” Dimon
said. The New York-based bank will still originate mortgages,
“I just don’t own them,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  