-- 
Dollar Declines as Fed’s Bernanke Says Economy Remains in Need of a Boost

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-07T21:05:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/dollar-declines-as-fed-s-bernanke-says-economy-remains-in-need-of-a-boost.html
The dollar fell against most its
major counterparts as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the central bank should maintain record monetary stimulus
to boost a “frustratingly slow” economic recovery.  The yen reached the strongest level against the greenback
in a month as Bernanke spoke to bankers in Atlanta. The euro
remained at a four-week high against the U.S. and Japanese
currencies as investors speculated the  European Central Bank 
will signal further interest rate increases on June 9 while the
Fed and  Bank of Japan  keep lending rates at record lows.  “He won’t say it outright, but he’s saying that there are
some changes that the Fed is looking at and the economy is not
totally out of the water yet,” said  Brian Taylor , chief
currency trader a Manufacturers & Traders Trust in Buffalo, New
York. “The dollar is sitting idle right now waiting for more
information about the economy.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which
measures the greenback against the currencies of six trading
partners, fell 0.6 percent to 73.521 at 5:01 p.m. in New York,
from 73.989. It touched 73.506, the lowest since May 5.  Euro, Yen  The euro advanced 0.8 percent to $1.4691 and reached
$1.4697, the highest level since May 5. The single currency
climbed 0.8 percent to 117.67 yen. It touched 117.90, the
strongest in a month. The Japanese currency traded at 80.09 per
dollar after touching 79.98, the strongest since June 6.  U.S. stocks erased gains, falling for the fifth consecutive
session. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent after
earlier gaining 0.8 percent.  Bernanke and his fellow policy makers plan this month to
complete a $600 billion bond purchase program, and they’re
discussing the tools they’d use to withdraw stimulus, according
to minutes of their meeting in April. The Fed’s target rate for
overnight lending between banks has been held at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  Investors expect the ECB to increase  interest rates  by 81
basis points in the next 12 months, versus 18 basis points for
the Fed and three basis points for the Bank of  Japan , according
to Credit Suisse Group AG indexes based on swaps.  “The ECB is likely to hint towards a rate hike in July on
Thursday by using the verbal cue ‘strong vigilance,’” said  Mark McCormick , a New York-based currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. “Economic fundamentals right now show
no reason to be long dollars.” A long position is a bet that an
assets will increase in value.  Trichet Accepts  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet yesterday gave his first
signal that he endorses encouraging investors to buy new Greek
bonds to replace maturing securities, potentially making the
debt situation more sustainable.  A debt rollover is being considered as an alternative means
of easing  Greece ’s funding squeeze, two officials familiar with
the matter said last week on condition of anonymity. Investors
may be given preferred status, higher coupon payments or
collateral as incentives to roll over the holdings when they
mature, two separate officials, who declined to be identified
because the talks are in progress, said last week.  The euro has strengthened 1.5 percent in the past week,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
underpinned by signs of recovery in  Europe .  Yen Status  The yen fell against 11 of 16 most-traded counterparts
after being the top performer yesterday and touching a one-month
high against the dollar.  Japan’s Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said in  Tokyo  today
he’s monitoring the yen’s appreciation while conceding that the
market’s view on the  U.S. economy  was likely behind its moves.
It was the first time in a month Noda announced he’s watching
the markets, a comment that Japanese officials have made in the
past as a preliminary signal they may intervene in the  currency
market .  “If Japanese stocks suddenly collapse the possibility of
joint intervention will be increased but the current comment
from the Finance Minister seems to be just a bluff,” said
Mamoru Arai, a senior currency trader at Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. in  New York . “We have lots of Japanese customers put in
buy orders under 80, so the market does not want to try the
downside now.”  The Swiss franc weakened against all 16 of its most-traded
counterparts as data showed consumer prices were steady last
month, damping speculation that the nation’s central bank will
raise borrowing costs.  Swiss Inflation  Consumer-price inflation in May was unchanged from a month
earlier, the Federal Statistics Office in Neuchatel said today.
Prices rose 0.4 percent from a year earlier. Economists’ median
estimate was for a monthly decline of 0.1 percent.  The franc weakened 0.2 percent to 83.63 centimes from 83.46
yesterday.  South Africa ’s rand was the best performer against the
dollar, rising 1.2 percent to 6.7107, after reports showed the
central bank’s foreign currency and gold reserves fell. The rand
has gained 15.5 percent against the dollar in the past year.  “The numbers suggest that after a period of aggressive
intervention, the authorities are doing less to combat rand
strength,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency
strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote to
clients. “The bottom line is that the authorities can’t do much
about the currency, even if they wanted to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  