-- 
Dollar, U.S. Economy May Fall in Tandem, Citigroup Says: Chart of the Day

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-06-07T13:23:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/dollar-u-s-economy-may-fall-in-tandem-citigroup-says-chart-of-the-day.html
The dollar, which benefited from
periods of economic weakness during the financial crisis, may be
poised to end that relationship as prospects for additional
economic stimulus diminish, according to Citigroup Inc.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how the dollar rose and fell
inversely to the performance of U.S. data in the two years after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy in 2008,
while this year the currency has paralleled weaker economic
reports. The dollar gained after the financial crisis began as
investors sought it as a refuge, then slipped as risk appetite
was buoyed by government and  Federal Reserve  stimulus programs.  “The market may be making too casual an assumption that
U.S. economic weakness is good news for everyone else,” Steven Englander, head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup in
New York, said in an interview. ”Over the last two years when
you did have U.S. economic weakness, you also had a policy
response.”  There may not be another round this year of such efforts as
the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and the Federal
Reserve’s asset purchases, even as unemployment remains above 9
percent, Englander said.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s Dollar Index has dropped
6.9 percent this year and reached 72.696 on May 4, the lowest
level since July 2008. U.S. economic data is underperforming by
the most since December 2008, three months after Lehman’s
bankruptcy helped fuel the financial crisis, according to
Citigroup’s U.S. Surprise Index. The measure examines historical
standard deviations of data surprises by comparing releases with
Bloomberg median estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  