-- 
The Arithmetic and Politics of a Social Security Solution: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-07T04:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/the-arithmetic-and-politics-of-a-social-security-solution-view.html
Here’s a positive thought for the
day: Social Security can be fixed.  Last month, the  Social Security trustees  reported that the
government pension system will run dry in 2036. Because the
program by law can’t borrow money to pay retirees, and because
payroll taxes levied on workers in 25 years will cover only
three-fourths of benefits, recipients will face immediate and
harsh across-the-board cuts.  What should Congress do to fund the retirement program
another 75 years -- most analysts’ definition of the long term
-- and keep it on a sustainable path after that?  Well, there are only two ways to fix Social Security --
either by raising taxes or reducing benefits. Fortunately, there
are many options within those broad categories that spread the
burden widely while increasing payments to the very old and the
very poor (see chart on the left).  Private accounts shouldn’t be among them. If workers divert
some of their payroll taxes to an investment account, that would
worsen matters by decreasing the flow of money into Social
Security and depriving retirees of benefits of equal value. Bad
investment choices, or bear markets that dent returns on stocks
and bonds, could add to their woes.  The fairest solution would be a gradual rise in the
standard retirement age. When President  Franklin D. Roosevelt 
signed the law that created  Social Security in 1935 , the
official retirement age was set at 65, one year beyond the
average life expectancy of 64. As Americans’ life spans have
increased, the retirement age has not kept up.  Wider Gap  The official retirement age -- when full benefits are paid
-- is now 66 (due to rise to 67 by 2027), well below the average
life expectancy of 78 years and four months. The gap is even
wider for the 40 percent of Americans who start collecting some
benefits at age 62, albeit at a lower rate. President  Barack Obama ’s bipartisan deficit commission had the right idea when it
recommended that Congress index the retirement age to longevity
by adding one month every two years, until 2075. That year,
standard retirement would begin at 69 and early retirement at
64. Those who performed back-breaking labor and physically can’t
work beyond 62 would be able to apply for a hardship exemption.
Adjusting retirement ages alone would erase about 21 percent of
the 75-year Social Security shortfall.  Delaying retirement would also help the  U.S. economy  by
adding to the number of years that workers pay into the system.
The American population is aging rapidly. Today, 53 million
people collect Social Security benefits; by 2035, that number
will jump 75 percent, to 93 million people.  Baby Boomers   Meanwhile, the prime working-age population -- ages 20 to
64 -- will increase only 10 percent, leaving employers desperate
for workers as baby boomers leave the scene. The U.S. will not
see a population decline, as is expected in  Japan  and Western
Europe, but the meager increase in working-age population will
slow economic growth and reduce income-tax revenue unless those
over 65 delay retirement.  The next best method for closing the Social Security
funding gap could come from adopting a more accurate measure of
inflation to calculate cost-of-living adjustments in benefits.
The government now uses the standard  Consumer Price Index . But
the  Bureau of Labor Statistics  and many economists say the CPI
overstates the cost of living because it fails to account for
the product substitutions people make when prices rise. A better
index, called the “chained CPI,” models the ways consumers
keep their expenses steady by switching to apples when the cost
of oranges goes up. Using the chained CPI would close another 25
percent of the funding shortfall.  More Progressive  Those two changes would put us almost halfway toward the
goal. To close much of the remaining gap, the best choice
involves raising taxes on those in high wage brackets, thus
making the system more progressive.  Currently, Social Security taxes are paid on wages up to
$106,800, at a rate of 12.4 percent -- half paid by the employer
and half by the employee. (The self-employed must pay the entire
12.4 percent.) Earnings above $106,800 are exempt, yet that’s
where most of the wage growth has been in the past few decades.
In the early 1980s, payroll taxes covered 90 percent of wages;
today they reach only 85 percent.  To restore the 90 percent standard, Congress could raise
the  payroll-tax  cap to $180,000. Such a change would hit high-
income Americans whose personal savings, company pensions and
tax-protected 401(k)  retirement plans  provide nest eggs far
beyond what Social Security provides. This would take care of 38
percent of the shortfall.  Tax Benefits  An additional 14 percent could be raised by taxing Social
Security benefits the same way that private pension income is
now taxed -- that is, only on the portion of the pension
contributed by the employer,  as the employee portion was
already subject to income tax -- phased in over 20 years. This
would result in a tax increase for future beneficiaries, but
those in lower-income brackets could be exempted to keep the
payroll tax progressive.  The final 9 percent of the shortfall could be found by
requiring newly hired state and local government workers to pay
into the federal system. About 5.7 million public-sector workers
don’t pay Social Security taxes because they are covered by
state and local government pension plans. Requiring new
government hires to join Social Security would also bolster the
program’s role as a national  pension plan  in which all American
workers have a stake.  Wealthy Americans  Taken together, the changes would rely 60 percent on tax
increases and 40 percent on benefit cuts, and mainly affect the
wealthiest Americans. They would create enough wiggle room to
enhance benefits for the very oldest and the very poorest
retirees.  Often these are one and the same people. By 2050, there
will be 19 million Americans, up from 6 million now, over 85.
Octogenarians often outlive their personal savings just as their
out-of-pocket medical expenses are rising rapidly. To keep the
very old from falling into poverty, lawmakers could create a
minimum benefit of 125 percent of the federal poverty level (now
about $1,100 a month), adding about 6 percentage points to the
Social Security deficit.  Each of these suggestions has been endorsed or included as
part of a menu of options by the president’s deficit commission
and other economic research groups. The savings and cost
estimates come from the Social Security chief actuary, the
independent official who has analyzed the financial effects of
dozens of proposals, all available at www.ssa.gov/oact/.  Worthy Alternative  A panel led by Alice M. Rivlin, a White House budget
director under President  Bill Clinton , and Pete V. Domenici, a
former Republican senator from  New Mexico , floated an
 alternative  also worth considering: Subjecting the premiums paid
by both employers and employees for group health insurance to
Social Security and income taxes.  More than 50 million people now receive a Social Security
check. It’s the main income source for more than half of all
elderly households.  To avoid causing a crushing hardship on the
elderly of the future, lawmakers should fix the system now.  The
longer they wait, the harder it is to close the gap.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 