-- 
E. Coli in Europe May Hurt U.S. Produce Sales

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-06-07T20:34:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/e-coli-in-europe-may-hurt-u-s-produce-sales-until-cause-found.html
Fresh and organic produce sales may
decline in the U.S. because of an E. coli outbreak in  Europe 
before rebounding once confusion over the cause is resolved,
according to an industry group.  German officials backed away yesterday from comments that
sprouts from an organic farm in Lower Saxony were the likely
cause of the deadly E. coli case after initial tests at the farm
failed to find traces of the bacteria. At least 23 people have
died of the 2,429 stricken since May 2, the European Centre for
Disease Prevention and Control said today.  Consumers in the U.S. may shy away from produce until they
get clearer information on the cases in Europe and regain their
confidence in food safeguards, Dave Gombas, senior vice
president for food safety and technology with the United Fresh
Produce Association, said in an interview yesterday.  “Getting consumer trust back is a very difficult thing,”
said Gombas, whose Washington-based group represents companies
such as Dole Food Co. and  Chiquita Brands International Inc. (CQB) 
“Growers and handlers are following the right practices, and we
have to let people know we are doing that.”  German authorities originally blamed cucumbers in  Spain ,
then focused on the organic farm near the German town of Uelzen.
Officials of Lower Saxony state said yesterday that initial
tests from the farm showed no evidence of the bacteria while
some samples were still being checked.  Contaminated Seed  Sprouts can’t be ruled out as a cause of the outbreak
because the bacterium may be gone from the farm where they were
grown, scientists said. Traces may be undetectable now if the
offending produce was grown from a depleted batch of
contaminated seed weeks ago, said  James Paton , head of the
bacterial pathogenesis laboratory at the University of Adelaide
in South Australia.  In the U.S., Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce
Committee requested a hearing on lessons of the outbreak for the
nation’s food system. The European cases involve a strain that
produces a toxin not usually seen in E. coli.  “What are the implications for the United States of a
significant outbreak of what was previously an uncommon
pathogenic strain?” the lawmakers, led by Representative Henry Waxman of California, said yesterday in a letter to the panel’s
Republican majority. “A better understanding of what sparked
this major outbreak in the European Union will help us to
determine the prospect for an outbreak of this pathogen in the
 United States .”  Cutbacks in state and local government disease detection
and response programs might hinder investigations of U.S.
outbreaks, said  Thomas Frieden , director of the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.  Import Alerts  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  has “import alerts
and mechanisms in place” to prevent European produce that may
pose a risk from entering the country, Michael Taylor, the
agency’s deputy commissioner for foods, said today in
 Washington .  The U.S. imports “little or no produce from Europe so it’s
not a significant threat,” he said. The outbreak is “almost a
classic case of an emerging pathogen” that’s a scientific
challenge because “bacteria themselves change,” he said.  United Natural Foods Inc. (UNFI)  has yet to see a decline in
sales, according to Mark Shamber, chief financial officer of the
company, the largest distributor of organic and specialty
products in  North America .  United Natural Foods  The effect on consumers can’t be evaluated until the source
of the bacteria’s spread is identified, said Shamber, whose
business sells food to grocers including  Target Corp. (TGT) , Whole
Foods Market Inc.,  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  and  Kroger Co. (KR)   United Natural Foods has fallen 5.6 percent in Nasdaq Stock
Market composite trading since May 25, a day after the European
cases became public. Today, the Providence, Rhode Island-based
company rose 21 cents to $40.43 at 4 p.m.  In a 2006 outbreak, spinach in  California  was contaminated
by E. coli, killing three people and sickening 200. Cow feces
had contaminated water on the farmland where the vegetable grew,
a conclusion made after weeks of investigations as sales of the
leafy green plummeted.  Episodes of contaminated eggs, peanut butter and meat have
produced sales slumps at food companies whose products weren’t
making people sick.  The cases have prompted grocery stores to use signs and
food labels to better inform consumers where their food comes
from, said Jennifer Dennis, an associate professor of
horticulture and agricultural economics at  Purdue University  in
West Lafayette,  Indiana . That should make consumers less likely
to panic at an outbreak abroad, she said.  “I could see there being a little bit of skepticism, but
in the long-term produce season I don’t see things slipping” in
the U.S., Dennis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  