-- 
E. Coli Outbreak Kills One More Patient as Source Eludes Investigators

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-06-07T16:02:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/e-coli-deaths-at-23-after-another-fatality-as-source-eludes-investigators.html
Germany’s E. coli outbreak killed
another patient, bringing the death tally to 23, and sickened 96
more people as officials continued to search for a source.  At least 674 people have developed a life-threatening
complication from E. coli in  Europe  out of the 2,429 who have
been stricken since May 2, the European Centre for Disease
Prevention and Control  said today .  German authorities came under fire for being too quick to
point to a cause for the second time since the infections began
a month ago.  France , the European Union’s largest agricultural
grower, will back a plan to compensate producers hurt by the
outbreak, which has decimated consumer demand for vegetables and
pointed to shortcomings in the 27-nation bloc’s food-safety
system, Agriculture Minister Bruno Le Maire said.  “There has been a failure, there has been a great failure,
and we have to take that into account and try to improve our
safety system so that it will never happen again,” Le Maire
said in an interview in  London  today.  German officials initially blamed Spanish cucumbers. Two
days ago, they said sprouts from an organic farm near the town
of Uelzen played a role in the outbreak. Yesterday, authorities
in Lower Saxony state said initial tests from the farm showed no
evidence of the bacteria.  European Health Commissioner John Dalli, speaking at the
European Parliament in Strasbourg, emphasized the need to
“reduce unnecessary fears” by communicating facts that are
based on science rather than speculation.  700 Tests  Lower Saxony has conducted more than 700 tests, of which
415 have come back negative for E. coli while another 287 tests
still need to be analyzed, authorities said today in an e-mailed
statement. The results of 500 samples taken from the farm near
Uelzen are not yet available, the statement said.  “It is crucial that national authorities do not rush to
give information on a source of infection that is not” backed
by science analysis, Dalli said. “We must be careful not to
make premature conclusions.”  The strain of E. coli involved in the outbreak produces a
toxin that attacks the kidneys and blood vessels. Most cases
have occurred in adult women and those who recently traveled to
the north of  Germany  -- mainly Schleswig-Holstein, Lower Saxony,
North-Rhine-Westphalia and Hamburg, the Stockholm-based European
health agency said.  ‘Go for Salad and Die’  “It’s not normal that people go out for a salad and die of
the consequences,” Linda McAvan, a U.K. member of the European
Parliament, said today at a session devoted to the outbreak.  Sprouts can’t be ruled out as a cause of the outbreak
because the bacterium may be gone from the farm where they were
grown, scientists said. Traces may be undetectable now if the
offending produce was grown from a depleted batch of
contaminated seed weeks ago, said  James Paton , head of the
bacterial pathogenesis laboratory at the University of Adelaide
in  South Australia .  The cause of the month-old epidemic remains unknown,
according to health officials in Hamburg, which the European
Union said is the “epicenter” of illnesses. Seventeen cases
were tied to a restaurant in Luebeck, about 65 kilometers (40
miles) away, which got supplies from Hamburg.  Sprout Supplier  “They are still pretty strongly suspicious of the sprouts
because the epidemiological link was strong,” Paton said in a
telephone interview today. “It’s just that they haven’t found
it at the farm.”  The property, Gaertnerhof Bienenbuettel, which has produced
sprouts for 25 years, said it recalled produce and informed its
customers immediately. Lab tests in mid-May found no evidence of
E. coli, its proprietors said in a  statement , adding they were
“shocked and concerned” at being linked to the infection.  While the number of new cases of E. coli infection is
rising at a slower rate, it’s too early to “give the all-
clear,” said Cornelia Pruefer-Storcks, the health senator for
the city of Hamburg, at a press briefing today. She said the
exact cause of the outbreak may never be known.  The epidemic has killed more people and resulted in more
cases of severe kidney damage than any outbreak on record. About
9,451 people were sickened and 12 killed in a series of
outbreaks in  Japan  between May and December 1996, according to a
1999 study in the  American Journal of Epidemiology . The majority
of those cases were acquired by tainted radish sprouts in school
lunches.  Infected Seeds  Radish seeds experimentally infected with the germ produced
contaminated sprouts, suggesting the original source may not be
the farm supplying the produce, researchers in  Tokyo  reported in
a  1998 study .  “All of their water systems may be perfectly OK and their
production methods may be fine, it’s just that they are starting
off with contaminated seed stock,” said Paton, who was among
the first scientists to use DNA analysis to trace food-borne
outbreaks in Australia in the early 1990s. “If you just had a
single-batch contamination, then the likelihood of there being
any traces left over are remote.”  Evidence in restaurants and households may also be hard to
find as any offending sprouts would likely have perished in the
weeks since cases were first reported, he said.  Seeking a Source  It’s possible the source of the German outbreak may never
be discovered, said  Robert Hall , a senior research fellow at
Monash University’s School of  Public Health  and Preventive
Medicine in  Melbourne ,  Australia .  “It gets really tough at this stage, and I suspect they
may not get it out,” said Hall, who investigated outbreaks of
food-borne diseases as the former director of communicable
disease control with the South Australian health department in
Adelaide.  “You have got to make a lot of fine judgments and you’ve
got to do them in a tearing rush, and with the eyes of the
world’s media glaring at you,” Hall said in a telephone
interview today.  Most disease investigators use methods based on those
described by  Michael Gregg , an epidemiologist with the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention who edited the
textbook Field Epidemiology in 1996, Hall said.  Food Targets  The process typically involves interviewing dozens of
people who fell ill to screen for potential risk factors,
including commonly consumed food and beverage items, he said.
The same questions are then posed to about three times as many
unaffected people, or “controls,” and the data compared in
order to discern key differences.  “That’s quite a difficult thing to do, especially if
you’re doing it in a big rush, which you always are,” Hall
said. “On the basis of the differences, you can get an
epidemiological association, which if you’re lucky, you can then
use to identify the food and test the food. And if you’re really
lucky, it turns out positive as well.”  Once food targets have been identified, investigators will
usually also look for possible contaminants in the environment,
Hall said.  “Part of the difficulty is that it might be quite
widespread through all kinds of cross-contamination mechanisms,
or it might just be a single producer,” he said. “If it’s a
single producer, then that’s usually quite easy to control once
you’ve found it. Then the court cases begin.”  EU agriculture ministers are meeting in Luxembourg today.
Vegetable supplies are being destroyed and prices for cucumbers,
lettuce and tomatoes are tumbling after demand slumped and
 Russia  banned imports. Farmers are losing millions of euros a
day and some are being forced out of business by the crisis,
according to Copa-Cogeca, a farm lobby group based in Brussels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  