-- 
East African Nations May Slow Deficit Reduction to Support Economic Growth

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-06-07T12:42:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/east-african-nations-may-slow-deficit-reduction-support-growth.html
Kenya, Tanzania and  Uganda  may scale
back  deficit reduction  plans in the next fiscal year as they
ramp up investment to maintain economic growth and cut taxes to
ease the impact of rising food and fuel prices.  Finance ministers from the three nations, which have a
combined gross domestic product of $67.5 billion and 111 million
people, will tomorrow release budgets plans for the year through
June 2012.  Persistent fiscal deficits and higher inflation are raising
borrowing costs, with the yield on Kenya’s 91-day Treasury bill
surging to a nine-year high of 8.8 percent at the last auction
on June 2. The rate on Uganda’s three-month security jumped to
11.9 percent on June 1, almost triple the level of a year
earlier.  “You’re not likely to see a significant decline in the
fiscal deficit for at least a couple of years given the spending
pressure from projects in the pipeline and because they’ll have
to trim revenue to ease the cost of living,” Yvonne Mhango, an
economist with Renaissance Capital Ltd., said by phone from
Johannesburg on May 26. Government debt yields may “come under
pressure to increase.”  Mhango forecasts  Kenya ’s budget deficit at 5.5 percent of
GDP in 2011-2012, wider than the 5 percent envisioned in a
government budget  statement  in March. Tanzania’s shortfall will
shrink to 6 percent of GDP next year, from 6.5 percent in 2011,
John Wakeman-Linn, the International Monetary Fund’s
representative in the country, said in an e-mailed response to
questions on June 6.  Food and Subsidies  Uganda ’s deficit may widen to 4.8 percent of GDP in 2010-
2011 from 4.7 percent the year earlier, the Finance Ministry
said today. Protests in April and May by opposition supporters
over the rising cost of living have added to pressure on the
government to raise spending.  Kenya, which is preparing for a presidential election next
year, has reduced taxes for cooking fuels, diesel and imported
wheat and corn. In Tanzania, the inflation rate jumped to a 12-
month high after power outages led businesses to rely on
costlier diesel-power generators. The government may cut fuel
levies in the budget, said Finance Minster Mustafa Mkulo,
according to the Dar es Salaam-based Daily News on May 2.  “Rising prices are causing massive stress, and if they
want to avoid civil unrest they are going to have to reduce the
pain on food and fuel,”  Aly-Khan Satchu , a Nairobi-based
independent financial analyst, said by phone on May 30.  Currency Decline  Kenya’s shilling has declined 7.8 percent against the
dollar this year and is the world’s third-worst performing
currency over the period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Tanzania’s currency has weakened 5.5 percent, the
world’s fifth-worst, while Uganda’s shilling fell 3.6 percent.  Kenya may ask lenders such as the World Bank and  African
Development Bank  for more financial help, while Tanzania and
Uganda have scope to step up borrowing from the local market,
 David Cowan , Citigroup’s  Africa  economist, said by phone from
 London  on May 26. Tanzania and Kenya aim to revive plans to
issue sovereign bonds in the next two fiscal years, he said.  In the long-run, upgrading poor roads, ports and power
plants is the top investment priority to remove some of the main
obstacles to faster economic growth, Cowan said.  Growth Outlook  The  World Bank  on June 2 cut its estimate for Kenyan
expansion to 4.8 percent this year from 5.3 percent after dry
weather reduced farming output. Tanzania’s growth may ease to 6
percent from 7 percent last year due to power outages, the IMF
said on May 10.  Uganda’s Finance Ministry today cut its growth forecast for
the fiscal year ending June 30 to 6.3 percent from 6.4 percent
following a slump in the production of cash crops. Uganda is
Africa’s second-biggest producer of coffee after  Ethiopia .  Kenya will increase spending by 16 percent to 1.16 trillion
shillings ($13.3 billion) in 2011-2012, including a 35 percent
jump in infrastructure investment, Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said on June 2. Uganda plans to spend 828.6 billion
shillings ($347 million) in 2011-2012 developing the 650-
megawatt Karuma Hydropower project along the Nile River, the
 Finance Ministry  said May 30.  A third of Tanzania’s 12.8 trillion-shilling ($8.2-billion)
budget, up 10 percent from last year, is earmarked for
development projects, Zitto Kabwe, chairman of the parliamentary
accounts committee, said on June 1.  While investment is rising, tax collection is weaker than
expected. Kenya’s third-quarter  revenue  was 7.3 percent below
target, while Uganda fell 6 percent short of its income  goal  in
the financial year ending June 30, 2010.  “I can’t see them reducing their deficits in the near- to
short-term,” Nikhil Hira, a tax partner with Deloitte East
Africa, said by phone from Nairobi, Kenya’s capital, on May 31.
“Tax revenues aren’t to target and they just can’t stop
spending if they want economic growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 