-- 
Medco Pharmacy Benefits Dominance in Peril as Loss of Top Contract Looms

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r   a n d   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-07T20:15:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/medco-pharmacy-benefits-dominance-in-peril-as-loss-of-top-contract-looms.html
Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS) , the
pharmacy benefits manager that lost $3.5 billion in contracts
since March, may seek acquisitions to make up for lost revenue
if its biggest remaining client fails to re-sign this year.  The $11 billion contract with  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ,
representing about 17 percent of Medco’s business, expires after
2012. The insurer is reviewing the agreement and will decide
whether to renew this year, UnitedHealth Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Hemsley said on June 1. The Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
company is leaning toward terminating the contract and handling
the work with its in-house unit, said  Ana Gupte , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  If so,  Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based Medco will likely
seek acquisitions to help make up for the lost sales by looking
to purchase another pharmacy manager or diversifying beyond its
core business of buying, dispensing and overseeing prescriptions
for companies, analysts said.  “This is an industry where scale matters, and the loss of
UnitedHealth will increase the pressure on Medco executives to
fill in the revenue gap it creates,” said Helene Wolk, an
analyst also at  Sanford Bernstein , in a telephone interview. A
potential target may be  Cigna Corp. (CI) ’s pharmacy unit, which the
insurer tried to sell two years ago, she said.  The loss of UnitedHealth, with its 20 million members, may
drop Medco from the biggest pharmacy benefit manager by revenue
to the smallest, behind Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based  CVS
Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) , of  St. Louis , Wolk
said. Sanford Bernstein has an “outperform” rating on Medco
with a $66 target price.  Share Performance  Medco rose 36 cents to $57.13 at 4:03 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped 11
percent since May 26, the day before the company announced the
loss of a $3 billion contract covering 4 million U.S. government
workers and 9.8 million mail-order prescriptions. Medco in March
lost the renewal of a $500 million contract with the California
Public Employees Retirement System.  The federal-employee contract, lost to CVS, represents less
than 10 percent of Medco’s estimated earnings and won’t affect
2011 results, Jennifer Luddy, a company spokeswoman, said.  Medco is “confident in our differentiated services and
competitive positioning in the marketplace,” Luddy said in an
e-mail. “Our 2011 client retention rate remains at over 99
percent, a result of our focus on superior client service and
the value that we consistently deliver through our advanced
clinical pharmacy model.”  ‘Explore Opportunities’  While Luddy declined to comment specifically on whether
Medco may seek acquisitions to make up for lost contracts, she
said “we are open to and explore opportunities that make
strategic sense.”  UnitedHealth’s contract generates about 8 percent of
Medco’s earnings per share, Bernstein’s Wolk said.  “We expect UnitedHealth is unlikely to renew that contract
for 2013, bringing some or even all PBM activity in-house,”
Gupte, also from Bernstein, wrote in a June 2 note to clients.  UnitedHealth has a unit that manages pharmacy benefits;
taking that business in-house may increase its size by 67
percent, Bernstein’s Wolk said. Investments made in the pharmacy
unit, called Optum Rx, are sufficient to handle the Medco
business, UnitedHealth’s Hemsley said April 21 during an
earnings conference call.  Clear Signals  “I don’t know how the signals could be any clearer,” said
Art Henderson, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,
 Tennessee , in a telephone interview. “United wants to take the
business in-house and Medco will have to be very competitive in
price to maintain any of it.”  To make up for revenue losses, Medco may look to diversify
beyond pharmacy benefits management, as it did Aug. 16 when it
agreed to buy United BioSource Corp. for $730 million, said Ross Muken, an analyst at Deutsche Bank in  New York .  United BioSource, which tests drugs and devices after they
are approved by regulators, “was a completely new offering,”
Muken said in a telephone interview. “I think certainly things
like that will be highly interesting.”  Competition intensified among pharmacy benefits managers
after Express Scripts moved forward with integrating
Indianapolis-based  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ’s pharmacy benefits unit with
25 million members. CVS, in the past year, grabbed a contract
with Capital Blue Cross of  Pennsylvania  from Express Scripts and
the federal workers plan from Medco.  Changing Strategy  “Historically, Medco has never been a fan of just buying
market share,” Eugene Goldenberg, an analyst at BB&T Capital
Markets in New York, said in a telephone interview. “But over
the last six to nine months, we have seen management’s tone
change” toward acquiring another pharmacy benefits manager.  The number of potential targets dwindled after Hartford,
Connecticut-based  Aetna Inc. (AET)  gave a 12-year, $9.5 billion
contract to CVS last July and UnitedHealth began investing in
its pharmacy benefits unit.  Among those left on the market is Philadelphia-based Cigna’s
pharmacy benefits unit with 6.2 million members as of March 31;
 Prime Therapeutics LLC  in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , with about 17
million members; and  MedImpact Healthcare Systems Inc.  in  San
Diego  with about 32 million participants, said Jefferies’s
Henderson. Of the three, Cigna offers the most profitable
business, he said.  Asked about a potential sale, Lindsay Shearer, a Cigna
spokeswoman, said the insurer sees “pharmacy as a key component
of Cigna’s integrated approach to health care.”  “The business has delivered strong results for us,”
Shearer said in an e-mail. “At the same time, we are always
evaluating opportunities to maximize its value for our customers
and shareholders.”  Prime Therapeutics said it has been approached by potential
buyers though it isn’t looking to sell the business. “We are
very pleased with where we stand as an important player in the
PBM market,” said Matt Yordy, senior vice president for
business development.  Taylor Heringer, a spokeswoman for MedImpact, didn’t
respond to requests for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net ;
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 