-- 
Mediacom’s $10.2 Million Buyout-Suit Settlement Approved

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-06-07T19:57:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/mediacom-s-10-2-million-settlement-of-buyout-suits-approved.html
Mediacom Communications Corp. (MCCC) , the
cable-television provider in 1,500 U.S. cities, won approval of
to pay more than $10.2 million to settle investor lawsuits
challenging a buyout by the company’s top executive.  Delaware  Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine Jr. yesterday
approved the accord, which calls for Mediacom Chief Executive
Officer Rocco B. Commisso to add 25 cents to his $8.75-a-share
bid for the 60 percent of the company’s shares he didn’t already
own, said  Brian Long , a lawyer for the investors.  “We are pleased we were able to recover an additional
$10 million for Mediacom shareholders,” Long said in an
interview yesterday.  Commisso already owned 40 percent of Middletown,  New York- 
based Mediacom’s Class A and Class B shares and had 87 percent
voting control of the cable provider. He agreed to pay more than
$600 million to buy out other shareholders and take the company
private. He founded the firm in 1995 and took it public five
years later.  Calvin Craib, a Mediacom spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment today on the settlement.  Commisso, a former banker who specialized in lending to
media and communications companies, first bid $6 a share for the
company. The board rejected that offer.  He boosted the figure to $8.75 after shareholders sued in
Delaware and  New York , challenging the deal.  Adds $3  The executive later agreed to add a total of $3 a share to
his initial offer and make additional disclosures about the
buyout to resolve the suits in both states, Delaware court
filings show.  Commisso won support for the buyout from holders of
97 percent of Mediacom’s outstanding shares in a March vote.  Strine also approved $3 million in legal fees and expenses
for shareholder lawyers, to come out of the settlement fund,
which exceeds $10.2 million, according to the filings.  Mediacom, which said in February that it’s the U.S.’s
eighth-largest cable provider, is joining rivals such as Cox
Communications Inc. in going private. Mediacom has about
1.2 million customers mostly in Iowa and  Illinois .  The founding family of  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , a New
York-area cable provider, has been unsuccessful in two attempts
in the past five years to buy out its public shareholders. Cox,
the third-largest U.S. cable company, went private in 2004.
Insight Communications Co. became private in 2008.  The case is In re Mediacom Communications Corp.
Shareholders Litigation, Consolidated CA No. 5537, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 