-- 
Electronic Arts Shows New Version of ‘Need for Speed’

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-06-07T20:16:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/electronic-arts-to-challenge-grand-theft-zynga.html
(Corrects developers in eighth paragraph of June 6 story)  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS)  previewed “Need
for Speed: The Run,” a racing game similar to  Take-Two
Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) ’s “Grand Theft Auto” series.  The second-largest U.S. video-game publisher showed a
preview of its planned “Star Wars” online game and said at
today’s annual E3 trade show in  Los Angeles  that it will put
“Sims Social” on Facebook to challenge Zynga Inc.  “The Run,” the latest title in the 17-year-old racing
franchise, goes on sale Nov. 15 and lets players race against
each other online. It is the first to offer play outside of
vehicles, allowing mobsters and police to chase main characters,
said Jason DeLong, an executive producer.  Some role-playing, stealth and racing aspects of the game
are similar to New York-based rival Take-Two’s “Grand Theft
Auto.”  Electronic Arts showed a movie trailer of “Star Wars: The
Old Republic,” a multiplayer online game that will challenge
 Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) ’s “World of Warcraft.” Company
executives didn’t set a starting date for sales. Chief Executive
Officer John Riccitiello has previously said the “Star Wars”
game will go on sale this year.  “Sims Social” will debut “soon” on Facebook to
challenge Zynga’s dominance.  Electronic Arts has set a goal of generating more than $1
billion in online revenue in the current fiscal year, joining
 China ’s  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  and Activision Blizzard, based in
Santa Monica, California, in reaching that figure.  ‘Battlefield’ vs. ‘Duty’  The company also set an Oct. 25 date for release of its
“Battlefield 3” shooter game. Developed by a veteran team at
DICE in Stockholm, the new game will challenge the best-selling
“Call of Duty” franchise by hitting retail shelves two weeks
before a new installment of that series arrives.  Electronic Arts also said it wouldn’t charge extra for
online services. Activision’s upcoming “Call of Duty Elite”
online services will have a paying component, the company
announced last week.  Electronic Arts fell 23.5 cents to $27.795 at 4 p.m. in
Nasdaq Market trading. Shares in the company are up 45 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  