-- 
EMC Unit RSA to Replace Security Tokens After Data Breach

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-06-07T12:29:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/emc-unit-rsa-offers-to-replace-security-tokens-after-data-breach.html
EMC Corp.’s security-systems unit RSA
offered to swap the SecurID tokens it provides to clients such
as defense contractors and government agencies after a network
breach disclosed in March resulted in the theft of RSA data.  RSA will replace the tokens if the customer believes it is
necessary, Helen Stefan, a spokeswoman, said in an interview.
She said RSA has about 40 million tokens in use, providing
clients’ employees remote access to internal networks. Its
defense-contractor clients include  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)   In March, Hopkinton, Massachusetts-based EMC said that a
cyber attack resulted in information being taken from its
systems, including data related to RSA’s SecurID products.
Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin, the defense contractor
that was the target of an attack on May 21, said last week the
breach was the result of the  data theft  at RSA and that it would
replace its security tokens.  Users trying to access their employer’s network from remote
locations may use a SecurID device, a memory stick-like unit
that generates random numbers that must be used in combination
with a personal identification number to gain entry.  FBI Investigation  In a  letter on its website , RSA said it is working with
customers to assess whether they should replace their tokens or
take other measures to boost security. RSA customers also
include financial-services providers and “virtually every
company that grants access to their systems by remote access,”
Stefan said.  Lockheed said May 28 that its computer network suffered a
“significant and tenacious” attack that was immediately detected
and stopped. No customer or program data was lost, it said.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  is leading an
investigation into the attack on Lockheed’s computer network,
Robert Butler, the deputy assistant secretary of defense for
cyber policy, said in a June 2 interview.  EMC fell 61 cents to $27.32 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Before today, the shares had climbed
19 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  