-- 
Temple-Inland Adopts Takeover Defense Following $3.31 Billion Hostile Bid

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-06-07T14:30:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/temple-inland-adopts-takeover-defense-following-3-31-billion-hostile-bid.html
Temple-Inland Inc. (TIN)  adopted a poison-
pill takeover defense after it rejected a hostile $3.31 billion
bid from  International Paper Co. (IP) , the world’s largest pulp-and-
paper maker.  Temple-Inland said its shareholders will get the right to
buy discounted stock should a person or group buy a stake of 10
percent or more, the Austin, Texas-based company said today in a
statement.  The plan is “designed to ensure that all of Temple-
Inland’s stockholders receive fair and equal treatment in the
event of any proposed takeover of the company,” Chief Executive
Officer Doyle R. Simons said in the statement.  Temple Inland rose $8.68, or 41 percent, to $29.69 as of
10:08 a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  International Paper yesterday offered $30.60 a share in
cash for Temple-Inland, a maker of corrugated packaging and
building materials. The deal would increase  Memphis , Tennessee-
based International Paper’s share of the North American
corrugated-packaging market to about 37 percent from about 27
percent, the company’s CEO Chief John Faraci said in an
interview yesterday. It would also enable cost cuts in
International Paper’s corrugated-packaging business, he said.  “The high synergy potential suggests that IP may be
willing to sweeten its offer,” Anthony Pettinari, an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in New York, said today in a report. He has a
“buy” rating on International Paper, whose stock ticker is IP,
and a “hold” rating on Temple-Inland. “We think competing
bidders are unlikely.”  Weyerhaeuser Deal  The takeover would be International Paper’s largest since
its August 2008 acquisition of Weyerhaeuser Co.’s corrugated-
packaging business for $6 billion.  The offer values Temple-Island about 9.8 times its last 12
months’ earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to Bloomberg data. That compares with
the median 7.1 times for 87 deals in the forest-product industry
in the past five years.  Evercore Partners Inc., UBS and law firm Debevoise &
Plimpton LLP are advising International Paper. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz are advising
Temple-Inland.  International Paper rose 62 cents, or 2.1 percent, to
$30.27 in New York.  In January, Norcross, Georgia-based Rock-Tenn Co. agreed to
buy Chicago-based Smurfit-Stone Container Corp. for $4.5 billion
to become  North America ’s second-biggest containerboard
producer, after International Paper.  The value of the offer for Temple-Inland was calculated
using the 108.3 million shares that were outstanding on April 2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 