-- 
Temple Inland Option Trader May Have Scored 267% Payday After Hostile Bid

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-07T20:29:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/temple-inland-option-trader-may-have-scored-267-payday-after-hostile-bid.html
A trader’s bullish bet on Temple-
Inland Inc. pushed volume in the paper producer’s options to a
three-month high on May 25, and now it’s paying off almost
threefold after  International Paper Co. (IP) ’s hostile takeover bid.  Volume for calls to buy Temple-Inland rose to 13,076
contracts that day, 26 times the four-week average and 654 times
the number of puts to sell. Almost all the volume was in a
spread by an investor who bought 6,425 January $25 calls while
selling the same number of January $30 calls to win a paper gain
of $1.54 million today, according to a  report  today from Ophir Gottlieb, managing director of client services at Livevol Inc.,
a San Francisco-based provider of options market analytics.  “Any time we see an unusually large directional trade that
immediately precedes a deal you have to wonder what drove the
customer to pull the trigger,” said  Henry Schwartz , president
of Trade Alert LLC, a New York-based provider of options-market
data and analytics. “It definitely worked out incredibly
well.”  Temple-Inland surged 40 percent to $29.49 at 4 p.m. in  New
York  for a record advance after International Paper, the world’s
largest pulp-and-paper maker, offered $30.60 a share to increase
its stake of the North American market for containerboard used
in shipping boxes. The buyer paid 90 cents per contract for the
spread, which is now worth about $3.30, Gottlieb wrote.  Chris Mathis, a spokesman for Austin, Texas-based Temple-
Inland, didn’t immediately return a call from Bloomberg for
comment. Thomas Ryan, a spokesman for  Memphis , Tennessee-based
International Paper, declined to comment.  John Nester , a
spokesman for the Securities and Exchange Commission, declined
to comment.  Takeover speculation has boosted Temple’s shares and
options in the past, including as long ago as May 2008. The Wall
Street Journal’s Heard on the Street column said that Temple was
a potential takeover target on Oct. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  