-- 
England Draws With Sri Lanka in Second Cricket Test, Leads the Series 1-0

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-06-07T18:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/england-builds-267-run-lead-against-sri-lanka-on-final-day-of-second-test.html
England drew the second cricket Test
against  Sri Lanka  today and leads the three-match series 1-0.  The hosts declared at 335-7 on the final afternoon at
Lord’s in London, setting Sri Lanka an unlikely victory target
of 343.  Alastair Cook  had scored 106. Sri Lanka ended on 127-3.  Kumar Sangakkara was out for 12 and Mahela Jayawardene got
25 as England tried to set up a second straight last-gasp
victory to follow the first Test at Cardiff.  Jonathan Trott  then
trapped Tharanga Paranavitana, top scorer with 44 runs, leg-
before-wicket to leave Sri Lanka at 96-3. England could make no
further breakthrough and the match was drawn shortly after 6 p.m.
local time. Thilan Samaraweera was on 17 and Prasanna
Jayawardene made 12.  “We needed something special to happen and it didn’t quite
happen for us,” England captain  Andrew Strauss  told the post-
match presentation. “The game died a bit of a death, which was
a shame.”  Sri Lanka captain Tillakaratne Dilshan, man of the match
after his first-innings 193, didn’t bat today after he sustained
a hairline fracture of his right thumb.  England had resumed on 149-2 and the only wicket lost
before lunch was that of  Kevin Pietersen . He eased concerns
about his form by totaling 72 runs before being bowled by
Rangana Herath.  In early afternoon, Cook, Eoin Morgan and Matt Prior were
dismissed in quick succession, and  Stuart Broad  was the last to
go. Ian Bell finished on 57 not out in 43 balls as  England 
declared with 58 overs remaining. Herath took 3-87.  Broken Window  Prior apologized to a woman spectator who suffered a cut
ankle from shattered glass after he accidentally broke a window
in the pavilion following his dismissal. He’d just been run out
for 4 in a mix-up with Bell.  “It was one of those unfortunate incidents,” Strauss said.
“It was entirely accidental. Matt Prior didn’t mean to break
the window. We know it was dangerous. He’s apologized and we
have apologized on behalf of the England team.”  The hosts had scored 486 all out in their first innings,
and Sri Lanka made 479.  England won a rain-shortened first Test in Cardiff by an
innings and 14 runs after bowling out Sri Lanka for 82 in its
second innings when a draw appeared most likely.  The teams are scheduled to play one more Test, starting
June 16 in Southampton, a Twenty20 match and five one-day
internationals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at  at
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  