-- 
Tennessee Athletic Director Quits Amid NCAA Football, Basketball Inquiry

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-06-07T15:58:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/tennessee-athletic-director-quits-amid-ncaa-football-basketball-inquiry.html
University of Tennessee Athletic
Director  Mike Hamilton  resigned four days before the school goes
before a National Collegiate Athletic Association committee to
answer claims that it violated more than a dozen rules.  The NCAA said a 22-month investigation found that former
basketball coach Bruce Pearl and former football coach Lane Kiffin committed recruiting violations and failed to promote an
atmosphere of compliance. Pearl was fired in March and Kiffin is
now coach at the University of  Southern California .  Hamilton, who has been Tennessee’s athletic director for
eight years, will leave the school at the end of the month. He
will receive $1.3 million over the next 36 months, according to
a  news release  on the school’s website. An interim athletic
director will be named by the end of the week and the school
said it hopes to have a replacement hired before the start of
the football season.  “We have poured out our lives over the last 19 years to
try to make this a better community, a better athletic program
and a better university,” Hamilton said in the statement. “We
will forever cherish our time here.”  It was the third case in eight days of a major college
athletic program dealing with accusations of rules violations.  Jim Tressel resigned as football coach at Ohio State on May
30 amid an investigation of athletes selling memorabilia for
cash, drugs and tattoos. Southern Cal was stripped yesterday of
the Bowl Championship Series title it won after the 2004 season
for what the NCAA said was a lack of institutional control
primarily involving former football player  Reggie Bush  and
former basketball player O.J. Mayo.  Pearl Case  Pearl was accused of unethical conduct because he allegedly
misled  NCAA  investigators about hosting high school juniors at a
cookout at his house in September 2008 and for calling John
Craft, the father of recruit Aaron Craft, to influence his
statement to NCAA investigators about the cookout.  Tennessee  reduced Pearl’s salary by $1.5 million over four
seasons in September 2010 and banned him from off-campus
recruiting for a year, with the  Southeastern Conference 
suspending him for eight conference games. Pearl was fired after
the Volunteers were eliminated in the first round of this year’s
NCAA tournament.  “The cumulative effect of the evolution of the
investigation, combined with a number of more recent non-NCAA-
related incidents, have led to a belief that this staff cannot
be viable at  Tennessee  in the future,” Hamilton said in a
statement March 21.  Assistant coaches were alleged to have participated in the
cookout cover-up and for making impermissible phone calls to 12
recruits between 2007 and 2009.  Kiffin and his assistants were accused of making improper
phone calls to recruits in 2010 after Tennessee officials warned
them not to make the calls. Kiffin and an intern also visited a
Florida high school in 2009, after the coach had been warned the
intern wasn’t allowed to make on-campus visits. Kiffin resigned
on Jan. 10, 2010, after one season at the Knoxville, Tennessee-
based university.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  