-- 
EPA Faults State Department Review of TransCanada Pipeline

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-06-07T21:59:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/epa-faults-state-department-review-of-transcanada-pipeline-1-.html
The U.S. State Department failed to
properly analyze potential environmental impacts of  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s planned pipeline to carry crude from Canada to the Gulf
Coast, according to the  Environmental Protection Agency .  The department’s review of the $7 billion project lacks
information the EPA needs to assess effects on groundwater or
air pollution, according to a letter sent to Jose Fernandez,
assistant secretary for economic, energy and business affairs.
The State Department is reviewing the project because it crosses
an international boundary.  Environmental groups and some Democrats oppose the planned
700,000-barrel-a-day  pipeline , which would carry crude from
Canada’s oil sands across  Montana ,  South Dakota ,  Nebraska ,
 Oklahoma  and  Texas  to U.S. refineries. The department has said a
decision will be issued by the end of this year.  “We have a number of concerns regarding the potential
environmental impacts of the proposed project, as well as the
level of analysis and information provided concerning those
impacts,” according to the letter from Cynthia Giles, assistant
EPA administrator for enforcement. “Our concerns include the
potential impacts to groundwater resources from spills, as well
as effects on emission levels at refineries in the  Gulf Coast .”  TransCanada defended the State Department, which conducted
a thorough review in the past three years, Terry Cunha, a
company spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  “We thoroughly disagree with what the EPA is saying,”
Cunha said. Additional tests are unnecessary, he said.  More Study Needed  The EPA raised concerns last year about the project after
the State Department released a preliminary environmental
review. The agency said more work was needed on potential
greenhouse-gas emissions from the project, pipeline safety and
impacts on wetlands and migratory birds.  “The State Department clearly isn’t qualified to be in
charge of the safety of such a big tar sludge pipeline
project,” Jeremy Symons, senior vice president of the National
Wildlife Federation in Reston,  Virginia , said in an interview.  The pipeline would cross an aquifer providing 78 percent of
Nebraska’s drinking water. Senator  Ben Nelson , a Nebraska
Democrat, has pressed for a detailed study of the environmental
issues, citing the potential for a leak that would endanger his
state’s drinking water.  Diluting Chemicals  In its review, the State Department said chemicals used to
help the heavier crude from Canada’s tar sands flow through the
line “may vary between shippers and is considered proprietary
information.” As a result, the EPA said it couldn’t determine
the potential impacts to groundwater in the event of a spill.  “We believe an analysis of potential diluents is important
to establish the potential health and environmental impacts of
any spilled oil,” according to the EPA’s letter.  The agency cited a leak at an Enbridge Energy Partners LP
pipeline in southern  Michigan  last year that spilled volatile
benzene, added to speed the heavy crude through the line, into
the soil. High benzene levels near the accident site prompted an
evacuation.  About 20,082 barrels, (843,444 gallons) of crude spilled
from the pipeline near Marshall, Michigan, in July. About 8,033
barrels reached Talmadge Creek, which flows into the Kalamazoo
River, Enbridge said.  Last week, the U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
Administration issued a corrective-action order to TransCanada
after an existing 591,000-barrel-a-day pipeline leaked in May at
pumping stations in  North Dakota  and  Kansas . TransCanada of
Calgary,  Canada ’s biggest pipeline operator, restarted the line
on June 5 after the regulator approved the company’s plans,
TransCanada said in a statement.  ‘We Don’t Know’  “There’s a lot we don’t know,” Carl Weimer, executive
director of  Pipeline Safety Trust , a Bellingham, Washington-
based group that promotes fuel transportation safety, said on a
conference call with reporters. “You can’t really plan for the
safety of the pipeline.”  The proposed route is within one mile of 1,194 water wells
in Nebraska, according to  Bold Nebraska , a group based in
Lincoln, whose goal is to “restore political balance,”
according to its website. Many are irrigation wells that would
quickly spread contaminants to crops in the event of a spill,
the group said.  “TransCanada didn’t build the first pipeline right, and
the safety concerns this raises are too grave to allow approval
of a second, more dangerous pipeline that will have the
potential to leak even more oil into our soil and water,” the
group said in a letter to the State Department.  The  American Petroleum Institute , the Washington-based
association that represents more than 470 oil and natural gas
companies, yesterday urged approval of the pipeline. The project
will add 20,000 U.S. jobs and lower dependence on oil from the
 Middle East , said Marty Durbin, an API executive vice president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  