-- 
Erdogan Taps Building Boom With Housing Lottery as Turkish Cities Reshaped

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-06-08T14:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/erdogan-taps-building-boom-with-housing-lottery.html
Osman Akin borrowed 3,000 liras
($1,910) from his wife’s sister and prayed until morning before
squeezing into an Istanbul sports hall with others hoping to buy
one of 110  new homes .  Numbered balls in four lottery machines allocate apartments
built by Turkey’s Housing Development Administration, or Toki,
among 2,000 low-income applicants. Since Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  revitalized the agency in 2003, it has built half
a million homes, 700 schools, 100 hospitals, and a 52,000-seat
stadium for one-time European soccer champion  Galatasaray . The
premier’s campaign speeches for June 12 elections seldom fail to
mention plans for another half a million homes.  Opposition parties say Toki is a financial black box that
masks the distribution of government cash to Erdogan supporters
in the  construction industry . The premier says that by turning
Turkey into “a great construction site” he has helped hundreds
of thousands of families make the leap to home ownership. That
upward mobility has knock-on effects throughout Turkey’s $740
billion economy, whose record growth rates -- 8.9 percent last
year -- are central to Erdogan’s bid for a third term.  “There’s clearly something red-hot happening in Turkish
growth and the creation of new households is central to it,”
said Tim Ash, head of emerging-market research at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. “The success the government has had in
building new homes has major macro consequences. It’s what’s
driving the domestic boom because every new household needs
white goods to put in it and a car to drive to it.”  ‘Solid Families’  Turkey’s population grows by about 1 million a year, and is
steadily migrating into cities and dividing into  smaller family
units . Toki is the biggest player in a building industry meeting
that demand. Construction surged 17 percent last year, helped by
low borrowing costs: the central bank has held the benchmark
interest rate at a record low of 6.25 percent since January.  Shares in Toki’s property development unit have been among
Turkey’s best performers.  Emlak Konut Gayrimenkul Yatirim
Ortakligi AS (EKGYO)  has jumped 78 percent since it started trading Dec.
1 after an initial public offering. That’s the biggest gain
among stocks included in the ISE 30 index of Turkey’s biggest
companies, which fell 6 percent in the same period.  On the campaign trail, Erdogan -- set to keep his majority
in parliament, according to opinion polls -- tells crowds in
each province how many homes Toki has built there, and how many
more are planned. In Cankiri in central Turkey on June 6, he
promises 50-square-meter (540 square feet) apartments for young
married couples. About half of Turks are aged under 26.  “As conservatives, our goal is to strengthen the family,”
Erdogan said in Ankara today, announcing the establishment of a
new Ministry of Family and Social Policies.  State Bank Credit  Toki takes government land at little or no cost, and
auctions development rights to private constructors who must
share the revenue from sales and rent-to-buy payments.  Winners of the Istanbul lottery must pay about 400 liras
($254) a month over 15 years to become outright owners of homes
in the 10-storey blocks in Istanbul’s Hadimkoy suburb. They can
get low-interest loans from state lender TC Ziraat Bankasi AS to
meet the 10,000 lira down payment. Akin, who has three children,
says he’s already paying 450 liras a month for an apartment he’s
being evicted from.  Critics say Toki, which reports directly to Erdogan, allows
the premier to play politics with public money. It “creates
rent from valuable state land and transfers this rent to pre-
selected companies,” said  Aykut Erdogdu , a former Treasury
official and now a parliamentary candidate for the opposition
 Republican People’s Party  in Istanbul.  ‘Political Vehicle’  “Any Toki opening ceremony is always carried out by the
prime minister, which turns it into a political vehicle,”
Erdogdu said in e-mailed comments. The government hasn’t fully
answered parliamentary questions on Toki’s finances, which makes
it “impossible to make a full assessment of how serious the
financial position is.”  Toki had debt of about 5.3 billion liras in 2009, or about
26 percent of assets, according to its  website . The authority
said more recent information isn’t available to the public.  The housing agency is “blameless” and its critics should
produce evidence, Erdogan said at a May 29 rally in Ankara.
Finances are healthy and the tender process is “entirely
transparent” Mehmet Ali Kahraman, Toki’s head of strategic
planning, said in an interview at its headquarters in Ankara.  Borrowing Abroad  Toki may consider borrowing internationally, and obtained
credit ratings in 2008 as it sought alternative source of
finances amid a drop in repayment rates, Kahraman said. Moody’s
Investors Service rates Toki Ba2, two steps below investment
grade in line with  Turkey ’s national rating.  “The level of ongoing support from the government is
extremely high,” even if Toki’s debt isn’t guaranteed by the
state, Moody’s analyst Gianfilippo Carboni said in a telephone
interview. Growth over the past five years makes it “crystal
clear that it has been the prime minister’s target to extend the
operation of this agency.”  Erdogan isn’t the first Turkish leader to offer cheaper
housing. His overhaul of Toki in 2003 involved giving it real
estate previously owned by Turkiye Emlak Bankasi AS, a state-run
housing bank that was liquidated in 2001 after contributing to
as much as $17.5 billion of losses by government lenders.  Nor is Toki the only beneficiary of the housing boom. The
 ISE REITs index (XGMYO)  of real estate developers is up 21 percent this
year.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , a bank co-owned by  Spain ’s
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, has seen home loans surge
fivefold in the five years through 2010, to 7.86 billion liras.  Winners, Losers  At the lottery draw, Akin’s number doesn’t come up. He’ll
be able to reclaim his deposit from the organizers.  Sara Banu Aydogdu, though, shouts out as her number is
drawn and immediately calls her husband, who earns about 1,500
liras a month at a bread factory. She can’t stop smiling as
others in the crowd walk by and congratulate her.  “I’ve wanted to be a homeowner for a long time,” says
Aydogdu, 39 with two children, echoing the words in Toki’s
promotional videos. “I never thought I’d own a house.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
 Benjamin Harvey  in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 