-- 
White House Sets Stage for Female Leadership at State Dinner

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-06-07T20:05:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/merkel-lends-white-house-stage-for-female-leadership-silverware.html
First lady  Michelle Obama  delivered a
modern message today about the importance of women in diplomacy
to invited high school girls against a traditional backdrop: a
preview of the arrangements for tonight’s state dinner honoring
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  Obama told about 30 high school girls from the Washington
area that Merkel’s life story, from growing up in communist East
Germany with limited opportunities to becoming the first woman
to lead Germany, “reminds us of the opportunity that women have
to lead our governments and strengthen our world.”  “No matter where you come from, what you look like, or how
much money your family may have, you can have a real impact on
the world,” she said in the State Dining Room of the White
House during a pre-dinner preview for the media, which included
the unveiling of the table settings, food and entertainment for
the administration’s fourth state dinner.  The students came from  Benjamin Banneker High School  in
Washington,  Thomas S. Wootton High School  in the suburb of
Rockville,  Maryland , the  Girl Scouts  and  Girls Inc.,  a nonprofit
group promoting female empowerment.  Women in Leadership  This afternoon’s event, held hours before the state dinner,
was designed to teach the students “about women’s leadership
and diplomacy, which is uniquely relevant to the day’s honored
guest,” the first lady’s chief of staff, Tina Tchen, said in an
e-mail.  Obama, 47, was joined by National Security Staff Chief of
Staff Brooke Anderson, who told the girls that the dinner -- the
first official visit and state dinner for a European leader
during Obama’s presidency -- is an “opportunity to get
important business done” behind carefully choreographed events.  The students got to sample the evening’s dessert as they
sat at three round tables with the same place settings as
tonight’s dinner. According to the White House, the inspiration
for the décor, which featured shades of mostly white, gray and
apple green, came from the German Bauhaus school of design.  The dinner will be served on china used during President
 George W. Bush ’s administration and the tabletops will be
ornamented with floating candles, white silver-rimmed votives
and floral arrangements of yellow calla lilies, yellow oncidium
orchids and green viburnum.  Rose Garden Dinner  Dinner will be served in the Rose Garden and will feature a
menu including vegetables and herbs grown in the first lady’s
garden on the executive mansion’s South Lawn. White House
executive chef Cris Comerford and White House executive pastry
chef William Yosses designed the menu.  The evening’s first course is a garden chopped salad tossed
in honey vinaigrette, using honey harvested on White House
grounds and apple cider vinegar, and spiced Mammoth pecans from
 Georgia . Guests will then be served tuna tartare, from  Hawaii ,
served with rye crisps, pickled young carrots and mustard oil, a
spring pea salad, and shaved ham and ginger snaps. The main
course is a petite filet with Maryland crab ravioli served on a
bed of wild ramp puree from  West Virginia .  The dessert is German: apple strudel served with schlag, an
unsweetened whipped cream.  The guests, whose names have not yet been released, will be
entertained by the  National Symphony Orchestra  and singer and
songwriter James Taylor.  Policy and Pageantry  The more serious issues that were part of today’s meeting
between Merkel and President  Barack Obama  should be separated
from the pageantry of the evening’s state dinner, said Wendy Schiller, a political science professor at  Brown University  in
Providence,  Rhode Island .  Young boys should also be invited “to learn about why it’s
so important that a woman is running  Germany ,” Schiller said.
“That’s what this lesson should be about, not where the fork
and spoon go.”  Anita McBride, who served in the  Bush administration  as an
assistant to the president and chief of staff to first lady
Laura Bush, said the event is a natural extension of Obama’s
work with young women. She called it a “brilliant idea.”  “You cannot overstate the importance of using social
entertaining in diplomacy,” McBride said. “The first lady is
hosting this, and she is sharing with these young women a
portion of the role that she’s playing in the state visit.”  The Obamas have held three state dinners: the first
honoring Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in November 2009,
notable for its party-crashers; the second in May 2010 honoring
Mexican President Felipe Calderon; and the third in January for
Chinese President  Hu Jintao .  The first lady worked as a lawyer before her husband won
the White House, Schiller said, and now is playing a traditional
role: “It’s very old-fashioned, it’s very Jackie O,” she said,
referring to President  John F. Kennedy ’s wife, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  