-- 
Terrelle Pryor Will Leave Ohio State, May Seek NFL Supplemental Draft Spot

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-06-08T13:32:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/terrelle-pryor-will-leave-ohio-state-may-seek-nfl-supplemental-draft-spot.html
Terrelle Pryor called an end to his
scandal-tainted  Ohio State University  football career to take a
shot at the  National Football League .  The quarterback will skip his senior year to enter the
NFL’s supplemental draft, which  ESPN reported June 1  will be
held next month if there are any applicants.  Pryor was one of five Ohio State football players suspended
in December for five games next season for selling team
memorabilia to a Columbus, Ohio, tattoo parlor owner. The
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  and Ohio State are also
investigating whether Pryor received cars and other benefits in
violation of NCAA rules, the Columbus Dispatch reported May 29.  “In the best interests of my teammates, I have made the
decision to forgo my senior year of football at the  Ohio State
University ,” Pryor said in a statement read over the telephone
yesterday by his lawyer, Larry James, of  Crabbe, Browne & James
LLP  in Columbus.  Pryor’s decision comes a week after Buckeyes coach Jim Tressel resigned after failing to tell the school what he knew
about the players’ actions.  Pryor compiled a 31-4 record as a starter while leading
Ohio State to three Big Ten Conference titles and wins in the
Sugar Bowl and  Rose Bowl . In three seasons for the Buckeyes, he
completed 477 passes for 6,177 yards and 57 touchdowns. He threw
26 interceptions and was sacked 62 times.  Pryor is “going to reflect on his future and take a couple
of days to get his head together,” James said.  Sugar Bowl Win  Pryor’s last appearance for Ohio State came in the 31-26
win against the  University of Arkansas  in the Jan. 4 Sugar Bowl.  Last season, the Buckeyes went 12-1. They won their sixth
straight Big Ten conference title and 35th overall and beat
rival Michigan 37-7, giving Tressel a 9-1 record against the
Wolverines.  Tressel resigned May 30, about four weeks after the NCAA
said he withheld information about the players’ violations for
more than nine months.  The NCAA said that between November 2008 and May 2010,
Pryor and other Buckeye players sold merchandise including 2008
Big Ten conference championship rings, a 2008 national
championship game jersey and a 2010 Rose Bowl watch to Edward
Rife, the owner of a tattoo parlor in Columbus.  Rife on May 27 was charged with drug trafficking and  money
laundering , and agreed to plead guilty and cooperate with
authorities, according to the  Associated Press .  Tressel, who in 2002 coached Ohio State to its first
national title in 34 years, was previously suspended by the
school for the first five games of the 2011 season and fined
$250,000. He will be replaced for the 2011-12 season by
Assistant Head Coach and Co-Defensive Coordinator Luke Fickell,
then the university will search for a new coach.  On May 26, former Buckeyes wide receiver Ray Small told the
school’s newspaper that he sold championship rings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 