-- 
Hershey Said to Consider Ex-Cadbury CEO Stitzer for Board

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   D u a n e   S t a n f o r d   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-06-08T20:11:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/hershey-said-to-be-considering-ex-cadbury-ceo-todd-stitzer-for-board-seat.html
Hershey Co. (HSY) , the maker of Kisses and
Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups, has held talks with former Cadbury
Plc Chief Executive Officer Todd Stitzer about taking a seat on
the board, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Interim chief John Bilbrey is the frontrunner for the CEO
position, though Stitzer also is being considered for the role,
said three people, who declined to be identified because the
matter is private. Hershey plans to name a permanent head before
the end of June, the people said. The board and the executive
committee handling the CEO search have meetings scheduled next
week, one person said.  “Getting an individual like Stitzer at the helm could be a
plus, given his extensive experience at Cadbury,” said Erin
Lash, an analyst with Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago . The
executive’s experience may be particularly useful as Hershey
expands beyond the U.S., which accounts for the bulk of its
sales, she said.  Chairman James Nevels first spoke with Stitzer about
joining Hershey’s board several months ago, one of the people
said. One possibility would be for Stitzer to join the Hershey
board and mentor Bilbrey, said the person. Bilbrey, who has been
at the Pennsylvania-based company for eight years, stepped in
after David West left last month to head Del Monte Foods Co.  “The board is committed to conducting an effective,
expeditious and confidential search, the result of which will be
shared in due course,” Hershey’s board said in an e-mailed
statement. “It is not working within a specific timeframe.”  Cadbury Time  Hershey’s effort to lure Stitzer has continued in recent
weeks, said the people. The executive, who spent almost three
decades at Cadbury, left in 2010 after  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  bought
the company for more than $20 billion. Stitzer previously talked
with Hershey about a possible acquisition of Cadbury as a way to
fend off Kraft, people said at the time.  Since leaving Cadbury, Stitzer, 59, has taken a role on the
advisory board of Hamlin Capital Management LLC, a  New York- 
based investment advisory firm catering to high net-worth
individuals and institutions, according to its website. At
Cadbury, he oversaw more than 40 transactions, including the
$4.2 billion purchase of chewing-gum maker Adams Inc. in 2003.  Stitzer didn’t return messages left at Hamlin Capital. Kirk Saville, a Hershey spokesman, declined to comment.  The new chief will oversee Hershey’s push into  developing
countries  such as  China , part of efforts to fuel growth beyond
its U.S. home turf. Bilbrey, promoted to Hershey operations
chief last year, was elevated to interim CEO upon West’s exit,
and directors said they would act quickly to name a permanent
successor.  Bilbrey  “We’re pleased that J.P. has accepted this position,”
Nevels said then. “The board has seen firsthand his leadership
and expertise and unanimously made this appointment.”  Hershey shares rose 45 cents to $54.61 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. They have gained 16
percent this year.  Bilbrey, 54, helped establish Hershey brands outside the
U.S. in various international roles before working on a
turnaround of the company’s North American operations starting
in 2007. He also spent 22 years at Procter & Gamble Co.  Finding the right person for the CEO job may be difficult
since Hershey is controlled by an outside trust, said
Morningstar’s Lash. The Hershey Trust has 80 percent of the
company’s voting power and appoints the majority of its
directors.  Members of the trust clashed with West last year when he
resisted their entreaties to counter Kraft’s bid for Cadbury,
people familiar with the matter said at the time. Under West,
Hershey generated a 7 percent sales gain in 2010. Annual per-
share net income may triple this year from his first year on the
job, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Hershey has been making strides -- generating
accelerating sales growth and margin improvement,” Lash said.
“Any disruptions that may result from this management
transition could be a road bump.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Duane Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  