-- 
EU May Add to Proposed $220 Million Aid for Farmers After E. coli Outbreak

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-07T17:13:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/eu-may-add-to-proposed-220-million-aid-for-farmers-after-e-coli-outbreak.html
The European Commission may make an
“improved proposal” for aid to vegetable growers faced with
slumping demand following a deadly outbreak of E. coli in
 Germany  after some member states balked at an initial offer of
150 million euros ($220 million).  The commission, the European Union’s regulatory arm, may
set out the revised proposal as early as tomorrow following
objections to the level and total amount of support, EU
Agriculture Commissioner Dacian Ciolos said at a news
conference in Luxembourg today. The commission may look again at
“the rate of indemnization and the total available envelope,”
he said.  EU agriculture ministers were meeting in Luxembourg today
to discuss their response to the outbreak, which has killed 23
people and sickened 2,429. As much as 80 percent of vegetables
are being destroyed in parts of the EU because there’s no
market, Brussels-based farm lobby group Copa-Cogeca said in a
report. EU food producers are losing as much as 400 million
euros a week from the drop in demand caused by the outbreak, the
group said later in a statement.  The EU would offer to pay farmers 30 percent of the average
price in June for the past four years for cucumbers, tomatoes
and salads that are going unsold because of the crisis, European
Commission spokesman Roger Waite had said earlier today.  “We’ll be offering to buy, or pay for the withdrawal, of
products that can’t be sold,” Waite said.  Additional Aid  French Agriculture Minister Bruno Le Maire said the amount
proposed by the EU was “a first gesture.”  “I think the crisis will continue and we’ll need
additional aid,” Le Maire said during a news conference in
Luxembourg before Ciolos made his comments. “The 150 million
euros are an emergency measure, a welcome measure. Unfortunately
the crisis continues, and French growers are losing money day
after day.”  Members of producer organizations will receive additional
compensation for withdrawn products, Waite said. He said on
average 35 percent of EU vegetable growers are members of a
producer organization, ranging from fully organized in the
Netherlands to 0.4 percent membership in  Romania .  “The problem is the roughly two-thirds of European fruit
and vegetable growers who are not organized,” Waite said.
“ Food security  is back on the agenda, it’s important to keep
our farmers afloat.”  Brussels Meeting  Average EU prices for cucumbers in June from 2007 to 2010
were 479 euros a metric ton, according to Waite. The price for
tomatoes was 647 euros a ton, while lettuce prices in June
averaged 731 euros a ton in the past four years, he said.  The measure will apply until the end of June and be
retroactive to May 26, Waite said. EU agriculture ministers will
probably vote on the proposal at a meeting in Brussels on June
14, the commission spokesman said.  Spanish fruit and vegetable producers are losing 225
million euros a week because of the outbreak as demand falls and
prices slump, said Jose Maria Pozancos, director general of
trade group  FEPEX .  In  Spain , the producer organization is paying 18 cents a
kilogram (2.2 pounds) of cucumbers that are withdrawn from the
market to its members, and the EU payments would be on top of
that, Waite said. About 32 percent of vegetable growers in the
country are members of a producer organization, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  