-- 
EU Says U.K. Government Faces Challenge on Spending-Cut Program

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-07T14:22:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/eu-says-u-k-government-faces-challenge-on-spending-cut-program.html
The European Commission said the U.K.
government faces a “challenge” to implement its planned budget
squeeze and some of its growth forecasts are too optimistic.  “Implementing the proposed fiscal consolidation remains a
major challenge,” the Brussels-based commission, the European
Union’s executive arm, said in a  report  today. “Ensuring no
slippage from published spending plans will be vital to re-
establishing a sustainable fiscal position.”  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
yesterday he will stick to his austerity plan after a group of
52 economists claimed the cuts are damaging growth and
increasing the deficit by reducing tax income and increasing
welfare costs. The  International Monetary Fund  said he should
stick to the program as the current weakness in the British
economy is “temporary.”  The commission said Osborne’s program sets out “ambitious
measures” to reduce the deficit and it “encourages the
government to proceed as planned.”  Still, “the council is of the opinion that the
macroeconomic scenario underpinning the budgetary projections is
plausible except for 2012 when it is slightly too favourable.”  The  Office for Budget Responsibility , the U.K. government’s
fiscal watchdog, forecasts that economic growth will accelerate
to 2.5 percent in 2012 after a 1.7 percent gain this year.  “The short-term outlook is for moderate growth driven by
strong corporate investment and an exchange-rate driven rebound
in net exports,” the commission said. “However, growth will be
held back by weak or negative growth in household and government
consumption.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  