-- 
European Stock Futures Little Changed; ING, Commerzbank May Move

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-06-07T06:36:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/european-stock-futures-little-changed-stocks-of-ing-commerzbank-may-move.html
European stock-index futures were
little changed, indicating that the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600
Index will trade close to a 10-week low. U.S. futures rose and
Asian shares swung between gains and losses.  ING Groep NV (INGA)  may move amid speculation on a takeover of the
Dutch bank’s U.S. unit.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  may slide after Focus
Money reported that the lender would need further capital in a
“tightened”  stress test . Royal Ahold NV may gain after
reporting first-quarter net income that beat analyst estimates.  Futures on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index expiring in June dropped
0.1 percent to 2,761 at 7:34 a.m. in  London . Futures on the FTSE
100 Index expiring the same month lost 0.1 percent to 5,860. The
benchmark Stoxx 600 retreated to a 10-week low yesterday amid
mounting concern that the global economy is weakening. Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index futures gained 0.4 percent, while the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index rose less than 0.1 percent today.  “There’s still little cheer to be found in equity markets
as ongoing concern over the global economic outlook takes its
toll, combined with the suggestions that once again the ‘sell in
May, go away’ adage may yet again be holding true,” said
Cameron Peacock, a market analyst at IG Markets in  Melbourne .
“It’s difficult to see where any meaningful support will emerge
from.”  Jean-Claude Trichet   European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
yesterday gave his first signal endorsing measures to encourage
investors to buy new Greek bonds to replace maturing securities
as officials seek to stem the nation’s debt crisis.  ECB policy makers have opposed any measure that could be
classed as a default to avoid what European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said yesterday would be
a “Lehman Brothers catastrophe.”  Greece  unveiled the first step in a privatization program
that aims to raise 50 billion euros ($73 billion) from state
asset and real-estate sales by the end of 2015. Prime Minister
 George Papandreou ’s government will sell a 10 percent stake in
 Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO)  to Deutsche Telekom
AG for about 400 million euros.  A report today may show European retail sales rebounded in
April after tumbling by the most in almost a year in March.
Sales in the 17-nation euro area increased by 0.3 percent after
a revised 0.9 percent drop the previous month, according to the
median of 22 estimates. Year-on-year sales were unchanged,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  U.K. Retail Sales  U.K. retail sales fell in May as consumers’ uncertainty
about their jobs and incomes increased, the  British Retail
Consortium  said. Sales at stores open at least 12 months,
measured by value, fell 2.1 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a 5.2 percent increase in April, the BRC said.  ING may be active as people with direct knowledge of the
matter said that General Electric Co. and Capital One Financial
Corp. submitted bids for the lender’s U.S. online bank last week
in a sale that may raise about $9 billion.  Commerzbank may drop as a study by German magazine Focus
Money and analysts at  Switzerland ’s Independent Credit View
showed that  Germany ’s biggest bank will need 11.6 billion euros
of capital in a stress test that supposed a “significant”
gross domestic product decline, a surge in loan defaults and
risk-weighted assets and a complete halt to credit market
refinancing, Focus reported, without providing more details.  Aviva Plc (AV/)  may be active as the insurance company was put on
notice by one of its biggest investors that it should examine
the performance of Chief Executive Officer Andrew Moss, the
London-based Times reported.  Ahold, PPR, Clariant  Ahold may climb after the Dutch owner of Stop & Shop
supermarkets in the U.S. said it had first-quarter net income of
291 million euros. That beat the average estimate for 279
million euros of profit in a Bloomberg survey of 12 analysts.  French luxury-goods company PPR SA is planning a large
acquisition in the high-fashion business, La Tribune reported
without saying where it got the information. Prada SpA may be
one of  PPR (PP) ’s main targets, the newspaper said.  Clariant AG (CLN)  may rise after the Swiss producer of emulsions
and pigments raised its 2011 sales and margin forecasts.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA may be active as the utility agreed to sell its
natural-gas distribution network in  Italy  to Axa Private
Equity’s Infrastructure fund and F2i SGR SpA in a transaction
valuing the unit at 772 million euros.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s third-largest bank, may be
active after Nomura Holdings Inc. raised its recommendation on
the stock to “buy” from “neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  