-- 
Coal Rises on Speculation Demand May Build as Reservoirs Fall

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-06-07T10:57:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/european-coal-rises-in-london-up-for-a-second-straight-session.html
European coal derivatives rose on
speculation demand may strengthen in the region as countries cut
nuclear output and reservoir levels fall.  “The drivers in Europe are the nuclear shutdowns and low
hydro levels,” Karim Kanji, director of coal trading at
 Barclays Capital  in  London , said by phone today. Prices are also
gaining on a shortage of coal in China to meet summer demand, he
said. The country is the world’s biggest coal user.  Coal delivered to northwest Europe with settlement next
year rose 75 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $130.75 a metric ton by
11:17 a.m. in London. That would be the highest closing price
since May 4.  French water reservoirs were 59 percent full at the start
of this week, Electricite de  France  SA said today. That’s down
12 percentage points from last year. Lower reservoir levels cut
the amount of power that can be generated by water, possibly
boosting use of other fuels.  The German Cabinet approved plans yesterday to close the
country’s reactors by 2022, accelerating the nuclear exit of
 Europe ’s biggest economy.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  ordered the
halt of  Germany ’s seven oldest reactors in the second half of
March following a meltdown that month at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant after an earthquake and tsunami.  Norwegian Reservoirs  Nuclear power accounted for about 23 of German generation
last year, while France gets about 20 percent of its supply from
running water through turbines. Reservoirs in Norway, where
hydropower plays a bigger role in the energy mix than any other
European country, were 37.9 percent full in the week to the end
of May, according to  data  from the Nord Pool Spot AS exchange.
That compares with a 44.7 percent median since 2009.  China  faces a power shortfall that may extend to 40
gigawatts this summer, surpassing the country’s 2004 record,
according to State Grid Corp. of China. A gigawatt is enough to
supply 1 million U.S. households on average. China boosted coal
imports 64 percent in the two months through April.  China is studying a plan to cut the 17 percent value-added
tax levied on coal imports, National Business Daily reported
today, citing an unidentified official at the National
Development and Reform Commission.  Profit from running coal-fired  power plants  for next month,
the so-called clean-dark spread, is about 7.12 euros ($10.45) a
megawatt-hour, compared with 3.19 euros from burning natural
gas, Bloomberg data showed. The calculation uses electricity
prices in Germany and takes emission costs into account.  December carbon-dioxide permits under the European Union
cap-and-trade system fell 0.2 percent to 16.65 euros. Gas for
delivery in the six months through September 2012 to the U.K.,
Europe’s biggest consumer of the fuel, rose 0.3 percent to 65.9
pence ($1.08) a therm in London.  The coal-derivative data are drawn from information
supplied by ICAP Plc,  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) , Spectron Group Ltd.,
Credit Suisse Group AG, IHS McCloskey, Bloomberg, Tradition
Financial Services and Tullett Prebon Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  