-- 
Euro Reaches Month High Versus Dollar as Greek Concerns Ease; Rand Rallies

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-07T19:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/euro-trades-near-1-month-high-after-trichet-endorses-greek-bond-rollover.html
The euro appreciated against the
majority of its most-traded peers as the  European Central Bank 
signaled its approval of Greek bond rollovers and equities
advanced for the first time in a week.  The single currency reached a one-month high versus the
dollar and the yen. The Dollar Index slid to the lowest in more
than a month before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
speaks on the economy.  South Africa ’s rand gained against the
dollar as reserves data suggested the government is doing less
to mute the currency’s strength.  “The general risk appetite of the market is firming and it
looks as if peripheral concerns are abating, both of which are
supportive of the euro,” said  Mark McCormick , a New York-based
currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. “Economic
fundamentals right now show no reason to be long dollars.” A
long position is a bet that an assets will increase in value.  The euro advanced 0.8 percent to $1.4693 at 2:56 p.m. in
New York and reached $1.4697, the highest level since May 5. The
single currency climbed 0.8 percent to 117.70 yen. It touched
117.90, the strongest in a month. The Japanese currency was
little changed at 80.11 per dollar.  Dollar Down  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which
measures the greenback against the currencies of six trading
partners, fell 0.6 percent to 73.526, after touching the lowest
since May 5.  Bernanke is scheduled to speak at 3:45 p.m. Eastern time to
bankers in Atlanta.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent, snapping
four consecutive days of losses. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index also
gained 0.5 percent.  South Africa’s rand was the best performer against the
dollar, rising 1.3 percent to 6.7060, after reports showed the
central bank’s foreign currency and gold reserves fell. The rand
has gained 16 percent against the dollar in the past year.  “The numbers suggest that after a period of aggressive
intervention, the authorities are doing less to combat rand
strength,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency
strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote to
clients. “The bottom line is that the authorities can’t do much
about the currency, even if they wanted to.”  Franc Prices  The Swiss franc weakened against all 16 of its most-traded
counterparts as data showed consumer prices were steady last
month, damping speculation that the nation’s central bank will
raise borrowing costs.  Consumer-price inflation in May was unchanged from a month
earlier, the Federal Statistics Office in Neuchatel said today.
Prices rose 0.4 percent from a year earlier. Economists’ median
estimate was for a monthly decline of 0.1 percent.  The franc weakened 0.4 percent to 83.75 centimes from 83.46
yesterday.  The yen fell against 13 of 16 most-traded counterparts
after being the top performer yesterday and touching a one-month
high against the dollar.  Japan ’s Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said in  Tokyo  today
he’s monitoring the yen’s appreciation while conceding that the
market’s view on the  U.S. economy  was likely behind its moves.
It was the first time in a month Noda announced he’s watching
the markets, a comment that Japanese officials have made in the
past as a preliminary signal they may intervene in the  currency
market .  Intervention Reading  “If Japanese stocks suddenly collapse the possibility of
joint intervention will be increased but the current comment
from the Finance Minister seems to be just a bluff,” said
Mamoru Arai, a senior currency trader at Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. in New York. “We have lots of Japanese customers put in
buy orders under 80, so the market does not want to try the
downside now.”  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet yesterday gave his first
signal that he endorses encouraging investors to buy new Greek
bonds to replace maturing securities, potentially making the
debt situation more sustainable.  A debt rollover is being considered as an alternative means
of easing  Greece ’s funding squeeze, two officials familiar with
the matter said last week on condition of anonymity. Investors
may be given preferred status, higher coupon payments or
collateral as incentives to roll over the holdings when they
mature, two separate officials, who declined to be identified
because the talks are in progress, said last week.  The euro has strengthened 1.2 percent in the past week,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
underpinned by signs of recovery in  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  