-- 
Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Tzolov Ends Up With Four-Year Sentence

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-06-07T18:43:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/ex-credit-suisse-broker-tzolov-given-five-year-term-for-securities-fraud.html
Julian Tzolov , a former  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  broker who fled prosecution before pleading guilty to
 securities fraud , was sentenced to four years in prison after
initially getting a five-year term earlier in the day.  Tzolov, 38, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge  Jack B. Weinstein  in Brooklyn,  New York . He was accused of
fraudulently selling securities that cost corporate clients more
than $1.1 billion. Before sentence was passed, Tzolov said he
regretted his decision to run away.  “I have been going to bed at night and waking up every
morning not being able to forgive myself, how I could let fear
cloud my judgment and let down people who have been treating me
honestly and professionally,” Tzolov told the judge. “I made
the most colossal mistake of my life.”  The judge cut the original five-year term after
recalculating the penalty for bail jumping, according to
Benjamin Brafman, a lawyer for Tzolov, and  Robert Nardoza , a
spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office.  Tzolov, a native of  Bulgaria , was returned to New York from
 Spain  in July 2009 after fleeing for three months. Tzolov
pleaded guilty when he returned to the U.S. and has been in
custody since. He testified as a prosecution witness against
Eric Butler, his former partner. The jury found Butler guilty in
August 2009. Weinstein sentenced Butler, 39, in January 2010 to
five years in prison. Butler is free on bail while he appeals
his conviction.  Weinstein sentenced Tzolov to 2 1/2 years for securities
fraud, two conspiracy counts and seven wire-fraud counts. He
added another 1 1/2 years, to run consecutively, for bail
jumping. He granted probation for a count of immigration fraud.  ‘Clearly Disappointed’  “I understand the sentence,” Brafman said after the
initial hearing. “I’m clearly disappointed but we’ll deal with
it.” Brafman had asked Weinstein to sentence his client to time
served. He told Weinstein that his client has essentially been
in isolation for two years because he has no family in the U.S.  Tzolov, wearing a blue prison uniform, broke down in tears
while discussing his 89-year-old father who is ill and “is in
the last stage of his life.”  In pleading guilty, Tzolov said he and Butler intentionally
misled clients about securities purchased on their behalf,
falsely claiming they were backed by federally guaranteed
student loans. The men told clients the investments, actually
backed by riskier corporate debt and subprime mortgages, were a
safe alternative to  bank deposits  or money-market funds, said
prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in
 Brooklyn .  ‘Substantial Assistance’  Prosecutors in a filing yesterday asked for leniency for
Tzolov because of his “substantial assistance,” including his
aid in convicting Butler.  “This defendant did cooperate and effectively laid out the
fraud that was committed and the fact that the banks and their
customers have closed their eyes to their obligations to the
public,” Weinstein said in sentencing Tzolov. “Credit Suisse was
careless in supervising various people.”  David Walker , a spokesman for Zurich-based Credit Suisse,
declined to comment.  Weinstein also ordered Tzolov to pay $1.11 million in
restitution to victims and $250,000 in forfeiture to the
government.  Tzolov and Butler worked as partners in Credit Suisse’s
corporate cash management group, a division that helped clients
manage excess corporate cash holdings, according to court
papers. They routinely falsified the names of the securities
they put their clients in by, for example, adding “ed” or
“student loan” and deleting “housing,” according to
prosecutors.  Higher Commissions  The brokers earned higher commissions from selling
securities backed by corporate debt and mortgages than from
selling those backed by student loans.  Their clients included  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and
 STMicroelectronics NV. (STM)   Butler and Tzolov were allowed to keep $4.45 million in
signing bonuses under a July 2010 arbitration ruling lost by
their former employer,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , at the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The two men joined New York-based Morgan
Stanley after leaving Credit Suisse.  The cases are U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, 09-cr-475 and 10-
cr-83, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 