-- 
Ex-SAC Capital Manager Tells Jiau Jury of Hallucinogenic Trip

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-08T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/ex-sac-capital-manager-tells-jury-he-traded-on-tips-18-times-1-.html
A former SAC Capital Advisors LLP
portfolio manager, testifying at an insider-trading trial, said
that on a business trip he ingested a hallucinogenic mushroom
that resulted in his wandering around the streets of San
Francisco in his underwear.  Noah Freeman, 35, who pleaded guilty to  securities fraud  in
February, is the first of three cooperating witnesses who the
U.S. said will testify against Winifred Jiau, 43, a former
Primary Global Research LLC consultant charged with conspiracy
and securities fraud. She’s the first of the so-called expert
networkers to go on trial as part of a U.S. crackdown on insider
trading at  hedge funds  and faces as long as 25 years in prison
if convicted.  Freeman was asked yesterday about his drug history during
cross-examination by David Luttinger, a lawyer for Jiau. Freeman
said he smoked marijuana regularly from his senior year in high
school until 2009 and said he took a hallucinogenic mushroom
once while attending a conference in  San Francisco  in 2009.  “I was walking around looking for something to do,”
Freeman said, adding that he’d bought the drug outside a concert
hall. When he didn’t get an immediate reaction, he said he ate
some more.  Bought Drugs  “‘Weren’t you running around the streets of San Francisco
in your underwear?” asked Luttinger, who also asked Freeman why
he hadn’t given authorities or hospital officials his real name
when he was found wandering and disoriented.  “It was one of the worst experiences of my life,” Freeman
said. “I was worried I was going to get in trouble with SAC.”  Luttinger closely questioned Freeman about the number of
times he committed  insider trading  based on material, nonpublic
information while at Sonar Capital.  “Approximately a dozen where I’m totally confident the
information was material and nonpublic,” Freeman said.  “What about your time at SAC Capital?” Luttinger asked.  “Focusing on only the ones where there was no question of
a gray area, I would say perhaps half a dozen,” Freeman said.
“Again, my trading style was faster there, so I don’t remember
quite as well.”  Luttinger pressed Freeman to pinpoint exactly where, in
scores of electronic messages, instant electronic messages and
secretly recorded calls of conversations, that Jiau had conveyed
material, nonpublic information to him.  Freeman could only point to one instance in which Jiau
provided Freeman with an Nvidia earnings number before it was
publicly announced.  Graduated, Fired  Freeman, who graduated from  Harvard College  in 1999,
testified he worked at Sonar Capital from February 2005 until
February 2008. He worked at SAC Capital from June 2008 to
January 2010, when he was fired by SAC Capital, he said.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital, said in
an e-mailed statement, “Freeman’s testimony confirms what we
said initially: his outrageous actions required active
circumvention of our compliance policies and systems.”  Freeman, who said his contract at SAC Capital guaranteed
him a minimum compensation of $1.3 million, testified yesterday
that Jiau had “nailed it two quarters in a row” with data she
provided in late 2006 and early 2007 about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)   Jiau is also accused of passing tips to Donald Longueuil, a
former SAC Capital fund manager, and Samir Barai, founder of New
York-based Barai Capital Management LP, about Nvidia and Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. Barai and Longueuil have pleaded guilty.  Freeman testified the tips allowed Sonar Capital to make
$20 million to $30 million.  ‘Wafer Data’  Luttinger asked Freeman if he, Longueuil and Barai had
numerous other sources of inside information about semiconductor
makers, including “wafer data,” from individuals other than
Jiau.  Freeman identified five people who provided him such data.
He said the three portfolio managers had nicknames for these
sources, calling one man “Cha-Ching,” in a reference to a cash
register’s sound. Another source was named “10-K” because his
information was long and complicated like a company’s 10-K
filing, Freeman said.  Freeman described how the three men had telephone
conference calls or used the Skype Internet phone service to
speak to Jiau to get tips, which they referred to as a “data
dump” or a “smack down.”  Prostitute Question  “Was it your experience that people working in companies
based in  Taiwan  were looser with their financial information and
sales data?” Luttinger asked.  “Yes, they were,” Freeman said.  Luttinger asked Freeman if he ever paid for prostitutes for
his sources, citing a report by the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  describing an incident at a karaoke bar in Taiwan
called the Red Horse.  “Didn’t you purchase a prostitute?” Luttinger asked.  “No,” Freeman said. “The conversation was conducted in
Chinese. I collected a large bill and I was never sure what
happened.”  He said the bill totaled “a couple of thousand dollars,”
and he submitted it to his assistant at Sonar Capital who
“sorted it out.”  Mark Hyland, a lawyer representing Sonar Capital and its
founder, Neil Druker, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail
message seeking comment yesterday. Freeman’s lawyer, Benjamin Rosenberg of Dechert LLP, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  Testimony Disputed  Last week, Hyland disputed Freeman’s testimony, saying that
“any statement that Sonar Capital used insider trading as a
business model is categorically false.”  Primary Global is an expert networking firm that matched
portfolio managers with specialists in public companies from a
database of consultants. At least 13 people have been charged in
the case and nine have pleaded guilty. One of those was another
Primary Global employee, Don Ching Trang Chu, who pleaded guilty
yesterday in the same courthouse.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 