-- 
Fathoming the Unfathomable in the Case of Anthony Weiner: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-07T18:51:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/fathoming-the-unfathomable-in-the-case-of-congressman-anthony-weiner-view.html
At the end of it all, we’re left, as
we always are, with the bitter-tasting “why?” Why did Anthony Weiner send his pictures by text, Twitter and Facebook? Why,
when the New York congressman has a great job and the
responsibility of the public trust and a new wife and a bright
future and the knowledge -- knowledge born of observing
countless other personal disasters -- that digital media leave a
permanent record, did he send those shirtless shots, and
probably more? Oh, and why did he lie?  We have no answer to those questions. And, as his
performance at Monday’s news conference made clear, Weiner
probably doesn’t have much of a clue himself.  Knowing what we know now -- Weiner says no laws were broken
and the encounters were consensual -- the congressman should not
be forced to resign. An ethics investigation doesn’t hold much
promise, either. Weiner is at the high end of congressional
embarrassment and dishonor, but he hasn’t broken any records in
this regard. The swiftness with which his Democratic colleagues
have called for investigations, though, indicates something
else: that Anthony Weiner has probably outlived his utility.  Weiner has a meager record as a legislator. But he was a
fierce, effective and sometimes self-righteous advocate for the
Democratic line. Having tweeted away his moral authority, he is
now of little use to the leadership.  It’s also possible that he’s done some long-term damage to
his party. A primary challenge could leave the door open for
another Democrat and then, maybe, a Republican. In a
redistricting year, one in which New York needs to lose two
House seats, Weiner’s vulnerability could tempt legislators to
do what was probably unthinkable a week ago: eliminate his
district altogether.  Barring any further scandal, Anthony Weiner should be
allowed to stay in his job. Political rehabilitation will be
difficult; probably not as elusive as cold fusion, but up there.
Trying to build a legislative record in the Republican-
controlled House will be tough; so too will be escaping the aura
of ridicule. Still, New York politics has long been the land of
second chances. Weiner has a year and change to convince voters
that he deserves one. 