-- 
Fed to Conduct Reverse Repo Agreements With New Counterparties

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-06-07T14:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/fed-to-conduct-reverse-repo-agreements-with-new-counterparties.html
The  Federal Reserve  will resume
conducting tri-party reverse repurchase agreements tomorrow as
it prepares for the eventual withdrawal of the unprecedented
monetary stimulus provided by the central bank.  The transactions, part of a series of open-market
operations first announced in December 2009, don’t represent any
change in monetary policy, according to a statement on the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s  website.  One set of
operations tomorrow will involve only the money market mutual
funds added as potential counterparties on May 23. A second
series tomorrow will be open to all eligible counterparties.  The Fed last month expanded its list of counterparties used
for reverse repurchase agreements to include  money market funds 
managed by 17 firms including Dreyfus Corp. and T. Rowe Price
Associates Inc. The Fed began expanding its counterparties last
year as the 20 securities firms that act as primary dealers work
to shore up their own balance sheets after the worst financial
crisis in decades.  In a reverse repo, the Fed lends securities for a set
period, temporarily draining cash from the banking system. At
maturity, the securities are returned to the Fed, and the cash
to the dealers and money funds.  Policy makers led by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  are
considering how to withdraw the more than $1 trillion they have
pumped into the financial system to combat the deepest recession
since the 1930s. Along with raising the overnight bank lending
rate, Fed officials have said they may use tools including
reverse repos to withdraw or neutralize cash in the banking
system.  Tri-Party Repo  The operations beginning tomorrow have been designed to
have no material impact on the availability of reserves or
market rates, the Fed said today.  The Fed cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low
range of zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008 and then adopted
asset purchases as its main policy tool. It is scheduled to
complete $600 billion in Treasury purchases in June.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party functions as the
agent for the transaction and holds the security as collateral.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. are the
only banks that serve in a trade-clearing capacity in the tri-
party repo market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  