-- 
Feng Ping’s New Rules for the Chinese Manufacturing Game

-- B y   M e g a n   S h a n k
-- 
2011-06-07T22:16:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/feng-ping-s-new-rules-for-the-chinese-manufacturing-game.html
In December 2006, brothers John and Jim
Fiocchi received an unexpected phone call from Golden Bright,
their most important supplier in China. The Shenzhen plastic
injection molder and assembler, which manufactured the plastic
enclosures the Fiocchis’ two companies near Chicago designed and
sold, had just been acquired by  Highway Holdings (HIHO) , a
manufacturer the Chicago natives had never heard of.  With 90 percent of the Fiocchis’ molds and tools at Golden
Bright’s factory, the brothers weren’t soothed by Golden Bright
President Peter Wang’s assurances that everything would stay the
same. By July 2007, more than 400 purchase orders hadn’t been
shipped, according to John, so the brothers traveled to the
Shenzhen factory to investigate. Their products were stacked
outside in plastic bins, John says.  In the months that followed, the Fiocchis attempted to withdraw
their tools and molds but allege that Golden Bright wouldn’t
release them unless they paid $200,000. Roland Kohl, founder and
chief executive officer of Highway Holdings, says Golden Bright
once withheld shipments to force the collection of outstanding
payments from the Fiocchis. “If we would have done anything
wrong, they surely would have sued us in court,” says Kohl.  The Fiocchis had product from Golden Bright in stock, but it was
dwindling. They scoured the region for a molder that could grasp
their particular method of injection molding. They struck out.
Most Chinese vendors “weren’t interested in low volume or quick
turnaround,” says Jim. They found a couple of manufacturing
partners that seemed promising, but the parts emerged mangled
and mismeasured.  Foreign-Owned Factory  After hiring PricewaterhouseCoopers’s Shenzhen office, the
Fiocchis determined that a wholly foreign-owned enterprise
(WFOE), a Chinese investment vehicle that would allow the
brothers to own all of a business in  China , was the best way to
keep product flowing to their U.S. businesses over the long
term. While waiting to establish it, they got creative, signing
a lease for a stripped-down factory on Feng Ping Road in
Fenggang, a town not far from their old factory in Shenzhen. By
November 2007, they had refurbished it and moved in, filling it
with the molds and inserts they’d recovered from Golden Bright
and new molding presses and tooling equipment. They hired a
staff of 20, mostly poached from Golden Bright.  Within five months they had produced a year’s worth of supply of
product for their enclosure companies. The Fiocchis say to
operate legally they formalized their operation by setting up
 Feng Ping Tooling  as a domestic Chinese company with help from a
Chinese friend. “We operated as a domestic Chinese company until
we became a WFOE,” John says. “I had people all around me who
said I couldn’t. In China, when people say no, I know that means
I’m on to something good. When they don’t know the answer, they
say it can’t be done.”  Starting Feng Ping Tooling shifted their business focus. In late
2007, at a Cub Scouts pinewood derby outside  Chicago , Jim
Fiocchi befriended Jeff Giannelli, now president at mold
manufacturer Cortina Companies. When Jim told Giannelli he and
his brother owned a tooling company in China, Giannelli asked
whether the Fiocchis could make some molds for him. The request
was a revelation for the brothers. Not only did they have the
capacity and know-how to meet their own demands, they could also
do custom molding and tooling for other companies that sought
U.S. quality at Chinese prices.  The brothers began marketing Feng Ping to U.S. injection molders
and toolmakers in 2008, doing $300,000 in sales that year. That
effort continued into 2009 and 2010. When they weren’t in China,
they were knocking on doors, pitching their manufacturing
services. Many doubted their claims, John says. “Nine out of 10
companies thought we were liars and there was no way the Fiocchi
brothers owned a tooling and molding company in China.”  Risky Approach  Dan Harris, a founding partner of international law firm Harris
& Moure in  Seattle , says he doesn’t understand what the Fiocchis
mean when they say they owned a domestic company. “There are
essentially three kinds of companies in which foreigners can
have ownership,” Harris says. “A WFOE, which has to be 100
percent foreign-owned; a rep office, which has to be 100 percent
foreign-owned; and a joint venture, which is owned by a foreign
company and a domestic company. A domestic company cannot have
any foreign ownership at all.” “China Inside Out” author Bill
Dodson says he’s heard of foreigners using Chinese citizens to
form a domestic company and then contracting with the Chinese
citizen to be able to control the company, but warns “it’s
dangerous, because the Chinese person who sets up the business
has the license, controls the chops, and has the relationship
with the local government officials.” Jim Fiocchi says he
wouldn’t recommend the approach he took with his brother.  Still, by the end of 2009, they had sold 141 molds for other
companies, doing more than $1 million in sales. In 2010, they
sold 258 molds for about $3 million. (After the Fiocchis
completed establishing their WFOE in the fall of 2009, they say
they dissolved their domestic Chinese company.) This year they
expect to sell 700 molds to customers like  3M (MMM) ,  Caterpillar
(CAT) , and Georgia-Pacific for $10 million. “We went from two
small businesses each doing $2 to $3 million a year to a wholly
foreign-owned enterprise that does at least $1 million in sales
a month,” Jim says.  While labor rates have continued to increase, as have energy
costs, these elements haven’t affected profit margins much, says
John, noting Feng Ping pays competitive rates above minimum wage
to secure loyalty. The biggest challenge he points to is
managing growth: As orders increase and Feng Ping’s 280-person
staff expands, the factory is feeling too small. The Fiocchis
don’t want to leave the immediate area where entire families
have worked for them and they say they’ve built political
connections. Plus, land is hard to come by in the increasingly
crowded  Pearl River Delta . “[China] has torn down mountains to
make space [for industry],” John says. “We’re looking for a
long-term solution that will fit the growth of the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Megan Shank at
 mm.shank@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  