-- 
Fisher Says There Is ‘No Need’ for Third Round of Asset Buying

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-06-07T14:56:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/fisher-says-there-is-no-need-for-third-round-of-asset-buying.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said there is “no need” for a third
round of large-scale asset purchases and said the Fed’s next
step would be to stop reinvesting maturing mortgage debt.  “In my opinion, there is no need for QE3,” Fisher said
today in an interview on CNBC, referring to the policy of
quantitative easing. “There is plenty of liquidity in the
system.”  Fisher has said he will be among the first policy makers to
push for a reversal of the easing policy after the central bank
ends its purchases of $600 billion of Treasuries this month. The
Dallas chief, who votes on the  Federal Open Market Committee 
this year, dissented five times in favor of tighter policy the
last time he was a voting member in 2008.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in April said that the Fed would
initially hold its balance sheet steady after completing the
asset purchases by reinvesting maturing Treasuries and mortgage
backed securities to keep its balance sheet level.  Fed policy makers began to coalesce at their April 26-27
meeting around a strategy to reverse record monetary stimulus by
first ending their reinvestment policy and later raising
 interest rates  and selling assets, according to minutes of the
session.  “The next step would be for us to stop investing those
rolloffs and replacing them, but that isn’t a tightening of
policy,” Fisher said today. “What happens from here on out is
dependent on how we see the economy evolving.”  Need for ‘Clarity’  Fisher said Congress and the Obama administration need to
“provide clarity” on deficit reduction and how federal
entitlement programs such as Medicare can be funded in the long
term.  Fisher also said a decline in gasoline prices from a peak
of $3.99 in early May would spur the economy in the second half
of the year. Growth slowed to a 1.8 percent annual pace in the
first quarter.  “We’re going to have more robust economic growth in the
second half than people are expecting,” he said. “We are
likely to have second-half economic growth in the 3 to 4 percent
range, without creating inflationary pressures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  