-- 
Flaherty Says Operating Cost Cuts to Balance Canadian Budget

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-06-07T12:47:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/flaherty-says-operating-cost-cuts-will-balance-canadian-budget.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , whose  Conservative Party  won a majority in last
month’s election, is counting on cuts in government operating
costs and the elimination of tax loopholes to balance his budget
within four years.  Flaherty yesterday said he will seek to bring the federal
government back into surplus by 2014 by reviewing government
operating costs to save up to C$4 billion ($4.1 billion)
annually. The government also plans to generate C$4.1 billion in
savings over the next five years by closing tax loopholes.  “The cornerstone of the budget,” Flaherty told lawmakers
yesterday as he presented his 2011 fiscal plan, “is strong
fiscal management.”  Flaherty and Prime Minister Stephen Harper have said they
want to accelerate deficit cuts to secure the recovery and
finance corporate tax cuts at a time of mounting concerns over
sovereign debt risk.  Canada ’s improving fiscal outlook has
boosted demand for its long-term  government bonds  relative to
other Group of Seven peers, with yields on Canada’s 30-year
securities 76 basis points less than similar U.S. bonds.  “In the private sector this would be viewed as not very
ambitious,” Flaherty told reporters in Ottawa, referring to the
planned spending cuts. He said the total amounts to 5 percent of
the government’s C$80 billion in annual discretionary spending.
“It’s challenging to do. Is it doable? It’s absolutely
doable.”  Bond Yields  The 30-year yield on the Government of Canada bond fell to
3.45 percent on June 1, the lowest intraday level since Nov. 1,
and down from as high as 3.88 percent in February, according to
Bloomberg data. It was trading at 3.52 percent at 8:34 a.m. in
Toronto trading. Similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries were trading
at 4.27 percent.  Flaherty’s budget  document  released yesterday, which
doesn’t account for the operating savings, projects a return to
balance in the fiscal year starting April 2015.  Jack Layton , leader of the main opposition  New Democratic
Party , said the governing Conservatives are concealing the
extent of cuts to Canadians. “Billions of dollars of cuts are
being hidden away,” he said. Flaherty said the savings will be
recorded in next year’s budget.  The budget, Flaherty’s sixth, is the first that won’t need
support from opposition lawmakers to pass. Under Flaherty’s
tenure, program spending has increased 40 percent to C$245
billion as he sought to placate opposition parties and win favor
with voters.  Compensation for Quebec  Today’s fiscal plan has few changes to the one presented
March 22, which wasn’t approved by Parliament before the
election. It projects a deficit of C$36.2 billion for the fiscal
year that ended in March, down from an initially projected
C$40.5 billion, due to lower program spending.  The deficit for this fiscal year is forecast at C$32.3
billion, C$2.7 billion more than earlier projected. That
includes C$2.2 billion to compensate  Quebec  for merging its
provincial  sales tax  with the federal levy, a payment  proposed 
by the government during the election campaign.  The budget projects a deficit of C$300 million for the 2014
fiscal year, and a surplus of C$4.2 billion for the 2015 fiscal
year, both unchanged from the March fiscal plan. Including
projected spending cuts, Canada would run surpluses of C$3.7
billion in 2014 and C$8.2 billion in 2015, according to the
budget document.  The revised deficit projections led the government to
adjust its debt-management strategy for the current fiscal year.
Canada will cover its extra borrowing needs by issuing an
additional C$5 billion of Treasury Bills, bringing the total to
C$150 billion, the documents show. The federal debt is projected
to be C$3.3 billion less in 2010-11, and $6.6 billion less over
the six-year planning horizon.  ‘Responsible Budget’  “It’s a very financially responsible budget,” said Albert
Baker, head of  tax policy , at Deloitte in Canada. “There is a
plan in place to eliminate the deficit,” he said, adding the
government needs to do more to reduce personal income taxes and
provide incentives for innovation.  The government expects C$2.9 billion in savings through
March 2016 from closing a loophole that allows corporations with
significant interests in partnerships to defer income. Closing a
loophole related to retirement-saving plans will generate an
additional C$500 million.  Flaherty’s budget kept the same economic forecasts as
March, projecting GDP growth of 2.9 percent in 2011 and 2.8
percent in 2012.  The budget said that while economic growth in the first
quarter was faster than expected, recent indicators suggest the
pace of expansion will slow in the second quarter. The document
also said the focus of concern has shifted towards sovereign
debt in  Europe  and away from oil price volatility and the impact
of the Japanese earthquake and tsunami.  Second-fastest Growth  Canada posted 3.9 percent annualized economic growth in the
first quarter, second only to  Germany  among Group of Seven
nations and more than twice the U.S. rate. Still, the  Bank of
Canada   predicted  in April economic growth would slow in the
second quarter to about half the first-quarter pace.  The plan includes a two-year extension of an accelerated
capital-cost allowance for manufacturers, and an extension by
one year of a 15 percent tax credit for mineral exploration.  Canada’s fiscal plan also moves ahead with planned
corporate income tax cuts. Canada reduced the federal rate by
1.5 percentage points to 16.5 percent on Jan. 1, and it will
fall to 15 percent in 2012 under legislation passed in 2007.
Royal Bank of Canada,  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and Suncor Energy Inc.
-- the country’s three biggest taxpayers over the past 12 months
-- will be among the beneficiaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  