-- 
For-Profit Colleges Game Student Loan Defaults, Harkin Says

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-07T20:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/for-profit-college-students-need-rules-protection-kanter-says.html
Iowa Senator  Tom Harkin  said for-
profit colleges work to delay student loan defaults to maintain
their eligibility for federal aid, which makes up as much as 90
percent of the companies’ revenue.  Harkin, a Democrat and chairman of the Senate Health,
Education, Labor and Pensions committee, released e-mails at a
hearing in  Washington  in which for-profit college employees
celebrated their success in pushing back student defaults.  To qualify for federal student aid, schools must show that
former students’ default rates don’t exceed limits set by the
Education Department during the first two years of required
repayment. For-profit colleges deliberately delay student
defaults to comply with the rules, Harkin said. In an internal
e-mail released by Harkin, an employee of  Washington Post Co. (WPO) ’s
Kaplan Higher Education business reported that an unemployed
student signed a forbearance agreement that prevented default.  “Woohoo!” said the e-mail, whose author’s name was redacted
by the committee. “One more student off the delinquency report.”  The hearing was the fifth in which Harkin has examined
business practices at for-profit colleges, where student loan
default rates are about double those at public universities, and
three times the rates at private nonprofit institutions.
Internal e-mails from Apollo Group Inc., owner of the University
of Phoenix and the biggest U.S. for-profit college, released at
the hearing today suggest less than half of student loan
defaults occur in the first three years of repayment.  Skilled in Manipulation  “Some for-profit schools have become skilled in
manipulating their default rates,” Harkin said. “Managing cohort
default rates merely delays default for some students and can
result in a higher debt when the default occurs.”  The Education Department is preparing to track student loan
defaults over three years, rather than two, to pick up the
delayed ones. The department should track defaults even longer
after graduation, said Pauline Abernathy, vice president of the
 Institute for College Access & Success , an Oakland, California-
based nonprofit research and advocacy group.  “Clearly more needs to be done to hold schools
accountable,” Abernathy said at the hearing.  The Bloomberg U.S. For-Profit Education Index of 13
companies, including  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , soared 12 percent on
June 2, the most in six years, when new student aid rules were
published with changes from an earlier version that favor the
for-profit college industry. The index slipped 0.3 percent at 4
p.m. New York time today.  Quicker Action  Education Secretary Arne Duncan was expected to testify at
the hearing until yesterday, when he said he was recuperating
from back pain and would send undersecretary Martha Kanter in
his place. Committee Republicans, led by Wyoming Senator Michael Enzi, boycotted the meeting.  The changes in the rules, called “gainful employment,”
postpone the Education Department’s harshest sanctions until
2015, while the version released last year would have cut off
federal aid to programs with high default rates and low student
incomes beginning in 2012. Quicker action is needed to protect
students and taxpayers from predatory programs, Harkin said.  “I’m alarmed that we aren’t doing more to look ahead and
say, wait a minute, we’ve got to do something now,” Harkin said
to Kanter.  The regulations are designed to encourage for-profit
colleges to reform their practices and only cut aid eligibility
for the worst-performing schools with the highest debt and
default rates, Kanter said.  “We want the sector to succeed,” she said. “That’s one of
the fundamental tenets of the rules.”  Affordability Center  The department is preparing more initiatives to help
students shop for high-quality programs while incurring less
debt, Kanter said. The agency will issue guidance for for-profit
colleges to design programs that allow students to monitor
courses without incurring debt before signing up, she said.  Phoenix-based Apollo and the Washington Post Co.’s Kaplan
Higher Education business have begun such programs. Apollo fell
14 cents to $44.57 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Washington Post
gained $5.28 to $423.98 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  Corinthian Colleges Inc. (COCO)  fell 20 cents, or 4.1 percent,
to $4.69 on the Nasdaq.  The Education Department will also unveil a College
Affordability and Transparency Center later this month to give
students more information about educational program prices,
Kanter said. More information for students, along with the
threat of the loss of government funds, will encourage for-
profit colleges to reduce student debt, she said.  High Tuition  “These steps will help ensure that students at these
schools are getting what they pay for: solid preparation for a
good job,” Kanter said  The Education Department’s gainful-employment rules require
for-profit colleges to hit benchmarks for loan repayment and
graduates’ incomes to qualify for federal student aid, which
represents as much as 90 percent of the colleges’ revenue.  The industry fought the rules with a $6.6 million 2010
lobbying campaign.  Harris Miller , president of the Association
of Private Sector Colleges & Universities, said last week his
for-profit college trade group might file suit to block the
rules.  For-profit colleges’ tuition rates and internal lending
programs contribute to their students’ debt and default rates,
Harkin said. An associate’s degree in business from Corinthian’s
Everest College in  Florida  costs $46,792, compared with about
$6,453 for the same degree from Miami Dade College, Harkin said.
 Santa Ana , California-based Corinthian charges students 18
percent interest for loans, and expects as much as 55 percent of
students to default, he said.  ‘Ruined Credit’  “The student has no idea that they’re more likely to end up
with ruined credit than a college degree,” Harkin said.  Corinthian began lending money to students in 2008 during
the financial crisis when loans from other sources were
unavailable, said Kent Jenkins, a Corinthian spokesman. While
the company initially charged 18 percent, for about the past
year it applied the same rate used by the federal government for
Stafford loans, which is less than 7 percent, he said in a
telephone interview.  “This was not conceived as a profit center and we do not
view it as a profit center,” Jenkins said. “It was a response to
the economic crisis. It is an enterprise we want to get out of
as soon as we can.”  Corinthian’s default rate for the two-year cohort entering
in 2009 was more than 21 percent and will be 9 or 10 percent for
the 2010 cohort, Jenkins said.  $10.50 an Hour  Eric Schmitt said that he graduated from the Post Co.’s
 Kaplan University  in 2004 with an associate degree in paralegal
studies. Unable to find work at first, he took further courses
from Kaplan that brought his student loan debt to $45,000, while
the only work he has been able to find pays him $10.50 an hour
as a janitor, he said at the hearing.  Schmitt received and took a job offer from a  law firm  where
he performed an externship he obtained through Kaplan, the
company said today in a statement. While he later resigned from
the job, he cited the externship as a beneficial part of his
education at Kaplan in an evaluation, according to the
statement.  Harkin cited Kaplan as having taken “interesting steps” to
accurately inform students about the cost and quality of its
programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  