-- 
Swap Exemption May Post Risk to U.S. Financial System, Exchange Group Says

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-06-07T20:58:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/foreign-swap-dodd-frank-exemption-may-open-loophole-exchange-group-says.html
A U.S.  Treasury Department proposal 
exempting foreign exchange swaps and forwards from Dodd-Frank
Act regulations could increase risk in the financial system and
undermine the regulatory overhaul, a trade association for
exchanges and users of the derivatives market said.  The proposed exemption, released on April 29, doesn’t
account for the credit risk that buyers and sellers face in the
$4 trillion global daily foreign exchange market, the
Washington-based  Commodity Markets Council  said  in a letter 
yesterday to the Treasury Department. The council’s 40 members
include the  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,  Kansas City Board of Trade  and
 Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)   The council “believes exempting foreign exchange forwards
and swaps at this time from the clearing and trading
requirements of Dodd-Frank could increase systemic risk at a
time when regulators around the globe are trying to reduce it,”
according to the letter, which was submitted in response to the
Treasury’s proposal. “Our concern is the creation of a
loophole,”  Christine M. Cochran , president of the association,
said in an interview.  Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulatory overhaul enacted last
July, left it to the Treasury Department to determine if foreign
exchange swaps and forwards should be subject to new clearing
and trading rules intended to reduce risk and boost
transparency. The  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  and
 Securities and Exchange Commission  are leading U.S. regulatory
efforts to write new rules for the $601 trillion over-the-
counter swaps market after largely unregulated trades helped
fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  ‘Narrow Slice’  The Treasury Department, in the April release, said that
foreign exchange trades already have high levels of price
transparency and effective risk management. “We think this
narrow slice should be exempted,” Assistant Treasury Secretary
 Mary Miller  said at an April 29 briefing for reporters. The
proposal hasn’t yet been finalized.  A coalition of 20 financial firms including  Deutsche Bank
AG (DB) ,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  and  UBS AG (UBS) , asked Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to grant an exemption.  Foreign exchange contracts were the largest source of
trading revenue for banks’ derivatives and cash positions in
2010, according to the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency. U.S. commercial banks recorded $9.1 billion in revenue
on trading of foreign exchange derivatives.  The exemption has also been opposed by the AFL-CIO labor
union, Democratic Senators Carl Levin of Michigan and Maria Cantwell of Washington, and Americans for Financial Reform, a
coalition of labor union and consumer watchdog groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  