-- 
Former Primary Global Consultant Chu to Plead Guilty

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-06-07T16:35:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/former-primary-global-consultant-don-chu-to-plead-guilty-court-clerk-says.html
Don Ching Trang Chu, an expert
consultant to hedge funds who is accused of passing inside
information, will plead guilty, according to his lawyer and a
court clerk.  The former  Primary Global Research LLC  employee is to enter
the plea today before U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New
York, a clerk for the judge said.  James DeVita , an attorney for
Chu, confirmed by phone today that his client will plead guilty.
He declined to comment further.  Chu worked as the Taiwan liaison for  Mountain View ,
California-based Primary Global. He was arrested in November and
charged with two counts of conspiracy. He allegedly arranged for
insiders at publicly traded companies to provide confidential
information to Primary Global clients.  He is accused in connection with one of three alleged
overlapping  insider-trading  rings that included Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Prosecutors said Chu passed tips
to Richard Choo-Beng Lee, a former partner at San Jose,
California-based Spherix Capital LLC, beginning in late 2008.  Lee pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the government
along with his partner, Ali Far.  Prosecutors told Rakoff in April that they had had
extensive discussions with Chu about a possible guilty plea.  Chu liked to arrange investor meetings in  Asia  to avoid the
scrutiny of U.S. regulators, the government says.  SEC ‘Too Strong’  The Securities and Exchange Commission is “too strong,”
Chu told Lee in August 2009 in a conversation recorded by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, according to a government
complaint. “In Asia, there, nobody cares.”  Rakoff is presiding over the trial of Winifred Jiau, a
former Primary Global consultant accused of passing inside
information to hedge fund managers about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and
 Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)   Jiau is charged with five criminal counts that include
conspiracy,  securities fraud  and  wire fraud . She faces as long
as 25 years in prison if convicted.  Chu and Jiau are among 13 people charged in an
investigation of insider trading at expert networking firms by
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan. Eight have pleaded
guilty.  Rajaratnam, charged with profiting from trades based on
inside information, was convicted  May 11 of all 14 criminal
counts against him. His lawyer said he will appeal.  A jury is deliberating the criminal case of Zvi Goffer, a
former Galleon Group trader, and two other men in the same
courthouse where the Chu and Jiau cases are pending. Goffer and
his codefendants are charged with conspiring to trade on inside
information.  The case is U.S. v. Chu, 1:11-cr-00032, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  