-- 
France Says it Will Support Farmers Hurt by E. Coli Outbreak

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-06-07T07:40:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/france-says-it-will-support-farmers-hurt-by-e-coli-outbreak.html
Following are comments from French
Agriculture Minister Bruno Le Maire on the E. coli outbreak in
 Europe  and the European Union’s Common Agricultural Policy. He
spoke in an interview in London today.  “I will support any kind of compensation for Spanish and
French producers because we have to take into account the
financial loss for the producers.”  “It is fair to try to define the way of compensating the
loss of the producers. I don’t exactly know the form it will
take and what is the most convenient way of going this way of
compensating the producers. But it is fair to have compensation
for each of the producers.”  “First of all we have to make an assessment of the loss of
the producers. I’m not in a situation today to give any precise
figure about the loss of the French producers.”  “The second point is to have a clear view on the origin of
the disease and for the time being I’m not able to give any
evidence and any assessment of the cause and origin of the
disease and if we want to restore the confidence of the
consumers, which is the key point, we need to know exactly what
is the origin of the disease.”  “The third point, which is important to me, is to have a
look at our safety system. There has been a failure, there has
been a great failure, and we have to take that into account and
try improve our safety system so that it will never happen
again.”  On the Common Agricultural Policy:  “It is a key political choice. If we want  food safety , and
food safety is of course related to this very last crisis, but
there have been other crises and there will other safety crises
in Europe.”  “The first point is the question of food safety. The
second point, the question of  food security . Do we want to
ensure food security for all European consumers or not? Do we
want to depend on imports of goods and commodities coming from
Brazil and  Argentina , U.S. or other countries or do we want to
be independent? I think we have to be independent and we have to
secure our food security.”  “And the third point of course is the question of
sustainable development.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Wallace in  London  at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  