-- 
France Backs Farm Compensation Plan for Producers Hurt by E.Coli Outbreak

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e ,   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-07T19:19:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/france-backs-farm-compensation-plan-for-producers-hurt-by-e-coli-outbreak.html
France , the European Union’s largest
agricultural producer, backed a 150 million-euro ($220 million)
aid plan as a “first gesture” to compensate farmers in the 27-
nation bloc after a deadly outbreak of E. coli decimated demand.  As much as 80 percent of vegetables are being destroyed in
some areas because there is no market for them, Copa-Cogeca, a
farm lobby group based in Brussels, said today in a report. EU
food producers are losing as much as 400 million euros a week
from the drop in demand, it said.  EU agriculture ministers were meeting in Luxembourg today
to discuss their response to the outbreak, which has killed 23
people and sickened 2,429. They are also contending with a
trade crisis after  Russia  banned imports June 2 and Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  said he won’t “poison people” to meet
international trade rules.  “It is fair to try to define the way of compensating the
loss of the producers,” French Agriculture Minister Bruno Le Maire said in an interview in London today, adding that its
scale had yet to be decided. “There has been a great failure,
and we have to take that into account and try to improve our
safety system so that it will never happen again.”  ‘Broad Support Measures’  The Netherlands, the world’s second-largest agricultural
exporter, after the U.S., said yesterday it is asking for
“broad support measures” for vegetable growers, including
buying up of produce that can no longer be sold to consumers.
The origin of the outbreak is still unknown.  The European Commission may make an “improved” aid
proposal as soon as tomorrow after some member states balked at
the initial offer of 150 million euros, EU Agriculture
Commissioner Dacian Ciolos said today at a news conference in
Luxembourg.  The commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, may look again at
“the total available envelope” and the rate of compensation
for growers, Ciolos said after the news conference. “We’ll
improve this offer but within the available budget.”  The EU had offered to pay 30 percent of the average price
over the past four years for cucumbers, tomatoes and salads
offered for destruction, commission spokesman Roger Waite said.  ‘First Gesture’  The 150 million-euro plan is a “first gesture,” Le Maire
said at a press conference in Luxembourg. “I think the crisis
will continue, and we’ll need additional aid. French growers are
losing money day after day.”  The EU should spend as much as 55 million euros on a three-
week media campaign to promote fresh produce, Freshfel  Europe ,
which represents the industry, said today. Sales of cucumbers
fell 80 percent to 100 percent in some member states, tomatoes
50 percent to 80 percent and lettuce more than 50 percent, it
said in a statement.  Cucumbers slumped to 5 cents a unit from a five-year
average of 21 cents, while tomatoes now cost 13 cents a kilogram
(2.2 pounds), compared with an average of 60 cents, Copa-Cogeca
said. Prices are “well below” production costs, it said.  Spanish fruit and vegetable producers are losing 225
million euros a week because of the outbreak, said Jose Maria
Pozancos, director general of trade group FEPEX. The Dutch
vegetable industry is losing 80 million euros a week as orders
are canceled, the farm group LTO Nederland said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Wallace in  London  at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Luxembourg at  rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  