-- 
Free Carbon Permits, Aid Will Protect EU Industry, Envoy Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-06-07T14:48:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/free-carbon-permits-aid-will-protect-eu-industry-envoy-says.html
Free carbon allowances and state aid
to steelmakers and big electricity users will protect European
Union companies from competitors without emission caps, the
European Commission’s climate envoy said.  The 27-nation EU is looking at the possibility of a law to
allow state aid to companies that would kick in once electricity
prices reach a certain level, the envoy, Artur Runge-Metzger,
said today in an interview in Bonn. Envoys are meeting there for
two weeks of  climate change  talks that began yesterday. The bloc
can also give free carbon permits to those companies under
current laws, he said.  With the United Nations flagging “stark new warnings”
yesterday of rising greenhouse gas emissions, countries
including Japan, Russia and  Canada  are avoiding new binding
targets to replace current ones under the  Kyoto Protocol , which
expires in 2012. That would leave the EU almost isolated among
major emitters in accepting internationally binding limits.  While EU law allows for a border tax on goods from
countries without carbon limits, it may not be needed for now,
Runge-Metzger said. “With the free allowances and the state
aid, this would be sufficient to protect European industry.”  The EU held two months of consultations with companies over
possible state aid. To prevent businesses from shifting
production elsewhere to avoid pollution restrictions, the EU
agreed in 2009 to grant 164 manufacturing industries a greater
share than other companies of free CO2 permits under its
emissions trading system after 2012.  Eurofer , a lobby group for the European  steel industry ,
said last month in a letter to lawmakers that EU action to fight
climate change may damage competition and “cost hundreds of
thousands of jobs.”  Raising Ambition  “There are possibilities for state aid to those industries
when we see increases in electricity prices that could harm
their competitiveness internationally,” Runge-Metzger said. He
said he didn’t have a timeline for when a proposal on aid will
be ready.  The EU has made a unilateral pledge to cut emissions by 20
percent from 1990 levels in 2020, and says it may raise that to
30 percent depending on the actions of other major emitters.  The commission said in March that the most cost-effective
scenario for the EU to attain its long-term goal of cutting
 greenhouse gases  from 80 percent to 95 percent in 2050 would be
to reduce emissions domestically by 25 percent in 2020. Member
countries remain divided on a stricter climate-protection goal  Current pledges from all countries aren’t enough to contain
temperature rises since industrialization to 2 degrees Celsius
(3.6 degrees Fahrenheit), and the  International Energy Agency 
said on May 31 that emissions from electricity generation
climbed to a record in 2010.  EU ‘Farce’  Runge-Metzger said that “the most important thing” that
can happen this year is for nations to pass domestic legislation
reflecting the emissions reductions they pledged at the last
ministerial-level UN climate conference in Cancun in December.
Then, at the next meeting in Durban,  South Africa  in December,
delegates will need to examine how to “deal with the gap in the
level of ambition,” he said.  Other priorities for the Durban meeting include fleshing
out rules on monitoring and verifying emissions cuts, deciding
on a governance structure for a so-called Green Fund that will
disburse climate aid, and charting the course for future
negotiations, including potentially setting deadlines for the
completion of a binding deal, Runge-Metzger said.  “There needs to be a perspective on where we are moving
towards,” Runge-Metzger said. The notion of the EU alone taking
on new binding targets under the existing Kyoto Protocol Treaty
is a “farce,” he said. “We don’t think this is a viable
option for a successful outcome in Durban. It’s one of our
conditions. We need others to move forward with us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Bonn at  amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 