-- 
From Strauss-Kahn to Savoy, the French Drag Sex Into Everything

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-06-07T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/from-strauss-kahn-to-guy-savoy-the-french-drag-sex-into-everything-books.html
Just as former International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  awaits trial on
charges of attempted rape and sexual assault, Elaine Sciolino is
publishing “ La Seduction ,” a survey of how the French drag sex
into everything: clothes, scents, meals, conversations,
politics.  Sciolino is a Paris correspondent for the New York Times,
and she has the place figured out. Yet she can’t resist tossing
in the usual cliches, as if to lure Americans for whom, as she
says, “Paris is the city of love and the French are great
lovers.”  From their perspective, it seems, France is a land of
slender woman, suave men and cafes where thinkers smoke and
scribble. The workweek is irresistibly short, the food is
steadily great and life is one big wellspring of bliss.  The reality is much drearier.  France  is the second-most-
profitable market for McDonald’s. Waistlines, especially in the
cement-block suburbs, are as bulky as any. Youth unemployment
runs at 23 percent. And in Sartre’s old cafe, you’ll strain to
spot a French person, let alone a scribe.  The author does administer doses of that reality. Her
analysis -- backed by a rich bibliography -- seldom misses the
mark. It’s just the initial examples that are trite; they seem
appetizers aimed at reeling in the reader.  The germ of this book was sown when Sciolino read a
foreign-ministry speechwriter’s guide to Paris’s best-looking
women, which classified areas by their “feminine specialty,”
recommending places to spot plunging necklines and perfect legs.  Icons of Seduction  Sciolino was stunned that a government official’s
“patently sexist” book should fail to shock. Looking for
insight into France’s culture of seduction, she decided to quiz
two French “icons of the modern world of courtesans (without
the sex part).”  Arielle Dombasle, a mermaid-like actress-singer-dancer,
likens seduction to war, and warns Sciolino never to walk naked
in front of her husband, or he won’t buy lunch. Model-turned-
designer Ines de la Fressange suggests that, for research
purposes, Sciolino -- a married mom -- take a French lover. When
Sciolino shares that kernel of wisdom with her spouse, he tells
her it’s too much information.  Other talking heads offer similarly caricatured quotes. The
intellectual Bernard-Henri Levy recalls how he offended a young
woman in the U.S. by telling her she looked like a “bimbo” and
wishes he’d said “baby doll” instead.  Fashion, Fragrance, Wine  Just as Sciolino seems to be losing the thread, the book
suddenly gets better: meatier, and more to the point.  Fashion, fragrance, wine, and food are all persuasively
shown to be proxies for sex. Chef  Guy Savoy  takes Sciolino into
his mother’s kitchen for real andouille, straight from the oven.  Most substantial of all is the section on seduction and
public life. After a skim through history -- and a mention of
the president who died during an intimate visit from his
mistress at the Elysee Palace in 1899 -- she delivers firsthand
accounts, including a sharp portrayal of  Nicolas Sarkozy .  When they first meet, Sarkozy shifts awkwardly and swallows
a large pill. The next time, he rocks in his armchair, stumbles
on the word “multilateralism” and says she’s “raising burning
issues in a perfectly banal way.” The man is unliked, she
writes, because he is unseductive.  In her last book, “ Persian Mirrors: The Elusive Face of
Iran ,” Sciolino showed a knack for understanding perplexing
places. As an Iranian who lived in France for 18 years, I know
both countries reasonably well, and to my mind, she nails them
both. If only “La Seduction” had more from the Elysee insider
and less from the wide-eyed outsider.  “La Seduction: How the French Play the Game of Life” is
published by  Times Books  (338 pages, $27). To buy this book in
 North America , click  here .  (Farah Nayeri is a writer for Muse, the arts & leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in  London  at  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 