-- 
Gates Sets Last Talks With NATO and Russia on War, Shield

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-07T16:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/gates-sets-last-talks-with-nato-russia-on-war-missile-shield.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
arrived in Brussels for his final meetings with NATO and Russian
counterparts before leaving office this month, as the alliance
considers its next steps on Afghanistan,  Libya  and missile
defense.  The stop at North Atlantic Treaty Organization headquarters
today is the last for Gates, who will step down after 4 1/2
years as defense secretary. The  U.S. Senate  will hold a
confirmation hearing this week for President Barack Obama’s
nominee to succeed Gates, Central Intelligence Agency Director
Leon Panetta.  Gates and Obama are awaiting recommendations from the
Afghan war’s top commander, Army General David Petraeus, to
begin a promised drawdown of U.S. forces in July. The U.S. is
fighting the Taliban alongside European and other partners in a
48-nation coalition.  “We have to weigh the impact, potentially, on our allies
of what we decide,” Gates told reporters. “We certainly don’t
want to precipitate a rush for the exits by our partners.”  The NATO meetings give Gates a last opportunity in office
to reinforce his years-long call for European allies to bolster
their defense spending and pull more of the weight in the
alliance. The U.S. has provided two-thirds of the almost 150,000
troops for the alliance-led war in  Afghanistan , and European
nations have had to resupply their stocks of ammunition for the
Libya operation with purchases from the Pentagon.  Muammar Qaddafi   In the 10-week Libya operation, alliance forces have been
exerting greater pressure on forces of Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi as rebels seek to oust him from power.  NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen signaled
yesterday that Qaddafi’s days in power after ruling Libya for 42
years were numbered. He urged world leaders to begin planning
for the regime’s downfall and the risks associated with it.  Gates resisted U.S. involvement in Libya at first, arguing
that it wasn’t a critical national priority while U.S. forces
were stretched in Afghanistan,  Iraq  and humanitarian relief
efforts after  Japan ’s earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis. He
has pressed for others in NATO to take the lead, in part because
European nations have more of a stake in the North African
nation.  “We’ve got a lot of commitments around the world,” Gates
told U.S. troops in Task Force Ramrod in Afghanistan’s Ghazni
Province. “This is one where our allies have the capability to
take the lead, and I think that’s just right.”  No-Fly Zone  In addition to helping enforce the no-fly zone and arms
embargo, the U.S. has sold its allies and partners in the
operation about $24.3 million of repair parts, ammunition and
technical support for the campaign as of May 25, according to
the Pentagon.  The NATO defense ministers’ agenda for the next two days
includes discussions of relations with  Russia . Leaders in Moscow
have resisted a NATO plan to deploy a system of radar and
missile interceptors around  Europe  to defend against potential
adversaries such as  Iran .  Gates is to hold talks tomorrow with Russian Defense
Minister Anatoly Serdyukov and attend a meeting of the NATO-
Russia Council. Russia has threatened to withdraw from a
strategic nuclear arms agreement ratified months ago by both
countries’ lawmakers if the two sides don’t reach agreement on
the U.S. missile defense plan.  Military Deterrence  The U.S. won NATO backing last year for the system, which
Russian leaders say could blunt the effectiveness of their
military deterrence.  Gates arrived in Brussels after a four-day farewell visit
to U.S. troops in Afghanistan. He said withdrawing too soon
would halt the coalition’s gains against the Taliban as forces
were increased last year, and may give other nations an excuse
to accelerate their own exit from the war.  The Sept. 11, 2001, al-Qaeda terror attacks on the U.S.
prompted NATO to invoke, for the first time, its policy that an
attack on one member is considered an attack on all requiring a
joint response to the threat of al-Qaeda, which had a haven in
Afghanistan.  Obama and other NATO heads of state agreed in Lisbon,
 Portugal , in November to set a target of 2014 for handing over
security control nationwide to Afghan security forces. Gates
said some coalition troops may remain after that for training
and support.  “I would expect that our presence here after that time
would be a small fraction of what it is today and not really in
a combat mission,” Gates told U.S. troops at Forward Operating
Base Shank in Afghanistan’s eastern Logar Province yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Brussels at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  