-- 
GE, Capital One Said to Vie for ING Online Bank; Bids May Reach $9 Billion

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r ,   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-07T20:12:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/ge-capital-one-said-to-vie-for-ing-online-bank-bids-may-reach-9-billion.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  submitted bids for  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s U.S. online
bank last week in a sale that may raise about $9 billion, said
people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The Dutch lender may reach an agreement to sell the ING
Direct USA unit as soon as this month, said the people, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are private.
GE made an all-cash bid, while the offer from McLean, Virginia-
based Capital One includes some stock, the people said.  A buyer would gain control of the largest U.S. online bank
and its $81.6 billion of deposits, which give lenders a funding
base that is cheaper than offering debt. The purchaser would
also have to contend with the bank’s $40.5 billion of  mortgage
loans  and $19.9 billion of mortgage-backed securities, based on
the latest figures from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  “I’m hard-pressed to understand what the strategic
rationale is” for Capital One to bid, because a non-bank lender
that needs to expand deposits would be a more logical acquirer,
said  Michael Taiano , a Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP analyst in
New York. “GE makes more sense.”  ING gained 80 cents to 8.14 euros in Amsterdam. GE rose 2
cents to $18.48 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading and Capital One fell 57 cents, or 1.1 percent, to
$50.16. Taiano rates Capital One as hold and doesn’t cover GE.  Other Suitors  Capital One and Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE may not be
the only companies currently in negotiations with ING, the
people said. Some potential buyers or merger partners that have
held discussions with ING, including Ally Financial Inc.,  CIT
Group Inc. (CIT)  and SJB National Bank, have either ended talks or put
them on hold, the people said.  “The process to prepare a divestment of ING Direct USA is
continuing,” Raymond Vermeulen, a spokesman for Amsterdam-based
ING, said by telephone. He declined to comment on any potential
bidders or the value.  Spokesmen for Ally, CIT, SJB, GE and Capital One declined
to comment.  GE is seeking to avoid acquiring most of ING Direct’s
mortgage assets and is in talks with partners that would buy
them as part of a deal, the people said. Buyers could include
investment banks that trade mortgages, or pension or hedge funds
that invest in them, they said.  Deposit Growth  The  GE Capital  unit, which issues bonds to fund services
such as credit-card lending and leasing, could reduce its
reliance on debt markets with the acquisition. Deposits tied to
GE Capital’s two bank subsidiaries grew to $39.4 billion as of
March 31 from $9.8 billion in 2006. The  Federal Reserve  plans to
begin regulating GE Capital later this year.  Capital One’s bid, if successful, would leave ING as one of
the credit-card company’s biggest shareholders, the people said.
While Capital One’s status as a bank might make it easier to win
approval from U.S. authorities, it isn’t clear whether ING and
its regulators would be as supportive of a stock-funded bid
compared with an all-cash offer, the people said.  ING is one of at least three big foreign banks that are
looking to exit parts of their U.S. business this year. Royal
Bank of Canada is seeking a buyer for its U.S. retail branch
network, people with knowledge of the matter said in April,
while HSBC Holdings Plc seeks to shed its upstate  New York 
operations, people familiar with that effort said last month.  European Regulators  The European Union is requiring ING to sell the U.S. unit
by 2013 as a condition of a 10 billion euro ($14.7 billion)
government bailout. ING is also divesting its insurance units to
comply with the terms.  “Getting the ING Direct USA sale off their plate will free
up management time for the other tasks at hand,” said Robin van den Broek, an  ABN Amro  analyst in Amsterdam. ABN Amro, which has
a “buy” rating on ING’s stock, estimates the unit may fetch as
much as $10.2 billion.  A sale of ING Direct USA may also require ING to shift a
pool of Alt-A mortgage assets. Those assets, mostly held in ING
Direct USA, were part of ING’s bailout, when the Dutch
government agreed to assume 80 percent of the risk of the
portfolio.  ING may move the Alt-A assets to the parent company as part
of a sale of the U.S. online bank, Chief Risk Officer Koos Timmermans said on a conference call last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  