-- 
GE Wins First Solar-Gas Hybrid Plant From Turkey’s MetCap

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   C h r i s   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-06-07T17:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/ge-chosen-by-metcap-for-combined-cycle-power-plant-s-technology.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  said its new
turbine designed to pair gas and renewable-power generation was
chosen by Turkey’s MetCap Energy Investments for the first
combination solar-natural gas plant.  The site will use technology from closely held eSolar Inc.,
wind and the “FlexEfficiency” gas turbine GE announced last
week. The combination will be able to operate at a fuel-
efficiency rate of more than 70 percent, greater than the rate
of 61 percent for the combined-cycle turbine alone, GE said. It
also makes solar more cost-efficient.  “This will be a power plant that combines wind, natural
gas and integrated combined technology under one roof,” Paul Browning, who runs thermal products at GE Energy, the world’s
biggest maker of power-generation equipment, said at a Milan
press conference.  The plant, to be located in Karaman,  Turkey , will have a
capacity of about 530 megawatts, enough to power more than
600,000 homes, MetCap Chairman Celal Metin said at the
conference.  “We have worked with every single party in industry who
has something to offer in state-of-art, in gas turbines, steam
turbines, solar sites and wind,” Metin said. “We did not give
it to them. They earned it.”  Gas, Steam, Wind  The plant will integrate GE’s 9FB gas turbine, which has a
capacity of 510 megawatts and a frequency of 50 hertz; a steam
turbine; a generator; GE wind-turbine power; and power from
eSolar-concentrated thermal tower technology, according to a
statement from the companies.  “Solar-thermal with combined-cycle power plant are the
most economic there is,” Browning said in an interview. He said
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE expects more order announcements
in the “weeks and months ahead.”  Under a license agreement, eSolar’s projects will be
transferred to  GE Energy  and become part of the integrated
solar, combined-cycle effort, Chief Executive Officer John Van Scoter said in an interview.  GE’s investment combined with an $11 million U.S.
Department of Energy solar-storage grant put Burbank,
California-based eSolar in a “very good position financially”
to become  cash flow  positive, he said.  Competition Ahead?  GE Energy, based in Atlanta, competes with companies
including  Germany ’s  Siemens AG. (SIE)  Siemens last year said its H-
class combined-cycle turbine combination set a world record at
60.75 percent efficiency grade. Browning said he expects
competition.  “My long experience is that when GE goes somewhere, others
follow,” Browning said. “It wouldn’t surprise me at all if we
see movement in this direction by others in our industry.”  China ’s Harbin Electric, the parent of Harbin Power
Equipment Co., will buy four 9FB gas turbines from GE by the end
of 2013, with two that incorporate the newest technology, GE
said last week.  GE CEO  Jeffrey Immelt  said last month that sales of energy-
efficient equipment, including gas turbines, will accelerate in
2011’s second half, helping to lead profit growth into 2012.  The new turbine’s debut follows about $11 billion in energy
purchases since October including Dresser Inc., a maker of oil-
field gear, and the well-support division of John Wood Group
Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  