-- 
Portuguese Two-Year Notes Fall on Debt-Crisis Concern; German Bunds Drop

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-06-07T15:18:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/german-ten-year-bund-yields-approach-five-month-low-as-stock-futures-fall.html
Portuguese and Irish 10-year bonds
fell amid concern over the ability of euro-region policy makers
to stem the 17-nation bloc’s debt crisis and stave off a
sovereign default.  Ten-year German bunds declined as stocks rose. Portugal’s
10-year yields rose to a record as investors awaited the
formation of a coalition government. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the region will overcome its fiscal troubles, while
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled he
may support a plan for rolling over Greek debt.  “The market still thinks the whole situation is a mess and
still thinks some kind of restructuring in Greece is
unavoidable,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in  London . “What everyone needs
is action and growth. The new  Portuguese government  will have to
enact an even more stringent austerity plan.”  Portuguese 10-year yields gained 23 basis points to a
record 9.97 percent as of 4:03 p.m. in London. The 3.85 percent
security due in April 2021 fell 1.075, or 10.75 euros per 1,000-
euro ($1,463) face amount, to 62.69. The nation’s two-year note
yields advanced 11 basis points to 10.90 percent.  Irish 10-year yields climbed 10 basis points to 10.77
percent, while similar-maturity Greek yields added two basis
points to 15.86 percent.  Private Sector  Greece  is set to receive the next installment of aid from
the European Union and International Monetary Fund bailout plan
and may also receive additional aid in a deal that Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said included a “voluntary”
role for investors.  While Trichet said he’s against imposing losses on
creditors, he indicated he’d approve of financial institutions
maintaining their level of outstanding credit. “That is not a
default,” he said at an event in Montreal late yesterday.
“That is something the ECB would consider appropriate.”  The ECB is considering a rollover of bonds as an
alternative means of easing Greece’s funding squeeze, two
officials familiar with the matter said last week on condition
of anonymity.  “Trichet’s comments were the first hint from him that he
could also imagine that the private sector helps out in a very
muted way,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at
Commerzbank AG in London. “It’s a shift from his previous
standpoints.”  The  European Central Bank  meets on June 9 and is forecast
to leave its benchmark rate at 1.25 percent, according to all 52
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The Frankfurt-based central
bank, led by Trichet, may increase borrowing costs by 25 basis
points in July, a separate survey showed.  Retail Sales  The 10-year bund yield climbed four basis points to 3.06
percent. It slid to 2.96 percent on June 3, the lowest since
Jan. 12. The yield on German two-year notes was little changed
at 1.67 percent.  Euro-area retail sales jumped 0.9 percent from March, when
they dropped 0.9 percent, Eurostat, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg, said today. That’s the biggest
gain since March 2010 and compares with the 0.3 percent median
estimate of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index advanced 0.2 percent.  Merkel told President Barack Obama the euro region will
“emerge strengthened” from the crisis, Steffen Seibert, the
chancellor’s chief spokesman, said after the leaders met in
 Washington  yesterday. The pair discussed the topic over dinner,
including steps Europe is taking to combat the crisis, Seibert
said in an interview on Germany’s ARD television.  Coalition Talks  Pedro Passos Coelho , Portugal’s incoming prime minister,
was told by President Anibal Cavaco Silva to start talks
immediately on forging a coalition to ensure austerity measures
mandated by a 78 billion-euro bailout stay on track.  The new government “should be seen as good news and the
fact that the yield is going up means that the market is
questioning it,”  Steven Major , global head of fixed income
research at HSBC Holdings Plc said on Bloomberg Television’s
“On the Move” with  Francine Lacqua . “The market is just
concerned about what the first actions will be of this new
government.”  Austria sold 880 million euros of bonds maturing in 2022 at
an average yield of 3.48 percent and the same amount of debt due
in 2037 at 4.01 percent.  German  government bonds  have returned investors less than 1
percent this year while U.S. Treasuries have gained 3 percent,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Greek bonds have
lost 11 percent and  Portugal ’s have handed investors a 14
percent drop in value, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net 
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  