-- 
German Manufacturing Orders Rebound on Higher Demand for Investment Goods

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-06-07T10:30:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/german-manufacturing-orders-rebound-in-april-on-investment-goods.html
Factory orders in  Germany ,  Europe ’s
largest economy, rebounded in April from a slump in the previous
month, led by stronger demand for investment goods.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, rose
2.8 percent from March, when they plunged a revised 2.7 percent,
the Economy Ministry in Berlin said in a statement today.
Economists had forecast a gain of 2 percent, according to the
median of 37 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. In the year,
orders rose 10.5 percent, when adjusted for work days.  Germany’s recovery is broadening as companies boost
investment and hiring to meet booming export demand from
emerging  Asia , even as surging energy prices are sapping
households’ spending power and countries including Greece
toughen austerity measures. While first-quarter growth was
probably “overstated,” the economy is in a “good condition,”
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said on May 23.  “Clearly, there is no reason for the German industry to
grumble,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in
Brussels. “Production is firing on all cylinders and richly
filled order books give little cause for serious concerns. With
an increasing lack of highly-skilled workers and production
bottlenecks, German companies are facing a luxury problem of too
many rather than too few orders.”  Railway Orders  The share of big-ticket items was “above average” and the
order intake remained positive in the three months through
April, even though momentum “flattened somewhat,” the ministry
said today. It had previously reported an order slump of 4
percent for March.  “In April, we saw the largest bulk order in Germany’s
railway history,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at
Dekabank in Frankfurt. “That probably boosted the increase in
orders. Before long, we’ll fall back to a more normal speed of
expansion but that certainly won’t be a tragedy.”  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, secured
an order from Deutsche Bahn AG for up to 300 trains, the
companies said on May 9. The potential order volume for the
first 220 trains totals about 6 billion euros ($8.8 billion).  Orders of investment goods jumped 4.9 percent in April from
a month earlier and demand for  consumer goods  rose 3.6 percent,
while orders of intermediate goods dropped 0.3 percent, today’s
report showed. Foreign demand increased 3.4 percent and domestic
orders gained 2.1 percent from March.  Powering Expansion  Germany is powering the euro region’s expansion. German
gross domestic product may rise 2.6 percent this year, after
record growth of 3.6 percent in 2010, the European Commission
said on May 13. In the euro area, GDP will increase 1.6 percent,
with Greece and Portugal contracting, it said.  The German economy may struggle to gather strength after
expanding at the fastest pace in almost a year in the first
quarter. While unemployment fell in May for a 23rd straight
month, pushing the jobless rate to 7 percent, and business
confidence held steady in May, investor sentiment declined.
Manufacturing growth also weakened last month.  “Growth is likely to ease somewhat in the foreseeable
future,” the Frankfurt-based Bundesbank said in its monthly
report on May 20. “Output growth was clearly lifted during the
reporting period by backloading and catching-up effects.”  Companies have relied on faster-growing economies as
European governments cut spending to fight the region’s fiscal
crisis.  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest chemical company, will draw
most of its growth from Asia in coming years, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Brudermueller  said on May 26.  Price Pressures  Crude  oil prices  have jumped 8.5 percent this year, adding
pressure on companies to raise prices. Inflation has breached
the  European Central Bank ’s limit in every month since December,
prompting policy makers to raise  interest rates  for the first
time in almost three years in April. Officials meeting in
Frankfurt on June 9 will probably keep the benchmark at 1.25
percent, a Bloomberg survey shows.  “Companies are increasingly suffering from commodity
price-driven inflation and are becoming increasingly willing to
pass on costs,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “In Germany, the recovery is
providing some room to do that. The backlog of orders is still
very high, which suggests that industrial production will
continue to rise robustly in the coming months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  