-- 
Ghana Targets Cedi Strengthening of 5% This Year, Narh Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-06-07T15:57:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/ghana-targets-cedi-strengthening-of-5-this-year-central-bank-s-narh-says.html
Ghana ’s central bank is targeting an
appreciation of 5 percent for the nation’s currency this year
and will be able to sustain inflation of about 9 percent, Deputy
Governor Millison Narh said.  A 5 percent strengthening in the cedi is a “consistent
end-of-year target,” he told reporters in London today. He
didn’t specify which currency he uses as a benchmark. The
currency of the world’s second-biggest cocoa producer after
 Ivory Coast  has declined 2.1 percent against the dollar this
year, and was 0.6 percent down at 1.5165 by 3:04 p.m. in Accra.  The increase in oil revenue in the second half of the year
“would be enough to drive that level of appreciation,”  David Cowan , a London-based Africa economist at Citigroup Inc., said
by phone today. “They are aware of the dangers of excess
appreciation, especially at the time when you’re running into
elections in December 2012 and cocoa farmers are the ones who
would be most negatively affected by an exchange-rate
appreciation.”  The central bank lowered its benchmark rate to 13 percent
from 13.5 percent on May 13, as inflation slowed to 9 percent in
April from 9.1 percent the month before. Jubilee, Ghana’s first
oil field, is currently producing around 70,000 barrels of crude
a day, according to the U.K.-based operator Tullow Oil Plc.  Ghana is able to sustain an inflation rate of about 9
percent this year as the West African nation enters its
harvesting season, which will keep food prices low, Narh said.  “We are entering the harvest season in May, June and
July,” he said. If “food costs stay down in abundance it
drives down inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in  London  at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  