-- 
Glaxo’s Advair Faces Sales Decline on Swedish Generic Approval

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-06-07T14:47:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/glaxo-s-advair-faces-sales-decline-on-swedish-generic-approval.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the U.K.’s
biggest drugmaker, may lose sales from its top-selling Advair
asthma treatment following approval of a copycat version of the
drug in  Sweden , analysts including Dominic Valder at Evolution
Securities said.  Swedish regulators last month  approved  a generic version of
salmeterol and fluticasone, Advair’s two components, produced by
 Greece ’s  Elpen Pharmaceutical Co. Inc. , Sofia Grypaiou, a
regulatory affairs official at consulting firm  PharOS , said in a
phone interview today. Athens-based PharOS handled the filing,
she said, declining to elaborate further.  Although Advair and the Elpen product use different
devices, the approval paves the way for generic versions of
Advair in Europe, including “a more compelling product” by
Vectura Group Plc. and Novartis AG’s Sandoz unit, according to
London-based Evolution analyst Valder, who has a “buy”
recommendation on Glaxo shares.  The Swedish decision “does remind us that competition to
Advair is coming,” Valder wrote in a note to clients published
today. He forecasts a 25 percent decline in Advair sales in
 Europe  for 2012, the same year he expects Vectura and Novartis
to start selling their versions.  Advair, known as Seretide in Europe, garnered 1.6 billion
pounds ($2.6 billion) in sales for Glaxo in the region last
year, according to a Feb. 3 statement.  Seretide is a “substantially different” product, David
Daley, a spokesman for London-based Glaxo, said in an e-mailed
statement late yesterday. “The products would not be fully
substitutable throughout the EU.”  Officials at Elpen didn’t immediately return phone calls
and an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  