-- 
GM Failure to Match Ford Profit Means Investors Doubting

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-06-07T20:15:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/gm-failure-to-match-ford-profit-means-investors-doubting-cars.html
At  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s first annual
meeting since going public again, Dan Akerson can talk up
market-share gains and profit that old GM hadn’t seen in a
decade. What he can’t do is take a victory lap.  GM is trading 13 percent below its $33 price when Chief
Executive Officer Akerson led the initial public offering in
November. He has yet to show investors that Detroit-based GM has
the operating efficiency or future product plan to match the
profits of  Ford Motor Co. (F) , which made 36 percent more money in
the first quarter, excluding one-time items.  Excitement around the IPO led the automaker and the  U.S.
Treasury , its biggest investor, to expand the sale to $15.8
billion in common equity plus preferred stock. Since then, GM
has tumbled and investors are waiting to see a plan to match
Ford’s profit or even buy out the government’s stake, said Peter Nesvold, a Jefferies & Co. analyst.  “It’s surprising,” Nesvold said of the sinking stock
price. “They kept the company together and brought it a long
way, but investors haven’t really bought into the story that
it’s a new GM.”  GM executives have discussed buying back shares from the
Treasury Department, people familiar with the matter have said.
The Treasury Department is reluctant to sell because the share
price is low and because the political perception would be that
GM is getting a preferential deal, one of the people said.  No Victory Lap  While Akerson said GM has more to do to improve operations,
he also said that GM’s stock has not suffered any more than
other carmakers.  “No one is doing a victory lap,” Akerson said. “The
stock has performed on the same order of magnitude as our
primary competitors. No one said this was going to be a layup.”  GM may earn adjusted net income of $7.72 billion this year,
the average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Profit on an adjusted basis may rise to $9.55 billion in 2012,
according to 10 estimates.  Akerson told reporters in a briefing before the meeting
that he is concerned about the pace of economic recovery.  “There is some concern about a jobless recovery,” Akerson
said. “There’s some question about how strong this recovery
will be.”  GM may not be able to generate much investor interest until
the economic recovery gains more traction or until the company
puts up a few more quarters of solid numbers, said David Whiston, an analyst with Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago . In the
first quarter, Ford made $2.55 billion while GM made $1.88
billion not including one-time gains for asset sales.  Government Stake  The government owns 33 percent of GM and would like to sell
some of its stock this year, said three people familiar with the
matter. The government wants to sell for at least the $33
initial public offering price and needs a catalyst to get it
there, the people said.  The Treasury Department may sell late summer or early fall.
If the stock does not rise to an acceptable price, Treasury may
not sell in this year, one of the people said.  GM rose 22 cents to $28.78 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  GM’s shortcomings are highlighted in comparison to Ford,
where CEO  Alan Mulally  kept his management team together and
avoided bankruptcy. GM earns less in  North America  and  Europe 
than Ford, which also has a large and profitable credit arm that
is expected to deliver $2 billion in cash dividends to the
parent company this year, Nesvold said.  Ford’s Slip  While Ford’s shares have slipped more since GM’s IPO, its
stock still trades at a higher valuation. GM’s stock trades at
5.5 times its earnings while Ford trades at 6.9 times earnings,
according to Bloomberg data. Ford’s market capitalization is
$52.8 billion and GM’s is $44.6 billion.  Ford is making more money in North America, even though GM
has higher sales volumes and a cost advantage. In the first
quarter, Ford made $1.8 billion in pretax operating profit in
its home continent, compared with $1.3 billion for GM.  One problem for GM is pricing. In the first quarter, GM led
the industry in spending on discounts, which reduced profit by
$300 million. Meanwhile, Ford raised prices on its cars, which
added $700 million in pretax profit.  “That’s a $1 billion difference,” Whiston said. “I’ll be
watching to see if GM’s pricing gets better in the second
quarter.”  Price Gap  After incentives, the Ford Fusion sells for $22,276, which
is $1,342 more than the competing Chevrolet Malibu, and the Ford
F-Series pickups sell for an average price of $30,898, which is
$1,947 more than a Chevy Silverado, according to Edmunds.com, a
consumer-research website based in  Santa Monica ,  California .  In Europe, GM broke even in the first quarter, excluding a
goodwill impairment charge, while Ford made $293 million in
operating profit in the market.  Even in  South America , where GM is the market leader, Ford
made more money. The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker earned
$210 million, more than double GM’s $100 million in first-
quarter pretax profit there. GM’s 20 percent of the market more
than doubles Ford’s 9.4 percent, according to researcher IHS
Automotive.  Akerson said GM will push for more growth using two global
brands, Chevrolet and Cadillac. He said GM will start pushing
the Cadillac brand internationally and will produce more of its
cars overseas starting next year.  “You’ll see model expansion in Cadillac,” Akerson said.
“We’ll flank our two global brands with regional brands.”  Finance Company  GM’s other disadvantage is in auto finance. Ford Credit
earned $713 million in the first quarter compared with GM
Financial’s $130 million. GM is rapidly expanding the operation
and later this year will move into wholesale lending, which is
extended credit to dealers so they can buy inventory, GM
Financial CEO Dan Berce said in a June 1 interview.  The in-house lending unit would also consider starting an
insurance unit to sell products to GM’s car buyers, he said. The
company may also make acquisitions to expand lending operations
overseas, Berce said.  Improvements in the global economy that boost consumers’
confidence and willingness to spend on durable goods may help GM
improve its profit and stock price, said  Kirk Ludtke , senior
vice president of CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  “GM’s numbers have been underwhelming, but GM is a cheaper
stock than Ford,” he said. “If the economy comes back, the
stock could really take off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in  Detroit  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  