-- 
Gold May Rise as Slowing U.S. Economy, Weaker Dollar Fuel Investor Demand

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-07T12:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/gold-may-advance-as-greek-debt-crisis-u-s-data-increases-investor-demand.html
Gold may gain for a third day in New
York as concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis, signs that the  U.S.
economy  is slowing and a weakening dollar spurs demand for the
metal as an alternative investment. Palladium climbed.  U.S. payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months in
May and manufacturing expanded at its slowest pace in more than
a year, reports showed last week. The European Union needs to
reach an accord on Greece’s debts before finance ministers meet
on June 20, EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said yesterday. The dollar slid to a one-month low against
six currencies. Gold typically moves counter to the greenback.  “Speculation U.S. economic growth is losing pace and the
Greek debt crisis is worsening” is supporting gold,  John Meyer ,
an analyst at Fairfax IS in  London , wrote in a report today.
“The dollar is off this morning, helping support prices as they
push toward the record.”  Gold for August delivery fell 40 cents to $1,546.80 an
ounce by 7:59 a.m. on the Comex in New York. It yesterday
reached $1,555, the highest price since May 2. Immediate-
delivery gold was 0.1 percent higher at $1,546.05 in London.  Concern about faster inflation, Europe’s debt crisis, a
weakening dollar and fighting in Libya boosted gold to a record
$1,577.40 on May 2. Prices are up 8.8 percent in 2011 after
climbing the past 10 years, the longest run of gains in at least
nine decades in London. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
is scheduled to speak today at the International Monetary
Conference in Atlanta as the bank’s second round of bond buying,
called quantitative easing or QE2, ends this month.  Debt Crisis  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled for the first time he may support encouraging investors
to buy new Greek bonds to replace maturing securities as
officials seek to stem the nation’s debt crisis. ECB policy
makers have opposed any measure that could be classed as a
default to avoid what Rehn described yesterday as a “Lehman
Brothers catastrophe.”  “The market’s still very sensitive to what’s happening in
Greece and Europe, and at the same time sensitive to U.S.
data,”  Darren Heathcote , head of trading at Investec Bank
(Australia) Ltd., said by phone. “There doesn’t seem to be many
reasons to be selling gold at this present moment.”  Gold Fund  China  Universal Asset Management Co. received approval from
the nation’s financial-market regulator to start a fund that
will invest holdings in overseas exchange-traded products backed
by precious metals. Liu Ming, a spokesperson for China
Universal, didn’t give details of when the fund would start
raising money, nor how the extent of the holdings in each metal
will be set.  “All the market participants we met with in China last
week expect a slowdown in physical demand before buying picks up
again in September,”  Edel Tully , a London-based analyst at UBS
AG said today in a report. While there may be “summer
headwinds” for gold, “this would be viewed by most as a short-
term correction within a bullish market. It’s very difficult to
leave  Asia , and in particular China, without feeling bullish
about gold.”  Silver for July delivery rose 1.4 percent to $37.285 an
ounce in  New York . Palladium for September delivery climbed as
much as 1.6 percent to a three-month high of $811.80 an ounce
and was last at $806. Platinum for July delivery was 0.1 percent
higher at $1,823.40 an ounce.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  