-- 
Google Reports on Hacker Attacks ‘Defamed’ China, People’s Daily Reports

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-06-07T02:12:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/google-reports-on-hacker-attacks-defamed-china-people-s-daily-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s reports that Chinese
hackers may have organized attacks on U.S. and Asian government
officials using the company’s Gmail service “defamed  China ,”
the official People’s Daily said in an editorial.  Google was “strongly insinuating” without evidence that
the Chinese government directed the alleged cyber attacks, the
editorial said. The U.S. company’s accusations were “very
serious” and reinforced the “western world’s negative
perceptions of China,” according to the Chinese Communist
Party-affiliated newspaper.  Internet hackers tried to steal passwords from hundreds of
users of Google’s Gmail e-mail service, targeting the accounts
of government officials in the U.S. and Asia, the Mountain View,
California-based company said last week. The campaign, based on
a so-called phishing scam, appeared to have originated in the
Chinese city of Jinan, according to Google, which didn’t say who
was responsible for the attacks.  Jessica Powell , a Google spokeswoman in  Tokyo , didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mail and message left on her mobile
phone seeking comment.  Blaming China for the hacking of Google’s customer accounts
is “unacceptable,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said on
June 2. The government “disapproves” of hacking activities,
and punishes them, he said.  “Google should not be embroiled in international political
conflicts, and be used as a political tool,” the People’s Daily
editorial said. Google’s accusations risk exacerbating tensions
between China and the U.S. on Internet safety, it said.  In January 2010, Google said it was targeted by “highly
sophisticated” attacks from inside China aimed at obtaining
proprietary information, as well as personal data belonging to
human-rights activists who use the Gmail service, prompting the
company to pull its search-engine operations out of the country.
In March this year, Google accused the Chinese government of
blocking Gmail.  “This is not the first time Google has libeled China,”
the People’s Daily editorial said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  