-- 
Google, France Telecom Said to Weigh Network Traffic Pact

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-06-08T10:11:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/google-france-telecom-said-to-weigh-data-network-traffic-pact.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE)  are
in discussions that may lead to an agreement to work together on
reducing the impact of data traffic on telecommunications
networks, according to two people familiar with the situation.  The talks concern the fixed-line and mobile-phone networks
operated by France’s largest phone company, and an accord would
probably focus on technological cooperation and research rather
than financial compensation from Google, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.  France Telecom  is among European telecom operators seeking
a new deal with Internet companies including Google and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , which they say are overloading networks without
contributing enough to their upkeep. The quantity of mobile-data
traffic in Paris is growing by 5 percent every week, driven by
videos like those on Google’s YouTube, according to France
Telecom Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard.  “You hear the content industry say they struggle to make
money with piracy and so on, while we have challenges with the
investment requirements versus the revenues,” Richard Feasey,
public policy director of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s
biggest mobile-phone operator, said in an interview in Athens
last week. “Everybody faces a challenge in the long run.”  Storing Content  Officials at Mountain View, California-based Google and
Paris-based France Telecom declined to comment.  Even though telecom operators’ first choice is direct
payments by content providers, network congestion can be reduced
with new technologies. Such stopgaps include storing more
content on mobile devices, rather than sending it over wireless
networks, and finding segments of radio spectrum that are
underused by current equipment.  The number of mobile data connections in western  Europe 
will rise by an average of 15 percent a year to 270 million in
2014, as overall end-user revenue falls by about 1 percent
annually, research firm IDC estimated last year.  Google Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt  told the e-G8 Forum
in Paris last month that operators and content companies are
“incredibly co-dependent” and that technological solutions to
help spread out data demand are one solution operators and
content companies can pursue.  Foot-dragging on finding a solution to the network traffic
issue may create a situation where governments feel compelled to
step in. French officials including President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
who hosted the e-G8 conference, and Industry Minister Eric
Besson have told Web companies to remember the value of network
investments.  Imbalances  While technology co-operation “is a step in the right
direction of the telecom world working with the Web world,”
imbalances between revenues and investment remain that may only
be addressed with new regulation, Paolo Pescatore, an analyst at
CCS Insight in London, said by phone.  France Telecom slipped 0.1 percent to 15.29 euros in Paris
trading as of 12:08 p.m. Google yesterday declined 0.4 percent
to $519.03 in  New York  on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Former state monopolies including France Telecom,  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT) ,  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  are trying to
convince investors that they are more than conduits of other
companies’ electronic commerce.  Video Conferencing  Deutsche Telekom plans to introduce various levels of
connection quality to manage the surge in data traffic and
enable high-bandwidth services such as video conferences and
tele-medicine, spokesman Philipp Blank said today. The Bonn-
based company is also tripling the capacity of ports that
connect its network with that of Google over the coming weeks to
eliminate a bottleneck that slows down the Youtube service.  The operators, who lost the battle for online application
stores to Apple and Google, are scrambling for the lead in
offering services like near field communication payment systems,
which will let people buy everything from milk and butter to
clothes with a swipe of their smartphone.  “Google’s massive, but Google does not have a billing
relationship with 99 percent of its customers,” giving
operators an edge in the move to secure mobile payments,
Deutsche Telekom Chief Technology and Innovation Officer Ed Kozel said in an interview in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.netvroot @bloomberg.net;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  