-- 
Cyber Cops Stymied by Anonymity in Tracking Google, Sony Hacks

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y ,   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-06-07T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/google-sony-nintendo-hacker-anonymity-stymies-arrests-by-u-s-cyber-cops.html
Hardly a month has gone by this year
without a multinational company such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) , EMC Corp.
or  Sony Corp. (6758)  disclosing it’s been hacked by cyber intruders who
infiltrated networks or stole customer information. Yet no
hacker has been publicly identified, charged or arrested.  If past enforcement efforts are an indication, most of the
perpetrators will never be prosecuted or punished.  “I don’t have a high level of confidence that they will be
brought to justice,” said Peter George, chief executive of
Fidelis Security Systems Inc., a Bethesda, Maryland-based data
protection consulting firm whose clients include  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the U.S. Army and the  Department of
Commerce . “The government is doing what they can, but they need
to do a lot more.”  In the U.S., the FBI, the Secret Service and other law
enforcement agencies are confronting what amounts to a massive
crime wave that’s highly organized and hard to combat with
traditional methods. The hacker organizations are well-funded
and global, eluding arrest except in the rarest of cases.  Attacks are coming from organized crime groups based in
Eastern  Europe  and  Russia , from industrial spies in  China  and
from groups such as LulzSec, whose members appear to reside
mostly in the U.S. and Europe and seem more interested in
publicity than in making a profit from their crimes.  LulzSec took credit for hacking into Nintendo Co.’s
computers, an intrusion the Kyoto, Japan-based company disclosed
June 5, describing it as unsuccessful. Last week it was Google,
which revealed an attempted hack, originating in China, into the
Gmail accounts of U.S. government officials, military personnel
and journalists. Days before that, it was military contractor
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , which said its network had been
penetrated by an unknown intruder.  InfraGard Attack  LulzSec said June 3 it also had attacked the Atlanta
chapter of  InfraGard , an information-sharing organization of
companies that is affiliated with the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  to thwart cyber crime.  “We are facing a very innovative crime, and innovation has
to be the response,” Gordon Snow, FBI assistant director of the
cyber division, said in an interview at the agency’s Washington
headquarters last week, before news of the InfraGard breach
broke. “Given enough money, time and resources, an adversary
will be able to access any system. Companies need to understand
that.”  Pablo Martinez, who heads up cybercrime efforts at the
 Secret Service , compared the current challenge to early efforts
the U.S. made to combat drug cartels in the 1980s.  Drug Tactics  “What the Secret Service has to do is take the successful
model that we introduced in  South America  to defeat some of that
stuff and incorporate it in what we do in cyber,” he said.  That would require substantial international law
enforcement cooperation and intelligence sharing, said Martinez,
whose agency has jurisdiction over bank cyber crime.  In the meantime, the attacks are taking a rising toll on
companies and even government agencies, raising concerns about
whether the FBI and other enforcement units can handle what
appears to be an increasing surge of cyber-criminal conduct,
dating back almost two years.  In late 2009, hackers breached the secure  computer networks 
of  Mountain View , California-based Google and at least 20 other
major U.S. companies in what was dubbed Operation Aurora. They
stole proprietary data and company secrets, according to Google
and private cyber-security companies.  Hackers also broke into the databanks of BP Plc,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and at least three other
major energy companies over a two-year period ending this year.
They stole millions of dollars of data on global oil reserves,
according to McAfee Inc. and documentation in leaked e-mails of
the cyber security firm HB Gary Inc.  ‘Turning Points’  Cyber thieves stole the account data of 100 million global
customers from Sony computer networks in April, the second-
largest data breach in U.S. history, according to the Open
Security Foundation.  “These are turning points we’re witnessing,” said Anup Ghosh, founder of the Fairfax, Virginia-based cyber security
firm Invincea Inc. and a former Pentagon cyber scientist. “What
you’re seeing is the loss of the U.S.’s competitive position on
a global scale,” he said.  Law enforcement is hampered by the borderless nature of the
Internet and by sophisticated methods used by attackers, cyber
experts said.  “If you are looking at the Google systems that are being
hacked from a country like China, there is no ability to track
those activities back to individuals,” said Nicholas Percoco,
head of Trustwave Corp.’s SpiderLabs.  Chinese Government  A spokesman for China’s foreign ministry said June 2 that
blaming the country for the hacking of Google customer accounts
is “unacceptable” and added that the Chinese government
disapproves of and punishes Internet hacking.  “I can go into a Starbucks in  Chicago , break into a system
in  Bulgaria , and use that system to launch an attack on Google
so that it looks like it’s coming from there,” Percoco said.  Attackers deliberately base their operations in countries
that provide limited law enforcement cooperation with the U.S.
or where long-standing relationships between agencies don’t
exist. Prominent examples include Ukraine, Romania, Russia and
China, U.S. officials said.  “I can talk to the Ukraine all day and even identify who
is responsible, but that doesn’t mean they are going to jail,”
said E.J. Hilbert, a former FBI cyber investigator who is
president of the New York City-based cyber-security firm Online
Intelligence.  More Resources  The  Justice Department , FBI and Secret Service say they
have allocated more resources to the fight against cyber crime.
Each can point to some successes. Last fall, the Justice
Department announced the arrest of 39 individuals in Operation
Trident Breach, a takedown of a $70 million international bank-
fraud ring that used computer worms to steal account
information.  U.S. agents only arrested the so-called money mules
responsible for setting up bogus bank accounts designed to move
stolen money abroad. They weren’t able to detain any of the
kingpins they believed had organized the crime spree from the
safety of eastern Europe.  One of the most successful U.S. prosecutions followed the
indictment of Albert Gonzalez in August 2009 on charges related
to the theft of 130 million credit card numbers from  Heartland
Payment Systems Inc. (HPY) , the Princeton, New Jersey-based payment
processor. Gonzalez, a Miami resident who worked as a federal
informant and admitted that he led an international ring, was
later sentenced to 15 to 25 years in prison. Other members of
his gang, believed to be located in Russia or Eastern Europe,
haven’t been charged in the case, U.S. officials said.  Cyber Booty  Both Snow and Martinez pointed to successes that aren’t
related to arrests, including hard-fought operations to take
down web boards where cyber “booty” obtained from intrusions
is exchanged or the disabling of infrastructure used by cyber
thieves to commit crimes.  Snow cited the recent Justice Department dismantling of the
Coreflood botnet, a network of more than 2 million infected
computers that was used by Russian cyber thieves to steal
financial information. The operation was the first time U.S.
authorities had targeted command-and-control servers used to
direct such botnets. Snow said it showed law enforcement is now
taking some innovative approaches.  “I don’t think it’s right to conclude that because there
are not a lot of arrests that law enforcement is not doing its
job,” he said.  Brazen and Public  Cyber-security experts said hacking attacks haven’t
necessarily increased in recent months. They’ve just become more
brazen and public. A self-styled group of hacker-activists known
as Anonymous began launching high-profile cyber attacks in
December, announcing their efforts on websites and openly
discussing details on web boards known as Internet relay chats
or IRC’s. Such so-called hacktivists have said they are
motivated by punishing activities they dislike.  Anonymous took credit for taking down the websites of
Mastercard Inc. and  Visa Inc. (V)  in December as payback for the
payment processors’ suspending use of their networks by
WikiLeaks, an organization that publishes secret documents on
its website.  Ransacked HB Gary  In February, Anonymous hackers ransacked the computer files
of HB Gary, a Sacramento-based cyber-security firm, posting
online 60,000 captured internal e-mails. Officials at Tokyo-
based Sony said they found a folder named Anonymous inside their
computer networks following the loss of account holder
information, with a file that read “we are legion,” an
Anonymous motto.  Hilbert said LulzSec appears to be loosely linked to
Anonymous and has some of the same members. The group took
responsibility for defacing the website of the nonprofit
broadcast service PBS at the end of May, as well as for a later
attack against Sony and another against  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox
television network.  Unlike Chinese or Eastern European-based hackers, members
of Anonymous and LulzSec may be more vulnerable to arrest
because of the methods they use and the way they are organized,
according to cyber-security experts who track them. Leaders
are based across several countries in Western Europe and
in the U.S.  They often discuss illegal acts on web boards using
pseudonyms that investigators may ultimately be able to link to
real identities, the experts said, asking not to be identified
because of fear of retaliation by the groups.  In December, the FBI seized evidence in the U.S., including
server logs, computers and telephones from Anonymous leaders in
multistate raids. Snow said that he couldn’t comment on a
continuing investigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  