-- 
Gordhan Says There’s No Easy Solution to Curb South African Rand Strength

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-07T13:53:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/gordhan-says-there-s-no-easy-solution-to-curb-south-african-rand-strength.html
South  Africa  needs to work with its
Group of 20 partners to counter the negative effects that
capital inflows are having on  developing countries ’ currencies,
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  The strength of South Africa’s rand is “one of the many
factors” undermining manufacturing and exports in Africa’s
biggest economy, Gordhan told reporters in Cape Town. The
capital flows that have boosted the rand won’t end soon, he
said.  “Short-term flows of funds are creating a negative impact
on the economies of developing countries, including asset
bubbles and currency appreciation,” Gordhan said. “This is an
area that doesn’t have an easy solution. There is no magic
formula” to curb currency appreciation, he said.  The rand has appreciated 16 percent against the dollar in
the past 12 months, prompting calls from labor unions for
government intervention to weaken the currency. Trade and
Industry Minister Rob Davies yesterday said the rand is
overvalued and government is discussing ways to deal with
currency strength.  South Africa  will continue to accumulate reserves “to the
extent that affordability allows,” Gordhan said. The rand
gained as much as 0.7 percent today after the central bank
scaled down its foreign-currency purchases. The currency traded
0.6 percent stronger at 6.7232 per dollar at 3:40 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  Any solution to currency appreciation would have to find a
balance between the needs of developed and developing countries,
Gordhan said.  “The world needs to find a formula that enables better
investment prospects for the funds in the developed world, and
long-term investment prospects in continents like Africa, and
particularly South Africa,” Gordhan said. “The solution
doesn’t lie in only one country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  Nef at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  