-- 
Grand Bargain Deficit-Deal Failure Would Set Election Showdown on Debt Cap

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-06-07T20:41:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/grand-bargain-debt-deal-failure-would-set-up-election-showdown.html
A Republican demand that an increase
in the U.S. debt limit be matched by spending reductions may do
more than force painful cuts. It could mean another vote on the
borrowing cap at the height of the 2012 election campaign.  With hopes fading for a grand bargain to rein in the debt,
Vice President  Joe Biden  said he thinks a bipartisan group of
lawmakers he’s leading in talks can agree on a $1 trillion
deficit-reduction package to win enough votes to raise the $14.3
trillion debt ceiling by August. Yet unless he can get
Republicans to agree to raise the debt ceiling beyond that, it
won’t be enough to get past the election, budget experts say.  “Nobody has put enough savings on the table to justify
lifting the debt limit by $2-or-$3 trillion, which is what we
have to do,” said Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee
for a Responsible Federal Budget, a bipartisan Washington group
that examines fiscal policy.  “I don’t know whether they have thought through the
consequences of making this dollar-for-dollar deal,” Joe Minarik, senior vice president at the nonpartisan Committee for
 Economic Development  and a former chief economist in the White
House budget office, said of the Republicans. “They’ll have to
make multiple, politically difficult votes, and the financial
markets could be in a continued unsettled state.”  With the Biden talks set to resume June 9, Republicans are
vowing to block any tax increases that Democrats say must be
part of a deal. And a special-election victory last month in New
York has hardened Democrats’ opposition to Republican demands to
re-engineer Medicare, the biggest driver of the long-term debt.  Boehner Wants Cuts  House Speaker  John Boehner  “has made clear that if
President Obama wants Congress to increase the debt limit then
it must be accompanied by spending cuts greater than the debt
hike,” said  Kevin Smith , a spokesman for Boehner, an Ohio
Republican. “The American people simply will not tolerate
anything less.”  Negotiations among a separate group of six senators, who
have been trying to craft a comprehensive plan for months, have
gone into a deep freeze, making significant moves on taxes and
entitlements -- the basis of any grand bargain on the debt --
more remote.  “Politics is getting in the way,” said Tim Penny, a
former Minnesota lawmaker who founded the Democratic Budget
Group in Congress to draft deficit-cutting initiatives. “A
substantive deal is unfortunately not likely, but budget targets
with some enforcement mechanism may be doable.”  Growing Pressure  Pressure is building on debt negotiators to deliver an
agreement.  Moody’s Investors Service last week said if there’s no
progress on increasing the debt limit in coming weeks, it
expects to place the government’s rating under review for a
possible downgrade. In April,  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded its
U.S. debt outlook to negative.  “The markets ought to know we’re going to get this done,”
Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the No. 2 House
Democrat, said on June 2 after a meeting at the White House. A
default “would have catastrophic consequences.”  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor e-mailed  House
Republicans  yesterday that he’s “cautiously optimistic” they
will be able to reach a deal with the administration on spending
cuts that would equal whatever increase in the debt limit they
decide on. Cantor, a Virginia Republican, said he plans to let
them know “in the coming weeks” of specific cuts under
discussion.  Branding Republicans  John Feehery , a political strategist and a former spokesman
for onetime Republican House Speaker Dennis Hastert, played down
the risk of repeated votes on the debt ceiling and the effect on
markets. And he said Republicans could benefit from the debate.  “If they can have a long sustained period of proving that
they’re cutting spending, that’s good for Republicans because it
helps brand Republicans as the spending-cutters,” he said.  “Ultimately, they will get a deal,” he said. “They can
extract a lot more concessions with this than with almost
everything else.”  For all the concern about the deficit in  Washington , bond
market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government
was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year  U.S. Treasury  note was 2.99 percent today,
below the average of 7 percent since 1980 and the average of
5.48 percent in the 1998 through 2001 period, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader.  Partial Victory  Barring a “more significant market warning” in the form
of increased costs of borrowing or credit default swaps, a $1
trillion down payment with an enforcement mechanism would allow
both sides to declare a partial victory, said MacGuineas.  “It leaves the toughest pieces to figure out post-election
-- Social Security, Medicare, defense and taxes,” she said.
“This is the unfortunate reality of politics.”  For Democrats, reaching a deal with Republicans on so-
called entitlements would neutralize a Republican plan to
largely privatize Medicare, the issue that propelled Democrat
Kathy Hochul to a May 24 victory in a western  New York  district.  The “unfortunate lesson” of that election for Democrats
is “‘don’t cut a deal on entitlements,’” said Matt Bennett, a
vice president of Third Way, a Democratic policy group that
supports an overhaul of the government programs.  For their part, Republicans don’t want to hand Obama a
history-making agreement to slash the federal debt that would
win him support among independent voters. “If Obama gets a
grand bargain done it makes it very difficult to beat him,”
said Bennett.  Short-Term Extensions  “Tax reform will take longer and so will Medicare,
Medicaid, entitlement reform,” said Charlie Stenholm, a former
Texas congressman and veteran of battles to curb entitlements.
Stenholm, a Democrat, envisions “a short-term, even a series of
short-term debt ceiling extensions, that would eventually do
what has to be done, and that’s cut spending.”  Stenholm is among those who support what’s known as a
trigger scenario: If Congress fails to put in place a plan to
meet agreed-upon savings and debt targets, automatic spending
cuts and revenue increases would take effect.  On April 13, the president outlined his version of the
concept, though critics and Republicans say it’s a nonstarter
because it exempts Medicare and Social Security from automatic
cutbacks. The trigger wouldn’t kick in until 2014 and only if
projections showed average deficits of over 2.8 percent of gross
domestic product. This would give lawmakers a year after the
election to reach a deal.  Gramm Rudman  One pitfall is crafting an enforcement mechanism that
doesn’t suffer the same fate of a similar attempt in 1985, the
Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act, which was viewed as a failure because
Congress ultimately ignored its automatic cuts. Balanced budgets
didn’t materialize until the 1990s, when budget surpluses
resulted from an improved economy.  While Biden has set a goal of a package of at least $1
trillion, aides involved in the negotiations say the two sides
have found common ground on just $200 billion in cuts thus far.  Even his goal would fall far short of the $4 trillion
package the group of six senators led by  Mark Warner , a Virginia
Democrat, and  Saxby Chambliss , a Georgia Republican, had been
drafting. That effort stalled, with one Republican member,
Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma , stepping away from the talks.  The Biden-led group is “not going to solve the $14
trillion debt,” said Chambliss. “I don’t think there’s any
way.”  Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , one of the lawmakers
participating in the Biden talks, said the debt ceiling would
have to be raised by $2.4 trillion now to get through the end of
next year, adding that Republicans would want at least take that
much in savings in return.  Asked whether he’s willing to take additional votes in an
election year, Kyl, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate, said:
“I’m perfectly happy to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  