-- 
Groupon Welcomes Entry of Facebook, Google Into Market, CEO Mason Says

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-06-07T05:03:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/groupon-welcomes-entry-of-facebook-google-into-market-ceo-mason-says.html
Groupon Inc. , owner of the world’s
largest online coupon site, said it welcomes entry by Facebook
Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  into the market, as surging sales attract
more companies to the business, intensifying competition.  “To some extent, they’re competitors,” Groupon Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Mason said at a briefing in Seoul.
“That said, we welcome competition. We think it’s good for
consumers, it’s good for merchants. We hope to see them bring
innovation to the market. We welcome them to this space.”  The daily deals market, which Groupon pioneered, is set to
generate $3.9 billion in sales in 2015, surging from $873
million in 2010, according to researcher BIA/Kelsey in
Chantilly, Virginia. Groupon still had a $113.9-million net loss
in the first quarter as intensifying competition led marketing
expenses to eat into profit margins.  Facebook, the world’s biggest social-networking website,
unveiled a Groupon-like feature that lets merchants offer
discounts to potential shoppers nearby. Google introduced a
similar service offering discount deals, named Google Offers,
last month.  Co-founded by Mason in 2008, Groupon sells discount deals
for goods and services ranging from restaurants to nail salons
in more than 500 markets worldwide, compared with about 260 for
its closest rival Washington-based LivingSocial. The companies
offer daily discounts of as much as 90 percent and keep about
half the revenue, giving the rest to merchants.  IPO Plan  Groupon filed for an initial public offering on June 2 with
the help of Morgan Stanley,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Credit
Suisse Group AG.  The online coupon provider, which had an implied valuation
of $5.6 billion at the end of March according to research firm
Nyppex LLC, was in talks with bankers about an IPO that would
value the company at as much as $25 billion, people familiar
with the matter said in March.  Groupon plans to expand its Groupon Now service, which was
released in May and lets smartphone users search for deals at
nearby locations globally, if testing in the U.S. goes well,
Mason said. The company may expand into more overseas markets,
with no decision made yet, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  