-- 
ICE’s Sprecher Says ‘Things Aren’t Over Yet’ on Liffe After Snub From NYSE

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-06-07T14:19:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/ice-s-sprecher-says-things-aren-t-over-yet-on-liffe-after-snub-from-nyse.html
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , which
was rejected in its joint bid for NYSE Euronext, said it’s still
interested in the Liffe derivatives market owned by the operator
of the New York Stock Exchange.  “Things aren’t over yet,” ICE Chief Executive Officer
Jeffrey Sprecher told a room of exchange executives including
Garry Jones, the head of London-based Liffe, at a conference
today in London. “Liffe’s a great franchise, we would love to
work with them.”  ICE and New York-based  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  withdrew their
bid for NYSE Euronext last month after the  U.S. Department of
Justice  threatened an antitrust lawsuit. The two companies would
have split NYSE Euronext, with Nasdaq OMX keeping the stock and
options trading units and the listings business and Atlanta-
based ICE taking the Liffe futures business. NYSE Euronext
agreed to be bought by  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  in February.  “I had a vision the U.S. regulator didn’t share,”
Sprecher said during a panel discussion with Liffe’s Jones and
Andreas Preuss, deputy chief executive of  Deutsche Boerse , at
the IDX International Derivatives Expo. “We stuck our neck out
and I’m glad we did it. A lot of people in this room have been
supportive of our attempts to be disruptive.”  Deutsche Boerse’s takeover of NYSE Euronext still faces
scrutiny from European regulators. The merger would combine the
two biggest derivatives business in  Europe , Liffe and Eurex, and
put about 30 percent of the region’s stock trading under common
ownership, based on data compiled by Bats Global Markets.  Three U.S. Exchanges  In the U.S., the company would own three equity options
exchanges, giving it 42 percent of the volume, based on April’s
figures compiled by Chicago-based OCC, which clears equity
derivatives transactions.  Nasdaq OMX and ICE pulled their $11.3 billion bid for  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  on May 16, less than a week after Sprecher described
the chance to buy Liffe as a “once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.”  The combined NYSE Euronext-Deutsche Boerse entity will
become the largest exchange company worldwide, trading or
clearing 4.8 billion futures and options contracts last year,
compared with CME Group Inc.’s 3.1 billion contracts, according
to data from the Washington-based Futures Industry Association.
The data include equity options in addition to futures
contracts.  NYSE Euronext shareholders will meet July 7 to discuss the
deal, which requires 50 percent of their votes. Deutsche Boerse
needs 75 percent of investors to approve it by July 13,
according to a May 4 regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  