-- 
Indonesia May Delay Rate Increase

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   M a n i s h   M o d i
-- 
2011-06-07T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/indonesia-may-delay-rate-increase.html
Indonesia ’s central bank will
probably keep interest rates unchanged for a fourth month as
slowing inflation and a strengthening currency allows it to
delay an increase and support economic expansion.  Bank Indonesia will hold its benchmark reference rate at
6.75 percent, according to all 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News ahead of a decision due in Jakarta tomorrow.  Governor Darmin Nasution has refrained from adding to the
central bank’s first rate increase in more than two years in
February even as neighbors from  Thailand  to the Philippines
tightened monetary policy further. Inflation eased for a fourth
month in May as a 5.4 percent gain in the rupiah this year
capped import costs.  “Inflation is still under control, so Bank Indonesia will
hold  interest rates  this month to support economic growth,”
said David Sumual, an economist at PT Bank Central Asia in
Jakarta “It doesn’t mean Bank Indonesia is behind the curve.”  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s policy makers have
extended fuel subsidies and let the rupiah climb the most after
Taiwan in Asia this year to damp inflation, as rising food and
oil costs force China, Thailand,  India , Vietnam, Malaysia and
the Philippines to raise rates.  The Indonesian currency touched 8,506 a dollar earlier this
week, the strongest level since March 2004. A stronger currency
has also helped  Australia  contain inflation, allowing the
Reserve Bank of Australia to leave its benchmark rate unchanged
at 4.75 percent for a sixth straight meeting yesterday.  Growth Eases  Southeast  Asia ’s biggest economy expanded 6.5 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, slowing from 6.9 percent in the
previous three months. Gross domestic product may rise 6.5
percent to 6.9 percent in 2012, Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  said May 20.  “This isn’t the time for Bank Indonesia to raise rates,”
said Erwan Teguh, head of research at PT CIMB Securities
Indonesia in Jakarta, citing easing inflation.  The government will probably refrain from raising fuel
prices, helping support “strong GDP growth this year,” Ari Pitoyo, head of research at PT Mandiri Sekuritas in Jakarta,
said in a report sent to Bloomberg News on June 6. That would be
good for property and consumer goods companies, Pitoyo said.  CIMB’s Teguh said the outlook is promising for consumer
companies such as PT Astra International, PT Gudang Garam, PT
Indofood Sukses Makmur and PT Unilever Indonesia.  Stocks Climb  The country’s benchmark stock index has climbed 3.8 percent
this year, outperforming those in  Japan , Hong Kong,  China ,
Taiwan,  South Korea , India, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and
the Philippines. Jakarta-based Property developer Royal Oak
Development Asia led gains.  Still, Indonesia’s policy makers may raise borrowing costs
starting next month if inflation accelerates out of control in
July and August, Bank Central Asia’s Sumual said.  Consumer prices rose 5.98 percent last month from a year
earlier, less than the 6.16 percent gain in April. Core
inflation accelerated to 4.64 percent from 4.62 percent in April.  Neighboring Thailand raised rates last week for the fourth
time this year to damp accelerating inflation, boosting the one-
day bond repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 3
percent. The Philippine central bank increased the rate it pays
lenders for overnight deposits to 4.5 percent in May from 4.25
percent in its second move this year, while Bank Negara  Malaysia 
lifted the overnight policy rate by a quarter-point to 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  