-- 
Inflation Target Should Be Set to Spur U.S. Recovery, Fed’s Lockhart Says

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-06-07T18:31:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/inflation-target-should-be-set-to-spur-u-s-recovery-fed-s-lockhart-says.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the central bank should set an
explicit goal for inflation to invigorate the “halting”
economic recovery.  “Now is a good time to reaffirm in explicit terms the
central bank’s commitment to delivering its piece of the package
of fundamentals needed to assure a durable and lasting
recovery,” Lockhart said today in a speech in Charlotte, North
Carolina. It was his first call for the adoption of an inflation
target.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and other Fed officials such
as Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  and  Cleveland ’s
 Sandra Pianalto  have advocated adopting an inflation target to
more clearly signal their goals to the public. Unlike many
central banks that focus primarily on inflation, the Fed has a
dual mandate to maintain stable prices and promote maximum
employment.  An inflation target wouldn’t significantly alter the
conduct of policy since “we have been pursuing policies with an
eye toward 2 percent or slightly less headline inflation at
least since we began publicly reporting our longer-term
inflation forecasts,” he said to the  Charlotte  Economics Club.  While supporting an inflation target, Lockhart said
additional asset purchases from the central bank are likely to
be unnecessary.  ‘High Bar’  “There is a very high bar to another round of asset
purchases and my forecast for the economy really would not need
another round,” Lockhart said today in response to an audience
question. Speaking to reporters after the speech he said he
would likely need to see a “serious reversal of the growth
picture” before supporting additional easing.  Former Fed Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn  was skeptical of an
inflation target, saying in 2003 that “the  U.S. economy  has
benefited from the flexibility that the Federal Reserve has
derived by eschewing a formal inflation target.” In 2007, Kohn
led a review of the Fed’s communications strategies that ended
with the central bank occasionally publishing its forecasts
without an explicit target for an increase in prices.  2 Percent Proposed  Lockhart told reporters the Fed’s target should be 2
percent since “it is an appropriate number that is easily
communicated to the public.”  The target should aim at headline inflation, rather than
so-called core measures that exclude food and energy, and “the
target must be achievable over a realistic timeframe,” he said
in his speech.  The time horizon should be short enough to “serve the real
interests of the public” and “to serve as a verifiable check
on central bank performance,” he said. As monetary policy has a
lag,“the time horizon should be long enough for the objective
to be realized at an acceptable cost.”  The  consumer price index  rose 3.2 percent in April from a
year earlier, the biggest increase since October 2008. The index
excluding food and energy rose 1.3 percent, the most since
February 2010. In April, most Fed policy makers expected the
current bout of inflation to be “transitory” with overall
inflation to decline to 1.2 percent to 2 percent in 2012,
according to their economic forecasts.  ‘Stated Objective’  The Atlanta Fed chief said the central bank must be able to
“allow short-run deviations” from its target.  Lockhart said he was “wary” of tightening monetary policy
since he is “troubled by what you might describe as a lack of
conviction in this economy.”  Lockhart has backed the Federal Open Market Committee’s
plans to complete a $600 billion Treasury-securities purchase
program this month that is aimed at boosting the recovery and
reducing an  unemployment rate  stuck at about 9 percent.  Employers added 54,000 jobs in May, the worst performance
since September, reinforcing signs that a slowdown in the
world’s largest economy is persisting into the second quarter.
The unemployment rate rose to 9.1 percent, marking the 26th
month of joblessness near 9 percent or higher.  “Recent disappointing incoming data are not a reason to
panic,” he said. “In fact, the economy has shown pretty
impressive resilience through a litany of what are hardly
ordinary and predictable developments.”  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Charlotte,  North Carolina  at   jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  