-- 
Innkeepers Creditors Delay Fight With Apollo Over $526 Million in Claims

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-06-07T19:58:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/innkeepers-creditors-delay-fight-with-apollo-over-526-million-in-claims.html
Innkeepers USA Trust  creditors agreed
to delay a dispute over how to share $526 million in claims with
Apollo Investment Corp. while the hotel owner seeks approval of
a reorganization plan.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman said she is prepared
to approve the agreement among creditors and enter it in court
papers later today. Creditors can vote on the plan based on the
disputed claims, according to a draft of the agreement. Chapman
said she didn’t want to be surprised by objections to the plan’s
approval tied to the claims.  “I’m hoping you’ll work this out,” Chapman said at a
hearing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  Innkeepers on May 13 won approval of the revised terms of a
reorganization plan that includes a sale of 64 hotels to
Cerberus Capital Management LP and  Chatham Lodging Trust. (CLDT)  The
company plans to seek court approval of the plan June 23.  Innkeepers’ largest creditor, PNC Bank division Midland
Loan Services, objected to the plan, saying it stripped Midland
of a guarantee claim it has against Innkeepers unit Grand Prix
Holdings LLC, and wrongly distributes millions of dollars to
Apollo, Innkeepers’s parent.  Lehman Ali, a unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., also
said Apollo, which had junior equity interest, shouldn’t get a
recovery before senior creditors are paid in full.  Midland Claim  Today’s agreement delays a fight over the size of the
claims creditors can make. Midland, which services an
$825.4 million secured loan, had said it should be able to make
its claim of almost $84 million against Grand Prix under a June
2007 agreement. More money will flow to Apollo if the claims
aren’t allowed, Midland said in court papers.  Apollo said in court papers it has “reason to believe”
Midland waived its right to the claim. The dispute doesn’t need
to be decided until Innkeepers seeks final court approval for
its Chapter 11 plan, and may affect similar claims, lawyers for
Apollo said.  According to the draft agreement, the similar claims
include two from  Wells Fargo & Co . -- one for $44.7 million and
another for $13.2 million. Lehman has a $233.5 million claim and
TriMont Real Estate Advisors has two claims, for $131.3 million
and $22.6 million.  Innkeepers, based in  Palm Beach ,  Florida , has 71 extended-
stay and limited-service properties with 10,000 rooms in 20
states. The company filed for Chapter 11 protection in July,
listing assets of $1.5 billion against debt totaling $1.52
billion.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 