-- 
Investors Prefer Commissions to Account Fees, Cerulli Study Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-06-07T18:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/investors-prefer-commissions-to-account-fees-study-says-1-.html
Investors would rather pay
commissions for the financial advice they receive than a fee
based on assets under management, said  Cerulli Associates .  About 47 percent of 7,800 households surveyed prefer paying
commissions, compared with 27 percent that would rather
contribute a fee based on assets, according to the report
released today by the Boston-based research firm. About 18
percent said they prefer paying retainer fees, which are
generally lump sums negotiated between advisers and clients, and
8 percent said they opt for an hourly fee structure.  “Investors don’t like the idea of paying a fee forever,”
said Scott Smith, associate director for Cerulli. “I think it
rubs them the wrong way until the benefits are explained.”  The financial advice industry has been moving towards a
fee-based model in recent years, the report said. In 2010 about
66 percent of all providers of financial advice were compensated
only or primarily by fees compared with 46 percent in 2003.  “If you’re only going to trade five or seven times a year,
it’s probably more economical for you to pay a commission as
opposed to paying someone one percent of your assets as a
management fee,” said Ira Hammerman, general counsel for the
 Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association , the
lobbying group for the brokerage industry.  Free Advice  About 33 percent of investors surveyed said they didn’t
know how they pay for the investment advice they receive, and 31
percent said they thought their adviser or broker provided
investment advice for free. Those who were unsure of how they
pay for advice were most likely to be unhappy with their
financial adviser, with 47 percent reporting dissatisfaction,
the study said. About 27 percent of those who said they pay
commissions reported being dissatisfied.  “Somebody who hands their adviser a check and hopes for
the best is unlikely to have been very happy in the last few
years,” Smith said.  About 64 percent of those surveyed said they believe their
financial adviser is held to a fiduciary standard of care, and
63 percent of clients of the largest broker-dealers said they
thought that as well.  Brokers currently must meet a standard to offer clients
“suitable investments,” whereas registered investment advisers
have a fiduciary obligation to put clients’ best interests
first.  Common Standard  In January, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
released a  report  recommending a common fiduciary standard for
brokers and registered investment advisers who provide
personalized investment advice. The SEC is scheduled to propose
a rule on the standard between August and the end of the year,
according to its  website . Holding brokers to a fiduciary
standard won’t preclude them from accepting commissions, the SEC
report said.  “Our clients have consistently indicated that they want
choice in how they purchase and pay for wealth management
services,” said Christine Pollak, a spokeswoman for  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  Smith Barney, the world’s largest brokerage.  Investors who say they prefer commissions may not realize
how much they’re paying in terms of dollars, said Ellen Turf,
chief executive officer of the National Association of Personal
Financial Advisors, a network of fee-only financial planners.  “I think it’s a psychological thing,” she said. “I think
the average consumer really doesn’t understand.”  The Cerulli study was based on a  Phoenix Marketing
International  survey conducted between August and December 2010
that focused on households with more than $50,000 in annual
income or more than $250,000 in investable assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexis Leondis at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net . 