-- 
Iran Submarines in Red Sea to Spot Naval Vessels, Fars Says

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-06-07T15:32:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/iran-submarines-in-red-sea-to-spot-naval-vessels-fars-says-2-.html
Iranian submarines have entered the
 Red Sea  as part of a mission to identify other nations’ military
vessels and collect information about the seabed, the state-run
 Fars  news agency reported, citing an unidentified official.  The submarines came from the Gulf of Aden, where they were
dispatched in May, according to today’s report by Fars, which
didn’t specify the number of vessels involved. A Pentagon
spokesman in  Washington , Marine Corps Colonel  David Lapan ,
confirmed the deployment without additional details.  The submarines were sailing next to ships from the Iranian
Navy’s 14th Fleet, which includes the destroyer Shahid Naghdi,
Fars said. The fleet was sent to the Gulf of Aden in May to
protect Iran’s cargo ships and oil tankers from attacks by
Somali pirates, Fars said.  “We are not concerned if they have moved submarines into
the Red Sea,” Lapan told reporters in the Pentagon today.  Two Iranian warships entered the  Suez Canal  from the Red
Sea in February on their way to the Mediterranean Sea for the
first time since 1979, to reach Syria. Israel condemned the
move, calling it a “provocation” that was part of Iran’s
struggle for “hegemony and control” of the  Middle East .  In March, the head of Iran’s Navy, Commander Habibollah Sayari, said his forces planned to expand their operational zone
beyond the Persian Gulf and the Sea of Oman, according to a
separate  Fars  report today.  Iran needs to “turn into a regional power in terms of
military defense and has to prove its might and capability not
only in but also outside the region,” Sayari said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  