-- 
Ireland Seeks to Entice Homebuyers Deterred by Market’s Collapse

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-06-07T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/ireland-seeks-to-entice-homebuyers-deterred-by-market-s-collapse.html
As  Europe ’s debt crisis deepens,
Ireland is considering desperate measures to revive what remains
of the country’s real estate industry.  The National Asset Management Agency, set up by the
government 18 months ago to acquire risky assets, is trying to
lure buyers back into one of the region’s worst-performing
property markets. NAMA may sell homes at a discount, providing
the value of the property falls further in the years after the
deal, said Ray Gordon, a spokesman for the agency.  “The market needs a kick-start,” said Tom Dunne, a
lecturer at the School of Real Estate and Construction Economics
at the  Dublin Institute of Technology . “NAMA might be able to
provide that.”  Ireland’s boom and bust, which led to an 85 billion-euro
($125 billion) international bailout last year, was driven by
the real estate market. Property prices quadrupled in the 10
years through 2007. Since then, home values have fallen 40
percent, figures  released  yesterday showed. Mortgage lending has
dropped about 95 percent from the market’s peak.  The government, through NAMA, is on the hook for 31 billion
euros of loans tied to the property market, equivalent to 20
percent of the Irish economy and part of the more than 100
billion-euro cost for taxpayers to rescue Irish banks.  ‘Dead Market’  “There is no lending going on,” said Niall Gaffney, chief
executive officer of  IPUT , a real-estate fund and among the
largest owners of offices and stores in Dublin. “The market is
dead.”  The number of new mortgages granted in the first quarter
declined 53 percent to 3,259 from a year earlier, the Dublin-
based  Irish Banking Federation  said on May 17.  Home prices fell 1 percent in April, according to a report
published yesterday by the country’s statistics office. Prices
have fallen every month since December 2007.  Would-be buyers are afraid of ending up with negative
equity, where the home price falls to less than the value of the
loan, NAMA said in a May 19 statement. The agency said it was
talking to banks about how to spur potential purchasers of
offices, malls and empty homes into action.  One option would be for NAMA to ask the buyer for 80
percent of the purchase price at the time of the transaction and
only collect the remaining 20 percent if the market value
remained the same or increased by a certain amount. If the value
fell, the purchaser would have to pay only part of the
outstanding amount or, in some cases, nothing at all.  Desperate Corner  More than 300,000 households, or about 40 percent of
mortgages, may end up in negative equity before the  property
market  bottoms out, said David Duffy, an economist at the
Economic & Social Research Institute in Dublin.  NAMA now has about 1.2 billion euros in cash and controls
loans once worth 70 billion euros, which it bought at an average
discount of about 58 percent. Led by Brendan McDonagh, who
previously worked with the country’s  National Treasury
Management Agency , NAMA has taken action against 57 debtors.
McDonagh wasn’t available for an interview.  “NAMA is desperately trying to get out of the corner that
it painted itself into,” said Karl Deeter, operations manager
at Dublin-based  Irish Mortgage Brokers . “From their point of
view, it’s better to get some cash in and have the houses
occupied than have the property empty and have to pay for
maintenance and security.”  New Bubble?  The plan may risk pushing buyers into NAMA-controlled real
estate, which would artificially boost prices and leave swathes
of properties outside the remit of the agency unsold, Deeter
said. The agency has said it’s prepared to work with banks that
haven’t transferred assets to it.  “You could have purchasers buying properties for the
wrong reason, just because financing is available,” Deeter
said. “So, it might be akin to the tax incentives that led to
some of the overbuilding in the first place.”  In addition to unfinished and empty housing estates, about
23 percent of offices are unoccupied, according to  CB Richard
Ellis Group Inc. (CBG)  Two commercial property sales were completed in
the first quarter of this year, compared with 29 during all of
2010, CB Richard Ellis reported.  While that is partly due to investor concern that the
government is set to abolish contracts which prevent rents from
being reduced, financing is also scarce. NAMA said it may
provide vendor financing, where buyers provide about 25 percent
of the asset price, and enter a loan deal with the agency to
repay the rest over five to seven years.  “What international investors want to see is some
leadership and direction out of Ireland,” said Gaffney at IPUT.
“An investor in  London  and the U.S. wants to know that the
Irish real estate market has hit the floor, and the NAMA
initiative could help arrest the decline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 