-- 
Ironman Triathlon Inaugural New York City Event to Be Held in August 2012

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   J o s h   F i n e m a n
-- 
2011-06-07T18:49:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/ironman-triathlon-inaugural-new-york-city-event-to-be-held-in-august-2012.html
World Triathlon Corp. will stage its
 Ironman  U.S. Championship in  New York  next year, the first time
the company’s marquee endurance event will be held in the
biggest U.S. market and capitalizing on the sport’s popularity
among financial professionals.  The 140.6-mile (226.2-kilometer) competition will take
place Aug. 11, 2012, with athletes racing through parts of New
York City and suburbs in New York and  New Jersey . Registration
for the race will open June 15 on a first-come, first-serve
basis. The field will consist of about 2,500 professional and
amateur athletes.  The entry fee hasn’t been determined yet, organizers said.
A typical Ironman race costs $575 to take part in and
competitors have an average annual income of $161,000, according
to World Triathlon. About 2,000 of the approximate 3,000
competitors in the 2010 NYC Triathlon worked in the financial
services industry, race officials said.  “Bringing the Ironman experience to the  New York City 
metropolitan area will allow athletes to compete with the
world’s most iconic skyline as their backdrop,” Ben Fertic,
World Triathlon’s chief executive officer, said in a  statement .  The event will begin with a 2.4-mile swim down the  Hudson
River . Competitors then will cycle 112 miles, beginning on the
Palisades Parkway on the west side of the Hudson and ending in
 Fort Lee , New Jersey, after looping through New Jersey’s Bergen
and New York’s Rockland counties. The race concludes with a
26.2-mile run from Fort Lee to Riverside Park in Manhattan.  Time Limit  Competitors have 17 hours to finish an Ironman, making it
difficult to close large sections of the city, organizers said.
Because of this, most of the race’s bike portion will take place
outside of  Manhattan .  “This thing is going to go like wildfire,” said Andrew
Shapiro, 50, an  investment adviser  at MetLife Financial Group in
New York, who has done five Ironmans with a best time of 12
hours, 38 minutes. “This is going to be a very hot ticket, not
only for New York, but internationally.”  Shapiro, who rides a Giant TCR1 bike, said he had been
considering taking part in an Ironman after he turned 50.  “This could get the juices going,” said Shapiro, who
plans to sign up for the race.  The event joins 26 other long-course races held  around the
globe  by World Triathlon. The company yesterday also announced a
new Ironman-distance event in  Mont-Tremblant ,  Quebec , to be
staged Aug. 19, 2012.  Lengths Vary  The Ironman race was created in  Hawaii  in 1978. Since then,
World Triathlon and other organizations have created races in
distances ranging from 8 miles, or super sprint, to 70.3 miles,
or a half Ironman.  A total of 75 age-group qualifying spots for the 2012
Ironman World Championship in Kona, Hawaii, will be offered in
the New York race, the most of any North American Ironman event.  “It’s very convenient to have it here,” said Benoit Le,
30, a rates trader at Dexia Credit Local in New York, who has
done Olympic distance and half-Ironmans and plans to sign up for
the New York event. “It may be a big, big thing here.”  In the decade after triathlon first appeared in the
Olympics in 2000, membership of  USA Triathlon  soared to 135,000
from 20,000, according to the sport’s governing body in the U.S.  The New York race will be staged in partnership with  Korff
Enterprises , which operates the  Nautica NYC Triathlon  at the
Olympic distance of 31.9 miles.  Triathlon Partnership  World Triathlon, which owns and operates Ironman-branded
events, recently partnered with Korff and the NYC Triathlon to
promote the event as part of Ironman’s 5150 Triathlon Series.  The 11-year-old NYC Triathlon, which is scheduled for Aug.
7, consists of a .9-mile swim, 25-mile bike ride and 6.2-mile
run. The 2010 event sold out in six minutes, according to Korff.
Entrance for this year’s event was conducted via lottery in
November.  Ironman world champion  Chris McCormack  of  Australia  is
scheduled to discuss the New York race at the  Harvard Club of
New York City  tonight. The  Robin Hood Foundation , a charity that
helps fund poverty programs and groups in New York, is
organizing the event.  World Triathlon gets its revenue from races; licensing
deals with companies such as athletic shoemaker  K-Swiss Inc. (KSWS)  and
watchmaker Timex; and sponsorships with companies including  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  and  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  Its brands also include
Irongirl, Ironman 70.3 and Ironkids.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fineman in New York at 
 jfineman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  