-- 
ITG Acquires Canadian Research Firm to Boost Trading Business

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-06-07T20:11:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/itg-acquires-canadian-research-firm-to-boost-trading-business.html
Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG) 
acquired Ross Smith Energy Group Ltd., its second purchase of an
equity research firm, for $38.5 million in cash, the New York-
based brokerage said today in an e-mailed statement.  Buying the Calgary-based company gives ITG 60 new equity
asset management clients and is expected to add 8 cents to 10
cents per diluted share to earnings in 2012, ITG said. RSEG,
which provides research on the oil and gas industry to more than
200 clients including hedge funds in  North America  and  Europe ,
had $15 million in revenue for the year ending April, ITG said.  “This gives us exposure to a very significant Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index industry group,” ITG President and Chief
Executive Officer Robert Gasser said in an interview. ITG
 accounted  for 2.6 percent of U.S. equity trading volume in
April. The deal follows ITG’s purchase of Majestic Research
Corp. for $56 million in October. “It’s time to take the next
step, which is to diversify our research offering
geographically,” Gasser said.  The purchase comes as agency brokers, which provide
execution services and don’t offer  investment banking  or trade
their own money, struggle to maintain commissions from
customers. Low U.S. equity volume hurts their ability to trade
for clients who use commissions to pay investment banks for
research and related services. Daily U.S. volume averaged 7.6
billion shares in the first five months of 2011, down 21 percent
from the same period in 2010, according to Bloomberg data.  Retaining Commissions  “Brokers need more hooks to retain commission in a low-
volume environment,” said Sanford Bragg, president and chief
executive officer of New York-based Integrity Research
Associates LLC. “Research is an important component of the
commission pool and agency firms are formulating their strategic
response to that challenge.”  Agency firms are counting on research and related
investment services that help fund managers make money to win
order volume that may elude brokers focused solely on how well
they execute buy and sell trading requests, Bragg said.  BNY ConvergEx Group LLC, Instinet Inc. and Liquidnet
Holdings Inc. of  New York  have introduced so-called corporate-
access programs to help customers meet managers at publicly
traded companies, Bragg said. This has traditionally been the
domain of investment banks such as  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp. Gasser said ITG is
considering the introduction of a corporate-access program in
the  energy industry  for institutions.  Paying for Research  Instinet and BNY ConvergEx have also operated programs for
years that allow customers to pay for research from independent
firms, Bragg said. Asset managers can use those programs to
trade through the brokers while setting aside commissions to
cover the research they use from other firms. This is part of a
shift over the last half-dozen years in the brokerage industry
to separate the costs of trading and acquiring research.  Ticonderoga Securities LLC in New York bought Soleil
Securities Corp. last month to augment the research services it
provides clients.  Weeden & Co. LP  in Greenwich,  Connecticut , and
New York-based BTIG LLC have expanded the research they offer
institutional clients.  Bloomberg Tradebook , owned by Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, also  offers  research from
independent firms.  Commission Payments  For the year ended mid-February, mutual funds, hedge funds
and other institutions paid broker-dealers an estimated $11.6
billion in U.S. equity commissions, down 12 percent from the
previous year, according to research firm  Greenwich Associates .
Larger hedge funds accounted for 29 percent of the total, up 5
percentage points from the prior year.  “There’s a shrinking commission wallet out there,” Gasser
said. “It’s got to be recognized as a secular shift at this
stage of the game,” he said. “There’s a significant demand for
a research product that firms can’t find elsewhere.”  ITG has more than 700 customers in the U.S., Gasser said.
The firm aims to increase the number of  hedge funds  among its
clients, in part because they’re quick to pay for research they
like through trading volume, he said. Traditional mutual funds
may assess the research they get only on an annual or quarterly
basis, he said.  Access to Executives  Commissions paid for research and advisory services,
including access to executives at companies, rose to 59 percent
of the total from 53 percent a year earlier,  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based Greenwich said. Larger firms increased the
portion paid for those services more than the average, spending
58 percent of their commission dollars for research-related
products, up from 48 percent a year earlier.  James Jarrell , president of RSEG, said the acquisition by
ITG will enable the firm, founded in 1998, to provide its
research to more asset managers and increase its ability to
service clients. Customers currently pay for the research on a
subscription basis by cutting checks or trading with brokers
they select. Those trading fees are then used to cover the cost
of the subscription.  RSEG’s research, used by energy specialists and funds with
broader mandates, encompasses more than 100 public and private
firms in the oil and gas industry, including Houston-based
 Petrohawk Energy Corp. (HK)  and Range Resources Group in  Fort Worth ,
 Texas , Jarrell said. RSEG’s products will become part of ITG
Investment Research while the company’s staff of about 40,
including petroleum engineers and technologists, economists, and
financial analysts, will remain in Calgary, Gasser said.  ITG also said today it entered into a four-year $25.5
million  term loan  to “help preserve its balance sheet
flexibility” after the acquisition. Gasser said the company is
considering additional acquisitions of research firms as it
pursues more hedge fund clients and more trading from firms that
consume research.  “We are absolutely in the hunt,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 