-- 
Japan Plans ‘Fundamental’ Changes in Nuclear Rules, Independent Regulator

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   P e t e r   L a n g a n
-- 
2011-06-08T05:44:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/japan-plans-fundamental-change-in-nuclear-rules.html
Japan  plans a “fundamental
revision” of its nuclear safety rules and will create an
independent regulator to prevent a repeat of the disaster at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic power station.  A report by the government last night also said a national
debate is needed on the “whole concept of nuclear power
generation,” indicating an  energy policy  that powered Japan
after World War II into the ranks of the world’s leading
economies is being questioned.  The current regulator, the Nuclear and Industry Safety
Agency, has been criticized for not ensuring that Tokyo Electric
Power Co. heeded earlier warnings that a tsunami could overwhelm
the Fukushima plant. NISA reports to the ministry that promotes
nuclear power, which hampered quick responses to the disaster,
the government said in the report to be submitted to the
 International Atomic Energy Agency .  “We will first separate NISA” from the Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry, Minister  Banri Kaieda  said at a
news briefing in Tokyo yesterday. “Radiation monitoring is
handled by the science ministry, and there is also the Nuclear
Safety Commission under the cabinet office, so we will consider
how we can unify these.”  Credible, Transparent  The Fukushima nuclear station suffered three reactor
meltdowns after an earthquake and tsunami on March 11 knocked
out power and backup generators, crippling its cooling systems.
The disaster displaced 50,000 households in the evacuation zone
because of radiation leaks into the air, soil and sea.  “Creating an independent nuclear agency is a good thing,
but it’s not clear what should be expected from it,” said
Hironobu Unesaki, a nuclear engineering professor at  Kyoto
University . Japan needs a credible and transparent system for
releasing accident information and radiation data, he said by
telephone today.  It was “irresponsible” of Tokyo Electric and NISA to
release inaccurate data after the accident, and differences in
the Japanese and U.S. officials’ assessment of the crisis led
tensions between the two countries and prompted the U.S. to
advise its citizens living within 50-kilometers of the plant to
evacuate, Unesaki said.  The Japanese government recommended a 20-kilometer
evacuation zone around the stricken nuclear reactors and advised
people within 30 kilometers were advised to stay indoors.  “Information wasn’t properly disclosed,” Unesaki said.
“Proper disclosure and transparency will lead to trust.”  Shares Dumped  Investors have dumped  Tokyo Electric  shares at a record
pace amid bankruptcy speculation, driving the stock down 90
percent since the accident and erasing about 3.1 trillion yen
($39 billion) in value. The stock today slid 7.4 percent to 200
yen, the lowest since at least 1974, as of 2:36 p.m. on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Two nuclear emergency response systems failed because
information from Dai-Ichi “could not be obtained,” yesterday’s
report said without explaining further.  The Emergency Response Support System, which monitors
reactors after an accident and forecasts progress, and a system
to measure atmospheric concentrations of radioactive materials,
known as The System for Prediction of Environmental Emergency
Dose Information, didn’t function, it said.  Melted Fuel  The report confirmed the likelihood that fuel rods melted
in pressure vessels of reactors No. 1, 2 and 3 and fell to the
bottom of the containment chambers. The pressurized vessels of
the reactors, which contained the rods, were likely damaged and
a “considerable” amount of fuel leaked to the floor of the
outer containment vessel, it said.  The utility known as Tepco has pumped millions of liters of
water to cool the three damaged reactors and much of that has
overflowed into basements of buildings. The amount of
contaminated water rose to about 105 million liters (28 million
gallons) from 100 million liters on May 18, Tepco said June 3.  A total of 55,400 metric tons (55.4 million liters) of
water was poured into the No. 1, 2 and 3 reactors, of which
about 34,100 tons of radiated water was estimated to have leaked
from the reactor pressure vessels, according to the report,
which cited Tepco data as of May 31.  Many workers at the Fukushima plant were without personal
dosimeters to measure  radiation exposure  for weeks after the
earthquake because the tsunami soaked their devices in seawater,
making them unusable.  No Dosimeters  The shortage forced groups of workers to depend on single
devices, the government said in the report. All workers had been
reissued personal dosimeters as of April 1, the report said,
indicating many had been working in radioactive areas without
the devices for about 20 days.  As of May 23, 7,800 workers had entered the plant and were
found to have been exposed on average to 7.7 millisieverts of
radiation, with 30 workers receiving exposure doses exceeding
100 millisieverts, the report said. The government increased the
limit for workers engaged in radiation work to 250 millisieverts
from 100 millisieverts to deal with the disaster. Some of the
Fukushima workers may exceed 250 millisieverts in the future,
the report said.  The dose limit is 500 millisieverts for workers in
emergency rescue operations, according to the 1990
recommendation by the International Commission on Radiological
Protection, the report said.  No harmful health effects were found in 195,345 residents
living in the vicinity of the plant who were screened as of May
31. All the 1,080 children tested for thyroid gland exposure
showed results within safe limits, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in  Tokyo  at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Langan in Tokyo at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  