-- 
Japanese Futures Drop on U.S. Economic Outlook, Weaker Dollar

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-06-07T23:18:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/japan-stock-futures-drop-as-fed-s-bernanke-gives-no-hint-of-new-stimulus.html
Japanese stock futures declined as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  gave no hint of a new
round of economic stimulus even as the recovery slows.
Australian stock futures were little changed.  American depositary receipts of  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s
biggest camera maker, lost 0.5 percent from the closing price in
Tokyo.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , an automaker that earns about 70
percent of its revenue abroad, slid 0.5 percent after the dollar
weakened, cutting the earnings outlook for the exporter. ADRs of
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, gained 0.6
percent after  oil prices  advanced.  “Some people had expected further monetary easing, but
Chairman Bernanke didn’t mention it,” said Hiroichi Nishi, an
equities manager in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “There
are concerns about a slowdown in the global economy, including
the U.S.”  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
June closed at 9,415 in Chicago yesterday, compared with 9,450
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,420 in
Osaka, at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index were little changed today.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent
today. In  New York  yesterday, the index fell for a fifth day,
the longest slump for the S&P in almost a year, sliding 0.1
percent to its lowest level since March 18. Bernanke yesterday
said the central bank should maintain record monetary stimulus
to boost an “uneven” and “frustratingly slow” economic
recovery.  Asset Purchases  “While Bernanke’s comments suggest that the Fed will be
there to provide liquidity, I don’t think that his assessment is
that there will be additional asset purchases,” said Kevin Caron, a market strategist in  Florham Park ,  New Jersey , at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co, which has $115 billion in client assets.
“The market reacted to the absence of direct commitment to
quantitative easing.”  The  S&P 500  has fallen 4.5 percent over the past five days
as signs of a slowing economy spurred concern analyst estimates
for 20 percent earnings growth this year are too optimistic.
Recent data showing weakness in the economy, including an
increase in the  unemployment rate  to 9.1 percent in May, has
raised the odds the Fed will hold the benchmark interest rate
near zero into next year.  Yen Rises  The dollar fell against most of its major counterparts. The
Japanese currency reached the strongest level against the
greenback in a month as Bernanke spoke to bankers in Atlanta.
The yen appreciated to as high as 79.98 against the dollar today
in  Tokyo , compared with 80.31 at the close of stock trading
yesterday, cutting the value of overseas earnings at Japanese
companies when repatriated.  Crude oil for July delivery yesterday settled at $99.09 a
barrel in New York, the first gain in three days amid
speculation that an increase in OPEC production quotas will
reduce spare capacity and cause tight supplies when demand
rebounds.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six metals
including copper and aluminum rose for a third day yesterday.
Gold futures for August delivery slumped 0.2 percent to settle
at $1,544 in New York yesterday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 2.9 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 2.2 percent by the
S&P 500 and a drop of 1.4 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.5 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.9 times for the S&P 500
and 11 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 