-- 
Japan Won’t Intervene on Yen Unless Speculation Grows, Currency Panel Says

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-06-07T16:48:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/japan-won-t-intervene-on-yen-unless-speculation-grows-currency-panel-says.html
Japanese officials won’t intervene
further in the  currency market  unless they see evidence of
speculative buying strengthening the yen, according to Naomi Fink, head of  Japan  strategy at Jefferies Japan Ltd.  Japan’s Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Japan won’t
repeat their tactic of selling yen in an effort to weaken the
currency, as they did in March following the nation’s worst
earthquake, unless it becomes clear that market activity is
being driven by speculators instead of institutional investment,
Fink said during Bloomberg Link’s Japan Conference in New York.  “The interventions seem to be targeted specifically to
when speculative activity is dominating the market, not at
specific levels,” Fink said.  The yen dipped below 80 versus the dollar yesterday,
increasing speculation the  Bank of Japan  would intervene, as it
did March 18 in conjunction with other Group of Seven nations.
The yen surged following the earthquake, reaching a post-World
War II high of 76.25 March 17, amid speculation Japanese
investors would repatriate assets to pay for reconstruction.  Japan won’t intervene unless there is another large shock,
according to Hugh Patrick, director of the Center on Japanese
Economy and Business at the  Columbia Business School . Patrick
also spoke at the Japan Conference.  The yen will remain more attractive than the dollar as the
U.S. utilizes policies that equate to the monetization of the
nation’s debt, Milton Ezrati, senior economic strategist at Lord
Abbett & Co., said at the event.  He also said  Europe ’s debt crisis makes the yen attractive
versus the euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  