-- 
Jethro Tull’s Anderson Still Not Satisfied With 1971 ‘Aqualung’: Interview

-- B y   J a m e s   M .   C l a s h
-- 
2011-06-07T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/jethro-tull-s-anderson-still-not-satisfied-with-1971-aqualung-.html
When you discuss “Aqualung” with
 Jethro Tull  frontman Ian Anderson, you quickly realize that the
63-year-old Scot is still miffed about the way the iconic 1971
album turned out.  The London recording studio the band used was a converted
church that was “big, echoey, daunting and rather dark,”
according to Anderson.  “It had all the ghosts of its past, and plenty of
technical problems,” says the singer/flutist. “At the end of
the sessions, I wasn’t sure what we’d got. It’s a bit like an
old photograph; you know it’s in the camera, but you don’t know
what the picture is until it’s developed. There’s the feeling
you might just have a bit of black film.”  Despite Anderson’s reservations, “Aqualung” went on to
become the group’s signature work, selling more than 7 million
copies worldwide. In 2003,  Rolling Stone  magazine ranked it
337th on its list of the best 500 albums of all time, ahead of
the Doors’s “L.A. Woman” and  Bruce Springsteen ’s “Greetings
From Asbury Park.”  To celebrate the 40th anniversary of ``Aqualung,'' the band
is launching a 15-city  North American tour  tomorrow at the Red
Rocks Amphitheatre in Morrison,  Colorado . Longtime members
Anderson and Martin Barre, the lead guitarist who joined in
1969, will be accompanied by more recent members Doane Perry
(drums), David Goodier (bass) and John O’Hara (keyboards). The
entire album will be played at each venue.  Remixed CD  An “Aqualung” collectors CD is also being released, in
remixed form.  “It wasn’t a great sounding album,” Anderson told me
recently by phone from his home in  England . “A few weeks ago, I
heard some of the tracks digitally remixed from the original
masters by somebody with a fresh pair of ears. He kept the
feeling of the original, but gave it a lot more weight, made it
sound more solid and clear.”  In 1971, “Aqualung” was a big departure from mainstream
pop -- and from Jethro Tull’s previous blues-oriented releases
such as “Stand Up” and “Benefit.”  “Aqualung” combined elements of jazz, classical, hard
rock and blues. Critics dubbed it a concept album because many
songs were related thematically and musically, as in The Who’s
rock opera “Tommy.” The plight of the underprivileged was
explored in the songs “Aqualung,” “Cross-Eyed Mary” and “Up
To Me,” while “Hymn 43” and “My God” were critical of
organized religion.  Rowdy Fans  Anderson, who had scraggly shoulder-length hair in his
heyday, is now bald with a neatly trimmed goatee. But he’s still
very opinionated. For instance, he rejects the “concept” label
for “Aqualung.”  “It’s an album of contrast, full of brave dynamic
variations across the board -- from big electric guitar riffs to
sensitive little acoustic guitar and vocal passages with a
string quartet,” he says. “Lyrically it varies from being
angry socially to whimsical, slightly surreal moments like in
‘Mother Goose.’”  Anderson has little patience with critics or rowdy fans.  “It’s particularly disheartening when I’m trying to play
the intro to ‘My God’ and someone is hooting over something that
is, to me, a very important part of the song,” he says. “It’s
not a football match. And if that sounds a bit snobbish, then
tough.”  Though Jethro Tull has sold over 50 million albums since
1968 and still performs more than 100 concerts a year, the band
isn’t in the  Rock & Roll Hall of Fame .  “I’ve always thought it is primarily to celebrate American
music,” Anderson says of the Hall. “There are a lot more
deserving American artists who should be in before British
bands. I want to see Captain Beefheart there before Jethro
Tull.”  The band may not be in the Hall of Fame, but one of
Anderson’s outfits is.  “A mannequin with my stage clothes is standing next to one
of Rod Stewart,” he says. “I remember thinking, ‘Either we had
a very bad dry cleaner or the Hall of Fame has a bad one,
because the stuff looks impossibly small.’”  (James M. Clash writes on adventure for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.  To contact the writer on the story:
James M. Clash at  jclash@explorers.org   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 