-- 
Job Openings in U.S. Decreased in April for First Time in Three Months

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-07T20:15:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/job-openings-in-u-s-fell-by-151-000-to-2-97-million-in-april.html
Job openings in the U.S. decreased in
April for the first time in three months, showing companies
started to lose confidence in the expansion’s durability even
before hiring slumped in May.  The number of positions waiting to be filled fell by
151,000 to 2.97 million, the fewest since January, the Labor
Department said today in a statement posted on its website. The
number of people hired and the number of workers fired also
decreased.  The  unemployment rate  rose to 9.1 percent in May while
employers added the fewest workers in eight months, Labor
Department data showed last week. More job gains are needed to
drive  consumer spending  after economic growth slowed in the
beginning of the year.  “We’ve got a very weak, very mild recovery, which does not
create enough demand for labor,” said Henry Mo, an economist at
Credit Suisse in  New York . “Even if all the open positions were
filled overnight, we’d still have almost 11 million workers
without jobs.”  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke today said the
jobs data is among recent indicators showing the world’s largest
economy had “lost momentum” recently, and said the central
bank should maintain record monetary stimulus to boost an
“uneven” and “frustratingly slow” recovery.  Bernanke’s View  “Until we see a sustained period of stronger  job creation ,
we cannot consider the recovery to be truly established,”
Bernanke said in a speech to a conference in Atlanta.  Another report today showed consumer borrowing rose in
April for a seventh consecutive month, led by a gain in non-
revolving debt, including auto and student loans. Credit rose by
$6.25 billion after a revised $4.82 billion gain in March that
was smaller than the previous estimate, the Fed said in
Washington.  Stocks erased earlier gains following Bernanke’s comments.
The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index fell 0.1 percent to 1,284.94 at
the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Job openings decreased 4.8 percent in April from a revised
3.12 million in March, the Labor Department report showed.  Industry Breakdown  The loss in vacancies was led by a 91,000 decrease in
professional and business services, followed by a 65,000 drop in
education and health services. The  construction industry  had a
28,000 increase in openings in April.  Today’s report helps shed light on the dynamics behind the
monthly employment figures. Payrolls rose in May by 54,000 after
a 232,000 gain the prior month, Labor Department figures showed
on June 3.  Employers took on 3.97 million workers in April, or 95,000
less than the previous month, according to today’s report. Total
separations, which include retirements and those who left their
jobs voluntarily, decreased to 3.74 million from 3.8 million a
month before. The number of firings fell to 1.53 million from
1.61 million.  In the 12 months ended in April, the economy created a net
1.2 million jobs, representing about 47.7 million hires,
compared with about 46.4 million separations, today’s report
showed.  Workers Per Job  Compared with the 13.8 million Americans who were
unemployed in April, today’s figures indicate there were 4.6
people vying for every opening, up from about 1.8 when the
recession began in December 2007. The number of jobless rose to
13.9 million in May, pushing the unemployment rate up to 9.1
percent from 9 percent the previous month, the Labor Department
reported last week.  May’s employment figures imply the  Federal Reserve  will
keep its benchmark interest rate near zero into next year and
pose a challenge to President  Barack Obama , whose re-election
prospects depend on pushing the jobless rate lower.  “The current accommodative stance of U.S. monetary policy
continues to be appropriate because the unemployment rate
remains elevated and inflation is expected to remain subdued
over the medium run,” Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said in a
Tokyo speech last week.  Companies still reducing their workforce include H.J. Heinz
Co., the world’s biggest ketchup maker, which in May announced
plans to slash as many as 1,000 jobs worldwide and close five
factories.  Dean Foods Co ., the largest U.S. milk processor, said
it cut 600 positions last quarter and 140 early this quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  