-- 
Katainen Turns to Euro-Skeptics Amid Impasse

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-06-07T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/katainen-turns-to-euro-skeptics-amid-finnish-government-impasse.html
Finland ’s inability to form a
government almost two months after elections is forcing the head
of coalition talks to return to bailout-skeptic parties as he
approaches a June 10 deadline for reaching an agreement.  “I will try to find a new basis for the government by
Friday,” Jyrki Katainen, who as leader of the biggest party
since April 17 elections is heading government talks, said in an
interview in Helsinki yesterday. “I’ll talk with everybody and
I’ll try to find a majority government. It’s impossible to say
right now what will be the outcome.”  The stalemate comes after Katainen last month ensured
parliament approved a bailout for  Portugal  before starting
coalition talks, a move he pushed through to prevent the euro-
skeptic True Finns from blocking a rescue. His failure since to
secure majority backing in coalition talks means it’s now an
“open question” whether Finland can support additional aid to
 Greece , Katainen said.  The deadlock was “inevitable,” True Finns leader Timo Soini said in an interview yesterday. “The negotiations have
failed two times.” Katainen “has one more chance,” he said.  If Katainen fails to find a majority, Social Democrat
leader Jutta Urpilainen will head a new round of talks, after
her party came second in the April elections. The Social
Democrats, while backing Portugal’s rescue package, have said
they want bondholders to share losses and are calling for asset
sales and other conditions for any future aid.  ‘Hold Its Breath’  “ Europe  will have to hold its breath for a little while
longer, until these negotiations have been seen through,” Teija
Tiilikainen, director of the Finnish Institute of International
Affairs in Helsinki, said by phone. “The True Finns have
managed to shake up Finland’s European Union stance.”  The northernmost euro member’s inability to form a pro-
bailout government comes as Greece is seeking a second rescue
package to avert a default. The size of that aid program hasn’t
been decided yet, French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  told
reporters in  New Delhi  yesterday.  Any package “will include privatization, voluntary
private-sector involvement, an added rescue package that will be
borne by the members of the euro zone, the  International
Monetary Fund , and clearly the guidance of the  European Central
Bank ,” Lagarde said.  Support for the True Finns rose by almost 15 percentage
points to 19 percent in the April 17 election, after Soini
promised to prevent taxpayer funds contributing to more
bailouts. Katainen’s pro-Europe National Coalition won 20.4
percent and the Social Democrats got 19.1 percent support.  True Finns Gain  The True Finns would be the country's second-biggest party
if elections were held now, according to a YLE poll published
June 1. The party enjoys backing from 20.6 percent of voters,
compared with 21.5 percent for Katainen's National Coalition,
the YLE poll showed.  Six-party talks collapsed on June 1 as the  Social Democrats  
and  Left Alliance  quit over disagreements on taxes and borrowing.   A Finnish government with the Social Democrats and the
True Finns would mean “Finland’s stance would be harsher” on 
bailouts, said Pasi Kuoppamaeki, chief economist at Danske Bank 
A/S’s Finnish unit Sampo Bank. “Additional funding for Greece 
will be some sort of a touchstone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  