-- 
Kingate Funds to Be Sued for $975 Million by Madoff Liquidation Trustee

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-07T18:56:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/kingate-funds-to-be-sued-for-975-million-by-madoff-liquidation-trustee.html
Kingate Global Fund Ltd., Kingate
Euro Fund Ltd. and other defendants will be sued for $975
million by the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s investment
firm, according to a court filing.  Trustee Irving Picard today got permission from Judge
 Burton Lifland  to file a new complaint against the two so-called
feeder funds who invested with the con man, according to a law
clerk for Lifland. Picard originally sued the funds in 2009,
claiming $255 million that he said they withdrew before Madoff’s
arrest in December 2008. The funds are being liquidated in the
British Virgin Islands.  Picard’s proposed complaint names Federico Ceretti and
Carlo Grosso, “Italian nationals operating from  England ” who
funneled about $1.7 billion of investors’ money to Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme from 1994 through the Kingate funds, which they set
up and ran, he said. Ceretti, Grosso and the funds should have
known of Madoff’s fraud and must return $975 million they
redeemed, Picard said in the proposed, 129-page suit.  “These avoidable transfers to the Kingate funds are
customer property that must be returned to the estate,” he
said.  William Tacon of Zolfo Cooper, a liquidator for the funds,
declined to comment on Picard’s pending suit. The document,
attached to a request to Lifland for permission to file it, also
names investment firm FIM Advisers LLP, run by Ceretti and
Grosso, along with trusts and HSBC Bank Bermuda Ltd.  Antony Zacaroli, a lawyer for FIM, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  The case is Picard v. Ceretti, 09-cv-1161, U.S. bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 