-- 
North Korea’s New Economic Zone Near Border Signals Deepening China Ties

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-06-07T02:13:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/n-korea-setting-up-economiz-zone-near-china.html
North Korea said it will set up a new
economic zone near its border with  China , signaling the nation’s
deepening dependence on its economic benefactor after leader  Kim Jong Il ’s three visits there in the past year.  The Hwanggumphyong and Wihwa Islands Economic Zone will be
set up to “boost friendship with China and expand and develop
external economic relations,” North Korea’s state-run Korean
Central News Agency said late yesterday, citing a parliamentary
decree. The report didn’t elaborate on the development plans.  The announcement is the clearest sign yet that Kim may have
won China’s pledge for further economic cooperation during his
last trip in May, according to analysts including Cho Bong Hyun
of the Seoul-based IBK Economic Research Institute. China last
year accounted for 83 percent of  North Korea ’s $4.2 billion of
trade as global sanctions left the regime increasingly isolated.  “It appears Kim has succeeded in winning support from
Chinese authorities for developing the area, even though the
zone seems to have few immediate investment merits for China,”
Cho said today by phone. “Economic cooperation between the two
countries will further accelerate.”  North Korea could develop Hwanggumphyong, near its western
border with China, into an industrial complex for Chinese
companies, similar to the one in Gaeseong where South Korean
firms operate using North Korean labor, Cho said. North Korea is
also developing the city of Rason on the east coast into a
“center for foreign trade.”  ‘Strong as Ever’  China would be much more interested in investing in Rason,
which has ports facing the  Pacific Ocean , said Kim Yong Hyun, a
professor of North Korean studies at Seoul-based  Dongguk
University . It may take a long time until China starts investing
in Hwanggumphyong, he said.  “North Korea wants to show off to the world that its ties
with China are as strong as ever,” Dongguk’s Kim said. “China
has nothing to lose at this point for pledging investment that
won’t happen for a long time.”  The Gaeseong industrial complex is the only project  South
Korea  runs with North Korea after President  Lee Myung Bak  in May
last year cut off trade, accusing Kim’s regime of torpedoing a
warship that claimed the lives of 46 sailors. The North was also
put under tougher United Nations sanctions banning arms trade
and restricting financial transactions after its second nuclear
test in May 2009.  North Korean dependence on China will increase as long as
global sanctions are in place, the Seoul-based Korea Trade-
Investment Promotion Agency, or Kotra, said on May 27 in
releasing the figures. North Korea doesn’t release its own data.  Overseas sales of coal, North Korea’s No. 1 export item
jumped 50 percent in value from a year earlier, while exports of
steel grew 59 percent, Kotra said. Exports of other  mineral
resources  gained 80 percent.  Fuel including crude oil was the biggest import, increasing
52 percent from a year earlier. North Korean machinery purchases
rose 38 percent, while imports of electrical appliances gained
43 percent, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  