-- 
NATO Raids Tripoli as Qaddafi Makes First Televised Address in Three Weeks

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-06-07T16:21:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/nato-jets-conduct-daytime-raids-on-tripoli-to-increase-pressure-on-qaddafi.html
NATO jets conducted daytime strikes
on the Libyan capital, Tripoli, as the alliance sought to step
up pressure on Muammar Qaddafi’s regime, while Libyan state
television broadcast his first words for more than three weeks.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization planes hit targets
included command-and-control centers today, an alliance official
said by phone from the mission headquarters in Naples,  Italy .
Low-flying aircraft carried out at least 27 strikes around
Qaddafi’s compound, the  Associated Press  reported.  “We are steadily intensifying the military, economic and
diplomatic pressure,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told
lawmakers in the House of Commons in  London . “The Qaddafi
regime is isolated and on the defensive.”  NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said yesterday
Qaddafi’s days in power were numbered after ruling Libya for 42
years. He urged world leaders to begin planning for the regime’s
downfall. Qaddafi remains in control of Tripoli in the west even
though rebels are running most of eastern Libya.  The Libyan leader expressed defiance in an audio broadcast
on state television today, saying that “we are stronger than
their missiles, stronger than their planes.”  Qaddafi called on Libyans to combat armed gangs and said
“martyrdom is a million times better” than surrender. The
comments were carried on Al Arabiya television. It was Qaddafi’s
first broadcast since May 13, when he contradicted reports that
he had been injured in NATO bombing.  Secret Police  Military commanders have increasingly focused attacks on
the capital in the past few days, the NATO official said,
declining to be identified in compliance with alliance policy.
Royal Air Force planes struck  Libya ’s secret police headquarters
and a major military installation on the outskirts of Tripoli
yesterday and overnight, according to the U.K.’s Ministry of
Defense.  Airstrikes in the past month have pushed Qaddafi loyalists
out of the western port city of Misrata, which is in rebel
hands, and aided some of their gains in the Berber highlands in
the west. Jalal el-Gallal, a spokesman for the rebels’ National
Transitional Council, said fighters “completely liberated” the
western mountain town of Yefren yesterday.  Qaddafi has also been harried by defections. Libyan
generals, two colonels and a major defected to rebel forces at
the end of May, bringing the total of Libyan army officers who
have left Qaddafi to 120, Libya’s former ambassador to the
 United Nations , Abdel Rahman Shalgham, said on May 30.  Satellite Shutdown  Hague said satellite broadcasters should stop transmitting
Libyan state TV to further weaken the grip of the regime.  “On May 17, Arabsat joined European satellite companies in
suspending Libyan state television broadcasts, a significant
blow to Qaddafi’s ability to carry out psychological warfare,”
Hague told lawmakers. “We press all satellite companies to take
similar action.”  The Libyan leader may be stepping up efforts to find a
settlement. Libyan Foreign Minister Abdul Ati Al-Obeidi arrived
in  China  today for a three-day visit, after China yesterday
confirmed its diplomats had met with rebel leaders.  Al-Obeidi’s itinerary includes a meeting with his Chinese
counterpart, ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in
Beijing today. Hong said yesterday that diplomats from the
Chinese Embassy in  Egypt  recently met officials from the Libyan
rebel Interim Transitional National Council in Benghazi.  OPEC Output  Oil fell to a two-week low on speculation that OPEC may
raise output quotas when the group meets in Vienna tomorrow.
Futures slipped as much as 1.3 percent after a Gulf delegate
with knowledge of the matter said the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will increase output targets to help replace
missing supplies from Libya and meet demand growth this year.  Crude for July delivery dropped $1, or 1 percent, to $98.01
a barrel at 9:58 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract touched $97.74, the lowest price since May 24. Oil is
up 37 percent the past year.  Defense ministers from the 28-member alliance begin a two-
day meeting tomorrow in Brussels and will discuss progress in
the UN-mandated mission in Libya. U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  will make his final appearance before leaving office at
the end of this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  