-- 
Natural Gas Gains in New York on Forecasts of Hotter-than-Normal Weather

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-06-07T19:15:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/natural-gas-gains-in-new-york-on-forecasts-of-hotter-than-normal-weather.html
Natural gas futures advanced for a
second day in New York on forecasts of above-normal temperatures
that may boost demand for the power-plant fuel.  Gas rose to a 10-month high after forecasters including the
 National Weather Service  in Mount Holly,  New Jersey , said
temperatures along the U.S. East Coast may climb toward 100
degrees Fahrenheit (38 Celsius) tomorrow and bake the region for
the rest of the week.  “The weather’s still hot, and that kind of remains the
main driver,” said Kyle Cooper, director of research at IAF
Advisors in Houston. “Mother nature’s been a huge bullish
factor.”  Natural gas for July delivery rose 0.4 cent to $4.831 per
million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , settling at the highest price since July 30 for the
second straight day. Gas has gained 9.7 percent this year.  The Relative Strength Index for gas reached 66.682
yesterday, according to Bloomberg data. Some technical analysts
use the index to track how rapidly prices gain or retreat. A
reading above 70 suggests prices may fall.  An excessive heat watch, meaning conditions are expected to
become dangerous, has been issued for eastern  Pennsylvania ,
including Philadelphia, and western New Jersey starting
tomorrow, according to the National Weather Service.  Hot Weather  The high temperature in Houston,  Texas , on June 12 may be
96 degrees Fahrenheit, 6 above normal, according to  AccuWeather
Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania. The high in  Washington  may
be 87 degrees, 4 above normal.  “Peak heat days are today and tomorrow in the Midwest and
tomorrow to Thursday for the East Coast, but Friday is inching
up hotter for the East Coast, too,” Commodity Weather Group LLC
President  Matt Rogers  said in a note to clients today.  Cooling demand in the U.S. may be 11 percent above normal
on June 12, according to Weather Derivatives in Belton,
 Missouri .  Power plants use about 30 percent of the nation’s gas
supplies, according to the Energy Department.  An area of showers and thunderstorms over the northwestern
Caribbean Sea has a 10 percent chance of becoming a cyclone
within the next 48 hours, according to the National Hurricane
Center. Wind conditions are becoming less favorable for
development, the hurricane center said in a  tropical weather
outlook  released at 2 p.m. today in Miami.  The  Gulf of Mexico  accounts for about 8.4 percent of
natural gas gross production in the U.S., according to the
Energy Department.  Gas Production  Gross output includes gas used for repressuring, quantities
vented and flared, and non-hydrocarbon gas removed in treating
or processing operations.  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  plans to start exporting liquefied
natural gas from its  Louisiana  terminal in 2015, Chairman Charif Souki said at the Asia Oil and Gas Conference in  Kuala Lumpur 
today. The company may get Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
approval this year to build a facility at the site that can
liquefy gas for export by tankers, he said.  Marketed gas production will average 64.61 billion cubic
feet a day in 2011, up 2.2 percent from 63.23 billion estimated
in May, the Energy Department said in its monthly  Short-Term
Energy Outlook , released today in Washington. The estimate is up
4.5 percent from 61.83 billion produced in 2010.  Total gas consumption will average 67.06 billion cubic feet
a day, up from 66.48 billion estimated in May.  Gas prices at the benchmark Henry Hub in Erath, Louisiana,
will average $4.25 per million Btu this year, up from the
previous estimate of $4.24, according to the department.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
334,094 as of 2:38 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 315,000. Volume was 372,195 yesterday. Open interest was
973,450 contracts. The three-month average open interest is
940,000.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  