-- 
NBC, ABC Get Closer to Completing Ad Sales for Next TV Season

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-06-07T23:30:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/nbc-abc-get-closer-to-completing-upfront-ad-sales-for-next-tv-season.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s ABC broadcast networks are getting closer to wrapping up
commitments from advertisers for the television season that
starts in September.  NBC is averaging 9 percent rate increases and is two-thirds
done with the so-called upfront process through which
advertisers reserve space on prime-time shows, a person with
knowledge of the sales said. ABC is averaging 10 percent to 11
percent price gains and and is almost finished, said another
person, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  The results are in line with the networks’ ratings
performance. NBC, the laggard among the Big Four, is capturing
the smallest rate increase.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox, the leader in the
18-49 age group sought by advertisers, drew gains of 10 percent
to 11 percent, a person said last week. CBS, which attracts the
biggest overall audience, is averaging increases of 14 percent
to 15 percent, a person said June 3.  Introducing its first prime-time schedule under Comcast
ownership, NBC said last month it would add 12 shows to its
schedule, including the police drama “Prime Suspect” featuring
Maria Bello, in a bid to climb out of fourth.  The NBC lineup will also include “The Playboy Club” from
producer Brian Grazer, and the Lorne Michaels comedy “Up All
Night,” and “Smash,” a musical drama about Broadway theater.  NBC, which today won the bidding rights to four  Olympic
Games  starting in 2014, averages the fewest prime-time viewers
ages 18 to 49 and the smallest overall audience of the Big Four,
according to Nielsen Co. data.  ABC Shows  ABC, third in both the overall audience and 18-49, is
adding eight dramas and five comedies next season, the first
lineup from its new entertainment president, Paul Lee.  A remake of the 1970s “Charlie’s Angels” and “Once Upon
a Time,” from “Lost” producers Adam Horowitz and Edward
Kitsis, will join a lineup with “Modern Family” and “Cougar
Town.”  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , has charged Lee with
rekindling prime-time ratings at its flagship broadcast network
after he developed popular shows at the ABC Family cable
channel.  The company, also the owner of theme parks and ESPN, fell 5
cents to $39.35 today in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares have gained 4.9 percent this year.
Philadelphia-based Comcast added 10 cents to $24.02 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading and has risen 9.3 percent this year.  Fox, which has led in the 18-49 age group for seven years,
received commitments for about 80 percent of its inventory, or
almost $2 billion in sales, the person said on June 2. CBS was
still selling, a person said June 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  