-- 
NBC Said to Average 9% Advertising Rate Increase for Coming TV Season

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-06-07T19:32:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/nbc-said-to-average-9-advertising-rate-increase-for-coming-tv-season.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC is averaging
advertising-rate increases of about 9 percent ahead of the
broadcast television season that starts in September, said a
person with knowledge of the sales.  NBC is about two-thirds through the so-called upfront
process, during which advertisers make commitments for next
season’s primetime shows, said the person, who wasn’t authorized
to speak publicly.  NBC, the ratings laggard among the four biggest networks,
is capturing a smaller increase than  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox, the
leader in the 18-49 age group sought by advertisers, and CBS,
which draws the biggest overall audience. Fox became the first
network to complete advance sales, a person with knowledge of
the situation said on June 2.  Introducing its first primetime schedule under Comcast
ownership, NBC said last month it would add 12 shows to its
schedule, including the police drama “Prime Suspect” featuring
Maria Bello, in a bid to climb out of fourth place.  The lineup will also include “The Playboy Club” from
producer Brian Grazer, and the Lorne Michaels comedy “Up all
Night,” and “Smash,” a musical drama about a Broadway
theater.  NBC, which today won the bidding rights to four  Olympic
Games  starting in 2014, averages the fewest primetime viewers
ages 18 to 49 and the smallest overall audience of the Big Four,
which also include  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC.  Fox, which has led in the 18-49 group for seven years, drew
price gains of 10 percent to 11 percent and received commitments
for about 80 of its inventory, or almost $2 billion in sales,
the person said.  CBS Corp. (CBS)  was obtaining price increases of 14 percent to 15
percent and still selling, a person with knowledge of the
situation said on June 3.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, added 28 cents to $24.20 at
3:13 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The
shares added 8.9 percent this year before today.  --. Editors: Anthony Palazzo, Niamh Ring  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  