-- 
Wholesale Grocery Owner Gets 20-Year Sentence in $930 Million Ponzi Scam

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-06-08T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/nevin-shapiro-gets-20-years-in-880-million-ponzi-scheme.html
Nevin Shapiro , the former owner of a
bogus wholesale-grocery distribution business who pleaded guilty
to running an $930 million  Ponzi scheme , was given a 20-year
prison term.  U.S. District Judge Susan Wigenton, sentenced Shapiro in
federal court in  Newark , New Jersey, where he pleaded guilty on
Sept. 15. Prosecutors yesterday raised their estimate of the
fraud from $880 million to $930 million. The judge ordered
Shapiro, of Miami Beach,  Florida , to pay $82.7 million in
restitution.  Shapiro, 42, admitted he defrauded more than 50 investors
who lost between $50 million and $100 million in his Capitol
Investments USA Inc. He said he used new investors’ money to pay
earlier ones, as well as to fund a lavish lifestyle.  “Nevin Shapiro used other people’s money to live a fantasy
life built on false promises to unsuspecting victims,” said
U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman in a statement. “Today’s sentence
reflects the scope of his deception, duping victims to invest in
nearly a billion dollars.”  Capitol Investments, based in  Miami Beach , was a so-called
grocery diverter, which buys low-priced food in one region and
sells it for a profit elsewhere, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission said.  Gambling Debts  Shapiro admitted to stealing $35 million to pay illegal
gambling debts, make mortgage payments on a $5 million house,
and buy floor seats to Miami Heat basketball games. Shapiro, who
gave $150,000 to the  University of Miami  for an athletic lounge,
said he gave cash or gifts to dozens of student-athletes.  Under a plea agreement, Shapiro’s lawyers and prosecutors
agreed not to ask the judge for a sentence outside a range of
168 months to 210 months. While Shapiro’s lawyer asked for 168
months, and prosecutors sought 210 months, Wigenton imposed a
sentence of 240 months.  “I think his sentence was excessive considering the plea
agreement,” Maria Elena Perez, Shapiro’s attorney, said in an
interview after the hearing. “Nevin accepts responsibility for
what he did. Nevin has spent the last year in jail trying to
make everybody whole again.”  She said Shapiro has been cooperating with prosecutors.  Shapiro pleaded guilty to one count of  securities fraud  and
one count of  money laundering .  Shapiro, who has been in jail since his arrest in April
2010, told investors from January 2005 to November 2009 that
their money would fund his grocery business, according to an
indictment.  Made Promises  He promised returns of 10 percent to 26 percent in a
company that he said had tens of millions of dollars in annual
sales, when in truth, “Capitol had virtually no active
wholesale grocery business,” according to court papers.  In a related civil case, the SEC estimated Shapiro raised
about $900 million and said he used $769 million of incoming
funds to pay returns to earlier investors.  He also paid $13 million in undisclosed commissions and
fees to individuals who attracted other investors, according to
the SEC.  Investors forced Capitol into involuntary bankruptcy, the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  has said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Shapiro, 10-cr-00471, U.S.
District Court, District of  New Jersey  (Newark). The SEC case is
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Shapiro, 10-cv-21281, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 