-- 
New York City Capital-Spending Cut Risks Its Infrastructure, Builders Say

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-06-07T19:42:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/new-york-city-capital-spending-cut-risks-its-infrastructure-builders-say.html
New York City ’s proposed 24 percent
decrease in  capital spending  during the next four years may harm
its economy and infrastructure, said Richard Anderson, president
of the New York Building Congress.  To pay for maintenance, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  should seek
new or increased charges for sanitation services, some park use,
roads, bridges and parking, and a tax on sugared drinks, said
Anderson, who leads an  association  of 400 developers,
construction companies, unions and vendors.  “A system of dedicated user fees, with clearly defined and
direct benefits to users, can ensure the stability and strength
of the schools, roads and parks that undergird the city’s
economy,” Anderson said in a  memorandum  to his membership
posted on the Building Congress website today.  The mayor’s  five-year spending plan , including a $65.7
billion budget for fiscal 2012, predicts that debt service will
consume nearly 16 percent of  tax revenue  by 2015, up from about
13 percent this year. The ratio of debt service to tax revenue
is one of several measures by which credit rating firms assess
municipal credit, Anderson said.  The  capital-spending  reduction is a 10 percent cut from
what the city intended to spend under a previous 10-year plan,
said  Marc LaVorgna , a mayoral spokesman. A deficit of more than
$3 billion in fiscal 2012 made it necessary, he said.  “The mayor has overseen the largest capital-investment
program in the city’s history and we are going to continue to
have record-level investments because we are continuing to build
for the future,” LaVorgna said in an e-mail. “We don’t have a
blank check to spend.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  