-- 
NFL Team Owners Ask Trial Court to Throw Out Players’ Antitrust Lawsuit

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-06-07T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/nfl-team-owners-ask-trial-court-to-throw-out-players-antitrust-lawsuit.html
National Football League  team owners
asked a judge to throw out a lawsuit filed by players who accuse
the league of violating federal antitrust laws.  The NFL owners filed a two-page dismissal request yesterday
with U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson in  St. Paul ,
Minnesota, just three days after they asked a federal appeals
court in  St. Louis  to overturn Nelson’s April 25 order directing
them to end their player lockout.  “It is baseless,” James W. Quinn, a lawyer for players,
said of the request.  Ten players led by New England Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady  sued the league on March 11 after negotiations on a new
collective bargaining agreement failed and the National Football
League Players Association announced it would no longer function
as a union. NFL owners declared the lockout at midnight that
night.  The New York-based league is the wealthiest in U.S. pro
sports. At issue in the dispute between players and owners is
how to divide about $9 billion in revenue, plus an extension of
the season from 16 to 18 games and a rookie salary cap.  While Nelson ordered league owners to end their lockout,
during which players are barred from accessing team training
facilities, coaches and staff, the appellate court on May 16
granted the NFL’s request to delay enforcement of her ruling
until it decides the underlying appeal.  Antitrust Ploy  On June 3, attorneys for the league told the three-judge
 U.S. Court of Appeals  panel that the players’ disavowal of their
union was a ploy to avoid antitrust law exemptions that were in
effect during labor negotiations.  “This is a labor dispute, not an antitrust problem,” Paul D. Clement, a lawyer for the owners, told the appeals court,
arguing the issue belongs before the  National Labor Relations
Board , not the courts.  Players’ lawyer  Theodore Olson  countered that the league
engages in anticompetitive practices and that the players
preferred the protections of federal antitrust laws to those
afforded by being in a union.  “The players did not want to be in the union anymore,” he
said during the appellate argument.  Greg Aiello , a spokesman for the NFL, declined to comment
on the league’s filing yesterday.  The NFL has requested a hearing date of Sept. 12 and said
it would file papers supporting its dismissal request no later
than Aug. 1.  The lower court case is Brady v. National Football League,
11-cv-639, U.S. District Court, District of  Minnesota  (St.
Paul). The appellate case is Brady v. National Football League,
11-1898, 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  