-- 
Nintendo Shows High-Definition Console to Succeed Aging Market Leader Wii

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-06-07T17:31:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/nintendo-shows-high-definition-console-to-succeed-aging-market-leader-wii.html
Nintendo Co. unveiled its first high-
definition video-game console, to be used with a touch-screen
control pad, as the company prepares to replace its aging Wii
and defend its lead against old and new rivals.  The world’s largest maker of video-game players plans to
begin selling the WiiU next year, Nintendo said today at the
annual Electronic Entertainment Expo in  Los Angeles . The motion-
sensing device, using a proprietary optical format for games,
will be able to play all game titles made for the Wii, said
Reggie Fils-Aime, president of Nintendo America.  President Satoru Iwata is counting on the WiiU to revive
console sales for Kyoto, Japan-based Nintendo. While the company
said it sold more than 86 million units through April,
deliveries have been shrinking for two years. Makers of
dedicated hardware including Nintendo and  Sony Corp. (6758)  face added
competition from mobile device makers such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , and
from games played on social websites including Facebook.  “As an industry what we haven’t achieved yet is a game
platform that is equally satisfying for all players,” Iwata
said. “This is exactly what we intend to create with our
new home platform.”  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Kinect motion-sensing controller and
Sony’s Move motion controller, both introduced in the past year,
have spurred sales, according to industry tracker NPD Group.  Nintendo didn’t name a price for the new console, previously
referred to as “Project Café.” The controller has a front-
facing digital camera, and features a 6.2-inch touch screen,
shoulder firing pads, an expansion SD card slot and game
controls on a flat pad. It is the centerpiece of the company’s
turnaround strategy, company executives said.  Hide-and-Seek  With it, users are able to wirelessly connect to the
console and shift content back and forth from a large screen in
the living room to the smaller screen. Nintendo developers also
demonstrated games in which one person uses the touch screen for
cooperative play with up to four others using Wii remote
controls. This, for example, would allow one player in a hide-
and-seek game to see the whole maze, while her pursuers see only
their vantage point.  “The new platform will provide deeper game experiences
than what even the most passionate gamer have realized before,”
Iwata said. “It will let everyone see games in a different
way.”  Nintendo, projecting its first annual profit gain in three
years, has forecast sales of its handheld 3DS player to climb to
16 million units this fiscal year.  The company must woo casual users with technology that
differentiates it from competitors, Yuki Nakayasu, an analyst at
UBS AG in  Tokyo , said in a June 2 note to investors. He has a
“buy” rating on Nintendo’s shares.  Nintendo rose 40 yen to 17,950 yen today in  Osaka  and has
declined 25 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  