-- 
Nokia Debt Rating Cut to Lowest Investment Grade by Fitch

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-06-07T15:56:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/nokia-debt-rating-cut-to-lowest-investment-grade-by-fitch-on-market-share.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones, had its debt rating slashed to the lowest
investment grade at Fitch Ratings because of the declining
market share of the company’s Symbian smartphones.  The long-term rating was cut by two levels to BBB- with a
negative outlook, Fitch said today.  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s Investors Service, both lowered Espoo, Finland-based
Nokia’s rating this year to the fourth-lowest of their 10
investment-grade ratings, to A- for S&P and A3 for Moody’s.  Nokia on May 31 slumped to the lowest price in 13 years in
Helsinki trading after cutting its forecasts for the devices and
services unit on lower prices and competition from  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop is
readying a line of phones based on Microsoft Corp.’s Windows
Phone 7 operating system to replace the Symbian line. He expects
the new phones to debut by the end of this year.  “The downgrade and negative outlook reflect the serious
concerns Fitch has about the accelerating pace of the market
share erosion for Nokia’s Symbian handset business,” Fitch
analyst Stuart Reid said. “The pace of deterioration has picked
up since Nokia decided to switch to an alternative operating
system.”  Credit-default swaps on Nokia rose for a ninth day, surging
43 basis points to a record 213, according to CMA. The contracts
are up from 120 basis points May 30. An increase signals
deterioration in perceptions of  credit quality .  Windows Phones  Nokia would need to show steadier margins and “a degree of
sustainable profitability” as well as a good reception for the
Windows phones in order for Fitch to restore the outlook to
stable, the agency said.  Nokia’s smartphone market share has fallen by half, to 25.5
percent in the first quarter, from 50.8 percent in the second
quarter of 2007, according to Gartner Inc. Google’s Android
system, supported by dozens of vendors, has grown to become the
largest smartphone operating system with 36 percent of units
sold in the first quarter.  Nokia dropped 1.5 percent to 4.48 euros at the close in
Helsinki. The stock has lost about three-quarters of its value
since Apple’s 2007 introduction of the iPhone, which raised
consumer expectations for handsets that can handle corporate e-
mail and play movies.  ‘Increased Confidence’  Nokia was overtaken last quarter by Cupertino, California-
based Apple as the largest maker of mobile phones by revenue. On
Feb. 11, the day Nokia struck its agreement with Microsoft, the
Finnish company’s shares fell 14 percent.  Elop, who joined from Microsoft in September, told
investors on May 31 that he has “increased confidence” that
the company can ship its first Windows Phone in the final
quarter.  The lead time for establishing the Windows Phone range
“places an uncomfortably long phase of pressure on the existing
handset business and raises the specter of further cash flow
deterioration and increased leverage metrics beyond the end of
2011,” Fitch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  