-- 
Non-Common Forms of E. Coli Found More Often in U.S., CDC Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-06-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/non-common-forms-of-e-coli-found-more-often-in-u-s-cdc-says.html
The number of non-common forms  of E.
coli  rose last year in the U.S., overcoming the most frequently
detected strain in total cases, probably because of improved
testing, federal health officials said.  There were 442 cases of E. coli O157, previously the most
commonly detected type, and about 41 percent required medical
care, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  said in a
report . The other strains, which caused a similar toxin,
produced 451 cases, and 15 percent of those victims were
hospitalized, the CDC said. No cases were reported involving the
German strain that has hit at least 2,429 people, killing 23.  About 48 million Americans are sickened yearly in the U.S.
from contaminated food, with the most common cause being the
Salmonella bacteria, the CDC reported. While E. coli O157
infections have dropped by about 50 percent since 1997, rates of
Salmonella have remained the same, causing more hospitalizations
and deaths than any other foodborne illness.  “The tragic E. coli outbreak in  Europe  reminds us that
investing in prevention is the only way to provide the
protection consumers expect,” said Michael Taylor, the deputy
commissioner for foods at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration,
in a conference call yesterday following release of the Atlanta-
based CDC’s Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.  At least 674 people in  Germany  have developed a life-
threatening  complication  from the E. coli O104:H4 strain since
May 2, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention
and Control. The actual number of cases may be higher. That form
of the bug produces a toxin that attacks the kidneys and blood
vessels. Most cases have occurred in adult women.  Increased Testing  The U.S. has increased testing for non-O157 strains, which
would include the German strain, said Chris Braden, the acting
director of the CDC’s division of foodborne, waterborne and
environmental diseases.  “Pathogens change and emerge in different ways,” he said.
“Even though we don’t expect the outbreak to jump to us, we
need to invest in public health capacity.”  Salmonella hasn’t decreased in 15 years, the report found.
The bacteria caused most of the burden of foodborne illness in
2010, with 8,256 cases and 2,290 people hospitalized.  Salmonella and E. coli are different bacteria that are both
passed from the feces of people or animals to others. Salmonella
can be found in meats, eggs, fruits, and vegetables. Poultry is
the food most-associated with Salmonella outbreaks, according to
the CDC.  In 2010, contamination of chicken feed led to a recall of
500 million eggs. The tainted eggs were produced by Wright
County Eggs and Hillandale Farms of  Iowa . About 1,300 people
were sickened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 