-- 
Nortel Networks Asks Judges for Rules on How to Divide $4 Billion in Cash

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-07T22:49:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/nortel-asks-u-s-canadian-judges-for-rules-on-dividing-4-billion-in-cash.html
Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) ’s units in
 Canada  and the U.S. asked the judges overseeing their
bankruptcies to divide $4 billion, over the objections of the
company’s European affiliates who prefer a private arbitrator.  Nortel’s North American units are seeking an unfair
advantage over their European affiliates, a lawyer for the
Europeans said today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,
 Delaware .  A private arbitrator should decide how to split up the
money so that “no one would be perceived to have any home court
advantage,” said Derek J.T. Adler, a lawyer for 19 European
Nortel units that are in bankruptcy in the U.K. They are seeking
part of the $4 billion the U.S. units will have raised once they
finish liquidating their major businesses later this month.  “It is not just important to do justice but to be seen to
do justice,” Adler said.  Since filing for bankruptcy in the U.S., Canada and the
U.K., Nortel has sold almost all of its businesses, raising
about $3 billion to distribute to creditors. Later this month,
Nortel’s U.S. unit will hold an auction for more than 6,000
patents, with an opening bid by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  of $900 million.
That auction is the last major sale of Nortel’s assets.  Nortel was once the largest maker of telecommunications
equipment in  North America . The Toronto-based company filed for
bankruptcy in 2009, blaming its failure on competition from
lower-priced rivals and the slumping economy.  ‘Fair Shake’  The European units “believe they will not get a fair shake
before this court,” James Bromley, a Nortel attorney, said in
court. “And that is simply unfathomable.”  The European units claim Nortel owes them C$9.8 billion
($10.2 billion), according to court papers filed in Toronto,
where the parent is in bankruptcy. Judges in the U.S. and Canada
may decide whether those European claims are legitimate.  The two sides disagree about whether Nortel’s North
American units promised to let a private arbitrator oversee any
disputes about how to split sales proceeds. Adler said courts in
the U.K. and  France  assumed an arbitrator would split up the
sale proceeds when they made bankruptcy rulings shortly after
Nortel filed for court protection.  Bromley said an agreement among all of Nortel’s units that
has guided the company’s liquidation doesn’t require an
arbitrator.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington and Ontario
Superior Court Judge Geoffrey Morawetz, in Toronto, are holding
a joint hearing linked by video to decide whether they should
oversee the division and under what rules.  Nortel’s 6 7/8 percent bonds due 2023 fell as much as 1.8
percent before closing down less than 1 percent at 27.75 cents
on the dollar today, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  