-- 
Nuclear Stress Tests ‘First Step’ on Safety, Ministers Say

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-06-07T15:59:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/nuclear-stress-tests-first-step-on-safety-ministers-say.html
Safety checks on European nuclear
installations are a “first step” in preventing an atomic
accident on the scale of what happened in  Japan , according to
government officials.  The so-called stress tests which will be performed on
 Europe ’s 143 working reactors and other atomic installations
“are very important but not enough to tackle the issues of
nuclear safety,” Tamas Fellegi,  Hungary ’s Minister of National
Development, told a press conference in Paris today. A “global
approach” is needed to improve security, he said.  Fellegi spoke after government ministers and officials from
more than 30 countries met in the French capital to discuss
atomic energy safety following the reactor meltdown at the
Fukushima nuclear plant that released radioactivity into the
environment after a deadly earthquake and tsunami in Japan.  European Union countries have agreed to carry out so-called
stress tests on reactors following the disaster while Japan
announced today it plans a “fundamental revision” of its
nuclear safety regulations and will make its atomic regulator
independent of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry,
which promotes the use of nuclear technology.  “We are ready to work with the international community to
achieve the highest possible level of nuclear safety,” Hideichi
Okada, vice minister for international affairs at Japan’s
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, said in Paris. He said
Japan has been “trying to be as transparent as possible” about
the accident.  ‘No Debate’  “There was no debate” about decisions to continue backing
nuclear power, as in France, or phase it out as in the case of
 Germany , said French Environment Minister Nathalie Kosciusko- Morizet.  “The accident at Fukushima in Japan has affected us all,”
she said. “It quickly became apparent there is a need to learn
lessons from the accident and to improve and raise our standards
and ways of cooperating on nuclear safety.”  Ministers and officials today called for more international
peer reviews of nuclear safety reports by regulators in
individual countries. “We think peer reviews are very helpful.
They give a view that everything is done in a very professional
way,” said Swiss Energy Minister Doris Leuthard. “The Swiss
government would love that peer reviews are not only voluntary
but mandatory.”  Group of Eight leaders last month meeting in Deauville,
 France  agreed to consider tougher standards for building and
operating nuclear  power plants  in areas that may be prone to
events like earthquakes.  “We have to reinforce nuclear safety,” Luis Echavarri,
director general of the OECD’s Nuclear Energy Agency, said at
the press conference. “The release of radioactivity from the
nuclear accident at Fukushima was very important and
contaminated many areas and has shown the weaknesses of nuclear
power plants in some situations.”  He called on countries to “harmonize” safety checks on
installations globally.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 Tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 