-- 
Obama Adviser Goolsbee Resigning to Return to the University of Chicago

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-06-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/obama-adviser-goolsbee-is-returning-to-university-of-chicago-1-.html
Austan Goolsbee , President  Barack Obama ’s chief economist, is resigning from the administration
and returning to the University of  Chicago , the White House
announced yesterday.  Goolsbee, 41, chairman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers since September, has been on leave from his
post as an economics professor at the university’s Booth School
of Business while working for Obama. He will be back in Chicago
for the start of the school year, the White House said. No
replacement was named.  In a statement, the president called Goolsbee “one of
America’s great economic thinkers.”  Goolsbee is a longtime adviser to Obama, starting with his
run for the  U.S. Senate  from  Illinois  in 2004 through the 2008
presidential campaign. Goolsbee was confirmed as a member of the
CEA in March 2009 and was often the administration’s spokesman
on economic policy.  With the release of major economic news -- such as last
week’s Labor Department report showing that employers added
fewer jobs than forecast for May and the  unemployment rate  rose
to 9.1 percent -- it is Goolsbee who has made the rounds of
television news programs to frame the White House argument.  “We should never read too much into any one month’s
report,” he said in an interview on Bloomberg Television a
little more than an hour after the jobs report was released.  “He has been very visible from day one,” even when he was
deputy at the CEA, said Keith Hennessey, director of the
National Economic Council under President George W. Bush.  Deep Knowledge  With Goolsbee’s departure, Obama is losing a key member of
his economic team who has deep knowledge of the underpinnings of
the president’s policies, Hennessey said.  “That’s a valuable thing to lose,” he said. “That
intellectual consistency, knowing what happened the last time
the question came up a year ago or four years ago, is
important.”  Three top Obama economic advisers have already departed. At
the CEA, Goolsbee was named chairman to replace  Christina Romer ,
who returned to teaching at the  University of California  at
Berkeley last September. National Economic Council Director
Lawrence Summers and Office of Management and Budget Director
Peter Orszag also left the administration last year; Summers
returned to  Harvard University  and Orszag is now vice chairman
of global banking at Citigroup Inc.  University Leave  The University of Chicago, according to its faculty guide,
allows tenured professors a one-year leave and requires them to
petition for additional time away from the university, which has
ties to more than 80 Nobel laureates. Goolsbee, whom Obama
nominated as CEA deputy at the start of his term, has already
received dispensations from the university and is now in his
third year of leave.  A university spokesman, Jeremy Manier, declined to comment
on an individual professor’s petitions.  Some universities are more lenient than others in requiring
that their professors return to teaching duties.  Stanford
University  allowed former national security adviser and
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to return to her teaching
post after eight years in the  George W. Bush  administration.  “It varies by institution,” said Cecilia Rouse, who
served with Goolsbee on the CEA before returning to Princeton
University in February. “The longer you’re gone, the less
you’re doing the core work that you were hired to do.”  A return to academia might translate into a salary increase
for Goolsbee, who has three children. In his last year at
Chicago, he earned $465,000, according to federal financial
disclosure reports. Goolsbee’s salary as CEA chairman is
$191,300 a year.  Goolsbee earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees in
economics from  Yale University  and received his Ph.D. from the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , according to the
University of Chicago’s website. He joined the Booth School of
Business, where he has focused on the rise of Internet commerce,
government policy and taxes, in 1995.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  