-- 
Merkel Pressed by Obama to Take Lead in Europe Debt Crisis

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-06-08T00:14:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/obama-merkel-say-europe-s-debt-woes-must-not-put-global-recovery-at-risk.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is
heading home with a message from President  Barack Obama  to take
the lead in managing  Europe ’s debt crisis.  While hosting Merkel for the highest-profile visit of a
German leader to the White House in 16 years, Obama made it
clear he’s looking to policy makers in Europe’s largest economy
to prevent an “uncontrolled spiral of default” in countries
such as Greece to avoid “disastrous” harm to the U.S. economy.  “We think that America’s economic growth depends on a
sensible resolution of this issue,” Obama said at a joint news
conference with Merkel in  Washington  yesterday. Merkel, while
saying it is in  Germany ’s interest to help debt-laden countries,
stuck to her stand that such countries must commit to becoming
more competitive in return.  Their remarks underscored the differing agendas as both
countries pledge to support action to avoid the euro area’s
first default, more than a year after bailing out  Greece  in the
debt crisis that has led Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
international aid.  “If the euro as a whole is in danger, it’s in Germany’s
interest -- and in every country’s interest -- to help,” Merkel
said. “At that point, we will of course take action, but we
will act in a way that’s sustainable.”  Obama said Greece will need private investment and
“structural reforms” to make it more competitive and more
transparent in its economy.  Backstopping  “But given their level of debt, it also means that other
countries in the eurozone are going to have to provide them a
backstop and support,” Obama said. Germany will be a “key
leader” in that process, he said.  While the European debt problems have not been a
significant drag on the U.S. economy this year, a crisis
provoked by a default on sovereign debt could plunge the U.S.
back into recession, said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist
for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York .  “We believe Europe will continue to find short-term
patches for the situation there,” Feroli said. “If we’re
wrong, the U.S. expansion could be at risk.”  While prodding Germany to take a leading role, Obama
expressed sympathy for Merkel’s effort to convince skeptical
German voters of the need for further aid.  “The politics of it are tough,” he said. He pledged the
U.S. would “cooperate fully,” including through the
 International Monetary Fund , which has provided one-third of the
rescues for the euro area. Merkel pressed for IMF involvement
last year as Greece slid toward its bailout.  Debt-Holders  Obama also suggested that holders of Greek debt “have to
make some decisions” about whether to work with euro-area
governments to manage the debt, taking up a point pressed by
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble .  Bondholders must contribute a “substantial” share of a
second aid package for Greece, Schaeuble said in a letter to
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and fellow
euro finance ministers on June 6.  Maturities on Greek bonds should be extended seven years to
give the debt-wracked nation time to overhaul its economy,
Schaeuble wrote in the letter, which was provided to Bloomberg
News and reported earlier by the newspaper Die Welt.  The German stance clashes with the position of European
Commission officials and the ECB opposing anything beyond a
voluntary rollover of debt. A swap offering investors terms that
are “worse” than those of existing securities would constitute
a coercive or distressed exchange, and be considered a default,
 Fitch Ratings  said yesterday.  The euro climbed 0.8 percent to $1.4688, the strongest
since May 5.  U.S. Economy   Obama said he wasn’t concerned that the U.S. would
experience a double-dip recession, though said “we’ve still got
some enormous work to do” to create enough jobs to make up for
the more than 8 million lost during the recession.  The U.S. Labor Department reported June 3 that job growth
slowed to 54,000 in May, down from 232,000 in April and the
smallest gain in eight months. The  unemployment rate  rose to 9.1
percent, the highest level this year. It was the latest economic
indicator suggesting the nation’s recovery from the worst
recession since the 1930s has hit a soft patch.  Obama said consumers and markets are “still skittish” as
a result of the recession, and any economic data suggesting a
slowdown affects confidence and expansion.  No Panic  “Our task is to not panic, not overreact; to make sure
that we’ve got a plan, a path forward in terms of how we make
our economies competitive,” Obama said. That includes bringing
down the nation’s debt while still maintaining spending in
crucial areas such as energy research and education, he said.  Feroli attributes the weakening in the U.S. economy during
the first half of the year to high gasoline prices and
disruptions from the Japanese earthquake. He forecasts that the
growth rate will rise to 3 percent during the second half of the
year.  The two leaders spoke before a state dinner in Merkel’s
honor in the White House Rose Garden. The guest list included
government officials from both countries and business leaders
such as Robert D. Hansen, chief executive officer of Dow Corning
Corp., and Google Inc. Chairman  Eric Schmidt .  Medal of Freedom  At the dinner, Obama awarded Merkel the Presidential Medal
of Freedom, the country’s highest civilian honor. Previous
recipients of the award include investor  Warren Buffett , civil
rights figure Rosa Parks and one of Merkel’s predecessors as
chancellor of Germany,  Helmut Kohl . In his toast, the president
recalled Merkel’s upbringing in communist East Germany and her
political career after East and  West Germany  were reunited in
1990.  “Tonight we honor  Angela Merkel  not for being denied her
freedom, or even for attaining her freedom, but for what she
achieved when she gained her freedom,” Obama said, highlighting
her rise to become Germany’s first female chancellor and an
“eloquent voice” for human rights.  The menu included vegetables and herbs grown in the first
lady’s garden on the executive mansion’s South Lawn. The main
course was a petite filet with Maryland crab ravioli served on a
bed of wild ramp puree from West Virginia. The dessert is
German: apple strudel served with schlag, an unsweetened whipped
cream.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  