-- 
OECD’s Gurria Says Food Production Needs ‘Big’ Investment Boost

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-06-07T21:18:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/oecd-s-gurria-says-food-production-needs-big-investment-boost.html
OECD Secretary General Jose Angel Gurria said boosting food stockpiles in emerging and developing
nations will require increased government and private spending.  “Most of the potential to increase production is outside
the OECD countries,” Gurria, head of the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, said
today at a conference in  Montreal . “That is where there is land
available and where the gap between the current and the
potential yields is enormous. But a big increase in investment
is needed there.”  The cost of food is projected to remain elevated into 2012.
Global wheat production will lag behind demand, helping to keep
food prices high and volatile at least through next year, the
United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization said today on
its website.  Gurria offered two possible solutions to prevent future
surges in food costs. “Governments could roll back the measures
which mandate and subsidize biofuel consumption and production,
which have created conflicts between fuel and food,” he said.
“Governments could also refrain from beggar-thy-neighbor
policies such as import and export restrictions.”  Prices for staple foods including corn will more than
double in two decades unless action is taken, Oxfam
International said last week. World grain stocks will fall for a
second year by the end of June 2012, the International Grains
Council said May 26.  The increase in food prices is “not exclusively an
agricultural issue,” Gurria said. “Macroeconomic factors,
 energy policy , the financial and economic crises, the weather,
they have all contributed.”  When asked at a news conference today if the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s $600 billion Treasury-purchase program, scheduled to
expire at the end of the month, contributed to the recent rise
in commodity prices, Gurria said, “Frankly, I don’t see a very
direct link.”  The OECD, comprised mostly of developed nations in  Europe 
and  North America , has 34 member states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Homan in Montreal at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  