-- 
Hong Kong Builders Signal Prices May Fall as Luxury Sale Misses Estimates

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   B i l l y   C h a n
-- 
2011-06-10T08:13:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/hong-kong-may-fetch-record-price-for-land-in-luxury-district-at-auction.html
Hong Kong ’s developers yesterday
signaled gains in  home prices  may slow further amid rising
interest rates in China and the city, when they held back bids
that exceeded surveyors’ estimates at a land auction.  Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd., controlled by billionaire  Li Ka-shing , paid HK$11.65 billion ($1.5 billion), 10 percent less
than the HK$13 billion median of five estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey, for the site on  Borrett Road , about a 10-minute
drive from the Central business district. The price was
equivalent to HK$26,763 per square foot, said Centaline Property
Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest closely held realtor.  Property transactions fell for a fifth straight month in
May while overall home price growth is slowing after lenders
accelerated mortgage rate increases in April as liquidity dried
up. Prices may drop 10 percent to 20 percent in 2012 and a
further 10 percent in 2013 on rising rates, Andrew Lawrence, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at  Barclays Capital , said this week.  “Property developers may not want to pay excessive prices
at a level where there won’t be a lot of local user demand,”
said Tim Leung, who helps manage about $1.98 billion at IG
Investment Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Developers are a bit more
cautious and conservative in what they project in terms of
potential selling price. If investors are looking for continuing
appreciation of land prices and housing market in Hong Kong,
this is not a piece of good news.”  Shares Fall  Cheung Kong’s shares fell 1.5 percent to HK$115.20 at the 4
p.m. close in Hong Kong, after advancing 1 percent yesterday.
The seven-member Hang Seng Property Index declined 1.3 percent,
while the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index  lost 0.8 percent. The
property gauge has fallen 7.9 percent this year, while the
benchmark measure is down 2.7 percent.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority is actively studying
further tightening of mortgage lending, Financial Secretary John Tsang said in a  statement  today on the government’s website.  The city will also increase land supply and strengthen risk
management in the banking system to ensure the “healthy
development” of the  property market , he said. Sites to be sold
in auctions in the next quarter will provide more apartments
than those sold between April and June, he said.  Norman Chan ,
chief executive of the monetary authority, will meet reporters
at 4:30 p.m. today, the government said in an e-mail.  Higher Borrowing Costs  Billionaire Lee Shau-kee, founder of Henderson Land
Development Co., said yesterday home price growth and property
demand in the city will slow as borrowing costs climb in  China .
China’s government has raised interest rates four times since
September and ordered banks to set aside more cash as reserves
to curb inflation. Buyers from other Chinese cities were
responsible for a third of luxury property purchases in Hong
Kong last year, Centaline estimates.  Cheung Kong also bought a second site sold at yesterday’s
auction. The 65,400-square-foot plot in the northern Yuen Long
district fetched HK$300 million, beating the top estimate in a
range of HK$130 million to HK$220 million.  The Borrett Road site has a buildable area of 435,000
square feet. The estimated selling price for the developed site
is HK$30,763 per square foot, Centaline said.  “The Borrett Road site is a traditional luxury residential
site,” Victor Li, deputy chairman of Cheung Kong, told
reporters after the auction. “I personally like it because it’s
below the fog line -- buyers don’t like it above the fog line at
the Peak -- and yet it’s high enough to get a panoramic view of
Central, so we are quite happy to get this site.”  The Peak  The Peak, Hong Kong’s most expensive residential area,
stretches just below the 1,811-foot-high Victoria Peak, the
tallest point on  Hong Kong Island .  The prices paid for both sites were “within our
expectations,” said Li, who is Li Ka-shing’s son. Li Ka-shing
is Hong Kong’s richest man, according to Forbes magazine.  “We have a lot of developments in the neighborhood, which
means we know the customers’ expectations,” said Li about the
Yuen Long site. “It’s easily tailored to fit our customers’
expectations. Therefore we especially like this one.”  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the city’s biggest builder,
paid HK$4.49 billion for a site on Stubbs Road near Borrett Road
in the last government auction on May 12. That price was
equivalent to HK$24,829 per square foot and was in-line with the
HK$4.4 billion estimate compiled by Bloomberg News.  Government Curbs  Sino Land Co. paid HK$11.8 billion for a site in eastern
Hong Kong Island near the peak of the 1997 bubble, the highest
price at a government land auction.  The government in November increased property transaction
taxes and pledged to boost land supply amid public protests that
housing prices, which have surged about 70 percent since early
2009, are becoming unaffordable. The central bank also warned
about the risk of a “credit-fueled property bubble.”  Hong Kong’s bank borrowing rates will rise on loan demand
and capital outflows when the U.S. increases borrowing costs,
HKMA head Norman Chan said on April 28.  “You can see that lots of people are holding back,” said
David Ji, head of Greater China research at DTZ Holdings Plc in
Hong Kong. “Banks are raising  interest rates  and there are some
effects from the government policies. It will only be clearer in
a few months whether this is a wait-and-see situation or
something long-term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  