-- 
Ono Targets Three-Step Upgrade as Bonds Soar: Corporate Finance

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-06-07T12:54:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/ono-targets-three-step-upgrade-as-bonds-soar-corporate-finance.html
Grupo Corporativo Ono SA, the Spanish
broadband provider that sold  Europe ’s second-best performing
bonds this year, is targeting a three-step ratings upgrade that
may allow it to cut borrowing costs by about 20 percent.  Chief Financial Officer Carlos Sagasta said he’s aiming for
a “low single-digit” percentage increase in revenue in the
next two years, and wants to extend the maturity on about $3.6
billion of debt due by the end of 2013. He said the aim is to
help lift Madrid-based Ono’s senior bond rating of B from
 Standard & Poor’s  to at least BB and into the so-called
crossover area that straddles junk and investment grade.  Crossover status means Spain’s biggest cable-TV operator
can cut borrowing costs, while keeping relatively high leverage
ratios to fund expansion. CreditSights Inc. forecasts revenue in
the industry will grow more than 30 percent by 2014 to at least
25 billion euros ($36 billion).  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) , the U.K.’s
second-biggest pay-TV operator, saw its bond yields and loan
costs fall after it was upgraded to BB in February.  “If you see the Virgin Media-type of companies in this
sector, they adopted a strategy of moving quickly to crossover
territory,” Sagasta, 41, said in a telephone interview. “I
think the crossover is where you get the best value and
profitability for a business of our kind.”  Musketeer  Ono’s 295 million euros of bonds due 2019 sold in January
returned 7.9 percent this year, second only to Musketeer GmbH, a
unit of German cable-TV operator Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH
that’s being acquired by Liberty Global Inc. The return compares
with 6.6 percent on average for high-yield bonds sold by
European telecom, media and technology companies, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show.  The extra yield investors demand to buy Ono’s 11.125
percent 2019 bonds instead of benchmark German government debt
has dropped 155 basis points to 658 since the notes were sold in
January as the company reorganizes its balance sheet. In the
same period, the spread on Spanish debt widened 17 basis points
to 218 amid Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, Bloomberg Bond
trader prices show.  Prices of Ono’s 2019 bonds rose today, trading at 107.42
cents on the euro from 106.88 yesterday in the biggest one-day
increase since April 21. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Spain ’s economy will grow 0.8 percent this year and 1.3
percent in 2012, following two years of contraction, according
to the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
growth is forecast to be led by exports as austerity measures to
rein in the euro region’s third-biggest budget deficit and
government spending cuts weaken domestic consumption. The
region’s economy will expand 1.9 percent this year and 1.65
percent in 2012, according to the economists.  Debt Paydown  Ono’s bonds are outperforming their counterparts in other
countries because their yield premium makes them attractive to
investors and the money raised was used to pay down junior debt,
Sagasta said.  “The proceeds of the bonds were used to cancel
subordinated bonds maturing in 2014, which were a source of
concern for my banks and for other bondholders, as some people
thought it was impossible to refinance,” he said.  The cable operator is also working toward a potential
initial public offering, though there is “no specific
timeframe,” Sagasta said.  An IPO to help pay down debt would be positive for Ono’s
debt grades, “though this event isn’t factored in our
ratings,” said Ivan Palacios, a Madrid-based analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service, which has a B2 ranking on Ono’s senior
secured bonds, two levels below S&P. “The reduction in
refinancing risk is the key to see better ratings for the
company.”  Virgin Model  The Spanish cable company wants to emulate Virgin Media,
which was upgraded by S&P after increasing revenue and operating
profit. The Hook, England-based company’s 867 million pounds of
bonds due in 2018 yield 336 basis points more than benchmark
lending rates, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. That
compares with 563 basis points on similar-maturity Ono
securities in euros.  Bonds sold by companies rated BB, the lowest crossover
grade, yield 346 basis points versus benchmark rates on average,
compared with 482 for bonds rated three steps lower at B,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. High-yield,
or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and BBB- by S&P.  Obligations  Ono owes lenders 3.6 billion euros, including 2.2 billion
euros of loans maturing in 2013, according to the company’s
website. It also has 1.15 billion euros of bonds outstanding,
including 700 million euros due in 2018 and 450 million euros
maturing in 2019, Bloomberg data show.  The Spanish cable company already cut net debt to 4.85
times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization in the first quarter, down from 5.35 times a year
earlier. That’s still higher than Virgin Media’s debt to
earnings ratio of 3.9 at the end of last year, according to S&P
data.  Ono, founded in 1998 and controlled by investors including
Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec  and  Providence Equity
Partners , increased subscribers to 4.4 million in the first
quarter, up 3.1 percent from a year earlier. It’s also improving
products such as its voice network, increasing Internet speeds,
and has exclusive rights to commercialize TiVo Inc.’s personal
video recorder service this year.  Even so, first-quarter profit dropped 45 percent to 9
million euros in the first three months of the year, while
revenue fell 2.2 percent to 364 million euros.  ‘Tough Market’  “Ono is in a very tough market, but it has taken some
steps to get its house in order with restructuring and its
recent numbers have been okay,” said  Jonathan Moore , a high-
yield analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. in  London . “An
upgrade is a possibility if it continues to hit its business
plan despite the tough macro environment and particularly if it
makes further progress on extending its debt profile.”  Ono still has a tough challenge to reach crossover status,
according to Guillaume Trentin, a Paris-based analyst at S&P.
Spain’s unemployment rate, the highest in Europe, may crimp
customer growth, while tighter covenants on its loans may
restrict the cash available for investment, he said.  “The key for them is to grow their triple-play product
penetration” of telephony, TV, and broadband Internet, Trentin
said. “The crossover area is still far from the current rating
of the company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  