-- 
OPEC May Raise Output to Limit Oil Price Rise

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-06-07T06:35:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/opec-may-raise-output-to-limit-oil-price-rise.html
OPEC may increase its crude output
quotas as members including  Saudi Arabia , the group’s biggest
producer, are concerned about high prices slowing economic
growth and oil demand, according to  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries may raise
production limits at its meeting tomorrow in Vienna by as much
as 1.5 million barrels a day from actual production,  Michael
Wittner , New York-based head of oil-market research at the bank,
said today in a note.  “Saudi Arabia and other key members of OPEC, with the
usual exceptions of price hawks Iran and Venezuela, appear to be
leaning toward a quota increase because they are concerned about
the negative impact of high prices on GDP growth and,
ultimately, on oil demand growth,” Wittner wrote in the report.  The  International Energy Agency  said on May 19 it saw “an
urgent need” for more oil to help bring down high prices
threatening economies. Crude oil slid today on speculation OPEC
will increase output quotas and signs fuel demand is faltering
along with slowing economic growth.  “This meeting result is not a slam dunk, though, with a 65
percent probability and a medium level of conviction,” Wittner
said. “We would not recommend taking any tactical trading
decisions based on the expected outcome of the OPEC meeting.”  Analyst Survey  OPEC won’t announce a supply increase and will keep its
formal production quota unchanged for an eighth consecutive
meeting at the June 8 gathering, according to a Bloomberg survey
of analysts conducted May 24-31. Venezuelan Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  also said the group is unlikely to raise production.  The OPEC members bound by the output quotas, not including
 Iraq , produced 26.2 million barrels a day in May, or about 1.4
million barrels more than they pledged, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of analysts, producers and oil companies. Total
supply including Iraq was 28.9 million barrels a day.  The group will have to increase its production target by as
much as 2.5 million barrels or risk prices rising higher,
according to a report by  Johannes Benigni , chairman of
consultant JBC Energy GmbH in Vienna, received by e-mail
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  