-- 
OPEC Seen Considering Raising Crude Output Up to 1.5 Million Barrels a Day

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-06-07T09:04:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/opec-seen-considering-raising-crude-output-up-to-1-5-million-barrels-a-day.html
OPEC members gathered to review their
target for oil output amid rising speculation that  Saudi Arabia ,
the group’s biggest producer, is seeking an agreement to boost
production by as much as 1.5 million barrels a day.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
pumps about 40 percent of the world’s crude, is meeting in
Vienna as fighting in Libya shuts off the bulk of supplies from
Africa’s third-largest producer and oil hovers at almost $100 a
barrel. Crude prices at current levels could derail a global
economic recovery, the International Energy Agency’s Chief
Economist Fatih Birol told reporters today in Oslo.  “Saudi Arabia and other key members of OPEC, with the
usual exceptions of price hawks Iran and Venezuela, appear to be
leaning toward a quota increase because they are concerned about
the negative impact of high prices on GDP growth and,
ultimately, on oil-demand growth,”  Michael Wittner , the New
York-based head of oil-market research at Societe Generale SA,
said today in a note.  OPEC is about 65 percent likely to raise its production
target tomorrow, with an increase of as much as 1.5 million
barrels a day, Wittner said. The 12-member group has kept its
ceiling at 24.845 million barrels a day since December 2008.  Crude for July delivery slid as much as 68 cents to $98.33
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $99.17 at 9:58 a.m. in  London . The
contract yesterday fell $1.21, or 1.2 percent, to $99.01. Prices
are up 38 percent the past year.  Managing Oil Prices  Saudi Arabia is probably “keen” to keep oil prices below
$100 a barrel, said  Ian Henderson , who manages $10 billion at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. “They don’t want to have the price running
away,” Henderson told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television.  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi declined to answer
reporters’ questions today in Vienna about the group’s
discussions and likely decision.  The global crude market would “welcome” increased oil
production from OPEC, Vitol Group Chief Executive Officer Ian Taylor said after attending the Asia Oil and Gas Conference in
 Kuala Lumpur .  “We’ve lost  Libya , that’s sweet oil that theoretically
would be good to replace,” Taylor told reporters. “The markets
are in small backwardation, which would suggest there’s just
about enough oil. Stock levels aren’t bad, I could not say the
market is incredibly tight.” Taylor was referring to the market
for Brent crude, in which cargoes for immediate delivery are
more expensive than those for later dates.  Missed Libyan Supply  A rebellion against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has cut
supplies from the North African country by almost 90 percent,
according to Bloomberg estimates. Libya produces the light, low-
sulfur crude favored by refiners.  OPEC will need to raise its production target by as
much as 2.5 million barrels a day or risk that prices will move
higher, according to a report from Johannes Benigni, chairman of
consultant JBC Energy GmbH in Vienna, received by e-mail
yesterday.  “If OPEC doesn’t increase supply sufficiently, it would be
a tacit communication to the market that $100-plus oil is
acceptable,” Benigni said.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,  Iran ,  Iraq ,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the group’s quota
system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya at   adaya1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 