-- 
NYC Temperature May Break 78-Year-Old Records as Heat Wave Grips U.S. East

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-06-07T19:31:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/hot-temperatures-to-bake-eastern-u-s-this-week-prompting-health-warnings.html
Temperatures in  New York  may break
78-year-old records in the next two days as heat builds along
the U.S. East Coast, according to the National Weather Service.  The temperature in Central Park is forecast to reach 96
degrees Fahrenheit (35.5 Celsius) tomorrow, topping the record
of 95 set on that date in 1933, said Lauren Nash, a weather
service meteorologist in  Upton, New York . The forecast calls for
a high of 98 on June 9, a degree above another 1933 record for
the date.  The East Coast heat, which will bake the region for the
rest of the week, is expected to drive up energy demand from
Washington to Boston, according to  MDA EarthSat Weather  in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  Natural gas for July delivery rose 0.4 cent to $4.831 per
million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , settling at the highest price since July 30 for the
second straight day. Power plants use about 30 percent of the
nation’s gas supplies.  A total of 276 high temperature records were set yesterday
across the central U.S. from Wisconsin to Texas, according to
 Allen Motew , head meteorologist with QT Information Systems in
 Chicago .  An excessive heat watch, meaning conditions are expected to
become dangerous, has been issued for eastern Pennsylvania,
including Philadelphia, and western  New Jersey  starting
tomorrow, the  National Weather Service  in Mount Holly, New
Jersey, reported.  Dangerous Heat  “The combination of hot temperatures and high humidity
will combine to create a dangerous situation in which heat
illnesses are possible,” according to an agency bulletin.
“Stay in an air-conditioned room, stay out of the sun and check
up on relatives and neighbors.”  Air quality alerts also stretch from northern Virginia to
New Jersey, including  Washington  and Baltimore, according to the
weather service. People with asthma and heart conditions and
children and the elderly are most at risk, the agency said.  Today’s high is expected to reach 89 in Manhattan and 90 in
Newark. Tomorrow, the high in Newark is expected to be 97, tying
a 1999 record for the date, and 99 the next day, which would
also tie a mark set in 2008, Nash said.  “Peak heat days are today and tomorrow in the Midwest and
tomorrow to Thursday for the East Coast, but Friday is inching
up hotter for the East Coast, too,” Commodity Weather Group LLC
President  Matt Rogers  said in a note to clients today.  Cooler weather is expected to reach the six New England
states during the June 12 to June 16 period, according to
Rogers. The South from  Texas  to South Carolina is expected to
remain hotter than normal through June 21, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  