-- 
Housing Market Has Persistent Case of the Blahs: Edward Glaeser

-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 
2011-06-07T04:01:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/housing-market-has-persistent-case-of-the-blahs-edward-glaeser.html
The seasonally adjusted S&P/Case-
Shiller index of housing prices in 20 cities has now fallen for
nine consecutive months, but before we get all hot and bothered
about another collapse, we should recognize the relatively
modest nature of the current double dip.  The seasonally adjusted decline since last June has been
only about 4 percent, whereas the decline from April 2006 to May
2009 was 32 percent. The current drop seems less like a second
big bust, and more like just another phase of a long period of
the housing blahs.  The Case-Shiller 20-city series began in January 2000. From
then until April 2006, the peak of the bubble, prices rose 105
percent, before beginning their spectacular 32 percent decline
in nominal terms, or 36 percent in real terms.  Even the Great Depression didn’t see such drops in housing
prices. From 1925 to 1933, nominal prices fell 30 percent,
according to the  data  compiled by  Robert Shiller , who created
the index with  Karl Case , a fellow economist. Correcting for the
depression’s deflation, that price fall ended by 1932 and was
only 13 percent.  The Case-Shiller series doesn’t pretend to be nationally
representative -- it includes just 20 big, and particularly
volatile, metropolitan areas. Nationwide, the price shifts
appear to have been more modest. The  Federal Housing Finance
Agency , or  FHFA , produces a price series with greater geographic
range. Yet its underlying sales data include only homes “whose
mortgages have been purchased or securitized by  Fannie Mae  or
 Freddie Mac ,” so it misses housing with non-conforming
mortgages, which can be at both the top and the bottom of the
market.  Less-Volatile Index  That index is typically less volatile, and the boom, which
lasted until 2007,  according to the FHFA , registered at “only”
65 percent nominal price growth, or 38 percent in real terms.
Moreover, the FHFA bust has pretty much continued unabated, and
we are now down 21 percent nominally, or 26 percent in real
terms.  Still, Case-Shiller gave us hope for a rebound in 2009, and
until July 2010 their  price index  rose by 4.7 percent, or 2.7
percent in real terms. Those hopes have now vanished as prices
have fallen 4.3 percent since the post-crash peak, or about 7
percent in real terms.  The U.S. has experienced more than a few housing bubbles
and busts, and our post-bust history is remarkably uniform.
There are generally modest gyrations, though there has never
been either a quick turnaround or a second huge drop. The
typical pattern is that nominal prices stay flat for years.  Depression-Era Prices  For example, research by the scholars  Tom Nicholas and Anna
Scherbina  on prices in  New York City  during the Great Depression
shows stability after 1931. There was a brief boomlet during
1933, which soon vanished, and prices in 1939 were pretty much
the same as in 1931.  The housing boom of the late 1980s peaked in April 1990.
There was a brief comeback in 1991; that mini-surge soon
vanished and prices stayed even through 1996. Nominal prices in
May 1996 and May 1991 were almost exactly the same.  One explanation for these long blah periods is that housing
markets are far stickier than stock markets. There are plenty of
owners who would like to move but they also would rather stick
with their house rather than realize a big loss on their largest
investment. Down payments have been wiped out, so people
couldn’t buy a new home if they did sell. As homeowners sit and
wait until they get a decent offer, prices appear to stay flat.  Institutional Owners  One common explanation for the speedy price drop in areas
such as Phoenix and  Las Vegas  is that a wave of foreclosures
packed the market with institutional owners willing to sell at
any price. Once these sales are done, the blahs begin.  Last month’s Case-Shiller data really show more of the same
stasis, rather than some big downturn. The overall seasonally
adjusted price drop from February to March was .23 percent,
which is pretty darn close to zero. Seven out of the 20
metropolitan areas experienced seasonally adjusted price
increases.  Economic logic also suggests stability ahead. Prices in the
growing parts of the U.S., where land is cheap and permitting is
easy, have typically been weighed down by the costs of new
construction. During the boom period, prices in some of those
cities, including Phoenix and Las Vegas, lost touch with that
reality but they are now back down to their historical norms. In
other places, such as Dallas and Houston, prices never boomed
much and they remain stable, close to the long-run cost of
supplying housing.  Doldrums Planning  Rather than expecting huge future price swings -- one way
or the other -- in the near future, it makes more sense to plan
for the doldrums, and there’s good and bad in that. On the
negative side, people do seem to spend more when their houses
are  worth more , so low housing prices keep consumption down and
that probably hurts the macro-economy.  On the plus side, the housing bust made a basic necessity
far more affordable. We’re all short housing at some point in
our lives and cheaper homes are a blessing for consumers, just
like cheaper cars and computers.  The federal government certainly shouldn’t be in the
business of artificially boosting housing prices. Why should
taxpayers subsidize that particular asset class or try to raise
the cost of a core expense?  At the same time, future policy should do more to reflect
the fact that booms have always ended in busts. Bank examiners
should appraise real estate-linked assets with tools that
anticipate the tendency of prices to revert to their historical
means. A wiser appraisal policy would counteract the tendency to
lend big during booms, which might eliminate some of the
suffering that follows.  (Edward Glaeser is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Edward L. Glaeser at  Eglaeser@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at  mberley@ bloomberg.net 