-- 
Hovnanian Reports Wider Second-Quarter Loss as Sales, Home Orders Decline

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-06-08T06:51:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/hovnanian-reports-wider-second-quarter-loss-as-sales-home-orders-decline.html
Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , the
largest homebuilder in  New Jersey , said its second-quarter loss
more than doubled as a lack of demand for new houses caused
revenue to tumble 20 percent.  The net loss for the three months ended April 30 widened to
$72.7 million, or 69 cents a share, from $28.6 million, or 36
cents, a year earlier, the Red Bank-based company said in a
 statement  yesterday. The average estimate of nine analysts in a
Bloomberg survey was for a loss of 55 cents a share.  Hovnanian, which specializes in building communities of
single-family homes, is buying land at distressed prices in an
effort to boost margins as the housing market languishes. U.S.
homebuilders are struggling with weak demand as unemployment
hovers around 9 percent and foreclosures drag down prices of
previously owned houses.  “The further the recovery is pushed out, the more
difficult it is for companies like Hovnanian that are in the
weakest financial shape,” said  Vicki Bryan , an analyst for debt
research firm Gimme Credit LLC in  New York .  U.S. new-home sales are near record lows. Newly built
properties sold at an annual pace of 323,000 in April, according
to the Commerce Department. They reached a rate of 278,000 in
February, matching the pace in August as the lowest in data
going back to 1963.  Home Orders, Sales  Hovnanian’s second-quarter revenue declined to $255.1
million from $318.6 million a year earlier. Net orders dropped
17 percent to 1,166 homes.  The loss was Hovnanian’s 18th in the past 19 quarters. The
only profit, in the three months ended January 2010, was the
result of a federal tax break.  The company expects narrower losses in the next two
quarters, Chief Executive Officer  Ara Hovnanian  said in
yesterday’s statement.  “We remain confident that we have the liquidity to weather
the remainder of this downturn, and will continue to position
ourselves in preparation for the inevitable housing recovery,”
he said.  The report was released after the close of regular U.S.
trading. Hovnanian has lost 43 percent this year for the biggest
decline in Bloomberg’s U.S. homebuilder index, which is down 13
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 