-- 
Palm Oil Drops to Two-Week Low as Soybean Plantings Gather Pace

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-06-07T05:21:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/palm-oil-drops-to-two-week-low-as-soybean-plantings-gather-pace.html
Palm oil  dropped to the lowest level
in more than two weeks, tracking declines in soybeans as farmers
in the U.S. accelerated oilseed planting after the weather
improved.  August-delivery palm oil lost as much as 1.3 percent to
3,343 ringgit ($1,110) a metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange, the lowest since May 19. Futures have climbed 37
percent in the past year.  Warmer, drier weather in most of the U.S. last week allowed
farmers to accelerate delayed corn and soybean planting and gave
a boost to crops stunted by cold, wet conditions earlier in May,
the government said yesterday. Soybeans fell 2.2 percent
yesterday, the most in more than four weeks.  Palm oil declined on “the recovery of weather conditions
in the U.S. and the week-on-week increase in soybean planting,”
Vimala Reddy, an analyst at Karvy Comtrade Ltd., said from the
Indian city of Hyderabad. “Any increase in the production of
soybean would increase the crushing and increase  soybean oil 
supplies, which is a substitute for palm oil, so that would have
an adverse impact on palm oil prices.”  About 68 percent of the soybean crop was planted as of June
5, up from 51 percent a week earlier, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said yesterday in a  report . Still, this was slower
compared with 83 percent planted a year ago and 82 percent five-
year average. Approximately 44 percent of the plants had
emerged, compared with 27 percent a week earlier and the five-
year average of 61 percent. Soybeans can be planted later than
other crops with less impact on yield.  Rain Forecast  Some muddy fields dried out enough to support planting
machinery, said  Drew Lerner , the president of World Weather Inc.
Over the next two weeks, crops will get frequent rains that will
aid germination, Lerner said.  “Even though the pace is a bit slow compared with the
five-year average, I think there’s still a chance for it to
improve later,” Ryan Long, vice president of futures & options
at OSK Investment Bank Bhd., said by phone from Kuala Lumpur.
“The concern is not too big at the moment.”  Palm oil prices are also under pressure on expectations of
higher output from Indonesia and Malaysia, the two biggest
growers, in the second half of the year, Reddy said.  Palm oil stockpiles in  Malaysia  climbed to the highest
level in six months in April after production increased on
favorable weather, the Malaysian Palm Oil Board said May 10. The
board is due to report output, inventory and export data for May
on June 10.  July-delivery soybeans gained as much as 0.5 percent to
$13.90 a bushel in  Chicago , while soybean oil for the same month
rose as much as 0.5 percent to 58.31 cents per pound.  January-delivery palm oil on the  Dalian Commodity Exchange 
shed as much as 1.6 percent to 9,316 yuan ($1,438) a ton and was
at 9,320 yuan at 11:30 a.m. Soybean oil for delivery in the same
month lost as much as 1.4 percent to 10,382 yuan a ton.  CME Group Inc.’s most-active September palm-oil contract,
pegged to the Malaysian benchmark, fell 0.7 percent to $1,109
per ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  