-- 
Pawlenty’s Tax-Cut Plan Is Questioned Amid Doubts Over Revenue Projections

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-06-08T18:49:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/pawlenty-to-criticize-obama-s-economic-record-in-chicago-speech.html
Republican presidential candidate  Tim Pawlenty , seeking notice in a crowded field, offered a tax-
reduction and simplification plan that skeptics said projects
overly rosy U.S. economic growth.  The former Minnesota governor also called for less
regulation and more business-growth incentives, while attacking
President  Barack Obama  as “a champion practitioner of class
warfare.”  Speaking yesterday at the  University of Chicago , where
Obama once taught law, Pawlenty said Obama has “spent three
years dividing our nation and fanning the flames of class envy
and resentment all across the country to deflect attention from
his own failures and the economic hardship they have visited on
America.”  In his first major policy speech since declaring his
candidacy on May 23, Pawlenty proposed a reduction in the top
corporate tax rate to 15 percent from 35 percent, as well as
just two tax rates for individuals.  The speech, at one of the world’s most prominent schools of
free-market thought, followed last week’s Labor Department
report showing that payrolls grew by a less-than-projected
54,000 in May -- the smallest gain in eight months. The
 unemployment rate  rose to 9.1 percent, the highest this year.  The jobs report was the latest indicator suggesting the
nation’s recovery from the worst recession since the 1930s has
hit a soft patch with the presidential election 17 months away.  Gasoline Prices  Spotlighting rising gasoline prices and falling home
prices, Pawlenty, 50, said Obama, 49, has failed to nurse the
nation’s economy into a healthier condition.  “Our national debt has skyrocketed,” he said. “Our
 budget deficit  has grown worse. And the jobs and manufacturing
reports are grim. Now, if that was recovery, then our president
needs to enter economic rehab.”  In an interview with Bloomberg Television today in Chicago,
Pawlenty also blamed Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  for
the economy’s weakness.  “I didn’t support Chairman Bernanke’s appointment last
time for these very reasons,” Pawlenty said. “He has a very,
what I would say, loose approach to the dollar and a strong-
dollar policy. We need to get back to a strong dollar as one of
our economic goals. It reflects a strong country and a strong
economy.”  ‘Flooded the Market’  Pawlenty said the Fed has “flooded the market with
money,” potentially leading to a “significant round of
inflation” later.  Democratic National Committee Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a U.S. House member from  Florida , said in a statement
yesterday that Pawlenty’s plan “would take the Republican
policies of the last decade, which exploded our deficit and debt
and nearly sank our economy into a second Great Depression, and
inject them with steroids.”  Pawlenty’s remarks on federal spending focused little on
the largest cost drivers, which include Medicaid, Medicare,
Social Security and defense.  When asked about those items by an audience member,
Pawlenty said he would offer his own Medicare plan in the “next
couple of months or less.”  Ryan Plan  He has previously said, when pressed on the matter, that if
he were president he would sign the House Republican proposal by
Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  that would privatize the
traditional Medicare program for older Americans.  Pawlenty called for means testing for Social Security’s
annual cost-of-living adjustment, as well as a gradual increase
in the program’s retirement age. He said he would like to see
block grants to states for Medicaid, the health-care program for
the poor, and a slowing in the rate of spending on defense-
related items.  His proposal to limit federal spending to 18 percent of
gross domestic product ignores rising health-care costs and an
aging U.S. population, said Leonard Burman, a professor of
public affairs at  Syracuse University  in Syracuse,  New York .  “The level of disconnect from reality is just
disturbing,” Burman said.  Pawlenty said much of the revenue that would cover the tax
cuts he is proposing would come from the 5 percent annual
economic growth his tax cuts would help spur.  ‘Deep Doo-Doo’  “If that 5 percent becomes 4, 3, 2 or 1 percent, we’re in
deep doo-doo,” Pawlenty said during a question-and-answer
session after the speech. “So this isn’t about whether some
people are going to get wealthier or not. It’s about what are
those things that we need to do to make it more likely, not less
likely, that businesses are going to start, grow, add employees,
buy capital equipment, build buildings, conduct research and do
all the things it takes to keep a private economy going.”  Pawlenty pointed to similar levels of growth during periods
in the 1980s and 1990s. He didn’t mention that Congress also
raised taxes several times during those decades. The U.S. GDP
has grown by 5 percent in only 13 of the 65 years since the end
of World War II, according to the Commerce Department, and it
hasn’t hit that target since 1984.  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the ranking Republican on the
tax-writing Finance Committee, said Pawlenty’s proposal was
“forward looking.”  “I was very interested in that,” Hatch told reporters
today. “If that would bring companies back to America, my gosh,
we all ought to be praising Governor Pawlenty.”  Trillions of Dollars  The  Center for American Progress , a Washington policy group
often aligned with Democrats, estimated that Pawlenty’s tax-rate
cuts would reduce revenue collections to 13.5 percent of gross
domestic product, below the post-World War II average of about
18 percent. To bring that number high enough to cover spending,
he would have to eliminate trillions of dollars worth of tax
breaks, the group said.  “It’s radical, to say the least,” said  Michael Ettlinger ,
the center’s vice president for economic policy.  Ettlinger called Pawlenty’s 5 percent growth target
“patently ridiculous,” and said it didn’t warrant serious
discussion. “The idea that we’re going to get substantially
levels of higher economic growth, for a longer-term period, it’s
just not realistic,” he said.  Pawlenty suggested that his tax cuts could be offset
through spending cuts and the elimination of certain tax breaks
for businesses.  “The  tax code  is littered with special-interest handouts,
carve-outs, subsidies and loopholes,” he said. “They should be
eliminated. Such reform would not only help offset short-term
revenue loss from the rate cuts, but it would also reduce
cronyism -- favoritism -- and government manipulating markets
for political purposes.”  Mortgage Interest  Pawlenty wouldn’t target any of the popular personal tax
breaks, such as mortgage interest deductions.  “In the individual tax code, we’re not proposing to change
the tax deductions, exemptions or credits,” he told reporters
after the speech.  Pawlenty said his plan would reduce the lowest tax rate by
one-third by setting the bottom bracket at 10 percent. The tax
cuts enacted in 2001 already established a 10 percent bracket,
and it applies this year to the first $8,500 of taxable income
of individuals and the first $17,000 of taxable income for
married couples. Pawlenty’s proposal would widen that 10 percent
bracket by making it apply to $50,000 of income for individuals
and $100,000 for married couples.  25 Percent  Above that level, Pawlenty would set a single 25 percent
bracket, shrinking the current six-bracket structure to two. The
top rate of 35 percent now applies to taxable income exceeding
$379,150 for both individuals and married couples. His 25
percent top individual rate matches the targets set by  House
Republicans .  Pawlenty proposed eliminating the taxes on estates,  capital
gains , and dividend and interest income, all of which tend to go
to taxpayers with higher incomes. More than 90 percent of the
tax savings from the lower rates on capital gains and dividends
go to taxpayers in the top 20 percent of the  income
distribution , according to the  Tax Policy Center , a nonpartisan
Washington research organization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in  Chicago , at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  