-- 
Peru Bonds Gain as Credit Suisse Says Humala Sell-Off a Buying Opportunity

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-06-07T22:18:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/peru-trading-like-junk-as-debt-riskier-than-turkey-s-after-humala-victory.html
Peruvian dollar bonds gained as
Credit Suisse AG and RBS Securities Inc. recommended the notes
after the debt tumbled yesterday following the election of ex-
military rebel Ollanta Humala.  The extra yield investors demand to own Peruvian bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries declined 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 197 at 5:51 p.m. in  New York , according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The yield gap soared 23 basis points
yesterday, the biggest one-day jump since May 2010, on concern
that Humala will fulfill pledges he made early in the
presidential campaign to boost government control of natural
resources and increase mining royalties.  Humala, 48, who defeated congresswoman Keiko Fujimori, 36,
in the June 5 run-off vote, sought late in the campaign to
distance himself from those comments, saying he would emulate
the pro-market policies of former Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva . Peru’s economy expanded more than 7
percent in each of the past 13 months and it has been the
fastest growing in Latin America over the past decade.  “You have to put things into the context of where  Peru 
fundamentals are,” Pablo Cisilino, who helps manage $24.5
billion in emerging market debt at Stone Harbor Investment
Partners in New York, said in an interview. “Even if Humala
started doing some less market friendly policies, there’s not
going to be an immediate deterioration of the credit.”  Peruvian stocks also rebounded today, with the benchmark
index climbing 7 percent after a record 12 percent tumble
yesterday that prompted exchange officials to end trading early.
The sol strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.7865 per  U.S. dollar ,
after falling 0.9 percent yesterday, the most in almost two
years.  Borrowing Costs  The yield on Peru’s benchmark dollar bonds due in March
2037 fell 12 basis points to 5.806 percent today, after jumping
19 basis points yesterday, the most since November 2008.  ’’It’s clear that there’s a willingness to buy here on
weakness,’’ said  Siobhan Morden , an emerging markets debt
strategist with RBS Securities in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . ’’If
you believe that Peru will not lose its investment-grade rating,
eventually it will retrace back for a full recovery.’’  The South American country’s credit fundamentals are “so
unbelievably strong” that there’s room for further upgrades to
the dollar debt, which Moody’s Investors Service rates Baa3, the
lowest investment grade, Patrick Esteruelas, a senior analyst at
the ratings company said yesterday.  “A lot has to go wrong to jeopardize Peru’s investment-
grade rating,” he said by phone from New York.  Peru is rated BBB- by Standard and Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings, also the lowest investment grades.  Debt Insurance  The cost to protect Peru’s debt from non-payment with
credit-default swaps for five years fell 13 basis points today
to 154 in New York, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market. Yesterday, the swaps jumped 20
basis points.  Before Humala began advancing in pre-election polls, the
cost for debt insurance was in line with other investment-grade
countries in the region including Brazil, Panama and  Colombia .  The price of the swaps will decline to 110, close to the
level before the presidential election in mid-March, said  Diego Donadio , a Latin American strategist at BNP Paribas in  Sao
Paulo .  “We believe that Humala will not be that disruptive for
markets,” he said by phone. “The economic advisers, the names
that are being rumored that’ll assume the ministry of finance,
the central bank are market friendly and moderate names.”  Central Bank  Humala may decide to keep Julio Velarde as head of the
country’s central bank, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch said in a
report today. Another candidate to replace Velarde, former bank
President Oscar Dancourt, poses more risk due to his
“interventionist” stance favoring  capital controls  and taxing
inflows, Bank of America said.  Changes at the central bank may take place in September,
the bank said. A divided Congress and Peru’s fiscal
sustainability law will make it difficult for Humala, a one-time
ally of  Venezuela ’s  Hugo Chavez , to institute any “radical”
changes at the outset of his government, according to Bank of
America.  Humala said on June 5 he would seek broad backing for his
policies and form a government comprised of the most-qualified
people independent of their political affiliation. To reinforce
his ties with  Latin America ’s biggest economy, Humala plans to
travel to Brasilia and meet with Lula’s successor,  Dilma Rousseff , before taking office July 28, Marco Aurelio Garcia, a
foreign policy adviser to the Brazilian leader, told reporters
yesterday.  Silver, Copper and Zinc  “The new president is likely to end up opting for policy
prudence and he is taking over an economy that is in very good
shape,” Credit Suisse analysts said in a report to clients.  Peru is the world’s biggest silver producer, and third in
copper and zinc. Mining investment helped bring in $7.3 billion
in foreign direct investment last year.  As an army lieutenant colonel in 2000, Humala led 50
soldiers who seized and occupied for a week one of Southern
Cooper Corp.’s mines to protest corruption in Fujimori’s
government. His brother, Antauro Humala, is in jail for killing
four policemen during the takeover of a highland town in 2005.  “There’s a clear willingness to provide Peru the benefit
of the doubt,” Morden said in a telephone interview. “It’s a
view itself on the credit, not on the person.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  