-- 
‘Strong’ Demand Seen by FedEx, Cathay to Ease Fuel Burden: Freight Markets

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k ,   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-06-07T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/pickup-seen-by-fedex-cathay-may-offset-fuel-freight-markets.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX) , the biggest air-cargo
carrier, and  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  forecast a pickup in
freight demand in the second half of the year that may help
airlines offset surging fuel prices.  “The momentum we see in the cargo sector is strong,”
David Bronczek, chief executive officer of FedEx’s FedEx Express
unit, said June 6 at the  International Air Transport
Association ’s annual general meeting in Singapore. “The
momentum will continue as long as the oil issue doesn’t throw a
wrench in the works.”  Cathay, the largest international cargo carrier, also said
customers were expecting a second-half rebound, signaling that
consumer spending in the U.S. and Europe may withstand rising
oil prices and slowing growth in payrolls. The rising demand
prompted IATA this week to more than double its forecast for
full-year cargo yields, a measure of rates, to 4 percent.  “We’ll get a strong second half,” said Cathay CEO John Slosar. “When we talk to forwarders and shippers they’re all
saying things are bit quiet now, but they’re expecting pretty
big demand.”  Full-year global air-cargo traffic may rise  5.5 percent 
this year, picking up from a 4.3 percent pace in the first four
months, according to IATA, whose 238 members account for 93
percent of worldwide air traffic. Traffic surged 21 percent last
year as the end of the global recession triggered a surge in
demand for shipments of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads, luxury handbags and
fresh foods.  Boeing Freighters  Hong Kong-based Cathay will bolster its cargo capacity in
the second half with the arrival of six  Boeing Co. (BA)  747-8
freighters. It’s due to receive two a month from August to
October, Slosar said. The planes will help the airline boost
full-year cargo capacity about 10 percent.  The increase follows a 2.3 percent decline in the carrier’s
cargo traffic in April, the first drop since October, 2009. The
fall was partly caused by slowing demand for shipments to Europe
from  China , according to a May 13 statement. Hong Kong Air Cargo
Terminals Ltd., the biggest freight-handler in Cathay’s home
airport, the busiest worldwide for cargo, also reported a 12
percent drop in volumes for last month.  “Hactl’s figures were softer this year than they were last
year, but last year was incredibly strong,” Slosar said. “This
year we think it’s looking just like a regular year, where the
first half is weaker and the second half will be stronger.”  Back-to-School  The last six months of the year are traditionally the
busiest for cargo carriers, partly because of back-to-school and
holidays shopping in the U.S. and  Europe . Cathay is yet to
release its May traffic data.  Still, the demand increase may not be enough for airlines
to fully offset fuel prices that have jumped 56 percent in the
past year in Singapore trading. IATA cut its industrywide profit
forecast, including passenger operations, by 54 percent to $4
billion because of fuel costs and disruptions caused by an
earthquake in  Japan  and political unrest in the  Middle East  and
North Africa.  “There are lots of airlines with weak financial positions
today who will clearly struggle,” said  Willie Walsh , chief
executive officer of British Airways’ parent International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA. “It’s going to be a challenging
environment.”  IATA raised its fuel-year forecast for the average price of
 Brent crude  to $110 a barrel from $96. Every $1 increase boosts
the industry’s annual fuel costs by $1.6 billion, according to
the airline group.  Oil Prices  A jump in oil prices could also damp  consumer spending  in
the U.S., where payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight
months in May and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly climbed to
9.1 percent from 9 percent in April, according to the Labor
Department.  “That’s a big concern,” said  Memphis , Tennessee-based
FedEx’s Bronczek. “It’s an incremental cost -- a tax almost --
on people’s groceries, the gas into their cars, and of course
into our planes.”  Asia-Pacific airlines will be the best positioned to
withstand higher fuel costs because of their larger air-cargo
businesses and because of rising passenger traffic in China and
 India , the world’s most populous nations, according to IATA.  Cathay, which is spending HK$5.5 billion ($708 million) to
build its own cargo terminal at the Hong Kong airport, earned 29
percent of sales from cargo last year, while the figure for
Korean Air Lines Co. was 33 percent. By comparison, cargo at
both Delta Air lines Inc. and United Continental Holdings Inc.
accounted for less than 5 percent of sales, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Cargo demand will help Asia-Pacific airlines, which carry
40 percent of air-freight, make a $2.1 billion profit this year,
the highest tally for any region, according to IATA. The group
predicted a $1.2 billion profit for North American carriers and
$500 million for European airlines.  “It does still look like quite a positive outlook for air-
cargo, especially in the Asia-Pacific region,” said Brian Pearce, IATA’s chief economist.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Singapore at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  