-- 
Pirates Take UCLA Pitcher Gerrit Cole With No. 1 Pick in Draft

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/pirates-take-ucla-pitcher-gerrit-cole-with-no-1-pick-in-draft.html
Pitcher Gerrit Cole, previously a
first-round pick of the  New York Yankees  in 2008, was taken by
the Pittsburgh Pirates with the No. 1 overall selection this
year in Major League Baseball’s first-year player draft.  Cole, 20, opted not to sign with the Yankees after being
drafted three years ago, instead going to the University of
 California , Los Angeles. The right-hander had a 21-20 record
with a 3.38 earned run average in 50 games for UCLA, with 376
strikeouts in 322 1/3 innings.  “I always wanted to play in the major leagues and I think
every kid grows up dreaming about that,” Cole said in a
telephone interview with MLB Network last night. “The first
time around, it really wasn’t my time. Now, we have to take care
of some business, but hopefully things will work out.”  The 6-foot-4 Cole was the fourth pitcher drafted No. 1 in
the past six years, following  Stephen Strasburg  by  Washington  in
2009, David Price by Tampa Bay in 2007 and Luke Hochevar by
Kansas City in 2006. The Pirates last had the top overall pick
in 2002, when they drafted pitcher Bryan Bullington, who
appeared in 26 major league games, including six for Pittsburgh.  Greg Smith, the Pirates’ director of scouting, said Cole
has the “size, strength, overall package of stuff and mentality
to develop into a top-of-the-rotation” starter.  Pitchers were taken with the top four picks last night,
including Cole’s UCLA teammate Trevor Bauer, who went third to
the  Arizona Diamondbacks . Of the 33 players taken in the first
round, 19 were pitchers.  Mets’ First Pick  Bubba Starling, a high school outfielder from  Kansas , was
the first non-pitcher drafted, taken fifth overall by the  Kansas
City Royals . Starling may attend the University of Nebraska to
play baseball as well as quarterback for the football team. The
 New York Mets  used the 13th pick on Brandon Nimmo, a high school
outfielder from Cheyenne, Wyoming.  The 50-round draft began last night with the first round
and compensatory picks -- 60 selections in all. The remaining 49
rounds will be conducted today and tomorrow.  The Yankees’ first pick -- 51st overall -- was high school
infielder Dante Bichette Jr., whose father hit 274 home runs in
14 major league seasons with five teams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  