-- 
Poland Sells $1 Billion of Additional 10-Year Debt as Borrowing Costs Fall

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 
2011-06-07T19:39:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/poland-sells-1-billion-of-additional-10-year-debt-as-borrowing-costs-fall.html
Poland  reduced its borrowing costs in
a $1 billion reopening of 10-year bonds first issued in April as
the government’s pledge to lower the budget deficit helped lure
investors.  The 5.125 percent notes maturing in April 2021 priced to
yield 170 basis points, or 1.7 percentage points, above similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries, said a person with knowledge of the
offering, who asked not to be identified because he wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly about the transaction. The spread
was 179 basis points over Treasuries in the initial sale on
April 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Poland is coming to the market after financing 60 percent
of this year’s borrowing needs through the end of May. The
European Union’s biggest eastern member will meet its target to
narrow the  budget deficit  to 2.9 percent of economic output next
year, Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski said last month. The gap
reached 7.9 percent in 2010.  “We view Poland credit as attractive versus its similarly
rated peers,” said Mariusz Banasiak, who manages $14 billion in
emerging-market bonds and currencies at Prudential Investment
Management in  Newark ,  New Jersey . “We are giving the government
the benefit of the doubt that they will stick to their intention
of bringing down the fiscal deficit down over the next couple
years.”  Budget Gap  Poland may need to take additional steps to narrow next
year’s budget deficit because economic growth may be weaker than
the government foresees, the European Commission said today. The
government expects the economy to grow 4 percent this year and
next after expanding 3.8 percent in 2010.  The government last month raised 460 million euros ($648
million) from the sale of registered bonds maturing in June 2026
to German pension funds and insurers in a private offering. It
also sold debt in Swiss francs, euros and yen, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc managed the sale, the person said. The yield
on the bonds rose nine basis points to 4.7 percent as of 3:31
p.m. in  New York .  Poland is rated A2 at Moody’s Investors Service, the sixth
highest investment-grade category, and A- at Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch, the seventh highest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  