-- 
Poland Targeting Shale Gas With Exxon, Chevron to End Russian Dominance

-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i   a n d   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 
2011-06-08T12:32:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/poland-targeting-shale-gas-with-exxon-to-end-russian-dominance.html
The same technology that brought the
lowest natural gas prices to U.S. consumers since 2002 is being
unleashed in Eastern Europe, threatening to reduce  Russia ’s grip
on the region’s energy supplies.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) 
are among companies leading the drive to unlock gas trapped in
shale rocks from Poland to  Bulgaria  that may be enough to meet
regional demand for almost 80 years, according to the  Energy
Information Administration . Poland, the hub of the wildcatting,
has completed seven wells out of 124 planned, and the results
are being assessed now.  A successful drilling campaign would redraw the energy map
across Europe, a continent now reliant on Russia for about a
quarter of its natural gas. The efforts to find more gas are
taking on greater urgency as  Germany  plans to phase out nuclear
energy and limits tighten on emissions of carbon dioxide blamed
for global warming.  “The need in central and eastern  Europe  to at least try
and uncover if they have this resource is much, much higher than
it’s going to be in western Europe,” said  Oswald Clint , a
senior energy analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  London .  Obama Visit  When U.S. President Barack Obama visited Poland for the
first time last month, he offered to share the technology
developed from  Texas  to Pennsylvania that’s used to crack open
the gas-rich rock formations. Poland wants to start producing
gas from  shales  within a decade, about the same timeframe that
Germany has for closing its 17 nuclear reactors that produce 23
percent of the electricity for Europe’s biggest economy.  Eastern Europe may hold as much as 7.1 trillion cubic
meters of shale gas, the EIA estimates. Poland alone may sit
atop about 5.2 trillion cubic meters, equal to more than 300
years of domestic consumption.  “The geological conditions in Poland are phenomenal,” said
Ingo Kapp, a physicist at the GFZ German Research Centre for
Geosciences in Potsdam, Germany, who specializes in exploration
techniques. “There is a remarkable amount of gas deposits.”  To date, Poland has issued 86 exploration licenses. In
April, U.S. explorer  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  agreed to sell a 40
percent interest in 10 Polish licenses to  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  A month
later,  Total SA (FP)  signed an agreement with Exxon to take a 49
percent stake in two licenses in eastern Poland.  “The licensing process is pretty much done,” said Henryk Jacek Jezierski, Poland’s chief geologist. “Now getting into
Polish shale plays is possible only via acquisitions.”  Hydraulic Fracturing  Shale exploration is controversial because it involves the
drilling of hundreds of wells and blasting of rock with water
and chemicals, a process known as hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking. New York has temporarily banned the practice while it
develops new rules to prevent the risk of water contamination,
while  France  has threatened to withdraw exploration permits.  Those concerns have deterred neither Poland nor its
neighbors as they seek greater energy security after a dispute
between Russia and Ukraine disrupted gas supplies in 2009.
Ukraine, Romania, Hungary and Bulgaria are among other countries
to have decided to press ahead with shale exploration.  Ukraine has signed an agreement with Exxon and is also
holding talks with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Chevron. The
country may have 1.2 trillion cubic meters of recoverable shale
gas reserves, the second biggest in the region after Poland,
according to the EIA.  Price Cut  Efforts by Ukraine to negotiate a price cut for Russian gas
imports ended in failure yesterday after talks between Ukrainian
Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  and Vladimir Putin in Moscow.  Bulgaria awarded a 30 million-euro ($44 million) shale
drilling license to Chevron last month. The nation may hold as
much as 1 trillion cubic meters of gas, according to the Energy
and Economy Ministry.  “The gas issue in Europe and especially in central and
eastern Europe has much more significance than dollars per cubic
meters,” Bulgarian Energy and Economy Minister Traicho Traikov
said last month. “It has to do with national independence.”  Challenges include tight water supplies and lack of
transport infrastructure, according to Bernstein’s Clint. The
region won’t benefit from shale gas mining this decade, he said.  “It’s really far too early,” Clint said. “There should
not be anybody claiming that unconventional gas will wrap up
quickly across Europe because in reality there is not sufficient
data for anybody to make that conclusion.”  Secure Permits  Jacek Wroblewski, the country manager for  BNK Petroleum
Inc. (BKX)  in Poland, travels hundreds of miles a week across farmland
near the Baltic Sea to secure permits for old single-lane
country roads to transport parts of the 1,500 ton rigs. Many of
the roads were built to support vehicles of as much as 15 tons,
less than a third of the weight of some of the trucks he’ll need
for the job, he said. BNK owns stakes in six exploration
licenses in Poland.  Still, Poland and possibly Ukraine have a real shot at
developing a commercially viable shale gas industry given the
amount of gas trapped underground, Kapp said.  “Fracking is challenging, but not impossibly difficult,”
the physicist said. “We have great hopes for  Poland .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net 
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  