-- 
Porsche Only in China Has $220,000 Entry-Level Club Model: Cars

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-08T14:33:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/porsche-only-in-china-sells-220-000-entry-level-automobile-for-club-cars.html
At the Beijing Sports Car Club, a
$220,000 Porsche SE 911 counts as an entry-level model. Members
are competing with counterparts who race $3.9 million
Tramontanas and $4.3 million Bugatti Veyron 16.4s.  The number of millionaires in  China  jumped 31 percent last
year to more than 1.1 million, and with an average age of 39,
they are 15 years younger than their U.S. and European peers.
Car clubs, nonexistent in the country two years ago, provide
enthusiasts with a venue to demonstrate their vehicles and
carmakers an opportunity to win more converts.  “The car culture is developing in China very fast,” said
Jose Cremades, the local distributor for Spanish brand  a.d.
Tramontana . “The older generation still thinks about saving.
The new generation thinks about spending.”  China’s appetite for supercars has been stimulated by
economic expansion of 9.7 percent, rising property prices and a
strengthening yuan. The country’s 1.1 million millionaire
households rank third behind the U.S. and  Japan , according to
the  Boston Consulting Group . Deliveries of high-end cars may
rise 35 percent this year in the world’s fastest-growing major
economy, consultants Bain & Co. said.  Zhang Kuan, who drives a lime-green  Lamborghini SpA  LP640,
founded the  Beijing club , China’s first, in 2009. The first 12
members met through mutual friends and an Internet forum, said
Zhang, who works in the finance industry.  250 Members  The club now has more than 250 members from ages 18 to 60,
with women comprising about 10 percent. Other groups formed in
the city of Chongqing and the provinces of Yunnan, Zhejiang and
Fujian. Activities include dinners; driving days at circuits in
Beijing, Chengdu, and Qingdao; and community service.  “Many Chinese have not yet embraced the idea of fast
cars,” said Zhang, 32. “We need them to understand what fast
cars are about. They are a work of art.”  Wang Yuling, 28, a Yunnan Sports Car Club member, owns two
Porsches, including a black Cayman S. Wang, who bought her first
sports car in 2008 while running a modeling and events agency,
said joining the club helped her understand how the machine
works.  “When we are together, it’s like a big family,” said the
entrepreneur from Kunming. “I’ve learned a lot from the members
in the group.”  City Clubs  China’s car clubs differ from overseas counterparts like
the  Ferrari Club of America  and  Germany ’s Porsche Club
Hohensyburg in that they are organized by location, not marque.  Mainland club members also are younger and more active,
said Tania Cremades, head of China business development at
Tramontana, based in Girona,  Spain . The automaker sold 13 in
China last year, all to customers between 25 and 28 years old.  “In  Europe , you often go to a basement where someone has
his whole collection,” Cremades said through blaring techno
music at the Formula One track. “It’s like a museum. Here,
people are young, they want to use the car, try the power.”  Most of the rich are in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangdong,
with an average age 15 years younger than their global
counterparts, according to the Hurun Research Institute’s wealth
 report  released April 12.  Bugatti , maker of the world’s fastest production car, sold
its first car in China in 2008. The company, owned by  Volkswagen
AG (VOW3) , has boosted marketing at the Beijing and Shanghai car shows
and sponsored test drives.  Promising Market  “We cannot overlook such a promising market,” said David
Hu, Bugatti sales manager at Beijing Mei He Zhen Yong Motors
Trading Ltd., the brand’s official dealership. “Entering into
China is a natural step.”  Aston Martin , maker of the  One-77 , at $6 million the
world’s most-expensive car by sticker price, sold five allocated
for China before they reached the showroom, said Matthew
Bennett, Asia Pacific director at  Aston Martin Lagonda Ltd.   Only 77 of the models, which accelerate to 100 kilometers
(62 miles) per hour in 3.7 seconds, are sold worldwide.  “We can really see the potential here,” said Bennett, who
expects overall sales to more than double from about 100 cars
last year. “Younger people are being attracted to the brand.
I’d be very surprised if China’s not Aston’s No. 1 Asian market
this year.”  Chinese buyers of Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche and
Sant’Agata Bolognese, Italy-based Lamborghini brands typically
are 25-35 years old, about a decade younger than North American
and European buyers, the manufacturers said.  Porsche’s Target  Porsche targets record China sales this year of more than
20,000 vehicles after boosting 2010 deliveries by 63 percent.  “The economy started to develop extremely fast in China
over the last 10 years, which gave people the opportunity to
make a fortune much faster and earlier,” said Helmut Broeker,
Porsche’s head of China.  Porsche’s preferred shares fell as much as 95 cents, or 2
percent, to 46.15 euros and were down 1 percent as of 3:55 p.m.
in Frankfurt trading. The stock has dropped 9 percent this year,
valuing the carmaker at 14.2 billion euros ($20.8 billion). VW
dropped as much as 2 percent to 120.65 euros and was down 0.3
percent.  China will overtake the U.S. to become Lamborghini’s
biggest market this year, the company said in April.
Lamborghini, another Volkswagen unit, aims to boost sales by 46
percent to more than 300 cars this year, partly from demand for
its $1 million  Aventador LP 700-4 .  Andy Wong, 27-year-old president of the  Shanghai  Super Car
Club, owns four sports cars, including pink and white
Lamborghinis. Club members celebrate birthdays, take drives at
the Shanghai racetrack on weekends and meet every two weeks for
a meal.  “Men like exciting things,” said Wong, who works in the
real-estate industry. “If I have a bad day at work, or if I’m
feeling upset at night, I take my car out for a spin and I feel
better.”  --Liza Lin in Shanghai, with assistance from Tian Ying in
Beijing, Andreas Cremer in Berlin, Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan.
Editors: Kevin Orland, Jamie Butters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net ; 