-- 
PPR Won’t Target Large Acquisitions, Spokeswoman Says After Tribune Report

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-06-07T13:26:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/ppr-won-t-target-large-acquisitions-spokeswoman-says-after-tribune-report.html
PPR (PP)  SA, the owner of Gucci and Puma,
ruled out making big acquisitions and repeated it will target
mid-sized companies with high-growth potential as it reorganizes
around luxury goods, sports and lifestyle items.  PPR’s purchase of Volcom Inc. last month for $607.5 million
is indicative of the size of deals PPR is interested in, PPR
spokeswoman Charlotte Judet said today, repeating comments made
by Chief Executive Officer Francois-Henri Pinault. She commented
after a French newspaper reported the company was planning a
large purchase and cited Prada SpA,  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  and  Hugo
Boss AG (BOS)  as possible targets.  “When it comes to other market segments we will have the
same type of logic, trying to aim for small or mid-sized
companies with potential for growth,” Pinault said May 3 after
PPR announced the Volcom purchase. PPR, which is seeking to add
to its jewelry portfolio, isn’t in talks with any other targets,
Pinault said at the time.  PPR is reorganizing to focus on its  luxury-goods  division,
which includes Gucci, and a sports and lifestyle unit headed by
Puma as it seeks to tap rising demand for branded clothing and
accessories in  Asia  and  Latin America . The company, which sold
furniture retailer Conforama in March, plans also to dispose of
online retailer Redcats and the Fnac electronics and media chain
and use some of the proceeds for acquisitions.  Making a large acquisition “isn’t in their interest,”
said Fabio Fazzari, an analyst at Equita Sim in Milan. PPR
“would have to pay a lot to buy a large company without any
particular problems or divisions to reorganize,” he said,
adding that he sees the company being more likely to buy a
luxury or lifestyle brand with more potential for turnaround.  No acquisition will exceed PPR’s 5.3 billion-euro ($7.8
billion) bid for sporting-goods maker Puma AG in 2007, Pinault
said in February.  PPR ruled out making an offer for Burberry in
December, saying it did not match the company’s selection
criteria for its luxury portfolio. Pinault also ruled out
investing in Hermes International SCA in February, saying it was
too big.  Redcats Sale  PPR has started work on the sale of Redcats, which is
slated for the second half of 2011, and has hired Rothschild &
Cie. to arrange so-called staple financing, two people with
knowledge of the matter said last month. PPR’s remaining retail
activities have a value of 3.8 billion euros, analysts at CA
Cheuvreux, including Jurgen Kolb, estimated today in a note.  PPR will use some of the proceeds from the disposals to pay
down debt, which was 3.78 billion euros at the end of 2010,
Pinault has said.  Thomas Chauvet , an analyst at Citigroup in
London, expects PPR to cut that to 2.4 billion euros in 2011.
Pinault has said he doesn’t want debt to exceed two times
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization,
the level at which it hovered at the end of last year.  PPR’s 42 percent stake in CFAO, the African distribution
company it spun off in December 2009, is a “quality holding,”
the CEO said at a shareholder meeting last month.  Shares  PPR shares fell 80 cents, or 0.7 percent, to 116.60 euros,
giving the company a market value of 14.8 billion euros.
Burberry, known for its plaid prints, rose as much as 3.7
percent and traded 1 percent higher at 1,320 pence as of 2:03
p.m. in  London .  Hugo Boss , which is controlled by Permira
Advisers LLP, rose as much as 2.6 percent and traded 1.1 percent
higher at 61.97 euros at 3:05 p.m. local time.  Prada, which is planning an initial public offering in  Hong
Kong  this month, yesterday received bids for all of the shares
on offer for the sale on its first day of order taking.  A spokesman for Prada did not immediately return calls and
an email seeking comment. Jenna Littler, a spokeswoman for
Burberry, and Noemie de Andia, a spokeswoman for Permira,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  