-- 
Qatar Will Invite Railway Project Tenders Within Next Two Months

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-06-07T11:03:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/qatar-will-invite-railway-project-tenders-within-next-two-months.html
Qatar, host of the 2022 soccer  World
Cup , will invite bids for early work on a 130 billion-riyal ($36
billion) railway and metro system in the next two months, Geoff Mee, Qatar Railways Co.’s deputy chief executive officer, said.  “We will start to invite people to come forward to discuss
it with the intention we go to full contracts in the early part
of next year,” Mee said on the sidelines of the MEED Transport
conference in Doha, Qatar, today.  Ten packages worth between $1 billion and $1.5 billion will
be awarded for tunnels and metro stations in the second quarter
of next year, he said. Most of the network will be operational
by 2021, Abdulla Al-Subaie, managing director of Qatar Railways
Co., said today.  Qatar is using revenue from the world’s third-biggest
natural gas reserves to transform itself into a center for
culture, education and sport. The country beat the U.S.,
 Australia ,  South Korea  and  Japan  to win the right to stage the
2022 World Cup at a ceremony in Zurich in December. The country
pledged to build the metro and rail network. as well as hotels,
stadiums and roads, as part of its bid.  Qatar will invest about $88 billion in infrastructure for
the World Cup, Enrico Grino, Qatar National Bank’s assistant
general manager and head of project finance, said last month.  State-owned Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co. and
German state-owned rail operator  Deutsche Bahn  AG formed a
partnership two years ago to build the metro and rail network.
The metro lines will transport fans to 12 World Cup stadiums and
the long-distance rail network will link Qatar to  Saudi Arabia 
and, via a yet-to-be-built causeway, to the island kingdom of
Bahrain.  Qatari Diar and Deutsche Bahn said in 2009 that the railway
project would cost $25.3 billion. The budget has always been $36
billion, Al-Subaie said today. The rail network will be financed
by Qatar’s ministry of finance, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  