-- 
Ravaging Mountains and Lives in Coal Country: William D. Cohan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-06-07T04:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/ravaging-mountains-and-lives-in-coal-country-commentary-by-william-cohan.html
Sometimes an injustice is so
unconscionable that nothing short of a metaphorical call to arms
will suffice to right it. We have reached that point at Coal
River Mountain, in the heart of West Virginia coal country,
where  Massey Energy Co. (MEE)  is slowly but surely blowing the top off
the mountain. And the much-needed call to arms is a new
documentary film, “The Last Mountain.”  In its quest to get at the coal, Massey -- which last week
sold itself to  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  for more than $7
billion -- seems to have little regard for either the
environment or the lives of the people in the valleys below
these mountains, both of which are rapidly being ruined. (Massey
also owns the mine in Montcoal, West Virginia, where 29 miners
died after an explosion in April 2010.)  The physical destruction is cleverly hidden from easy
viewing by rows of trees along many  West Virginia  highways. But
“The Last Mountain” reveals the scarred landscape from above,
filmed from a helicopter. The hideous gashes to the otherwise
stunning mountain landscape have to be seen to be believed.  In the past decade, since the George W. Bush administration
amended a few choice words in the  Clean Water Act , coal
companies have destroyed around 500 Appalachian mountains by
literally taking their tops off. While the companies are then
supposed to undertake reclamation projects that will either
restore the land or put it to new economic use, a study by the
National Resources Defense Council found that 90 percent of the
sites had “no form of verifiable post-mining economic
reclamation.”  Mountaintop Removal  Massey claims that mountaintop removal is the “most
economical” way to get the coal and that, in any event, as
nearly half of the electricity used in this country comes from
burning coal -- 30 percent of which comes from Appalachia --
Americans had better get used to it.  “I don’t think people understand where electricity comes
from; I think most people feel like it’s an entitlement,” Bill
Raney, president of the  West Virginia Coal Association , explains
as the film opens. He continues, with heavy sarcasm: “It’s
contained in the Bill of Rights somewhere, and everybody is
entitled to it. And we don’t need to worry about where it comes
from, because every time I flip the switch, it comes on.””  Coal River Mountain , one of the last peaks in its area yet
to be scalped, is now in Massey’s sights and the excavation
there has begun. As repugnant as destroying mountaintops is,
according to the film, the coal companies operating in West
Virginia have also ruined a million acres of forest, buried
2,000 miles of streams, and contaminated thousands of miles more
of waterways with cancer-causing heavy metals and other
pollutants. Clearly, this must stop, and soon.  Economic Policy   “Good environmental policy is identical to good economic
policy, if we want to measure our economy based upon how it
produces jobs and the dignity of jobs over the generations and
over the long term,” says Robert F. Kennedy Jr., the
environmental lawyer and activist.  “If on the other hand, we
want to do what Massey Coal and the big industry wants us to do,
which is to treat the planet as if it were a business in
liquidation, convert our natural resources, including the State
of West Virginia, to cash as quickly as possible, have a few
years of pollution-based prosperity, we can generate an
instantaneous  cash flow , and the illusion of a prosperous
economy, but our children are going to pay for our joy ride.”  Ghost Towns  As the documentary makes clear, the children and grown-ups
of West Virginia are paying a high price. One hamlet after
another is being turned into a ghost town as jobs dry up and
pollution from coal mining makes the water in local aquifers and
streams undrinkable. “The coal company’s ultimate goal is to
depopulate these valleys and turn them into wastelands,”
explains Maria Gunnoe, a local resident, in the film. “And,
quite honestly, they’ve got a good start. I can recall, right
off the top of my head, 25 communities that has been
depopulated.”  Then there is the extremely high incidence of rare forms of
cancer. Jennifer Hall-Massey, from the town of Prenter explains
in the film how in one small cluster of mobile homes there were
six cases of  brain cancer , including that of her 29-year-old
brother. Three teachers at Marsh Fork Elementary School, which
is adjacent to a coal-loading silo owned by a Massey subsidiary,
died of cancer. Coal dust continuously flies off conveyor belts
and gets into the air breathed in the school.  Also nearby is an impoundment lake containing 2.8 billion
gallons of sludge -- the waste created by washing coal before it
gets shipped to the  power plants  -- rife with toxic heavy metals
such as arsenic, mercury and uranium.  Hornet’s Nest  “You can’t believe it,” says Michael Schnayerson, a
Vanity Fair writer who has chronicled much of this destruction.
“I mean, it’s this huge, almost like hornet’s nest, that’s
sitting over the school. And, there is no doubt that a serious
leak would, if it happened, wipe those kids out.” (Thanks to
the persistence of the community, a new school is being built to
replace Marsh Fork.)  Residents in the small communities around Coal Mountain are
bound and determined to take a final stand with Massey over Coal
Mountain. Instead of taking the top off the mountain to get at
the coal underneath, some propose placing a windmill farm on the
ridges of the mountain, which they claim would not only create
jobs but also increase  tax revenue  and supply electricity to
more than 70,000 homes. Yes, wind farms have yet to prove
themselves as an alternative energy source. But the residents
are serious enough about the idea that they paid for the
feasibility study themselves.  America’s Coal Connection  “Coal is mean,” concludes Gunnoe, who won the 2009
Goldman Prize, a top environmental award, for her efforts to
stop mountaintop removal. “Coal is cruel and coal kills. And
the American people need to find their position where that is.
You’re connected to coal, whether you realize it or not.
Everybody’s connected to this. And everybody’s causing it, and
everybody’s allowing it.”  At the conclusion of a recent showing of “The Last
Mountain” in  New York City , Kennedy rhetorically asked the
audience what the community and press reaction would be if
corporations were busy taking off the tops of mountains not in
West Virginia, but in the Catskills, the Berkshires or the
Adirondacks. Wouldn’t the outrage be immediate and deafening?  (William D. Cohan is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net  