-- 
RBA’s Stevens Holds Rates as Currency Strength Hurts Factories, Retailers

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-06-08T02:38:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/rba-holds-rates-as-currency-strength-hurts-factories-retailers.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia ’s
decision to extend a pause in interest-rate increases signals
concern that a rising currency and the developed world’s highest
borrowing costs are restraining growth.  Governor Glenn Stevens held the overnight cash rate target
at 4.75 percent yesterday and acknowledged the subdued outlook
for industries other than mining and energy. “Outside the
resources sector, investment intentions have been revised lower
recently,” he said in a statement in Sydney.  The comments may reflect worries of three representatives
of the RBA’s nine-member board who have ties to  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) ,
Australia’s biggest retailer,  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) , its second-
largest newspaper publisher, and  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , the
nation’s largest steelmaker. Retailers and factories are getting
pummeled by about a 30 percent gain in the currency in the past
year that cuts export income while higher borrowing costs are
discouraging spending.  “The RBA board has those dovish members and they are now
worried about the two-speed economy,” said Roland Randall, an
economist at TD Securities Inc. in  Singapore . “There seems to
be a divergence between the position of the board, which is
reflected in the statement, and last month’s statement on
monetary policy, which reflects the view of the staff.”  In a quarterly policy statement on May 6, the RBA said
rates will need to rise “at some point” to contain inflation.
That phrase wasn’t in yesterday’s statement.  Rate Guidance  While the decision to hold was forecast by investors and 23
of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, they had expected
guidance on when the next rate increase was likely to take
place.  The Australian dollar reversed gains and investors cut bets
the RBA will raise rates in the third quarter after the
decision. The currency traded at $1.0655 as of 12:23 p.m. today
in Sydney from $1.0744 before yesterday’s announcement.  Traders see a 10 percent chance Stevens will increase
borrowing costs in July, down from 38 percent before yesterday’s
announcement, and a 30 percent chance in August, a decline from
60 percent.  “The RBA seems to have stepped back from the warnings
issued in the monetary policy statement and now appears to be
comfortable with the inflation outlook for the next 12 months,”
said  Stephen Roberts , a senior economist at Nomura Australia
Ltd. in Sydney.  Low Unemployment  Stevens said yesterday’s decision reflects “softened”
prices for raw materials and an  unemployment rate  that’s been
little changed near 5 percent. Consumer prices that were boosted
by natural disasters earlier this year aren’t expected to
accelerate much above the RBA’s inflation target range of 2
percent to 3 percent, he said.  “The weather-affected prices should fall back later in the
year, though substantial rises in utilities prices are still
occurring,” Stevens said in the statement. “The bank expects
that, as the temporary price shocks dissipate over the coming
quarters, CPI inflation will be close to target over the next 12
months.”  The central bank has relied on the Australian dollar’s
strength to tighten monetary conditions. The local currency
reached $1.1012 on May 2, the highest since exchange controls
were scrapped in 1983.  ‘Continued Restraint’  “The  exchange rate  remains, in real effective terms, close
to its highest level in several decades,” Stevens said. “If
sustained, this could be expected to exert continued restraint
on the traded sector.”  The RBA has expressed concern that higher consumption will
clash with capacity constraints such as skill shortages caused
by mining and energy investment that the government estimates
will reach A$76 billion ($81 billion) next fiscal year.  Stevens has sought to restrain household spending, which
accounts for 55 percent of Australia’s economy, with 175 basis
points of rate increases from October 2009 to November, letting
the resources boom drive growth.  The RBA’s board has five representatives from industry,
including Jillian Broadbent, a director at Woolworths; Roger Corbett, chairman of Fairfax; Graham Kraehe, chairman of
BlueScope Steel; John Akehurst, a director at  Origin Energy
Ltd. (ORG) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP) ’ partner in an $18.5 billion liquefied
natural gas project in Australia; and Catherine Tanna, executive
vice president at BG Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest gas
producer.  Non-Industry Members  The board’s other members are Stevens, Deputy Governor Ric Battellino, Secretary to the Treasury Martin Parkinson, and
 Warwick McKibbin , an economics professor at  Australian National
University .  The nation’s economy shrank 1.2 percent in the first
quarter, the most since 1991, as floods in the northeast slashed
coal exports, a June 1 report showed. Even so, bonds fell the
most in almost four months after the data as investors focused
on final demand, the broadest measure of spending by government,
consumers and businesses, which more than doubled to 1.3
percent.  Stevens has held rates in part to allow the economy in
Queensland state to recover from January floods that Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  called the nation’s most expensive
natural disaster.  In yesterday’s statement, Stevens said the GDP report
showed a “solid increase in aggregate demand.”  A government report today showed home-loan approvals rose
in April by the most since March 2009, the first increase in
financings this year.  Stevens also said yesterday that “uncertainty over the
prospects for resolution of the banking and sovereign debt
problems in  Europe  has increased over the past couple of months,
which has been adding to financial market volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  