-- 
RBC Capital Markets Combines Loan Sales Teams, Hires Peters From Citigroup

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 
2011-06-07T16:21:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/rbc-capital-markets-combines-loan-sales-teams-hires-peters-from-citigroup.html
RBC Capital Markets said it combined
its new-issue and secondary loan sales teams as the unit of
 Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  seeks to boost its ranking as the 10th
largest underwriter of U.S. leveraged loans.  Sean Peters will join the new sales team from  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , according to people with knowledge of the matter, who
declined to be identified because the appointment hasn’t been
announced publicly. Peters said he couldn’t comment. Mark
Costiglio, a Citigroup spokesman, confirmed Peters has left the
bank.  Under the new structure, every sales person will market
loans, high-yield and distressed debt for primary and secondary
markets, Mike Meyer, head of U.S. credit at RBC Capital Markets,
said in a telephone interview. The team, the majority of which
is in New York, reports to Meyer and Darren Lowe, head of U.S.
sales, fixed income and currencies, he said.  “We are matching our distribution with the investor
base,” Meyer said. “Money managers have typically integrated
with analysts and traders touching all non-investment grade
products such as leveraged loans and high-yield bonds.” Meyer
declined to comment about Peters.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  has made a similar move, saying in an
internal memo last week that it combined most of its loan sales
force into one team to be headed by Douglas Antonacci and Howard
Sysler. The secondary-sales team works with traders to help sell
loans that had previously been distributed. RBC Capital Markets
began integrating its loans and bonds sales forces about a year
ago, Meyer said.  ‘Knocking on the Door’  “This is being driven not only to match the needs of our
clients, but also to keep up with our overall growth,” Meyer
said. “We are now in the top 10 of the loan league tables and
are knocking on the door of the top ten of the high-yield league
tables.”  RBC Capital Markets  is the 10th largest underwriter of
leveraged loans in the U.S. according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, it finished 2010 as the 15th largest. It’s also the
12th largest arranger of high-yield bonds in the U.S. this year,
compared with 13th biggest last year, the data show. Bank of
America is the largest underwriter of leveraged loans year-to-
date, while JPMorgan Chase & Co. is the biggest arranger of
high-yield bonds.  In the past two months, RBC Capital Markets served as one
of the lenders for TriZetto Group Inc.’s $750 million of loans
and was involved in a similar-size financing for Star West
Generation LLC, the energy company owned by Highstar Capital,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  