-- 
RBS Rebuilds in Asia After Equity Rank Fell in Retrenchment

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-06-08T01:22:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/rbs-rebuilds-in-asia-after-equity-ranking-fell-in-retrenchment.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
plans to expand operations in China and rebuild its Asian equity
capital markets unit after the workforce at its corporate and
 investment banking  operations in the region dropped last year.  RBS targets revenue growth of 15 percent to 20 percent at
its global banking business in the Asia-Pacific region this year,
Matthew Kirkby, the head of the unit, said in a June 1 interview.
Revenue in China may rise at double that pace, he said. The
workforce at Kirkby’s division fell by about 20 percent in 2010.  Kirkby, 42, said he’s hired more than 40 investment bankers
in the Asia-Pacific region this year as RBS aims to get more
work helping companies sell stock and bonds and offer them
services such as takeover advice and cash management. The bank
slumped in Asian equity underwriting following its 2008 taxpayer
bailout, as dealmakers left after the U.K. government forced RBS
to curtail compensation.  “We had too many people with the wrong skill sets,” said
Kirkby, who moved to  Hong Kong  from  London  in January. “So
we’ve prioritized two things -- the two big ones for me in 2011
are getting China right and rebuilding our ECM business.”  Edinburgh-based RBS tumbled to 32nd place in arranging
stock sales in the Asia-Pacific region this year from 14th in
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bankers including
John Sturmey, Patrick Ngan and  Stanley Ho  left the equity
capital markets team last year just as companies in the region
issued record amounts of stock.  Other departures in 2010 included Raymond Yin, co-head of
investment banking for China.  ‘Less is More’  The bank first focused on expanding its debt capital
markets and equity derivatives businesses in  Asia , concentrating
efforts on a smaller number of clients to whom RBS could sell a
variety of products, Kirkby said.  RBS ranks ninth in arranging bond sales denominated in
dollars, euros and yen in the Asia-Pacific region outside  Japan 
this year, its best showing since the takeover of ABN Amro
Holding NV in 2007, Bloomberg data show. It is second in sales
of yuan-denominated bonds in Hong Kong, behind  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
the data show.  RBS also is the top arranger of foreign-currency bond sales
by Indian companies this year, topping Citigroup Inc., according
to Bloomberg data.  “Historically, this organization has tried to do too many
things,” said Kirkby. “Less is more. We’re doing fewer things
a lot better than we were doing a year ago.”  China Venture  Kirkby was tapped by John Hourican, head of RBS’s global
banking and markets division, in September to move to Hong Kong
and rebuild the Asian investment banking operations and
integrate them more closely with the markets business. He kept
the position as global head of corporate finance.  RBS in April hired Sherry Liu from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as
chairman and chief executive officer of its China operations,
and it plans to hire several more senior bankers there this year,
Kirkby said. Zhu Qing joined RBS as a managing director and head
of China energy and resources banking this week. He previously
worked at JPMorgan for four years.  Since Liu joined, RBS was picked to help China Power New
Energy Development Ltd. sell 500 million yuan ($77 million) of
bonds, and helped arrange a $150 million offering of convertible
debt for China Power International Development Ltd.  The company last month announced a Chinese securities
venture with Guolian Securities Co. The Hua Ying Securities Co.
venture will allow RBS to manage stock and bond sales in China,
enabling it to compete directly for underwriting business with
rivals including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and UBS AG in the
country.  Samsonite IPO  Samsonite LLC, the U.S. luggage maker in with RBS holds a
30 percent stake, selected the lender and three other banks to
underwrite an initial public offering in Hong Kong that may
raise as much as $1.5 billion. RBS also helped arrange a $700
million stock sale by Seoul-based OCI Co., the world’s second-
biggest polysilicon maker.  A setback came last week when Resourcehouse Ltd.,
Australian billionaire  Clive Palmer ’s unprofitable iron ore and
coal company, canceled plans to sell stock in an IPO in Hong
Kong for the fourth time in two years. RBS was among four banks
working on the deal.  The lender hasn’t underwritten any overseas stock sales by
Chinese companies this year, Bloomberg data show. It worked on
four such deals in 2010 and three the year before.  “We still have a lot of work to do in  China ,” Kirkby said,
adding that the revenue contribution RBS gets from the country
is “too low.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  