-- 
Treasury Said to Be Reluctant to Sell Part of GM Holding at Current Price

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-06-07T20:44:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/treasury-said-to-be-reluctant-to-sell-part-of-gm-holding-at-current-price.html
The U.S. Treasury Department is
reluctant to sell part of its 33 percent stake in  General Motors
Co. (GM)  to the company at this point because the price is too low, a
person familiar with the matter said.  Executives at Detroit-based GM have discussed buying some
of the Treasury’s shares or allowing all holders of common stock
to sell back shares, said the person, who asked not to be
identified revealing private discussions. The Treasury doesn’t
want to sell GM while the shares are trading at 13 percent less
than the $33 initial public offering price, the person said.  The government is also disinterested in the idea because
selling shares to GM may lead to criticism that the automaker is
getting a preferential deal, the person said.  The Treasury Department sold 28 percent of GM at $33 in its
IPO in November. The government would like to get at least that
price in a stock sale and preferably more, people familiar with
the matter have said.  The government’s 500 million shares in Detroit-based GM
would be valued at about $14.3 billion as of yesterday’s closing
price. GM rose 22 cents to $28.78 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  GM management is considering uses for the $30.6 billion in
cash and marketable securities that the automaker had at the end
of the first quarter.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said the company is
considering all uses for its cash, including paying down debt
and shoring up the company’s pension plan. The automaker said it
had $30.6 billion in cash at the end of the first quarter.  Akerson declined to comment on the prospect of a share
buyback.  “We’ll see,” he told reporters before today’s annual
meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in  Detroit  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  