-- 
Republicans’ Job-Growth Supply-Side Time Warp: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-06-07T04:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/republicans-job-growth-supply-side-time-warp-ramesh-ponnuru.html
Republicans are trying to change the
subject from deficits and entitlements to the economy and jobs.
In recent weeks, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor and Senator Rob Portman have each introduced jobs plans. This new focus is
in part a reaction to polls saying that the Republican Medicare
plan is unpopular and that the weak economy remains voters’ top
concern.  But it also reflects an old division among Republicans --
and reveals the inadequacy of the party’s recent approach to
reviving the economy.  The party formed its current economic views in the late
1970s, when an upstart band of journalists, politicians and
economists, soon labeled “supply-siders,” overthrew its previous
conventional wisdom. Representative Jack Kemp and the Wall
Street Journal editorial page argued that old-style Republicans
emphasized austerity and balanced budgets too much. This so-
called root canal economics made for a losing political
strategy.  Worse, it left Republicans supporting tax increases to pay
for Democratic spending programs rather than promoting their own
ideas.  That’s why  Newt Gingrich , then a young House ally of the
supply-siders, called old-school Republican Senator Bob Dole a
“tax collector for the welfare state.”  Support for Growth  Instead, the supply-siders argued that growth should take
priority, and that marginal tax rates should be cut so that
people would have stronger incentives to work, save and invest.
 Ronald Reagan  sided with the supply-siders, and they have
dominated the party ever since.  But the growth of the deficit -- and of the Tea Party
movement -- has brought spending cuts back in vogue. In recent
months, Republicans’ main priorities have been cutting spending
in this year’s budget, cutting spending in next year’s budget
and cutting spending in exchange for an increase in the debt
limit. Representative  Paul Ryan , chairman of the House Budget
Committee, is responsible for much of this focus. But he also
cites Kemp as one of his political heroes, and has privately
expressed concern that the party’s support for economic growth
is getting lost.  That’s what worries Cantor and Portman, too.  “You can’t just cut your way to the growth you want,”
Cantor told me. Portman says voter sentiment in his home state
of  Ohio  is deeply negative about the economy. He says, “It’s not
technically a double-dip recession but it sure feels like that
to most people.” Both of them try to marry the party’s deficit-
cutting and growth-increasing impulses. “We’re now so deep into
a fiscal hole that it’s impossible to get out of it without
growth,” Portman said in an interview.  ‘Tried and True’  Cantor’s plan includes cutting the top income-tax rate on
individuals and corporations to 25 percent, the enactment of
pending free-trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and  South
Korea , increased domestic energy production and measures to
restrain regulation. Portman’s plan includes all of these
elements, too, though sometimes more vaguely. Both legislators
concede that these ideas aren’t new. They’re long-standing
Republican policy preferences. Portman parries the charge of
staleness by referring to his ideas as “tried and true.”  Cantor and Portman are surely right that their party needs
an economic policy as well as a budget policy, right that this
policy ought to be geared toward growth and right on many of the
specifics as well. Those free-trade agreements haven’t been
languishing in Congress because there is serious doubt that they
would modestly help the economy. The roadblock has been the
reluctance of Democratic politicians to cross unions.  Changed Circumstances  But half-remembered bits of Reaganism aren’t a sufficient
conservative agenda for today. Circumstances have changed. Asked
how his bill would improve wages, Portman told me that “wage
growth has always accompanied economic growth.” That used to be
true, but it wasn’t true during the middle of the past decade.
During what some called “the Bush boom,” even as the size of the
economy increased, the rise in health-care costs kept middle-
income workers from getting raises.  Neither Cantor nor Portman does much to address this
problem. If we want a thriving middle class, which is what most
Americans have in mind when they think of a strong economy,
we’ll have to address it.  A related defect of these plans is political: They provide
no direct benefit for middle-class voters. Yet the supply-side
revolution was politically successful in the first place because
it offered these voters the chance to keep money in their
pockets. Reagan in 1980 promised to cut tax rates for everyone
and stop inflation from pushing middle-class voters into higher
tax brackets. He won re-election, and his vice president won the
election to succeed him, in part by promising to keep these
voters’ taxes low. In 1994 and 2000, Republicans again made big
wins in part by promising to cut taxes for middle-class parents.  Out of Touch  In recent years, though, Republicans have tried to cut
taxes for corporations and high earners without doing anything
for the middle class. (Anything direct, that is: The middle
class was told it would benefit from higher growth.) It’s not
surprising, then, that the Republican advantage on taxes has
declined -- or that in recent elections, most voters haven’t
told pollsters that Republicans are “in touch” with people like
them.  Republicans haven’t learned the lessons of their success
under Reagan or their failure under Bush. The country’s fiscal
straits may make it difficult for Republicans to devise
conservative ways of responding to the economic challenges that
middle-class Americans now face.  But it must be said that they don’t appear to be trying
very hard.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 