-- 
Reserve Bank of Australia Says Key Rate ‘Appropriate’ (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 8 6 7 8 2 9 ]   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y   [ ]
-- 
2011-06-07T04:33:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/reserve-bank-of-australia-says-key-rate-appropriate-text-.html
Following is the  text  of a statement
by  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor Glenn Stevens explaining a
decision today to leave the official cash rate at 4.75 percent.  At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate
unchanged at 4.75 per cent.  The global economy is continuing its expansion, led by very
strong growth in the Asian region, though the recent disaster in
 Japan  is having a major impact on Japanese production, and
significant effects on production of some manufactured products
further afield. Commodity prices have generally softened a
little of late, but they remain at very high levels, which is
weighing on income and demand in major countries and also
pushing up measures of consumer price inflation. In response, a
number of the countries with stronger expansions have been
moving to tighten their monetary policy settings over recent
months. Overall, though, financial conditions for the global
economy remain accommodative. Uncertainty over the prospects for
resolution of the banking and sovereign debt problems in  Europe 
has increased over the past couple of months, which has been
adding to financial market volatility.  Australia’s terms of trade are reaching very high levels and
national income has been growing strongly. Private investment is
picking up, led by very large capital spending programs in the
resources sector, in response to high levels of commodity prices.
Outside the resources sector, investment intentions have been
revised lower recently. In the household sector thus far, there
continues to be a degree of caution in spending and borrowing
and a higher rate of saving out of current income. The impetus
from earlier Australian Government spending programs is now also
abating, as had been intended.  The floods and cyclones over the summer have reduced output in
some key sectors. As a result there was a sharp fall in real GDP
in the March quarter, despite a solid increase in aggregate
demand. The resumption of coal production in flooded mines is
taking longer than initially expected, but production levels are
now increasing again and there will be a mild boost to demand
from the broader rebuilding efforts as they get under way. Over
the medium term, overall growth is likely to be at trend or
higher.  Growth in employment has moderated over recent months and the
 unemployment rate  has been little changed, near 5 per cent. Most
leading indicators suggest that this slower pace of employment
growth is likely to continue in the near term. Reports of skills
shortages remain confined, at this point, to the resources and
related sectors. After the significant decline in 2009, growth
in wages has returned to rates seen prior to the downturn.  Overall credit growth remains quite modest. Signs have continued
to emerge of some greater willingness to lend, and business
credit has expanded this year after a period of contraction.
Growth in credit to households, on the other hand, has softened,
as have housing prices. The  exchange rate  remains, in real
effective terms, close to its highest level in several decades.
If sustained, this could be expected to exert continued
restraint on the traded sector.  CPI inflation has risen over the past year, reflecting the
effects of extreme weather and rises in utilities prices, with
lower prices for traded goods providing some offset. The
weather-affected prices should fall back later in the year,
though substantial rises in utilities prices are still occurring.
The Bank expects that, as the temporary price shocks dissipate
over the coming quarters, CPI inflation will be close to target
over the next 12 months.  At today’s meeting, the Board judged that the current mildly
restrictive stance of monetary policy remained appropriate. In
future meetings, the Board will continue to assess carefully the
evolving outlook for growth and inflation. 