-- 
Resolution Plans to Buy Back 250 Million Pounds of Shares

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-07T08:05:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/resolution-plans-to-buy-back-250-million-pounds-of-shares-2-.html
Resolution Ltd., the insurance buyout
firm founded by  Clive Cowdery , plans to buy back 250 million
pounds ($410 million) of shares, part of a plan to return 500
million pounds to investors over the next year.  Resolution will buy back stock on the open market from
tomorrow, the Guernsey, Channel Islands-based company said in a
statement today. A further 250 million pounds will be handed to
shareholders in the first half of 2012, the firm said.  Resolution, Cowdery’s second merger vehicle by the same
name, has purchased  Friends Provident , Axa U.K. life and Bupa
Health since 2009 and is merging the three life insurers before
a planned sale by 2013. Chief Executive Officer John Tiner today
said the firm won’t tap shareholders for more cash to fund
future acquisitions.  “Resolution has fired the starting gun on what looks like
an aggressive de-cumulation phase,”  Kevin Ryan , a London-based
analyst at Investec Plc with a “buy” rating on the stock, wrote
in a note to clients today. “A sustained operating squeeze seems
likely to be placed on the business to create an exemplary cash
cow.”  The company plans to release 235 million pounds of capital
from merging the three businesses this year, it said. That money
will help to fund the second part of the return to shareholders.
The firm will cut 400 employees this year to save 39 million
pounds by the end of 2011.  Resolution’s plans to return cash won’t affect its
dividend, which is “expected to increase accordingly,”
Resolution said.  Other Transactions?  The stock rose 3 percent to 308.9 pence at 9 a.m. in London
trading today for a market value of about 4.5 billion pounds.
Resolution is the best-performing stock in the  FTSE ASX Life
Insurance (FALIFE)  Index over the last six months after saying in January
it didn’t need to sell more shares to fund acquisitions to meet
its targeted “mid-teens” returns for investors.  “There may be other transactions,” Tiner said today.
“They just won’t involve the raising of new cash from
shareholders,” he said.  Resolution’s holding company receives strategic advice from
a separate firm named Resolution Operations, of which Cowdery is
a partner. That firm will consider further restructuring
projects in financial services, Tiner said today.  “Resolution Operations will continue to take to investors
restructuring projects in other fields, that we’ve discussed
before, that will be established through new vehicles,” Tiner
said. “They won’t be executed through  Resolution Ltd. (RSL) ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 