-- 
Ringgit Halts 2-Day Gain on Concern Global Recovery Faltering

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 
2011-06-07T09:04:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/ringgit-retreats-on-concern-global-economic-recovery-faltering.html
Malaysia’s ringgit halted a two-day
gain as concern the global economic recovery is faltering
heightened risk aversion and damped demand for emerging-market
assets.  The U.S. reported June 3 that payrolls grew at the slowest
pace in eight months in May and the  unemployment rate  jumped to
the highest level this year.  Greece ’s efforts to resolve its
debt crisis are being complicated by a failure by European
regulators to make banks raise enough capital to withstand a
default. The “fragilities” of  Europe ’s banking industry mean a
Greek default isn’t an option, European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said last week.  “People are selling emerging-market currencies because of
the ongoing situation in Greece,” said Azmi Shukri Rahman, a
foreign-exchange trader at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur. “I don’t think the ringgit will fall too much given the
expectation of a rate increase.”  The ringgit traded at 3.0075 per dollar as of 4:57 p.m. in
 Kuala Lumpur , little changed from 3.0085 yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  A government report on June 9 may show factory output rose
2.5 percent in April from a year earlier, compared with 2.4
percent in March, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank raised its overnight policy rate to 3
percent from 2.75 percent on May 5. The monetary authority will
next review borrowing costs on July 7. Inflation was at a two-
year high of 3.2 percent in April.  Government bonds  fell. The yield on the 4.16 percent note
due July 2021 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
4.04 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 