-- 
Rio Tinto Says $10 Billion Guinea Ore Mine Attracts Sovereign Wealth Funds

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-06-07T09:56:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/rio-says-10-billion-guinea-mine-attracts-sovereign-wealth-funds.html
Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s second-
biggest mining company, said its Simandou  iron-ore  mine project
in  Guinea  has attracted interest from sovereign wealth funds.  The development, a venture with Aluminum Corp. of China
Ltd., has attracted “strong interest from other sovereign
wealth funds and international financiers,” Alan Davies,
president of international operations, said in a slide
 presentation  posted on London-based Rio’s website today. The
company has spent $1.5 billion at the West African site to-date
and production is scheduled to start in 2015, it said.  Simandou has been described by Rio Tinto as one of the
world’s biggest undeveloped iron-ore deposits, with a resource
of 2.4 billion metric tons of the steelmaking raw material.
Baosteel Group Corp.,  China ’s second-largest steelmaker, is
“very interested” in participating in Simandou, Chairman  Xu Lejiang  said in an interview in Shanghai last month.  Prices for iron ore delivered to China, the biggest buyer,
have risen almost threefold in the past two years as demand from
steelmakers in the country has surged.  “They must find a partner in China,” Xu said last month
when asked whether he would be interested in partnering with
Chalco, as Aluminum Corp. is known. “Chalco must sell iron ore
to China from its investment because it isn’t an iron ore
user.”  The Simandou project also includes a 650 kilometer (404
mile) railroad and four-berth wharf. The total development cost
will be more than $10 billion, Rio said today.  The site may cost as much as $19 billion to develop, based
on similar expansions by BHP Billiton Ltd. in  Western Australia ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in an April report. Chalco agreed to
pay $1.35 billion for a 44.65 percent stake.  Settlement Payment  Rio said in April it had agreed to pay Guinea $700 million
in a so-called settlement agreement. The accord “gives us
the certainty we need to allow us to invest and move forward
quickly,”  Sam Walsh , chief executive officer of Rio’s iron ore
unit, said at the time.  The settlement came after President  Alpha Conde  ordered the
drafting of a policy giving the country at least a one-third
stake in mining projects. Guinea has the right to take as much
as a 35 percent stake in the mining assets at Simandou and a 51
percent self-funded interest in the infrastructure assets,
according to the slide presentation today.  The cash price of 62 percent-iron ore arriving at China’s
Tianjin port almost tripled to $170.20 a ton by June 6, from
Nov. 21, 2008, when data became available, according to the
Steel Index.  Rio is the world’s second-largest mining company by sales,
trailing  BHP Billiton . Brazil’s Vale SA is the third-largest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 