-- 
Roche, Siemens, ISYS-Google, Best Buy: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-07T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/roche-siemens-isys-google-best-buy-whiteout-intellectual-property.html
The U.S. Supreme Court, in a ruling
that limits the patent rights of research universities, threw
out Stanford University’s suit against a  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  unit
over methods for testing the effectiveness of AIDS treatments.  Voting 7-2, the justices upheld a lower court’s conclusion
that a scientist working at Stanford in Palo Alto,  California ,
transferred his rights to the discoveries to a company whose
line of business Roche later bought. Under the court’s
reasoning, the transfer made the company a co-owner of three
disputed patents.  The ruling is a setback for universities, which had
contended the transfer was barred under a U.S. law that governs
federally funded research. Universities said earlier that a
ruling favoring Roche might cast doubt on patents stemming from
hundreds of billions of dollars in research.  The decision is a victory for companies that collaborate
with universities in research.  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  were among the companies that
supported Roche, the world’s largest maker of cancer drugs.  The dispute turned on a 1980 law that allocates patent
rights among the government, investors and institutions that
receive federal money. Writing for the court in yesterday’s
opinion, Chief Justice John Roberts said that law didn’t
displace the longstanding principle that inventors have first
claim to their discoveries.  “Although much in intellectual property law has changed in
the 220 years since the first Patent Act, the basic idea that
inventors have the right to patent their inventions has not,”
Roberts wrote.  Justices Stephen Breyer and Ruth Bader Ginsburg dissented.  Universities are already in the practice of securing  patent
rights  for work done by employees, said Steve Chang, a patent
lawyer with Banner & Witcoff in  Washington .  He said a victory for Stanford would have created
“paranoia” in cases involving the transfer of rights by an
employee to a third party.  “What would have happened is that each one of those third
parties would have had to question whether the assignment they
got from the employee effectively transferred anything,” Chang
said. “There’s a chance the employee didn’t have rights to
assign in the first place.”  The case is Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior
University v. Roche Molecular Systems, 09-1159.  Siemens’s Osram Sues Samsung Claiming Patent Infringement (1)  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s Osram unit sued Samsung Electronics Co. and LG
Electronics Inc. in the U.S. and  Germany  over flat-panel
displays, Osram said yesterday in a statement.  Samsung is infringing some of 10 U.S. patents, Munich-based
Osram said in papers filed yesterday in federal court in
Wilmington,  Delaware . It asked for damages and an order to stop
the infringement.  “Samsung has, without authorization or license,
infringed,” and “in a willful and wanton manner in deliberate
disregard of the patent rights,” Osram contends in the
complaint.  Osram said in its statement the patents involve technology
used in LED displays for light-conversion and electrical and
thermal connections in backlighting for TV sets and monitors. In
addition to the U.S. suits, it sued LG in  Japan , it said.  Complaints were filed with the U.S. International Trade
Commission in Washington seeking to block imports of the Samsung
and LG products. The ITC complaint against LG Electronics also
accuses LG Innotek Co., which supplies LEDs to LG Electronics
and is partly owned by the Seoul-based company.  The ITC is an independent agency that investigates
allegations of unfair trade practices. It has the power to block
products that violate U.S. patent rights. If it agrees to
investigate the claims, its review will take from 15 to 18
months.  The Samsung ITC case is In the Matter of Light-Emitting
Diodes and Products Containing Same, Complaint  No. 2813 , and the
LG case is In the Matter of Certain Light-Emitting Diodes,
Complaint.  No. 2812 , both U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington). The Delaware lawsuit is Osram GmbH v. Samsung
Electronics Co., U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Freescale Agrees to License Rambus Patents to Settle Lawsuit  Rambus Inc. (RMBS) , a designer of high-speed memory chips, said it
settled a patent dispute with Freescale Semiconductor Holdings
over inventions for memory controllers.  Freescale, the largest supplier of chips to the U.S.
automobile industry, agreed to license the Rambus patents for
five years for undisclosed terms, according to yesterday’s
statement from Sunnyvale, California-based Rambus. The
technology relates to “memory controllers and serial links in a
broad range of logic integrated circuit products,” Rambus said.  Rambus filed the infringement complaint against Austin,
Texas-based Freescale as part of a U.S. International Trade
Commission case against  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  The case
against those two companies is pending as a companion to a civil
lawsuit filed in federal court in  San Francisco .  Freescale raised $783 million in an initial public share
offering last month.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Semiconductor
Chips and Products Containing Same, 337-753, U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington). The civil case is Rambus Inc. v.
Freescale Semiconductor Inc., 10cv5445, U.S. District Court for
the Northern District of California (San Francisco).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  ISYS Technologies Sues Google Over Trademark for Chromium  ISYS Technologies Inc., which manages intellectual property
patents, said it sued  Google Inc. (GOOG)  claiming that the Web search
company’s Chrome operating system violates the trademarks for
ISYS’s Chromium Modular Computer.  ISYS said in a statement yesterday that it seeks to stop
Google and its marketing partners  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Best Buy Co.,
Samsung Electronics Co. and  Acer Inc. (2353)  from selling Chrome
products “on or about June 15.”  ISYS said it holds patents for the Xi3 Chromium computer
and filed a trademark registration for ChromiumPC with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office last June. Google, based in Mountain
View, California, has opposed the granting of the trademark,
according to Salt Lake City-based ISYS.  Google’s operating system is based on its Chrome Web
browser. The company is marketing a laptop, the Cr-48, which is
the first computer to run the Chrome operating system.  Aaron Zamost, a Google spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  New Mexico-Grown Chiles to Receive Limited Trademark Protection  Although both the state and the growers’ association lack
the money to register a trademark with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office,  New Mexico’s chile peppers  will receive a form
of intellectual property protection, the Silver City Sun-News
 reported .  State legislators enacted the New Mexico Chile Advertising
Act, which was signed into law in April, and goes into effect
July 1, according to the newspaper.  The new law will give inspectors from the state’s
agriculture department the power to audit the sales records of
companies that sell chile peppers and the ability to seek court
orders against companies that claim falsely they are selling
genuine New Mexico chiles, according to the Sun-News.  Guidelines implementing the new law will be developed after
a series of public hearings in which farmers, produce vendors
and restaurateurs will be heard, the newspaper reported.  Best Buy Gets Alleged Infringer’s Telephones Disconnected  Best Buy Co., the Richfield, Minnesota-based electronics
retailer, persuaded a federal judge to order the disconnection
of three telephone numbers belonging to a Michigan computer-
repair service.  U.S. District Judge Joan N. Ericksen told Andrew A. Clayton
of Oak Park, Michigan, he had to disconnect three telephone
numbers, and that he couldn’t use call forwarding or any
recorded messages to direct callers to those numbers elsewhere.  Best Buy sued Clayton for trademark infringement in federal
court in Minnesota in January 2010. The electronics company
objected to Clayton’s use of “Geek Squad” as part of the name
of his computer-repair service. The electronics company said it
has used “Geek Squad” in connection with its computer-repair
service since 1994, and owns several trademark registrations for
the name.  According to court papers, Best Buy said that beginning in
2008, it received complaints from customers who thought the
repairs performed by Clayton’s company were affiliated with Best
Buy. The company sent Clayton a series of cease-and-desist
letters beginning in 2009, it said in court papers.  In April 2010, Clayton agreed to quit using “Geek Squad”
in connection with his company, and not to contest the validity
of Best Buy’s Geek Squad marks, according to a court document.
He also agreed then to take down any listings that affiliated
his phone numbers with the term “Geek Squad” to change his
telephone numbers, and to pay $50,000 in damages.  Best Buy went back to court in February, claiming Clayton
hadn’t complied with his settlement agreement and was continuing
to infringe the marks. Judge Ericksen’s order came in response
to that request.  The case is BBY Solutions Inc., v. Andrew A. Clayton, 0:10-
cv-00062-JNE-FLN, U.s. District Court, District of Minnesota
(Minneaplolis).  NHL Falcons May Become ‘Whiteout” When Team Moves to Winnipeg  When the Atlanta Thrashers National Hockey League team
relocates to Winnipeg, Manitoba, recent Canadian trademark
applications indicate the team may be renamed the “Whiteout,”
the Winnipeg Sun  reported  June 5.  The Canadian Intellectual Property Office received a
request to register the term from the company that is being used
by True North Sports and Entertainment to buy the team,
according to the Sun.  The Sun also noted that one of the Internet domain-name
registration sites has registered “winnipegwhitehout.ca.  During the 1972-1996 seasons when Winnipeg had the Jets
hockey team, fans who dressed all in white for playoff games
referred to themselves as the “Whiteout,” the Sun reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  South African Musicians Seek Changes in Nation’s Copyright Law  Members of the Performers Organization of  South Africa  are
seeking changes in that nation’s copyright law to make it easier
for them to collect royalties, the Mail & Guardian  reported .  The performers gave a petition to the Ministry of Trade and
Industry yesterday they said would close loopholes in existing
legislation, according to the Mail & Guardian.  They claim they are losing about 100 million South African
rand ($14.8 million) they should receive when their songs are
played in public places, performed on radio or television, or
downloaded to electronic devices, the Mail & Guardian reported.  In 2010, South Africa’s Department of Trade and Industry
set up a commission to investigate whether royalties due
performing artists were being withheld, according to the news
website.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Maria Pallante Named to Top Post at U.S. Copyright Office  Maria Pallante was named register of copyrights and
director of the U.S. Copyright Office effective June 1,
according to a  statement  from the U.S. Library of Congress.  Pallante, the 12th to hold this post, has served as acting
director since the December retirement of her predecessor
Marybeth Peters.  She has served as executive director of the National
Writers Union and as assistant director of the Authors Guild,
and was an associated counsel at Lightman, Trister, Singer &
Ross, a Washington-based law firm and literary agency now known
as  Trister, Ross, Schadler & Gold PC .  Pallante has also worked as IP counsel and director of the
licensing group for the Guggenheim Museums, and has held posts
within the Copyright Office since 1997. After she graduated from
law school, she served as an administrative law clerk in the
appellate division of the U.S. Labor Department.  She has an undergraduate degree in history from
Misericordia University and a law degree from George Washington
University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 