-- 
Rothschild Gems, Frost’s Wine, Michelangelo Boost Sales

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-06-08T17:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/rothschild-gems-david-frost-wine-8-million-michelangelo-boost-auctions.html
Jewels that once belonged to the
richest woman in  England  sold for $2.9 million at auction today
as collectors buy gems with historical value.  A pearl-and-diamond tiara worn by Rothschild heiress
Hannah, Countess of Rosebery, sold for 1.2 million pounds with
fees. It was estimated at as much as 1.5 million pounds at
hammer prices. Her bracelet and brooch sold for 577,250 pounds,
beating an estimate of 400,000 pounds at Christie’s
International in London.  Sellers of diamonds are offering them at auction again as
the stones fetch higher prices than those achieved before the
2008 financial crisis.  “The Rothschild connection adds to the value,” Duncan Semmens, a director at the London-based jeweler  Hancocks , said
in an interview before the sale. “Buyers at the top end of the
market want quality pieces with a history that can be traced.”  The Rosebery pieces have been in an unidentified private
collection for more than 130 years. The Countess (1851-1890) was
the granddaughter of Nathan Mayer Rothschild, the founder of the
English branch of the banking business. The Christie’s sale
totaled 7.5 million pounds from 286 lots, 74 percent of which
were successful.  Bidding was selective for modern jewelry with unidentified
provenances at a Phillips de Pury & Co. sale last night. The
auction raised 1.6 million pounds with fees against an upper
estimate of 12.2 million pounds with 32 percent of the 370 lots
finding buyers.  The auction coincides with a week of Russian-art sales in
 London  -- Phillips was acquired by the Moscow-based luxury
retail company Mercury Group in 2008.  Claridge’s Shop  It was the first of two events that Phillips plans to hold
each year at  Claridge’s , a five-star hotel in London’s Mayfair.  “It is the first jewels sale after several years in London
and we are very pleased with the set-up and structure at
Claridge’s, which we aim to build on as we knew the return to
the jewels market would take time to develop,” Giulia
Constantini, Phillips’s head of communications, said in an e-
mail after the event.  The New York- and London-based auction house has leased a
750-square-foot (69 square meter) retail space behind a shop
front by the Art Deco hotel’s Brook Street entrance.  Finn Schouenborg Dombernowsky, Phillips’s European managing
director, wouldn’t specify the lease’s length or cost. The space
will alternate between auction previews and selling displays of
contemporary design.  Phillips opened its European headquarters in a former Post
Office sorting station in Howick Place, Victoria, in 2008. The
location, in an enclave south of St. James’s Park, has proved a
taxi ride too far for some clients, said dealers.  Frost’s Wine  A bottle of Chateau Lafite dating from the year that
 Abraham Lincoln  was assassinated is among the wines that
television interviewer  David Frost  is selling tomorrow.  The 1865 Lafite is one of more than 300 bottles from the
cellar of Frost’s house in Chelsea, west London. The 81-lot
entry may raise as much as 120,000 pounds,  Christie’s  said.  Lafite has become the must-have Bordeaux for Chinese wine
buyers. In October, three bottles of the 1869 vintage sourced
from the chateau each made HK$1.8 million ($230,000) in  Hong
Kong , auction records for single bottles of wine. Frost’s 1865
vintage is estimated at 3,000 pounds to 5,000 pounds.  “These bottles have been lovingly collected by an
enthusiast of older wines,” Christie’s specialist Carolyn
Holmes said. “They’re very dusty and the labels aren’t great,
though the levels are good.”  The 1865 Lafite, one of the chateau’s more highly rated
19th-century vintages, was tasted in magnum in 2002 by Master of
Wine Nick Bulleid, who said it was perfectly  preserved .  Frost is also selling bottles of Chateau Mouton-Rothschild
1853 -- the first vintage -- and Chateau Margaux 1870, estimated
respectively at 500 pounds to 700 pounds and 3,000 pounds to
5,000 pounds.  Michelangelo Fresco  Drawings for a fresco that Michelangelo was to paint in a
head-to-head competition with  Leonardo da Vinci  may fetch as
much as 5 million pounds at Christie’s London on July 5.  The double-sided sheet of black chalk studies of male nudes
probably dates from 1504 when Michelangelo was working on “The
Battle of Cascina,” commissioned for a wall opposite Leonardo’s
“Battle of Anghiari” in the Palazzo della Signoria, Florence.
The fresco commemorating a Florentine victory over Pisan troops
in 1364 went unfinished when Michelangelo was called to  Rome  by
Pope Julius II in 1505. Neither painting survives.  Private Collection  The sheet is the last of 24 surviving preparatory studies
for the fresco that remains in private hands and has been in the
same private collection for more than 30 years, said Christie’s.  Owners of trophy-name Old Master drawings have been
encouraged after a series of record prices, such as the 29.2
million pounds ($47.6 million) paid for Raphael’s black chalk
“Head of a Muse” at Christie’s in December 2009.  The record auction price for a Michelangelo drawing is the
8.1 million pounds paid for a pen-and-ink study of “The Risen
Christ” at Christie’s in July 2000. The successful bidder on
that Michelangelo and Raphael’s “Muse” was the New York
collector  Leon Black , said dealers.  “It’s an interesting drawing,” London-based dealer Jean- Luc Baroni, who underbid the record-breaking Raphael, said of
the work for sale in July. “Still, it doesn’t have the
intensity of some the artist’s other studies.”  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 