-- 
Trucks in Europe Will Face EU Toll Charges for Air Pollution, Noise

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-07T13:32:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/trucks-in-europe-will-face-eu-toll-charges-for-air-pollution-noise.html
The European Union decided to let
governments charge trucks for air pollution and noise, a step
that may shift some cargo from roads to railways.  The European Parliament approved a law allowing
environmental costs to be included in truck tolls, which may
rise 12 percent to 27 percent as a result. Current EU rules
prohibit environmental surcharges on the fleets of companies
such as  Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  except in mountain regions such as the
Alps to avoid fragmenting the European market.  “Finally ‘the polluter pays’ principle is introduced in
road transport,” said  Said El Khadraoui , a Belgian member who
steered the legislation through the 27-nation EU assembly today
in Strasbourg,  France . “It is a small revolution.” EU
governments have signaled their support for the law, making
their final approval a formality in the coming weeks.  The EU aims to reduce harmful emissions and costly delays
on its highways. Road transport is responsible for 75 percent of
nitrous-oxide discharges from transport and the cost of traffic
jams amounts to about 1.1 percent of the EU economy, according
to the European Commission. Trucks create about a quarter of
these effects, says the commission, which proposed the
legislation in July 2008.  The law establishes a framework for EU nations to calculate
and vary truck tolls, which are now based on infrastructure
costs, according to broader environmental effects.  Toll Costs  The legislation may increase truck tolls in  Europe  by 3
euro cents ($0.04) to 4 cents per vehicle per kilometer (0.6
mile) on average from a current level ranging from 15 cents to
25 cents, according to the commission, the EU’s regulatory arm.  Negotiations in the past three years pitted peripheral
countries including Ireland and  Spain  against transit ones such
as France. The peripheral nations had expressed concerns about
the impact of new charges on trucking companies, especially
during the 2009 recession.  The final agreement scales back the initial demands of the
commission and the EU Parliament, which had wanted to allow the
environmental surcharges to cover congestion as well as noise
and pollution. Instead of this element, the law will let nations
vary tolls according to traffic flows. The highest permissible
peak rate will be 175 percent of the average during a maximum
five hours a day.  Less Stringent  The final deal also scales back the commission’s original
plan for the new legislation to cover all roads, applying it to
30,000 kilometers of highways. The current EU rules apply to
15,000 kilometers of  primary European networks .  In addition, the accord exempts the existing cleanest
trucks from the air-pollution component of the environmental
tolls until the end of 2013 and the next generation of low-
polluting vehicles, due to be on the market in 2014, until the
end of 2017.  “It was a difficult compromise,” said Eniko Gyori, the
European affairs minister of  Hungary , which currently holds the
EU’s rotating presidency. “This will bring about less pollution
and more balanced traffic on our roads.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  