-- 
Russia RTS Futures Fall as Bernanke Says Nothing of New Stimulus

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-06-07T21:22:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/russia-rts-futures-fall-as-bernanke-says-nothing-of-new-stimulus.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
declined, signaling shares in Moscow may fall today, after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. economic
recovery has been “frustratingly slow.”  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
sank 0.2 percent yesterday, erasing a gain of as much as 0.5
percent in earlier trading. Contracts on OAO Rosneft, Russia’s
top oil producer, were little changed, while those on OAO
Lukoil, the second-biggest, dropped 0.6 percent. Contracts on
OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest gas producer, fell 0.1 percent.  “The futures were pressured by Bernanke’s comments, which
made no reference to possible further monetary easing,” Yan Gloukhovski, a trader at Alforma Capital Markets, the New York
branch of Russia’s Alfa Bank, said via e-mail. “A string of
recent weak economic reports had the market hoping for signs of
extension of the quantitative easing program.”  U.S. stocks erased gains as Bernanke said the economic
recovery has been “uneven” and “frustratingly slow,” while
giving no indication the central bank plans a new round of asset
purchases known as quantitative easing. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index fell 0.1 percent in  New York  yesterday, after gaining
as much as 0.8 percent earlier in the day.  Russia’s Micex Index rose 1.8 percent yesterday, the most
since May 27. Emerging-market stocks rose, pushing the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index higher for the first time in five
sessions as it increased 0.3 percent.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, also produces
metals including steel, copper, nickel, palladium and aluminum.
Oil and natural gas make up a quarter of its economic output.
Some investors buy commodities traded in U.S. dollars to protect
value when the greenback weakens.  Commodities Prices  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
rose 0.3 percent before Bernanke’s statement yesterday. Crude
oil for July delivery rose 0.1 percent to settle at $99.09 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. Prices are
39 percent higher than a year ago.  The U.S. Energy Department  boosted its global crude oil
demand forecast for 2011 amid speculation that an increase in
OPEC production quotas will reduce spare capacity and cause
tight supplies when demand rebounds.  Global oil consumption for this year will be 88.43 million
barrels a day, up from the 88.08 million estimated last month,
according to the department’s monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook.
Demand will be 2 percent higher than last year’s average of
86.73 million. It will climb to 90.02 million in 2012, compared
with the May forecast of 89.66 million.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rose 2.6 percent yesterday. Lukoil’s
American depositary receipts rose 2.8 percent.  Gazprom’s ADRs
rose 6.3 percent.  The dollar-denominated RTS Index rose 2.1 percent to
1,904.22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  