-- 
Samsung Electronics Accused of LCD Price Conspiracy in BrandsMart USA Suit

-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-06-07T00:50:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/samsung-electronics-accused-of-lcd-price-conspiracy-in-brandsmart-usa-suit.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
largest maker of televisions and flat-screen panels, was accused
in a lawsuit filed by electronics retailer BrandsMart USA Inc.
of conspiring to artificially inflate the prices of liquid-
crystal displays.  The companies formed an “international cartel” to
restrict production of LCD panels used in televisions, mobile
phones and computer monitors from 1996 to 2006, according to the
complaint by Interbond Corporation of America, which does
business as BrandsMart USA.  “The conspiracy affected billions of dollars of commerce
throughout the  United States ,” Interbond said in the complaint
filed June 3 in federal court in  Fort Lauderdale , Florida.  Fifteen companies, plus units of some of them, are named as
defendants in the lawsuit by Hollywood, Florida-based Interbond.  At least 22 display-industry executives have been
criminally charged in a U.S. probe into LCD price fixing. Eight
companies have also been charged in the investigation which has
netted more than $890 million in criminal fines, according to
the  Justice Department .  Adam Yates, a U.S. spokesman for Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The LCD manufacturers held what they called “crystal
meetings” between high- and mid-level executives monthly and
sometimes quarterly in which they would agree to price and
supply controls, according to Interbond’s complaint. The
Japanese companies initiated the meetings and then brought the
South Korean and Taiwanese producers into the conspiracy when
they entered the market, Interbond said.  Brandsmart operates 11 electronics warehouse-style discount
stores in  Florida  and  Georgia .  The case is Interbond Corporation of America v. AU
Optronics Corp., 11-cv-61264, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Florida (Ft. Lauderdale).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, at   susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  