-- 
Saving the Euro or the Next Election Is Merkel’s Dilemma: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-07T18:50:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/saving-the-euro-or-the-next-election-in-germany-is-merkel-s-dilemma-view.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  faces
a big choice in deciding how to handle the European debt crisis:
Do what is politically expedient, or do what is best for her
country, the European Union and the global economy.  Events across the Atlantic are overshadowing the pomp and
ceremony of Merkel’s visit to the U.S. this week. If European
officials don’t come up with a credible plan to contain the
financial troubles in  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal , the U.S.
recovery could be among the casualties.  As leader of the euro area’s largest and wealthiest member
state, Merkel has the power to stem the crisis. Given the
politics in  Germany , though, she has little incentive to take
the bold moves needed.  Life is good for Germans at the moment. The country’s
exports are booming, thanks in part to the crisis-weakened euro,
and in part to the concessions German workers have made in
recent years. Unemployment is falling, the economy is growing
and business confidence is near a 20-year high. The benchmark
DAX stock index has gained 21 percent in the last 12 months.
Such strong performance tends to dull any sense of urgency.  With Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union party struggling
to regain momentum ahead of federal elections in 2013, asking
Germans to bail out the euro area’s more profligate members
would be politically fraught. On the other hand, a debt
restructuring that involves big losses for German banks -- with
$22.7 billion in loans outstanding, they are the Greek
government’s single biggest lender -- might trigger another
financial crisis.  Vienna Initiative  Expediency would suggest Merkel find a middle way. She
could, for example, endorse a version of the Vienna Initiative,
in which private creditors agree to purchase new Greek bonds
when existing ones mature. Used in Eastern Europe in 2009, the
approach has drawn the support of European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and the European Union’s economic
and monetary affairs commissioner, Olli Rehn.  The proposal would give Greece more time to get its debt
burden on a sustainable trajectory, and banks more time to
prepare for a restructuring that may prove inevitable. To give
it teeth, Merkel could propose that the ECB automatically stop
accepting as collateral the bonds of Greece, Portugal or any
other member state that failed to meet specific fiscal targets
within three years.  Such a deal, however, is unlikely to calm markets.
Investors would still worry about the impact on banks if Greece
failed to fulfill its promises. More importantly, Merkel would
be wasting an opportunity to fix the flaws in the euro area that
the crisis exposed.  Fiscal Union  Without some sort of fiscal union in which  tax revenue  can
flow across borders, the common currency puts too much of a
burden on economies that fall out of sync. The massive public
and private debts of Greece and Portugal arose in part as a
result of large trade deficits -- deficits that exchange-rate
adjustments could have alleviated if they had their own
currencies. Now, they must undertake the difficult task of
restoring competitiveness by lowering wages, even as they cut
 government spending  and struggle with stagnating or shrinking
economies.  In what could be viewed as the world’s largest currency
union, the U.S., automatic federal  transfers  such as
 unemployment insurance  and tax credits for low-wage earners help
the states get through hard times. A supra-national finance
ministry could make similar fiscal transfers in  Europe , helping
to ease the cyclical part of the pain as countries undertake
structural reforms.  Fiscal Transfers  Fiscal transfers in Europe might not be as expensive as
they seem. In the U.S., money from  Washington  generally covers
about 30 percent of states’ income shortfalls. Using that rule-
of-thumb, a similar fiscal cushion for Greece would cost about
7.5 billion euros, or about $11 billion, in 2011. That’s 0.3
percent of Germany’s projected economic output and less than 0.1
percent of the entire  euro zone ’s.  Tellingly, Trichet, one of the few officials involved who
doesn’t have to worry about re-election, suggested last week
that the euro area consider creating a unified  finance ministry ,
a precursor to a fiscal union.  Without a fiscal union, the euro area will see more crises
and could ultimately fail as a currency union. That would be a
loss for all its members, Germany included. Hence, as President
Barack Obama hosts Merkel at tonight’s state dinner, he might
want to pose a question: How do you want to be remembered, as
the politician who saved her party’s chances in the 2013
elections, or as the politician who saved the euro?  For more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 