-- 
HSBC Agrees to Pay $62.5 Million to Settle U.S. Class-Action Madoff Suit

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-07T14:17:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/hsbc-agrees-to-pay-62-5-million-to-settle-u-s-class-action-madoff-suit.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest
bank, agreed to pay $62.5 million to settle a group lawsuit in
New York, filed by investors in a fund that lost money in
Bernard Madoff’s fraud while the bank acted as custodian.  The accord, which needs court approval, applies to a class-
action case against several HSBC units and other defendants by
investors in the Ireland-based Thema International Fund Plc,
whose assets were invested with Bernard L. Madoff Securities
LLC, HSBC said in a statement today.  The settlement “shall in no way be construed” as an
admission of fault, HSBC said in the statement. The London-based
bank, which faces other Madoff-related lawsuits in  Germany ,
Luxembourg and other countries, has “good defenses” against
them, it said.  Thema Fund, a so-called Madoff feeder fund, was controlled
by Bank Medici AG, according to a statement by the fund’s law
firm, Chapin Fitzgerald Sullivan & Bottini LLP. Bank Medici with
its founder Sonja Kohn is part of a $59 billion suit by the
trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm.  HSBC units acted as custodian for Thema and other funds
that funneled money to Madoff.  Irving Picard , the trustee
liquidating New York-based Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, in December sued HSBC and a dozen feeder funds
for $9 billion in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan , saying
they should have known of the fraud.  HSBC Losses  HSBC didn’t know of the fraud and lost $1 billion of its
own money investing in funds that in turn put money with Madoff,
the bank said last month in court papers seeking dismissal of
Picard’s lawsuit.  The bank was warned twice by auditors that entrusting as
much as $8 billion in client funds to Madoff opened it up to
“fraud and operational risks,” according to KPMG LLP reports
obtained in March by Bloomberg News. The investors claim HSBC
failed to act on the warnings.  According to HSBC’s May filing, Picard, who sued HSBC
saying he was doing so on behalf of Madoff investors, is
competing with the feeder funds and investors that have sued
HSBC, and intends to claim any money they recover from the U.K.
bank to give it to other investors.  “He is attempting to steal their claims, along with the
funds’ claims, and planning to provide the fruits of any
recoveries to other parties,” on the principle of “robbing
Peter to pay Paul,” HSBC said as it asked a judge to dismiss
Picard’s suit.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, declined at the time to
comment.  Alpha Suit  On May 27, Alpha Prime Fund Ltd. and Senator Fund SPC, two
funds sued along with HSBC by the Madoff firm’s trustee, filed
so-called cross claims against HSBC  to try to recoup “hundreds
of millions of dollars” in losses they incurred in the fraud.  HSBC in December was sued by a group of 650 mainly private
German investors in Luxembourg seeking compensation for losses
they suffered through Herald (Lux) US Absolute Return Fund,
which placed assets with Madoff. That suit seeks about 25
million euros ($36.6 million) in damages.  Thema and another fund, AA (Alternative Advantage) Plc,
sued HSBC in January 2009 in Dublin’s  High Court .  HSBC is facing about 50 investor complaints in Ireland for
allegedly failing in its duties as custodian for Thema, a
European-Union regulated fund, and AA (Alternative Advantage)
Plc. Both funds suspended redemptions after Madoff’s fraud was
uncovered. Custodians are responsible for oversight of funds,
and manage deposits and payments to investors.  Dublin Court  A court in Dublin in January ordered HSBC to disclose a
report on the status of the Thema fund without ruling on whether
HSBC had made the necessary data available. Almost all of the
funds invested in Thema “are currently lost, apparently as a
result of the fallout from the collapse of the Madoff empire,”
Judge Frank Clarke said in the Jan. 10 order in a case filed by
French investor Aforge Finance SAS, which lost about 54 million
euros in Thema.  HSBC’s Luxembourg unit was also custodian for the Herald
(Lux) fund, which had assets of $225.7 million as of Oct. 31,
2008, according to Bloomberg data. The fund was forced to
dissolve because of Madoff-related losses.  The Luxembourg-based liquidators of the Herald Lux fund are
suing HSBC for the return of lost assets. Luxembourg’s financial
market regulator in November 2009 ordered HSBC Securities
Services in Luxembourg to review its internal rules related to
its role as custodian bank of local mutual funds.  Luxembourg Liquidators  In Luxembourg, the liquidators may be the only possibility
for Herald (Lux) investors to recoup some of their lost money
after a March 4 ruling by a commercial court that liquidators
alone can recover capital assets.  Documents from Madoff’s company show the value of HSBC-
serviced funds as of Nov. 30, 2008, was about $8.4 billion,
including fake profit from Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, according to
HSBC’s statement. The funds’ actual transfers to Madoff’s firm
minus their actual withdrawals during the period HSBC acted as
custodian, totaled about $4.3 billion, it said.  The settlement provides for a $10 million litigation fund
that will allow investors to try to recover money from
defendants that haven’t settled, said Thema Fund’s law firm in
the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net 
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  