-- 
Scene Last Night: Yankees’ Teixeira, Gary Cohn, Howard Lutnick

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-06-07T16:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/scene-last-night-mark-teixeira-gary-cohn-stuart-fraser-howard-lutnick.html
New York Yankees first baseman  Mark Teixeira  dined on Cipriani 42nd Street beef and potatoes last
night with  Gary Cohn , the president of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
Their wives joined them and some 800 others at Harlem RBI’s
20th-anniversary benefit.  The road between  Wall Street  and baseball seems pretty busy
these days. As Greenlight Capital Inc. President  David Einhorn 
comes closer to minority ownership of the Mets, the handsome
home-run hitter Teixeira has become a lead fundraiser for  Harlem
RBI , attracting donations from Cohn and other financiers.  “Fundraising in New York is a lot of fun,” Teixeira, in a
suit and blue-and-purple tie, said. “I love meeting people and
sharing a good idea.”  Cohn said his involvement is “for the kids” after buying
a base used in the  World Series  at the event’s silent auction.
“It’s going in my office,” Cohn said.  Harlem RBI uses baseball and softball as the core of a
college-preparation program that includes after-school and
summer academic enrichment. This year’s Harlem RBI seniors had a
100 percent acceptance rate to colleges.  Teixeira, a board member of the nonprofit, has helped the
organization raise $10 million as part of its $20 million
capital campaign, including his own $1 million donation. Last
night’s event raised $2.3 million, said Harlem RBI’s executive
director, Richard
Berlin.  The funds will go toward building a home for a charter
school, a playground and offices for the nonprofit at 104th
Street between Second and Third avenues in East Harlem. The site
is near Harlem RBI’s “Field of Dreams” softball field.  City Deadline  Harlem RBI has until the end of the year to raise another
$10 million, a deadline set by the  New York  City Department of
Education, which has pledged $32.5 million to the project.  The organization has long enjoyed support from the
financial community. Harlem RBI board members include Glenview
Capital Management’s managing director Kirk McKeown; Todd Builione, president of Highbridge Capital Management LLC; Peter Daneker of Blue Ridge Capital LLC; and Don Truesdale, a managing
director of Goldman Sachs.  Cantor Fitzgerald  & Co. is the largest corporate
contributor. Its vice chairman, Stuart Fraser, has been involved
with the organization for 15 years.  Howard Lutnick , Cantor
Fitzgerald’s chairman, president and chief executive officer,
was an honoree last night, along with Teixeira.  Teixeira signed baseballs, posed for photographs and helped
drive up bids for a vacation package at an Inspirato resort.  ‘Two Home Runs’  “My wife and I went to Inspirato Pelican Hill last weekend
and I came back so relaxed I hit two home runs,” he said,
referring to the Newport Coast,  California , resort.  Asked if his time rubbing shoulders with investment bankers
has given him ideas for a future career, Teixeira noted that he
has six more years on his Yankees contract, but “there’s no
doubt this experience has gotten the wheels turning.”  He’s thinking private equity as opposed to investing, he
said. “I wouldn’t trust myself investing my own money.”  As for what motivates him in his work with Harlem RBI: “At
the end of the day, we’re all businessmen, and we all have a
responsibility to help our community.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 