-- 
Germany Seeks Longer Maturities for Greek Bonds, Setting Up Clash With ECB

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-06-08T07:14:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/schaeuble-seeks-seven-year-maturity-extension-for-holders-of-greek-bonds.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said bondholders must contribute a “substantial”
share of a second aid package for  Greece , proposing a swap that
credit-rating companies may term a default.  Schaeuble told European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and fellow euro finance ministers in a June 6 letter
that maturities on Greek bonds should be extended seven years to
give the debt-wracked nation time to overhaul its economy.  Any agreement on aid at a ministers’ meeting on June 20
“has to include a clear mandate -- given to Greece possibly
together with the IMF -- to initiate the process of involving
holders of Greek bonds,” Schaeuble wrote in the letter.  The German position clashes with the stance of European
Commission officials and the ECB, which oppose anything beyond a
voluntary rollover of debt as they struggle to avert the euro
area’s first sovereign default. A swap offering investors terms
that are “worse” than those of existing securities would
constitute a coercive or distressed exchange, and be considered
a default,  Fitch Ratings  said this week.  “Either Schaeuble softens his calls or the ECB makes
further concessions,” said Christopher Rieger, head of fixed-
income strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  Greek 10-year bonds yield almost 16 percent and the country
is the most expensive in the world to insure against default, at
about 1,400 basis points, according to CMA prices.  ‘Unorderly Default’  With a return to capital markets in 2012 “more than
unrealistic,” Greece needs more aid to avert “the real risk of
the first unorderly default within the euro zone,” Schaeuble
wrote.  While the size of the package can’t be assessed until the
so-called troika of officials from the  International Monetary
Fund , ECB and European Commission give a progress report on
Greece, it is likely to be “substantial” and must “involve a
fair burden sharing between taxpayers and private investors,”
Schaeuble said.  “This process has to lead to a quantified and substantial
contribution of bondholders to the support effort, beyond a pure
Vienna Initiative approach,” whereby western banks active in
eastern  Europe  in 2009 during the financial crisis were
encouraged to roll over funding to subsidiaries and inject fresh
capital if needed.  “Such a result can best be reached through a bond swap
leading to a prolongation of the outstanding Greek sovereign
bonds by seven years, at the same time giving Greece the
necessary time to fully implement the necessary reforms and
regain market confidence,” Schaeuble said.  In  Athens , Prime Minister  George Papandreou , who will
convene his Cabinet tomorrow, is seeking to damp mounting
protests and dissent within his ruling Socialist party to
additional deficit cuts and asset sales to whittle down Europe’s
biggest debt load.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Crawford in Berlin at  acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  