-- 
Concealing a Data Breach Would Be a Crime Under Leahy Bill

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-06-07T22:29:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/sen-leahy-unveils-data-breach-bill-seeking-enhanced-protections.html
Companies would be required to
disclose cyber attacks that jeopardize consumers’ personal
information and concealing a data breach would be made a crime
under Senate legislation aimed at enhancing privacy protections.  The bill unveiled today by Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont
Democrat, would set a national standard for notifying consumers
that replaces data-breach reporting requirements in 47 states.
Leahy, who chairs the Senate Judiciary Committee, cited recent
cyber attacks at companies including  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  as he introduced the measure.  “The many recent and troubling data breaches in the
private sector and in our government are clear evidence that
developing a comprehensive national strategy to protect data
privacy and security is one of the most challenging and
important issues facing our country,” Leahy said in a
 statement .  Under the measure, anyone who “intentionally or
willfully” conceals a data breach would be subject to criminal
penalties including a fine or up to five years in prison,
according to a fact sheet released with the bill.  The bill, known as the Personal Data Privacy and Security
Act of 2011, is co-sponsored by three other Democratic senators:
 Charles Schumer  of  New York , Ben Cardin of  Maryland , and Al Franken of  Minnesota . Leahy introduced similar cybersecurity
measures in 2005, 2007 and 2009 that failed to advance in the
Senate.  ‘Compliance Burdens’  The measure parallels the cybersecurity proposal issued by
the Obama administration on May 12. Like the administration’s
plan, the Senate bill introduced today calls for creating a
uniform federal law for informing consumers about data breaches,
a provision welcomed by the technology industry.  The proliferation of state laws has caused “confusion for
consumers and unnecessary compliance burdens for companies,”
Robert Holleyman, president of the  Business Software Alliance ,
said a statement. The group represents software makers including
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Holleyman urged Congress to pass
“a single, national standard to replace the unwieldy state
patchwork we have today.”  The security breaches at Sony and Lockheed Martin have
sharpened U.S. government scrutiny of how businesses safeguard
consumer data and notify the public about cyber attacks. Sony
has been criticized by U.S. lawmakers for taking six days to
warn customers about the breach.  The Leahy measure does not give a specific timeframe for
making such reports and says that companies should disclose data
breaches “without unreasonable delay.” Businesses would be
exempt from public disclosure if they determine that no consumer
data were compromised and share that information with the U.S.
Secret Service.  Government Contractors  The legislation also requires businesses to create a
privacy and security program to protect “sensitive” data.
Federal agencies would be required to evaluate the data security
practices of government contractors and assess privacy
provisions of third-party data services under the bill.  Lockheed Martin, the world’s largest defense contractor,
was hit by a cyber attack on May 21 that the company later said
resulted from a March data theft at RSA, a provider of security
tokens. RSA’s parent company, EMC Corp., offered today to swap
the SecurID tokens that RSA provides to defense contractors and
government agencies.  The Leahy bill addresses “the growing need to establish
privacy protections when government agencies transfer personal
data to private contractors,”  Marc Rotenberg , executive
director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Data Brokers  The bill would allow consumers to obtain reports from data
brokers such as  Acxiom Corp. (ACXM)  and  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL) ’s Lexis Nexis
unit about the personal information that has been collected on
them. Consumers would be allowed to dispute and correct any
inaccuracies in the digital records. Data brokers that fail to
follow the rules would be subject to fines of up to $250,000 per
violation.  House lawmakers including Representative Mary Bono Mack, a
California Republican who chairs a subcommittee on commerce,
manufacturing and trade, also are working on legislation aimed
at protecting consumer data. Bono Mack also has called for a
nationwide data-breach reporting standard.  “Consumers have a right to know when their personal
information has been compromised, and companies have an
overriding responsibility to promptly alert them,” Bono Mack
said at a June 2 hearing on data security.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  