-- 
U.S. Senators Introduce 6-Month Delay of Debit ‘Swipe’ Rules

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 
2011-06-07T21:25:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/senators-said-to-weigh-6-month-delay-of-debit-swipe-fee-rules.html
A Federal Reserve rule capping debit-
card “swipe” fees set by  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  would
be delayed at least six months under a plan introduced in the
U.S. Senate.  Senators began considering language today from Senators Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat, and  Bob Corker , a Tennessee
Republican, that would let federal regulators study the issue
before determining whether to write new rules. The caps,
mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, are set to take effect July 21.  The Fed would get an additional six months if the study
shows the current  proposal  would hurt consumers or fail to
protect banks and credit unions with less than $10 billion in
assets. In December, the central bank proposed capping the swipe
fees, or  interchange , at 12 cents a transaction, replacing a
formula that averages 1.14 percent of the purchase price.  “We have people on both sides of the aisle that realize
this policy is detrimental,” Corker said on the Senate floor.  Visa, the world’s biggest bank-card network, advanced the
most since March, climbing 2.1 percent to $79.82 at 4:15 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. San Francisco-based
Visa and No. 2 network MasterCard of Purchase, New York, had
dropped more than 10 percent after the Fed proposed the caps in
December amid investor concern that the rules might hurt their
business model.  ‘New Environment’  “The delay would give the networks more time to revamp
their products and pricing to best compete in the new
environment,”  Moshe Orenbuch , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG, wrote today in a note to clients.  MasterCard and Visa set interchange fees and pass the money
to card-issuing banks. The caps would trim revenue by about $12
billion a year at the biggest U.S. lenders, including  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “Since we cannot fully understand how the market will
operate until interchange regulations are enacted, we direct the
Fed to report the actual impact of the market on small issuers a
year after their rules are implemented,” Tester said.  The new proposal calls for the Fed, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and
 National Credit Union Administration  to conduct a study that
considers all fixed and incremental costs of debit-card
transactions. If at least two study participants determine that
the rules don’t accurately reflect those costs or properly
exempt smaller banks and credit unions, the Fed would be
required to rewrite them.  David Skidmore , a Fed spokesman, didn’t return phone and e-
mail messages.  Retailers Opposed  Groups representing the retail industry opposed the plan.  “This amendment, just like all the others written and
circulated with the support of Visa, MasterCard and the big
banks, is going nowhere,” said Brian Dodge, spokesman for the
Retail Industry Leaders Association, an Arlington, Virginia-
based trade group whose members include Minneapolis-based  Target
Corp. (TGT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  of Bentonville, Arkansas.  The new language would establish a process where the Fed
would review the exemption for the small banks and credit unions
every two years to gauge its effectiveness. If the smaller
institutions aren’t shielded from the rule, the Fed is required
to make recommendations for legislative changes from Congress.  60 Votes  Tester had already revised his measure in search of the 60
votes he likely would need for a postponement. In May, he
reduced the proposed delay to 15 months from two years. Senator
 Richard Durbin  of Illinois, who pushed to include the caps in
Dodd-Frank, has vowed to fight efforts to delay them.  “This so-called compromise is written by the banks, for
the banks, and it has no end date, there is no effective date as
to when the rule is issued,” Durbin, the Senate’s No. 2
Democrat, said yesterday in an interview. “There is a
guarantee, the way they put it together, that the biggest banks
on  Wall Street  are going to profit from this.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
today that while he remains opposed to the measure, he isn’t
pushing members of his party to stay on Durbin’s side.  “I’m not lobbying anyone on anything,” Reid said.  Democrats and Republicans who favor the amendment have been
pushing fellow lawmakers, including those who voted with Durbin
last year, to support Tester’s amendment.  Senators Kay Hagan of  North Carolina  and Michael Bennet of
Colorado, both Democrats who backed the original provision
in Dodd-Frank, contributed to the new language and support its
passage.  “I wanted to pull Democrats and Republicans together to
work on a moderate approach to solve this and have bipartisan
compromise that’s going to move this ball forward,” Hagan said
today in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at
   khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  