-- 
Serbia May Leave Benchmark Rate Unchanged to Lure Investors

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-06-07T13:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/serbia-may-leave-benchmark-rate-unchanged-to-lure-investors.html
Serbia ’s central bank may leave its
benchmark interest rate unchanged this week for a second month
to keep money flowing into  government bonds  that finance the
budget deficit.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije will leave its two-
week repurchase rate at 12.5 percent, the second-highest in
Europe, according to 15 of 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Three expect a quarter-point cut, three expect a half-point cut,
and one predicts a quarter-point increase. A decision is
expected at about noon in Belgrade at the June 9 meeting.  Serbia’s 4.5 percentage points of rate increases since
August drove the dinar to the world’s best performance this
year. The increased borrowing costs also help the government
finance its  budget deficit  and meet pledges to the  International
Monetary Fund , which is negotiating the country’s second loan
agreement in three years.  “The repo rate has become a factor that maintains the
investment climate and allows the government to borrow and
refinance its debt,” Djordje Djukic, a board member of AIK Banka
AD and a former central bank policy member, said by phone. “Any
interest rate cut would shatter investors.”  Dinar Gains  The dinar has gained 6.5 percent this year against the euro
and 16.5 percent against the dollar, making it the best-
performing currency in the world, Bloomberg data show. Demand
for debt of varying maturities has exceeded supply during 2011,
driving down yields across the curve.  An auction of 24-month bills today attracted demand of 7.8
billion dinars on supply of 5 billion dinars, with the yield on
the paper at 12.99 percent, results from the Serbian Debt
Management Agency showed.  The appreciation in the dinar came as the central bank
raised its benchmark interest rate to help curb inflation fueled
by rising food and fuel costs.  After the central bank tried to restrain dinar appreciation
by selling dinars in the market and prevent hurting economic
growth, the dinar has now become an “anchor” for the central
bank, Djukic said.  “Unlike earlier this year when the bank was running away
from a strong dinar, it is now accepting it,” Djukic said.  Debt Yields  Policy makers are likely to monitor the cost of  government
borrowing , already equivalent to its benchmark interest rate for
six-month Treasury bills, and leave the rate unchanged until
there is more evidence that yields on the government debt are
falling below the two-week repo rate, said Jasna Atanasijevic,
chief economist at the Belgrade-based unit of  Austria ’s Hypo-
Alpe-Adria Bank AG, in a phone interview.  The central bank is becoming “cautious about maintaining
carry-trade attractiveness as their year-end target is almost
definitely missed,” she said in a June 6 phone interview,
referring to the central bank’s failure to curb inflation
through higher  interest rates .  Analysts expect the central bank will begin cutting
interest rates in July to give the economy a lift. Economic
growth is expected to accelerate to 4.5 percent in 2012 from 3
percent in 2011, mainly led by Fiat SpA investment into a new
assembly plant.  ‘Pretty Damaging’  “Any further delay in cutting the benchmark rate is pretty
damaging,” said Dusko Vasiljevic, an analyst at the CEVES
economics institute in Belgrade, who expects a rate cut next
month. “This significant dinar appreciation must also affect
exports. Domestic demand is weak, economic recovery in  Europe  is
slow and with the strong dinar, exports will slow, so where will
the growth come from?”  Thirteen of 22 analysts expect policy makers to reduce
rates in July, with three forecasting a quarter-point cut, eight
expecting a half-point reduction and two expecting a greater cut
to less than 12 percent. Eight expect rates to be left
unchanged, while one predicts an increase to 12.75 percent.  Consumer prices grew an annual 14.7 percent in April, the
most in 37 months and more than double the limit of the central
bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range.  Inflation may peak in May or June and inflationary
pressures may subside during the summer in Serbia as a result of
base effects, the central bank said after its May rate-setting
meeting.  “The repo rate has no impact on inflation,” AIK’s Djukic
said. “Inflation will continue to be affected by fiscal policy,
independent of monetary policy measures, because Serbia has had
a problem with structural and cost inflation. Monetary policy
cannot resolve the problem of poor competitiveness and other
inefficiencies in companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  