-- 
Serbia’s Industrial Output May Rise 3.6% in First Seven Months

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-06-07T13:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/serbia-s-industrial-output-may-rise-3-6-in-first-seven-months.html
Serbian industrial production will
probably expand 3.6 percent from a year earlier in the first
seven months of the year as exports rise, according to the
Belgrade-based  Economics Institute .  Exports may jump 25 percent to 6.56 billion euros ($9.61
billion) and imports are forecast to rise 18.5 percent to 10.87
billion euros, the institute said today in its month monthly
report on  macroeconomic analysis and trends .  “We remain worried, however, by the seasonally adjusted
data for industrial output in March and April,” Vladimir Vuckovic, head of the Institute’s research team, said in
presenting the report. They declined 1 percent and 1.2 percent,
respectively, he said.  While Serbia’s economic growth accelerated in the first
quarter, economists said the figures were probably powered by
demand for commodities and structural changes were still needed.
Gross domestic product expanded 3 percent from a year earlier
during the period, compared with 1.7 percent in the fourth
quarter, the state statistics office said April 29.  Processing, “a pillar” of industrial production, shrank
as much as 1.5 percent in the seven-month period, and  food
processing  “really disappointed,” Vuckovic said. The categor
accounts for more than 80 percent of Serbian exports.  The year-over-year trade figures were boosted by the
comparison to last year, when Serbia was emerging from
recession, Vuckovic said.  “In the longer run, we wouldn’t be surprised to see a
growing trade gap,” he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  expects the Serbian economy
to grow 3 percent in 2011, compared with 1.8 percent last year.
It contracted 3.5 percent in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  