-- 
Shareholder Suits, EU Finance Ministry, EBA: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-06-07T11:48:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/shareholder-suits-eu-finance-ministry-world-bank-eba-report-compliance.html
The U.S. Supreme Court made it easier
for investors to press securities fraud suits, ruling for
shareholders who accuse  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  of misrepresenting its
financial condition while under Dick Cheney’s leadership.  The justices yesterday unanimously  said  the shareholders
can sue as a group without first establishing that they lost
money as a result of the alleged fraud.  The shareholders, led by the Erica P. John Fund, contend
that Halliburton from 1999 to 2001 falsified earnings reports,
played down estimated asbestos liability and overstated the
benefits of a merger. Cheney, later the U.S. vice president,
served as chairman and chief executive officer of the oilfield
services provider during part of the disputed period.  The high court case concerned the standard that applies at
the so-called class certification stage, not at final judgment.
The Supreme Court previously said that, to get class-action
status, shareholders must show they made investment decisions in
reliance on a company’s alleged misstatements. Shareholders can
meet that test by showing the company perpetrated a so-called
fraud on the market.  Chief Justice John Roberts yesterday said that requirement
doesn’t mean that investors seeking class-action status must
show that they lost money as a result of the alleged fraud.  Teresa Wong , a spokeswoman for Halliburton, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Erica P. John Fund v. Halliburton, 09-1403.  Compliance Policy  Barnier Calls European Finance Ministry Proposal ‘A Good Idea’  Michel Barnier, the European Union’s financial services
commissioner, said a proposal to create a European finance
ministry to help solve the euro region’s fiscal problems is a
“good idea.”  “I think it’s a good idea” in theory, Barnier said after
giving a speech in  Montreal  yesterday. He said the EU has
already taken a similar step by creating a single foreign policy
chief. There are possible ways “to do the same for finance,”
he said.  European Central Bank  President Jean-Claude Trichet said on
June 2 that governments should consider setting up a finance
ministry for the 17-nation euro region as the bloc struggles to
contain a region-wide sovereign-debt crisis.  World Bank  Eyes Network of CO2 Markets in Make-or-Break Decade  Emerging nations are growing increasingly interested in
using market-based mechanisms to fight  climate change  and may
become the “incubator” for a network of new emissions-trading
programs, according to the  World Bank .  As many as 20 countries worldwide are considering the
introduction of programs that would reduce greenhouse gases and
create tradable pollution permits, said Andrew Steer, World Bank
special envoy for climate change. The bank last week approved
the first grants to developing nations to help them analyze and
design emissions plans that could boost the $142 billion global
carbon market after it shrank for the first time in 2010.  The global value of the market for greenhouse-gas permits
and credits for cutting pollution fell to $142 billion last year
from $144 billion in 2009, snapping five years of growth amid a
lack of clarity about the future climate framework, a World Bank
report showed last week.  The idea of a carbon market “is catching on,” Steer said
in an interview on June 2 during the Carbon Expo conference in
Barcelona,  Spain .  China  is introducing a cap-and-trade system
over the next two years and the World Bank is providing support
to Chile, Colombia,  Costa Rica , Mexico, Indonesia, Thailand and
Turkey as they work toward “market-based instruments” that
help cut greenhouse gases, Steer said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  SEC Settles Fraud Suit with Longtime Madoff Employee Eric Lipkin  Eric Lipkin, a longtime employee of  Bernard Madoff , agreed
to pay fines and disgorge ill-gotten gains to resolve U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission claims that he helped the
imprisoned money manager and his firm deceive and defraud
investors and regulators. Lipkin neither admitted nor denied the
charges in settling the case.  The SEC announced the proposed settlement with Lipkin in a
statement yesterday.  Hypo Noe Says Charged 58 Million Euros by Austrian Watchdog FMA  Austria’s banking watchdog FMA yesterday ordered Hypo Noe
Gruppe Bank AG to pay a 58 million-euro ($85 million) fine over
an alleged breach of banking rules, according to a statement by
Hypo Noe.  The order claims Hypo Noe breached limits on how much money
it can lend to single customers with an 800 million-euro
investment in an affiliate, the bank said in the statement.  It added that it disagrees with the FMA and will challenge
the order in Austria’s highest court.  Courts  Ex-Credit Suisse Employees Face Trial in Korea, Times Says  Two former employees of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) ’s Hong Kong
branch face trial in  South Korea  on charges of unfair
profiteering from stock price manipulation, the  Korea Times 
reported yesterday.  The pair were charged with investing in struggling firms
between 2005 and 2006 to boost their stock prices and selling
borrowed shares from the companies at higher prices, the
newspaper said, citing the  Seoul Central District Prosecutors’
Office .  Three phone calls to the prosecutors’ office were
unanswered yesterday, a Korean national holiday. Uni Park, a
spokeswoman for Credit Suisse in Seoul, declined to comment.  Ex-IMF Chief Strauss-Kahn Pleads Not Guilty to Sex Assault  Former International Monetary Fund Managing Director
Dominique Strauss-Kahn pleaded not guilty three weeks after his
arrest to charges of sexually assaulting and attempting to rape
a Manhattan hotel maid.  After the hearing before  New York  State  Supreme Court 
Justice Michael Obus, Strauss-Kahn left the courthouse with his
wife, Anne Sinclair, as hotel workers shouted, “Shame on you.”  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was arrested May 14 and later indicted on
seven counts that included attempted rape, sexual abuse and
unlawful imprisonment. If convicted of the top charges, he faces
as long as 25 years in prison. He allegedly attacked a
housekeeper, a 32-year-old from Guinea, at the Midtown Manhattan
Sofitel on May 14.  “There was no element of forcible compulsion in this case
whatsoever,” Brafman told reporters outside the courthouse
after the arraignment. Obus scheduled the next hearing for July
18.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11, Supreme Court
of the State of New York, New York County (Manhattan).  For more of this story, click here.  HSBC Agrees to Pay $62.5 Million to End U.S. Madoff Civil Case  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank, agreed to pay
$62.5 million to settle a group lawsuit in New York filed by
investors in a fund that lost money in Bernard Madoff’s fraud.  The accord applies to a class-action case against several
HSBC companies and other defendants by investors in the Thema
International Fund Plc, an Ireland-based fund whose assets were
invested with Bernard L. Madoff Securities LLC, HSBC said in a
statement today.  The settlement “shall in no way be construed” as an
admission or fault, London-based HSBC said in the statement.  Irving H. Picard, the trustee liquidating Madoff’s company,
sued HSBC and a dozen feeder funds for $9 billion in December in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. HSBC units in Bermuda,
Luxembourg and Dublin acted as custodian for Thema and other
funds that funneled money to Madoff.  Interviews/Speeches  Geithner Urges Rules on Swaps to Avoid ‘Race to the Bottom’  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said he wants
global minimum standards on derivatives trading and urged
regulators to avoid a “race to the bottom” in which financial
risk moves to the least-supervised economies.  “We need global minimum standards for margins on uncleared
derivatives trades,” Geithner said yesterday in remarks
prepared for a speech in Atlanta. “Without international
consensus, the broader cause of central clearing will be
undermined. Risk in derivatives will become concentrated in
those jurisdictions with the least oversight. This is a recipe
for another crisis.”  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and
Securities and Exchange Commission are writing new regulations
required by the Dodd-Frank Act, which seeks to reduce risk and
boost transparency in the $601 trillion global swaps market.  “As we act to contain risk in the U.S., we want to
minimize the chances that it simply moves to other markets
around the world,” Geithner said in his remarks at the
International Monetary Conference. He pointed to the United
Kingdom’s “experiment in a strategy of ‘light touch’
regulation” to attract business to  London  as a “cautionary
note for other countries.”  Bafin’s Sanio, Bank of France’s Noyer Comment On Stress Tests  Germany’s top financial regulator lashed out at the
European Union’s bank stress tests, saying the standards adopted
by the agency carrying them out lack “legitimacy.”  The  European Banking Authority  used a definition of capital
that deviates from global rules “with consequences no-one can
gauge,” Bafin Chairman  Jochen Sanio , 64, said in the
introduction to the German regulator’s annual report yesterday.
The EBA lacks “clear, defined corporate-governance structures,
which alone could guarantee process legitimacy,” he said.  “This gives cause for concern in the future,” said Sanio.  The publication of the stress-test results may be delayed
until July, a  European Banking Authority  official said last
week. They had been scheduled to be released this month.  An EBA spokeswoman didn’t immediately respond to a phone
call seeking comment.  Separately, Bank of France Governor Christian Noyer said
the key aim of European bank stress tests is to ensure
governments don’t again become crippled by financial industry
debts.  “Obviously there is a circular causality between
government debt and the banking sector,” Noyer, who is also a
member of the European Central Bank’s governing council, said
yesterday at a conference organized by the Bank of Finland in
Helsinki. “In this context, the main purpose of stress testing
is to break that circularity.”  Noyer yesterday reiterated the ECB’s resistance to any
model “akin to” debt restructuring as Greece, Ireland and
Portugal try to force through austerity measures and avoid
default.  For more about the report, click here.  For more about Noyer’s remarks, click here.  Comings and Goings  Barclays Made $12.6 Billion Loan to Retain Staff, Bank Says  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s third-largest bank, said it loaned
former employees $12.6 billion to help set up Protium Finance LP
to stop them from quitting.  “Barclays could not offer the management team -- at that
time Barclays employees -- an attractive long-term career
path,” Finance Director Chris Lucas said in a letter to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Jan. 31. “There was,
therefore, a very significant risk that the team would leave,
with the result that Barclays would no longer have the expertise
necessary to manage these asset classes effectively.”  Barclays sold $12.3 billion of debt in 2009 to Protium, a
fund run by Stephen King, former head of the bank’s principal
mortgage-trading group, and Michael Keeley, who was a member of
Barclays Capital’s management committee. The management team,
initially consisting of 45 former Barclays employees, supplied
$50 million of the financing.  At the time, Barclays said the move had nothing to do with
“external pressure” from U.K. or U.S. regulators.  The Telegraph newspaper reported the story earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 