-- 
Shorts Pounce on China’s Harbin Electric Buyout With 75% Payout: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a d i
-- 
2011-06-07T20:39:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/shorts-pounce-on-harbin-electric-with-75-deal-payout-real-m-a.html
Short sellers are preying on  China ’s
 Harbin Electric Inc. (HRBN)  like never before, betting against a Morgan
Stanley-backed hedge fund in a buyout that would generate the
biggest windfall of any acquisition in the world.  Bearish bets against the U.S.-traded maker of electric
motors have almost tripled to a record 28 percent of shares
since Chief Executive Officer Tianfu Yang offered to acquire
Harbin Electric in a $541 million buyout in October, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and Data Explorers. Short interest
increased even as Harbin Electric slumped 34 percent since March
through yesterday as concern grew about the accounting practices
of some Chinese companies listed in the U.S.  Harbin Electric was forced to refute rumors that Yang had
gone missing last month, and its stock dropped to an almost two-
year low as Citron Research raised questions about the accuracy
of its reported net income. While Abax Global Capital is betting
it can profit from Harbin Electric, Chinese companies are facing
scrutiny in the U.S. after  Rino International Corp. (RINO)  said its
financial statements weren’t reliable and  China MediaExpress
Holdings Inc. (CCME) ’s auditor quit. Traders who bought Harbin Electric
yesterday stand to make a 75 percent return if the deal closes.  “I’m very skeptical and have my doubts that Yang can pull
this off,” said Yemi Oshodi, managing director of M&A and
special situations trading at New York-based WallachBeth Capital
LLC. “If it seems too good to be true, it probably is.”  ‘Working Efficiently’  Telephone calls to Yang at the company’s headquarters in
Harbin, China, went unanswered today.  “The special committee is still evaluating the transaction
and everyone is working efficiently,” Christy Shue, Harbin
Electric’s spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview today.
“We are still waiting for the special committee to make their
decision.”  Harbin Electric said on Oct. 11 that it received a non-
binding proposal from Yang and Baring Private Equity Asia Group
Ltd. to acquire the company for $24 a share, 36 percent higher
than its 20-day trading average, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. A month later, Baring pulled back from the agreement.  On April 20, Yang and Abax, the manager of $900 million of
hedge and private equity funds backed by  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
China Development Bank Corp., submitted an amended agreement to
take Harbin Electric private at the same price, according to a
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Biggest Shareholders  Yang and Abax were Harbin Electric’s two biggest
shareholders as of May 1, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Yang
owned 40.7 percent, while Abax held a 5.4 percent stake.  Shares of Harbin Electric have declined 31 percent since
Yang first disclosed his proposal last year, a sign that traders
have become more skeptical the deal will be completed.  Over the same span, the amount of short selling, or the
practice of selling borrowed stock on the bet the price will
decline, rose to 4.7 million shares on June 2, according to
London-based research firm Data Explorers. That represented a
record 28 percent of shares available for trading.  Harbin Electric fell 5.9 percent to $13.68 in U.S.
composite trading yesterday, leaving the stock $10.32 below
Yang’s offer. The 75 percent difference is the widest of any
all-cash offer of more than $500 million globally.  Today, Harbin Electric rose 6.5 percent to $14.57.  Harbin Electric’s Shue said on the company’s earnings
conference call on May 11 its executives wouldn’t be able to
discuss the proposed takeover offer or provide any updates not
already contained in publicly available releases.  ‘Red Flag’  “The lack of transparency is a big red flag,” said Peter Lobravico, New York-based vice president of merger arbitrage
trading and sales at Wall Street Access. “It’s trading where it
is because U.S. investors are used to a much higher level of
disclosure and trustworthiness of information released by
companies. Sometimes radio silence alone can be enough to drive
the stock lower.”  The SEC began an investigation last year into the use of
reverse takeovers, in which a closely held firm becomes public
by purchasing a shell company that already trades.  The Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index of U.S.-listed
stocks slid 42 percent this year through June 6.  More than 24 Chinese firms have disclosed auditor
resignations or accounting problems to the agency since March,
SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  wrote in an April 27 letter.  ‘Lumped In’  Nine days after short seller Carson Block of Muddy Waters
Research said Rino had overstated its sales and claimed
contracts that didn’t exist, the maker of water-treatment
equipment disclosed that two years’ of financial statements
aren’t reliable. The company has lost 95 percent of its value in
the past year.  “The whole group of Chinese companies that listed on the
U.S. exchanges has been a mine field,” said Wall Street
Access’s Lobravico. “Perhaps Harbin is getting lumped in with
those. It’s just a trust issue and lack of clarity.”  Shares of Harbin Electric had declined 17 percent since
June 1, when short seller Citron Research published a report
questioning Harbin Electric’s financials.  Citron said that Harbin’s “four subsidiaries based on
subsidiaries’ Chinese filings showed no more than $12 million
USD of profits.” That compared with $77 million the company
reported in net income last year, Bloomberg data show.  Having a deal “is an easy way to keep your stock up,”
said Andrew Left, Los Angeles-based founder and owner of Citron
Research, who is shorting shares of Harbin Electric. “There’s
no justification of the price. I would put the stock at around
$5 a share.”  ‘Lost Confidence’  He also wrote a report earlier this year questioning the
financials of China MediaExpress, which said in a regulatory
filing on March 29 that its auditor,  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu ,
quit after saying that it “lost confidence in the
representations of management.”  Left was disciplined by the National Futures Association
for accusations in 1995 that he “cheated, defrauded and
deceived commodity futures customers,” according to the
association’s  website .  “We stand by the company’s public filings and it has
provided all of the information required by the SEC,” said
Harbin Electric’s Shue. “I don’t have any knowledge of Citron
except that it is a short seller and is holding short positions
in Chinese companies. We ask that shareholders not look at only
one set of opinions, but to look at more than one analyst’s
reports and the information provided by the company and use that
information wisely and intelligently to assess the company.”  Buy Ratings  Analysts at Maxim Group LLC and Roth Capital Partners LLC,
two firms that cover Harbin Electric according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, rate the stock a “buy” and estimate the shares
will reach $24, equal to the offer price.  Harbin Electric’s financial statements are “most likely”
reliable, said Echo He, Maxim’s analyst in  New York .  The maker of electric motors used in freight trains, meat
slicers, conveyors and automatic car windows said on May 27, the
day after the stock tumbled 5 percent, that the company had
received calls and emails “from a number of investment
professionals” asking about rumors that Yang and Chief
Financial Officer Zedong Xu went missing.  Harbin Electric and its management “categorically deny
such rumors,” it said in a statement. “The company is happy to
report that the entire management team of the company including
Mr. Yang and Mr. Xu have been and are at work and are fully
performing their respective corporate duties.”  Club Lounge Breakfast  Peter Siris, a managing partner at Guerrilla Capital
Management in New York, said he had breakfast with Yang on May
26 at the Club Lounge in the Sofitel Hotel in Harbin, China.
Siris held about 400,000 shares of Harbin Electric as of March
31 and has been adding to his position, he said.  “People are willing to make up stuff, make up evidence
they claim they have,” said Donald Yang, Hong Kong-based
managing director at Abax. “This is almost a wild west, you
don’t feel like this is a regulated market.”  It will cost Tianfu Yang about $463.8 million to take
Harbin Electric private, according to a May 1 regulatory  filing .
On April 29, the company received a letter from  China
Development Bank  committing to a $400 million term loan facility
to fund the purchase, the filing said. A week earlier Abax said
it would contribute financing of up to $63.8 million.  Morgan Stanley became a strategic partner in Abax after
making investments in the company “in early 2007,” according
to Abax’s  website . New York-based Morgan Stanley is also acting
as financial adviser to Harbin’s special committee for the deal.
China Development Bank, the nation’s state-owned policy bank and
its biggest foreign currency lender, was Abax’s anchor investor.  ‘One Extreme or Another’  Morgan Stanley’s Hong Kong-based spokesman  Nick Footitt 
declined to comment.  Sachin Shah, a special situations and merger arbitrage
strategist at Capstone Global Markets LLC in New York, said he
believes the CEO is serious about taking the company private and
that the only missing piece is a signed definitive merger
agreement from the special committee.  “It doesn’t have to be one extreme or another,” Shah
said. “It doesn’t have to be fraud, or a deal gets done at $24.
The process the special committee is going through seems
somewhat irregular. But just because they’re not offering
transparency that doesn’t mean it’s fraud.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammed Hadi in  Hong Kong  at 
 Mhadi1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 