-- 
Slovenian Cabinet Must Trim Spending After Pension Rejection

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-06-07T14:30:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/slovenian-cabinet-must-trim-spending-after-pension-rejection-1-.html
The Slovenian government must rein in
spending and after voters rejected pension changes in a
referendum, the country’s central bank said.  “Slovenia is among the three European Union countries
where public spending is increasing,” the Banka Slovenije said
in an e-mailed statement today. “Debt is relatively moderate
compared with other countries, but could increase in the coming
years due to a high budget gap.”  The majority of voters in the former Yugoslav nation
rejected the government’s proposal to extend the  retirement age 
to 65 from an average 60 now to ease the burden on public
spending, already strained by the one of the worst recession in
the euro region in 2009.  The central bank joined calls by the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund  for Prime Minister Borut Pahor’s
Cabinet to reduce public spending. Central bank Governor Marko
Kranjec on May 27 criticized the government for adding to the
deficit with assistance to state-owned companies, saying
Slovenia risks finding itself in a similar situation to Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal .  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, considers
Slovenia requires additional measures to comply with this year’s
deficit target with the risk that spending may increase further.  “Beyond 2011, there are significant risks to the deficit
and debt targets as the Stability Program does not specify
sustainable measures to contain expenditure,” the commission
said in a report today. It also said the “problem of
sustainability of the pension system remains and other ways of
solving it will need to be found. ”  The  Slovenian government  aims to cut the budget gap to 4.5
percent of gross domestic product this year and to 3.6 percent
in 2012. By comparison, the EU estimated in a May 13 report that
the gap will widen to 5.8 percent this year, from 5.6 percent in
2010.  -- Editor: James M. Gomez  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  