-- 
Small-Cap Analysts Prove Best as ‘Buys’ Beat Out ‘Sells’ by 12%

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   F r e d   J e s p e r s e n
-- 
2011-06-07T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/small-cap-analysts-prove-best-stock-pickers.html
Analysts covering the smallest U.S.
equities are proving to be the best stock pickers.  Standard & Poor’s SmallCap 600 Index companies with the
highest recommendations beat the lowest-rated shares by 12
percentage points in the year ended May 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Over the same period, the S&P 500 shares
most favored by analysts trailed the worst-ranked companies by
6.2 percentage points, the data show.  Small-stock analysts are more successful because their
recommendations tend to influence trading and the companies are
easier to evaluate, according to  James Paulsen  at Wells Capital
Management and Eric Marshall at Hodges Capital Management Inc.
S&P SmallCap 600 companies trade less than those in the S&P 500,
with daily volume averaging 373,240 shares in the past 30 days
versus 5.6 million, Bloomberg data show.  “With small caps, you’re dealing in a universe that’s less
followed, more illiquid -- and people move on analyst calls,”
said Paulsen, the chief investment strategist at Minneapolis-
based Wells, which oversees about $340 billion. “With the large
caps, it’s your standard problem of herds and contrarian
thinking. By the time you give a good case why you’re
recommending a stock, it’s already extended. The smart money’s
already leaving.”  When S&P SmallCap 600 stocks followed by six or more
analysts are ranked by their average rating on May 29, 2010,
companies in the top fifth posted gains of 32 percent during the
12-month period that ended May 31, compared with 20 percent for
the bottom fifth. It’s almost the opposite case for larger
companies: For  S&P 500  equities with 20 or more recommendations,
companies with the lowest ratings returned 33 percent versus 27
percent for the highest.  More Expensive  The S&P SmallCap 600, made up of companies with an average
market value of $870.3 million, rallied 29.7 percent including
dividends in the year ended May 31, beating the S&P 500 by 3.7
percentage points. The index of smaller companies has led the
S&P 500, with stocks averaging $24.6 billion in value, in nine
of the past 10 years, sending its price-to-earnings ratio to the
highest relative to the benchmark measure since 1995.  Large-company analysts have failed to add value throughout
the  bull market  that began in March 2009. Through Dec. 31, the
most-favored S&P 500 stocks posted average gains of 73 percent,
compared with 165 percent for their least favorite.  ‘Incremental Value-Add’  “Once you have a company that has 50 analysts following it
and 48 of them are a buy, the story is well known,” said  Don Wordell , a  fund manager  for Atlanta-based RidgeWorth Capital
Management, which oversees about $48 billion. “There’s no
incremental value-add. It’s not a low expectation story at that
point. Small-cap is just a different animal in that there can be
something very differentiating about that research.”  For every $1 invested in the S&P SmallCap 600 at the
beginning of the five years ended May 31, investors would have
made 28 cents, while earning 18 cents for the S&P 500, according
to Bloomberg data. While small-cap equities have beaten larger
companies in the past decade, they can also underperform during
periods of market volatility. When equities bottomed in March
2009, S&P SmallCap 600 had slumped 59 percent in price from its
high in 2007, compared with the S&P 500’s slump of 57 percent.  Remote Connections  LogMeIn Inc. (LOGM)  was one of the small-cap stocks most-
recommended by analysts last May, according to Bloomberg data.
The Woburn, Massachusetts-based provider of services to connect
remotely to computers has surged 71 percent in the year ended
May 31. It has 10 “buy” ratings and no “holds” or “sells.”  Emergent Biosolutions Inc. (EBS)  in Rockville,  Maryland , was in
the top fifth of stocks with the highest ratings. The maker of
drugs that fight bioterrorism returned 59 percent and has five
“buy” ratings and one “sell.”  Another top-ranked small cap was San Clemente, California-
based  ICU Medical Inc. (ICUI) , a maker of connectors used to administer
intravenous drugs, Bloomberg data show. ICU rallied 36 percent
in the year ended May 31.  Analysts who cover small-cap equities probably have an
advantage because they get more attention from corporate
management and cover companies with less-complex business
models, according to Wordell and Marshall, who helps oversee
about $700 million at Dallas-based Hodges.  “Smaller companies also tend to have fewer moving parts
and that may make the predictability of earnings and  cash flow  a
little bit easier,” Marshall said.  Speaking With Analysts  Wordell said executives are inclined to speak with analysts
because they publicize the companies in research reports sent to
potential investors.  Gregory Wade, a San Francisco-based analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc. who covers biotechnology companies including
Emergent, said the Maryland company has a more “predictable”
business since the U.S. government provides most of its sales.
Emergent said May 26 that the federal government will buy 44.75
million doses of BioThrax, the only anthrax vaccine registered
by the  Food and Drug Administration , over five years.  “There are very few businesses where you can see five
years of visibility into the demand for your product,” said
Wade. Executives at smaller companies may be more forthcoming.
“The U.S. government is also paying for the expansion of your
manufacturing facilities. You’ve got pricing certainty. That’s
just really unprecedented,” he said.  Greater Detail  Richard Baldry, a Baltimore-based senior analyst at Signal
Hill Capital Group LLC who covers companies that provide
Internet-distributed software, said analysts can do more work to
understand smaller stocks in greater detail. Baldry joined
LogMeIn when executives met with clients, and he hosted
management this year at an investor conference.  “If a company only has 500 employees, you can meet five or
10 percent of their employees and get a much better picture,”
he said. “If a company has 10,000 employees, then the sample of
information you’re getting is very small. Management teams are
more accessible in the small-cap world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Jespersen in New York at 
 fjespersen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Laurie Meisler at 
 lmeisler@bloomberg.net  