-- 
Small Reactors May Have Safety Edge After Japan, U.S. Says

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-06-07T19:54:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/small-reactors-may-have-safety-edge-after-japan-u-s-says-1-.html
Nuclear reactors that are about a
third the size of those now used by power companies may have a
safety edge over larger units after  Japan ’s reactor crisis, the
U.S.  Energy Department  said.  The small modular reactors proposed by some manufacturers
have a “lower power level” and “require less cooling after
shutdown,” John Kelly, a deputy assistant energy secretary,
said today at a hearing of the Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee. They can be built underground “which
should improve their security profile and may enhance their
seismic safety,” Kelly said.  The Senate panel is discussing legislation that would help
companies build a new generation of nuclear power plants. A bill
from the committee’s chairman, Senator Jeff Bingaman, a New
Mexico Democrat, would direct the Energy Department to help win
regulatory approval for small-reactor designs by 2021.  Bingaman introduced his measure three days before a 9-
magnitude earthquake and tsunami on March 11 crippled Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant with fires,
explosions and radiation leaks in the worst nuclear incident
since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster. The crisis in Japan has put
U.S. reactors under scrutiny by lawmakers and regulators.  Retooled Factories  Smaller reactors could be built in retooled U.S. factories
and sold to domestic and international customers, according to
the Commerce Department. While most existing reactors can
generate from 800 megawatts to 1,200 megawatts of electricity,
the smaller plants would be 300 megawatts or less, according to
the department.  The plants would be similar to the reactors used in the
U.S. Navy’s submarines and ships, Joe Colvin, president of the
La Grange Park, Illinois-based American Nuclear Society, said at
the hearing.  New reactor designs are being developed by companies such
as Westinghouse Electric Co., a unit of Tokyo-based  Toshiba
Corp. (6502) , and  Babcock & Wilcox Co. (BWC)  of  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  President  Barack Obama  wants Congress to approve $67
million in fiscal 2012 for the Energy Department to start
helping small-reactor developers. Obama’s proposed program is
similar to the concepts outlined in Bingaman’s bill.  The cost of building a conventional two-reactor nuclear
plant exceeds $14 billion, Bingaman said. Smaller-scale reactors
“hold the promise of reducing the cost of nuclear-plant
construction,” he said.  Industry Opportunities  Smaller plants may give the nuclear industry opportunities
for expansion, Senator  Lisa Murkowski , an Alaska Republican,
said at the hearing.  “Not every utility or operating site needs, or even can
handle, a thousand-plus megawatts of nuclear capacity,” said
Murkowski, a co-sponsor of Bingaman’s bill.  The  Nuclear Regulatory Commission , which will decide
whether small atomic- power plants  can be built in the U.S.,
started a 90-day safety review of the nation’s existing 104
commercial reactors after the Japanese disaster. The agency’s
post-Fukushima task force is due to release the results of the
review next month, according to the NRC.  Backers of small reactors want the NRC to issue rules that
are weaker than the regulations for larger plants,  Edwin Lyman ,
a nuclear specialist with the Union of Concerned Scientists in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said at today’s hearing.  If smaller plants get breaks on “emergency planning,
control room staffing and security staffing,” then they “will
not necessarily be safer than large reactors,” Lyman said.  Bingaman’s bill is S. 512.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  