-- 
Sony Says It’s Investigating Two New Possible Attacks, Suspends Website

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-06-07T06:31:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/sony-says-brazil-music-website-suspended-after-suspected-attack-by-hackers.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , targeted since April by
hacker attacks that have compromised more than 100 million
customer accounts, is investigating two new possible intrusions.  The company suspended its Brazilian music entertainment
website while it looks into a possible breach, it said today.
Sony also is investigating a hacker group’s claim that it stole
data related to the company’s game operation.  Sony fell in Tokyo trading, extending declines amid attacks
that the company has said may cost 14 billion yen ($174 million)
this year. Japan’s largest exporter of consumer electronics
reported the new attacks two days after saying hackers had
broken into its European unit’s website. No customer information
was accessed during that intrusion, Sony said yesterday.  “Sony may face a bigger expense to strengthen its security
system if these hacking issues are prolonged,” said Hideki Yasuda, a Tokyo-based analyst at Ace Securities Co., with a
“neutral” rating on the company’s shares. “The company’s
brand image may suffer, pressuring sales.”  Sony dropped 1.5 percent to 2,031 yen at the 3 p.m. close
of trading in Tokyo, reaching the lowest since March 2009 and
extending its loss this year to 31 percent.  Japan ’s benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 0.7 percent today.  The possible attack on Sony’s Brazilian website may have
altered some content, Tomio Takizawa, a spokesman for the Tokyo-
based company, said by phone today without elaborating.  LulzSec Claim  Separately, a group called LulzSec posted statements online
yesterday saying it broke into Sony Computer Entertainment’s
system to obtain developer network information. Sony is
investigating the claim, Satoshi Fukuoka, a company spokesman,
said today by phone.  “It’s like a cat-and-mouse game,”  Naoki Fujiwara , chief
 fund manager  at Shinkin Asset Management Co., said of the
repeated attacks, which also targeted Kyoto-based game maker
Nintendo Co. on May 16. Companies like Sony and Nintendo will be
forced to increase security costs for their online business, he
said.  Sony said yesterday no protected data was accessed during
the attack on its European website, which was discovered June 5.  Nintendo, the world’s largest maker of handheld video-game
players, said yesterday a server attacked May 16 didn’t contain
consumer information.  PlayStation Network Outage  LulzSec posted data on the Internet that it said was a
“server configuration file,” or data for programming purposes,
from a Nintendo server, the Wall Street Journal  reported  June 5.  LulzSec posted statements online earlier this month saying
it broke into the website of Sony’s film unit and downloaded
personal information including passwords, e-mail addresses and
dates of birth from 1 million user accounts. Sony is
investigating whether customer information was compromised
during that intrusion,  Mami Imada , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman,
said by phone yesterday.  Sony resumed full operation last week of the PlayStation
Network in the U.S. and  Europe  after suspending it for six weeks
because of hacker attacks.  Jack Tretton, chief executive officer of Sony Computer
Entertainment America, apologized yesterday “for any anxiety”
online customers may have suffered because of the outage.
Speaking at the E3 video-game trade show in  Los Angeles , Tretton
also acknowledged that game developers lost money during the
shutdown.  The attack on the Brazilian website was reported earlier by
 Kyodo News . The latest possible intrusion by LulzSec was
reported earlier by Reuters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  