-- 
Sony PSP Successor Dubbed PlayStation Vita Will Use AT&T for U.S. Network

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-06-07T02:58:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/sony-selects-at-t-as-sole-u-s-wireless-service-for-vita-player.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  named its next portable
video-game player the PlayStation Vita and selected  AT&T Inc. (T)  as
the exclusive U.S. wireless network provider for the product
that succeeds the PSP.  The 3G/Wi-fi model will cost $299 in the U.S., 299 euros in
 Europe  and 29,980 yen in  Japan , the Tokyo-based consumer
electronics maker said yesterday in a statement.  The Vita is part of Sony’s networked strategy, which
envisions connecting televisions, Blu-ray players, game consoles
and digital cameras via the Internet to movies, music and video
games. Hackers have eroded confidence in the plan by repeatedly
breaking into Sony’s networks since April, an unresolved thorn
addressed by company executives yesterday.  “One of the more important things we learned was about the
trust and loyalty of our consumers,” Executive Deputy President
Kaz Hirai said at the E3 video-game trade show in  Los Angeles .
“We know that the network experience is not only critical for
home entertainment but it’s equally important for mobile
entertainment as well.”  Sony is aiming to create “a home console-like gaming
experience in the palm of your hands,” Hirai said.  The Vita will have a five-inch display using OLED, or
organic light emitting diode, technology and a rear touch pad,
and will offer titles including “Uncharted: Golden Abyss” and
“LittleBigPlanet.”  Weak Spots  Sony fell 2.1 percent to 2,018 yen as of the 11 a.m.
trading break in  Tokyo , headed for the lowest closing price
since March 2009. The shares have declined for four straight
days and are down 31 percent this year. AT&T, based in  Dallas ,
fell 29 cents to $30.36 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading and has added 3.3 percent this year.  The company sees unconnected devices rapidly becoming
commodities as rivals compete for customers, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Howard Stringer has said.  Hackers have exposed weak spots in Sony’s online security.
Attacks on the PlayStation Network and Qriocity entertainment
services compromised more than 100 million accounts, and were
followed by smaller breaches.  Most recently, the company is investigating two new
possible intrusions. Sony suspended its Brazilian music website
today and is investigating a hacker group’s claim that it sole
data related to the game operation.  At a press conference for E3, Jack Tretton, CEO of Sony
Computer Entertainment America, addressed what he called “the
elephant in the room.”  Sony acknowledged game developers lost money during the
PlayStation Network outage that lasted almost a month and
thanked them for their continued support.  Tretton highlighted exclusive content many developers will
offer in the next year for PlayStation users, and said the
console now accounts for 30 percent of Netflix “Watch
Instantly” streaming of movies and television shows.  He also echoed other company executives in apologizing
“for any anxiety” the outage caused online users.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  