-- 
South Korea First-Quarter GDP Expands 1.3%, Less Than Initially Estimated

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-06-08T01:21:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/south-korea-s-first-quarter-growth-pared-to-1-3-in-government-revision.html
South  Korea ’s economy expanded in
line with initial estimates in the first quarter, underpinning
the case for the central bank to raise borrowing costs this week.  Gross domestic product grew 4.2 percent from a year earlier,
unchanged from the earlier estimate, the  Bank of Korea  said in
Seoul today. The economy expanded 1.3 percent in the three
months through March from the previous quarter, less than the
April estimate of a 1.4 percent gain.  The Bank of Korea will meet on June 10 to decide whether to
raise  interest rates  for the third time this year to cool
inflation that’s exceeded its 4 percent target ceiling every
month this year. The central bank will also need to consider
whether growth may slow as higher prices discourage consumers.  “Growth looks pretty solid and inflation is above the
target, calling for an interest-rate hike,” said Chang Jae Chul,
an economist at Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in  Seoul . “But the
central bank may hesitate again this week out of concern over
downside risks.”  The won rose 0.3 percent to 1,079.15 per dollar as of 9:39
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark Kospi index dropped 0.7 percent.  Governor Kim Choong Soo raised interest rates by 25 basis
points in both January and March before unexpectedly keeping
them unchanged last month. He said on May 18 that the Bank of
Korea will continue to boost borrowing costs at its own pace and
that the nation need to be wary of an inflation spiral.  Export Growth  Exports, which are equivalent to about half of economic
output, climbed 23.5 percent last month from a year earlier,
with daily average exports rising to record $2.18 billion in May
from $2.09 billion in April, the economy ministry said June 1.  Consumer prices rose 4.1 percent last month from a year
earlier after a 4.2 percent gain in April, a separate government
report showed last week. Core prices, which exclude fuel and
food prices, advanced 3.5 percent in May from a year earlier,
the fastest gain since June 2009.  Goods exports rose 4.6 percent in the first quarter from
the previous quarter, today’s report showed. Private consumption
increased 0.4 percent and  government spending  rose 1.7 percent
while facility investment dropped 1.1 percent and construction
investment declined 6.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  