-- 
Special Operations Spending Quadruples

-- B y   D o u g l a s   W a l l e r
-- 
2011-06-07T17:04:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/special-operations-spending-quadruples-with-commando-demand.html
The  U.S. Special Operations Command’s 
spending since 2001 has quadrupled, with an almost fivefold
increase in revenue for its four largest defense contractors,
according to a Bloomberg Government study.  The amount paid to the top four defense contractors
supplying the special ops command with equipment and services --
New York-based L-3 Communications Holdings, Massachusetts-based
 Raytheon Co. (RTN) , Florida-based  Harris Corp. (HRS)  and Chicago-based
 Boeing Co. (BA)  -- has increased from $194.8 million in fiscal year
2001 to $949.9 million in fiscal 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The amount of prime contract awards to small businesses,
which are often more nimble in producing specialty products, has
increased even faster -- almost sixfold for procurement,
research and development -- from $121.2 million in fiscal 2001
to $702.4 million in fiscal 2010, according to the study,
published today.  The Iraq and Afghanistan wars, as well as missions
elsewhere to fight terrorists, have resulted in the Tampa,
Florida-based command needing more aircraft, small vessels,
ground vehicles, communications gear and computer equipment. The
command also has issued contracts for actors to play guerrillas
in training exercises and for simulated land mines and mortars
that fire paint.  Other technologies the command is interested in include
weapons to incapacitate suspects temporarily for identity
checks, and “sonic projection” research to electronically beam
a message into one person’s head that couldn’t be heard by
others to confuse a hostage-taker or get a secret message to his
captive.  The command’s non-war base budget has almost tripled from
$2.3 billion in fiscal 2001 to $6.3 billion in fiscal 2011. Add
the money the command has spent fighting in Iraq and  Afghanistan 
and the organization’s total budget amount has quadrupled the
past 10 years to $9.8 billion in fiscal 2011.  The command’s forces include  Army Green Berets  who
specialize in guerrilla warfare,  Air Force commandos  who fly the
operatives to hot spots around the world and  Navy SEALs  who
specialize in amphibious operations.  The command also oversees elite counter-terrorism units,
such as Delta Force from the Army and SEAL Team-6, which carried
out the raid on Osama bin Laden’s Pakistan compound and killed
him on May 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Waller in Washington at 
 dwaller10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  