-- 
Fatal E. Coli Outbreak May Still Be Traced to German Farm, Scientists Say

-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-06-07T11:44:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/sprouts-can-t-be-ruled-out-as-german-source-of-e-coli-researchers-say.html
Sprouts can’t be ruled out as a cause
of the German E. coli outbreak that killed 23 people because the
bacterium may have gone from the farm where they were grown,
scientists said.  Initial tests from an organic farm in northern  Germany 
showed no evidence of the bacteria, authorities in Lower Saxony
state said yesterday. Traces may be undetectable now if the
offending produce was grown from a depleted batch of
contaminated seed weeks ago, said  James Paton , head of the
bacterial pathogenesis laboratory at the University of Adelaide
in  South Australia .  More than a dozen samples from the farm, near Uelzen, are
still being checked, and the cause of the month-old epidemic
remains unknown, according to health officials in Hamburg, which
the European Union said is the “epicenter” of illnesses.
Seventeen cases were tied to a restaurant in Luebeck, about 65
kilometers (40 miles) away, which got supplies from Hamburg.  “They are still pretty strongly suspicious of the sprouts
because the epidemiological link was strong,” Paton said in a
telephone interview today. “It’s just that they haven’t found
it at the farm.”  The property, Gaertnerhof Bienenbuettel, which has produced
sprouts for 25 years, said it recalled produce and informed its
customers immediately. Lab tests in mid-May found no evidence of
E. coli, its proprietors said in a  statement , adding they were
“shocked and concerned” at being linked to the infection.  Women Patients  The German O104 E. coli strain produces a toxin that
attacks the kidneys and blood vessels. Since May 2, 674 people
have developed the life-threatening complication in the EU, and
an additional 1,755 have been stricken with diarrhea, the
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control  said today . A
total of 23 people have died, according to the ECDC.  While the number of new cases of E. coli infection is
rising at a slower rate, it’s too early to “give the all-
clear,” said Cornelia Pruefer-Storcks, the health senator for
the city of Hamburg, at a press briefing today. She said the
exact cause of the outbreak may never be known.  Most cases have occurred in adult women and those who
recently traveled to the north of Germany -- mainly Schleswig-
Holstein,  Lower Saxony , North-Rhine-Westphalia and Hamburg, the
Stockholm-based European health agency said.  “It’s not normal that people go out for a salad and die of
the consequences,” Linda McAvan, a U.K. member of the European
Parliament, said today at a session devoted to the outbreak.  Kidney Damage  The epidemic has killed more people and resulted in more
cases of severe kidney damage than any outbreak on record. About
9,451 people were sickened and 12 killed in a series of
outbreaks in  Japan  between May and December 1996, according to a
1999 study in the  American Journal of Epidemiology . The majority
of those cases were acquired by tainted radish sprouts in school
lunches.  Radish seeds experimentally infected with the germ produced
contaminated sprouts, suggesting the original source may not be
the farm supplying the produce, researchers in  Tokyo  reported in
a  1998 study .  “All of their water systems may be perfectly okay and
their production methods may be fine, it’s just that they are
starting off with contaminated seed stock,” said Paton, who was
among the first scientists to use DNA analysis to trace food-
borne outbreaks in  Australia  in the early 1990s. “If you just
had a single-batch contamination, then the likelihood of there
being any traces left over are remote.”  Hard to Find  Evidence in restaurants and households may also be hard to
find as any offending sprouts would likely have perished in the
weeks since cases were first reported, he said.  It’s possible the source of the German outbreak may never
be discovered, said  Robert Hall , a senior research fellow at
Monash University’s School of  Public Health  and Preventive
Medicine in  Melbourne , Australia.  “It gets really tough at this stage, and I suspect they
may not get it out,” said Hall, who investigated numerous
outbreaks of food-borne diseases as the former director of
communicable disease control with the South Australian health
department in Adelaide.  “You have got to make a lot of fine judgments and you’ve
got to do them in a tearing rush, and with the eyes of the
world’s media glaring at you,” Hall said in a telephone
interview today.  Food Targets  Most disease investigators use methods based on those
described by  Michael Gregg , an epidemiologist with the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention who edited the
textbook Field Epidemiology in 1996, Hall said.  The process typically involves interviewing dozens of
people who fell ill to screen for potential risk factors,
including commonly consumed food and beverage items, he said.
The same questions are then posed to about three times as many
unaffected people, or “controls,” and the data compared in
order to discern key differences.  “That’s quite a difficult thing to do, especially if
you’re doing it in a big rush, which you always are,” Hall
said. “On the basis of the differences, you can get an
epidemiological association, which if you’re lucky, you can then
use to identify the food and test the food. And if you’re really
lucky, it turns out positive as well.”  Once food targets have been identified, investigators will
usually also look for possible contaminants in the environment,
Hall said.  “Part of the difficulty is that it might be quite
widespread through all kinds of cross-contamination mechanisms,
or it might just be a single producer,” he said. “If it’s a
single producer, then that’s usually quite easy to control once
you’ve found it. Then the court cases begin.”  ‘A Great Failure’  EU agriculture ministers are meeting in Luxembourg today.
Vegetable supplies are being destroyed and prices for cucumbers,
lettuce and tomatoes are tumbling after demand slumped and
 Russia  banned imports. Farmers are losing millions of euros a
day and some are being forced out of business by the crisis,
according to Copa-Cogeca, a farm lobby group based in Brussels.  “There has been a failure, there has been a great failure,
and we have to take that into account and try to improve our
safety system so that it will never happen again,” French
Agriculture Minister Bruno Le Maire said in an interview in
 London  today.  European Health Commissioner John Dalli, speaking at the
same session of the European Parliament as McAvan, emphasized
the need to “reduce unnecessary fears” by communicating facts
that are based on science rather than speculation.  “It is crucial that national authorities do not rush to
give information on a source of infection that is not” backed
by science analysis, Dalli said. “We must be careful not to
make premature conclusions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  