-- 
Whitney Says State Fiscal Straits Worse Than Forecast in Fortune Interview

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-06-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/state-woes-are-worse-than-estimated-whitney.html
Meredith Whitney said the financial
condition of U.S. states is worse than estimated, citing a fresh
report from her New York-based company, Fortune magazine
 reported  on the CNN Money.com website.  Debt levels exceed existing estimates and future deficits
will be larger than official numbers demonstrate, Fortune quoted
Whitney, 41, as saying. The report sent to clients yesterday by
her Meredith Whitney Advisory Group LLC looks at the finances of
25 states, 10 more than a September analysis, Fortune said.  Whitney, a bank analyst who gained fame for predicting
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s 2008 dividend cut, told Fortune that the state
debt problem “is a massive headwind for the  U.S. economy ,
second only to housing.” She didn’t respond to calls and e-
mails from Bloomberg News.  The analyst in December helped fuel an investor exodus
after telling CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” show that she expected
“50 to 100 sizable defaults” in the $2.93 trillion municipal-
 bond market . She said the amount would be “hundreds of billions
of dollars” and that it would be “something to worry about in
the next 12 months.” There have been 29 straight weeks of net
withdrawals from U.S. municipal-bond mutual funds from November
to June 1, Lipper US Fund Flows has said.  Municipal-bond defaults declined this year through April,
with 14 valued at $605 million, compared with $1.7 billion in 43
issues in the same period of 2010, according to Distressed Debt
Securities Newsletter for May. The monthly bulletin is published
by Income Securities Advisors Inc. in  Miami Lakes ,  Florida . The
dollar amount peaked in 2008 at $8.5 billion, including 168
defaults of rated and unrated debt, the newsletter said.  Defending Earlier Comments  Whitney has defended her “60 Minutes” comments and also
tried to distance herself from them.  “I never said that there would be hundreds of billions of
defaults,”  Whitney said on Bloomberg Radio on May 18. “It was
never a precise estimate over a specific period of time.”  The analyst also said in the radio interview last month
that there would be a “waterfall” of credit-rating cuts in the
municipal market as a result of state financial difficulties
that will force some investors to sell the securities. She
declined to specify a timeframe for the downgrades.  Whitney reiterated her comments to Fortune.  “I never intended on framing the scale of defaults as a
precise estimate, but I continue to believe that degree of
municipal defaults will be borne out over the cycle,” she is
quoted as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  