-- 
Sudanese Clashes in Oil-Producing State Kill Six, UN Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-06-07T19:19:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/sudanese-clashes-in-oil-producing-border-state-kill-six-un-spokesman-says.html
Six people died in clashes between
the Sudanese government army and Southern Sudanese forces in the
north’s only oil-producing state, the  United Nations  said.  Fighting continued today for a second day, UN spokesman
Kouider Zerrouk said by phone from Khartoum, Sudan’s capital.
The bodies of four policemen and two civilians were brought to
the police hospital in Kadugli, the capital of the border state
of Southern Kordofan, he said.  The UN peacekeeping mission in Sudan is concerned about the
fighting and “the deterioration of the security situation in
Kadugli,” he said. The UN has moved its international staff and
employees of non-governmental organizations to the UN compound
in the city, Zerrouk said. Sudanese army spokesman Al-Sawarmi
Khaled did not answer calls seeking comment. Earlier today, he
said there was no fighting in the state.  Fighting on the border between northern  Sudan  and oil-rich
Southern Sudan, which is due to become independent on July 9,
has raised concern about a resumption of the two-decade civil
war that ended in 2005.  The U.S. today called on both sides to adhere to their
peace agreement, in a statement from the State Department.  “We call for an immediate halt to all military actions
that prejudice the outcome of negotiations on future political
and security arrangements for Southern Kordofan and neighboring
Blue Nile state,” the statement said.  ‘Legitimate Targets’  Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir’s army said last week
that southern troops in Southern Kordofan would be “legitimate
targets” if they didn’t leave the area by June 1.  As many as 60,000 fighters from the Southern Kordofan and
Blue Nile states fought for the south in the civil war,
according to Fouad Hikmat, the special adviser on Sudan for the
Brussels-based  International Crisis Group .  “We don’t have Southern Sudanese in that area,” Aguer
said earlier today by phone from Juba, the regional capital. The
fighters in Southern Kordofan are members of the Nuba ethnic
group from that state, he said. “If Khartoum wants to disarm
them by force, this is the result.”  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in Southern Sudan, which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels of
oil at independence. The state currently pumps about 115,000
barrels of oil per day, according to Sudan’s minister of state
for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Co. and Petro Energy E&P
Co. operate blocks in Southern Kordofan. The concessions are
mostly owned by China National Petroleum Corp. Other stakes are
held by Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd, or Petronas, and
India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  Disarmament  The fighting may have broken out when northern forces tried
to disarm members of the Nuba ethnic group in Southern Kordofan
state, who fought on the side of  Southern Sudan  in the civil war
against the government in Khartoum, Aguer said.  Under a 2005 peace accord, the northern and southern armies
were due to jointly patrol Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile
states on the northern side of the border and the disputed
region of Abyei. The two states and Abyei were key battlegrounds
during the war between the north and the south.  Sudan’s army occupied Abyei on May 21, accusing Southern
Sudanese forces of attacking its soldiers two days earlier, and
rejected calls by the UN Security Council to withdraw from the
disputed region. The seizure sparked an exodus of about 96,000
people, according to UN estimates.  Looting in Abyei  Looting continued in Abyei even after the Sudanese Armed
Forces pledged to stop it, the  UN peacekeeping mission in Sudan 
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We urge the SAF to
uphold its commitment and intervene to stop these criminal
acts,” it said.  The UN mission is also asking the armed forces to “release
all civilians who are still in their custody,” grant
peacekeepers access to the entire Abyei region and “immediately
stop its artillery fire” from the vicinity of the UN compound
in Abyei town, according to the statement.  “This artillery fire is a security threat for the UN
presence, patrols and flights in Abyei and creates high risks
for civilians who may be willing to return to their villages,”
the mission said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Richmond in Juba at 
 mrichmond10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 