-- 
U.S. Consumer Borrowing Increases by $6.25 Billion in Seventh Monthly Gain

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-06-07T19:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/u-s-consumer-credit-rose-in-april-for-7th-month.html
U.S. consumer borrowing rose in April
for a seventh consecutive month, led by a gain in non-revolving
debt, including auto and student loans, the  Federal Reserve 
reported today.  Credit rose by $6.25 billion after a revised $4.82 billion
gain in March that was smaller than the previous estimate, the
Fed said in Washington. Economists projected a $5 billion
increase in, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  The increase in borrowing from commercial banks and credit
unions in April probably reflected growing demand for autos that
has since dropped off as fuel prices climbed. Concern over
rising unemployment may have also caused households to cut
credit card balances, showing consumer spending remained
constrained.  “The gains were driven by non-revolving charges in April,
but this was before $4 gasoline at the pump took a bite out of
car and SUV sales in May,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York .
“The consumer is still leery about running up charge-card
balances after the greatest financial crisis since the Great
Depression.”  Stocks recovered today after the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index’s valuation fell yesterday to the lowest level of the year
and concern over  Europe ’s debt crisis eased. The  S&P 500 index 
climbed 0.5 percent to 1,291.95 at 3:22 p.m. in New York.
 Treasury securities  were little changed.  The median forecast was based on a survey of 37 economists.
Estimates ranged from increases to $2 billion to $7 billion.  Revolving Debt  Revolving debt, which includes credit cards, decreased by
$944 million in April after increasing $37 million the prior
month, according to the central bank’s data. Revolving debt
dropped for 27 consecutive months from September 2008 to
November 2010.  Non-revolving debt, including educational loans and loans
for autos and mobile homes, rose $7.19 billion for the month.
The Fed’s report doesn’t track debt secured by real estate, such
as home equity lines of credit.  Consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of
economic activity, rose a less-than-forecast 0.4 percent in
April, according to Commerce Department statistics released May
27, as the cost of staples like food and fuel increased.  In the  auto industry , General Motors Co.’s U.S. deliveries
exceeded analysts’ estimates in April as increasing demand for
fuel-efficient models pushed the industry’s annual sales rate
above 13 million for the third straight month. Ford Motor Co.
also reported a gain as did foreign vehicle makers.  Auto Sales  Demand dropped to an 11.8 million pace last month, in part
reflecting a lack of inventory as the earthquake and tsunami in
Japan disrupted vehicle production.  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest U.S. discount retailer,
reported a decline in first-quarter gross margin as rising gas
prices curbed demand while Target’s credit-card business
performed better than expected. “In the retail segment, driving
sales continues to be our biggest challenge and number one
priority,” Gregg Steinhafel, chief executive officer of
Minneapolis-based Target, said May 18.  Consumers paid more for gasoline and other petroleum
products. On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , crude  oil prices 
rose as high as $113.93 a barrel on April 29, the most in 2 1/2
years. Prices have since retreated and remain about 40 percent
higher than a year ago.  Households have also had to contend with elevated food
prices. Food costs are projected to rise 3 percent to 4 percent
this year, the most since 2008, according to a May 25 report
from the Department of Agriculture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  