-- 
U.S. Credit-Default Swaps Benchmark Eases After Four-Day Climb

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-06-07T21:44:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/u-s-default-swaps-benchmark-falls-after-climbing-for-four-straight-days.html
The cost of protecting U.S. corporate
bonds from default eased after jumping as much as 6.6 basis
points in the previous four days.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.4 basis point to a mid-
price of 95.6 basis points as of 5:09 p.m. in  New York ,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. Credit-
default swaps on  International Paper Co. (IP)  reversed almost half of
yesterday’s jump after the world’s largest pulp-and-paper maker
made a hostile takeover bid for  Temple-Inland Inc. (TIN)   “It’s a little bit of a break,” said Brian Reynolds,
chief market strategist at WJB Capital Group Inc., which is
based in New York. “When markets go strongly in one direction,
they take a little bit of a pause.”  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, ended
yesterday at the highest level since March 29. Labor Department
figures on June 3 showed employers in May added the fewest
number of workers in eight months, and the jobless rate climbed
to 9.1 percent, the highest this year.  This month brings the scheduled end of the  Federal
Reserve ’s second round of bond purchases, known as quantitative
easing or QE2. The Fed has bought $75 billion of Treasuries a
month since November, and investors are concerned the program’s
end will disrupt financial markets, according to Reynolds.  ‘Multi-Month Correction’  “The big fears in the U.S. are over the end of QE2,” he
said. “It’s not a big deal in the long run, but because there’s
so much fear about it, it can cause a multi-month correction
just like last year.”  The index declined this morning after European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled he may back Greek debt
rollovers. While Trichet is against imposing losses on
creditors, the ECB isn’t opposed to asking them to “maintain
their level of outstanding credit,” he said in  Montreal 
yesterday, the first sign he endorses measures to encourage
investors to buy new Greek debt to replace maturing securities.  Under a plan being discussed by European officials,
investors may get preferred status, higher coupon payments or
collateral to entice them to roll over their holdings when they
mature, two separate officials, who declined to be identified
because the talks are in progress, said last week.  The cost to protect debt issued by International Paper
eased 7.8 basis points to 135.3 basis points after jumping 17.9
basis points yesterday, according to data provider CMA.  Extended Decline  Credit-default swaps linked to Temple-Inland extended their
decline, decreasing 6.3 basis points to 116.3, the lowest since
Jan. 6, 2010, the data show. Yesterday the contracts fell 31.7
basis points, the biggest drop since April 2009, according to
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Memphis , Tennessee-based International Paper’s $3.31
billion hostile takeover bid for Temple-Inland would increase
its share of the North American market for containerboard used
in shipping boxes. Temple-Inland, based in Austin,  Texas ,
rejected the bid and adopted a poison-pill takeover defense. The
offer is 46 percent more than Temple-Inland’s closing share
price yesterday.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  