-- 
U.S. Urges Immediate Transition of Power in Yemen as Saleh Vows to Return

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-06-07T15:45:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/u-s-urges-immediate-transition-of-power-in-yemen-as-saleh-vows-to-return.html
The U.S. called on  Yemen ’s leaders to
proceed with an immediate transition of power even as the Obama
administration works with Saudi Arabia to try to prevent the
country from descending into civil war.  “The instability and lack of security afflicting Yemen
cannot be addressed until there’s some process that’s going to
lead to the economic and political reforms” the people are
seeking, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday at
the State Department.  President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who is recuperating in a
Saudi military hospital after surgery for injuries sustained in
a June 3 rocket attack on his presidential compound, vowed to
return within days, raising the prospect of further violence and
instability.  Today, U.S. administration officials said Saleh was more
badly burned than originally thought, raising doubts about his
ability to return. The Yemeni leader has reportedly received bad
burns to his face and to 40 percent of his body, according to
officials not authorized to speak on the record.  The Saudi cabinet, chaired by  King Abdullah , called for
Saleh to accept an accord to give up power after 33 years in
office, according to the Saudi Press Agency.  Counterterrorism Efforts  Though Saleh has been a strong ally in the fight against
al-Qaeda, U.S. officials say counterterrorism work would
continue with other leaders -- a claim questioned by analysts
such as Simon Henderson and Daniel Green of the  Washington
Institute for Near East Policy .  Terrorist attacks on the U.S. have been planned in Yemen.
Its strategic location in the  Arabian Gulf , the source of  almost
20 percent  of U.S. oil supplies, makes the country’s stability
an administration priority.  Yemen’s tribal divisions and power centers mean the U.S.
has limited ability to shape events or curb violence there,
analysts say. The Saudis have had influence in Yemen through
proximity and money.  “There’s an enormous amount at stake,” Isobel Coleman, a
senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview. “We’re not talking about
implementing democracy in Yemen. I think that right now the
focus and emphasis is on trying to avert civil war.”  Envoy’s Meetings  The U.S. ambassador to Yemen, Gerald Feierstein, has been
meeting with Yemeni officials and the opposition, trying to
understand what steps they are planning next, Clinton said.  The U.S. has received no indication from Saleh whether he
intends to return and is unsure of his plans, according to one
of the administration officials who couldn’t talk on the record.  Beyond trying to speak to Saleh and others on the ground,
the U.S. has limited options, said Mark Quarterman, director of
the Program on Crisis, Conflict and Cooperation at the  Center
for Strategic and International Studies  in  Washington .  “The U.S. is finding there’s not really much they can do
now,” Quarterman said in a telephone interview. “It can urge
groups to talk, it can urge processes that will lead to a
solution or reconciliation, but this is going to be decided in
the mountains of Yemen, not in any office anywhere.”  Yemen ranks 15th out of 60 countries in the 2010  Failed
States Index  created by Foreign Policy magazine and the Fund for
Peace, with only  Afghanistan , Iraq and  Pakistan  in worse shape
in  Asia  and the  Middle East .  Secessionists  The government has waged a battle against Shiite Muslim
secessionists in the north, while coping with a separate
secessionist movement and the militant group al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula in the south.  Anti-government tribal groups have fought Saleh’s forces
since the president refused on May 22 to adhere to a Gulf
Cooperation Council accord that called for him to step down
within 30 days, with parliamentary elections to be held. It was
the third time that talks led by the six-member GCC --
consisting of  Saudi Arabia , Oman,  Kuwait , Bahrain, the United
Arab Emirates and Qatar -- had failed.  U.S. and Saudi interests are closely aligned on Yemen,
Coleman and others say. While the U.S. concern is a power vacuum
from a security perspective, the Saudis, who share a porous
1,000-mile border with Yemen, would also have to contend with
poor Yemenis flooding over their border looking for work.  Terrorism, Drugs  “They fear it from an economic perspective, let alone the
Islamic radicalism, the extremism, the terrorism, the drugs”
that could pour across the border, Coleman said.  Finding the right mix that will be the most stable outcome
for Yemen will have to incorporate all players. “There are a
lot of different moving pieces here,” she said.  The focus of that transition will have to be on preventing
civil war, said Ibrahim Sharqieh, deputy director of the
 Brookings Doha Center , a Qatar-based branch of the Washington
policy group. “That’s the nightmare for everyone.”  “If there is a civil war it is going to touch everyone,
the U.S., Saudi, Yemenis,” Sharqieh said in a telephone
interview. “It would be the ideal environment for al-Qaeda.”  Yemen’s Joint Meeting Parties, the main opposition
coalition, said it supports the move that transferred power to
Vice President Abduraboo Mansur Hadi after Saleh’s departure.  The vice president is assuming Saleh’s duties “until the
president returns,” Abdu Janadi, deputy information minister,
said in a phone interview. Hadi has said Saleh will return in
the “coming days,” according to state-run  Saba news agency .  State Department spokesman Mark Toner said yesterday that
the U.S. counterterrorism efforts don’t depend on Saleh’s
return. Those initiatives are coordinated with the Yemeni
government and not with an individual, Toner said.  Power Base  Analysts Henderson and Green warn that it will matter which
individuals head the government. Hadi has only a small power
base, they wrote in  an analysis .  The new leader is likely to spend his initial months, even
years, maneuvering to solidify power, they said.  “This does not bode well for U.S.-Yemeni counterterrorism
cooperation,” Green and Henderson wrote. “Like Saleh, a weak
president might see the local al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula
as both an enemy and an ally.”  In October 2010, Yemeni militants attempted to send two
parcel bombs to U.S. synagogues. The bombs were seized in the
U.K. and Dubai. Yemen also serves as the base of Anwar al-
Awlaki, a U.S.-born radical Islamic cleric who intelligence
services say is responsible for planning a shooting rampage that
killed 13 at Fort Hood,  Texas , last year and the attempted
bombing of a plane bound for  Detroit  on Dec. 25, 2009.  The U.S. has provided Yemen with about $300 million a year
in security and humanitarian assistance. For the 2010 fiscal
year, military aid accounted for $155 million, including Huey
helicopters, Humvee vehicles and night-goggles, according to the
Pentagon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  