-- 
U.S. April Job Openings and Labor Turnover Report (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-06-07T14:23:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/u-s-april-job-openings-and-labor-turnover-report-text-.html
Following is the text of April job
openings and labor turnover rates.  There were 3.0 million job openings on the last business
day of April, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today.
The job openings rate (2.2 percent), the hires rate (3.0
percent), and the separations rate (2.9 percent) were
essentially unchanged in April. This release includes estimates
of the number and rate of job openings, hires, and separations
for the total nonfarm sector by industry and by geographic
region.  Job Openings  The number of job openings in April was 3.0 million, little
changed from 3.1 million in March. After increasing in February,
job openings have been flat. Job openings have been around 3.0
million for three consecutive months; the last three-month
period with levels this high was September--November 2008. The
number of job openings was 549,000 higher than at the end of the
recession in June 2009 (as designated by the  National Bureau of
Economic Research ) but remains well below the 4.4 million
openings when the recession began in December 2007.  The number of job openings in April (not seasonally
adjusted) increased from 12 months earlier for total private,
four industries, and in the Midwest region. The level decreased
over the year for other services, government, and federal
government. Over-the-year comparisons for federal government in
April are impacted, in part, by the large number of job openings
for temporary workers to conduct the 2010 Census.  Hires  In April, the hires rate was essentially unchanged at 3.0
percent for total nonfarm. The hires rate also was essentially
unchanged for all industries and regions. At 4.0 million in
April, the number of hires has increased from 3.6 million in
October 2009 (the series trough) but remains below the 5.0
million hires in December 2007 when the recession began.  Over the 12 months ending in April, the hires rate (not
seasonally adjusted) was little changed for total nonfarm and
total private. Over the year, the hires rate fell for government
and federal government due, in part, to hiring last year for the
2010 Census. The hires rate increased for information but was
about unchanged for all other industries and all regions.  Separations  Total separations includes quits (voluntary separations),
layoffs and discharges (involuntary separations), and other
separations (including retirements). The total separations, or
turnover, rate was unchanged at 2.9 percent for total nonfarm in
April on a seasonally adjusted basis. Over the year, the total
separations rate (not seasonally adjusted) was essentially
unchanged for total nonfarm, total private, and government.  The quits rate can serve as a measure of workers’
willingness or ability to change jobs. In April, the quits rate
was essentially unchanged for total nonfarm (1.4 percent), total
private (1.6 percent), and government (0.5 percent) and was
little changed in every industry and region. The 1.9 million
quits in April remained well below the 2.8 million quits in
December 2007 when the recession began.  The number of quits (not seasonally adjusted) in April was
about unchanged over the year for total nonfarm, total private,
and government. The number of quits held steady in all
industries but increased in the Midwest region.  The layoffs and discharges component of total separations
is seasonally adjusted at the total nonfarm, total private, and
government levels. The layoffs and discharges rate was
essentially unchanged in April for total nonfarm, total private,
and government. The number of layoffs and discharges for total
nonfarm was 1.5 million in April, the same as the previous low
point of 1.5 million in January 2011. The number of layoffs and
discharges for total nonfarm had peaked at 2.5 million in
February 2009.  The layoffs and discharges level (not seasonally adjusted)
was essentially unchanged over the 12 months ending in April for
total nonfarm, total private, and government. The layoffs and
discharges level decreased over the year for finance and
insurance and in federal government. The number of layoffs and
discharges increased in the Northeast region.  The other separations series is not seasonally adjusted. In
April, there were 313,000 other separations for total nonfarm,
266,000 for total private, and 47,000 for government. Compared
to April 2010, the number of other separations was little
changed for total nonfarm, total private, and government.  Relative Contributions to Separations  The total separations level is influenced by the relative
contribution of its three components--quits, layoffs and
discharges, and other separations. The percentage of total
separations at the total nonfarm level attributable to the
individual components has varied over time, but for the majority
of the months since the series began in December 2000, the
proportion of quits has exceeded the proportion of layoffs and
discharges. Other separations is historically a very small
portion of total separations; it has rarely been above 10
percent of total separations.  Since the end of the recession, the proportion of layoffs
and discharges has declined; however, the proportion of quits
has not returned to pre-recession levels. In April, the
proportion of quits for total nonfarm was 50 percent and the
proportion of layoffs and discharges was 41 percent. The
proportion of quits for total private was 51 percent and the
proportion of layoffs and discharges was 41 percent. For
government, the proportions were 39 percent quits and 40 percent
layoffs and discharges.  Net Change in Employment  Over the 12 months ending in April, hires (not seasonally
adjusted) totaled nearly 47.7 million and separations (not
seasonally adjusted) totaled 46.4 million, yielding a net
employment gain of 1.2 million. These figures include workers
who may have been hired and separated more than once during the
year.  Nearly half of the hires and nearly half of the
separations during these 12 months occurred in three industries:
retail trade; professional and business services; and
accommodation and food services. The large share of total hires
and separations accounted for by these three industries reflects
the size of the industries as well as their relatively high
hires and separations rates.  The Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey results for May
2011 are scheduled to be released on Tuesday, July 12, 2011 at
10:00 a.m. (EDT).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  