-- 
U.S. Economy Stays Above Its ‘Stall Speed,’ Alan Ruskin Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-07T18:39:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/u-s-economy-stays-above-its-stall-speed-alan-ruskin-says-tom-keene.html
The  U.S. economy  is growing above
“stall speed,” according to Alan Ruskin, global head of Group-
of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York  “A lot of people say that if the U.S. economy slows below
2 percent in year-over-year gross domestic product historically,
we’ve slipped in to recession,” Ruskin said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Midday Surveillance” with Tom Keene.
“The key is that we stay above that line, otherwise that is
perceived as stall speed and other issues kick in.”  The U.S. economy is forecast to expand 2.7 percent this
year, according to the median estimate of 72 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg, after growing at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the
first quarter. Projections are for 1.9 percent growth in the
euro zone countries and 2.8 percent in  Australia , separate
surveys show.  “We were at the epicenter of the financial crisis and you
typically see much slower growth post-financial crisis and
that’s what you’re seeing,” Ruskin said. “I am personally
quite constructive on the global economy.”  The  Federal Reserve ’s U.S. Trade-Weighted Major Currency
Dollar Index, which measures the dollar’s performance against
seven currencies, has fallen 12 percent during the past year. It
reached a record low of 68.2405 on May 2, which has helped
exports increase to a record $172.7 billion in March.  “A weak-dollar policy to some extent is part of the
reflation story, not only in the U.S., but externally as well,”
Ruskin said. “I wouldn’t say it’s a policy prescription per se,
but is there an element of benign neglect here? Yes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net  