-- 
U.S. Stocks Drop as Bernanke Gives No Hint of New Stimulus Plan

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-07T20:58:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/u-s-stock-futures-gain-international-paper-climbs-on-temple-inland-bid.html
U.S. stocks fell a fifth day, the
longest slump for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in almost a
year, as  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  gave no hint
of a new round of economic stimulus even as the recovery slows.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Hewlett-
Packard Co. lost more than 1 percent to lead losses in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average . Six of 10 industry groups in the S&P
500 fell, with the index erasing a rally of up to 0.8 percent in
the final minutes of trading, as Bernanke gave no indication of
a new round of asset purchases known as quantitative easing.  The S&P 500 retreated 0.1 percent at 1,284.94 at 4 p.m. in
New York, its lowest level since March 18. The Dow average
reversed a rally of as much as 89 points to close down 19.15
points, or 0.2 percent, to 12,070.81 today.  “It’s pretty obvious that the data has cooled off,” said
Kevin Caron, a market strategist in  Florham Park ,  New Jersey , at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co, which has $115 billion in client assets.
“While Bernanke’s comments suggest that the Fed will be there
to provide liquidity, I don’t think that his assessment is that
there will be additional asset purchases. The market reacted to
the absence of direct commitment to quantitative easing.”  The  S&P 500  has fallen 4.5 percent over the last five days
as signs of a slowing economy spurred concern analyst estimates
for 20 percent earnings growth this year are too optimistic.
Still, the benchmark gauge for American equities rose 2.2
percent this year amid higher-than-estimated corporate earnings
and government stimulus measures.  Economic Weakness  Recent data showing weakness in the economy, including a
rise in the  unemployment rate  to 9.1 percent in May, has
increased the odds the Fed will hold the benchmark interest rate
near zero into next year. At the same time, Bernanke and his
fellow policy makers plan this month to complete a $600 billion
bond purchase program, and they’re discussing the tools they’d
use to withdraw stimulus, according to minutes of their meeting
in April.  Fed Chairman Bernanke said the central bank should maintain
record monetary stimulus to boost an “uneven” and
“frustratingly slow” economic recovery.  “The economy is still producing at levels well below its
potential; consequently, accommodative monetary policies are
still needed,” Bernanke, 57, said today in a speech to a
conference in Atlanta. “Until we see a sustained period of
stronger  job creation , we cannot consider the recovery to be
truly established.”  Cisco Slumps  Some of the biggest U.S. companies slumped. Cisco, the
largest maker of networking gear, dropped 3 percent to $15.51.
Bank of America declined 1.7 percent to $10.65. Hewlett-Packard
sank 1.1 percent to $35.57.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  dropped 2 percent to $5.49. The third-
largest U.S. wireless operator was cut to “sell” from “hold”
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which said analysts’ expectations on
the company’s planned Network Vision program to consolidate
technologies to improve voice quality and data speeds may “very
well prove to be overly aggressive.”    Talbots Inc. (TLB)  plunged 41 percent, the most in the Russell
2000 Index, to $2.63. The women’s clothing retailer said fiscal
second-quarter sales will decline “significantly” and profit
margins would narrow on price markdowns and fewer customer
visits.  Earlier gains in U.S. stocks today came amid speculation a
five-week slide left American equities cheap compared with
prospects for earnings growth. The benchmark gauge yesterday
fell to about 12.2 times its companies’ forecast operating
earnings, the cheapest valuation in more than nine months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Intel Rallies  Intel Corp. (INTC)  rallied 1.1 percent to $22.06. A potential
foundry relationship between the world’s largest chipmaker and
Apple may be forming, according to Citigroup. “Given the growth
opportunity this opens for x86 processors, we would view such a
foundry relationship, were it to happen, positively,” Citigroup
wrote in a note to clients.  Barton Biggs , the hedge-fund manager who bought stocks when
the market bottomed in March 2009, said technology companies
such as Cisco Systems Inc. and Intel are attractively priced and
that he’s avoiding financial shares.  With older technology companies, “you can almost buy them
as big-capitalization value. They’re way too cheap,” said
Biggs, who runs New York-based Traxis Partners LP, in an
interview today on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness” with
Margaret Brennan.  Tech Valuation  A gauge of information-technology companies in the S&P 500
has a price-to-earnings ratio of 14.7 times reported earnings,
compared with 14.6 for the broader measure. That’s close to the
lowest valuation for the technology gauge compared with the S&P
500 since December 2009. Cisco’s P/E ratio is 11.7, while
Intel’s is 10.1.  Temple-Inland Inc. (TIN)  soared 40 percent to $29.49.
 International Paper Co. (IP) , the world’s largest pulp-and-paper
maker, made a $3.31 billion hostile takeover bid for the company
to expand production of containerboard used in shipping boxes.
Temple-Inland, based in Austin,  Texas , rejected the bid.  U.S. stocks are unlikely to drop much more even as the
Federal Reserve stops buying bonds because there’s more than
enough money available, according to  Brian Belski , Oppenheimer &
Co.’s chief investment strategist.  “There’s plenty of money in the system,” a report by
Belski said, noting that M2 climbed at a 6.9 percent compound
annual rate since 1950. The increase is in line with the
comparable figure for the S&P 500, 6.4 percent a year. Any
pullback by the Fed “shouldn’t mean stocks will suffer longer
term,” Belski wrote.  What’s holding back the stock market and the economy is “a
general lack of sustainable confidence,” rather than a lack of
money, he wrote. “Summer will likely set the stage for a fits-
and-starts market for the remainder of 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  