-- 
Muddy Waters to Release More Sino-Forest Research After Sparking 71% Slump

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-06-07T13:50:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/muddy-waters-to-release-more-sino-forest-research-after-sparking-71-slump.html
Carson Block, the short seller whose
assertions of financial manipulation by  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) 
preceded a 71 percent plunge in the forestry company’s shares
last week, said he will release more research “pretty soon.”  He will address Sino-Forest’s 2010 purchase of engineered-
wood products company Homix Ltd. and the company’s majority
stake in Greenheart Group Ltd. Sino-Forest said Block’s
statements are false and that it’s studying its legal options.
It appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers to assist with its
investigations of allegations by Block’s Muddy Waters Research.  “We didn’t really do our accounting tour de force,” said
Block, the founder of Hong Kong-based Muddy Waters who’s said he
doesn’t like to give his exact address because he’s received
death threats. “Our resident accounting monster is chomping at
the bit to get going.”  Block, who stands to make money from declines in Sino
Forest’s share price, has published research on Chinese
companies at  Muddy Waters  that preceded declines totaling almost
$4.4 billion from  five of them  since before publication through
June 3. The firm focuses on what it says are under-researched
companies.  Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based Sino-Forest
tumbled last week after Block said the company’s disclosures of
land holdings  don’t match Chinese city records  and that its
stated production figures may not be accurate.  Moody’s Review  Sino-Forest, an operator of timber plantations backed by
Paulson & Co., had its Ba2 corporate family and senior unsecured
credit ratings put on review for possible downgrade by Moody’s
Investors Service, Moody’s said today in a statement.  Shares of Sino-Forest dropped 18 cents, or 2.9 percent, to
C$5.98 as of 9:41 a.m. on the Toronto Stock Exchange. It
rebounded 18 percent yesterday after publishing documents on its
 website  that it says support its financial disclosures.  The company said it’s been “thoroughly scrutinized” by
major international underwriters and law firms inside and
outside of  China  in the course of seven public and private
offerings over the past five years. Sino-Forest also is planning
an analyst tour of its operations in China in July, according to
the statement.  PricewaterhouseCoopers will start work immediately, Sino-
Forest said in a regulatory filing.  On a conference call yesterday, Block, 35, said Muddy
Waters has been unable to find a Greenheart corporate
registration in Suriname, a South American country where the
forestry company operates. Trading in Greenheart shares was
suspended June 3 “pending the release of an announcement of
price-sensitive information,” the company said.  ‘Operate as Normal’  “The Board would like to stress that the company has
established its own operational management and operational teams
in its forestry assets independent from Sino-Forest,”
Greenheart said in a statement today. Operations in Suriname and
 New Zealand  “are not the subject of the Sino-Forest Allegations
and will continue to operate as normal.”  The company has applied for its shares to resume trading in
 Hong Kong  from 9 a.m. tomorrow, according to the statement.  David Horsley, Sino-Forest’s chief financial officer,
didn’t return a call to his mobile phone. Louisa Wong, a company
spokeswoman in Hong Kong, didn’t return an e-mail message. A
call left to the company’s office in Hong Kong also wasn’t
returned.  Biggest Target  Sino-Forest is Muddy Waters’ biggest target to date. Ten
researchers spent two months looking at the business, and
government records indicated the company would have a capital
hole of as much as $922 million if it had made the investments
it claimed, according to the June 2 report.  The firm has also released reports on companies including
China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. and Rino International Corp.  Regulators and investors have increased scrutiny of Chinese
companies trading in  North America . The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission began an investigation last year into the
use of reverse takeovers, in which a closely held firm becomes
public by purchasing a shell company that already trades. The
Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index of U.S.-listed stocks
has fallen 40 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 