-- 
Muddy Waters ‘Pre-Marketed’ Sino-Forest Report to Hedge Funds, Dundee Says

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-06-08T12:48:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/muddy-waters-pre-marketed-sino-forest-report-to-hedge-funds-dundee-says.html
Muddy Waters  Research, the firm
founded by short seller Carson Block, “pre-marketed” its June
2 report on  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  to hedge funds for the past five
weeks, said an analyst at Dundee Securities Ltd.  Sino-Forest tumbled 34 percent in Canadian trading
yesterday, taking its decline to 78 percent since June 1, the
day before Muddy Waters publicly released the report that said
Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based Sino-Forest’s
disclosures of land holdings  don’t match Chinese city records 
and that its stated production figures may not be accurate.
Block, who said June 6 he will keep betting against Sino-Forest
until its shares reach “zero,” stands to make money from
declines in its stock.  “Muddy Waters pre-marketed this smoking-gun report on
Sino-Forest to hedge funds over the last five weeks,” said
Richard Kelertas, a Montreal-based analyst at Dundee, which
helped sell shares in Sino-Forest as recently as December 2009.  “These  hedge funds  got involved with Sino-Forest in a big
way,” Kelertas said yesterday on a conference call with
investors and reporters, declining to name the funds or say how
he obtained the information. “The short position almost doubled
in two to three weeks.”  Kelertas, who said he had visited Sino-Forest’s holdings in
China annually for seven years, said the Muddy Waters report was
inaccurate and there’s nothing fraudulent about Sino-Forest “to
the best of our knowledge.” He recommended buying Sino-Forest
shares from September 2007 until June 3, when he put his rating
on the company under review.  Share Sale  Block declined to comment on Kelertas’s assertions when he
was contacted by e-mail.  Dundee was among institutions that helped Sino-Forest sell
shares in December 2009 and also in May 2009.  Short selling, or selling borrowed shares with the hope of
profiting when they fall, more than doubled to a record 35
percent of Sino-Forest’s outstanding stock as of June 3, up from
17 percent at the beginning of May and 13 percent at the end of
2010, according to Data Explorers, a New York-based research
firm. Sino-Forest was the most-shorted stock in the Standard &
Poor’s TSX Composite Index, which has an average short interest
of 4.8 percent.  Sino-Forest dropped C$2.11 to C$4.05 at 4:27 p.m. yesterday
in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The shares have declined 83
percent this year.  Greenheart Plunge  Greenheart Group Ltd., the Hong Kong-based company 64
percent-owned by Sino-Forest, plunged as much as 82 percent
today when it resumed trading after being suspended since June
2. The company, which has forestry operations in Suriname and
 New Zealand , closed 63 percent lower at HK$1.03, the lowest
since June 2009.  “Greenheart’s major operations are independent of our
parent company and we are not subject to the allegations,”
David Wu, director of corporate development and  investor
relations  at Greenheart, said today by phone. “If we are
subject to any such allegations, we will investigate and take
action accordingly.”  New Zealand in February approved Greenheart’s acquisition
of the Mangakahia forest plantation in the north of the nation’s
 North Island  for $77 million, according to the Overseas
Investment Office, which assesses applications from foreign
buyers seeking to invest in sensitive New Zealand assets.  Block, who doesn’t like to give his exact address because
he said he’s received death threats, said this week he plans to
release more research on Sino-Forest and will address its stake
in Greenheart. Sino Forest said the statements are false and
it’s studying its legal options.  Not Illegal  Offering a report to hedge funds before making it public is
not illegal, said  James Fanto , who teaches classes on
international financial regulation and securities laws at
Brooklyn Law School in  New York .  “Muddy Waters can profit from this information itself, or
allow others to profit from their insights as well,” Fanto said
in an e-mail message. “The only problems emerge when research
is in fact based on insider tips. But that doesn’t seem to be
the case here.”  The shares will recover “much faster than people
suspect,” as the company releases  documents  that prove Block’s
statements false over the next seven to 10 days, Kelertas said.  Common Practice  Sino-Forest’s use of so-called authorized intermediaries,
which Block says were a means to avoid taxes, is actually a
common and legal practice in China, Kelertas said.  The State Administration for Industry & Commerce documents
Block cites in his report are private and not legally obtainable
by third parties, the analyst said.  Sino-Forest isn’t similar to  China  Forestry Holding Co.,
which has had its shares halted since January after KPMG
International identified what China Forestry called “possible
irregularities.” China Forestry had its initial public offering
in 2009 and is based only in  Hong Kong . Sino-Forest went public
in 1994.  “The stories are not comparable in any manner,” Kelertas
said on the call, referring to Sino-Forest and China Forestry.  Kelertas said Dundee has spoken to Sino-Forest management
20 times since Block released his report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 