-- 
Uganda to Boost Agriculture Output to Mitigate Food Costs

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-06-07T17:43:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/uganda-to-restructure-agriculture-to-boost-output-president-museveni-says.html
     June 7 (Bloomberg) -  Uganda , where protests against rising
food and fuel prices erupted in April, will restructure its
agriculture industry to boost output and fast-track construction
of an oil refinery, President Yoweri Museveni said.  The East African nation will promote irrigation, use of
fertilizers and commercialization of the industry to enhance
production, Museveni said today in his state of the nation
address in the capital, Kampala. The country will rehabilitate
four government-owned irrigation programs by December 2012 as
the country moves away from over-reliance on rain water for
agriculture.  “Structural transformation entails moving away from rain-
fed agriculture to irrigation, from the hand-hoe to mechanized
agriculture,” he said without outlining the timeline. “In
production and food security, government will focus on
increasing farm productivity through use of fertilizer and
improved planting seed variety and animal variety,” he said.  Ugandan main opposition leader  Kizza Besigye  led the twice
weekly “walk-to-work” protests over rising inflation in the
last two months. Inflation in Uganda accelerated to 16 percent
in May, the highest level in 17 years, from 14.1 percent in
April, as food prices surged, the Uganda Bureau of Statistics
said on May 31.  Lending for Agriculture  An agriculture credit facility of 90 billion shillings ($38
million) has been established for lending to the industry at
interest of 12 percent and repaid in up to eight years, he said.
Lending rates in the country range from 22 to 36 percent. Uganda
is  Africa ’s second-biggest producer of coffee, after  Ethiopia .  The country will fast-track the construction of an oil
refinery to mitigate rising global prices, with the nation
expected to produce refined oil products in three to four years,
Museveni said. Discovered oil reserves can support daily
production of 100,000 barrels of oil for 25 years, he said.  Uganda, East Africa’s third-biggest economy, is on the cusp
of an oil boom with  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the U.K.-based energy
company, expected to start pumping crude and gas from the Lake
Albert Basin in 2012. The country has an estimated 2.5 billion
barrels of oil, with about 1 billion barrels in proven reserves,
according to Tullow.  Uganda will repair the government-owned 30 million-liter
(7.9 million-gallon) reserves which it will restock as well as
enforcing oil marketers in the country to maintain reserves
which can last 10 days as way of regulating prices, he said.  The construction of the 250 megawatt Bujagali hydropower
project along the Nile River is on schedule, with the first
output of 50 megawatts expected in October. The plant expected
to reach full capacity in April 2012, Museveni said.  Construction of the 600 megawatt Karuma hydropower project,
also along the Nile, will start in July this year as the country
moves to boost power generation to spur growth, Museveni said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 