-- 
Ukraine-Russia Talks End Without Lower Price for Russian Gas

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-06-07T18:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/ukraine-russia-discussions-end-without-lower-price-for-russian-natural-gas.html
Talks between the Ukrainian and
Russian prime ministers ended without Ukraine gaining a cut in
the price of gas imported from  Russia .  Ukrainian Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  met with his Russian
counterpart,  Vladimir Putin , today in Moscow to seek a review of
their countries’ 2009 gas accord, which Ukraine has called “a
burden” on its economy. Ukraine, the largest consumer of
Russian gas, pays $297 per 1,000 cubic meters of fuel under the
discount. Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych  said May 24 he
wants to cut the price to $240 per 1,000 cubic meters.  “We have a contract. It works and it was signed,” Putin
told reporters after the talks, add that the price was market-
related. “We are ready to discuss various options.”  Ukraine depends on Russia for more than 50 percent of its
 natural-gas  supply and in turn the country of 46 million is the
main transit route for Russian fuel to European Union countries.
Russian gas shipments to  Europe  were halted for two weeks in
2009 because of a price dispute between Russia and Ukraine.  “The ideal formula leads to the fact that our neighbors
are getting gas at a lower price,” Azarov told reporters. “We
presented the arguments for the working group to consider. But
of course we take a civilized approach to the existing
agreement. We are fulfilling it, until it is revised,” he said,
adding that solutions may be found in three months.  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, links its
contract prices to oil and oil products with a lag of six to
nine months. The price for Ukraine may jump to $400 in the
fourth quarter, according to Ukraine’s Energy and Coal Ministry.  In April 2010, Russia agreed to reduce the price it charges
Ukraine in exchange for extending the lease on a Black Sea naval
base. Now, Russia is trying to use fuel prices as a lure to pull
Ukraine into a customs union with Belarus and  Kazakhstan  even as
the former Soviet republic looks to deepen economic and
political ties with the EU.  “There are probably some different variants that would let
us talk, hold a dialog and finally find acceptable solutions,”
Putin said at the joint news conference. “A group will start
working on this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 