-- 
Carey Mulligan Comes Undone in ‘Darkly’; Lysistrata Sings: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-06-07T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/mulligan-cracks-up-in-glass-darkly-lysistrata-sings-review.html
Ingmar Bergman’s brief, intense
“Through a Glass Darkly” offers the young star Carey Mulligan
a choice opportunity to play a woman well beyond the verge of a
nervous breakdown.  She throws herself fully (and at several points quite
physically) into the role of Karin, an iconic Bergman heroine at
once childlike and seductive, consuming the attentions of the
men around her while falling utterly apart inside.  Mulligan was brilliant in the creepy coming-of-age film
“An Education” and as Nina in “The Seagull” on Broadway in
2008. Here she plays a doctor’s wife recuperating from a mental
hospital stay at her childhood seaside home. With the couple are
Karin’s father David (Chris Sarandon, perfectly cast), a vain
writer of popular novels, and her sensitive younger brother,
Martin (Jason Butler Harner), so desperate for his father’s
approval that he has written a play to impress him.  The one-act drama begins with all four characters tumbling
from the beach into Takesha Kata’s spare cottage setting, trying
too hard to show how much fun they’re having. Father and son-in-
law Max (Ben Rosenfield) are relegated to chores while Karin and
Martin dally in provocative horseplay, foreshadowing a climactic
sibling encounter.  Before this, however, there are echoing conversations, one
between David and Max, the other between Karin and Martin, about
the nature of God that add great empathy to the proceedings
without veering into ponderousness.  Jenny Worton’s stage adaptation, directed with urgency by
David Leveaux, is more explicit than Bergman’s 1961 film, while
lacking his visual elegance. On its own merits, “Through a
Glass Darkly” impresses as a character study, if not so much as
a fully satisfying drama.  Atlantic Theater Co, production at New York Theatre
Workshop, 79 E. 4th St. through July 3. Information: +1-212-279-
4200;  http://www.atlantictheater.org 
Rating: ***  ‘Lysistrata Jones’  A youthful cast abundant with good spirits lifts
“Lysistrata Jones” above the usual summer sillies.  It’s a dumbed-down spin on the 2,400-year-old comedy by
Aristophanes about the women of  Athens  who go on a sex strike
until their men stop running off to war. The script is by
Douglas Carter Beane (whose similar but better “Xanadu” was a
Broadway hit), songs by Lewis Flinn, and terrific staging and
choreography by Dan Knechtges.  Hoop Dreams  The clueless basketball team at “less-than-competitive”
Athens U is used to celebrating its losses with the more-than-
willing cheerleading squad, until their leader, Lysistrata Jones
(Patti Murin, a tiny powerhouse), has her consciousness raised
by poetry-slamming, fire-breathing librarian (brassy Lindsay
Nicole Chambers). It all unfolds under the beneficent maternal
nudging of Hetaira (the not-so-tiny powerhouse Liz Mikel).  Beane indulges every conceivable stereotype (Aristophanes
would have been proud) and injects enough topical humor (there’s
even a reference to  Dominique Strauss-Kahn ). A little goes a
long way. But the songs are harmless (some even better than
that) and the setting -- an actual gymnasium -- gives it a site-
specific buzz. It’s piffle, but entertaining piffle.  Transport Group at the Gym at Judson, 243 Thompson St. at
Washington Square South, through June 19. Information: +1-212-
866-4111;  http://www.transportgroup.org 
Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 