-- 
Humala Cabinet Picks Will Test Lula-Like Reinvention to Calm Peru Markets

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-06-07T21:10:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/humala-s-cabinet-will-test-reinvention-to-calm-peru-s-markets.html
Ollanta Humala convinced a bare
majority of voters that  Peru ’s booming economy would be safe
with him as president. Now he must calm nervous investors,
starting with his choices for finance minister and the rest of
his cabinet.  And time is short. Peru’s stock market plunged 12 percent
yesterday, the most on record, after Humala edged out investor-
friendly Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori in the June 5 runoff vote.
Investors are concerned that Humala’s government could reverse
policies the government expects will attract $50 billion of
mostly mining investment and fuel average annual economic growth
of 6 percent over the next three years.  “Humala has to come out and send a signal or this selloff
won’t end,” said Mauricio Cardenas, director of the Latin
America program at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington .
“The market is asking for a response. It wants to hear who the
finance minister will be.”  Humala’s campaign strategy took a page from the playbook of
Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, who was elected president of Brazil
in 2002 by persuading voters that his history as a union leader
wouldn’t lead him to pursue policies that damage the economy.
Like Humala, Lula’s climb in the polls triggered a selloff of
Brazilian bonds and stocks.  Stock Trading Suspended  Humala’s confirmation as president-elect yesterday sent
markets lower, with Peruvian debt trading like junk and the sol
plunging the most since June 2009. Trading on Peru’s benchmark
stock index was suspended yesterday for the first time since
October 2008, during the height of the global financial crisis.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Peru dollar debt
instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 23 basis points to 215
yesterday, the steepest rise in a year.  Today, the yield narrowed 19 basis points to 196 at 3:25
p.m. New York time. The  Lima  General Index rose 7 percent to
19,881.10 and the currency strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.7865
per  U.S. dollar .  “I ask the country for calm,” Humala told reporters in
Lima today. “We’re doing our best and we have to keep working.
Every election in the world is a triumph of democracy over other
systems that aren’t practiced here.”  To reassure Peruvians the country’s economic policies will
remain in place, Humala may appoint in the coming days an ally
of former President  Alejandro Toledo  to head the  Finance
Ministry , Omar Chehade, the second vice president-elect, said
yesterday. Potential candidates include former deputy finance
minister  Kurt Burneo  and former central bank President Oscar Dancourt, he said.  Free Trade Agreement  Both officials served under Toledo when Peru negotiated a
free trade agreement with the U.S. They will form part of a 19-
member team lead by first vice president-elect Marisol Espinoza
to handle the transition to government.  Burneo was also an adviser to Toledo during his
unsuccessful bid to regain the job he held from 2001 to 2006.
Toledo, who endorsed Humala after finishing fourth in the first
round of voting, said he plans to “jealously guard” Peru’s
economic stability against any excesses by Humala’s government.  Humala’s economic program won’t include any “surprises,”
and the President-elect will respect mining and oil contracts
and trade accords, Burneo told reporters in Lima today.  Budget Tightening  As was the case with Lula, a pre-election market selloff
forced Humala to issue a “Letter to the Peruvian People”
vowing to maintain President  Alan Garcia ’s budget-tightening
policies and support for an independent central bank. Ahead of
the runoff vote, Humala shelved a 198-page platform that
included proposals to ban gas exports to lower domestic fuel
costs and nationalize airports.  Humala also played down his ties to  Venezuela ’s  Hugo Chavez , which caused controversy during the 2006 campaign, when
he lost by five percentage points to Garcia. This year, he
instead hired two former Lula advisers to help manage his
campaign.  To reinforce his ties with Latina America’s biggest
economy, Humala plans to travel to Brasilia and meet with Lula’s
successor and protege,  Dilma Rousseff , before taking office July
28, Marco Aurelio Garcia, a foreign policy adviser to Rousseff,
told reporters yesterday.  “The people have been waiting a long time for change,”
Humala, 48, told thousands of supporters at a June 5 rally in
downtown Lima to commemorate his victory. “It’s not possible to
say that the country is progressing when 12 million people are
living in extreme poverty.”  Smooth Transition  As he took office in  Brazil , Lula moved quickly to reassure
markets by naming one of their own, FleetBoston Financial Corp.
banker Henrique Meirelles, to head the central bank. Officials
from the outgoing government helped smooth the transition by
meeting privately with banks and the  International Monetary Fund 
to dispel fears Lula would default on the nation’s debt.  In the next eight years, inflation in Brazil was slashed to
5.91 percent in 2010 from 17.2 percent, the country won its
first-ever investment grade rating and cash payouts helped 36
million people enter the middle class.  Brazil’s economy expanded 7.5 percent last year, the
fastest pace in two decades, while Venezuela’s was the last in
Latin America to emerge from the global recession. Chavez’s
policies of nationalizing key industries have led to food
shortages that are fueling inflation that at 22.8 percent in May
was the highest among 78 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  Venezuela ‘Disaster’  “Humala’s had enough time since the last election to see
that Venezuela’s economy is a disaster while Lula has been a
success in Brazil,” said Cardenas, a former economic
development minister in  Colombia . “But markets aren’t going to
give him the benefit of the doubt.”  Peruvian investors are more worried than their foreign
counterparts that Humala’s changes are cosmetic, said Pablo Secada, chief economist at the Peruvian Institute of Economy, a
Lima-based research organization.  Like Chavez, who as a paratrooper led a failed coup in
1992, Humala has been dogged by his past support for armed
rebellion. In 2000, as a lieutenant colonel, he led 50 soldiers
who seized and occupied for a week one of Phoenix-based  Southern
Copper Corp. (SCCO) ’s mines.  “Humala may be a moderate but the people surrounding him
aren’t,” said Secada, who is also an adviser to Finance
Minister Ismael Benavides. “They aren’t just aiming for a
redistribution of income, they want radical change.”  Collapse ‘a sign’  Chavez, who stayed quiet during the campaign, said today
the collapse in Peruvian stocks after Humala’s triumph “is a
sign from those who think they are owners of the world.” Garcia
said he hoped all Peruvians would rally around his successor.  That won’t be easy with a gridlocked Congress where
Humala’s Nationalist Party has only 47 of 130 seats. Unlike
Lula’s Workers’ Party, which has its roots in Brazil’s union
movement and readied itself to take power while leading the
opposition for two decades, Humala created his political
movement on the eve of the 2006 race. That was after he returned
to Peru from  South Korea , where he was military attach.  “Compared with Lula and his people, Humala is a political
amateur,” said Steven Levitsky, a professor of government at
 Harvard University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “The best thing
to do would be to calm down the markets and name a finance
minister today.”  Strong Economy  One advantage he does have that Lula didn’t is the strength
of the Peruvian economy, the fastest growing in  Latin America 
over the past decade. Growth has remained above 7 percent for
each of the past 13 months. The country won an investment grade
rating on its foreign debt from  Standard & Poor’s  in 2008, and
exports rose to a record $35 billion last year on high prices
for the country’s copper and gold.  Mining companies will continue to invest in Peru even if
Humala doubles taxes on their profits to finance higher spending
on health, education and infrastructure projects, Secada said.  “They have a ball in the front of an open goal,” said
Levitsky, who is currently teaching at Pontificia Universidad
Catolica del Peru in Lima. “There’s a lot of room to negotiate
with the mining companies and to spend more on the poor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Murphy in Lima at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net 
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  