-- 
Hungary April Industrial Production Accelerates on Recovery

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-06-07T08:31:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/hungarian-april-industrial-production-accelerates-on-recovery.html
Hungary’s industrial output grew more
than economists estimated in April, bolstering the recovery from
the country’s worst recession in 18 years.  Production expanded a workday-adjusted 9.5 percent from a
year earlier after growing 9.2 percent in March, the  statistics
office  in Budapest said today in a preliminary report. The
median estimate of 14 economists in a Bloomberg survey was 9.1
percent. Output increased 0.5 percent on the month after a 3.6
percent decline in the previous month.  “The correction after the earlier month-on-month drop was
well expected but did not make up for the earlier fall
entirely,”  Gyorgy Barta , a Budapest-based economist at CIB
Bank, a unit of Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, said in an e-mail.  Hungary is looking to the euro region, which buys 60
percent of the products made or assembled in the country,
including  Audi AG (NSU)  cars and Nokia Oyj phones, to support its
recovery after the economy fell into recession during the global
financial crisis.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  plans to boost economic growth
to 3.2 percent this year and as much as 5.2 percent by 2014 from
1.2 percent last year.  The forint strengthened 0.3 percent to 265.16 per euro at
9:42 a.m. in Budapest. The benchmark BUX stock index advanced
0.8 percent, led by gains in OTP Bank Nyrt. and refiner Mol
Nyrt.  Industrial production may grow by 7.5 percent to 8 percent
this year, with output slowing later this year when budget cuts
across  Europe  may damp demand, according to Zsolt Kondrat, an
economist at the Hungarian unit of  Bayerische Landesbank  in
Budapest.  “Lackluster domestic consumption and investment will also
weigh on Hungarian industrial production,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 Ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  