-- 
Hungary Needs More Budget Measures to Meet Deficit Goal, EU Says

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-06-07T14:56:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/hungary-needs-more-budget-measures-to-meet-deficit-goal-eu-says.html
Hungary  should bolster efforts to
counter the structural deterioration of its budget, implementing
additional steps by next year at the latest to ensure deficit
goals are met, the European Commission said.  Hungary, which has missed the European Union’s budget
deficit limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product every year
since joining the bloc in 2004, has announced spending cuts
designed to prevent the budget from unraveling as the benefits
of one-time efforts to boost revenue wane.  “Fiscal consolidation remains a major challenge,” the
EU’s executive arm said in an assessment of the government’s
spending plans posted on the agency’s  website  today. “Without
rigorous implementation of the measures and additional measures
of a structural nature, it can’t be ensured that the excessive
deficit would be corrected on a sustainable basis.”  Hungary’s budget shortfall would have reached 7 percent of
GDP without one-time revenue from bringing privately managed
pension funds back into the budget, the  Economy Ministry  said
last month. Pension-fund revenue will swing the budget into a
surplus of 2 percent.  Economic projections in the government’s euro convergence
program are “slightly too favorable,” particularly regarding
domestic demand, the commission said. The plan is “back-
loaded,” with structural improvements starting only in 2012,
according to the report.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  last year used “unorthodox”
measures to balance a campaign pledge to end austerity and make
up for revenue lost due to tax cuts. The measures included the
effective nationalization of private pension fund assets and
special taxes on the energy, finance, retail and
telecommunication industries for at least three years.  As a result of these steps, Hungary’s underlying fiscal
position “deteriorated significantly,” according to the
report.  Hungary risks breaching the EU’s deficit threshold in 2012
unless it implements further budget measures and may not reach
its longer term goal for a 1.5 percent gap because no structural
adjustment is planned beyond 2013, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  