-- 
Tuscany Seeks Ruling to Annul Swap Contracts With Bank of America, UBS

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-07T11:59:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/tuscany-seeks-ruling-to-annul-swaps-with-banks-including-bofa.html
The region of Tuscany is seeking an
Italian court’s permission to annul derivative contracts with
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , saying they
violated Italy’s municipal financing rules.  Tuscany, with a population of 3.7 million, estimates the
swap contracts hid at least 5 million euros ($7.3 million) of
costs, according to a statement posted on the region’s website
late yesterday. The municipality said it plans to continue
making payments under the contracts.  The move to annul the swaps follows lawsuits by the three
banks and New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which have filed
claims against the region at the High Court in London, documents
showed. In court papers filed in December, Bank of America’s
Merrill Lynch asked that, even if the transaction were ruled
void, the issue of payment recovery be decided under  English
law .  Dozens of disputes are emerging between local governments
in Germany and Italy and the banks that created swap deals for
them. While municipalities are increasingly filing suits at
home, claiming they weren’t properly advised of risks or that
swaps were unlawfully settled, banks are turning to U.K. courts
where they expect to get swifter rulings.  UBS and Deutsche Bank spokesmen declined to comment, while
officials at Bank of America and JPMorgan had no immediate
comment.  Tuscany, in documents filed June 1 at the London court,
said the transaction with Merrill was unlawful because some
requirements weren’t met. Because the transaction is void,
lawyers for Tuscany argued that Merrill should return all the
money paid by the municipality -- about 21.1 million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net 
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  