-- 
HMV Announces Refinancing Plan That Gives Lenders Shares

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-06-07T15:38:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/hmv-announces-refinancing-accord-that-could-give-lenders-shares-worth-5-.html
HMV Group Plc (HMV) , the U.K.’s biggest CD
and DVD retailer, said it agreed a two-year, 220 million-pound
($360 million) refinancing plan that will allow lenders to take
a 5 percent share of the company.  The lenders will be granted warrants in HMV in an agreement
that provides “financial stability,” the Maidenhead, England-
based company said in a statement on Regulatory News Service.  HMV agreed last month to sell its Waterstone’s bookshop
chain to Russian billionaire  Alexander Mamut  to satisfy bankers
over a July 2 debt covenant deadline. Net debt at the April
year-end was 170 million pounds, or almost four times HMV’s
market value.  “While a positive event in terms of providing stability
and allowing management focus to return to operations, we fear
this is an interim pause before the next step down,” wrote John Stevenson, an analyst with Peel Hunt who has a “hold” rating
on the stock.  Fees are structured to provide an incentive for early
repayment, so HMV may struggle to earn enough to repay in time,
he said.  An exit fee equal to 5 percent a year grows to 8 percent on
April 1, 2012, and 14 percent on Jan. 1, 2013, if the 90
million-pound term loan B isn’t repaid, according to the
statement. Additionally, HMV may not pay a dividend while this
loan tranche is outstanding.  Bank Lenders  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
are participating in the plan, according to two people familiar
with the deal who declined to be identified because the terms
aren’t public. Sky News yesterday said  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  also
arranged the financing. Santander spokesman Peter Greiff did not
immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  The financing is split between two term loans of 70 million
pounds and 90 million pounds, and a 60 million-pound revolving
credit facility, HMV said. All are due to mature in September
2013 and pay interest of 4 percent more than the London
interbank offered rate.  HMV fell as much as 16 percent. It closed 1.75 pence, or 14
percent, lower at 10.5 pence at 4:30 p.m. in  London . The shares
have dropped 67 percent so far this year, giving the company a
market value of 45 million pounds.  Yesterday HMV rose the most since it held an initial public
offering in May 2002 after the Sunday Times said the refinancing
agreement was close.  Interest Charges  Nick Bubb , an analyst with Arden Partners, said higher
interest charges may wipe out any earnings before interest and
tax this fiscal year. Current trading “remains very poor,” he
wrote in a note to investors. He has a “reduce” recommendation
on the company.  HMV said today its business hasn’t changed from May 20,
when it said sales at stores open at least a year dropped 12
percent in the 17 weeks ended April 30, excluding live music
revenue. Sales at HMV outlets declined more than those at
Waterstone’s book outlets.  HMV is seeking to focus on live music and digital sales to
counter the drop in CD and DVD revenue. It’s also trying to sell
more devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPods and iPads in stores.  “We are very pleased to have concluded the new bank
facility, which represents another important milestone in
securing the financial stability of the group,” Chief Executive
Officer Simon Fox said in the statement.  The revised plan, through Sept. 30, 2013, replaces an
existing 240 million-pound funding arrangement, the company
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  