-- 
Vegetable Oil Prices May Gain on Increased Demand for Biodiesel

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-07T13:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/vegetable-oil-prices-may-gain-on-increased-demand-for-biodiesel.html
Increased demand for vegetable oils
to make biodiesel will lead to shortages of the materials,
raising the cost of fats used to make food, Oil World said.  Argentina  is expected to produce 2.3 million metric tons of
biodiesel, made from soybeans, this year, up 27 percent from
2010, Oil World said in a report today. Exports may total 1.5
million tons, according to the report. In  Brazil , biodiesel
output may gain 14 percent, Oil World said.  “The available global supplies of vegetable oils and
animal fats are insufficient to satisfy all the requirements of
the energy sector without jeopardizing satisfaction of demand
for food,” Oil World said. “This is going to be a supportive
factor for oils and fats prices.”  Argentina’s soybean oil exports rose 100,000 tons to
1.2 million tons from January through April, partly because of
rising requirements for biodiesel production, Oil World said.
Indonesian production of the biofuel may rise to at least
800,000 tons by the end of 2011, most of which will be exported
to the European Union, according to the report.  “Accelerating usage of vegetable oils for biodiesel could
create scarcity and appreciating food oil prices later this
year, unless policy-makers start fine-tuning their policies of
biofuel-usage mandates,” Oil World said.  China will buy more vegetable oils after domestic stocks
fell 800,000 tons in the past 12 months, Oil World said.
Chinese imports may increase 20 percent to 3 million tons
from July through September as palm oil and soy oil purchases
rise, according to the report.  “There are several indications that world production will
not rise sufficiently during the remainder of this year to
satisfy global demand for food and for oleochemical usage as
well as for the energy sector,” Oil World said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 