-- 
Venezuela 250% Port Fee Increase May Accelerate World’s Fastest Inflation

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-06-07T17:56:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/venezuela-250-port-fee-increase-may-accelerate-world-s-fastest-inflation.html
Venezuela  boosted tariffs and levies
at its seaports for the first time since nationalizing them in
2009, a move that may accelerate the world’s fastest inflation.  The government set a single rate for services in all ports
in order to improve and promote port activity, according to a
resolution published today in the Official Gazette. Prices at
Puerto Cabello, the country’s largest, will rise an average of
250 percent, according to the port’s chamber of commerce.  Venezuela, which imports about 70 percent of its food
needs, may see “spiraling inflation” as a result of the price
adjustments, the chamber said in  a report  published on its
website. Monthly inflation accelerated 2.5 percent in May from
April and 22.8 percent from a year earlier, according to the
central bank.  “These tariffs will have an impact on the Venezuelan
economy through the effect they will have on the final cost of
imported products for the consumer,” the chamber said.  The cost for a ship to land and dock for 12 hours with a
cargo weighing up to 6,300 tons rose 365 percent, to $1,485,
according to the chamber’s calculations, based on prices
published in the Gazette. The cost of storing a 40-foot empty
container in a dock rose 333 percent, to $20 from $6, according
to the chamber’s calculations.  The new prices will take effect June 24.  Inflation Rate  The government, by raising port fees to better reflect
costs, is making it a priority to have sufficient goods on
shelves rather than fighting inflation ahead of elections next
year, said  Boris Segura , Latin America analyst at Nomura
Securities International. While the government may absorb the
higher fees for its own imports, price adjustments will be
passed on to consumers for goods imported by the private sector,
he said.  “In the case of the private sector, profit margins have
been squeezed so it’s doubtful that private importers are going
to swallow those increased costs,” Segura said in a phone
interview from  New York .  Venezuela nationalized all the country’s seaports and
airports in June 2009, creating a new organization to oversee
them that is run in co-operation with Cuban advisers.  Prior to the nationalization, private companies that
handled loading and unloading set their own prices at ports
which were administered by local governments. Some had not been
adjusted since 1995, said Jose Sabatino, a director at the
Puerto Cabello Chamber of Commerce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  