-- 
Vestas Competes With Enercon, Nordex for Turkey Wind-Power Sales

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-06-07T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/vestas-competes-with-enercon-nordex-for-turkey-wind-power-sales.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s
largest wind-turbine maker, will compete with Enercon GmbH and
 Nordex SE (NDX1)  for market share in Turkey as the government awards
more wind-power licenses, said Mehmet Ali Neyzi of Vestas.  “Vestas is the biggest wind turbine supplier in Turkey
with about 30 percent market share,” Neyzi, managing director
in charge of Turkey and the  Middle East  for the Randers,
Denmark-based company, said in an interview. “Now that the
government has paved the way for new licenses after a suspension
period, competition has started to increase and we want to keep
our market share, though some minor fall is possible.”  A new law guarantees the government will purchase wind and
hydro power for 7.3 U.S. cents per kilowatt hour, and there are
additional incentives planned for using locally made equipment,
potentially adding 0.4 cents to 2.4 cents to the guaranteed
price for five years. This is attracting investment after three
years of lull, Neyzi said. Purchase prices for wind power in
 Europe  are about 9 euro cents (13.15 U.S. cents), he said.  Turkey, which has 50,475 megawatts of total power capacity
including 1,406 megawatts from wind, received wind-power license
applications for about 80,000 megawatts in 2007. State power
transmission utility Teias started auctions in February to award
licenses for 8,000 megawatts of wind power and has awarded
licenses for about half that total, according to the Teias
 website . The government aims for 20,000 megawatts of wind power
by 2020, about one-quarter of total capacity.  Increasing Demand  Vestas also competes with  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Siemens
AG (SIE)  to supply wind power equipment in Turkey, Neyzi said. Enercon
and Nordex are its biggest rivals in the sector, he said.  Turkey wants to increase hydroelectric, wind and solar
power to cut dependence on gas from Iran and  Russia  and meet
increasing power demand that Neyzi estimates is growing 6
percent to 8 percent annually.  “We urgently need the secondary legislation to be passed”
to provide the additional incentives for using locally produced
wind-power equipment, Neyzi said.  “Wind equipment prices fell about 20 percent from 2008 and
this will help the government to reach its wind-power capacity
target,” Neyzi said. Vestas is delivering orders within six to
eight months, compared with about two years before the financial
crisis hit global demand in 2008, he said.  Production in Turkey  Vestas, which has manufacturing plants in  Spain ,  Italy ,
 Germany  and Denmark, is studying options to build blades and
nacelle casings in Turkey, Neyzi said. “Turkey can be a good
manufacturing location with its logistics advantages and quality
workforce,” he said.  If Vestas builds its own blades in Turkey, it will do so
through its wholly owned local unit, Neyzi said. Vestas has a
Turkish subcontractor in western Bursa province that builds
turbine towers, he said.  GE, which aims to expand its Turkish energy business, may
revive a plan developed before the 2008 credit crisis to build
 wind turbines  in Turkey, Mete Maltepe, head of GE’s local energy
units said in an interview Nov. 10.  Vestas is working with  Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii (AKSA)  AS, a
Turkish maker of acrylic and carbon fibers, to procure carbon
fibers for its wind turbine blades, Neyzi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  