-- 
Viadeo May Decide on Share Sale ‘Soon,’ Cement Lead Over LinkedIn in China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-07T07:39:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/viadeo-may-decide-on-share-sale-soon-cement-lead-over-linkedin-in-china.html
Viadeo Group, owner of  China ’s
largest online networking site for professionals, said it may
sell shares to the public “soon” to help fend off any
challenge in China from bigger global rival LinkedIn Corp.  Viadeo started discussions with bankers earlier this year
and will probably decide whether to do an initial public
offering in the next month, Derek Ling, chief executive officer
of the Paris-based group’s Chinese site, Tianji.com, said in an
interview at his office in Beijing today.  Tianji plans to boost users to 10 million this year, from 6
million currently, partly by opening the site to applications
from outside developers and adding community-building features,
Ling said. LinkedIn has estimated the target market in China at
100 million professionals, while it has yet to create a Chinese-
language service.  “We are the clear, dominant leader in China already,”
Ling, 47, said. “China is our market to lose.” He declined to
estimate the size of a Viadeo share sale or to disclose Tianji’s
financial performance.  The world’s fastest growing major economy and biggest
Internet market with 477 million Web users, may become Viadeo’s
largest revenue contributor, Ling said, without providing a
timeframe.  Viadeo says it has 35 million users worldwide, the largest
after  Mountain View , California-based LinkedIn, which has about
100 million and got about 27 percent of its sales from outside
the U.S. last year.  LinkedIn Unblocked  LinkedIn, unique among the largest U.S. social networking
sites, isn’t currently blocked by the Chinese government, which
restricts access to Facebook Inc., Twitter Inc. and  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube. LinkedIn’s service was disrupted in China for
more than 24 hours Feb. 24-25 after user postings supported
calls for protests in the Asian nation.  China bans pornography, gambling and content critical of
the ruling Communist Party.  Ling set up Tianji in 2005 and sold it to Viadeo in 2008,
staying on as chief executive of the China site, he said. He now
reports directly to Viadeo Chief Executive Officer Dan Serfaty.  China is on the cusp of “explosive growth” in social
networking by professionals, who have yet to make much use of
the Internet for business, Ling said. The Internet has primarily
been youth-oriented for entertainment in China, and that is
beginning to change, he said.  Subscription Revenue  Viadeo as a group gets more than 50 percent of its revenue
from subscriptions, Ling said. The China site Tianji.com has
begun efforts to generate revenue this year through advertising
and recruiting, he said. The China site will begin using premium
subscriptions to generate sales next year, he said. About 15
percent of Tianji’s users are “active” in that they log in at
least twice a month, Ling said.  Tianji’s brand, intellectual property and Internet content
provider license in China are held by a local Chinese partner,
Ling said, refusing to identify that partner. Ling said he was
born in  Hong Kong , raised in China and educated in the U.S. and
holds citizenship in Hong Kong and the U.S.  LinkedIn raised $352.8 million in its May 18 initial public
offering and underwriters two days later exercised an
overallotment option for more shares that boosted the offering
to $405.7 million.  LinkedIn is now available in languages including English,
French, German, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish. Members can
also create individual profiles in at least 41 languages,
including Chinese.  “Given where the market is and the appetite for social
media, we’ve been approached by many bankers,” Ling said. “We
might decide to go soon. It’s likely in the next month we will
make a decision.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  