-- 
Virgin Australia Parent Rises Most in Month on Singapore Air Sales Accord

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-06-07T08:15:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/virgin-australia-parent-rises-most-in-month-on-singapore-air-sales-accord.html
Virgin  Australia ’s parent rose the
most in almost a month in Sydney trading after announcing a tie-
up with  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , bolstering efforts to win
business flyers from  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)   Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. (VBA)  climbed 3.5 percent to 29.5 cents
at the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney, the most since May
9. Qantas, Australia’s largest carrier, fell 1.3 percent to
A$1.93, its fourth straight day of losses.  Singapore Air and Virgin Australia will coordinate
schedules and sell each others’ tickets under the accord, which
adds about 70 destinations to the Brisbane-based carrier’s
network, the companies said today. Virgin Australia has also
signed deals with  Air New Zealand Ltd. (AIR) , Etihad Airways and Delta
Air Lines Inc. as it tries to double its share of Australia’s
business-travel market to 20 percent.  “It’s a huge step forward for us and it really does
complete our alliance strategy,” John Borghetti, Virgin Blue’s
chief executive officer, told reporters in  Singapore  today.
“The whole point of the alliance is making us more competitive
in Australia.”  Additional Destinations  The agreement will also give Singapore Air access to about
30 additional destinations through Virgin Australia’s network,
the airlines said in a statement. That will bolster the
Singaporean carrier’s sales presence in Australia, where
commodity exports and economic growth are stoking travel.  Singapore Air dropped 0.4 percent to S$14.08 as of 4:12
p.m. in the city-state. It’s declined 8 percent this year.  The carriers expect the alliance to take effect this year,
subject to regulatory approval, according to the statement.  Virgin Australia, the nation’s second-biggest carrier, in
May unveiled a new name, livery and cabins as it shed the last
remnants of a low-cost identity to help win business-class
travelers. Parent Virgin Blue still retains the old brand name.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  