-- 
Wall Street Probe Illustrates Clout of Levin’s Senate Investigative Panel

-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-06-07T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/wall-street-probe-illustrates-clout-of-levin-s-senate-committee.html
When U.S. Senator  Carl Levin  declared
that  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  “clearly misled their clients and
misled the Congress,” few analysts predicted his allegations
would still be reverberating two months later.  The firm’s shares have fallen 16 percent in New York trading
since April 13, when Levin’s investigative panel released an
exhaustive report on the roots of the 2008 economic meltdown. The
Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission are
examining the findings. The Manhattan District Attorney last week
joined in with a subpoena to Goldman Sachs.  The bank stuck to muted criticism of the Levin report until
yesterday, when people briefed on Goldman Sachs’s strategy said
the firm was considering preparing its own document to refute
the Senate report’s contention it held a “big short” against
the housing market while marketing mortgage-backed securities.  The impact of the two-year inquiry is only the latest
illustration of the clout of Levin and his  Permanent
Subcommittee  on Investigations. The Michigan Democrat, who’s
headed the panel on and off for a total of six years since 2001,
has helped fuel legislative and court action with his focus on
issues including sham accounting at Enron Corp., credit-card
rules, money-laundering and tax shelters for the wealthy  The subcommittee is “not just overturning some rocks,”
Levin, 76, said during a recent interview in his Washington
office. “Success is when we lead to reforms or lead to justice
and accountability.”  Aiding Dodd-Frank  On Levin’s terms, the panel has succeeded, whether or not
regulators and law-enforcement agencies move against Goldman
Sachs or others named in the report. At hearings in 2010, Levin
deployed e-mails and documents obtained by his investigators as
he grilled Goldman Sachs’s leaders, including Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein . The publicity helped get the
Dodd-Frank bill through the Senate, Levin said.  Goldman Sachs is taking on a panel whose structure and
history contribute to a record of successful investigations that
may be unparalleled among congressional committees. The staff
and Levin take pride in being meticulous. As a  permanent fixture 
in a chamber whose members only have to run for office every six
years, the panel has the resources and the appetite for spending
months or years issuing subpoenas, interviewing witnesses and
poring over documents.  The work of the subcommittee also stands out in a town
where investigations and white papers often dissolve into
partisan strife. By a tradition unique in Congress, the minority
party’s staff is involved throughout the inquiry. Members from
both parties tend to stick together when presenting conclusions.  Calls to Coburn  The subcommittee’s unusual level of bipartisanship helps
explain the position of Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma , the
ranking Republican, when the panel issued its findings. After
the press conference, at which Coburn also lauded the report,
his office began fielding phone calls on behalf of Goldman
Sachs, according to two people briefed on the bank’s response.
The callers asked Coburn to disavow Levin’s plan to send the
report to authorities.  Coburn didn’t contradict Levin. Instead, within two weeks,
he joined the Democrat in formally referring the 639-page
document to the  Justice Department  and Securities and Exchange
Commission.  “Facts are facts,” Coburn said in an interview.  The facts are unearthed in a cluttered set of rooms on the
ground floor of the white marble Russell Senate Office Building,
where the panel known as PSI has been headquartered since then-
chairman Senator Joseph R. McCarthy carried out his discredited
1950s hunt for communists in the government.  Ironically, the Wisconsin Republican laid the foundation
for today’s bipartisanship -- after his abuses Democrats
demanded rules that allowed the panel’s minority to participate
fully in its work.  Interview Room  About two dozen people make up the subcommittee’s staff,
including lawyers, law clerks, interns and employees borrowed
from other government agencies. Interviews with witnesses,
whether bank executives or representatives of foreign dictators,
can last for eight hours, held in a cramped subterranean room
with a window that gives on a stone retaining wall.  “PSI is known and perceived as not a committee that you
mess around with,” said Lance Cole, a law professor at
 Pennsylvania State University  and author of a book on
congressional investigations.  Cole said the impact of the panel’s work stands in contrast
to the separate Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission set up by
Congress in 2009 and headed by former California Treasurer  Phil Angelides . The group was riven by bickering and ended up
publishing dueling reports by Democrats and Republicans.  It’s Complicated  In choosing topics to investigate, Levin prefers a
challenge, said staff director and general counsel Elise Bean.  “Levin has said to us, ‘If it’s not complicated, I don’t
want to do it,’ ” said Bean, who has worked for Levin since
1985.  Levin’s views were shaped by an upbringing in a politically
engaged family in  Detroit . His uncle was a judge; his father, a
lawyer for the Michigan Corrections Commission. Levin’s older
brother, Sander, has been a U.S. congressman representing
Detroit’s northern suburbs since 1986.  The younger Levin went to  Harvard Law School  and then
served as the general counsel for Michigan’s Civil Rights
Commission. He served nine years on the Detroit City Council
before running for Senate in 1978. He said he’s drawn to finance
investigations for the same reason he was interested in civil
rights: “a sense of a just society and the rich and the
powerful being treated the same as everybody else.”  Wonky Celebrity  Levin, who also leads the Armed Services Committee, enjoys
a certain wonky celebrity after so many years in the Senate. His
unkempt hairstyle and habit of staring down his nose through his
glasses have led comedian  Jon Stewart  to describe him as “a
kindly old shoemaker” and “Grandpa Munster.”  Though his hearings are choreographed for maximum political
impact, he’s also been known to hide from the spotlight.  On the night President Obama announced that Osama bin Laden
had been killed by U.S. forces, Levin stopped by the White House
with his wife of 50 years, Barbara, to take in the impromptu
celebration outside the gates. In an attempt at anonymity, he
took off his glasses, he later told reporters.  That didn’t work. “It suddenly dawned on me that I had
seen that man’s face before on the news,” said Alexander
Martone, 22, a consumer advocate who works at a nonprofit
foundation in  Washington . He had a friend take his picture with
the senator that evening.  Choosing Goldman  The two-year financial-crisis inquiry was the
subcommittee’s longest probe under Levin. By the end, the staff
amassed 56 million pages of memos, documents, prospectuses and
e-mails, most of it on computer disks. Levin said he chose not
to publicize the number for fear that no one would believe it.  Following their usual method, the senator and his staff
would read voraciously and hold long discussions searching for
case studies that would best highlight the issues.  “He really respects people who push back,” said Robert Roach, the subcommittee’s lead investigator. “It’s not like
he’s sitting there saying, ‘My mind’s made up. Don’t confuse me
with the facts.’ ”  Eventually, they decided to conduct case studies on Goldman
Sachs and Deutsche Bank AG while also looking into the failure
of  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , federal regulators and credit-rating
firms. Levin’s staff would load him down with binders as he
prepared for 14-hour flights to  Afghanistan  in his role on Armed
Services. The material would come back filled with notes.  Profane E-Mail  Toward the end of 2009, after about nine months of
investigation, Levin told the staff to accelerate their plans
for hearings, hoping the revelations would galvanize the public
and provide velocity to congressional negotiators wrangling over
the new package of financial regulatory rules. Four hearings
were scheduled for April 2010.  Just in time for the last hearing of the series, the April
27 session on Goldman Sachs, Levin’s staff discovered an
internal Goldman Sachs e-mail describing one of its own bond
offerings as “one shitty deal.”  Levin recited the profane message repeatedly as he grilled
Blankfein and his team. The footage rocketed through cable news
and the Web, stoking outrage at big banks. Within a day, Senate
Republicans halted a filibuster of Dodd-Frank.  “The key is, you’ve got to have the material,” Levin
said.  The Levin-Coburn panel’s final report accused Goldman Sachs
and Deutsche Bank AG of peddling collateralized debt obligations
backed by risky loans that the banks’ own traders believed were
likely to lose value. At a press conference, Levin also called
on federal prosecutors to review whether to bring perjury
charges against Blankfein and other current and former employees
who appeared at the hearing last year.  ‘Truthful and Accurate’  The bank said the testimony was “truthful and accurate”
and that its employees never misled anyone. Analysts said at the
time it was unlikely the subcommittee’s findings would lead to
new claims or charges, because Goldman Sachs had already paid
$550 million last year to settle SEC claims related to CDOs.  “The Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations issued a
report and we take into account all of it and we disagree with
some of it,” Blankfein said at the firm’s May 6 annual meeting.
He added that the company, which released a list of 39
recommendations in January aimed at reforming the bank’s
business practices, is trying to learn from the report.  After Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.
subpoenaed Goldman Sachs last week, the bank signaled it would
harden the tone of its response to Levin. It has prepared
documentation to argue that descriptions of Goldman Sachs’s
market positions in the report are inaccurate, the person
briefed on the bank’s strategy said yesterday. The bank’s
strategy was reported earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  Offset Position  While the bank was betting that the value of some subprime
mortgages would decline, those bets were largely used to offset
its overall mortgage position, the person said. For example,
while the Levin report found that one part of the bank’s
mortgage business had $3.7 billion in revenue by shorting
subprime, that was offset by other trades. The firm’s mortgage
division made less than $500 million in 2007, the person said.  The subcommittee’s report said it factored in the losses
caused when some trading desks took long positions and
calculated that Goldman Sachs’s mortgage division had an overall
profit of $1.2 billion in 2007.  Market Expertise  In an interview last week, Mark A. Calabria, a former
member of the Republican staff of the Senate Banking Committee,
said he wondered if the Levin panel might have mischaracterized
some of the transactions.  “I would have a concern that the lack of financial market
expertise on the subcommittee gets reflected in how you’d want
to spin this,” said Calabria, who now directs regulation
studies at the  Cato Institute , a research organization that
supports limited government. “Things that look mischievous may
have some common-sense functions.”  Levin and the subcommittee staff declined yesterday to
comment further on the matter.  While it’s an open question whether the SEC, Justice
Department or New York authorities will follow the
subcommittee’s report with civil or criminal allegations, it
wouldn’t be the first time the panel’s efforts have led to
prosecutions.  Daniel Boyle, Enron’s vice president of global finance, was
sentenced to almost four years in prison in 2005, in part for
his role in a sham transaction that inflated earnings and in
part for lying under oath to the PSI about it. Thirteen
executives at accounting firm KPMG LLC were indicted on criminal
fraud charges in 2005 for helping wealthy clients evade taxes,
according to subcommittee staff.  Next Investigation  The staff is already at work on its next investigation: a
look at the role of speculation in crude  oil prices , a topic
that the subcommittee has been following for several years.  As always, much of the work will be done in a room that
displays a black-and-white photograph of Joseph McCarthy with
his general counsel, Roy Cohn.  The McCarthy photo was hung by Raymond V. Shepherd, the
subcommittee’s staff director from 2003 through 2005 when
Senator Norm Coleman, a Minnesota Republican, was in charge.  Shepherd, now a partner at Venable LLP in Washington, said
he put it up as a warning to members of the investigative unit.  “It stands as a stark reminder of how bad partisanship can
be,” Shepherd said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Clea Benson in
Washington at   cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  