-- 
Wheat Falls as Southern U.S. Great Plains Harvest Accelerates

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-06-07T19:44:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/wheat-falls-as-southern-u-s-great-plains-harvest-accelerates.html
Wheat futures fell to a three-week
low on speculation that yields may be better than expected in
the southern Great Plains of the U.S. as farmers step up the
harvest of crops planted last year.  About 10 percent of the winter-wheat crop was  harvested  as
of June 5, more than the 6 percent average in the previous five
years, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said yesterday.
Central  Kansas  hasn’t been as dry as areas further south and
west, boosting prospects for output, said Darrell Holaday, the
president of Advanced Market Concepts in  Manhattan , Kansas.  “The yields in northern  Oklahoma  and central Kansas are
coming in better than anticipated, and I think that’s spooking
the market a little bit,” Holaday said “Central Kansas
continues to show some promise. The southwest will be as bad as
everybody thought, maybe worse, but you can add a lot of bushels
in other parts of the state.”  Wheat futures for July delivery dropped 10.25 cents, or 1.4
percent, to settle at $7.3375 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Earlier, the price touched $7.3125, the
lowest for a most-active contract since May 16. The grain has
jumped 70 percent in the past year as adverse weather threatened
production in the U.S.,  Europe  and  China .  On the Kansas City Board of Trade, wheat futures for July
delivery dropped 15.5 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $8.745 a bushel.
Yesterday, the price declined 2.7 percent. The commodity has
surged 89 percent in the past 12 months.  Winter wheat is planted in the Great Plains and Midwest
starting in September, goes dormant until March and is typically
harvested beginning in June.  Mature Crops  In Kansas, the largest U.S. grower behind  North Dakota , 11
percent of crops were  mature , ahead of the five-year average of
6 percent, the USDA said yesterday. Parts of southern and
western Kansas had less than half of the normal amount of rain
in the past 60 days, according to the  National Weather Service .  Farmers  in south-central Kansas have begun “one of the
earliest wheat harvests in recent memory,” Kansas Wheat, a
trade group, said in a statement yesterday. Crops near the
Oklahoma border in Kiowa, Kansas, were reported “better than
expected,” the Manhattan, Kansas-based organization said.  “Harvest usually pressures the market this time of year,”
said  Larry Glenn , an analyst at Frontier Ag in Quinter, Kansas.
“In the southern part of Kansas, they’re starting to get the
combines rolling.”  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $13
billion in 2010, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government
figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  