-- 
Wheat Futures Advance as Rains May Be Too Late for Damaged European Crop

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-06-07T07:05:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/wheat-futures-advance-as-rains-may-be-too-late-for-damaged-european-crop.html
Wheat may gain as almost half of the
U.S. winter crop remained in poor condition, while rains in
 France ,  Germany  and the U.K., the European Union’s largest
shippers, may already be too late to reverse crop damage.  The July-delivery contract rose as much as 0.4 percent to
$7.47 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade before trading
little changed at $7.4375 at 3:03 p.m. Singapore time.  About 44 percent of the U.S. winter-wheat crop was rated
poor to very poor as of June 5, unchanged from a week earlier,
and up from 9 percent a year ago, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said yesterday. The winter crops probably were
irreparably harmed by the driest weather in 50 years in France,
the hottest spring in 352 years in  England  and dry weather in
central Germany, Telvent DTN Inc. said yesterday.  “The recent weather has been far from ideal with drought
in  Europe , drought in the U.S. Great Plains and floods in the
northern U.S. wheat-belt hurting yield prospects,”  Luke Mathews ,
a commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of  Australia  said in
a report today. “Current wheat prices suggest existing
production forecasts are overstated and will be revised lower in
the coming months.”  Much of France and western Germany has received up to 1.5
inches (3.8 centimeters) of rain in the past two days and the
area may have more storms over the next two weeks, said  Allen Motew , a meteorologist with QT Weather in  Chicago . France, the
world’s largest exporter after the U.S. last year, had its
driest March-to-May period in half a century, forecaster France
Meteo said. The country begins its harvest in July.  Dry France  The weather has been so dry in France that livestock
producers are having trouble finding enough grain to feed their
animals as plants wither, Bruno Lemaire, the country’s
agriculture minister, said at a meeting in  Washington  on June 3.  About 79 percent of the U.S. spring wheat was planted as of
June 5, compared with 97 percent for the same period last year,
and the past five-year average of 98 percent, the USDA said
yesterday. Planting has been delayed as excessive rainfall in
the northern plains made fields too muddy for farm machinery.  Corn for July delivery advanced 0.2 percent to $7.3375 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. Soybeans for delivery in
the same month gained 0.5 percent to $13.90 per bushel.  Warmer, drier weather in most of the U.S. last week allowed
farmers to accelerate delayed corn and soybean planting and gave
a boost to crops stunted by cold, wet conditions earlier in May,
the government said.  About 94 percent of the corn crop was planted as of June 5,
up from 86 percent a week earlier and 99 percent a year earlier,
the USDA said yesterday in a report. The prior five-year average
was 98 percent. An estimated 68 percent of the soybean crop was
sown, up from 51 percent a week earlier and 82 for the previous
five years, on average.  “Recently improved planting weather in the U.S.” helped
push corn prices lower, Commonwealth Bank’s Mathews said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  