-- 
When Social Networks Become Tools of Oppression: Jillian C. York

-- B y   J i l l i a n   C .   Y o r k
-- 
2011-06-07T04:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/when-social-networks-become-tools-of-oppression-jillian-c-york.html
When Syria’s government unblocked
Facebook, YouTube and Blogspot in February, many activists saw
the move as an overture to protesters, possibly one offering a
semblance of the freedoms won by insurgents in Egypt and
 Tunisia .  Others saw it as a potential means of surveillance. They
were right: Within weeks, reports began to emerge from detained
Syrian activists who said that authorities had demanded their
Facebook passwords. Others inside the country noted that their
friends’ Facebook walls had been compromised and now contained
pro-regime sentiment.  On Twitter, Syrian protesters have noted the emergence of
pro-regime “spambots”: accounts set up with automated feeds
that post benign content, including links to attractive
photographs of Syrian landscapes, to the hashtag used by
protesters and supporters, presumably to flood it with
contradictory information. Activists believe the bots have been
created by regime supporters, paid or otherwise.  The potential for authorities to use tools like Twitter and
Facebook to track down insurgents is very real. Many
demonstrators chose early on not to hide their identities,
emboldened by the success of  Egypt ’s mostly peaceful
uprising. When coupled with Facebook’s requirement that users
create profiles using their real names, pro-democracy activists
are at risk of being unmasked on social networks.  As writer Evgeny Morozov has argued, the Internet can be as
much a tool of repression and control as of liberation. As
Morozov writes in his 2011 book, “The Net Delusion,” Belarus
authorities have used Facebook to monitor its citizens, assuming
they’ll share plenty of personal information on the social
network.  Upper Hand  In  Iran , despite news media proclamations of a “Twitter
revolution,” the regime had the technological upper hand, not
only censoring websites but harnessing the widespread use of
social media tools to their advantage to track down activists.  That  Syria  would pursue a digital crackdown seems
inevitable. What’s less clear is the technology that companies
and governments are -- or could be -- adopting to mitigate
technological repression.  In January, when Tunisians uploaded videos of street
protests to Facebook to share with the world, authorities
modified Facebook landing pages, inserting extra code and
redirecting Tunisian users to a different page in order to
capture their passwords. Facebook responded favorably, adding
additional security measures for Tunisian users, including
routing all requests for  http://facebook.com  to
https://facebook.com, a more secure login page for the site.
Later, Facebook offered an opt-in HTTPS version of the site to
users everywhere.  Alarm Sounded  In this case, Facebook acted after Tunisian activists and
non-governmental organizations sounded alarms. In another case
in 2009, the U.S.  State Department  called upon Twitter to halt a
site update during a crucial time for Iranian protesters. Though
the move allowed activists to continue using Twitter during a
time of day when protests were prevalent, the State Department’s
request also provided fodder to the Iranian regime to blame the
protests on foreign interference.  While those efforts were helpful, governments and Internet
companies could do more. Facebook, for example, could prompt
Syrian users to create new passwords and to stop using old ones
that may have been compromised. That is a low-cost measure, but
even it has potential drawbacks. Some detained Syrians have
recently reported that authorities threatened to hurt their
families if they changed their passwords.  No Pseudonyms  Sometimes a company’s policies are the problem. Facebook
removes users caught with pseudonyms from the site. When a
person using his real name finds his account erroneously
removed, Facebook requires proof of identification via e-mail, a
move that presents risks for users in authoritarian states.  The U.S. is one of the few countries actively promoting an
Internet freedom agenda. As a recent paper from the  Center for a
New American Security  points out, this agenda, which includes
pushing U.S. companies to create policies oriented toward free
expression, would be strengthened by collaboration with other
democratic governments. A new strategy released by the White
House in May, the International Strategy for Cyberspace, calls
for such cross-border partnerships.  By forming a coalition, the U.S. could deflect concerns
that the initiative is a cover for its own geopolitical goals --
and remove the stigma some activists fear comes with accepting
money from any single government.  A Step Ahead  A coalition could also more quickly train experts and
supply tools to activists, helping them stay a step ahead of
repressive regimes looking to block their use of networks as
well as track, harass and arrest them. Broader government
participation would also allow for a wider exchange of
information and technology among activists from different
countries.  NGOs also have a role to play in ensuring the safety of
social media users. The  Global Network Initiative  has convened
human-rights groups, academics, investors and Internet
companies, including Google, Yahoo and Microsoft, in an effort
to advance free expression and privacy online. My organization,
the Electronic Frontier Foundation, is a participant.  Organizations can play other parts as well, distributing
tools like HTTPS Everywhere, which enforces HTTPS encryption on
major websites. The program was developed by the EFF and the Tor
Project, a global network of servers offering anonymous Web
surfing.  In the end, there is no single solution. Government
regulation is difficult to get right, and can harm the very
people it’s intended to help.  While companies are often at the
front lines, they need public scrutiny to stay in check and
ensure user privacy. Ultimately, the burden falls hardest on
users to stay vigilant and look out for themselves. Often, no
one else will.  (Jillian C. York, a blogger and activist, is director for
international freedom of expression at the Electronic Frontier
Foundation in  San Francisco . The opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jillian C. York at  jillian@eff.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  