-- 
Whistleblower Who Alleged Qatar World Cup Bribes Wanted FIFA’s Protection

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-07T10:52:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/whistleblower-who-alleged-qatar-world-cup-bribes-wanted-fifa-s-protection.html
Soccer’s governing body didn’t hear
allegations made by an ex-employee of Qatar’s World Cup bid
about bribes in the campaign for the 2022 event because the
worker made unacceptable demands, FIFA said.  The person had told the Sunday Times newspaper that the
Gulf state paid FIFA Vice President Issa Hayatou and Ivory Coast
official Jacques Anouma $1.5 million each to choose Qatar over
four other nations, including the U.S. Both men and Qatar, the
surprise winner, deny the allegations.  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter , who last week was voted into a
fourth four-year term after his Qatari challenger pulled out
amid separate bribery allegations, said May 19 that the Sunday
Times agreed to bring the whistleblower to FIFA’s Zurich
headquarters.  “Among others, the problems were that the whistleblower
gave no warranty for the accuracy and correctness of the
information he/she was providing, asked for the right to destroy
the information at any time and that the information he/she
provided not be made public,”  FIFA  said in an e-mailed response
to Bloomberg News. The person also asked for “an unlimited
witness protection program.”  FIFA has been forced to defend the choice of World Cup host
as well as other allegations in recent months. Corruption probes
had led to 10 of its 24-member executive body being suspended or
accused of improper behavior. Blatter in his election speech to
 FIFA’s  208-member associations acknowledged it was in “troubled
waters.” After 13 years as president he’s promised to root out
corruption and increase transparency.  ‘Bought’  World Cup   Blatter yesterday said he wouldn’t call for an
investigation into Qatar’s victory unless FIFA’s new Solutions
Committee or ethics body requests one. Last week, an e-mail from
FIFA’s General Secretary  Jerome Valcke  was published in which
the official said gas-rich Qatar “bought” the World Cup.
Valcke later said he meant the desert-state used all its
financial might in its lobbying efforts.  Qatar’s bid team has denied allegations of wrongdoing,
including a 1,700-word rebuttal to the claims in which it
described the allegations as “distressing, insulting and
incomprehensible.”  FIFA also said the whistleblower asked to be indemnified
“for any breaches of contract he/she would be sued for, for any
liabilities and for any potential criminal proceedings related
to the agreement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 