-- 
Schools Cut Ties to Chinese-Student Recruiters

-- B y   D a n i e l   G o l d e n
-- 
2011-06-07T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/two-connecticut-schools-cut-ties-to-chinese-student-recruiters.html
Two Connecticut high schools are
cutting ties with a company that recruits and houses Chinese
students after Bloomberg News reported that the business and its
agents in China feigned a connection to the  University of
Connecticut .  Woodstock Academy in Woodstock, where  American
International Student Centers  placed 14 foreign students for the
current academic year, will stop using the company as of July 1,
headmaster Kim Caron said in a phone interview. The Gilbert
School, in Winsted, expects to scrap a plan approved by its
board in April for the company to supply 20 international
students in 2012-2013, superintendent David Cressy said.  “The idea of bringing in international students still
appeals to us, but not with him,” Cressy said in a phone
interview, referring to Timothy Martin, the company’s founder.
The Bloomberg report “certainly opened my eyes.”  The moves by Woodstock and Gilbert reflect growing concerns
about the rush of U.S. high schools, colleges and businesses to
use commissioned agents to attract full-paying students from
 China . Such recruiters, whom families also pay thousands of
dollars to fill out applications and ghost-write essays, often
misrepresent or conceal their U.S. affiliations.  Martin’s Response  Several schools have expressed interest in working with
American International to boost their Chinese enrollment and
weren’t deterred by the Bloomberg report, Martin said in a
telephone interview.  “I stand by all my actions concerning the students,” Martin
wrote to Cressy in a May 29 letter obtained by Bloomberg.
“Because of the economic downturn in the U.S., a declining
enrollment in U.S. high schools and a huge demand in China for a
U.S. education, our business has been very well received and
done very well, growing in leaps and bounds.”  “We have had our ‘bumps in the road,’” and are “learning
from our mistakes,” Martin wrote.  The company, started last year by Martin in his Granby,
 Connecticut , home, relies on agents to recruit students in China
to attend U.S. high schools and colleges that lack their own
housing. The company and its agents steered two Chinese
students, Leon Lin and Li Rirong, to a University of Connecticut
branch campus in Torrington, comprising two buildings and 250
students, all of the rest from the U.S., Bloomberg reported May
23. The main campus is in Storrs.  Empty Inn  The students, who enrolled in January, each pay American
International Student Centers $22,200 a year to share a room in
an almost empty inn. The company also promised access to flight
training, equestrian lessons and river rafting, none of which
materialized.  “I am sorry if they were bored but at least we tried,”
Martin wrote to Cressy. “All the activities mentioned in our
brochure were within a 30-minute drive” and “they had no desire
to do any of them.”  An agency representing American International Student
Centers posed as the “China liaison office” for UConn at a
Beijing college fair in March, according to the May 23 article.  Lee Melvin,  UConn ’s vice president for enrollment planning
and management, warned American International Student Centers in
an Aug. 16 letter not to “imply a partnership which does not
exist,” after discovering that some of its marketing materials
promised “special consideration” for its recruits’ applications
and carried UConn’s seal.  Room and Board  Both  Woodstock  and  Gilbert  are private institutions that
serve as free public schools for the surrounding communities.
The students whom American International Student Centers
recruited to Woodstock pay $11,201 in out-of-district tuition
and $4,000 for English training. The company, which places them
with local families or rents housing for them, charges about
$25,000 for room and board.  Woodstock’s Caron became concerned about American
International Student Centers because Chinese parents complained
that the company wasn’t providing enough activities for their
children, he said in a telephone interview. The FBI called to
let him know that it was looking into the agency’s trademark
issues with UConn, he said.  Woodstock will manage housing for international students
itself, Caron said.  American International Student Centers recruited about 30
students to Woodstock for next year, Martin said.  “They continue to take customers that I sent them,” he
said. “Anybody I brought to them, they should either no longer
accept, or have me do the housing, or pay me to leave.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Golden in Boston at 
 dlgolden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  