-- 
World Food Prices Linger Near Record as Meat and Dairy Costs Gain, UN Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-07T13:39:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/world-food-prices-stay-near-record-as-meat-costs-increase-grains-decline.html
Global wheat production will lag
behind demand, helping to keep food prices high and volatile at
least through next year, the  United Nations ’ Food and
Agriculture Organization said.  Wheat output will rise 3.2 percent to 673.6 million metric
tons in the season starting in July, trailing demand of 677
million tons, the FAO said in a report on its website today.
Food prices stayed near record levels in May on higher meat and
dairy costs. Food imports will rise 21 percent to a record $1.29
trillion this year, the FAO said separately.  The FAO’s Food Price Index of 55 food commodities fell 1
percent to 232.4 points from 234.8 points in April, the FAO
said. The gauge was at an all-time high of 237.7 in February.  “The high-price situation is not something that’s just
going to vanish over one season,”  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior
economist at the Rome-based FAO, said in an interview before the
index was released. “The fundamentals are still what they are,
a very tight situation for almost all commodities.”  The FAO’s wheat price index averaged 242 over the first
five months of this year, 72 percent higher than the same period
last year, it said. Production will lag behind demand after
weather-related losses in  North America  and Europe curbed crop
prospects from the March forecast, the FAO said. Wheat
stockpiles will end the year below the 2010 level and drop
further by the end of the 2012 seasons to 183 million tons, the
FAO added.  More Than Double  Prices for staple foods including corn will more than
double in two decades unless action is taken, Oxfam
International said last week. World grain stocks will fall for a
second year by the end of June 2012, the International Grains
Council said May 26.  Output of coarse grains such as corn and barley will rise
3.9 percent to 1.165 million tons, about equal with demand. The
FAO’s corn index rose 82 percent this year through May.  The organization’s meat index climbed to an all-time high
in May, led by record beef and sheep prices and higher poultry
and pigmeat costs.  Agricultural-commodity price swings will persist in coming
years because of a mismatch between supply and demand, with food
prices expected to remain “high and volatile,” Hafez Ghanem,
assistant director-general at the FAO, said last month.  The “dangerous levels” of food prices had pushed about 44
million people into poverty since June 2010,  World Bank 
President Robert Zoellick said in February. Another 10 million
may join them should the UN food index rise another 10 percent,
the World Bank said April 16. The number of hungry people in the
world declined last year to 925 million from more than 1 billion
in 2009, according to the FAO.  Still Vulnerable  As prices stay high, “even countries that haven’t
experienced high inflation on the food side remain vulnerable,”
Abbassian said. “In general terms, the threat of higher
inflation might have subsided, but many countries still have to
catch up.”  The  European Central Bank  raised  interest rates  on April 7,
joining nations from  China  to  Sweden  that increased borrowing
costs this year in a bid to control inflation partly blamed on
food costs.  Egypt , where rising food prices helped spark
protests that led to February’s ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak , yesterday forecast “elevated” inflation.  Milk futures rose 0.8 percent in  Chicago  in May. Corn more
than doubled in the past 12 months in Chicago on speculation
that more planting in the U.S., the world’s largest grower, will
fail to rebuild global stocks. Wheat surged 72 percent as
flooding ruined crops in  Canada  and Australia and drought
reduced harvests in Russia and  Europe , and soybeans gained 49
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  