-- 
Yemenis Deserve Liberty but Fighting Terrorism Comes First: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-07T04:01:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/yemenis-deserve-liberty-but-fighting-against-terrorism-comes-first-view.html
A starkly undeveloped, rugged country
at the heel of the Arabian Peninsula, Yemen languished in
obscurity for years.  It’s amazing what a thriving branch of al-
Qaeda and a popular rebellion can do for a country’s name
recognition.  Now Yemen’s fate is of global importance, precisely
because, as a state on the verge of collapse, it is a haven for
terrorists.  It is vital that the U.S. and its allies respond
carefully to the unrest there.  After refusing for weeks to abide by a provision of an
agreement with Yemen’s opposition to pass power to his deputy,
President Ali Abdullah Saleh left this weekend for  Saudi Arabia 
to get treatment for wounds  sustained in a rocket attack on his
compound. It’s only temporary, Saleh’s spokesmen say, vowing
that once he is healthy he will return.  Saudi Arabia, the main power within the  Gulf Cooperation
Council , the club of Persian Gulf monarchies that brokered the
agreement and helps sustain Yemen with aid, wants stability and
is eager to see the terms of the deal honored.  Under the
accord, Saleh would get immunity, Vice President Abduraboo
Mansur Hadi would form a unity government, and presidential
elections would follow within two months.  The U.S. should encourage the Saudis, who now have unique
leverage, to persuade their visitor to respect the deal’s terms.  A formula as simple as the GCC accord cannot address the
myriad challenges facing Yemen, which outside of the capital
Sana’a is more a patchwork of tribes than a nation. And then
there is the all-important question of who might win the
presidential election. But the agreement is a start, at least,
toward addressing popular demands for change. The Obama
administration is right to support it.  Local Terrorist Branch  In the short term, it’s also reasonable for the
administration to take its lead from the Saudis on Yemen. Both
Washington and  Riyadh  have the same main interest there -- the
suppression of the Yemen-based al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula. Its goals include attacking the U.S., hitting Western
targets in Yemen, destabilizing Yemen’s government and killing
Saudi royals.  Saleh’s government has cooperated with U.S. counter-
terrorism efforts. It’s important that a successor follows suit.
Yemenis themselves have no love for al-Qaeda generally.  A poll
done for the  U.S. Broadcasting Board of Governors  found that 84
percent of Yemenis viewed al-Qaeda unfavorably.  The remaining 16 percent, of course, is a sufficient pool
for recruits and accomplices. That is one reason why, in the
long run, the U.S. must do more than insist that a future Yemeni
government polices terrorism. Even if it means displeasing the
Saudis, the U.S. should provide aid and expertise to encourage
liberty, economic development and justice in Yemen -- to promote
a society in which young men want to build families, homes and
careers rather than bombs.  One mustn’t be overly optimistic. Yemen has almost no civil
institutions. Its competing tribes are at risk of tearing the
country apart. Still, Yemenis deserve their own chance to
cultivate the flowers of the Arab Spring.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 