-- 
Nottage, Stroman Hailed as ‘Lilly’s’ Flout Broadway Boys’ Club

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-06-07T15:46:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-07/lynn-nottage-susan-stroman-hailed-as-lilly-s-flout-broadway-boy-s-club.html
After a Broadway season in which one
play out of 25 was written by a woman (Emma Rice, adapting Noel Coward’s “Brief Encounter”), accomplished females in theater
convened on a New York stage last night for honors of their own
devising, the second annual “ Lilly Awards .”  The festive ceremony at  Playwrights Horizons  called
attention to prominent women in the theater and to
discrimination that the statistics suggest still predominates.  “There was a time when I started when there were no
women,” director Susan Stroman, 56, said upon accepting her
Lilly, a medallion that’s worn around the neck. “Now it’s
feeling different.”  Other recipients included playwright  Lynn Nottage  (“By the
Way, Meet Vera Stark”), lyricist Lynn Ahrens (“Ragtime”) and
actress Elizabeth Marvel (“Other Desert Cities.”)  “This is the most joyful event of the year,” said
Nottage, who has won a  Pulitzer Prize  (for “Ruined”) and a
MacArthur ”genius” grant but not a  Tony Award , because she
hasn’t had a play on Broadway.  The awards were named for  Lillian Hellman , the playwright
and memoirist who died in 1984 at 79. Playwrights Theresa Rebeck, Julia Jordan and Marsha Norman created them and were
among those handing them out. Rebeck said that recipients were
selected by a secret committee that includes men.  Men Welcome  Men were invited to present, including Eric Bogosian, who
gave a Lilly to his wife, director Jo Bonney; and director
Michael Mayer, who awarded one to costume and set designer  Susan
Hilferty , with whom he collaborated on the musical “Spring
Awakening.”  “It’s so easy to get the guys to show up,” Rebeck said at
the after-party at the West Bank Cafe. “This isn’t girls
against the guys.”  But “calcification around gender issues,” Rebeck added,
has hindered women playwrights and is one reason why just a
third of the plays off-Broadway this season were by women.  She noted that artistic directors, many of them men, often
stay in their jobs for decades, helping to perpetuate the status
quo.  “New York is not like  London ,” she said. “The big
theaters there change artistic directors every eight or ten
years.”  Lynne Meadow, artistic director of the  Manhattan Theatre
Club  since 1972, received a lifetime achievement award, as did
playwright Ntozake Shange (“for colored girls who have
considered suicide/when the rainbow is enuf”).  “There is a long way to go,” Meadow said during the
ceremony, “before women are as visible as they are here
onstage.”  MTC has presented “Ruined” and multiple plays by John
Patrick Shanley, David Lindsay-Abaire and Terrence McNally.
Meadow said at least two of the six plays on her theater’s
roster next season are by women.  The lone male winner was Tim Sanford, artistic director of
 Playwrights Horizons , which this season presented acclaimed
plays by Bathsheba Doran and Amy Herzog, both of whom also got
Lillies.  “Our mission is to be inclusive of all voices,” Sanford
said in an interview after he was crowned with a tiara.  Julie Crosby, artistic director of the  Women’s Project , a
producing group, said the Lillies draw valuable attention to the
challenges of women in theater, particularly writers.  “People want to pick the playwright who they think will
sell,” she said. “Women aren’t as well-known, so the
perception is that they won’t sell as many tickets. We need to
break that cycle.”  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 