-- Aberdeen’s Andrew McMenigall, Toby Wallace Die Cycling in U.K.
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-07-03T14:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/aberdeen-s-andrew-mcmenigall-toby-wallace-die-cycling-in-u-k-.html
Andrew McMenigall and Toby Wallace,
two executives at  Aberdeen (ADN)  Asset Management Plc, were killed in
a traffic accident while taking part in a charity bicycle ride
across Britain.  McMenigall, 47, a senior global equities manager based in
Edinburgh, and Wallace, 36, a senior relationship manager in the
Scotland-based firm’s Philadelphia office, died yesterday after
being hit by a truck near Newquay in Cornwall, the company said
in an e-mailed statement.  The collision occurred in the first day of an approximately
900-mile (1,448-kilometer) ride from Land’s End, the most
southwesterly point in Britain, to John O’Groat’s, the most
northerly mainland point in Scotland. The trip was to raise
money for a charity in memory of a former colleague who died of
cancer two years ago.  “The fact that they died in such tragic circumstances
while trying to help others less fortunate tells you much about
their selflessness and humanity,” Martin Gilbert, chief
executive officer of Aberdeen,  Scotland ’s largest money manager,
said in the statement. “This is a terrible time for the
company. Our thoughts are with the families of Andrew and
Toby.”  McMenigall joined Edinburgh Fund Managers in 1997 before
the firm was bought by Aberdeen six years later. He helped
oversee 30 billion pounds ($46 billion) in global equities.  Sandhurst Graduate  A triathlete, McMenigall was a graduate of the Royal
Military Academy, Sandhurst, and a former British Army officer.
He earned a master of business administration from the
 University of Edinburgh .  McMenigall was vice president of the Edinburgh Triathletes
club and helped coach David Carry, who swam for the British team
at the Olympics in 2008 and 2012, the Scotsman  newspaper  said
today, citing  Edinburgh Triathletes  President Gavin Calder. He
was married and had two daughters  Wallace, who was also married, joined the company in 2000
after graduating from  Cambridge University . He twice rowed on
the winning side in the annual race on the  River Thames  between
Oxford University and Cambridge, Aberdeen said. Last year, he
rowed the Atlantic as part of an eight-man crew to raise money
for the same charity supported by the bicycle ride.  Devon & Cornwall police said in a statement the truck
driver had been  arrested  on suspicion of causing death by
dangerous driving. He was later released on bail.  Aberdeen oversees 212 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  