-- Labor Market Strengthens in U.S. as Services Slow: Economy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-07-03T22:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/labor-market-strengthens-in-u-s-even-as-services-slow-economy.html
The U.S. labor market strengthened in
the face of a slowdown in services, showing employers are
confident the world’s largest economy can overcome higher
federal taxes and budget cuts.  Claims for jobless benefits decreased by 5,000 to 343,000
in the week ended June 29, the Labor Department said today in
 Washington , and a private report showed companies added more
workers to payrolls in June than forecast. The  Institute for
Supply Management  said its non- manufacturing index  fell to 52.2
in June from 53.7 in May. A level above 50 indicates expansion.  Other figures showed Americans were the most optimistic in
five years, buoyed by rising property prices and an improving
job outlook. The gain in the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort index
indicates that household spending, which accounts for 70 percent
of the economy, may contribute to a second-half growth pickup.  “If the labor market stays resilient, then eventually this
soft patch in other indicators turns out to be temporary and the
rest of the economy essentially bounces back,” said Guy Berger,
an economist at RBS Securities in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , who is
the top-ranked forecaster for jobless claims based on data
compiled by Bloomberg going back two years. “The assumption is
that  consumer confidence  is going to hold up, too.”  Stocks in the U.S. rose as the labor-market data tempered
concern over political turmoil in  Egypt  and Portugal. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent to 1,615.41 at 1
p.m. in  New York  in an early close before the Independence Day
holiday. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose 3 basis
points to 2.50 percent.  U.K. Services  Elsewhere, demand for services picked up in the U.K. An
index of activity rose to 56.9 in June, the highest in more than
two years, from 54.9 in May, Markit Economics and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said today in  London .  The data were in contrast to the ISM’s services index for
the U.S., which fell to the lowest level since February 2010.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for an increase
to 54. Employment was a bright spot, with the hiring component
of the services gauge climbing to 54.7, a four-month high, from
50.1 the prior month.  Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Research Institute said
separately that private payrolls climbed by 188,000 workers in
June following a 134,000 gain the prior month.  Muted staff reductions reported by the Labor Department
today are a sign that demand is strong enough for companies to
keep staff. Greater demand in the second half of the year,
buoyed by consumer purchases such as automobiles, may persuade
employers to add to workers as the  Federal Reserve  weighs
whether labor market progress is enough to warrant reducing its
monthly bond-buying.  Jobs Report  The Labor Department in two days may report that total
payrolls, including government employees, rose by 165,000 last
month following an increase of 175,000 in May, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The jobless
rate is forecast to decline to 7.5 percent from 7.6 percent.  General Motors Co. and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are among companies
benefiting from strength in consumer demand. Ford’s sales of
cars and light trucks gained 13 percent in June, and GM’s rose
6.5 percent, both exceeding analysts’ estimates, data showed
yesterday. Industry wide, purchases climbed to a 15.9 million
annualized rate, the most since November 2007, according to
Ward’s Automotive Group.  Low Rates  Replacement demand and “historically low  interest rates 
irrespective of the conversations surrounding the Fed” are
fueling continued growth for the  auto industry ,  Ken Czubay ,
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s vice president of U.S.
marketing, sales and service, said on a conference call
yesterday. “The tailwinds continue to be strong” and are
“pretty forceful,” he said.  Brighter job prospects are contributing to the optimism.
The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 27.5 in the
period ended June 30, its highest level since January 2008, from
minus 28.3 a week earlier.  Higher-income Americans are seeing the biggest improvement
in confidence. The index for households earning from $75,000 to
$100,000 jumped to 14.8, its highest since November 2007, from
9.6 the week prior. The outlook improved for households earning
more than $100,000 a year, rising to 18.9, the third-highest
level since November 2007, from 14.8.  The advance in the consumer index was driven by a more
optimistic view on shopping, with the buying climate index
rising to minus 34.9 from minus 37.4 a week earlier as more
households said the time was right to make  purchases. (NHSLTOT)   Personal Finances  A gauge of Americans’ views on personal finances also
improved to 4.4 after holding at 3.8 for two weeks. The measure
of how Americans view the current state of the economy declined
for a second week to minus 51.9 from minus 51.3. A reading three
weeks ago of minus 51.2 was the highest since January 2008.  Rising home prices account for some of the improved
optimism. The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values in 20
cities increased 12.1 percent in April from the same month in
2012, the biggest year-over-year gain since March 2006, a report
last week showed. Purchases of new homes jumped in May to five-year high, figures from the Commerce Department showed last
week.  Another Commerce Department report today also pointed to
strength in consumer and business spending. The trade  deficit 
unexpectedly jumped in May as imports rose to the second-highest
level on record. The report also showed exports stagnated,
reflecting slack global growth as markets from  China  to  Europe (EUGNEMUQ) 
struggle to gain momentum.  Deficit Widens  The  trade gap  widened by 12.1 percent to $45 billion, the
biggest since November, from $40.1 billion in April, according
to the Commerce Department.  “We are seeing a pickup in demand on the consumer side
that’s boosting imports,” said Robert Rosener, an economist at
Credit Agricole CIB in New York. “The U.S. will keep growing
faster than other areas of the world.”  At the same time, the wider deficit prompted some
economists to mark down their forecasts for economic growth in
the second quarter. Economists at Barclays Plc reduced their
tracking estimate to an annualized rate of 1 percent from 1.6
percent.  The outlook for the second half of the year is brighter as
the impact dissipates from a 2 percent increase in the  payroll
tax  and across-the-board  federal budget  cuts. Gross domestic
product is forecast to expand at a 2.3 percent pace in the third
quarter and 2.6 percent in the following three-month period,
according to median estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.netcwellisz @bloomberg.net 