-- Adcock Receives $1.3 Billion Bid From Chile Drugmaker CFR
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w   a n d   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-07-03T15:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/adcock-gets-non-binding-offer-of-12-9-billion-rand-from-cfr.html
Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. (AIP)  said it
received a non-binding bid from Chilean drugmaker  CFR (CFR) 
Pharmaceuticals SA that values  South Africa ’s largest supplier
of hospital products at 12.9 billion rand ($1.3 billion).  The potential offer price from CFR is 73.51 rand, 14
percent more than Adcock’s closing price of 64.50 rand
yesterday, Johannesburg-based Adcock said in a statement today.
CFR would pay in cash and stock, the South African company said.  The bid comes three months after Adcock rejected a 6.2
billion-rand cash and shares offer from Johannesburg-based
 Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT)  for a 60 percent stake in the company. Adcock
 shares  rose 1.3 percent to 65.38 rand by the close in
Johannesburg, suggesting investors have yet to be convinced that
this latest offer will be successful.  “What the share-to-cash ratio will be is key,” Mathew Menezes, an analyst at Avior Research, said by phone from
Johannesburg. “The less cash is offered, the less enthusiastic
the market will be. Ultimately, if there had been a big name
making this offer for a cash amount, there would have been a
stronger initial reaction.”  Compelling Rationale  CFR is Chile’s largest drugmaker, with operations in  Latin
America ,  Europe  and  Southeast Asia . The combination would create
a company with annual revenue of about $1.3 billion and an asset
base of approximately $2.1 billion, Adcock said. It would have a
presence in more than 23 countries and employ more than 10,000
people.  “This offer has a compelling rationale from an emerging
market point of view,” Andrew Thompson, an independent director
at Adcock, said in a phone interview. “There is no South
African company that could have offered this combination.”  The  Public Investment Corp. , the South African government-employee pension-fund manager that’s Adcock’s biggest
shareholder, said May 14 that it would prefer that a domestic
company buy the hospital-supply provider.  “It would be inappropriate for the PIC to comment at this
stage,” spokeswoman Nomzamo Petje said by e-mail regarding the
CFR proposal. “The transaction is still under consideration and
therefore the PIC would like to allow the due process to take
place.”  Skepticism Locally  CFR, which listed in Santiago in 2011, bought Laboratorio
Franco Colombiano Lafrancol SAS in December for an undisclosed
amount, giving the company what it said would be the biggest
share of the market in  Colombia .  A spokesmen for Bidvest, which said in May that it’s still
interested in Adcock, didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment
today.  “There is some skepticism locally as people try and digest
this offer,”  David Shapiro , a director at Johannesburg-based
Sasfin Securities, said by phone. “I wouldn’t write off a
counter offer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net ;
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  