-- Aeffe Rules Out Sale Amid Renewed Investor Interest in Luxury
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-07-03T16:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/aeffe-rules-out-sale-amid-renewed-investor-interest-in-luxury.html
Aeffe SpA (AEF) , the owner of the Moschino
fashion brand, ruled out selling a stake any time soon, joining
rivals such as Cavalli Group in rebuffing interested suitors.  “We aren’t for sale,” Aeffe Executive Chairman Massimo Ferretti said in an interview in Moscow today. The San Giovanni-in-Marignano, Italy-based company is focused on growing without
seeking funds in this way “for the moment,” he said.  The luxury market will continue to consolidate as financial
investors seek to tap rising demand in fast-growing economies
and large luxury groups seek to benefit from scale, according to
Sanford C. Bernstein analyst Mario Ortelli. Industry buyers,
wealthy families and private-equity firms are scouring the
industry for deals, Cavalli CEO Gianluca Brozzetti said last
month, ruling out a sale of the maker of $2,305 rayon jackets.  Gianni Versace SpA said June 22 it expects to decide as
soon as October if it will sell a minority stake publicly or
privately to fund growth. Worldwide luxury sales will rise as
much as 5 percent this year as booming demand in  Southeast Asia 
offsets a slowdown in China and  Europe , Bain & Co. estimates.  Aeffe makes fashion and accessories under the Alberta Ferretti, Moschino, Pollini, Emanuel Ungaro and Cedric Charlier
brands. In 2012, earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization reached 22.8 million euros ($30 million) on revenue
of 254 million euros. Sales fell 2 percent in first quarter of
this year.  The company is investing more in brands such as Ungaro,
while shoemaker Pollini is growing “a lot,” Ferretti said.
“That means that for us it starts to be a very good moment.
It’s not a moment for sale,” even as Aeffe receives approaches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  