-- Maersk Wins as Biggest Shipping Accord to Boost Profit
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-03T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/maersk-wins-as-biggest-shipping-accord-to-boost-profit.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  and its two
main rivals may have their best chance yet to boost profit, say
European shipping investors and banks. The key: joining forces
to create the largest container alliance in history.  Maersk Line teamed up with Mediterranean Shipping Co. and
CMA CGM SA last month to pool 255 vessels on 29 loops covering
the world’s three biggest trade lanes. The goal is to cut costs
and end five years of overcapacity.  The alliance, which starts in the second quarter of 2014,
may boost  freight rates  as early as this month, sending a
“clear message” to customers that the price war is over,
according to Deutsche Bank AG. ATP, Denmark’s biggest pension
fund, with $140 billion in assets, said it expects its Maersk
stake to grow in value because of the deal.  “The hope is that this will make a big difference and the
industry has really needed something to happen,” Jonas Bhatti,
a portfolio manager at ATP, said in an interview. “This means
that  Maersk Line  will become more profitable. This is positive
for Maersk as an investment.”  Even the shipping industry’s users say rates may rise. The
Asian Shippers’ Meeting and the European Shippers’ Council said
in a joint statement that they have “deep concern” over the
alliance. Among the European council’s members: Ludwigshafen,
Germany-based chemical company BASF SE and Munich, Germany-based
engineering company Siemens AG.  ‘Free Choice’  The group is seeking to ensure that the deal doesn’t
“jeopardize or impair the free choice of shippers and fair
competition based on price, service level and routing,” the
groups said June 18.  The container industry is suffering from overcapacity after
a boom in ship orders coincided with the worst slump in freight
demand since the 1970s. Vessel supply exceeds demand by about 30
percent and much of the boxed freight being shipped is
unprofitable, according to BIMCO, the world’s biggest
international shipping association.  The Shanghai Containerized Freight Index, a weekly measure
of box rates out of  China , dropped 21 percent in the three
months before the announcement as industry efforts to boost
prices earlier this year failed to yield results. The index
jumped 22 percent on June 28, indicating container company
announcements of rate rises starting July 1 will be successful.  The alliance, to be called P3, still needs to win approval
from competition authorities. The partnership probably won’t
damage competition because there are still more than 15 rival
carriers on most trade routes, London-based  Drewry Maritime
Research  said in a note last month.  Competition Question  European Commission competition spokesman Antoine Colombani
said he couldn’t comment on implications of the container
accord. In general, he said by e-mail, companies themselves
should “to verify that such cooperation between competitors is
in line with EU antitrust rules. Of course the Commission may
also decide to examine an agreement of this type to see whether
it raises competition concerns.”  “The initiative could certainly entail antitrust risks,”
said Alfonso Lamadrid, a lawyer specializing in EU antitrust law
at law firm Garrigues in Brussels, in an interview. “Avoiding
antitrust exposure would normally require prior complex and
thorough discussion with the relevant competition authorities.”  Investors are rewarding Maersk, the only company in the
alliance whose stock is publicly traded. Its  shares  have gained
1.7 percent since the June 18 announcement, compared with a 2.7
percent decline in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index in the period.  Buy Advice  Deutsche Bank analyst Jose-Francisco Ruiz Solera said the
box alliance was a “clear” indication that “the times of
irrational competition could be over,” according to a June 20
note. He’s advising clients to buy Maersk shares. Of the 32
analysts covering Maersk, 23  recommend  either buying or holding
on to the stock, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bhatti of ATP, which held about 1 billion kroner ($175
million) in Maersk shares at the end of 2012, said the purpose
of the arrangement is to lower costs rather than raise freight
rates. Bhatti declined to say whether ATP has bought more Maersk
shares since the deal was announced, citing the state-backed
fund’s disclosure policy.  “The supply/demand balance has been very undesirable for
the industry for a long time,” he said. The accord “will
improve utilization of the ships and lower costs as the alliance
will be able to better manage the supply side,” he said.  Plunging Rates  Container lines had  failed  in five previous attempts to
raise rates on  Far East  to Europe trade this year, according to
industry consultant Alphaliner. The July 1 rate increase
proposals, which ranged from $750 per 20-foot container, or TEU,
to $1,000 per TEU, were the biggest ever announced on the trade,
Paris-based Alphaliner said in a note last month.  Spot freight rates on Far East-to-Europe trade plunged to
about $550 per TEU in the beginning of June from about $1,800 a
year earlier, according to Alphaliner. Rate increases have
failed as some shipping lines choose to prioritize filling up
their vessels rather than sticking to the higher prices as
overcapacity gives customers bargaining power.  Managing supply amid overcapacity has proven “extremely
difficult” in the last few years, said Peter Sand, a Bagsvaerd,
Denmark-based analyst at BIMCO, whose members control 65 percent
of the world’s tonnage. With fewer operators, striking that
balance may become easier, he said.  Severe Overcapacity?  “The elephant in the room that everyone is afraid to be
talking about is that overcapacity is so severe that it may take
many years before it disappears,” Sand said in a phone
interview. “Previously, there were expectations in the market
that the smaller container lines would disappear. That
development hasn’t really happened.”  The container lines will cooperate on routes covering  Asia 
to Europe as well as transpacific and transatlantic routes. P3
will have a combined market share on Asia-to-Europe of about 42
percent, Maersk Line Chief Trading and Marketing Officer Vincent Clerc said in an interview. The market share on transpacific
routes will be 24 percent; on transatlantic it will be between
40 percent and 42 percent, Clerc said.  The alliance “marks a major departure for all three member
carriers, who have historically eschewed formal alliance
arrangements,”  Alphaliner  said. “The P3 carriers will enjoy
the lowest unit costs and provide the widest east-west trade
coverage through the arrangement, which will also coordinate
future capacity introduction by its members on the three main
trade lanes.”  Maersk Line will contribute about 42 percent of the
network’s capacity, including its so-called Triple-E ships, the
world’s largest container vessels. They carry 18,000 boxes.
Geneva-based MSC will provide about 34 percent of the capacity
and Marseille-based CMA CGM will contribute about 24 percent.  Deutsche Bank’s Solera said the alliance will make price
wars among the largest players less likely. In addition, he
wrote in the note: “The flexibility provided by a huge common
network will make it easier to adjust capacity to demand,
avoiding punctual oversupply problems and making it possible to
reach higher load factors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  