-- America’s Most Disagreeable Holiday
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-07-03T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/america-s-most-disagreeable-holiday.html
This Fourth of July in the
Connecticut town where I live, a small group of residents, many
of them veterans, will gather on the green to read aloud  the
entire text  of the Declaration of Independence. This solemn and
salutatory ritual serves as a reminder that if we want to know
what America is all about, the Declaration, rather than  the U.S.
Constitution , is the place to start.  For America, Independence Day has always had a symbolic
importance that  Constitution Day  lacks. July 4 has been selected
as the date for any number of historically important events in
U.S. history: the start of the American bombing campaign against
Nazi-occupied  Europe  in 1942, for instance, and the effective
date of the abolition of slavery in  New York  state in 1827. And
it was no accident that boxing promoters chose July 4, 1910, for
the “ Great White Hope ” fight between Jack Johnson and James J.
Jeffries.  When I was a kid, the Fourth of July had a certain magic.
You could count on Major League Baseball teams playing
Independence Day doubleheaders. In  the small town  of my youth,
you could look forward to a July Fourth ice-cream social in the
park. Those were the days when, in the words of novelist E.L.
Doctorow, “Patriotism was a reliable sentiment.”  Patriotic Dissent  We may not be any less patriotic than we used to be, but
the formal signals of earlier days are largely absent. Try to
remember, for instance, the last time any store flying a U.S.
flag paid much attention to the proper method of display, long
ago codified by Congress in a forgotten statute called the  Flag
Code . (Yes, enforcing the statute would in many cases  violate 
the First Amendment. Still, just because one has the right to
violate it doesn’t mean that it’s right to violate it.)  But the one symbol of patriotism that has yet to fade is
our love of dissent -- loud, raucous, passionate, sometimes
impolite -- and it is dissent that we should be celebrating on
 Independence Day .  It’s hard sometimes. If you’re like me, at least twice a
week you encounter some opinion that makes your blood boil.
Maybe it comes from a friend or colleague, maybe from a
politician or pundit; whatever the source, a part of you surely
wonders how any seemingly intelligent person can possibly
believe that drivel, much less express it. The Fourth of July is
exactly the right occasion to pause and give thanks for those
disagreeable views -- and for a country that was founded on our
right to express them.  Dissent is central to democracy, and although I believe
dissent should be civil, its centrality doesn’t fade when it
isn’t. As sociologist Charles P. Flynn pointed out in  his 1977
book  “Insult and Society,” insults aimed at government officials
“provide a check to those in power who may be tempted to think
of themselves in grandiose terms, above the rest of humanity and
hence not subject to insults.”  The essential function of dissent is to remind the rulers
that they serve the ruled. It is a paradox of our era that even
as the digital world opens new avenues for conveying ideas,
effective dissent becomes more and more difficult. In
particular, the growing bureaucratization of government has a
stifling effect on dissent. A large and complex government,
distant from those it governs, tends to handle disagreement in
the same way as a corporate customer-relations department: The
complaint is reduced to a standardized input to be processed,
cataloged, digitized and ultimately forgotten.  I suspect that one cause of the growing fury of our
political age is that a large, distant, essentially diffident
federal establishment is not terribly well-suited to give ear to
the disgruntlements of the ordinary citizen. Dissenters feel
ignored, and their frustration leads them to anger. Both the  Tea
Party  and the Occupy movement rest fundamentally on a popular
sense that nobody in  Washington  listens.  Revolutionary Sentiment  This inattention matters. I have argued  elsewhere  that the
very justness of a sovereign -- the legitimate authority to rule
-- rests in large measure on how it responds to dissent. The
Declaration of Independence relies crucially on this notion. If
you read through the long list of the colonists’ complaints, all
of them seem reasonable but none seem sufficient to justify
revolution. Then, as the litany ends, there is this:  “In every stage of these Oppressions We have Petitioned for
Redress in the most humble terms: Our repeated Petitions have
been answered only by repeated injury.”  The very next paragraph reminds the reader that the
petitions have been ignored, and the key to the language isn’t
the specific complaints but the repeated efforts to bring them
to the sovereign’s attention: “We have warned them ... we have
reminded them ... we have appealed ... " But, alas, those the
Declaration calls “our British brethren” have proved “deaf to
the voice of justice and of consanguinity.”  Those two paragraphs are key to understanding the argument.
We have asked and asked, the writers insist, and our appeals
have not even been given a serious hearing. On the contrary, our
complaints “have been answered only by repeated injury.”  The refusal to take dissent seriously, then, might be
considered the essence of the complaint on which America itself
is founded. Nowadays, we tend to extol the patriotism of
dissenters in causes we like and question that of dissenters in
causes we hate. There is, of course, nothing new in this
behavior. But the Fourth of July is a good time to remember how
antithetical to the values of our founding it is.  Maybe next year on July 4, President  Barack Obama  could
kick off a reading of the entire Declaration of Independence on
the South Lawn of the White House, followed by a celebration of
dissent, in which he might encourage us to thank one another for
our mutually disagreeable views. Maybe you beg to differ. If so,
let’s thank God for placing us in a nation founded on your right
to tell me I’m wrong.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” Follow him on
Twitter at  @StepCarter .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 