-- AMP Buying Japan Shares on Abe’s Economic Revamp
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-07-04T06:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/amp-buying-japan-shares-on-abe-s-economic-revamp.html
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., a unit of
 Australia ’s biggest  asset manager , resumed buying Japanese
shares on expectations that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will win
upper-house elections, enabling him to push through reforms, and
the yen will weaken.  Stocks will rally as much as 20 percent and the yen will
fall to 110 to the dollar by the end of the year, said Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at AMP
Capital, which manages more than $130 billion. Naeimi, who
correctly predicted the magnitude of the recent  correction  in
Japanese stocks, started buying again near the end of June.
Retail, real estate and financial companies, as well as
exporters, will benefit the most, he said.  “After upper-house elections on July 21, the Japanese
share market will get new vigor,” Naeimi said by phone from
Sydney on July 1, after a three-day trip last month to meet
Japanese company and government officials. “Abe will have power
in both chambers, which means he’ll have total control for three
years. He’ll use this time to change Japan’s economy as much as
he can. It’s way too early to be pessimistic.”  The Topix index fell as much as 18 percent from an almost
five-year high on May 22, closing 8.3 percent lower than the
peak today. Even after the drop,  Japan  has outperformed all
major equity markets this year on optimism Abe’s “three
arrows” -- fiscal stimulus, monetary easing and structural
reforms -- will beat deflation, weaken the yen and boost growth.  Weakening Yen  Naeimi sees the currency falling further this year as real
yields in the U.S. rise, making Japanese  government bonds  less
attractive and limiting capital inflows to the country. The
likelihood of the  Federal Reserve  drawing down monetary easing
while the Bank of Japan continues with record stimulus will also
weaken the yen, he said.  Yields of just under 0.9 percent on Japan’s 10-year notes
rise to 1.17 percent after  accounting  for deflation. The so-called real yields were as high as 1.63 percent in May, the most
since April 2011. Real yields for 10-year  Treasuries (USGG10YR)  are 1.14
percent and were negative as recently as March.  The Topix lost 0.3 percent today at the close in Tokyo,
with the yen gaining 0.3 percent to 99.64 against the greenback.  The equity gauge tumbled 3.2 percent on June 5 after Abe
said his growth plan wouldn’t begin for months, signaling he is
putting off broad economic reforms until he secures control of
the upper house of parliament. He vowed the same day to
deregulate the energy, health and infrastructure industries, as
well as doubling foreign investment by 2020 and boosting power-industry investment to 30 trillion yen ($300 billion) within a
decade.  Shorter Horizons  “When we met with authorities in Japan in June, we heard
shorter-term targets,” Naeimi said. “A 10- to 20-year horizon
doesn’t give anyone conviction.”  Initiatives to boost spending are a top priority, Naeimi
said. Corporations’ stockpile of cash reached a record 225
trillion yen in the first quarter, bigger than  Italy ’s economy,
 Bank of Japan  figures show. The government is weighing tax
reforms to promote  capital investment , including allowing all-at-once tax write-offs for such spending, Economy Minister Akira
Amari said on July 1.  “These policies aren’t groundbreaking, they’re not
headline-grabbing, but they’re very important,” Naeimi said.
“What Japan really needs is to get people spending. Households
and corporates have totally clean balance sheets but they
haven’t been encouraged to spend.”  Upper-House Elections  Official campaigning for this month’s upper-house polls
began today. Abe’s ruling  Liberal Democratic Party  and its
coalition partner won nearly two-thirds of the seats in a Tokyo
assembly election last month, boding well for national polls.
Abe wants to focus on the economy for the next three years, he
said on June 26.  Confidence is filtering down to companies, with a gauge of
sentiment among large manufacturers turning positive for the
first time since 2011. The quarterly Tankan index rose to plus
four in June from minus eight in March, the Bank of Japan said
on July 1. Large companies from all industries plan to increase
 capital spending  5.5 percent this fiscal year as the government
promotes investment, central bank figures show.  Consumer confidence  has also improved, rising in May to the
highest since 2007, a Cabinet Office survey showed. Housing
starts that month capped a nine-month advance, the longest
streak of gains since February 2011.  “After the election, we’ll see a sweep of new policy
announcements,” Naeimi said. “We’ve used this weakness to buy
more shares. We viewed it as a correction, not a downward trend.
But if we don’t see those announcements, it’ll be a trigger for
us to reduce.”  ‘Underutilized Resource’  Government efforts to get more women into the workforce may
also boost spending, Naeimi said. Abe promises to capitalize on
what he calls the “underutilized resource” in an economy where
one in four people is already over 65 years old. He has vowed to
eliminate waiting lists for childcare and provide training for
mothers seeking to return to work.  Women make up just  15 percent  of department managers,
according to the Ministry of Health, Labor & Welfare, with
female workers earning only about 70 percent of what their male
counterparts make. Long office hours and a shortage of
facilities for child and elderly care often keep women from
pursuing senior positions, sometimes keeping them out of the
workforce altogether.  “Underneath it all, there are some really interesting
policies taking place,” Naeimi said. “Invest in sectors that
will benefit most from an domestic economic recovery as well as
companies that will reap profits from increased domestic
spending. Corrections have been big in these sectors, so they’re
a great opportunity again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  