-- Arsenal Targets Manchester City Midfielder Barry: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-03T08:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/arsenal-targets-manchester-city-midfielder-barry-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Gunning for Barry  Arsenal has targeted  Manchester City ’s Gareth Barry as it
seeks to sign a holding midfielder and may try to interest the
32-year-old with a two-year contract, the  Sun reported .  Barry, who has a year of his 100,000-pounds-a-week
($152,000) deal with City remaining, would cost the Gunners
about 3.5 million pounds, the newspaper added.  Shelvey to Swansea  Swansea City agreed to pay Liverpool 6 million pounds for
midfielder Jonjo Shelvey and the transfer could be completed
before the weekend, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Norwich and Crystal Palace have also shown interest in
Shelvey, whose starting opportunities will be limited by the
recent acquisition of Spanish duo Iago Aspas and Luis Alberto,
the newspaper said.  Cavani’s Clause  Paris Saint-Germain’s readiness to match the release clause
for Napoli striker Edinson Cavani may force Chelsea to increase
its offer for the Uruguay forward to 53 million pounds, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Although the Blues are willing to meet Cavani’s demands for
a five-year contract worth about 150,000 pounds a week, they
have so far refused to offer Napoli more than 45 million pounds
for the player, the Mirror added.  Rooney, Lewandowski  PSG’s bid has put Chelsea off Cavani and the London team
will step up its pursuit of Manchester United striker  Wayne Rooney  and  Borussia Dortmund  forward  Robert Lewandowski , the
 Daily Mail reported .  Rooney and Lewandowski would be available for smaller
transfer fees, though come with complications as United doesn’t
want to strengthen a Premier League rival and Lewandowski wants
to join  Bayern Munich , the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  