-- Asia Pacific Nations Lag on Social Protection Spending, ADB Says
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-07-03T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/asia-pacific-nations-lag-on-social-protection-spending-adb-says.html
Asia-Pacific nations need to boost
spending on social protection as widening income inequality
risks stoking unrest, the  Asian Development Bank  said.  Only in Japan,  South Korea , Mongolia and Uzbekistan out of
35 countries in the region does spending on social protection
equal at least 5 percent of per capita gross domestic product,
the  ADB  said in a report released today, using 2009 data.
Insurance and pensions dominate such expenditure, while few
governments focus on labor, the report said.  “Governments are underspending on social protection and
this is a problem because there is widening inequality in the
region,” Bartlet Edes, a director at ADB’s regional and
sustainable development department, said in an interview in
Manila. “If the benefits of Asia’s remarkable growth continues
to be distributed in an unequal way, it’s going to weaken the
social fabric and lead to social tension.”  Nations from  Brazil  to  Turkey  have battled growing unrest
in past months as citizens rallied against unemployment and
rising costs. Even as incomes climbed quickly on the back of
economic expansion,  income inequality  in China rose to 0.474 in
2012 as measured by the Gini coefficient, above the 0.4 level
analysts use as a gauge for social unrest.  South Korea’s social-protection spending, which is about 5
percent of per capita GDP, is a reasonable target for middle-income countries, ADB said in the report. China spends 3.5
percent, the Philippines 2 percent, and Indonesia 1.1 percent,
according to data obtained separately from the ADB.  Numerous factors, such as a death in the family, illness,
old age, natural disasters, financial crises, and unemployment
can affect a large proportion of the population and adequate
systems need to be in place to deal with such situations, the
ADB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  