-- Asian Stocks Fall on Resource Producers, China Services
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-07-03T10:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/asia-stocks-drop-on-resources-companies-calbee-plunges.html
Asian  stocks  dropped for the first
time in six days as resource companies retreated after metals
prices slid overnight and an official report showed  China ’s
services industry expanded at a slower pace.  BHP Billiton  Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, sank
3.2 percent.  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. led declines on the Asia-Pacific equity benchmark after the Japanese utility soared 19
percent yesterday.  Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. (2587)  gained 1.5
percent on its debut in Tokyo after raising almost $4 billion in
 Asia ’s largest public offering this year. Nikkei 225 Stock
Average futures dropped as Portugal’s government bond yields
surged on political infighting that threaten austerity plans.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 1.1 percent to 130.12 as
of 6:11 p.m. in  Hong Kong , with all 10 industry groups
declining. Investors are waiting on U.S. jobs figures for signs
the  Federal Reserve  may start tapering record stimulus as
 China’s economy  slows and  Europe ’s debt crisis lingers.  “Economic growth is slowing in China and is holding the
market back,” Stephen Corry, a Hong Kong-based chief investment
strategist at LGT Group, a private banking and asset-management
group that oversees about $107 billion, said in a phone
interview. “It’s difficult to see much upside. GDP growth will
struggle to meet the government’s 7.5 percent target for 2013.
Valuations are rock bottom but that’s not a good enough
indication to purchase.”  The benchmark MSCI Asia Pacific Index retreated 8.9 percent
through yesterday from an almost five-year high on May 20. That
gauge yesterday traded at 12.7 times average  estimated earnings ,
compared with 14.6 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.7
times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Utilities Drop  Japan ’s  Topix index  gained 0.2 percent after swinging
betweens gains and losses during the trading day, and the Nikkei
225 Stock Average slid 0.3 percent. Tokyo Electric Power dropped
10 percent to 559 yen as a gauge of utilities led declines among
the Topix’s 33 industry groups.  Nikkei futures dropped as much as 2.8 percent in  Chicago  as
the yen surged after Portugal’s borrowing costs exceeded 8
percent for the first time this year. Two coalition ministers
quit, stoking concern the government will struggle to cut
spending further to meet bailout conditions.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  lost 2.5 percent for its worst
start to a month since October 2011, while the Shanghai
Composite retreated 0.6 percent.  South Korea’s  Kospi index  fell 1.6 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 1.9 percent, and New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index slid 0.2 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index declined 1.3
percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index slipped 1.4 percent.  Price Divergence  Futures on the  S&P 500  lost 0.6 percent after falling 0.1
percent yesterday. A report today from the ADP Research
Institute may indicate U.S. companies increased employment. A
Labor Department report due June 5 is expected to show 165,000
jobs were added in June. The Fed said last month it may start
paring record asset purchases this year if the economy performs
in line with estimates.  “There is an increasing divergence between economic
fundamentals, which still show a lot of weaknesses, compared to
the monetary stimulus which makes you want to go and buy
equities,” Komal Sri Kumar, president of Sri-Kumar Global
Strategies Inc., told Bloomberg TV from  Los Angeles . “At some
point in time the divergence becomes excessive, and the market
starts to correct. It’s hard to give the timing but the more you
run up the greater the fall needs to be to compensate.”  Materials Slump  Raw-material producers led declines on the regional
equities gauge after the London Metal Exchange LMEX Index
dropped 0.4 percent yesterday. BHP Billiton sank 3.2 percent to
A$31.05.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  lost 3 percent to A$51.50. Jiangxi
Copper Co. slipped 4.5 percent to HK$12.36.  Adding to signs of a slowdown, China’s non-manufacturing
purchasing manager’s index fell to 53.9 in June from 54.3 in
May, according to data released by the Beijing-based National
Bureau of Statistics and Federation of Logistics & Purchasing. A
reading above 50 indicates growth.  The conditions exist for China to realize its economic
targets for this year and for sustainable, healthy development,
Premier Li said in a meeting with leaders from central and
eastern Europe, according to a China Central Television report
yesterday.  The comments come after Goldman Sachs Group Inc., China
International Capital Corp., Barclays Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc
pared their growth projections this year to 7.4 percent, below
the government’s 7.5 percent goal.  All  developers  listed on the  Hang Seng Index  declined after
home sales plunged last month, an official report showed. Sun
Hung Kai Properties Ltd., the city’s biggest property company by
market value, decreased 2.3 percent to HK$97.70. Cheung Kong
Holdings Ltd., controlled by Asia’s richest man, lost 2.1
percent to HK$102.2.  Suntory advanced 1.5 percent to 3,145 yen as the seller of
Orangina soda began trading. The company last week priced its
initial public offering near the low end of the projected range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  