-- Latvia Wins European Parliament Support to Join Euro in 2014
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-07-03T10:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/latvia-wins-european-parliament-support-to-join-euro-in-2014.html
The European Parliament endorsed
 Latvia ’s bid to adopt the euro as of January 2014, when the ex-communist Baltic country is due to become the 18th member of the
single currency.  Today’s approval by the European Union assembly in
Strasbourg,  France , sets the stage for a final decision by EU
finance ministers on July 9.  Last month, the European Commission said Latvia qualified
for euro entry by meeting targets for inflation, budget
deficits, debt, long-term interest rates and currency stability.
Last week, EU government leaders gave their support.  “I’m very positive about Latvia joining the euro,”
Burkhard Balz, a German member who steered the verdict through
the 28-nation EU Parliament, told reporters in Strasbourg.
“Latvia is the example of how to successfully emerge from a
deep crisis with stringent austerity measures.”  Latvia suffered from Europe’s deepest recession in 2009,
when the nation’s economy contracted 17.7 percent, before
posting its fastest growth last year, 5.6 percent. EU Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said June 12 that
Latvia’s economic rebound highlights the need across Europe to
narrow national budget deficits as the region seeks to overcome
the three-year-old debt crisis.  Latvian Finance Minister Andris Vilks said adopting the
euro will complete Latvia’s strategic goal of being fully
integrated in European institutions.  “It’s an anchor for our economy,” he told reporters today
in Strasbourg. “We are looking to growth.”  With opinion polls showing most Latvians oppose switching
to the euro, Vilks predicted domestic public support would rise
to around 50 percent by year-end. He cited the need to avoid an
aggravation of the debt crisis triggered by  Greece  in late 2009.  “People are quite afraid about different potential
shocks,” Vilks said. “The best for us is less-concerning news
from the euro zone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Stearns at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net  