-- Aussie Rises on Higher-Than-Forecast Trade Surplus
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M i o   C o x o n
-- 2013-07-03T06:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/aussie-trades-near-september-2010-low-before-stevens-speaks.html
The Australian dollar dropped to the
lowest since September 2010 after Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  said the currency has been too high and the economy
“will probably get” a lower currency if needed.  The Aussie briefly rose after data showed the nation’s
trade surplus in May was more than 10 times what economists had
estimated. It declined to the weakest in 4 1/2 years against its
 New Zealand  counterpart after Auckland-based Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy exporter, said
whole milk powder prices increased. Demand for both currencies
was damped as Asian shares fell.  “The Aussie is falling across the board in reaction to
comments from the RBA Governor about the currency,” said
Junichi Ishikawa, an analyst at IG Markets Securities Ltd. in
 Tokyo . “The Aussie dollar will probably continue its weakening
trend.”  The Australian dollar dropped to 90.70 U.S. cents, the
least since September 2010, before trading 0.8 percent lower at
90.76 as of 4:16 p.m. in Sydney. It declined 0.7 percent to
91.39 yen. The Aussie lost 0.5 percent to NZ$1.1743 after
earlier touching NZ$1.1738, the weakest since December 2008.  New Zealand’s dollar depreciated 0.3 percent to 77.29 U.S.
cents and 0.2 percent to 77.83 yen.  The  yield  on  Australia ’s 10-year government bond was little
changed at 3.74 percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 1.3
percent.  Currency Depreciation  “If the economy ‘needs’ a lower exchange rate, it will
probably get it,” Stevens said in a speech in Brisbane to the
Economic Society of Australia today. He said the central bank’s
board “deliberated for a very long time” yesterday before
deciding to keep its key  interest rate  unchanged at a record low
2.75 percent.  “Stevens is showing that perhaps the decision not to cut
yesterday was closer than the market was anticipating,” said
Derek Mumford, a director at Rochford Capital, a currency risk-management company in Sydney. “He is still looking to talk down
the Aussie dollar and signaling that interest-rate cuts are
still on the table.”  Traders see more than 50 percent chance the RBA will cut
its key rate to 2.5 percent at its next meeting on Aug. 6, based
on swaps data compiled by Bloomberg. Earlier today before
Stevens speech, the swaps signaled about a 37 percent chance of
a rate cut next month.  He said yesterday in a statement accompanying the rate
decision that “it is possible that the  exchange rate  will
depreciate further over time, which would help to foster a
rebalancing of growth in the economy.”  China Slowdown  The Aussie has dropped almost 11 percent since the RBA
unexpectedly cut its key rate on May 7. The slump also reflects
slowing growth in  China  and comments by Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke , who said on June 19 that policy makers may
begin slowing bond purchases this year if the economy achieves
sustainable growth.  Australia’s  trade surplus  was A$670 million ($608 million)
in May, the Bureau of Statistics reported in Sydney today,
compared with the median estimate of A$53 million in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. That’s up from a revised A$171
million in April.  “That was a bit better than expected, but that being said,
I think the concern for the Aussie is still there,”  Thomas Harr , head of Asia local-markets strategy at Standard Chartered
Plc in  Singapore , said of the trade data. “I do think that the
trend is for a lower Aussie given the concerns about slower
China growth and the commodities being much weaker now.” The
 Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB index  of raw materials has fallen
more than 5 percent since the end of March.  Separate figures from Australia’s government showed retail
sales rose 0.1 percent in May, less than economists expected.  Whole milk powder for delivery across all contracts through
January rose 0.1 percent, according to a trade-weighted index
posted on Fonterra’s GlobalDairyTrade website. The average
winning price climbed to $4,757 a metric ton, the highest since
April 16, from $4,668 at the last auction two weeks ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Mio Coxon in Tokyo at 
 mcoxon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  