-- Australia Wants Rugby Governing Body to Review Appeal Process
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-03T03:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/australia-wants-rugby-governing-body-to-review-appeal-process.html
The Australian Rugby Union wants the
sport’s governing body to review the appeals process that placed
Wallabies captain  James Horwill  in selection limbo before the
series-deciding Test against the British and Irish Lions.  Horwill was yesterday cleared for the second time of
allegedly stamping on the head of Lions lock Alun Jones in the
June 22 opener, freeing him to play in the July 6 decider in
Sydney. The International Rugby Board last week appealed against
an initial ruling to exonerate Horwill.  ARU Chief Executive Officer Bill Pulver today described the
process as “problematic,” saying it was unfair on Horwill that
the stamping charge had lingered until four days before the
final game of the best-of-three contest. Horwill said yesterday
he couldn’t sleep on Monday night while the independent
arbitrator overseeing the IRB’s appeal deliberated.  “If you think of a 15-day lapsed period between the first
Test and the third Test, inside that there was an extended
period of uncertainty created by that review process,” Pulver
said at a news conference. “I’m not comfortable with that. I
plan to discuss that with the International Rugby Board.”  Horwill, who shed tears after  Australia ’s 16-15 win against
the Lions in Melbourne four days ago, would have missed the
decider had Toronto-based arbitrator Graeme Mew not rejected the
IRB’s appeal against the June 23 decision to acquit him.  Mew announced his findings yesterday following a 2 1/2 hour
hearing conducted via videoconference and almost 12 hours of
deliberation. He concluded that IRB-appointed judicial officer
Nigel Hampton of  New Zealand  had not made any errors of law or
principle in his initial ruling.  ‘Double Jeopardy’  The Dublin-based IRB said in a statement that it accepted
Mew’s decision, adding that it “took the right approach to
further examine the case and subsequently lodge an appeal in the
interests of player welfare.” It was the first time the
governing body challenged a decision to clear a player.  Pulver said the matter should have ended when Hampton found
that Horwill hadn’t recklessly or deliberately stamped on Wyn
Jones in the third minute of the first Test in Brisbane.  “I simply have a problem with the double jeopardy concept
of being tried twice for essentially the same issue,” Pulver
added. “I’ll be writing to the IRB. In fairness to the IRB
they’ve operated within the law as defined. I just think it
needs to be reviewed and I would like to see it changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  