-- Australia Retail Sales Rose Less Than Economists Forecast in May
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-07-03T01:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/australia-retail-sales-rose-less-than-economists-forecast-in-may.html
Australian retail sales rose less
than economists forecast in May as consumers cut spending on
dining out and household goods.  Sales gained 0.1 percent to A$21.8 billion ($20 billion)
from a month earlier, when they fell a revised 0.1 percent from
an earlier reported 0.2 percent increase, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. The result compares with the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists for
a 0.3 percent advance.  Reserve Bank of  Australia  Governor Glenn Stevens and his
board cut borrowing costs by 2 percentage points between
November 2011 and May to 2.75 percent, joining global
counterparts in embracing record-low rates. The RBA is trying to
rebalance the economy away from mining regions in the north and
west as investment wanes, and stimulate growth in manufacturing,
residential construction and retail in the south and east.  “Retail trade is struggling to get its mojo back,”
Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney, said
before the report. “Households are worried about the economy
and job prospects so are keeping a lid on spending.”  Spending at restaurants and cafes declined 0.6 percent, and
consumers spent 0.3 percent less on household goods, today’s
report showed. They spent 0.8 percent more at department stores,
it showed.  The local dollar traded at 91.72 U.S. cents at 11:36 a.m.
in Sydney from 91.76 cents before the release.  Lower Rates  “The easing in monetary policy over the past 18 months has
supported interest-sensitive spending and asset values and
further effects can be expected over time,” Stevens said in a
statement yesterday after leaving rates unchanged. “The pace of
borrowing has remained relatively subdued, though recently there
are signs of increased demand for finance by households.”  Australia has posted the developed world’s quickest growth
rates as demand from  China  fueled a once-in-a-century mining-investment boom. That’s souring as China’s outlook deteriorates
and the Aussie dollar’s strength forces companies including Ford
Motor Co. to cut workers and close plants.  The currency held above $1 from mid-June last year to May
10, the longest stretch above parity with the U.S. dollar since
the Aussie was freely floated in 1983.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  