-- Lawmakers Cite Risk of Banks in Commodities in Bernanke Letter
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-07-03T21:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/lawmakers-cite-risk-of-banks-in-commodities-in-bernanke-letter.html
Four Democratic lawmakers sent a
letter to Federal Reserve Board Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  asking
if investments in the commodities business by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  pose risks to the economy.  Representatives Alan Grayson of Florida, Raul Grijalva of
Arizona,  John Conyers  of Michigan and  Keith Ellison  of Minnesota
also asked Bernanke in the letter to explain the legal basis for
allowing the banks to hold commodity-related assets.  “Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are no longer
just banks -- they have effectively become  oil companies , port
airport operators, commodities dealers and electric utilities as
well,” the lawmakers wrote in the June 27 letter. “This is
causing unforeseen problems in the industrial sector of the
economy.”  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs are two of the largest
commodities trading firms. Morgan Stanley has owned oil tankers
and pipelines among its non-financial assets. Goldman started
its commodities team when it bought brokerage J. Aron & Co. in
1981.  “Morgan Stanley’s physical commodities businesses predate
our conversion to a bank holding company,” Mark Lake, a Morgan
Stanley spokesman, said in response to the letter.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokesman for JP Morgan declined to comment, as
did  Andrew Williams , a spokesman at Goldman Sachs.  Goldman Sachs’s Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein,
President Gary D. Cohn and Chief Financial Officer Harvey M. Schwartz all started in the firm’s J. Aron commodities
subsidiary.  “We strongly believe that being in the commodities
business is important to our clients and our client franchise,”
Cohn said at a May 30 investor conference in New York.  Revenue Decline  The 10 largest global investment banks generated $6 billion
in revenue from commodities trading last year, according to data
from analytics firm Coalition Ltd. That’s less than half the $14
billion they produced in 2008. Morgan Stanley is one of the top
three banks in revenue from commodities, according to Coalition.  The lawmakers said the banks have used the legal authority
in the 1999 Graham-Leach-Bliley Act to “subvert the
foundational principle of separation of banking from commerce.
The act tossed out longstanding prohibitions of banks against
commercial banks offering investment and insurance services.  ‘‘Such a dramatic intertwining of the industrial economy
and supply chain with the financial system creates systemic
risk, since there is effectively no regulatory entity that can
oversee what is happening within these sprawling global
entities,’’ the lawmakers wrote.  The lawmakers asked Bernanke whether the  Federal Reserve 
has been investigating the risks of allowing banks in these
businesses, what data had been collected about the banks’ non-financial activities, and how regulators evaluate banks’
conflicts of interests between physical commodity businesses and
derivatives trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  