-- Lawrence Ho Plans Casino In Russia: WSJ Says
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-07-03T11:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/lawrence-ho-plans-casino-in-russia-wsj-says.html
Lawrence Ho, the co-chairman of Macau
casino operator  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , is planning a
gambling resort on the outskirts of Vladivostok in Russia, the
Wall Street Journal reported, citing a person familiar with the
deal.  Summit Ascent Holdings Ltd. (102) , a Hong Kong-based company that
is 37 percent owned by Ho, signed a preliminary agreement to
invest in a “gaming and resort development project in the
Russian Federation,” according to the company’s June 28  filing
to  the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.  The businessman, a son of gambling magnate  Stanley Ho , has
been expanding his casino business at home and overseas. In the
Philippines, Melco Crown is partnering with  Belle Corp. (BEL) , the
company controlled by billionaire  Henry Sy , to build a casino
resort complex in Manila, the capital city of the Southeast
Asian country.  The Manila casino is expected to cost $1 billion. Melco
Crown is also investing $2 billion in developing a brand-new
casino resort in Macau, to be called Studio City which is
expected to open in the middle of 2015.  Summit Ascent’s preliminary agreement on the Russian casino
is “subject to fulfillment of a number of conditions including
legal, accounting and construction due diligence,” the company
said in the June 28 statement. It also needs a definitive
investment agreement on or before Aug. 15, it said. That
announcement didn’t disclose the location of the proposed casino
resort.  The planned casino will be built in Primorye, an eastern
region bordering China and Korea, and is scheduled to open in
the second half of next year, according to the Wall Street
Journal. The casino will be one of the first in Russia after the
country in 2009 banned casino gambling outside four special
zones, the report said.  Maggie Ma, a spokeswoman at Melco Crown, didn’t comment on
the Russian investment. Samuel Tsang, a company secretary at
Summit Ascent, declined to comment on the investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  