-- Barroso Wants Parallel EU-U.S. Trade Talks, Wiretapping Probe
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-07-03T18:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/barroso-wants-parallel-eu-u-s-trade-talks-wiretapping-probe.html
European Commission President Jose Barroso said the start of trans-Atlantic free trade talks should
coincide with U.S. willingness to discuss reported wiretapping
activities with its European partners.  “We are committed of course to the Transatlantic Trade and
Investment Partnership,” Barroso said in Berlin today after a
youth unemployment summit attended by European Union leaders.
“But we expect that in parallel we have work in EU-U.S. working
groups that will analyze the oversight of intelligence
activities.”  For the trans-Atlantic free trade and investment
partnership to be a success, confidence is needed between the
partners, said Barroso. He said the commission’s approach has
the full backing of Germany and  France .  EU demands for clarifications come after the German
magazine Der Spiegel ran a story detailing allegations of spying
on EU institutions, both in  Washington  and New York, by the U.S.
National Security Agency. The allegations were made based on
documents leaked by Edward Snowden, the former NSA contractor
who is seeking asylum in order to avoid extradition to face
espionage charges in the U.S.  “We are all very concerned, that has become clear in our
talks today, about certain activities that have happened,”
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said at the same Berlin press
briefing. It’s “the right idea” to start both processes in
parallel, Merkel said, adding she assumes a parallel start can
be achieved.  G-8 Talks  Following a declaration by the two sides at last month’s
Group of Eight summit in Northern Ireland, negotiations on the
TTIP between EU and U.S. officials are scheduled to start on
July 8 in Washington.  “The position of France is that trade talks cannot start
without getting at the same time talks with the U.S. verifying
the activities of their secret services in our countries,” said
French President Francois Hollande in Berlin. Trade talks
“can’t happen unless there’s also this discussion, at the same
date, of the secret service activities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  