-- Batista Pledged Personal Wealth for $1 Billion BNDES Loan
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   A l e x   C u a d r o s
-- 2013-07-03T14:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/batista-pledged-personal-wealth-for-1-billion-bndes-loan.html
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ,
who bond investors say is edging closer to a debt restructuring,
used his wealth to personally guarantee 2.3 billion reais ($1
billion) in loans from the nation’s development bank, according
to information obtained by Bloomberg News.  The loans are part of the 10.4 billion reais that Batista’s
companies contracted with the state-run lender, known as BNDES,
since 2007. BNDES provided the tally of the loans and their
respective guarantees in response to a request by Bloomberg
under  Brazil ’s freedom of information law. The bank didn’t say
how much is outstanding.  Investors are trying to gauge the potential fallout for
shareholders and creditors after Batista’s flagship company,  OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , said July 1 that it may shut
down its only producing oil field. His six publicly traded
companies lost $1 billion in market value since then while OGX’s
bonds due 2018 dropped to a record low 19 cents on the dollar on
concern the company won’t have cash to pay creditors. OGX fell
13 percent to 39 centavos at 11:20 a.m. in  Sao Paulo  today.  “They can go after his personal assets, the car he bought
for his children and so on,” said Ray Zucaro, who helps oversee
$350 million of emerging-market debt at SW Asset Management in
 Newport Beach ,  California . “The nice thing about a corporation
is that if the corporation goes away, the assets they can get
are contained within that. This is more problematic for him.”  Most Exposed  The information provided by BNDES follows a July 1 report
from Bank of America Corp. that estimated that the Rio de
Janeiro-based lender was the most exposed of Brazil’s banks to
Batista’s companies, having lent 4.9 billion reais, or 5.8
percent of the bank’s regulatory capital. Analyst Alessandro
Arlant, whose estimate is based on regulatory filings from
Batista companies, wrote that such findings may understate risks
to the banking system because information and disclosure is
poor.  Batista, who is now worth $4.1 billion, has seen his
fortune plummet by more than $30 billion since March 2012 after
failing repeatedly to meet the targets he had set for his
startup companies.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating on OGX to
CCC from B- yesterday, citing concern that the company won’t be
able to meet its debt commitments should it abandon its only
working field.  Loan Details  BNDES, in its written response to Bloomberg’s request,
declined to say how much of the loans were disbursed and repaid,
citing bank secrecy laws that prohibit the disclosure of such
information. BNDES didn’t specify what personal assets Batista
used to guarantee debts with the bank. A spokesman for BNDES in
Rio contacted after business hours declined to comment further.  A press official in  Rio de Janeiro  for EBX Group Co.,
Batista’s holding company, didn’t have an immediate comment when
contacted by  Bloomberg News  after business hours.  None of 19 so-called non-automatic loans originated by
BNDES since 2007 went to OGX, while six of the loans totaling
1.4 billion reais were indirect loans involving banks including
Banco Bradesco SA, Banco Itau BBA SA and Banco Votorantim SA,
according to the information provided by BNDES.  Port Project  Among the four loans backed by Batista’s personal wealth,
the largest was one for 1.3 billion reais to OSX Construcao
Naval SA, a subsidiary of OGX’s sister shipbuilding company  OSX
Brasil SA. (OSXB3)  Contracted in June 2012, Batista guaranteed 100
percent of the loan until the project is concluded, and 50
percent for the two years following, according to BNDES’s
statement, which didn’t provide details on the project or its
progress.  Batista also provided 100 percent guarantees for two loans
to MMX Porto  Sudeste SA (OPSE3B) , a port project that is part of iron-ore
miner MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA. One loan, passed through
Banco Bradesco SA, is for 450 million reais while the other, a
direct loan, is for 484.8 million reais. He also backed an
undisclosed portion of a loan for 12 million reais to private
clinic MD.X Barra Medical Center Ltda.  Separately, Batista pledged his 30 percent stake in the Acu
port project to back undisclosed loans by Banco Itau BBA SA,
according to a regulatory filing last night from his Centennial
Asset Participacoes Acu SA holding company. Publicly traded  LLX
Logistica SA (LLXL3)  owns the other 70 percent of the Acu port and is
responsible for building it.  Biggest Creditors  Among Batista’s biggest creditors is Sao Paulo-based Itau
Unibanco Holding SA, with about 5.5 billion reais in loans
outstanding, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said
in March, asking not to be identified because the matter is
private. Batista borrowed about 4.8 billion reais from Bradesco
and 1.6 billion reais from Grupo BTG Pactual, excluding a $1
billion  credit line  BTG provided that same month, the people
said. Batista used shares of his publicly traded companies as
collateral for an undisclosed portion of the loans, according to
the people.  Bradesco, BTG and Itau BBA press officers declined to
comment yesterday in e-mailed responses to questions.  Batista’s EBX Group said on June 13 it had restructured an
unspecified amount of debt, leaving it with only long-dated
liabilities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Madelene Pearson at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  