-- Battle Over F-16 Combat-Jet Upgrades Unfolds Amid New Plane Push
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-03T11:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/battle-over-f-16-combat-jet-upgrades-unfolds-amid-new-plane-push.html
The F-16 fighter jet, the most widely
flown western combat aircraft in its 35 years in service, is
getting a new lease on life as defense contractors  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  to  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  vie to upgrade existing fleets.  Singapore ,  Taiwan  and South Korea are among the countries
looking to modernize their aging single-engine combat planes,
with several thousand aircraft getting new radar, communications
gear and displays in coming years, said Alan Garwood, business
development director for London-based BAE.  The F-16 entered service in 1978 and remains in production
at Lockheed Martin for clients such as Iraq and Oman even as the
defense contractor shifts attention to the replacement F-35
Joint Strike Fighter, the Pentagon’s most expensive project
ever. With the program delayed and over budget, modernizing the
F-16 may extend by 50 percent the life of a combat jet typically
built to fly about 8,000 hours.  “There are some 1,100 F-16s Block 30 and up that qualify
for service life extension programs and mission-system
updates,” said Mark A. Bobbi, an analyst for defense at IHS
Research & Analysis Group. The modernization market may be worth
$12 billion through 2022, he said.  The  United Arab Emirates  operates among the most up-to-date
models, the F-16E/F, which participated in the air war in  Libya 
in 2011. By contrast, the U.S.,  South Korea , and Taiwan programs
represent by far the largest share of upgrades to be performed,
with more than 600 units of the more than 800 due to be
modernized in the coming decade, Bobbi said.  Battle Lines  The battle over who will manage the F-16 upgrades pits many
of the same companies against each other that are also
contesting sales of new combat jets.  South Korea is weighing a purchase of 60 jets, with
Lockheed Martin offering the JSF, Boeing Co. the F-15, and the
Typhoon, built by the Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH joint
venture involving BAE, also in the running. The government last
week announced a delay in awarding the contract as it sought
lower prices.  Lockheed Martin, maker of more than 4,000 F-16s flown by 26
air forces, will manage the upgrade of U.S.  Air Force  fighters
and expects to build on those ties to win business overseas,
said Pat Dewar, head of the newly established Lockheed Martin
International unit. Taiwan is set to follow the U.S., he said.  Electronics Upgrade  “The governments that want to have the U.S. common
configuration will be working with us,” he said. “The tie and
the relationship with the U.S. Air Force is extremely important
for most air forces and that is certainly one of the elements of
our value proposition.”  BAE Systems,  Europe ’s largest defense contractor, was
selected last year by South Korea to upgrade 130 F-16s, with
final negotiations continuing. Other candidates for the upgrade
include European air forces flying the F-16, including Denmark
and the Netherlands, Garwood said.  Boeing is “definitely interested” in pursuing F-16
upgrades as well, Chris Raymond, head of business development at
the Chicago-based planemaker’s defense unit. said during the
 Paris Air Show  last month. Boeing, maker of the rival F/A-18 and
F-15 jets, would draw on experience it gained converting F-16s
into target drones, Raymond said.  Defense electronics makers also have a stake in the
upgrade.  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  have developed
advanced radars to let F-16 pilots see further and track more
targets. Raytheon won the first contest to supply its sensor to
South Korea and is now awaiting the outcome of other campaigns,
Chief Financial Officer David Wajsgras said in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  