-- Bernanke Denies India to Mexico Rate Cuts as Currencies Sink
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-07-03T15:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/bernanke-denying-india-to-mexico-rate-cuts-as-currencies-sink.html
Traders who anticipated lower
interest rates in developing nations are reversing course as
prospects for reduced Federal Reserve economic stimulus sparks
the worst rout in emerging-market currencies since 2001.  Just a month ago, central bankers in  Mexico , India and
South Korea were expected to pare borrowing costs at least once,
according to  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by HSBC Holdings
Plc. Now, the measures show no chance of cuts.  Poland ’s central
bank said today that it has ended an easing cycle after lowering
the benchmark rate to a record low 2.5 percent. Traders
anticipate one more reduction in Hungary, instead of the two
they expected a month ago.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said June 19 that $85 billion
of monthly bond purchases may end by mid-2014, helping drive
this year’s 8.7 percent slide in India’s rupee and 6.5 percent
drop in the Polish zloty. Weakening currencies are threatening
to ignite inflation, forcing central banks in  emerging markets 
to curtail interest-rate cuts even as their economies expand at
the slowest pace since 2009.  “You’ve got this conundrum for the central banks where
they are suffering from weakening growth at the same time as
currency selloffs and capital withdrawals make it difficult for
them to respond,” Matthew Lehmann, a strategist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in a June 25 interview from New York.
“There’s very limited room to ease.”  Faltering Growth  Developing-country  currencies  tumbled an average 5.4
percent in the first half, the worst for the period since 2001,
as investors pulled $32 billion from stock and bond funds in a
reversal of the “monetary tsunami” that Brazilian President
Dilma Rousseff said was pouring into emerging markets in March
2012. South Africa’s rand led declines, plunging 14 percent.
 Brazil ’s real sank 8.1 percent while South Korea’s won declined
6.8 percent.  The rupee dropped 0.9 percent to 60.22 per dollar in Mumbai
today, coming within less than 1 percent of its all-time low.
The won weakened 0.9 percent, the most in two weeks, to 1,143.75
per dollar, while the rand lost 0.9 percent to 10.0857 per
dollar as of 11:25 a.m. in New York.  Outflows from emerging markets are quickening, with
investors withdrawing a record $5.7 billion from bond funds in
the week through June 26 after Bernanke said he would cut back
stimulus as the U.S. labor market improves, EPFR Global data
compiled by Morgan Stanley show.  Growth is faltering in emerging markets just as it shows
signs of strengthening in the world’s biggest economy.
Developing nations expanded 4 percent in the first quarter, the
least since 2009 and down from average expansion of 6.4 percent
over the past decade, according to Capital Economics.  Slowing Inflation  Lowering interest rates to counter the slowdown could
trigger additional currency declines and drive up prices on
imported products, said Steffen Reichold, an emerging-market
economist at Stone Harbor Investment Partners LP, which oversees
$66 billion.  “A large majority of the central banks are done,”
Reichold said in a June 26 telephone interview. “They want to
keep the rates steady to see how long the pressure on the
currencies will last. Nobody will do anything aggressive.”  While the currency losses threaten to fuel inflation, the
most recent data show consumer price increases have been easing.
The annual inflation rate in developing economies fell to 3.38
percent in May, the lowest in at least two years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That slowdown will help allow policy
makers in countries including  Hungary  and Mexico to reduce
interest rates further, according to Credit Suisse AG.  ‘Devastating Impact’  “You can get to the point where central banks need to
prioritize and stabilize the exchange rates,” Kasper Bartholdy,
head of macro analysis in the emerging market trading group at
Credit Suisse, said in a June 26 interview from  London . “We are
not there yet.”  Poland’s Central Bank Governor Marek Belka said at a press
conference today that the benchmark interest rate will remain
steady for “quite a few months,” following a 0.25 percentage
point reduction. Poland has cut borrowing costs by 2.25
percentage points since November to fight the worst economic
slowdown in four years.  Andrzej Kazmierczak, a member of Narodowy Bank Polski’s
rate-setting panel, said June 21 another cut may worsen the
zloty’s slump and have a “devastating impact” on bonds. The
currency slid 3.4 percent against the euro in the April-to-June
period, the worst quarterly drop since 2011.  Indian Rates  In  India , six-month swap rates have jumped 20 basis points
over the past month to 7.47 percent, indicating traders expect
the central bank to hold the rate steady through year-end,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and HSBC.  The Reserve Bank of India kept the repurchase  rate  at 7.25
percent on June 17 after having cut it in the three previous
meetings as  growth  slowed to the weakest pace in a decade.  The rupee plunged to a record low of 60.765 per dollar on
June 26, fanning inflation that has stayed above 9 percent for
15 straight months. The central bank said after its June 17
meeting that it needs to “be vigilant” to shifts in sentiment
and capital flows.  “The rupee’s sharp fall means rate cuts will be
postponed,” Arvind Sampath, Mumbai-based head of treasury at
Fullerton India Credit Co., owned by a unit of Temasek Holdings
Pte., said in a phone interview on June 26. “The central bank
will play a wait-and-watch game.”  Brazil and  Indonesia  have even begun to raise interest
rates for the first time since 2011 to tame inflation. Policy
makers in  Turkey , South Africa and India will join them in
coming months to attract foreign investment and shore up their
currencies, said  Bhanu Baweja , the global head of emerging-market fixed-income and foreign-exchange at UBS AG.  “You have a potential exit of capital, and that suddenly
leads to money market tightening,” said Baweja in a June 26
interview from London. “You can anchor currency expectations by
increasing the costs of capital.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  