-- Biggest S. Africa Platinum Union Refuses to Sign Mines Pact
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-07-03T15:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/biggest-s-africa-platinum-union-refuses-to-sign-mine-peace-pact.html
The biggest union at the world’s
three largest platinum mines refused to sign an agreement that
seeks to bring stability to the mining industry in South Africa,
which has been plagued by strikes and violence.  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union’s
leaders left the meeting about the accord in Pretoria, the
capital, without signing. Other  labor organizations , mining
companies, and government departments signed the pact.  “They do need a bit of space, and I think they also will
have to consult,” Mineral Resources Minister Susan Shabangu
said in an interview in Pretoria. “The tone, the language
today, and their commitment to the actual document shows they
will be coming back to sign.”  Labor rivalry spurred President  Jacob Zuma  to appoint
Deputy President  Kgalema Motlanthe  to broker a solution by
hosting the talks between the unions and companies. The
competition has led to three worker deaths since May and has cut
0.3 percentage point off growth this year. This followed the
killings of at least 44 people, including 34 killed by police in
one day, near the South African operations of  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the
third-largest platinum producer, last year.  “We’re leaving,” AMCU President Joseph Mathunjwa said
when asked whether the union will sign the accord.  AMCU Objections  The union raised objections over the dismissal of about
1,000 of its members at  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) ’s South African
chrome mines and the loss of jobs at the Vaal River operations
of  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  last year,  Lesiba Seshoka , spokesman
for the rival  National Union of Mineworkers , said in Pretoria.
The AMCU also spoke out against the NUM’s Labour Court
application on the validity of membership forms at Lonmin, and
asked to consult with members on today’s pact, he said.  “They’ve got other issues but they’re raising them at the
wrong platform,” Seshoka said.  A previous attempt to restore peace in mines in the nation,
which has the world’s biggest known reserves of platinum, failed
even as all unions, including the AMCU, and the biggest mine
operators agreed to the pact, which Shabangu brokered in
February and March.  No Option  “Failure is not an option as this will accelerate the
creeping destruction of one of  South Africa ’s most important
industries and inhibit the investment support that the country
so urgently needs,” Bheki Sibiya, chief executive officer of
the Chamber of Mines, which represents companies in the
industry, wrote in the Johannesburg-based Business Day newspaper
yesterday.  Falling precious-metal prices and higher costs have
squeezed South Africa’s gold and platinum producers, who are
facing demands from labor unions to as much as double wages for
entry-level workers. More than half of South Africa’s gold and
platinum operations are in loss-making positions, Sibiya said.  Today’s pact sets out processes that will see that all
parties working together to ensure stability in mines, according
to a statement handed to reporters in  Pretoria  today.  The “government will act decisively to enforce the rule of
law, maintain peace during strikes and other protests relating
to labor disputes, ensure protection of life, property and the
advancement of the rights of all,” it said.  AngloGold Falls  The rand depreciated 0.9 percent 10.0852 per dollar at 5:17
p.m. in Johannesburg, extending its drop this year to 16
percent, the most among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  “They came with new preconditions that were not raised at
the meetings last week,” Gideon du Plessis, the general
secretary of the Solidarity union, said of the AMCU. “They come
with bread-and-butter issues but they have entirely unrealistic
expectations.”  AngloGold, the world’s third-biggest and South Africa’s
largest producer of the metal, extended declines, losing 4.9
percent, the most in a week, to 139 rand by the close in
Johannesburg.  “They have nothing against the framework,” Motlanthe told
reporters, referring to the AMCU. “It is theirs as much as it
is ours. They had no preconditions. Investors are not interested
in this document, they’re interested in a stable  mining
industry .”  The AMCU’s leadership asked to be given the chance to
consult with its members, Motlanthe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  