-- BlueCrest Hires 3 Credit Traders as Wall Street Retreats
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-07-03T15:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/bluecrest-hires-3-credit-traders-as-wall-street-retreats.html
BlueCrest Capital Management LLP, the
$36 billion hedge-fund firm run by  Michael Platt , hired three
credit traders as  Wall Street ’s biggest banks pull back from
riskier businesses.  The firm boosted its credit-derivatives unit with the hires
of Simon Gee, previously a managing director at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Sid Gowda from Credit Suisse Group AG, and Daniel Escobar, formerly of Arrowgrass Capital Partners LLP, according
to three people familiar with the matter. They’ll join the
firm’s London office later this year and report to  Andrew Silver , said the people, who asked not to be named because the
moves haven’t been publicly announced.  BlueCrest has more than doubled its assets since the end of
2009 as banks comply with new regulations enacted after the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. It’s seeking
to create an “investment-bank quality” trading group that
avoids big bets on the direction of entire markets and instead
profits from smaller market anomalies, according to its  website .  The firm, co-founded in 2000 by Platt, a former JPMorgan
Chase & Co. proprietary trader, is expanding as the world’s
biggest banks face higher global  capital requirements  and the
2010 Dodd-Frank Act in the U.S. The rules are aimed at
preventing another financial crisis like the one in 2008 that
led to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Asset Growth  BlueCrest has boosted its assets by about $19 billion since
the end of 2009 as a fifth year of short-term  interest rates 
near zero and unprecedented bond buying by the  Federal Reserve 
pushes investors into riskier investments such as corporate
credit.  Gowda had worked at Credit Suisse for eight years trading
an index of credit-default swaps, according to one of the people
familiar with the matter. Gee had been at Goldman Sachs since
2000, according to regulatory filings. Escobar worked at
Arrowgrass through June 14 after joining the hedge-fund from
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in 2009, Financial Conduct Authority  records 
show.  Gowda and Gee declined to comment, and Escobar didn’t
return calls to his mobile phone. Ed Orlebar, a BlueCrest
spokesman, declined to comment, as did Tiffany Galvin, a Goldman
Sachs spokeswoman, Drew Benson, of Credit Suisse, and Nick Lord,
a representative for Arrowgrass, the London-based hedge fund
started by former Deutsche Bank proprietary traders after they
left the lender in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  