-- Bolivia Says Morales’s Travels Entangled by Snowden Hunt
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l ,   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-07-03T17:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/bolivia-says-morales-s-travels-entangled-by-snowden-hunt.html
The airplane carrying Bolivian
President Evo Morales from a Moscow energy conference resumed
its journey after an unplanned stop in Vienna prompted by
suspicion that fugitive U.S. leaker Edward Snowden was aboard.  France ,  Italy , Portugal and Spain originally caused the
Bolivian delegation’s 14-hour delay in the Austrian capital
after refusing overflight rights, Morales said, prompting calls
for an emergency meeting of South American leaders. Spanish
insistence on searching the plane during a planned refueling
stop in the Canary Islands prolonged the standoff.  “This is a provocation to Bolivia and to all Latin
Americans,” Morales told reporters in Vienna before departing.
“I have the duty to protect the rights of my position. I am the
president of a people.”  Morales had his trip disrupted amid increasing U.S.
pressure for Snowden’s extradition. The former National Security
Agency contractor remained in limbo at an airport in Moscow
after withdrawing a request for asylum in  Russia . He has sought
asylum instead in 20 other countries, including Bolivia and
Austria, according to the anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks.  Snowden revealed himself last month as the source of leaks
on top-secret U.S. National Security Agency programs that
collect phone and Internet data. U.S. prosecutors are seeking
his return and have filed theft and espionage charges against
the former employee of government contractor  Booz Allen Hamilton
Holding Corp. (BAH)   International Norms  Morales’s airplane will refuel without being searched on
Spain’s Canary Islands to finish the 7,700 kilometer (4,785
mile) flight to La Paz, said Ricardo Martinez, a Bolivian
diplomat stationed in Austria.  “Spain has authorized the Bolivian president’s plane to
make a stopover,” Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said
today at a press conference broadcast from Berlin. “The
important thing is that Snowden isn’t on that plane.”  Ambassadors and consuls from Spain, France, Portugal and
Italy have been called to explain the incident to Bolivia’s
Foreign Minister, Vice President Alvaro Garcia Linera told
reporters in La Paz today. Argentine President  Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner  called the flight disruption a
“humiliation” for South America.  Morales is expected to arrive in La Paz between 7 p.m. and
9 p.m. local time after a stop in Fortaleza,  Brazil , Garcia
Linera said, according to  state news agency  ABI.  No Stowaways  Austrian officials checked the airplane and found “there
was no stowaway on board,” Foreign Minister Michael Spindelegger told journalists at the airport. Morales said he
was unaware of any search conducted by Austrian officials.  “According to international norms the space inside a
presidential airplane is inviolable,” Morales told reporters,
citing the  Vienna Convention . The 1961 treaty, signed by over
180 countries and which forms the legal basis for diplomatic
immunity, says “the means of transport shall be immune from
search.”  “This all comes from a rumor that was begun by the U.S.
State Department,” said Bolivian Defense Minister Ruben
Saavedra Soto in Vienna, who was one of five others with Morales
on the plane. “It’s a rumor completely based on a lie. At no
point was Mr. Snowden aboard the President of Bolivia’s
airplane.”  Rejected Bids  Austria , the Netherlands, Switzerland, Spain,  Norway  and
Ireland all said yesterday that any asylum requests by Snowden
can only be considered when made inside their territory or at
the border. Poland turned down his asylum bid, saying it didn’t
meet the requirements for political refuge, and  India  said it
saw “no reason” to shelter him. Italy is “evaluating the
situation” and will make a decision “very soon,” Ansa
reported. Germany rejected an asylum bid yesterday saying
Snowden doesn’t fulfill the conditions.  Snowden, whose U.S. passport was revoked, can’t leave the
Moscow airport transit zone without a new travel document. He
dropped his request for asylum in Russia after Russian President
Vladimir Putin said July 1 that the American must stop hurting
U.S. interests if he wants to remain there.  ‘Rotten Colonialism’  U.S. officials have been contacting countries Snowden might
approach for asylum or pass through on the way to a third
country to provide “reasons why Mr. Snowden should be returned
to the United States and face charges,” State Department
spokeswoman Jen Psaki said yesterday in  Washington .  Morales told Russia’s RT Television network yesterday
before his unscheduled stop in Vienna that Bolivia was ready to
consider Snowden’s request for refuge. Ecuador’s Foreign
Minister Ricardo Patino said his country is still weighing
asylum for Snowden although it’s not helping him leave Moscow.  A U.S. defense official said last night the Pentagon didn’t
ask North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies to deny overflight
rights to the plane carrying Morales. The official asked not to
be identified in discussing the matter citing diplomatic
sensitivities.  “President Evo Morales was held hostage by imperialism,”
Bolivian Vice-President Garcia Linera said in  a statement  on the
government website. Bolivia called for an emergency meeting of
the Union of South American Nations to confront the “rotten
colonialism” that delayed Morales.  Ecuador ’s Foreign Ministry said the 12-nation bloc will
convene a meeting over the incident, Ecuador’s Foreign Ministry
said in a Twitter statement today without elaborating when the
meeting would be held.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ken Fireman at 
 kfireman1@bloomberg.net  