-- Bombardier Weighs Mexico Rail Bids as Europe Market Slows
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-07-03T13:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/bombardier-weighs-mexico-rail-as-europe-stalls-corporate-canada.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , seeking to diversify
the company’s rail business outside recession-mired Europe, is
considering bidding on passenger-train projects in  Mexico  and
elsewhere in Latin America.  A half-dozen possibilities have been identified in Mexico,
Alfredo Nolasco, head of Bombardier’s Mexican unit, said in a
telephone interview. The Montreal-based company is also
“actively looking for bids” in countries such as Chile, Peru,
Colombia and  Panama , said Nolasco, who declined to give details.  Bombardier already builds passenger rail cars in Mexico,
which is attracting attention in the rail-equipment industry
after President Enrique Pena Nieto proposed reviving intercity
passenger service phased out in the 1990s. Sales there would
help wean Bombardier from a European market that provided about
63 percent of its $8.1 billion in 2012 rail revenue.  “We’ve arrived at a moment that’s extremely important for
us,” Nolasco said from Mexico City. “We want to participate in
our home market, in the Mexican market. Now that President Pena
Nieto has announced projects of investing in passenger trains
and structures, we want to supply the materials that are going
to be running on the Mexican tracks.”  ‘Right Time’  Bombardier’s Mexico rail plant in Ciudad Sahagun, about 90
kilometers (56 miles) northeast of Mexico City, employs about
2,000 people. The company’s  rail products  include locomotives,
passenger coaches for commuter and intercity trains, and rapid-transit cars, including more than 1,000 of its R142 model used
on  New York  City’s subway system. In 2010, Bombardier led a
group that won a $1.44 billion contract to build a monorail for
Sao Paulo.  Mexico has about 100 billion pesos ($7.66 billion) of
passenger rail investments in the works, government officials
have said this year. Details on planned spending may be released
when Pena Nieto presents a national infrastructure program for
his six-year term, which he said on June 20 would be announced
soon.  “It’s the right time to be looking at Mexico and Latin
America,” Louis Hebert, a management professor at business
school HEC Montreal, said in a telephone interview. Countries
such as Mexico feature “traffic congestion and deficient
infrastructure that goes back decades. Everything must either be
built or rebuilt. There is going to be huge demand.”  Americas Growth  Adding sales in the Americas would be a boost for
Bombardier, the world’s third-largest maker of railway equipment
by sales, according to a February 2013 study by Paris-based
research institute Xerfi Global.  China ’s CNR Corp. and another
Chinese company, CSR Corp., rank No. 1 and 2, according to
Xerfi.  Europe’s 18-month  recession  helped shrink Bombardier’s rail
business to 49 percent of the company’s total last year, down
from 52 percent as recently as 2010, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. Regional jets, corporate aircraft and turboprops
make up the rest.  Bombardier’s widely traded Class B shares have gained 25
percent this year through yesterday to C$4.70, outpacing the 2.1
percent drop for  Canada ’s benchmark Standard & Poor’s/Toronto
Stock Exchange Composite Index. Bombardier fell 0.4 percent to
C$4.68 at 9:50 a.m. in Toronto today.  Unife, the European rail industry association,  forecasts 
sales growth in the Americas is poised to exceed the global
average. North America’s gain will be 18 percent through 2015-17
from 2009-11, topping the world market’s 16.5 percent rise.
Equipment sales will surge 50 percent in the rest of the
Americas.  Tremendous Capacity  Bombardier estimated last year it built about 65 percent of
all subway cars in Mexico’s capital and three-quarters of
Monterrey’s urban transit system fleet from the Ciudad Sahagun
rail plant.  That facility could help Bombardier’s quest to win Mexican
contracts, said David Tyerman, a Canaccord Genuity Inc. analyst
in Toronto who visited the plant two years ago.  “Presumably, it would put them in a good position to have
a shot at winning some business,” Tyerman, who rates Bombardier
a buy, said in a telephone interview. “The Mexican plant is
very large, and they have a tremendous amount of capacity.”  Proposed train lines linking Mexico City with Queretaro,
about 210 kilometers northwest of the capital, and Toluca, less
than 50 kilometers from the city’s western sections, would cost
about 77 billion pesos, according to Hernan Villarreal, a
transportation official at the Ministry of Communications and
Transportation.  Bids Due  Tender offers on those projects will be ready in 2014’s
first quarter, according to Villareal, while technical studies
are under way on a third line, catering to tourists on the
Yucatan peninsula. Other projects under consideration include
light-rail expansions in Monterrey and Guadalajara, according to
government projections this year.  Bids for the Monterrey project are due by July 16, and the
company may pursue the work alone or as part of a group,
according to Nolasco.  Benito Rodriguez, a spokesman for Monterrey’s light rail
system, did not reply to requests for comment by telephone and
e-mail. Officials of Jalisco state, which contains Guadalajara,
referred questions to Bernardo Gutierrez, the local
representative of the federal government’s Ministry of
Communications and Transportation.  “People need an economical, efficient means of
transportation,” Gutierrez said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  Rivals Prowling  The main goal for Bombardier in Mexico is to sell trains,
Nolasco said. “But we can sell signaling, we can sell
engineering, we can sell the communications facilities. We will
look at each project individually. Depending on the scope, there
might be different choices.”  Competitors are circling, too.  Siemens AG (SIE)  is awaiting
details on the Mexican rail projects, said Markus Mildner, the
Munich-based company’s executive vice president for
infrastructure and cities in Mexico and Central America.  Alstom SA (ALO)  “is going to participate in the coming tenders”
for urban rail work in Mexico, Isabelle Tourancheau, a
spokeswoman, said yesterday by e-mail. Levallois-Perret, France-based Alstom can work with local and international partners,
depending on the project, she said without being more specific.  Bombardier is “extremely happy to see that the Mexican
passenger railroad system is coming back to life, which is great
news -- not only for Bombardier but for the country,” Nolasco
said. “This is something that Mexico eagerly needs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  