-- Border Bill to Cut Illegal Immigration By Up to One-Half
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-07-03T16:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/border-bill-to-cut-illegal-immigration-by-up-to-one-half.html
The Senate’s immigration bill would
cut illegal immigration to the U.S. by one-third to one-half
over a decade, the  Congressional Budget Office  said.  The net increase in the  U.S. population  would be 9.6
million by 2023, according to an  estimate  by the CBO, Congress’s
nonpartisan scorekeeper. Today’s estimate takes into account
$46.3 billion in border-security measures added to the bill,
including the doubling the number of Border Patrol agents.  The reduction in illegal immigration “would not be
immediate, as it would take several years before” the
Department of  Homeland Security  “could hire the full number of
Border Patrol agents called for in the act,” the CBO said.  The Senate bill, passed June 27, would combine the border-security provisions with a path to citizenship for about 11
million undocumented immigrants now in the U.S. House Republican
leaders say their chamber won’t pass the Senate bill. House
Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican, has
said he prefers a piecemeal approach to immigration legislation.  The CBO said the Senate bill’s reduction in illegal
immigration would be larger than the 25 percent reduction
projected by the scorekeeper under an earlier version of the
bill, before the border-security provisions were added.  The additional border-control spending -- part of an
agreement that secured the votes to pass the bill -- reduces the
estimate of how much the plan would cut the U.S. budget  deficit .
The Senate-passed bill would trim the  federal budget  deficit by
about $135 billion, compared with $175 billion in the earlier
estimate.  The Senate passed the bill, S. 744, on a 68-32 vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  