-- Boston Celtics Make Butler’s Brad Stevens Youngest Coach in NBA
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-07-04T04:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/boston-celtics-hire-butler-coach-brad-stevens-to-succeed-rivers.html
The Boston Celtics handed  Butler
University ’s Brad Stevens his first coaching assignment in the
 National Basketball Association  a week after agreeing to let Doc Rivers leave for the  Los Angeles Clippers .  At 36, Stevens, who has never played or coached in the NBA,
will be the youngest team leader in the league. He’ll sign a
six-year contract, the Boston Herald reported, after the Celtics
said in a statement last night that terms wouldn’t be disclosed.  In six years as coach at Butler, Stevens took the Bulldogs
to the National Collegiate Athletic Association championship
game in 2010 and 2011. He had a 166-49 record, including a 12-5
mark in the NCAA tournament, and won four conference regular-season championships and three league tournament titles. His 166
wins are the most for an NCAA Division I basketball coach over
the first six years of his career.  “Though he is young, I see Brad as a great leader who
leads with impeccable character and a strong work ethic,”
Celtics President of Basketball Operations Danny Ainge said.
“His teams always play hard and execute on both ends of the
court. Brad is a coach who has already enjoyed lots of
success.”  The last Boston coach hired from college basketball was
 Rick Pitino , who joined in 1997 from the University of Kentucky.
The Celtics never reached the playoffs in four seasons under
Pitino, going 102-146 during his tenure.  17th Coach  Stevens will be Boston’s 17th coach after it agreed to let
Rivers leave for Los Angeles in the NBA’s first swap of a coach
for compensation since 2007. Rivers will sign a three-year, $21
million deal with the Clippers, ESPN said at the time.  The Celtics agreed to release Rivers from the final three
years of his contract on June 25 in exchange for a 2015
unprotected first-round draft pick.  Rivers, 51, coached the Celtics for nine seasons, guiding
the team to seven playoff appearances and the 2008 championship,
their record 17th NBA title.  Stevens, who left  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  to volunteer with the
 Butler Bulldogs  before the 2001-02 season, will take charge of a
Celtics team in transition. Boston finished the 2012-13 regular
season with a 41-40 record for seventh place in the Eastern
Conference and lost in the first round of the postseason to the
 New York Knicks , their earliest exit since missing the playoffs
in 2006-07.  Rivers won the championship in his fourth season in Boston
with a team led by  Kevin Garnett  and  Paul Pierce . Boston agreed
in principle to trade Garnett, Pierce and  Jason Terry  to the
Brooklyn Nets, ESPN reported June 27.  Nets Trade  The Nets, who hired  Jason Kidd  as coach three weeks ago,
will send forward  Gerald Wallace  and first-round draft picks in
2014, 2016 and 2018 to Boston, ESPN said. The Celtics also will
get Tornike Shengelia, Reggie Evans, Keith Bogans and rights to
the expiring contract of Kris Humphries.  After coaching Butler to its most successful season in
2010, Stevens was rewarded with a 12-year contract extension by
the Indianapolis-based school. The Bulldogs lost the NCAA final
to top-seeded  Duke University , snapping a 25-game winning
streak, the longest in the nation.  The Bulldogs finished the season with a school-record 33
wins against five losses and became the first Horizon League
team to reach the NCAA Final Four. The Bulldogs went 18-0 in the
Horizon League to become the only unbeaten conference champion
in the nation that season.  Butler, which is set to play in the  Big East  for the first
time this season, also reached the 2011 NCAA title game, losing
53-41 to the University of Connecticut.  “Our family is thrilled for the opportunity given to us by
the leadership of the  Boston Celtics , but it is emotional to
leave a place that we have called home for the past 13 years,”
Stevens said in a statement on Butler’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Sillup
at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 