-- Brookfield Declines as Fitch Cuts Credit Rating: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-07-03T16:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/brookfield-declines-as-fitch-cuts-credit-rating-sao-paulo-mover.html
Brookfield Incorporacoes SA (BISA3) , the
worst-performing homebuilder on the Ibovespa this year, sank to
a record as  Fitch Ratings  cut its credit ranking, citing cost
overruns and contract cancellations that have eroded profit.  The shares  dropped  1.4 percent to 1.38 reais at 12:43 p.m.
in Sao Paulo. A close at that level would be the lowest since
the stock started trading in October 2006. The Ibovespa advanced
0.9 percent.  Fitch lowered Brookfield’s classification by one level to
B+, four levels below investment grade, after its net-debt ratio
rose to 29.3 times earnings before before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the 12 months through March,
the ratings company said in a statement. The cut comes after the
homebuilder, which posted earnings that trailed analysts’
estimates in eight of the past nine quarters, added debt to fund
expansion while profit slumped, Fitch said.  “The company’s credit metrics deteriorated considerably in
2012 and Fitch does not expect they will return to parameters
compatible with the previous rating in the medium term,”
analysts including Jose Roberto Romero wrote in the report.
“Operating results continue to be strongly affected by costs
above budget and by high cancellations of sales contracts.”  In the 12 months ended in March, Brookfield’s adjusted
Ebitda was 102 million reais ($45 million), compared with 667
million reais two years ago, according to Fitch. Over the same
period, net debt increased to 3 billion reais from 2.3 billion
reais, reflecting a high volume of projects and working capital
needs, the ratings company said.  Brookfield’s adjusted net loss was 47.7 million reais in
the first quarter of this year, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The average estimate of six analysts was for a profit
of 27.5 million reais. The company said in a May 8 regulatory
filing that the quarterly results were hurt by “problems in the
construction of some projects, which caused an extra cost of
10.4 million reais.”  Shares in the Rio de Janeiro-based company have fallen 60
percent this year in the biggest decline in the BM&FBovespa Real
Estate index, which lost 26 percent during the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  