-- BSG Resources-Tied Cilins Denied Bail in Bribery Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-07-03T17:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/bsg-resources-tied-cilins-denied-bail-in-bribery-case.html
A French citizen with ties to BSG
Resources Ltd. was denied bail while he waits for trial on
charges he interfered with a U.S. grand jury probe of claims
that BSGR paid bribes to win mining rights in Guinea.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in  Manhattan  today ruled
that Frederic Cilins, 50, presents “a serious risk of flight,”
throwing out an earlier $15 million bond set for Cilins’
release. Pauley also today scheduled a Dec. 2 trial.  Cilins is charged with offering money to Mamadie Toure,
whom prosecutors claim was the fourth wife of Guinea’s late
President Lansana Conte, to lie to U.S. investigators about the
alleged bribery scheme and to give him original contracts sought
by the grand jury so he could destroy them. Prosecutors said
they have recordings of meetings and phone calls between Cilins
and Toure, who is cooperating with the investigation.  Cilins claims the contracts are fake and that he met with
Toure to try to prevent her from extorting money from him and
BSGR. He has pleaded not guilty.  On May 15, U.S. Magistrate Judge Frank Maas in Manhattan
ordered Cilins held on $15 million bond to be secured by $5
million in cash or property and the signatures of five
financially responsible people.  Armed Security  Maas also said Cilins would be required to stay in his
Turnberry Isle,  Florida , vacation home, with electronic
monitoring and be guarded 24 hours a day by armed security. His
lawyer, Michelle Smith, argued that he should be released after
posting $3.6 million in real estate. Both sides appealed the
bail ruling.  “This court finds that Mr. Cilins is a serious risk of
flight and that there are no conditions that will ensure his
appearance in court,” Pauley said today at the end of a two-hour hearing. Cilins is in custody in New York.  Smith declined to comment on the ruling. She said she will
consult with her client to decide whether to appeal the decision
to the federal appeals court in New York.  Cilins has a “very close personal relationship” with Beny Steinmetz, who controls BSGR and is the wealthiest person in
 Israel , a U.S. prosecutor claimed in April. The government said
Cilins was negotiating with Toure on behalf of BSGR and
Steinmetz when he was arrested April 14 at the airport in
Jacksonville, Florida.  Contract Destruction  In a sworn complaint dated April 15, Peter Kilpatrick, a
special agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, said
that Cilins told Toure in a March 20 phone call that an
unidentified “high-ranking individual” within the company had
agreed to pay her the amount of money she requested for the
destruction of the contracts.  Cilins is charged with witness tampering, obstructing a
criminal investigation and destruction of evidence in a federal
investigation. The witness-tampering and record-destruction
charges carry maximum prison terms of 20 years.  “Beny Steinmetz denies any knowledge of wrongdoing in
relation to any ongoing FBI investigations,” Conal Walsh, a
spokesman for Steinmetz with Powerscourt, said in an e-mail last
month. “Mr. Steinmetz has an impeccable reputation and has
faced no evidenced allegations anywhere.”  Cilins said he worked in 2005 and 2006 for BSGR as a go-between with  Guinea  in the company’s efforts to secure mining
rights in the country’s Simandou region.  Mining Rights  In a court filing, Cilins said Toure wasn’t actually
married to Conte, who died in 2008 after ruling the West African
nation for 24 years. He claimed Toure is lying to prosecutors to
remain in the U.S. and avoid prosecution in Guinea.  Prosecutors claim Cilins and others visited Toure in Guinea
when Conte was in office to offer $12 million to Toure and
senior members of Conte’s government for their help in securing
the mining rights. The arrangement was allegedly reflected in a
series of contracts that Cilins later tried to get Toure to
“urgently destroy,” according to the government.  Smith today argued that her client can’t be prosecuted
because the contracts are fake.  Prosecutors said Cilins told Toure, in a recorded
conversation, that he went to an unidentified co-conspirator to
talk about the U.S. investigation. In a whisper, Cilins said he
told the co-conspirator that Toure would never betray him or
turn over documents, according to a transcript of the
conversation quoted in a court filing by prosecutors last month.  “He told me ‘That’s good, but I want you to go see -- I
want you to tell me, ‘I saw that the documents [noise] were
destroyed; it’s over, there are no more documents,’” according
to the filing.  Cilins, whose wife, four children and other family live in
Antibes,  France , may try to flee if released before trial,
prosecutors argued. Cilins said that he and his partners, Avi
LevRan and Michael Noy, have done business in  Africa ,  Canada  and
South America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  