-- BTG Said to Cancel Credit Line to Batista’s Companies
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-07-03T23:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/btg-said-to-cancel-credit-line-to-batista-s-companies.html
Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11) , the investment
bank controlled by billionaire  Andre Esteves , canceled a $1
billion line of credit to  Eike Batista ’s companies that was part
of a strategic agreement announced in March, said a person with
direct knowledge of the transaction.  BTG, based in Sao Paulo, made the decision after a review
of the arrangement, the person said, asking not to be identified
because details haven’t been made public. The person didn’t say
when BTG made the decision.  Under the initial agreement, BTG would provide financial
advice and Esteves would co-run a strategic and financial
management committee for Batista’s six publicly traded
companies. BTG provided Batista’s holding company, EBX Group
Co., with a $1 billion line of credit as part of the deal, a
person with direct knowledge of the accord said on March 7.  The press departments of EBX and BTG declined to comment.  Since the BTG-EBX agreement was announced, shares in
Batista’s flagship company OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
have tumbled 87 percent to a record low 39 centavos after the
oil producer failed to meet operational targets. The sell-off
intensified this week after OGX scrapped offshore projects and
warned it may stop producing oil next year.  Batista has seen his fortune plummet by more than $30
billion since March 2012. Standard & Poor’s cut its rating on
OGX to CCC from B- yesterday, citing concern that the company
won’t be able to meet its debt commitments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  