-- Cairo Smoke Signaled Brotherhood Ouster as Army Bit Back
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-07-04T12:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/cairo-smoke-signaled-brotherhood-s-ouster-as-military-bites-back.html
The Muslim Brotherhood’s move to a
multistory headquarters on a hill overlooking Cairo was supposed
to be a symbol of the Islamist group’s triumph over decades of
secular, military-led regimes. A year later, it was set on fire
and the president it backed was deposed.  The army suspended the Brotherhood-backed constitution
yesterday and removed President Mohamed Mursi, as the dominant
force in Egyptian politics after the 2011 uprising against  Hosni Mubarak  became a target of rage against cronyism and economic
hardship. Egypt’s prosecutor ordered the arrest of the
Brotherhood’s General Guide Mohammed Badie and his deputy
Khairat el-Shater.  The backlash has undone in months a rise to power that took
85 years. It also risks reverberating across the Middle East,
undermining gains by Islamist groups inspired by the
Brotherhood’s journey from prison to the presidency.  “The collapse of the Muslim Brotherhood will lead to
dangerous consequences for this region, creating despair among
young Islamists who could be radicalized,” Khalil al-Anani, a
political analyst at Durham University in the U.K. and author of
a 2007 book on the group, said from Cairo before Mursi’s ouster.
Losing power in  Egypt  “would have a significant impact on
political Islam movements in the Arab world,” he said.  Defense Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi, who was  promoted  to
the post by Mursi in August, announced in a televised broadcast
that an early presidential election would be held after Mursi
failed to meet the demands of the military’s 48-hour ultimatum
on July 1 to end a political impasse. Mursi called it a coup.  Retaliatory Coup  Eleven people were killed and 516 injured in clashes
between Mursi’s supporters and opponents after the army issued
its statement, the health ministry said.  Mohammad Saad Al-Katatni, former parliament speaker and
head of the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party, was
arrested after the military’s announcement. Rashad Bayoumi, a
deputy leader of the Islamist group, was also detained on
allegations of having escaped from prison during the 2011
uprising, Egyptian security official Yasser Abdel Raouf said.  “This is a military coup and a retaliation of the old
regime,” Brotherhood spokesman Gehad El-Haddad told Bloomberg
Television. “We will continue down the path of democracy. We
are committed to democracy.”  ‘Powerful Player’  Even as the Brotherhood retreats, it will remain a
“powerful player” in Egyptian politics, according to Shadi Hamid, director of research at the Brookings Doha Center.  “You can still have parliamentary elections in which the
Freedom and Justice Party wins a plurality,” he said before the
military’s announcement.  Not everybody agrees.  While “political Islam isn’t going to go away” some
groups “probably will think that violence is the only way to
establish Islamic rule, and others will continue to participate
in electoral politics,” said Firas Abi Ali, a Middle East
analyst at research firm  IHS in London .  Formed in 1928 by Hassan El-Banna, a schoolteacher who
preached the adoption of Islamic law and principles as the way
to end Western domination, the Egyptian Brotherhood helped spawn
similar movements from the Gaza Strip to Jordan and  Syria .  The struggle between the generals and the Islamist group
has been a prominent feature since the 1952 military coup that
toppled Egypt’s monarchy.  Nasser’s Attack  President Gamal Abdel Nasser, who championed unity under
the Arab rather than Muslim banner, clamped down on the
Brotherhood after accusing it of an assassination attempt in
Alexandria. Successive governments at times tolerated the group
and at times cracked down on its leaders, sending them to prison
and confiscating their financial assets.  Decades of suppression left the Brotherhood suspicious of
institutions such as the military, judiciary and the police,
contributing to their failure to build alliances, said Hamid of
the Brookings Doha Center.  “Making the transition from opposition to power was
difficult for them,” Hamid said from the Qatari capital.
“Brotherhood officials were saying they were in the opposition
even after they won several elections.”  Moving from opposition to power in Egypt, the group
inherited institutions reeling under decades of mismanagement
and corruption and a population in which one in five lived in
poverty and the unemployment rate was rising.  ‘Building Consensus’  Instead of “building consensus” to revive the economy,
though, the Brotherhood moved too quickly to consolidate
political power, according to opposition groups and analysts.  “Now economic unrest is occurring with political unrest,
and together they made Mursi’s position untenable,” said Abi
Ali. “He failed politically before he failed economically.”  Unlike Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who
waited until his second term to start purging the military of
his opponents, Mursi fired Mubarak’s defense chiefs two months
into his presidency, ignored opposition to the Islamist-backed
constitution and failed to rally the judiciary to support him.  Mursi’s government also has struggled to conclude a $4.8
billion loan agreement with the International Monetary Fund that
Mursi said was needed to restore investor confidence. Instead,
the authorities relied on stop-gap grants and deposits from
countries including Qatar, which extended $8 billion in aid to
Egypt’s finance ministry and the central bank.  Enemies Blamed  The result was that youth groups, opposition parties and
army supporters united behind the single goal of removing the
Muslim Brotherhood from power. Protesters stormed the group’s
building on July 1 and fought street battles with members.  The Islamists “created many enemies and were fighting
battles on different fronts at the same time,” said Al-Anani,
the  Durham academic . “They don’t have any friends.”  Mursi, 61, and the Brotherhood say they won the presidency
and a parliamentary majority democratically. They blame Egypt’s
ills on mass protests and conspiracies by their enemies.  The now former president rejected the army’s ultimatum as
his supporters poured into the streets by the thousands. While
not capitulating to demands for him to step down, Mursi proposed
a power-sharing arrangement until new elections, calling it a
“clear and safe” road map to end the turmoil.  Crowds in Cairo’s Tahrir Square, the focal point of the
revolution against Mubarak, set off fireworks when the defense
minister declared an end to Mursi’s time in office.  Plunging Popularity  It’s a world away from the group’s standing after the 2011
uprising, when bankers and investors from the U.S. to  Australia 
courted its leaders and their vision for Egypt’s economy. Fifty-seven percent of Egyptians saw Mursi’s election as positive.  That support slumped to 28 percent, according to a poll by
Washington-based  Zogby Research Services  on June 17. More than
90 percent said they had confidence in the army.  The plunging popularity has been greeted with a mix of
relief and satisfaction in some Gulf Cooperation Countries wary
of the Brotherhood’s influence over other Islamist movements.  “Two things that don’t mix: the Brotherhood and
prosperity,” Dubai’s Police Commander Dhahi Khalfan said on
Twitter to his 463,195 followers before Mursi was removed.  The United Arab Emirates, a federation of seven sheikhdoms
including Dubai, handed down jail sentences to 69 people on July
2 after finding them guilty of setting up a secret cell the
country said was linked to the Brotherhood.  U.A.E. Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan
said yesterday his country was following Egypt’s developments
“with satisfaction,” according to the state-run WAM news
agency. The Egyptian army “proves, once again, that it is the
strong shield” of the country, he said.  “Other Islamist groups are watching very closely,” said
Hamid of the Brookings Doha Center. “Everyone looks at Egypt as
a bellwether for regional trends.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  