-- California Loses Bid to Delay Order to Release Prisoners
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-07-03T22:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/california-loses-bid-to-delay-order-to-release-prisoners.html
California  lost a bid to delay a
court order to expand a program to release some prison inmates
early to meet a court mandated Dec. 31 deadline to reduce the
state’s prison population.  A three-judge panel, noting that litigation over conditions
in the prison system began 23 years ago, denied California
Governor Jerry Brown’s request to put its June 20 order on hold
while he seeks review by the U.S. Supreme Court.  Delaying the order would injure prisoners who are affected
by poor mental-health and medical-care conditions that will be
eased by fewer patients, the court said. The state won’t be
harmed because it’s already planning to reduce the inmate
population and it hasn’t  shown that there’s a danger in
releasing some inmates early for good behavior, it said.  “The public interest lies in obviating the ongoing
constitutional violations in the mental and medical health-care
systems in California’s prisons -– violations that this court
and the Supreme Court have determined will be eliminated only
when defendants reduce the prison population from its current
state of 149.2 percent design capacity to 137.5 percent design
capacity,” the judges said today.  Federal judges stripped California of control of its prison
health-care system in 2006 after inmates filed a legal challenge
to its quality. The judges ordered the state to cut its prison
population to 137 percent of capacity from 175 percent, saying
overcrowding was a cause of the inadequate care. The U.S.
Supreme Court upheld that order in May 2011.  The case is Plata v. Schwarzenegger, 3:01-cv-01351, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  