-- Cameron Commits to High-Speed Rail as Mandelson Urges Rethink
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-07-03T11:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/cameron-commits-to-high-speed-rail-as-mandelson-urges-rethink.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
committed to the building of a high-speed rail line linking
London to northern  England , his spokesman said as evidence
mounts that all-party support for the project is fracturing.  “The prime minister’s view is that high-speed rail is an
example of what we need to do to equip us to compete in the
global race, secure economic prosperity, rebalance our economy
and secure tens of thousands of jobs,” Cameron’s spokesman,
Jean-Christophe Gray, told reporters in London today. “It’s at
the heart of investment in Britain’s economic future.”  Peter Mandelson, who was a minister in the Labour
governments of  Gordon Brown  and  Tony Blair , said in an article
published today that the proposed 43 billion-pound ($66 billion)
line could be an “expensive mistake.” Former Labour Chancellor
of the Exchequer Alistair Darling has said he is an “HS2
skeptic.” Labour gave its support to the project in 2010.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  reaffirmed the
government’s commitment to HS2 in his spending review on June
26. The project was backed in a vote in the House of Commons on
the same day.  “All the parties, especially Labour, should think twice
before binding themselves irrevocably to HS2,” Mandelson, who
is a lawmaker in the House of Lords and no longer holds an
official post in the  Labour Party , wrote in the Financial Times.
“It is not all it seems and has the potential to end up a
mistake, damaging in particular to those people that it was
intended to help.”  The money would be better spent on upgrading existing
services and being kept available for other infrastructure
projects, Mandelson wrote.  “Thankfully, since Blair and Brown are gone the country no
longer has to do whatever  Peter Mandelson  says,” transport
minister, Norman Baker, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
Liberal Democrats were the first party to champion high-speed
rail, the Conservatives got on board and it was Labour’s Andrew Adonis who got it started. There is a genuine cross-party
consensus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  