-- Cameron Says Government Focus for RBS Is to ‘Get the Money Back’
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-07-03T12:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/cameron-says-government-focus-for-rbs-is-to-get-the-money-back-.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
defended his government’s management of  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc , saying the focus was recovering the money paid for
its rescue.  “It’s very important that the government stands up for the
taxpayer and makes sure that RBS has the right strategy, the
right leadership, so that we get the money that was put by the
last government into the banks back,” Cameron told lawmakers
during his weekly questions session in Parliament in London
today.  RBS received 45.5 billion pounds ($69 billion), the
costliest bank bailout in history, during the global financial
crisis and the shares remain below the level at which taxpayers
would break even. The Treasury plans to hire Rothschild to help
review the case for splitting the 81 percent state-owned lender
and hiving off its worst-performing assets into a “bad bank.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne yesterday
defended the right of the government to intervene in the running
of the Edinburgh-based bank. He was responding to a suggestion
by opposition Labour Treasury spokesman  Ed Balls  that the
government had mishandled the removal of  Stephen Hester  as chief
executive officer last month.  “I represent the taxpayer,” the London-based  Times
newspaper  reported Osborne saying at an event it hosted. “It’s
a very important bank for our country, it’s the largest lender
to small business in our country, so of course we’re interested
in the health of the bank.”  To a suggestion that he was pushing the bank to play a
greater role in the economy, the newspaper reported Osborne as
saying that people “have to understand that I’m running not
just a  finance ministry  but an economics ministry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  