-- Canadian Dollar Rises From 21-Month Low as Oil Surges Above $100
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-07-03T21:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/canadian-dollar-rises-as-crude-oil-tops-100-on-supply-concern.html
The Canadian dollar rose from almost
a 21-month low as crude oil, the country’s largest, surpassed
$100 per barrel on dwindling U.S. supplies and concern political
turmoil in  Egypt  will disrupt imports from the  Middle East .  The currency strengthened after crude inventories fell by
9.4 million barrels last week, the  American Petroleum Institute 
said yesterday. Egypt’s President Mohamed Mursi rejected an
ultimatum by the armed forces to solve the country’s political
impasse, fanning concern that unrest may interrupt oil
shipments. The U.S. is projected to have added jobs last month
while Canada’s payrolls declined, according to separate surveys
by Bloomberg before reports July 5.  “The price of oil is up over 100 bucks a barrel,” said
 David Tulk , chief macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit, by phone from Toronto. “CAD insofar as it’s a
commodity play at moments in time, I think that’s probably
what’s contributing to the relative out-performance of the
Canadian dollar.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known, added 0.4
percent to C$1.0505 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It
fell yesterday to C$1.0578, the weakest level since Oct. 4,
2011. One loonie buys 95.19 U.S. cents.  Bond Market  Futures of crude oil, Canada’s largest export, gained 1.6
percent to $101.21 per barrel in  New York , the first time it
breached the $100 per barrel mark since September. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks advanced 0.1 percent.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  fell, with
yields up one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.42
percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 lost 11
cents to C$91.98. The  Bank of Canada  will provide further detail
tomorrow on a five-year debt sale scheduled for July 10.  Government bonds  may lose a key support that helped the
debt outperform other sovereign securities since the 2009
recession as economies stabilize worldwide, according to Royal
Bank of Canada.  Reserve managers including central banks raised their
holdings of Canadian dollar-denominated securities in the first
quarter by 5.4 percent to $95 billion from the prior three
months, the  International Monetary Fund  said last week in its
debut  report  on holdings of the Canadian currency. Reserve
growth will slow this year and total foreign capital inflows
will fall to 2 percent of gross domestic product, from 4
percent, according to estimates from Royal Bank, the nation’s
largest lender.  Trade Gap  The currency weakened earlier as  Canada  extended the
longest streak of  merchandise trade  deficits in a quarter
century in May, casting doubt on exporters’ ability to fuel
flagging economic growth.  The C$303 million ($287 million) deficit was the 17th in a
row and followed an April gap that was revised to C$951 million
from C$567 million,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the May deficit would
be C$700 million. The U.S. is projected to have added jobs last
month while Canada’s payrolls declined, according to separate
surveys by Bloomberg before reports July 5.  “Neither imports nor exports are actually going
gangbusters and when our economy is supposedly shifting from one
driven by consumption to one driven by business investment and
net exports it’s a couple of reasons to be concerned,” said
 David Watt , chief economist at the Canadian unit of HSBC Holding
Plc. “We don’t seem to be getting a lot of spillover from the
U.S. traction in our exports.”  Jobs Data  Canada’s payrolls dropped 7,500 in June, according to a
Bloomberg survey. That would compare with a 95,000 increase in
May, the nation’s largest one-month employment increase in more
more than a decade.  U.S. nonfarm payrolls increased 165,000 in June, while the
 unemployment rate  declined to 7.5 percent from 7.6 percent the
previous month, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The loonie has gained 0.2 percent in the past month against
nine developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The  U.S. dollar  has increased 2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  