-- Canadian Pension Plan Said in Talks on Motion Equity Fund
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r   a n d   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-07-03T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/canadian-pension-plan-said-in-talks-on-motion-equity-fund.html
Motion Equity Partners LLP is in
talks to sell a stake in a 1.25 billion-euro ($1.6 billion)
buyout fund it manages, with the Canadian  Pension Plan 
Investment Board the leading bidder, according to four people
with knowledge of the matter.  The bid by  Canada ’s largest pension fund values the assets
in the pool, which was raised in 2005, at about 500 million
euros, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private.  Motion, which traces its origins to Electra Partners
 Europe , named Patrick Eisenchteter, the co-head of the Paris
office, as managing partner in June 2011, succeeding Nigel McConnell. Previously known as Cognetas LLP, the firm suspended
investment activities after McConnell’s departure and in
September 2011 rejected private-equity firm Charterhouse Capital
Partners LLP’s offer to buy the fund, the people said.  Should Motion accept Toronto-based CPP’s bid, the fund’s
assets, which include U.K.-based Morrison Utility Services Ltd.
and Genoa, Italy-based pet goods retailer Arcaplanet, will be
shifted into a new fund with investors able to cash out or carry
over their investment, the people said.  The new fund is expected to have a five-year lifespan and
may provide new capital for investments, they said. While CPP is
the leading bidder, London-based Motion and its adviser,
placement agent Rede Partners LLP, are also considering other
offers, two of the people said.  Motion has closed its office in  Germany  and cut staff in
its U.K. office to deal solely with administration, leaving it
to focus on France and  Italy .  Spokesmen for Motion and Rede Partners declined to comment,
May Chong, a spokeswoman for the CPP, also declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net ;
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  