-- Researcher Accused of Espionage to Admit to Lesser Crime
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-07-03T22:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/cancer-drug-researcher-to-plead-guilty-to-computer-crime.html
An ex- Medical College of Wisconsin 
researcher once suspected of trying to steal a developmental
cancer drug for  China  agreed to plead guilty to a computer-tampering charge.  Hua Jun Zhao, a Chinese national, will enter the plea on
July 10 before U.S. District Judge Charles N. Clevert in
Milwaukee, according to the court’s electronic docket.  A plea agreement signed by Zhao on June 28 was filed
yesterday with the court with a revised charging document known
as a criminal information.  “The parties understand and agree that the charge set
forth in the information carries the following maximum term of
imprisonment and fine: five years and $250,000,” according to
the agreement.  It’s the third charging document filed in the case, which
began in March with Zhao accused of committing economic
espionage by taking the cancer-research compound to give it to a
university in China.  A  Milwaukee  federal court jury in April indicted Zhao for
computer tampering and lying to federal agents. When he pleaded
not guilty on April 11, Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Ingraham
asked the court to dismiss the earlier charges and allow
prosecutors to refile them at a later date.  Dean Puschnig, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney James L. Santelle, didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the plea agreement.  Defense Lawyer  Zhao’s attorney,  Michelle L. Jacobs , declined to comment on
the case until after her client is sentenced.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Patricia Gorence in April found Zhao
was a flight risk and ordered him detained. He is being held at
the Waukesha County Jail.  Zhao, on being questioned by Medical College officials
about the disappearance of the three vials of the compound known
as C-25 in February, denied any involvement, according to the
agreement.  He was nonetheless suspended, and his access to the college
and its labs was revoked on Feb. 27. He returned later that day
and logged in to one of its computers, deleting information on
the compound from his user directory.  The data was later found on his personal computer,
according to the plea agreement. At the time of his arrest in
March, Zhao had an airline ticket to China, where his wife and
children live.  He was scheduled to go to trial July 29.  The case is U.S. v. Zhao, 13-cr-00058, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Wisconsin  (Milwaukee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ,  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 