-- Carlyle Sees LBO Fund Commitments Exceeding $10B Target
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-07-03T15:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/carlyle-sees-lbo-fund-commitments-exceeding-10b-target.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s second-biggest private-equity firm, plans to finish raising its newest
buyout fund in the next few months with commitments exceeding
the $10 billion target, according to an investor letter.  Carlyle has raised $9.4 billion for Carlyle Partners VI,
according to the July 1 letter sent to the Washington-based
firm’s investors, portions of which were obtained by  Bloomberg
News . Carlyle said it has “visibility” on investor commitments
that will push the fund over the target size, according to the
letter.  Randall Whitestone, a Carlyle spokesman, declined to
comment on the fundraising.  Fewer buyout firms are raising larger pools of capital as
the industry consolidates and investors, seeking to cut costs,
allocate their money to a smaller group of managers. Ten funds
 raised  55 percent of the capital raised in the second quarter,
according to London-based research firm Preqin Ltd. Carlyle has
raised more than $2 billion for the flagship fund since May 9,
when it reported first-quarter earnings.  Carlyle executives had pledged more than $700 million to
the fund as of the second quarter last year, regulatory filings
and a person familiar with the matter said at the time. The firm
offered an incentive to big backers by lowering their management
fee to 1.1 percent if they committed at least $500 million,
compared with 1.5 percent for smaller investors, according to
people with knowledge of the matter.  Carlyle’s Returns  Carlyle’s current flagship fund, which raised $13.7 billion
in 2007, had an 11 percent net internal rate of return and a
multiple of invested capital of 1.5 as of March 31. More than 94
percent of that fund has been invested in or committed to deals,
Carlyle said in the letter. Its predecessor pool, raised in 2004
with $7.9 billion, was generating a 13 percent return and a 2.1
times multiple.  KKR & Co. (KKR) , the New York-based firm run by  Henry Kravis  and
 George Roberts , has gathered more than $7.5 billion for its
latest flagship fund and expects to complete fundraising this
year, the company said in April.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , which was
the first of the large buyout groups to raise money after the
financial crisis, collected more than $16 billion for its fund
last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  