-- Cavendish Wins Tour de France Stage as Pile-Ups Affect Dozens
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-07-03T16:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/cavendish-wins-tour-de-france-stage-as-crash-halts-other-riders.html
British sprinter Mark Cavendish won
stage five of the Tour de  France  as crashes in the final 10
miles disrupted the day for dozens of riders. Simon Gerrans kept
the race-leading yellow jersey.  Cavendish of Omega Pharma beat former Team Sky teammate
Edvald Boasson Hagen in a dash to the line at the end of the
142-mile course between Cagnes-sur-Mer and Marseille. Peter
Sagan of Cannondale was third.  It’s the first stage win of the 100th edition of the Tour
for Cavendish and his 24th overall at the race. He quit Team Sky
after last season when he won three stages, two less than a year
earlier with HTC-Highroad.  “Hopefully it’s just started to get the ball rolling,”
Cavendish, 28, said in a televised interview.  Gerrans, a 33-year-old Australian, finished 15th and
avoided a pile-up in the final mile that blocked the road and
stopped dozens of riders for about a minute.  Under race rules, the delay won’t affect overall times
because the crash happened near the end.  Earlier, Christian Vande Velde, a 37-year-old American on
the Garmin-Sharp team, was among about a dozen riders to get
caught up in a pile-up with 10 miles left.  Vande Velde tumbled onto a grass verge and was the last
cyclist to get back on his bike.  Gerrans took the race lead from Jan Bakelants, a Belgian
with the RadioShack team, yesterday when his Orica-GreenEdge
outfit won the team time trial.  Froome Favorite  Race favorite Chris Froome remains three seconds further
back in seventh place. Froome built a  six-second advantage  over
Alberto Contador yesterday.  Froome, a Kenya-born Briton who was second last year, is
the favorite to win the race, according to seven bookmakers’
odds on  oddschecker.com .  Two-time champion Contador of Team Saxo Bank is second
favorite with the seven bookmakers. The 2012 champion Bradley Wiggins is absent because of injury.  Tomorrow’s stage is a 110-mile ride on mainly flat terrain
between Aix-en-Provence and Montpellier.  The Tour, which covers 2,116 miles, ends July 21 in Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  