-- Celesio Fires CEO Markus Pinger in Management Disagreement
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m   a n d   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-07-03T16:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/celesio-fires-ceo-markus-pinger-in-management-disagreement-1-.html
Celesio AG (CLS1) , a German drug
distributor, fired Chief Executive Officer Markus Pinger because
of “different opinions of the management of the company.” The
shares fell the most in almost two years.  Pinger left immediately and his management board tasks will
be handled provisionally by Chief Financial Officer Marion Helmes, the Stuttgart-based company said today in a statement.
The supervisory board dismissed Pinger, 50, at a meeting today,
according to the statement.  Celesio and  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  have held talks on a
possible collaboration, including purchasing pacts, people
familiar with the situation said last month. Manager Magazin
reported last month that CVS was prepared to buy Franz Haniel &
Cie GmbH’s  50.01 percent stake  in Celesio. Pinger had been in
talks with Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based CVS for some time, the
magazine reported.  Rainer Berghausen, a spokesman for Celesio, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking further
comment. Haniel stands behind the decision of the supervisory
board, said Dietmar Bochert, a spokesman for Haniel.  Celesio dropped 6.9 percent to close at 16.49 euros in
 Frankfurt , giving the company a market value of 2.8 billion
euros ($3.6 billion).  Celesio hired Citigroup Inc. to help in discussions with
Cardinal Health Inc. and McKesson Corp. about taking a potential
stake in the German company, Reuters reported July 1.  Helmes Future  “The Celesio supervisory board would like to thank Markus
Pinger for his work in the management board,” Stephan Gemkow,
chairman of the supervisory board, said in the statement. “Dr.
Helmes has contributed decisively to the chosen path of the
realignment of the group. The supervisory board is looking
forward to working together with Mrs. Helmes in her extended
responsibilities.” Gemkow is CEO of Haniel.  Pinger joined Celesio in 2011 from Beiersdorf AG, the maker
of Nivea skin cream. Under Pinger, Celesio sold its DocMorris
mail-order pharmacy business as well as its Movianto unit, which
offers logistics services to drugmakers, and Pharmexx, which
provides sales and marketing support.  Helmes, 47, will continue to serve as CFO, Celesio said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  