-- Cerberus Founder Said to Skip Bidding on Gunmaker Freedom
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-07-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/cerberus-founder-said-to-skip-bidding-on-gunmaker-freedom.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP
founder Steve Feinberg decided not to make a bid for Freedom
Group Inc., the gunmaker controlled by the private-equity firm,
said a person familiar with the matter.  Several suitors submitted offers, making Feinberg’s bid
unnecessary, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the decision is private. Feinberg and partners at
Cerberus had approached wealthy individuals about joining in a
“stalking horse” bid to spark competition for Freedom Group,
the maker of the Bushmaster rifle used in a  Connecticut  school
massacre, people familiar with the matter said in April.  Feinberg’s withdrawal shows Cerberus has run an active
auction amid a fierce public debate over firearms after putting
Freedom Group up for sale in December. At the start of the
process, some investment banks refused to represent potential
buyers, people familiar with the matter said in January.  Peter Duda , a spokesman for New York-based Cerberus at
public-relations firm  Weber Shandwick , declined to comment.  Cerberus made its initial weapons investment in 2006,
buying the maker of the Bushmaster, and added acquisitions that
included Remington Arms Co. in 2007. The firearms business was
named Freedom Group and became the biggest U.S. manufacturer of
guns and ammunition.  School Massacre  The buyout firm put Freedom Group on the block four days
after the Newtown, Connecticut, slayings of 26 people at Sandy
Hook Elementary School on Dec. 14.  Gun-control advocates seized on the shootings to renew a
push for a ban on some semi-automatic weapons, which would have
covered rifles such as the Bushmaster, and forced a showdown in
Congress in which that measure and expanded background checks on
firearms were both defeated.  Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Credit Suisse Group
AG and Barclays Plc had declined to advise Cerberus on the sale
and also wouldn’t represent a potential buyer, people with
knowledge of the matter said in January. The private-equity firm
is getting help from Lazard Ltd. on the sale, several of the
people said.  It was a rarity on  Wall Street  for so many banks to eschew
an assignment, especially one potentially worth millions of
dollars in fees. Freedom Group may fetch as much as $1 billion
in a sale, based on the ratios of enterprise value to Ebitda, or
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
of competitors such as  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp. (SWHC)  and  Sturm
Ruger & Co. (RGR) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The debate over firearm legislation has stoked demand for
the two publicly traded gunmakers. Smith & Wesson and Sturm
Ruger recently posted their highest respective annual earnings
since at least 2000.  A recent survey by the National Shooting Sports Foundation,
a trade association based in Newtown, reported that retail sales
in 2012 exceeded those in 2011. Purchases of assault-style
rifles like the Bushmaster model led all others.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  