-- CFTC Watchdog Says Gensler’s E-Mails Didn’t Violate U.S. Law
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-07-03T19:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/cftc-watchdog-says-gensler-s-e-mail-use-didn-t-violate-u-s-law.html
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Chairman  Gary Gensler  didn’t violate federal record-keeping laws
by using his personal e-mail for agency business during the
collapse of MF Global Holdings Ltd., the agency’s watchdog said.  “We do not believe it violated any federal statute,” A. Roy Lavik, the CFTC’s inspector general, said in a July 1 letter
responding to lawmakers who requested additional information
about Gensler’s e-mail use in 2011 in the days before the  New
York  brokerage’s bankruptcy filing. Lavik had reported the e-mail use in a review of the agency’s handling of MF Global.  The CFTC discourages employees from using personal e-mail
to conduct official business but doesn’t prohibit the practice,
Lavik said in the letter to Republican Representatives  Scott Garrett  of  New Jersey  and K. Michael Conaway of  Texas . Agency
policy prohibits employees from sending sensitive information to
personal e-mail accounts, he wrote without saying whether
Gensler used his e-mail for that purpose.  Steve Adamske , the CFTC’s spokesman, declined to comment on
the inspector general’s letter.  During the weekend before MF Global filed for bankruptcy on
October 31, 2011, Gensler exclusively used a personal e-mail
account to communicate about the company then run by Jon S. Corzine, who worked for Goldman Sachs Group Inc. when Gensler
was employed by the firm. Gensler had used personal e-mail
consistently since he arrived at the agency in 2009 to set
meetings and have discussions about official business.  Issa Request  Representative  Darrell Issa , the California Republican who
leads the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, asked
Gensler on May 30 to provide all e-mail from non-official
accounts relating to his job overseeing derivatives markets,
according to a letter obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The committee is seeking e-mails since Jan. 1, 2009, to
“better understand whether your use of personal e-mail to
conduct official business was mere imprudence, or part of a
larger scheme to defeat federal transparency laws,” Issa wrote
to Gensler. “There is little discernible explanation for your
use of personal e-mail to conduct official business.”  Gensler recused himself from the CFTC investigation into MF
Global because of his prior relationship with Corzine. The CFTC
sued Corzine on June 27 for failing to supervise employees at
the brokerage, which reported a $1.6 billion shortfall in client
funds when it collapsed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  