-- Chicago’s 29% Homicide Drop Comes With 400 Cops Doing OT
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-07-03T02:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/chicago-s-29-homicide-drop-comes-with-400-cops-doing-ot.html
Chicago  cut its homicide rate by 29
percent during the first half of this year, thanks in part to a
crime prevention strategy that paid 400 officers overtime to
quell violence in the city’s most dangerous neighborhoods.  Following a year in which homicides topped 500 for only the
second time in a decade, Chicago reported its lowest first six-month total since 1965 -- 180 through June 30, according to
police data. That’s 76 fewer than the same period in 2012.  A question hanging over the latest homicide figures is the
city’s financial ability to maintain the beefed-up street force
as temperatures rise and costs mount.  “It’s very sustainable,” police Superintendent Garry McCarthy said in an interview yesterday at department
headquarters on the South Side. “The mayor has made it quite
clear that he will find the money to support the budget to make
this happen.”  McCarthy, who was appointed by Mayor Rahm Emanuel to lead
the department in 2011, said the price of reducing violence has
to be set against the personal loss of a loved one.  “What’s the cost of gun violence to a family?” he asked.
“Tell me if they wouldn’t pay $5 million, if they had it, to
save somebody’s life?”  While the nation’s third-largest city by population endured
a record wet first half of the year, according to the National
Weather Service, progress in reducing the homicide numbers began
to slow in May.  Rebounding Rate  In recent weeks, the number of killings more closely
resembled that of the previous year, according to police
records. There were 44 homicides in June, compared with 48
during the same month last year and 45 in June 2011.  McCarthy dismissed the impact of weather, saying it doesn’t
cause or prevent violent crime. He pointed to a drop in
shootings -- 25 percent this year and 13 percent in June -- as a
more significant gauge of progress in curbing violent crime.  The drop in homicides is well worth the money the city of
2.7 million people is paying, McCarthy said.  “If we’re down about 80 murders so far this year, I think
we’ve saved about $400 million,” he said, citing a Rand Corp.
study that pegged the cost of a homicide at $5 million,
including medical care, lost wages and other economic effects.
“And what are we spending on overtime -- $30 million?”  After the murder rate soared during the first three months
of 2012, Emanuel moved to bolster the police presence in
violence-prone neighborhoods on the South and West sides. Though
the strategy resulted in fewer killings during the latter half
of last year, the city still recorded 506 murders.  ‘Impact Zones’  In February, McCarthy identified 20 “impact zones” in the
wake of the shooting death of a 15-year-old girl who lived less
than a mile from President  Barack Obama ’s South Side home and
had performed at his inauguration. In deploying more officers,
the city burned up almost two-thirds of the year’s overtime
budget in just three months.  The homicide rate is a sensitive political issue here,
especially as New York City and Los Angeles, both with more
people, have reported sharp declines as well as smaller totals
than Chicago’s. The two major newspapers in the city pay close
attention to killings. The Sun-Times publishes “Homicide Watch
Chicago: Mark Every Death, Remember Every Victim, Follow Every
Case.”  Emanuel, the former chief of staff in Obama’s White House,
touts progress in reducing homicides and the 14 percent drop in
all crime this year.  Concealed Carry  “Look, the fact is our homicides are down significantly,”
Emanuel said in a brief interview.  New York, where McCarthy once served as deputy commissioner
of police operations, recorded 147 homicides in 2013 through
June 23, down from 197 in the same period of last year and 30
fewer for the period than in Chicago, whose population is
roughly one-third the size.  Chicago’s battle with homicides comes as Illinois grapples
with a Dec. 11 federal court order to let residents carry
concealed weapons. Democratic Governor Pat Quinn yesterday used
his amendatory veto powers to limit the scope of a gun bill
approved by the legislature in May.  Among Quinn’s changes, which lawmakers will try to overturn
next week, are limits on the ammunition capacity of gun
magazines, a ban on carrying firearms into bars or restaurants
that serve alcohol, and language preserving the right of local
governments to enact their own weapons restrictions. Last week
Emanuel proposed stiffer rules on so-called assault weapons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  