-- Chicago Gasoline Gains as Supplys Fall to Seasonal Low
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-07-03T19:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/chicago-gasoline-gains-as-supplys-fall-to-seasonal-low.html
U.S.  Chicago  gasoline strengthened
versus futures to the narrowest differential in three weeks
after a government report said inventories fell to the lowest
 seasonal level  in more than two decades. Crack spreads widened.  The  discount for conventional , 85-octane gasoline, or CBOB,
in Chicago slid 4 cents to 9 cents a gallon against  New York 
Mercantile Exchange futures at 2:35 p.m., the least since June
13.  Conventional gasoline in Group 3  gained 0.75 cent to 7.75
cents a gallon under futures.  Differentials narrowed after the Energy Information
Administration said that  gasoline stockpiles  in the U.S.
Midwest, known as PADD 2, fell 1.56 million barrels to 48.4
million in the week ended June 28, the lowest level for the end
of June since the government started tracking data in 1990.  “The Midwest is still playing catch-up and not running at
full capacity,” said Ed Malloy, president of Danaher Oil Co. in
Fairfield,  Iowa . “Minor issues still exist.”  Inventories, which slumped to a five-month low during the
peak of Midwest refinery maintenance, climbed in the previous
five weeks as plants including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Joliet
refinery and  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s Wood River plant, both in  Illinois ,
finished work.  Refinery Utilization  Refineries in the area processed 3.4 million barrels of
crude and other feedstock last week, a utilization rate of
almost 91 percent, according to data from the EIA, the Energy
Department’s Statistical Arm.  Last week, the Midwest was hit by storms that affected
operations at Citgo Petroleum Corp.’s 170,500-barrel-a-day
Lemont, Illinois, plant.  HollyFrontier Corp. (HFC) ’s Tulsa East,  Oklahoma , refinery, which
began a turnaround in May, is expected to start up this month,
said a person familiar with operations. The 70,300-barrel-a-day
plant planned repairs on a crude unit, naphtha hydrotreater and
panex unit, according to company earnings calls.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  in Chicago, a rough measure of
refining margins based on West Texas Intermediate oil in
Cushing, Oklahoma, widened $1.65 to $16.89 a barrel.  The same
spread  gained by 97 cents to $17.56 a barrel in Group 3, which
includes states north of Oklahoma to  Minnesota  and  North Dakota .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  