-- Chile Allows Codelco to Retain $1 Billion Profit for Investments
-- B y   J a m e s   A t t w o o d
-- 2013-07-03T00:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/chile-allows-codelco-to-retain-1-billion-profit-for-investments.html
Chile , the biggest copper-producing
country, will allow state-owned miner Codelco to retain $1
billion of last year’s profit as it embarks on record
investments needed to tap new deposits.  The money will come from profit booked in the sale of a
stake in  Anglo American Plc. (AAL) ’s Sur copper assets in Chile,
Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said in a statement today. The
government allowed Codelco to retain $800 million, or 40
percent, of the previous year’s profit.  “We want to give a clear sign of support to Codelco’s
investment program,” Larrain said. “Codelco maintains its
investment grade credit rating and we have committed to that
remaining the case.”  The funds will help Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Keller ’s
$27 billion investment program he says is needed to revive
profitability as mining lower quality ore requires more power,
equipment and labor. At Chuquicamata, first mined by the
Guggenheim family in the early 1900s, Codelco plans to access
profitable ore under the current open-pit mine by building the
world’s largest underground industrial tunnel network.  The company last tapped the  debt market  July 10, two weeks
after Larrain approved last year’s proposal. Codelco sold $1.25
billion of 10-year bonds at 165 basis points above U.S.
Treasuries. The spread narrowed to 106 basis points on Oct. 17,
when record low interest rates were luring money into developing
nations, before reaching 241 basis points by June 24 amid the
worst developing-nation rout since the financial crisis. The
spread narrowed to 200 basis points yesterday.  Codelco had asked to retain more profit, the company said
in a statement today, without saying how much. The state miner
will “proceed to revise and prioritize those investment that to
date aren’t committed,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Attwood in Santiago at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  