-- China’s Visit-the-Parents Law Also Affects City Buildings
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-07-03T23:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/china-quickens-effort-to-comply-with-new-law-for-elderly.html
China  will accelerate development of
standards for functions and designs that accommodate the elderly
in buildings and public facilities to comply with the same new
law under which people can be forced to visit their parents.  China’s revised and broadened Law for the Protection of the
Rights and Interests of the Elderly includes a chapter aimed at
ensuring comfortable living environments, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported yesterday.  The nation will issue rules on planning of urban living
areas and road traffic to aid the elderly and will accelerate
the construction of elder-care facilities “in the next couple
of years,” Xinhua reported.  The law, which went into effect July 1, also allows parents
in China to sue children who don’t visit often enough. With
China’s elderly population forecast to more than double to 487
million in the next 40 years, the government needs to try to
limit the cost of caring for seniors.  In the first verdict under the law, on the day it went into
force, a woman in Wuxi in eastern China’s Jiangsu province was
ordered to visit her 77-year-old mother every two months and at
least three times during major traditional holidays, Xinhua
reported July 2, citing the verdict.  Traditionally, children lived with their parents and looked
after them in accordance with Confucian beliefs. The ancient
Chinese philosopher emphasized filial piety as the foundation of
all values and placed great importance on harmony and a proper
order of social relationships, especially within families.  That relationship has eroded as China’s one-child policy
increases the burden on the sole offspring and people move to
cities in pursuit of jobs.  Visitation Rules  In response, the government passed amendments to the
elderly-care  law  on Dec. 28 to include the visitation
requirement and a stipulation that employers approve the
necessary leave, without specifying how often the visits should
take place. The law enables the elderly to seek legal recourse
and prohibits “discrimination, insult, ill-treatment and
abandonment” of the aged.  China also assigned a symbolic Elderly Day under the
legislation and said it will improve long-term care services and
benefits for senior citizens.  Besides an effort to preserve tradition, the rules are an
economic necessity to limit the state’s burden. China’s working-age citizens ages 15 to 59 fell as a share of the population
last year, and the National Committee on Aging estimates people
60 years and older will rise to 487 million by 2053 from 185
million in 2011. The entire  U.S. population  is projected to
reach about 406 million in 2053, according to the  U.S. Census
Bureau .  The government will introduce favorable policies that
include boosting the number of beds in care facilities to 30 per
1,000 elderly people by 2015, from 20 currently, Minister for
Civil Affairs Li Liguo told reporters at the National People’s
Congress in Beijing on March 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  