-- China Said to Suspend Release of Steel Industry PMI Data
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-03T10:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/china-said-to-suspend-release-of-steel-industry-pmi-data.html
China  suspended the release of a set
of data on the country’s  steel industry  after the National
Bureau of Statistics decided to change how the figures are
compiled, a person involved in producing the numbers said.  The June Purchasing Managers’ Index for the steel industry
won’t be released, said the person, who asked not to be
identified as he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about the
matter. It isn’t yet clear what changes will be made and in what
time frame, or if the data for July would be released next
month, the person said.  The monthly steel PMI, released by the statistics bureau
together with the China Federation of Logistics & Purchasing and
Shanghai-based Xiben New Line, has come out no later than the
third day of each of the past 12 months. The index, which
measures production, sales and inventories in the industry, rose
to 46.8 in May from 45.1 in April. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction.  The statistics bureau didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed questions seeking comment today. Calls to the bureau’s
news office went unanswered.  China is the world’s largest producer of steel. It
accounted for 49.18 percent of worldwide crude steel production
in May, according to the World Steel Association.  Japan , the
second-largest producer, accounted for 7.06 percent, the data
showed.  Other data were omitted from the statistics bureau’s
release of China’s official manufacturing PMI on July 1. Five of
12 sub-indexes usually released together with the figures,
including numbers for export orders, imports and inventories of
finished goods, were missing, without any explanation from the
government.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  