-- China Overnight Rate Declines for Ninth Day as Cash Crunch Eases
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-03T04:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/china-money-rate-drops-for-ninth-day-longest-streak-since-march.html
China ’s overnight money-market rate
dropped for a ninth day, the longest run of declines since March,
as the worst cash crunch on record eased.  An index compiled by the operations office of the People’s
Bank of China shows that cash supply isn’t inadequate, the
Financial News, which is owned by the central bank, reported
today. The monetary authority has refrained from selling  bills 
since June 20, when both the overnight and seven-day repurchase
rates climbed to all-time highs.  “Money-market conditions are normalizing,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist at Societe General SA in  Hong Kong . “The
PBOC is most likely to give some breathing room for banks to
comply with stricter lending practices and get their books in
order.”  The one-day repurchase  rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, fell 31 basis points, or 0.31 percentage
point, to 3.4 percent as of 11:28 a.m. in  Shanghai , the lowest
since May 30, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It has declined every day
since reaching a record-high 13.91 percent on June 20.  The seven-day repo  rate  slid 51 basis points to 4.25
percent. The rate will fall back to a range of 3 percent to 4
percent this month, Chong forecast. A daily fixing  averaged  6.81
percent last month, the highest in data going back to the start
of 2004, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The PBOC signaled on June 25 that liquidity support would
be focused on banks that lend to help the economy. The monetary
authority gauged demand today for sales of 14-day reverse-repurchase contracts tomorrow, according to a trader at a
primary dealer required to bid at the auctions. The central bank
also assessed demand for 28-day repo contracts and 91-day bills,
according to the trader.  Bond Futures  China may restart trading of government bond futures in
September, the official China Securities Journal reported today,
adding to evidence an 18-year ban may soon end. The China
Securities Regulatory Commission, the nation’s stock regulator,
will decide when trading will begin after the State Council
approved the plan, the newspaper reported, citing people it
didn’t identify. The CSRC didn’t immediately respond to faxed
questions seeking comment.  The Ministry of Finance sold at least 26 billion  yuan  ($4.2
billion) of one-year bonds today at a yield of 3.48 percent,
according to a statement on Chinabond’s website. That compares
with the median estimate for 3.25 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey yesterday. The sale drew bids for 1.43 times the amount
offered, according to a trader required to bid at the auctions.
The bid-to-cover ratio was 1.32 at the last offer of similar-maturity debt on April 10.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, declined five basis
points to 3.85 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  