-- China Hongqiao Adding Aluminum Output as Global Smelters Cut
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-03T09:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/china-hongqiao-adding-aluminum-output-as-global-smelters-cut-1-.html
China Hongqiao Group Ltd. (1378) , the
nation’s largest non-state aluminum producer, and competitors
are boosting or maintaining output as the government seeks to
trim capacity amid a global glut.  China Hongqiao’s production will rise about 10 percent to 2
million metric tons this year, said Christine Wong, executive
director secretary and head of  investor relations . Xinfa Group
and East Hope Group said they aren’t planning cuts. The
companies are three of China’s five biggest aluminum makers.  Their stance may hamper curtailment efforts by top global
producers including  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , United Co.
Rusal and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  who are cutting output to ease worldwide
over supply. China’s Premier  Li Keqiang  wants to bring forward
to the end of 2014 a target to eliminate outdated capacity in
industries including aluminum.  “Chalco and China will need to do a lot more” to trim
excess production, Vanessa Lau, a senior analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said from Hong Kong, referring to Aluminum
Corp. of China, or Chalco. If other China producers continue to
expand, then there’s not much net aluminum capacity being
closed, she said.  Aluminum has declined 12 percent this year in  London ,
weighed down by global output that’s exceeded demand for the
past eight years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Production worldwide will reach a record near 50 million
tons this year, up from 45 million in 2012, Austin, Texas-based
Harbor Intelligence forecast.  “Nothing to Change”  “The market is still looking at over-capacity, over-production and an unprecedented overhang of metal,” said Jorge Vazquez, a managing director at Harbor. “There’s a lack of
credibility for the producers, and even if these cuts take
place, investors expect nothing to change.”  China  had capacity of more than 27 million tons last year,
compared with consumption of 19.02 million tons, the Economic
Information Daily, an affiliate of the official Xinhua News
Agency, said June 25, citing the China Nonferrous Metals
Industry Association.  Aluminum companies must eliminate more production capacity
to raise prices to the cost of output, Oleg Mukhamedshin, deputy
chief executive officer of Rusal, the world’s biggest producer,
said this week. Inventories of aluminum come to about 12 million
tons, excluding China, compared with a “normal” level of 6
million to 7 million tons, he said.  Same Problem  Chalco, China’s biggest aluminum producer, said last month
it would halt some output for the first time since 2009,
temporarily suspending 9 percent to 10 percent of total
capacity.  “The Chinese government is facing the same problem in
aluminum as in the  steel industry ,” said Wan Ling, manager for
China nonferrous metals analysis at research company CRU
International Ltd. Attempts to rein in capacity expansion have
failed in past years, she said from Beijing.  China Hongqiao fell 1.1 percent to close at HK$3.65 today
in Hong Kong, while Chalco dropped 3.4 percent to HK$2.29. The
benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  declined 2.5 percent.  Shanghai-based East Hope, which produces aluminum mainly in
 Inner Mongolia , isn’t planning to cut output as the company
isn’t incurring losses, Ma Lifang, an official with the trading
department, said by phone. Chen Lizhi, a vice president of
Shandong Xinfa Aluminum and Electricity Group, the main unit of
Xinfa Group, said he isn’t aware of plans to suspend or cut
capacity.  “Any measures by the Chinese government to rein in the
expansion won’t take effect immediately because the ongoing
smelting projects, which already have government approval, won’t
stop,” said Kevin Guo, Shenzhen-based analyst with Guotai Junan
Securities Co. “Aluminum projects are a large contributor of
tax revenue and employment to regional governments - regional
governments are happy to give green lights to them.”  East Hope  Still, falling prices may deter some expansion by Chinese
producers. East Hope may slow a plan to build a 3.2 million ton-a-year plant in the western province of Xinjiang, the company’s
Ma said.  “Smelters with low costs should grab the opportunity to
boost their market share as demand remains strong amid weak
aluminum prices,” China Hongqiao’s Wong said in a phone
interview from  Hong Kong , where the stock trades.  The company, which also plans to lift capacity to 2.7
million tons by the end of next year, has secured sales
contracts before it builds new production lines, she said. The
government is targeting closing outdated plants and China
Hongqiao uses advanced technology, Wong said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  