-- Citigroup May Fund Iraq-Jordan Oil Pipeline, Official Says
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-07-04T15:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/citigroup-may-fund-iraq-to-jordan-oil-pipeline-official-says.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  is among international
banks seeking to finance a pipeline that  Iraq  plans to build to
export crude oil and natural gas through neighboring  Jordan , an
official at the State Company for Oil Projects said.  The Iraqi government expects to preselect companies from
among 40 bidders vying to build and finance the pipeline from
the central town of Haditha to Jordan’s Red Sea port of Aqaba,
Nateq Balasem Khalaf, deputy director general of the state-run
company, said in an interview in Baghdad.  “Citibank is among the bidders,” he said yesterday. Other
interested banks and companies are from Russia, South Korea,
Japan,  Italy , China,  Egypt , Jordan, and Germany, he said. Two
Citigroup officials based in the Middle East declined to give an
immediate comment when contacted today by phone.  Iraq, which holds the world’s fifth-largest proven oil
reserves, is rebuilding its infrastructure and energy industry
after decades of war and sanctions.  SNC-Lavalin Group (SNC)  is
advising the government on ways to build new routes to export
oil currently shipped via pipeline to  Turkey  and by sea through
the Persian Gulf.  The new crude pipeline would carry 1 million barrels a day,
including 150,000 barrels a day for Jordan’s domestic
consumption, and the rest for export, Khalaf said. The gas
pipeline would transport 252 million cubic feet a day, of which
100 million cubic feet would be exported to Jordan, he said.  Citigroup Strategy  The government plans to build and finance a separate
section of the network itself to Haditha from Basra, a southern
oil hub, Khalaf said. It will ask for bids from pipeline
suppliers by year-end, he said.  Citigroup, a U.S. lender scaling back in some  emerging
markets , plans to open offices and branches in Iraq to benefit
from an estimated $1 trillion of infrastructure spending there,
Mayank Malik, the bank’s chief executive officer for Jordan,
Iraq, Syria and the Palestinian territories, said in a June 27
interview.  Iraq will start operating its third offshore export
facility for crude by the end of the year and plans to upgrade
its two onshore terminals at Basra and Khor al-Amaya, Khalaf
said. The government is building 16 crude-storage tanks in the
southern port of al-Faw, each with a capacity of 58,000 cubic
feet. Four are operational, another four are to be completed by
the end of July and the rest by year-end, he said.  Iraq is on track to increase crude exports to 3.5 million
barrels a day by the end of 2013, Khalaf said. The country
produced 3.15 million barrels a day to 3.2 million barrels a day
on average in June, according to an e-mailed Oil Ministry
statement on June 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansary in  Baghdad  at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  