-- Coffee Crushed as Slumping Real Spurs Brazil Sales
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-07-04T21:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/coffee-crushed-as-slumping-real-spurs-brazil-sales-commodities.html
The weakest Brazilian real in four
years is accelerating coffee shipments from the biggest growing
nation, adding to a glut that is cutting costs for  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  and Kraft Foods Group Inc.  First-half  shipments  were 20 percent higher than a year
earlier at 13.385 million bags, or 803,000 metric tons, the
Brazilian Trade Ministry said July 1. The real’s 9.4 percent
retreat in the second quarter, the most among 24 major emerging-market currencies, increased revenue from dollar-denominated
coffee sales and encouraged exporters to tap stockpiles that are
the biggest since 2007.  Brazil is increasing competition among coffee sellers as
farmers unload beans to clear storage space for the next
harvest, judging that losses will be limited by translating
dollar revenues into weaker reals. With global output exceeding
demand for a fourth year, accelerating sales will drive prices
down 11 percent to $1.08 a pound by Dec. 31, according to the
median of 18 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The lower real will most certainly help exports, making
 Brazil  a much more aggressive seller,” said Rasmus Wolthers, a
trader at Wolthers & Associates, a brokerage in Santos, Brazil.
“There’s a lot of coffee in Brazil, and there isn’t enough
space to store it all, so producers will have to sell. I expect
to see much more aggressive sales offers.”  Profit Margins  Colombia, the second-biggest grower of arabica beans,
increased exports by 32 percent in the first five months of the
year after the peso weakened 7.1 percent against the dollar,
according to the nation’s Federation of Coffee Growers. Sales
from  Peru , the third-largest producer in South America, fell 31
percent in the period as buyers turn to supplies from Brazil.  Arabica, the most-consumed coffee, tumbled 61 percent on
ICE Futures U.S. in New York since reaching a 14-year high in
May 2011. Cheaper beans prompted  J.M. Smucker Co. (SJM)  to cut prices
in February for Folgers, the top-selling U.S. brand, and widened
second-quarter profit margins at Starbucks coffee houses.  This year’s 16 percent drop in futures to $1.214 compares
with a 2.7 percent retreat in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge
of 24 commodities. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
rose 5.4 percent, and the U.S. Dollar Index advanced 5.1 percent
against a basket of six currencies. Treasuries lost 2.5 percent,
a  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  index shows.  Starbucks, the largest coffee-shop chain, will report a 21
percent gain in  profit  for its fiscal third-quarter that ended
June 30, according to the mean of 13 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Shares of the Seattle-based company rose 25
percent in New York trading this year.  Biennial Cycle  Brazilian exports of green, or unroasted, coffee will
expand 5.8 percent to 29 million bags in the 2013-2014 crop year
that started July 1, the second-highest total on record,
according to Cecafe, the exporters’ council in Sao Paulo. Each
bag weighs 60 kilograms (132 pounds)  While production will decline this crop year as trees enter
the lower-yielding phase of a biennial cycle, shipments will
keep rising as exporters tap inventories from last year’s record
crop of 56.1 million bags, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
 estimates . This season’s projected harvest of 53.7 million bags
will be the third-largest ever and expand stockpiles 22 percent
to 8.23 million bags, the USDA predicts.  The real will weaken to an average of 2.3 per dollar in the
fourth quarter, compared with 2.25 today, according to Barclays
Plc, the most-accurate forecaster of Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg in the four quarters ended March 31.  Subsidy Boost  Government intervention may curb the surge in exports and
halt the slump in coffee prices, said Jack Scoville, a vice
president at Price Futures Group Inc., a broker in  Chicago . The
government approved a record 3.16 billion reais ($1.4 billion)
of subsidies last month to expand storage, buy beans and invest
in plantations. It is also considering a proposal to compensate
growers when prices drop below a certain level.  Heavier-than-average rainfall may reduce the quality of
beans and limit the appeal of Brazilian exports, said Francisco Ourique, a manager at Cooparaiso, a growers’ cooperative in Sao
Sebastiao do Paraiso in Minas Gerais, the largest arabica-producing state. Storms can knock cherries off trees and
diminish the taste of beans dried outdoors.  Minas Gerais  Parts of the coffee-growing states of Parana, Sao Paulo and
Minas Gerais got rainfall that was as much as three times the
30-year average from May 1 to June 25, according to Randy Karst,
a meteorologist at World Weather Inc. in Overland Park,  Kansas .  Lower coffee prices and a weaker real may mean a financial
squeeze on Brazilian growers, forcing some to cut spending on
products such as fertilizers that they buy in dollars, according
to Ourique, whose cooperative produces about 3.2 million bags a
year. That would curb output from the 2014-15 season.  Exporting coffee rather than stockpiling may be the best
option for growers, according to Kona Haque, a London-based
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. The average cost of production
dropped to $1.15 a pound from $1.35 at the start of the year as
the real weakened, the bank estimates.  The real may weaken a further 20 percent as Latin America’s
largest economy slows and the government budget deficit widens,
Themistoklis Fiotakis, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
 London , wrote in a June 20 report. More than a million people
took to the streets in the past month to demonstrate against
inflation, government corruption and public services.  During the last major devaluation of the real, a 30 percent
drop in 2008, green-coffee exports rose 5 percent to a then-record 26.033 million bags even as the harvest declined 16
percent, Cecafe and USDA  data  show. Brazil also exports robusta,
the second-most-consumed coffee variety.  Million Bags  Global coffee  production , including robusta that accounts
for 41 percent of supply, will exceed demand by 4.46 million
bags in 2013-2014, from a 10 million-bag surplus a year earlier,
according to the USDA. Inventories will reach a five-year high
of 30.53 million bags, the USDA predicts.  J.M. Smucker, which sells Folgers and Dunkin’ Donuts brand
coffees, announced price cuts averaging 6 percent in February.
The Orrville, Ohio-based company reported a 25 percent gain in
fourth-quarter net income to $130.3 million.  Kraft (KRFT) , based in
Northfield,  Illinois , said May 3 it would cut the price of 12-ounce cans of Gevalia coffee by 6 percent.  Starbucks said April 25 that its operating  profit  margin in
the quarter ended March 31 widened to 15.3 percent from 13.5
percent a year earlier, partly because of cheaper beans. The
company cut its packaged-coffee prices by 10 percent that month.  Hedge funds and other large speculators are almost the most
bearish they’ve ever been, with a  net-short  position of 27,560
futures and options, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data that begins in 2006.  “Continued bearish fundamentals and the weaker real could
take coffee down to $1,” said Ashmead Pringle, the president of
Atlanta-based GreenHaven Commodity Services, whose $460 million
GreenHaven Continuous Commodity Index Fund tracks a basket of
commodities. “I wouldn’t buy it right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  