-- Commerzbank Slumps on Sovereign Debt Concern: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   A n g e l a   C u l l e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-07-03T10:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/commerzbank-slumps-on-sovereign-debt-concern-frankfurt-mover.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the German bank
forced to raise capital five times in the past four years, fell
the most since March on concern that exposure to southern
European debt may add to its financial woes.  Commerzbank dropped as much as 6.9 percent to 5.73 euros in
 Frankfurt , the lowest intraday price on record and taking losses
this year to 46 percent. The 47-member Stoxx 600 Banks Index
fell 3 percent.  “There seems to be renewed concern about holdings of
peripheral bonds in Italy, Spain and Portugal given the public
finance exposure the bank has,” Riccardo Rovere, an analyst at
 Mediobanca SpA (MB) , said by telephone from Milan.  Commerzbank’s declines were surpassed only by lenders in
Portugal and Spain in a sell-off sparked by the second
resignation of a Portuguese government minister in two days,
which sent the country’s 10-year bond yield to 8 percent for the
first time since November.  Commerzbank had 2.9 billion euros ($3.8 billion) of
exposure to debt in Portugal and 12.2 billion euros to Spain at
the end of March, company filings show. Those figures combine
sovereign, banking, commercial real estate and other debt.  ’Nothing Attractive’  The bank last raised capital in May, offering existing
shareholders 2.5 billion euros of new shares to repay debt to
the government and insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)   “There’s nothing attractive about the Commerzbank story,”
 Dirk Becker , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Frankfurt,
said by telephone. “The capital increase, poor first-quarter
earnings. The second quarter is likely to be no better, and the
outlook for the rest of the year and 2014 is poor. There’s no
reason to buy this stock at the moment.”  Banks in Europe also fell after  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded Deutsche Bank AG,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG. (CSGN)  New banking regulations and “uncertain market
conditions” threatened their business, S&P said yesterday.  Costs of firing staff contributed to a loss of 94 million
euros at Commerzbank in the first three months of the year.
Profit for 2012 was almost wiped out by charges on the sale of
its Ukrainian unit and taxes.  “Every year without a profit delays their efforts to build
capital,” Guido Hoymann, an analyst with Bankhaus Metzler who
recommends selling the shares, said by telephone.  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing , who handed the
government a 25 percent stake in 2009 as part of an 18.2
billion-euro state bailout, says he’s turning the firm around by
eliminating staff and winding down shipping and real estate
assets.  Karsten Swoboda, a spokesman for Commerzbank, declined to
comment on the recent decline in the share price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  