-- Companies Discriminating Against U.K. Reservists May Face Action
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-07-03T12:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/companies-discriminating-against-u-k-reservists-may-face-action.html
Companies that discriminate against
staff who want to serve as U.K. army reservists could be taken
to employment tribunals as part of a government drive to
increase the number of part-time soldiers announced today.  “While defense is fully committed to an open and
collaborative relationship with employers, it is essential that
the interests of reservists are protected,” Defence Secretary
Philip Hammond told parliamentarians in  London . “Dismissal of
reservists on the grounds of their mobilized reserve service is
already illegal. We will legislate in the forthcoming Defence
Reform Bill to ensure access to employment tribunals in claims
for unfair dismissals on grounds of reserve service without a
qualifying employment period.”  The government wants to increase the number of reservists
to 35,000 by 2018 from 22,000 currently to back up the regular
army. Defense budget cuts mean the U.K. is scaling back its
regular army to 82,000 personnel, about half its size at the
height of the  Cold War  in 1978. The Territorial Army will be
known as the Army Reserve.  There will be no offense of discriminating against
reservists when hiring. That may be reviewed if evidence mounts
that employers aren’t taking on reservists in time for the next
Armed Forces bill in 2015.  The U.K. is investing 1.8 billion pounds ($2.75 billion) in
the reservist program over 10 years to improve equipment, offer
better employment terms to personnel and 500-pound grants per
month to small- and medium-sized firms when their employees are
mobilized.  Research by the Federation of Small Businesses found 36
percent of respondents saying nothing would encourage them to
employ a member of the backup forces. The federation received
1,836 responses to an online poll between December 2012 and
January 2013.  The opposition  Labour Party ’s defense spokesman,  Jim Murphy , told lawmakers he had concerns the increase in
reservists is designed to disguise the fact that the regular
army is being reduced, not to complement it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  