-- Nickel Slumps Most in a Week Amid Global Economic Growth Concern
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-07-03T17:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/copper-gains-as-traders-close-bearish-bets-amid-supply-concern.html
Nickel slumped the most in a week
amid speculation that the financial crisis in  Europe  will
further depress metals demand in the region and as political
tension increased in  Egypt .  Two Portuguese ministers resigned from the government in a
dispute with Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  over fiscal
policies, while borrowing costs increased in Spain and Italy.
Crude oil surged on concern that rallies in Egypt by
demonstrators protesting the rule of President Mohamed Mursi may
disrupt Middle Eastern supply. Nickel stockpiles monitored by
the London Metal Exchange rose 1 percent to a record 190,590
metric tons, data from the bourse showed today.  “Worries about Europe and rising oil prices are not so
great for the metals market,”  Tom Power, a senior commodity
broker at R.J. O’Brien & Associates in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. “The fundamentals for the nickel market
remain weak.”  Nickel for delivery in three months slumped 1.3 percent to
settle at $13,855 a ton at 5:50 p.m. on the LME, the biggest
drop since June 26. Prices are down 19 percent this year, after
touching a four-year low of $13,525 on June 25.  Aluminum, tin, lead and zinc also fell in  London , while
copper rose.  China’s State Reserve Bureau was buying aluminum, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said in a report yesterday. Speculation that
the stockpiling agency was purchasing copper supported the
market, according to James Marks, a co-head of global metals at
Xconnect Trading Ltd., a London-based interdealer broker.  On the Comex in  New York , copper futures for September
delivery climbed 1 percent to $3.1745 a pound. Floor trading at
the exchange will be closed tomorrow for the Independence Day
holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net   ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  