-- Countrywide Board Should Face Investor Claims, Court Told
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-07-03T18:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/countrywide-board-should-face-investor-claims-court-told.html
Former Countrywide Financial Corp.
directors, including ex-Chief Executive Officer  Angelo Mozilo ,
should be forced to face claims that they misled investors about
the quality of the mortgage-lender’s loans, a lawyer for
shareholders told an appeals court.  Delaware’s corporate laws shouldn’t allow  Mozilo  and other
former board members to escape liability for lying to investors
simply because directors rushed to sell the ailing lender in
2008 to  Bank of America Corp. ,  Stuart Grant , an attorney for
shareholders, told the  Delaware Supreme Court  today.  A federal appeals court asked Delaware’s highest court to
decide whether the state’s corporate statutes eliminate
investors’ rights to sue directors for allegedly fraudulent acts
when a company is acquired. More than 60 percent of Fortune 500
companies are incorporated in  Delaware  and its laws are widely
used to decide corporate disputes.  Investors’ claims shouldn’t be “thwarted by a merger that
was actuated by fraud,” Grant told the appeals court at a
hearing in Dover.  Countrywide investors are hoping the Delaware court’s
ruling will allow them to revive lawsuits filed in federal court
in  Los Angeles  aimed at holding Mozilo and other Countrywide
directors liable for losses tied to the U.S. economic downturn
starting in 2007 and subprime mortgages.  SEC Fine  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America acquired
Countrywide, once the U.S.’s largest mortgage lender, for about
$4 billion in 2008. The bank agreed in 2010 to a $600 million
settlement that resolved investors’ securities-fraud claims over
the mortgage unit’s activities.  Mozilo agreed to a record $67.5 million settlement that
same year to resolve U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
claims that he misled investors. The SEC accused Mozilo and
other Countrywide officials of publicly reassuring investors
about the quality of Countrywide’s loans while knowing the
lender fueled its growth with lax underwriting guidelines and a
portfolio filled with risky subprime loans.  The Delaware  Supreme Court  case is Arkansas Teacher
Retirement System v. Countrywide Financial Corp., No. 14, 2013,
Supreme Court of Delaware (Dover).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  