-- Crest Now Favors Clearwire Deal After Sprint Raises Offer
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-07-03T17:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/crest-ends-opposition-to-clearwire-deal-after-sprint-raised-bid.html
Crest Financial Ltd., the Houston-based investment firm that opposed  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s
takeover of  Clearwire (CLWR)  Corp., has reversed course and will vote
in favor of the deal, according to a  filing  today.  Crest, saying it’s now satisfied with the terms of the
deal, is withdrawing “any statements made in the heat of
battle.”  David Schumacher, the investment company’s attorney,
had called Sprint “oppressive” in a June 11  letter  to
Clearwire, where the company also said “Sprint has attempted to
squeeze-out Clearwire’s minority stockholders on the cheap.”  Crest, one of Clearwire’s most vocal minority shareholders,
is supporting the deal almost two weeks after Sprint raised its
offer for Clearwire to $5 a share, 14 percent higher than a
competing proposal from satellite-TV provider  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) 
Clearwire’s board accepted the sweetened terms from Sprint,
allowing the third-largest U.S. wireless company to buy the half
of Clearwire it doesn’t already own.  Clearwire, a wireless  Internet service provider , became a
central focus of a bidding battle between Sprint and Dish, and
part of a broader fight between Dish and  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  for
control of Sprint. SoftBank, the Tokyo-based carrier run by
billionaire Masayoshi Son, is seeking to enter the U.S. wireless
market.  A special Clearwire shareholder vote on the Sprint offer is
planned for July 8 at 1:30 p.m. New York time in Bellevue,
Washington, where Clearwire is based.  Clearwire was unchanged at $5 at the close in New York. The
shares have gained 73 percent this year, buoyed by the bidding
war.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  