-- Czech Ministry Seeks to Boost Pension Funds to Hinder Opposition
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-07-03T13:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/czech-ministry-seeks-to-boost-pension-funds-to-hinder-opposition.html
The Czech Finance Ministry is seeking
to boost private pension savings to counter plans by the
opposition  Social Democrats  to seize the retirement funds if
they win the next election.  A draft bill presented by Deputy Finance Minister Radek Urban today would enable more people to divert part of their
social security tax to private accounts. The second-pillar
pension funds have attracted 74,573 members since their creation
six months ago, compared with the full-year plan of about
500,000, according to the Association of Pension Funds.  The country’s three-party ruling coalition, which has made
private pensions a cornerstone of its policy, is racing against
the clock as lagging membership makes it easier for the Social
Democrats, who lead opinion polls before 2014 general elections,
to scrap the private accounts. That risk is among reasons for
low membership, said Karel Svoboda, head of the association.  “The number of subscriptions to date suggests the target
won’t be met,” Svoboda said at a joint news conference with
Urban in Prague. “We will all do everything to help the second
pillar survive political turbulence. Canceling it would be a
major mistake that would erode society’s confidence in private
investment at a time when there is no alternative.”  Proposed Changes  If approved by parliament, the ministry’s amendment would
increase the maximum age at which taxpayers can opt for private
savings to 40 from 35, Urban said. A deadline for older people
that elapsed at the end of June would be extended until the end
of next year and members would be allowed to quit after five
years and shift funds back to the government-run pension system,
according to the proposal.  The three-year-old coalition is losing voter support after
it used spending cuts and higher taxes to curb the deficit and
as a spying and bribery scandal prompted Premier Petr Necas to
resign last month. President Milos Zeman last week picked former
Finance Minister Jiri Rusnok to lead a caretaker cabinet, saying
the move is designed to trigger early elections.  Necas’s administration previously said revamping the
pension system would curb future budget deficits as the aging
population of more than 10 million would rely less on the public
pay-as-you-go system, where taxpayers finance current retirees’
pensions. The Social Democrats have opposed the move as
antisocial.  ING Groep NV announced last year that it wouldn’t offer
second-pillar accounts in the  Czech Republic  because of the risk
the opposition would scrap the program. Rusnok, who at that time
was chief executive officer at the Dutch bank’s Czech pensions
unit, said in an interview for Lidove Noviny newspaper published
in November that the pensions revamp was “in ruins.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  