-- Danish CoCo Venture Risks Derailing Troubled Banks, S&P Says
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-07-04T08:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/danish-coco-experiment-risks-derailing-troubled-banks-s-p-says.html
Experimental capital instruments that
 Denmark  is letting banks use to build regulatory buffers may
inadvertently trigger a cycle of losses,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  The bonds convert to equity at a specified price when a
capital threshold is breached. That conversion mechanism could
spur a dangerous slide in a lender’s stock price and damage its
ability to raise more capital, said Per Tornqvist, a Stockholm-based bank analyst at S&P.  “By creating clarity at what price an instrument converts,
you don’t necessarily create the wanted outcome,” Tornqvist
said yesterday in a phone interview. “There are always market
participants that may act on the information with a different
mind-set. Hence clarity on regulation is not always ensuring the
wanted result.”  Denmark, whose the $320 billion  economy  stalled in the
first quarter after shrinking 0.6 percent in the final months of
2012, is looking for ways to ease pressure on banks and help
them lend more as they cope with tougher capital rules. The
central bank said last month the industry isn’t making enough
money as customers deleverage and writedowns from a 2008 burst
property bubble remain high.  The Financial Supervisory Authority said in January banks
would be allowed to use contingent convertible capital to meet
individual solvency needs after tightening its methods for
calculating requirements. Banks will be able to use CoCos in
addition to equity and retained profits.  Loss Trigger  The regulator is also looking into letting Denmark’s
systemically important financial institutions use CoCos to help
them meet additional  capital requirements . The instruments,
which would fill a proposed crisis-management buffer, would
convert to equity while a lender is still solvent.  Denmark is getting outside support for its experiment.  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said in a June
13  speech  that new capital requirements don’t go far enough to
ensuring financial stability, and regulators should consider
requiring banks to issue CoCos, thereby incorporating equity-generating measures into their capital structures.  According to Tornqvist at S&P, investors in a bank that
issues CoCos will drive down the share price until it reaches
the conversion trigger.  “It won’t trade higher than the conversion rate,” he
said. That could undermine efforts to raise new equity and
ultimately deplete capital buffers, he said.  The warning from S&P comes as banks look for ways to reduce
the cost of building capital as requirements mount. Yet debt
instruments designed to contribute to regulatory buffers are
proving hard to navigate.  Capital Review  Banks also face risks when using hybrid securities as
rating companies probe the instruments’ loss-absorbing capacity.
S&P said in March it’s reviewing criteria for risk-adjusted
capital, with the prospect of a change of rules threatening to
undermine the equity content of a $1 billion 2037 bond issued by
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in September. Any change in the definition of
hybrids won’t jeopardize Danske’s issuer rating, Tornqvist said.  “If we were to exclude it from Danske Bank’s risk-adjusted
capital calculation, it would not change our opinion on the
bank’s capital,” Tornqvist said. “The ratio would still be in
the range of 7 percent to 10 percent, which we consider to be
adequate.”  The FSA last month set triggers for banks planning to meet
individual solvency requirements with CoCos. Banks will be able
to choose between a threshold of 7 percent core equity Tier 1
and an individual solvency requirement, which includes Tier 2
capital, the FSA said June 12.  New Risks  That matches European standards and is well below the
10.125 percent a government-appointed committee in March
recommended be applied to systemically important banks.  “Clarity can be good: you draw a line in the sand and say
no further,” Tornqvist said. “But by doing so, you will risk
creating other issues.”  The central bank urged lenders last month to continue to
improve their earnings and capitalization. Return on equity
“has been low in recent years,” the bank said in its annual
review of the country’s financial industry.  The country’s six too-big-to-fail banks, led by Danske and
mortgage lender Nykredit Realkredit A/S, reported last year an
average return on equity of 3.6 percent after tax. The average
for the rest of the industry was negative.  “Our expectation is that impairment losses will be
reduced, and there will be cost savings in the industry,”
Tornqvist said. “There are initiatives to boost the top line as
much as can be done during a period of low  interest rates .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  