-- De Beers Miners to Strike as Soon as July 5 in South Africa
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-07-03T16:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/de-beers-miners-to-strike-as-soon-as-july-5-in-south-africa.html
South African miners at De Beers, the
world’s biggest diamond producer, will strike as early as July 5
after talks to mediate wage negotiations stalled, according to
the  National Union of Mineworkers .  “We’ve given notification to strike,” Peter Bailey, chief
negotiator for the union, said by phone. The NUM represents
almost 2,000 workers at the  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  unit. “We are in
a formal dispute,” he said.  Representatives from De Beers and the union met today at
the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration after
disagreeing over wages. South Africa’s mining industry is
negotiating with labor in regular wage talks in segments
including diamonds, platinum, gold and coal.  “Several demands from the union, which all have high cost
implications and which the union was not prepared to negotiate
on, lead us to a point where we could not agree on a
settlement,” Wayne Smerdon,  De Beers ’ lead negotiator, said in
a statement. “The company had on the table a competitive offer
which was sustainable into the future.” London-based Anglo owns
85 percent of De Beers.  Earlier Discussions  NUM lowered its demand to a 13 percent increase in wages
from 17 percent, while De Beers moved up its offer half a
percentage point to five percent in earlier discussions,
according to Bailey. The  union  is asking for other adjustments,
including a 1 percent increase in contributions to the pension
fund, he said.  “De Beers hasn’t been willing to come in with a good
offer,” Bailey said. The day shift on July 5 would be the
earliest to strike, he said.  De Beers’  South Africa  operations account for about 16
percent of total carats recovered. The company also has
operations in Botswana, Canada and  Namibia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  