-- Debt Limit Be Damned as U.S. Content With Talkless Summer
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   N i c h o l s o n
-- 2013-07-03T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/debt-limit-be-damned-as-u-s-content-with-talkless-summer.html
Congress is increasingly unlikely to
start talks on getting a budget deal and forestalling a debt
limit impasse before the next five-week break in August.  Several factors are at play: brightening deficit forecasts
from the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office , a crowded July
calendar dominated by potential action on immigration and the
lack of an obvious starting point for bargaining between two
sides that remain far apart, Bloomberg BNA reported.  With the Treasury expected to exhaust its borrowing
capacity between October to December, officials had expected a
fall showdown. By waiting until after the August recess to lay
out even opening positions on taxes and spending, lawmakers and
the White House may be setting the stage for a sprint in the
last few months of 2013.  “It seems to be fading,” said Representative Tom Cole, a
Republican from  Oklahoma . “I have not heard as much about it
because there seems to be less and less pressure, because the
debt ceiling keeps drifting further back. So I think that has
reduced the pressure.”  Cole previously said he wanted  House Republicans  to agree
on a bill to be voted on before the August recess, saying that
may give them a leg up politically by being able to tell voters
back home they had put forward a solution. Instead, an overhaul
of the nation’s immigration law may take up much of the House’s
efforts in July. A special party conference has been set by
House Republicans for July 10 to discuss immigration.  Real Consequences  The upcoming deadlines later in the year -- Sept. 30 for
appropriations bills for fiscal 2014 and the debt ceiling soon
after -- mean priorities perhaps should be reversed, Cole said.  “To me, that’s a more pressing issue, because that has
deadlines and real consequences if you don’t act,” Cole said.
“If you don’t pass an immigration bill, there may or may not be
a political consequence to that in 2014.”  In his May memo to House Republicans, Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  listed several priorities in addition to “the expected
discussion and actions on the debt limit.” In his memo
outlining June’s floor agenda, the Virginia Republican changed
the phrasing to “we will also continue our focus on how to deal
with our broken immigration system as well as the debt limit.”  In the Senate, the outlook isn’t much brighter. Democrats
continue to press their attack that Republicans are uninterested
in negotiating a budget in a conference committee, even after
criticizing Democrats for not taking up a budget plan for three
years until 2013.  “It’s extremely important that we proceed forward to find
a way to replace sequestration and deal with the budget deal,”
said Senator  Patty Murray , the Washington Democrat who runs the
Senate Budget Committee. “And we can’t deal with that until
they allow us to go conference and I’m hopeful that they’ll do
that.”  Republicans want a pre-conference agreement on the scope of
a House-Senate deal before a conference committee is named.  Informal Talks  The lone bright spot may be in talks between an informal
group of Republicans and White House officials. Those so far
appear to have been limited to looking for a common definition
of issue -- over how long a time frame a deal should stretch,
for example -- and not details of specific policies.  One of the senators in those talks didn’t sound like he
expected much in July.  “The problem’s not going to go away,” said Senator  Ron Johnson , a Wisconsin Republican. “There’s goodwill residing on
both sides if they want to fix the problem, so we’ve got to keep
talking. We continue to talk and look at different figures.”  Ratings Concern  In response to lower-than-expected deficit projections and
stronger revenue from a growing economy, ratings companies
signaled an easing concern on the government’s creditworthiness.  In 2011,  Standard & Poor’s  took the U.S. rating down from
AAA to AA+, while Fitch and Moody’s Investors Service maintained
the top rating and put the U.S. outlook on a negative credit
watch, signaling the next move was likely a downgrade. On June
28, Fitch affirmed its rating and outlook.  Fitch cited “continuing uncertainty over the prospect for
additional deficit-reduction measures,” near-term risks as
federal appropriations authority expires Sept. 30 and “in
particular a timely increase in the debt limit.”  Even if nothing reached the floor in July, the Treasury may
provide additional information on how the autumn will shape up
at a press conference July 31 that could allow officials to
update a forecast that it will not run out of borrowing capacity
“until after Labor Day.” Private sector estimates have put the
date between late October and early December.  Cole said the lack of action is the fault of both the White
House, which insists that no conditions being tied to a debt
ceiling increase, and Congress.  “It usually acts at the very last minute,” Cole said.
“The last minute’s been pushed back so, oh my gosh, we have all
this extra time. Let’s avoid the hard work.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  