-- Dentsu to Sell $1.2 Billion in Shares to Pay Aegis Deal Debt
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-07-04T06:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/dentsu-to-raise-1-2-billion-to-repay-debt-from-aegis-takeover.html
Dentsu Inc. (4324) , the Japanese advertising
company that bought Aegis Group Plc, will raise as much as 120.1
billion yen ($1.2 billion) in a public share sale to help pay
for the deal. The stock slumped the most in a month.  The company will offer as many as 29 million shares it owns
and 8 million new shares to investors in  Japan  and overseas,
Tokyo-based Dentsu said in a  statement  yesterday. The proceeds
will be used to repay part of its 200 billion yen short-term
 debt  from the acquisition that was completed in March, it said.  Dentsu paid 3.16 billion pounds ($4.8 billion) for Aegis as
Japan’s biggest agency competes with global firms including  WPP
Plc (WPP)  and  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC)  With Japan’s benchmark Topix index on
pace for its best result since 2005, the  112-year-old  company is
tapping an equities boom to fund the deal that added the largest
independent buyer of advertising space and reduced its reliance
on the domestic market.  “The stock market’s recovery trend since last November is
helping Dentsu to go for the sale, which will lead to an
improvement of its capital base,” said  Mitsushige Akino , chief
fund manager at Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo .
“Shares will probably react negatively on dilution concern.”  Dentsu fell 9.2 percent, the biggest drop since May 30, to
3,155 yen at the close in Tokyo. The stock has climbed 37
percent this year. The Topix has gained 36 over the same period.  Equity Sales  Companies have raised $26.5 billion in share sales in Japan
this year, compared with $22.8 billion for all of 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This year’s figure
doesn’t include Dentsu’s share sale.  Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd., which listed its shares
yesterday on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, raised 388 billion yen in
an initial public offering,  Asia ’s largest this year. Aeon Mall
Co. and  Dena Co. (2432)  are also among the companies that raised funds
through share sales, the data show.  “There probably will be more financing deals using shares
by various Japanese companies,” said Ichiro Takamatsu, a  fund
manager  at Bayview Asset Management Co. “Companies including
Dentsu need funding for expansion overseas as it’s hard to look
for growth opportunities in Japan.”  About  80 percent  of Aegis’s 2011 revenue of 1.14 billion
pounds came from outside the Asia-Pacific region, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The home market accounted for 86
percent of Dentsu’s  sales  last year, the data show.  Nomura Holdings Inc. and five other firms will help arrange
the sale and the offering price will be set between July 22 and
24, according to a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  