-- DNB Declines as Earnings Seen Weighed Down by Costs: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-07-03T10:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/dnb-declines-as-earnings-seen-weighed-down-by-costs-oslo-mover.html
DNB ASA (DNB) ,  Norway ’s biggest bank, fell
the most in a week in Oslo amid negative sentiment toward the
industry and as analysts warned the lender’s quarterly earnings
will be hit by weak trading income and restructuring costs.  The Oslo-based lender dropped as much as 2.2 percent, the
biggest intraday decline since June 24, and traded 2.1 percent
lower at 88.55 kroner as of 12:20 p.m. The Bloomberg EMEA Banks
Index, of which DNB is a part, slumped as much as 3.3 percent to
56.71, the lowest intraday level in more than seven months.  Stocks fell around the world today after two Portuguese
ministers quit the government, prompting concern that the nation
will struggle to implement further budget cuts as its bailout
program enters the final 12 months. More than 17 stocks dropped
for every one that climbed on the Stoxx 600, with a gauge of
banks posting the biggest decline of the 19 industry groups on
the  equity benchmark , falling 2.6 percent.  DNB, which is targeting annual growth in net interest
income of more than 6 percent, is cutting costs, holding back
dividends and increasing margins to boost reserves to meet a
tightening of  capital requirements  under Basel III guidelines.  The lender, scheduled to release its second-quarter results
on July 11, will report operating expenses “at an elevated
level, driven by restructuring costs,” Vegard Eid Mediaas and
Jon David Gjertsen, analysts at Pareto Securities AS, said in a
note today. The lender is expected to book restructuring costs
of 410 million kroner ($67 million) in the quarter, they said.  Financial Turmoil  “We maintain our assumption of no dividends for 2013
through 2015, as we see a significant capital shortfall ahead of
Basel III,” said the analysts, who cut their earnings per share
estimates for that period by 4 percent to 5 percent.  DNB, which has benefited from a strong position in a home
market that’s largely avoided the worst of the financial turmoil
in  Europe , is lagging other banks in the Nordic region in terms
of cutting costs, according to  Nordea Bank AB. (NDA)   “Management has numerous opportunities to streamline
operations and thereby create further savings,” the Stockholm-based bank said in a report yesterday. Those savings should help
DNB grow earnings faster than its Nordic peers, Nordea said.  DNB will record a 89 million-krone negative effect for
basis swaps, or derivative contracts related to long-term
funding, in the second quarter, narrowing from 233 million
kroner the previous quarter, it said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  