-- Dogan Yayin’s Digital TV Unit D-Smart Plans Bid for Digiturk
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-07-03T14:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/dogan-yayin-s-digital-tv-unit-d-smart-plans-bid-for-digiturk.html
D-Smart ,  Turkey ’s second-biggest
digital TV operator, plans to bid in a government auction to
sell seized Digiturk, its most formidable rival.  D-Smart, owned by media group  Dogan Yayin Holding AS (DYHOL) , plans
to merge the companies should it win the auction and get
antitrust clearance, Chief Executive Officer Ali Guven said
today in a telephone interview.  “There will be good synergies if we merge the two
companies,” Guven said.  A merger with Digiturk would yield as many as 5 million
subscribers, compared with D-Smart’s current base of 1.6 million
TV box users and 370,000 Internet subscribers, according to
Guven. Digiturk’s customers include 1 million users of Lig TV,
which holds Turkey’s Super League soccer rights, he said.  Turkey’s Savings Deposit Insurance Fund, or TMSF, took over
Digiturk, formally known as Krea Icerik Hizmetleri & Produksiyon
AS, and other media assets from Cukurova Holding AS in May after
Cukurova failed to repay a $455 million debt. TMSF chief Sakir Ercan Gul has said the fund may sell the entire company if
Providence Equity Partners Inc., a U.S. buyout firm, agrees to
sell its 46 percent stake along with Cukurova’s 54 percent.  D-Smart expects a sale process to start soon, Guven said.
The company’s formal name is Dogan TV Digital Platform
Isletmeciligi AS.  TMSF Process  Cukurova, one of three major investors in Turkey’s biggest
mobile operator  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) , will start the
sale process under the auspices of TMSF, according to a
spokesman for the investor.  Cukurova has already agreed to sell AKS Televizyon
Reklamcilik Yayincilik & Filmcilik AS, which owns the Show TV
channel, for $402 million to a Ciner Holding unit.  D-Smart has sales of more than 500 million liras ($257
million) a year and Digiturk’s revenue is about 1.3 billion
liras, Guven said. Digiturk declined to comment on sales and
subscriber numbers.  D-Smart has a two-year agreement with Dogus Holding AS’s
NTV Spor that allows it to show Spanish La Liga soccer games on
its pay channels, Guven said. Dogus, which owns CNBC’s Turkish
version and news channel NTV, is also interested in buying
Digiturk, Milliyet reported June 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 