-- Dotcom Spars With N.Z. Prime Minister at Spy-Law Hearing
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-07-03T07:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/dotcom-spars-with-n-z-prime-minister-at-spy-law-hearing.html
Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom
accused  New Zealand  Prime Minister John Key of lying as the two
clashed at a parliamentary hearing on new spying laws.  Dotcom came face-to-face with Key today for the first time
since armed police stormed his Auckland-suburb mansion in
January last year and his cloud-storage Internet site was shut
down by the U.S. on piracy charges. He sparred with Key, who
denied knowing about the Internet entrepreneur before the raid.  Key knew of him “well before the raid,” Dotcom said.
“You know I know,” he said, turning to the prime minister and
drawing laughter from the gallery. “Why are you turning red
prime minister?”  “Why are you sweating?” Key replied.  “It’s hot,” Dotcom retorted.  The confrontation took place at a hearing into new
legislation that was prompted by Dotcom’s arrest in what the
U.S. calls the biggest copyright infringement case in its
history. New Zealand’s foreign intelligence agency, the
Government Communications & Security Bureau, was revealed to
have illegally spied on Dotcom as part of the U.S.-led
operation.  The proposed law changes would allow the GCSB to carry out
domestic spying on New Zealanders under certain circumstances,
including intercepting phone calls and e-mails and tracking
electronic communications. The current legislation restricts the
agency’s operations to monitoring “foreign” communications,
organizations and people. While Dotcom was born in  Germany  as
Kim Schmitz, he has New Zealand residency and had legally
changed his name.  Cyber Security  Key argues that New Zealand’s Security Intelligence Service
can already collect information on citizens, and that the laws
governing the GCSB need to be clarified and brought up to date
in a rapidly changing cyber-security environment.  The new law is “morally indefensible” and would set New
Zealand on the same path as the U.S., which is facing
accusations of mass cyber surveillance after leaks by former
national security contractor Edward Snowden, Dotcom said.  “We should avoid blindly following the U.S. into the dark
ages of spying abuse,” he said.  Key apologized to Dotcom in September for the GCSB’s
activity. Dotcom, 39, has sued the GCSB for intercepting his
communications. He is scheduled to face a hearing on his
extradition to the U.S. next month.  Dotcom was indicted in January 2012 in  Virginia  on charges
of racketeering,  money laundering , copyright infringement and
 wire fraud .  Helicopter Raid  New Zealand police used helicopters and an assault team
during the raid on Dotcom’s home, seizing 18  luxury vehicles ,
including a 1959 pink Cadillac, art, cash, computers and hard
drives.  A New Zealand judge ruled in June the search was illegal
because police used overly broad and invalid warrants. Dotcom
marked the anniversary of the raid this year by unveiling a
successor file-storage and sharing site called Mega, which uses
encryption code to protect content. He has also become a
celebrity commentator on Internet freedom.  Dotcom said today he intends to stay in New Zealand and
become more involved in politics.  The New Zealand case is Between Kim Dotcom and Attorney
General. CIV2012-404-001928.  High Court  of New Zealand
(Auckland). The U.S. case is: USA v. Dotcom. 12-cr-00003. U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia
(Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  