-- Draghi Secret Roadmap Coveted as Yields Jump: Euro Credit
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-07-03T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/draghi-secret-roadmap-coveted-as-yields-jump-euro-credit.html
Mario Draghi may need to give
investors a better peek at his policy roadmap as bond yields in
Europe rise once again.  With  Portugal’s 10-year yield  yesterday climbing above 8
percent for the first time since November and the Federal
Reserve signaling it may remove monetary stimulus, investors are
now seeking assurance from the European Central Bank president
that it has no plans to end its current accommodative stance.
Some economists are suggesting Draghi will go a step further and
offer commitments on the path of interest rates.  “Forward guidance is probably the most powerful tool the
ECB has left,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN
Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “It’s certainly something they need
to consider because financial markets are pricing in higher
short-term interest rates.”  Almost a year after Draghi halted an increase in borrowing
costs by saying he’ll do “whatever it takes” to save the euro,
bond investors are signaling that more is needed, in words if
not in deeds. The ECB head used a form of forward guidance in
March when he said for the first time that monetary policy
“will remain accommodative for as long as needed.” With some
economic indicators showing an improvement, his challenge now is
to pledge that the central bank will keep rates low without
compromising its inflation goal or boxing itself into a corner.  Forecast Survey  The Frankfurt-based ECB will keep its  benchmark interest
rate  unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent today, according
to 61 of 62 forecasts in a  Bloomberg News survey  of economists.
Morgan Stanley is the only institution predicting a reduction,
by a quarter point.  The decision is due at 1:45 p.m. in Frankfurt and Draghi
will hold a press conference 45 minutes later. The Bank of
England, at its first rate decision under new governor Mark Carney, will keep its  bond-purchase target  at 375 billion pounds
($573 billion) and maintain its  key rate  at 0.5 percent,
separate surveys show. That decision is due at noon in  London .  Additional forward guidance may help the ECB keep market
interest rates in the 17-nation euro area from rising to levels
that threaten to prevent the currency bloc emerging from its
longest-ever recession.  Portuguese Resignations  On July 2, banks  charged  each other 8.2 basis points, or
0.082 percent, for overnight lending, compared with as little as
5.6 basis points in February. Bond yields in Portugal have
spiraled since the resignation of two of the nation’s ministers
sparked concern austerity fatigue will derail fiscal reforms.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield rose six basis points yesterday
to 4.5 percent while the 10-year bond yield for Spain jumped
more than 14 basis points to 4.768 percent.  Germany ’s bunds
advanced, with the 10-year yield dropping 4 basis points to
1.660 percent.  “Draghi will use the press conference to reassure banks
and markets that there is a consensus in favor of an
accommodative policy,” said Christian Schulz, an economist at
Berenberg Bank in London. “He will provide everything short of
Fed-style forward guidance to signal that the ECB will keep
rates very low, liquidity provision generous and the OMT
commitment credible as long as necessary.”  OMT, or Outright Monetary Transactions, is the ECB’s as-yet-unused pledge to buy the bonds of crisis-hit countries in
the euro area that sign up to reform conditions. Judges at the
German Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe are considering whether
the program contravenes the nation’s Basic Law.  Guidance Risks  The theory behind forward guidance is that it boosts weaker
economies by lowering the anticipated path of interest rates
while signaling the bank will tolerate higher inflation. The Fed
has gone the furthest among major central banks by tying changes
in its benchmark rate directly to indicators for employment and
inflation, setting thresholds that dictate the lifespan of easy
money.  The ECB is looking “carefully” at the U.S. experience,
Executive Board member Benoit Coeure said in an interview with
The Times last week.  Still, the Fed’s example shows that forward guidance comes
with risks. Financial markets slumped after Fed chairman Ben S. Bernanke said June 19 that the central bank could stop
purchasing assets around the middle of next year when
joblessness “would likely be in the vicinity of 7 percent.”  ‘Distant’ Exit  Central bankers including Draghi, the then Bank of England
Governor Mervyn King and ECB Governing Council members said a
week later that an exit to current monetary policy is
“distant.” Richard Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve
Bank of  Dallas , said that officials are talking about a
“dialing back” rather than an exit, and Minneapolis Fed
President Narayana Kocherlakota said the Fed must emphasize that
policy will remain accommodative “for a considerable time.”  For the ECB, “forward guidance linked to real economic
benchmarks - à la the Fed - is less likely, as highlighted by
the problems of forward guidance in the U.S.,” Michala Marcussen, global head of economics at Societe Generale SA in
London, said in a note this week. It also risks “possibly
diluting the ECB’s primary objective of price stability,” she
said.  ECB policy makers have said that the central bank’s primary
goal of price stability won’t change and that inflation rates
above two percent won’t be tolerated in the medium term. At the
same time, Draghi has several options to choose from when
extending forward guidance.  Delphic Guidance  He could tell investors how long low interest rates will
last, mirroring an existing commitment to supply unlimited
liquidity to euro-area banks against collateral until mid-2014.
If new Bank of England Governor Mark Carney’s policy at his
former job at the Bank of Canada is an inspiration, the ECB
might commit to keep rates low for a set period of time, unless
inflation spirals above a target.  Fixing the rate charged on longer-term refinancing
operations would be a more indirect commitment to keep rates
unchanged. At the moment, the interest banks pay is linked to
the average of the ECB’s benchmark over the life of the loan.  “The most likely form of guidance is a statement that exit
is ‘very distant’,” said Richard Barwell, senior European
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “But
it is possible that the Council will go the whole hog and commit
to time-contingent Delphic guidance to coincide with what is
already being done on the liquidity operations.”  Open Mind  Draghi said on June 26 in Paris that he has an “open
mind” about all possible instruments. Last month, he said
options include charging banks for depositing money with the
ECB, easing collateral rules, reviving the market for asset-backed securities and providing investors with greater guidance
on how long borrowing costs will stay low.  “The general attitude of the ECB is, ‘we have an open
mind, we can do more if needed,’’ said  Ken Wattret , an economist
at BNP Paribas SA in London. ‘‘But the appetite to do more is
rather limited at the moment.’’  While unemployment rose to a record 12.2 percent in May,
other indicators have signaled the economy may recover under
current monetary policy. Confidence in the currency bloc jumped
to the highest level in more than a year in June, a gauge of
manufacturing and services output improved for third month and
industrial output rose for a third month in April.  ‘‘Draghi will probably address the latest increase in bond
yields,’’ said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING in
Brussels. ‘‘He will not use traditional policy tools but rather
central bankers’ other powerful tool: words.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  