-- Dubai’s DGCX Plans to Offer Plastics, Renminbi Futures Contracts
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-07-03T12:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/dubai-s-dgcx-plans-to-offer-plastics-renminbi-futures-contracts.html
Dubai Gold & Commodities Exchange,
the  Middle East ’s first derivatives market, plans to offer
futures contracts based on polypropylene and the renminbi as it
seeks to tap into growing trade with China.  The deliverable plastics contracts, to be denominated in
dollars, are being developed in partnership with China’s Dalian
Commodity Exchange and are expected to begin trading in the
third quarter, Chief Executive Officer Gary Anderson said at a
news conference in Dubai today. The six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council, which includes oil-rich  Saudi Arabia  and the United
Arab Emirates, produce more than 20 percent of the world’s
plastics and a majority of that flows into China, he said.  The exchange aims to focus on contracts needed within the
region, Anderson said. The plastics contract will trade
alongside a  renminbi  futures contract to enable users to hedge
their exposure to the currency, he said.  State-controlled DGCX, established in 2005, already offers
futures contracts in metals, currencies and energy. Contracts
valued at $48.5 billion traded on DGCX in May with volume
jumping 70 percent from a year ago, the exchange said June 9.  DGCX will begin trading a futures contract based on the
Bombay Stock Exchange’s  S&P BSE Sensex Index (SENSEX)  from July 5,
Anderson said. The contract is its first equity product and will
give some 6 million Indians living in the Gulf, access to
country’s equity market, he said.  The bourse, a venture between the Dubai Multi Commodities
Center,  Financial Technologies India Ltd. (FTECH)  and the  Multi
Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. (MCX) , also plans to offer future
contracts on other stock indexes in the GCC next year as well as
contracts on pulses, cotton and sugar, Anderson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  