-- Dubai’s DEWA May Seek Funds for Power-Plant Expansion, CEO Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-07-03T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/dubai-s-dewa-may-seek-funds-for-power-plant-expansion-ceo-says.html
Dubai Electricity and Water
Authority, the government-owned utility in the Persian Gulf
emirate, may seek financing to pay for a power-plant-expansion
project, Chief Executive Officer Saeed  Al Tayer  said.  DEWA, as the company is known, plans to add two natural gas
turbines to its M Station facility in a project that may start
next year, Al Tayer said in an interview after a news conference
yesterday. He didn’t say how much the project to add 400
megawatts of generation capacity would cost or when the utility
might need the funds.  Dubai, the second-largest sheikdom in the  United Arab
Emirates , is boosting generating capacity to meet demand that’s
rising about 5 percent a year and plans to develop new sources
to lessen reliance on gas. The utility in February sold a $1
billion Islamic bond to repay debt and a month later Al Tayer
said the company wouldn’t need external funds until 2015.  The utility is planning to hire private companies to
develop and run a 100-megawatt solar power plant as the next
step in its renewable-energy push, Al Tayer said yesterday. DEWA
is building a 13-megawatt solar facility scheduled to be
completed in October and will give further details on the new
project later this year, he said.  Private companies will also build a coal plant the emirate
is planning, Al Tayer said. By 2030, Dubai seeks to get 12
percent of its power from coal, to buy another 12 percent from
Abu Dhabi’s planned nuclear facilities and to get 5 percent from
renewable energy. The balance will continue to come from gas,
according to a strategic plan the emirate announced in 2011.  The U.A.E., where both Abu Dhabi and Dubai are developing
renewable-energy plans, should seek to share its knowledge and
experience with other regional states in a Middle East energy
council, Paolo Lembo, the regional representative for the United
Nations Development Program, said at the news conference in
Dubai. While no negotiations have taken place on such a group,
the body could function under the auspices of the UN to promote
renewable energy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  