-- EA Won’t Face Ex-Madden Programmer’s Fraud Claim at Trial
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-07-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/ea-won-t-face-ex-madden-programmer-s-fraud-claim.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  won’t face a
fraud claim brought by a former programmer who wrote code for
the earliest versions of the company’s “Madden NFL” video
game, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer in San Francisco said
yesterday that the only claim in Robin Antonick’s lawsuit
against the video game maker that will proceed to trial is
whether the company broke a 1986 contract by failing to pay him
royalties on works derived from his code.  After considering briefs submitted by both sides and the
entire record of the case, “the court now holds that Antonick
has failed to state a claim for fraud,” Breyer said, adding
that he would explain his reasoning in a later filing.  Breyer also said Antonick is entitled to “only thin”
copyright protection and the jury will be asked whether his work
and the subsequent versions of Madden NFL are virtually
identical when viewed as a whole.  “While we disagree with the dismissal of our fraud claim,
we are pleased that Judge Breyer has cleared the way for Mr.
Antonick to recover millions in royalties that he is owed,”
Stuart Paynter, Antonick’s attorney, said in an e-mail.  John Reseburg, an spokesman for  Redwood City , California-based EA, declined to comment on the ruling.  A jury found June 21 that Antonick proved he didn’t know
before 2005 that EA allegedly used his work on later Madden
games. That allowed the trial to proceed to a second phase over
breach of contract and  damage claims .  Game Profit  Antonick is seeking compensatory damages of about
$16 million and almost $200 million from EA’s pre-1996 game
profit, Paynter said. The trial is scheduled to resume July 9.  EA has sold more than 85 million copies of the software,
resulting in revenue of more than $4 billion. The company, the
second-largest video game publisher, has denied using Antonick’s
code and has said other company programmers developed later
Madden NFL games independent of Antonick’s work.  The case is Antonick v. Electronic Arts Inc., 11-01543,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  ( San
Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  