-- Mead Johnson Falls Most in 8 Months on China Milk Probe
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-07-03T17:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/mead-johnson-falls-most-in-18-months-on-china-milk-probe.html
Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  plunged
the most in eight months after  China  said regulators are
investigating whether the prices of infant formula are too high.  Mead Johnson declined 8.1 percent to $68.85 at the close in
New York, biggest drop since Oct. 25. The Glenview, Illinois-based company fell 16 percent in the past 12 months.  China’s National Development and Reform Commission, the
country’s top economic planning agency, has evidence milk-powder
companies sold products at prices in China that have increased
about 30 percent since 2008, the official People’s Daily
reported yesterday. Safety scares such as a melamine-tainted
milk powder scandal in 2008 that killed at least six infants
have increased Chinese consumers’ distrust of local milk and
driven up purchases of international brands.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , Danone, and  Nestle SA (NESN)  are also part of
the probe, according to the newspaper. Abbott, based in  Abbott
Park ,  Illinois , declined 1.8 percent to $34.25.  Abbott’s diversified business “and its relatively lower
exposure in the Chinese infant formula market help to minimize
risk to the overall company,” Lawrence Biegelsen, an analyst at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in New York, said today in a note to clients.
Abbott’s infant formula sales in China are an estimated $500
million, making up about 3 percent of total company sales,
Biegelsen said.  Cooperating Fully  The NDRC reviewed documents related to product pricing at
Mead Johnson’s China unit and the company is cooperating fully,
the company said in an e-mailed statement. Jonathan Dong, a
Beijing-based spokesman for Nestle, Agnes Berthet-d’Anthonay, a
Paris-based spokeswoman for Danone, and  Scott Stoffel , a
spokesman for Abbott Park, Illinois-based Abbott, said their
companies are aware of the issue and are working with government
authorities.  Nestle and Danone’s infant nutrition units said they would
cut prices.  Nestle’s Wyeth, which Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle
acquired from Pfizer Inc. in April 2012, will lower the prices
of certain infant-formula products 6 percent to 20 percent, and
promised not to raise prices of new products for a year, it said
in a statement. The average reduction will be 11 percent.
Danone’s Dumex unit is preparing a price cut and will disclose
details later, the company said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  The investigation follows China’s attempt to consolidate
its milk-formula industry and create strong domestic brands.
China targets creating 10 large companies in the industry within
two years, each with annual revenue of more than 2 billion  yuan 
($326 million), China National Radio reported last month, citing
Gao Fu, an official at the Ministry of Industry and Information.  Mead Johnson had a 14 percent share of China’s 77.9 billion
yuan milk-formula market last year, according to industry
researcher Euromonitor International.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  