-- EDF Must Boost Nuclear Safety to Operate Plants Beyond 40 Years
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-07-03T16:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/edf-must-boost-nuclear-safety-to-operate-plants-beyond-40-years.html
Electricite de France SA  must improve
safety at its 58 nuclear plants in the nation including ensuring
spent fuel storage and reactor vessels are secure before it can
win the regulator’s approval to operate them beyond 40 years.  “EDF must propose ambitious improvements for the safety of
spent fuel storage” and be prepared to replace equipment on a
large scale,  Autorite de Surete Nucleaire  said in a statement.  EDF, the biggest European power generator, has set aside
billions of euros to improve safety and keep reactors running
for as long as six decades. While some models due to run for 30
years were given approval to operate an extra decade, President
 Francois Hollande  has ordered the halt of EDF’s oldest plant at
Fessenheim in a first step to cutting reliance on atomic power.  While EDF’s program to extend the life of its reactors is
“satisfactory,” it needs to be bolstered in some areas, the
regulator said in a statement on its  website . The demands for
improved safety, beyond measures required after the Fukushima
meltdown in  Japan , seek to bring standards closer to those of
newer nuclear models like the EPR, according to the regulator.  The safety of spent fuel storage at current reactors
doesn’t meet the level of new installations, it said.  Under the regulatory system, the ASN carries out in-depth
inspections of reactors every 10 years to determine whether they
can function for another decade. This method will continue even
as EDF seeks regulatory approval to replace equipment and carry
out other work needed to enable reactors to run for 60 years.  “We are a long way from making a decision” on a possible
extension beyond 40 years, Pierre-Franck Chevet, head of the
ASN, told a parliamentary hearing in Paris in April. “We are at
the very beginning of a process.”  The government is leading a debate on the nation’s energy
mix. Hollande has pledged to diversify generation by adding
renewable energies such as wind and solar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  