-- EE to Roll Out Pay-for-Speed Mobile Plans by September End
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-07-03T11:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/ee-to-roll-out-pay-for-speed-wireless-plans-by-end-of-september.html
EE, the U.K. mobile-phone venture of
 Orange SA (ORA)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , plans to introduce packages
by the end of September offering a faster version of its fourth-generation network for a higher price.  The company is introducing “double-speed” 4G service
averaging as much as 30 megabits per second for wireless data,
comparable to what customers see with fiber broadband at home,
Chief Executive Officer Olaf Swantee said today in  London . He
declined to comment on prices.  EE, the first service-provider in the U.K. to offer the
higher-capacity mobile technology that makes uploading and
downloading videos, pictures and files faster, is ramping up
speeds and offering new promotions and price packages ahead of
similar 4G-network rollouts from  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2 later this year. The double-speed 4G, which
the company said will be the fastest service in Europe, will be
available in 12 U.K. cities starting tomorrow.  “We will continue to have different pricing mechanisms
using network differentiation,” Swantee told reporters. “We
really have proved that we can get an adoption which is faster
than other markets while maintaining a premium.”  The company is offering current and new customers free
access to the faster service until the end of September as long
as they stay on their 4G plan. EE will also start a promotional
offer July 17 until the end of September to cut the price of its
cheapest 4G monthly plan to 26 pounds ($40), a 5-pound discount,
and reduce its most expensive plan, with 20 gigabytes of data,
to 51 pounds from 76 pounds.  A new family plan for 4G will let customers receive a
single bill for as many as five devices in an effort to increase
customer loyalty, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  