-- Emerging Stocks Slump on China as Oil Tops $100 a Barrel
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-07-03T21:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/emerging-stocks-fall-most-in-a-week-on-china-growth-concern-oil.html
Emerging-market stocks declined for a
second day and currencies sank amid concern the global economy
will falter as growth in Chinese services industries slowed and
crude oil surged above $100 a barrel.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 2.1 percent to 912.18,
extending a two-day drop to 3.2 percent. The Shanghai Composite
Index halted a three-day gain as  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. (601398) , the nation’s biggest lender, sank.  Egypt ’s benchmark
bonds fell, pushing the yield to a record, amid political
unrest, while India’s rupee approached an all-time low. The
premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt over U.S.
Treasuries was unchanged, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The slowdown in  China ’s service industries underscores
Premier  Li Keqiang ’s challenge in achieving sustainable growth.
Crude oil surged to a 14-month high, while Portugal’s 10-year
bond yields rose as much as 139 basis points to 8.11 percent.
Egypt’s military ousted President Mohamed Mursi from power,
suspended the constitution and announced an early presidential
election in a bid to resolve the political crisis that has
polarized the nation.  “China’s growth story is really struggling,” Burt White,
chief investment officer who helps oversee $247 billion at  LPL
Financial  in Boston, said in a phone interview. “You’ve got the
mess in Egypt and the concerns in Portugal, and those two things
are putting a real damper to risk taking here.”  Biggest Losses  All  10 groups  in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell, led
by financial and industrial shares. The broad measure has
slumped 14 percent this year, compared with a 7.6 percent gain
in the MSCI World Index. The developing-nation gauge  trades  at
9.5 times projected earnings, lower than the MSCI World’s
valuation of 13.2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund slid 0.9 percent to $37.58. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
rose 2 percent to 30.77.  The Ibovespa fell a fourth day as the Brazilian real sank
to a four-year low, fueling concern that inflation will keep
accelerating and further erode the expansion in Latin America’s
biggest economy. OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA,
billionaire  Eike Batista ’s oil company, extended its five-day
plunge to 58 percent.  Russian equities sank for the first time in four days as a
report showing a contraction in services industries stoked
concern the country’s recovery will founder. OAO Magnit,
Russia’s biggest food retailer, dropped 3.6 percent, while OAO
Sberbank, the nation’s largest lender, lost 1.7 percent.  Turkey, Poland  The  Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index (XU100)  sank
3.6 percent in the biggest decline among major emerging-market
gauges as banks retreated. Benchmark gauges is the  Czech
Republic , Poland and Hungary dropped at least 0.7 percent.  The Shanghai Composite has tumbled 18 percent from its
recent peak on Feb. 6. ICBC lost 2 percent, while  Sany Heavy
Industry Co. (600031) , the largest machinery maker, slid to the lowest
level in three years as oil surged. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index retreated 3.3 percent.  The rupee weakened to within 0.9 percent of its all-time
low on concern overseas investors will pull more money from
local assets, leaving the currency vulnerable to a record
current-account deficit.  The extra yield for emerging-market debt over U.S.
Treasuries was unchanged at 329 basis points, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  