-- Tencent Will Extend Payment System to Wireless Platforms
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-03T10:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/tencent-to-extend-payment-system-to-wireless-platforms-lau-says.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  China ’s
largest Internet company, will introduce a payment system to
wireless platforms as it tries to commercialize apps including
its WeChat instant messaging service to drive profit growth.  The company is seeking to tap customers who access its
services on smartphones and tablet computers, Tencent President
Martin Lau said at a conference in Beijing today. WeChat, with
more than 300 million users, has over 70 million registered
accounts outside mainland China, he said.  Tencent is seeking ways to make money from its apps to
compete with Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s largest e-commerce company that is expanding its own mobile development
and acquiring stakes in rivals. Billionaire Chairman Ma Huateng
is counting on WeChat, known as Weixin in China, to bolster
earnings growth as consumers spend more time on mobile devices.  “Tencent plans to extend its payment system to wireless
platforms in the future,” said Lau. “Some apps don’t charge
users, but they have large traffic, we can commercialize them
through ads.”  The Internet company has been testing a payment system
internally on WeChat, Jerry Huang, a director of investor
relations, said last month. Tencent is also developing a
pipeline of online games, Lau said on an earnings call in May.  WeChat’s overseas users include customers in  Thailand ,
 India ,  Indonesia  and  Malaysia , Lau said today. The company plans
to share 3 billion yuan ($489 million) from its open platform
with developers this year as an incentive, he said.  WeChat Growth  China’s mobile users are  projected to pay  7.9 billion yuan
for games this year, according to Internet consulting group
iResearch.  “The payment system is a step for helping gaming to take
off on WeChat,” said Eric Qiu, an analyst at Guosen Securities
Co. in Hong Kong. “Mobile gaming has proved to be commercially
successful and holds great potential.”  WeChat may have at least 400 million users by the end of
this year, Alicia Yap, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Hong Kong,
wrote in a March 13 report. If WeChat provides games and related
services, it could produce annual revenue of as much as 2.16
billion  yuan , Yap wrote.  The  stock  fell 1 percent to HK$298.80 at the close of Hong
Kong trading, paring this year’s gain to 20 percent. The
benchmark Hang Seng Index has dropped 11 percent in 2013.  Net income  at Tencent rose 37 percent to 4.04 billion yuan
in the three months ended March, helped by higher advertising
and e-commerce revenue.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  