-- Merkel Sees Long Road to End Euro Job Crisis as Leaders Meet
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-07-03T18:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/merkel-hosts-eu-jobs-summit-in-bid-to-blunt-austerity-fatigue.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel urged
European countries to boost youth employment without depending
on aid money after she met fellow leaders for talks on easing
the impact of German-led austerity on the euro area.  “We consciously didn’t talk about the money at our
disposal, but about the measures we can carry out so more young
people have employment opportunities,” Merkel told reporters in
Berlin after hosting leaders including French President Francois Hollande, Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta and Portugal’s
 Pedro Passos Coelho . “We have to say clearly that this problem
can’t be solved from one day to the next.”  Facing a surge in Portuguese borrowing costs and pressure
from euro-area countries to ease record joblessness, Merkel
cited 8 billion euros ($10.4 billion) in aid from the European
Union’s 2014-2020 budget. The European Investment Bank is
offering 18 billion euros in loans for 2013 to 2015, German
Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen said.  Merkel, who is seeking a third term in German elections on
Sept. 22, is blamed across southern Europe for record-high youth
unemployment as a result of budget cuts and economic overhauls
agreed to by countries such as  Greece  and Portugal in return for
sovereign rescues in the euro-area debt crisis.  Her goal is to “show that  Germany  isn’t a cold-hearted
hegemon that demands austerity and doesn’t care about the
jobless,”  Jan Techau , head of the Brussels office of the
Carnegie Endowment, said by phone. “Youth unemployment can’t be
fought by state-created jobs programs. It will be fought by
economic dynamism and revamping European economies, which isn’t
really happening in many euro nations.”  Unemployment Rises  Unemployment among people younger than 25 in the euro area
rose to 23.9 percent in May, compared with 23 percent a year
earlier, amid an  18-month recession  that is the region’s
longest, according to European Union data released yesterday.
Germany had the lowest rate, 7.6 percent, while Greece had the
highest, 59.2 percent, follow by Spain at 56.5 percent and
Portugal with 42.1 percent.  Differences in tone between Europe’s northern and southern
tiers flared at the news conference at the chancellery in
Berlin, the seat of the leader of Europe’s biggest economy.  Policy makers have a duty “to give hope to our young
people,” Hollande said. “This is a national obligation and it
is also a European obligation.”  Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite countered that
“we can’t make an illusion for some governments to have an
excuse not to do anything at home, thinking that Europe will
help.”  ‘No Europe’  “There is no Europe,” she said. “There are only member
states who are responsible for their own employment policies. So
Europe can help, together with us, but not solve everything.”  Aid commitments cited after today’s meeting didn’t involve
new funding. EU leaders agreed at a summit in June to speed up
the payout of 6 billion euros in the EU’s 2014-2020 budget to
combat youth unemployment and to add unused budget money to the
program, an amount EU President Herman Van Rompuy estimated at a
further 2 billion euros. At the same time, Merkel resisted
pressure by southern Europeans such as Letta to extend project
lending by the EIB.  The lender has earmarked 6 billion euros in credits
annually for 2013 and the next two years, Christof Roche, a
spokesman for the bank, said in a phone interview from Brussels.
The first installment will be available in August, von der Leyen
said.  Mobilize Money  “These are not new funds but rather come from money
already in place,” Roche said. The aid, which will be used to
fund jobs in small- and medium-sized companies and for skills
training, may mobilize as much as 30 billion euros in additional
monies from private and public third parties, he said.  Rising borrowing costs in Portugal and speculation that
 Greece (GDBR10)  may need a second debt writedown underscore the risk of a
resurgence of the crisis that was damped by the European Central
Bank’s offer of unlimited bond-buying last September.  Portugal’s bonds slumped, pushing 10-year yields above 8
percent for the first time since November after two Cabinet
members, including Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar, quit. Spanish
and Italian bonds dropped for a second day.  Merkel rejected speculation that Greece would need another
writedown to keep its international bailout on track,
Sueddeutsche Zeitung quoted her as saying in an interview. “I
don’t see that” happening, she said, according to the German
newspaper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  