-- EU Carbon May Extend Gains as Sales Fall Next Month, Hudak Says
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-07-03T15:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/eu-carbon-may-extend-gains-as-sales-fall-next-month-hudak-says.html
European Union carbon may extend
today’s advance in the coming weeks as auction volumes drop and
after European lawmakers today approved measures to trim a glut,
according to Milan Hudak, an analyst at Virtuse Energy sro.  The bloc’s parliament passed a proposal that would enable
the temporary delay of the sale of 900 million permits in the
years through 2020, a process known as backloading. Emissions
exchanges are scheduled to next month sell half the average
weekly volume of allowances at auction.  The assembly’s decision triggered a surge in carbon prices,
as the December futures contract reversed an earlier loss of 24
percent to advance as much as 13 percent on  London ’s ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. Higher carbon prices increase the cost of
generating power with fossil fuels and encourage investment in
less-polluting sources of energy such as wind farms and solar
parks.  “This is a good signal for the market and the EU
emissions-trading system, that there is political will in the
parliament,” Prague-based Hudak said by e-mail. “Potentially
we can see some bullish impact from lower volumes of auctions in
August.”  Lawmakers rejected a proposal that would force the market
regulator to bring permits back into the market as soon as the
full amount had been withheld. They also blocked a plan to set
aside some of the revenue from the eventual sale of those
withheld permits into a special fund to promote low-carbon
technology.  Potential Delay  “The defeat of the proposal to set aside some revenue from
the sale of withheld permits was important, as it would have
been a problem with some EU member states and could have
potentially delayed the process,” Hudak said. “The rejection
of the immediate return of permits means the bullish price
impact of the backloading will be longer-lasting.”  EU permits for December were up 8.9 percent at 4.67 euros a
ton on ICE at 3:59 p.m. London time. Prices may rise to 4.90
euros to 5 euros a ton in the coming weeks, Hudak said.  “The level around 4.90 euros to 5 euros is a kind of
psychological level for the market, since prices were at that
level when Parliament first rejected the backloading proposal”
on April 16, Hudak said.  The European Union,  Germany  and the U.K. have sold an
average 15.9 million tons a week this year in auctions on ICE
Futures Europe and the  European Energy Exchange . This volume
will drop to 7.5 million tons a week next month, exchange data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  