-- EU to Further Ease Deficit Constraints as Recession Bites
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-07-03T09:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/eu-to-further-ease-deficit-constraints-as-recession-bites.html
The European Commission further eased
euro-zone deficit constraints, trying to steer the economy out
of recession and rising unemployment.  Commission President  Jose Barroso  said some investments in
transport, energy and other types of infrastructure won’t be
counted as deficit spending in 2013 and 2014, giving in to
longstanding demands from Italy in particular.  The goal is to promote “non-recurrent public investment
programs with a proven impact on the sustainability of public
finances,” Barroso told the European Parliament in Strasbourg,
 France  today.  Southern Europe has been hardest hit by the euro zone’s
nonstop  contraction  since the fourth quarter of 2011, with
rising global  interest rates  further darkening the economic
prospects for  Portugal , Spain, Italy and Greece.  “We did it!” Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta said in
a Twitter post that welcomed the concession. He hailed the offer
of “more flexibility in coming budgets for countries like  Italy 
with public finances in order.”  The concession only applies to countries with deficits
below the euro-zone limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product. Italy will be the principal beneficiary because it is
the only southern European country with a deficit below 3
percent of GDP.  The commission, which oversees euro fiscal rules, had eased
the deficit-cut pressure over the past year by focusing on
“structural” budget balances that factor out the recession’s
impact on tax receipts and spending.  Barroso went further today, announcing possible “temporary
deviations” from the structural targets to allow for
investments that are co-financed by the European budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  