-- European Lawmakers Criticize Hungarian Government
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-07-03T11:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/european-lawmakers-criticize-hungarian-government.html
The European Parliament criticized
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s consolidation of power,
saying he is eroding the rule of law.  The European Union’s legislature approved a resolution
based a report compiled by Portuguese lawmaker Rui Tavares in a
370 to 249 vote, with 82 abstentions, the parliament said in an
e-mailed statement today. It urges Hungary to change disputed
laws “as swiftly as possible” to comply with the 28-nation
bloc’s regulations. Orban rejected the resolution, saying it
unfairly singles out Hungary and is based on false premises.  Orban, who faces elections next year, has used a two-thirds
legislative majority his party won in 2010 to push through a new
constitution over opposition protests, ousted the chief justice
of the  Supreme Court  and set up a media regulator led by ruling-party appointees. The changes have drawn criticism from the EU,
the U.S. and the  United Nations .  “The systemic and general trend of repeatedly modifying
the constitutional and legal framework in very short time
frames, and the content of such modifications, are incompatible
with” values enshrined in EU treaties, according to the
resolution. “Unless corrected in a timely and adequate manner,
this trend will result in a clear risk of a serious breach of
the values referred to” in the treaty.  The resolution opens the way to a process in which one of
the possible outcomes is the suspension of Hungary’s voting
rights, a measure never before deployed by the EU, unless the
government addresses concerns. It also calls for the
establishment of a “new mechanism” to ensure compliance by all
 member states  with EU common values and which should be entitled
to regularly monitor member states.  Fourth Amendment  Hungarian lawmakers in March passed a  fourth amendment  to
the new constitution, curtailing judicial authority, limiting
campaign ads in private media, restricting the definition of a
family to marriage and allowing the criminalization of homeless
people who live on the streets. That vote bypassed an earlier
Constitutional Court veto.  Orban was defiant during the resolution’s debate, defending
his Cabinet’s right to act with its unprecedented legitimacy and
said the method employed to criticize Hungary threatens the way
the EU operates.  “The report is deeply unjust to Hungary and the Hungarian
nation, openly employs double standards, refuses to acknowledge,
belittles and downgrades the enormous effort with which
Hungarians have renewed their country,” Orban told EU Lawmakers
in Strasbourg yesterday. Setting up a new monitoring
institution, which the resolution urges, breaches EU treaties
and threatens  Europe ’s future, he said.  ‘Seriously Undermines’  The resolution lists an array of disputed issues in
Hungary, including the erosion of democratic checks and
balances, media legislation, the independence of the judiciary
and electoral reform.  The fourth constitutional amendment “seriously undermines
the possibilities of constitutional review in Hungary and
endangers the constitutional system of checks and balances,”
the Venice Commission, an independent advisory body on
constitutional matters, said last month.  “The Venice Commission reinforced our concerns that the
fourth amendment may be incompatible with EU rules,” European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  said in Strasbourg yesterday.  Faced with international criticism since it swept to power
in 2010, the Hungarian government has compromised on some
issues, while portraying critics as bullies who attack the
nation at the bidding of its domestic political opponents and of
global companies whose interests had been hurt by its policies
such as extraordinary industry taxes.  No ‘Colony’  In October, Orban said at a rally on the anniversary of
Hungary’s 1956 anti-Soviet uprising that Hungarians “won’t
accept others telling us what we can and can’t do in our
country.” In January 2012, a crowd of what the government
estimated was 400,000 people, marched to support the Cabinet in
its battle with the EU behind the banner “We won’t become a
colony.”  Hungary  last month offered to modify its new constitution
for a fifth time to address some of the EU’s concerns, including
revoking the right of the head of the judiciary to reassign
cases and replace a passage that would trigger automatic
extraordinary levies in case a court fines the state. The
government is sticking to its election advertisement ban in
private media, which was also criticized.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  