-- Europe Banks Fall as Portugal Stokes Debt Crisis Concern
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-07-03T09:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/europe-banks-fall-as-portugal-stokes-debt-crisis-concern.html
European financial shares slumped on
concern that  Portugal ’s political turmoil will reignite the
sovereign debt crisis and after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded
several of the region’s banks.  The  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index 
slid as much as 3.1 percent to 87.09 and was down 2.4 percent at
11:19 a.m. in Frankfurt. Portuguese and Spanish lenders led the
decline with Banco Comercial Portugues SA, the country’s second-biggest listed bank, falling 15 percent to 7.9 cents and Banco
Espirito Santo SA losing 12 percent.  Political instability in Portugal intensified yesterday
with the resignation of a second government minister, signaling
that the ruling coalition will struggle to implement further
budget cuts as its bailout program enters the final 12 months.
That sent the country’s 10-year bond yield to 8 percent for the
first time since November.  Selling is focused on banks that would face higher
financing costs or take losses on Portuguese assets, said  Ronny Rehn , an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in  London .  “Bond yields are going wider on this uncertainty and
there’s a jitter in funding markets,” Rehn said by telephone.
“There’s a sense that behind closed doors, people are wondering
if  Greece  and other countries are sustainable.”  Banks in  Europe  also fell after Standard & Poor’s
downgraded Deutsche Bank AG,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG. (CSGN)  New banking regulations and “uncertain market
conditions” threatened their business, S&P said yesterday.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-biggest bank, fell 6.7
percent to 5.73 euros. The Frankfurt-based company had 2.9
billion euros ($3.75 billion) of exposure to Portuguese debt and
12.2 billion euros to  Spain  as of the end of March.  Rehn said KBW reduced its recommendation on European banks
to hold from buy two days ago on concern about the sovereign
debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  