-- Euro Drops Versus Yen on Bets ECB to Hold Policy
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-07-04T21:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/euro-near-1-month-low-before-ecb-meets-as-portuguese-bonds-drop.html
The euro fell to a five-week low
against the dollar after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  made an unprecedented pledge to keep interest rates low
for an extended period.  The 17-nation currency dropped the most in almost three
weeks versus the yen as Draghi said the ECB’s monetary policy
stance will “remain accommodative” for as long as needed to
spur growth. The pound slumped the most in almost two years
against the dollar after the  Bank of England  said rising bond
yields around the world will weigh on the nation’s economic
outlook. The Dollar Index rose a four-week high before the Labor
Department releases its monthly job report tomorrow.  “For a central bank that has been reluctant to offer any
kind of pre-committal, today’s characterization of forward
guidance is about as much as we can expect from the ECB for
now,” said  Daragh Maher , a London-based currency strategist at
HSBC Holdings Plc. “The euro is justifiably lower on this bias
to ease.”  The euro weakened 0.7 percent to $1.2914 at 5 p.m. in  New
York  after sliding to $1.2883, the lowest level since May 29.
The shared currency dropped 0.6 percent to 129.18 yen. The yen
added 0.1 percent to 100.04 per dollar.  ‘Extended Period’  “The Governing Council expects the key ECB interest rates
to remain at present or lower levels for an extended period,”
Draghi said at a press conference in  Frankfurt  following the
central bank’s monthly policy meeting. “Our monetary policy
stance will remain accommodative for as long as necessary.”  The ECB took the “unprecedented step” to give forward
guidance in a more explicit way than it did in the past, he told
reporters. The central bank kept its  benchmark interest rate  at
a record-low 0.5 percent as forecast by all except one of 62
economists in a  Bloomberg News survey .  “The key statement from Draghi was that they would remain
accommodative,” said Kathleen Brooks, research director in
 London  at Forex.com, a unit of online currency-trading company
 Gain Capital Holdings Inc. (GCAP)  “He’s stressed that the risks to
growth remain on the downside. It opens the way now for a move
back to $1.28.”  The euro has still gained 4.3 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar gained 6.8 percent, the
best performer, and the yen tumbled 8.9 percent.  U.S. financial markets are closed today for the
Independence Day holiday.  Pound Slides  The pound fell at least 0.3 percent against all its 16
major counterparts after the Bank of England said increases in
market rates aren’t justified and may weigh on growth, prompting
speculation it will add stimulus.  The U.K. Monetary Policy Committee kept its quantitative-easing target at 375 billion pounds ($565 billion) today and the
benchmark  interest rate  at 0.5 percent.  “The statement is probably a little bit more dovish than
the market was expecting, pushing back on the rise in longer-term interest rates and suggesting that monetary policy will
remain accommodative for some considerable time,” said  Paul Robson , a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London. “This leaves sterling vulnerable against
the dollar and the euro.”  The pound slid 1.4 percent to $1.5072, after posting the
biggest decline since Sept. 21, 2011. The U.K. currency dropped
0.6 percent to 85.67 pence per euro.  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index rose as economists predicted the  U.S.
economy  continued to add jobs in June.  American employers added 165,000 workers last month, after
hiring 175,000 in May, according to the median forecast of 88
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The  unemployment rate 
declined to 7.5 percent from 7.6 percent, a separate survey
showed.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to monitor the U.S. currency against those of six major trading
partners, climbed 0.6 percent to 83.755 after rising to 83.911,
the highest level since May 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  