-- Eutelsat to SES Said to Proceed in Bidding for Optus
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-07-03T10:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/eutelsat-to-ses-said-to-proceed-to-optus-satellite-final-bidding.html
(Corrects to show Inmarsat is not involved in bidding.)  Eutelsat SA (ETL)  and SES SA are among
companies that proceeded to a final round of bidding for
 Singapore Telecommunications Ltd.’s (ST)  Australian satellite unit,
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Private equity firms  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  dropped
out of bidding for Optus Satellite, the people said, asking not
to be identified as the information is private. SingTel is
seeking more than A$2 billion ($1.8 billion) for the business,
they said.  Also advancing in the bidding is a group made up of TPG
Capital,  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and Malaysia’s Measat Global Bhd.,
the people said. Final offers are due next month and the short-listed bidders have been given access to more detailed financial
information on the unit, one person said.  The sale of Optus Satellite would be the largest
telecommunications deal in Australia in more than a decade, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. With five spacecraft in orbit, the
company provides  television , radio, phone, Internet data and
military signals to Australia,  New Zealand  and the Antarctic.  London-based  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT) , the largest provider of
satellite services to the maritime industry, isn’t involved in
bidding for Optus Satellite, spokesman Chris Mclaughlin said in
an interview. The company had earlier studied the business, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  Michele Batchelor, a spokeswoman for SingTel, declined to
comment on the sale process. Representatives for the bidders
declined to comment or weren’t immediately available.  Seeking Growth  SingTel, as Southeast Asia’s biggest phone company is
known, acquired the business as part of the $9.69 billion
takeover of Optus, Australia’s second-largest phone company, in
2001. It said in March that it was considering options for the
unit.  SingTel, facing  slowing sales  in Australia and Singapore,
is seeking new sources of growth. Divesting Optus Satellite,
which had revenue of A$319 million in the year ended March 2012,
would help finance the S$2 billion ($1.6 billion) of
acquisitions that SingTel is planning. The company, which is
being advised by Credit Suisse Group AG and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
hasn’t reported separate earnings figures for Optus Satellite
since the 2001 takeover of Optus.  TPG agreed in March to pay about A$880 million for Inghams
Enterprises Pty Ltd., Australia’s largest poultry producer,
after outbidding other buyout firms, people familiar with the
matter said at the time. The Forth Worth, Texas-based firm
teamed up with Carlyle in 2010 to buy Australian hospital
operator Healthscope Ltd. for A$2.7 billion, including debt.  Sixth Satellite  Blackstone, based in New York, in 2011 agreed to pay $9.4
billion for the U.S. shopping centers of Australia’s  Centro
Properties Group . That same year, it struck an A$208 million
deal for Valad Property Group, the owner of Australian office
buildings and industrial properties.  SES (SESG) , the world’s largest publicly traded satellite
operator, in May forecast full-year revenue growth of 6.5
percent to 7.5 percent. Asia-Pacific is the Luxembourg-based
company’s second-fastest growing region in terms of sales, it
said in January. Paris-based Eutelsat, which will outline its
three-year strategic plan on July 30, said in May it was looking
for acquisitions.  Optus Satellite broadcasts signals to more than two million
Australian households and companies and will launch a sixth
satellite this year, according to SingTel. Its customers include
state-owned Australian Broadcasting Corp., the Foxtel joint
venture between  Telstra Corp. (TLS)  and  News Corp ., and Australia’s
Department of Defence.  Typical operating margins at satellite telecommunications
companies are 80 percent of sales, and the carriers are
typically valued at six times to eight times earnings,  Sachin Gupta , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Singapore, said in
March. That would put a price tag of as much as A$2.04 billion
on the Optus business based on its sales, he estimated in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  