-- Ex-Olympus Chairman Gets Suspended Sentence for Fraud
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-07-03T06:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/ex-olympus-chairman-gets-suspended-sentence-for-accounting-fraud.html
Former  Olympus Corp. (7733)  Chairman
Tsuyoshi Kikukawa received a suspended sentence for his role in
a $1.7 billion accounting fraud that caused the Japanese camera
maker’s market value to plunge 80 percent.  Olympus itself, also the world’s largest maker of
endoscopes, was ordered to pay 700 million yen ($7 million) in
fines by Tokyo District Judge Hiroaki Saito today. Former
Olympus Executive Vice President Hisashi Mori and Hideo Yamada,
a former auditing officer, also got suspended sentences.  Judge Saito’s decision comes almost two years after
revelations that the company had falsified financial reports to
conceal losses on investments. The sentences reflect the
defendants’ claims that former Olympus presidents Masatoshi Kishimoto and Toshiro Shimoyama made the decision to hide
losses, while he inherited the aftermath.  “Kikukawa and Yamada succeeded in a negative legacy and
weren’t involved in the decision-making process to hide
losses,” Saito said in court today. “They were distressed and
didn’t benefit personally from hiding losses. Mori followed
their orders.”  The camera maker still faces lawsuits by investors
including State Street Bank and Trust & Co. and Government of
 Singapore  Investment Corporation Pte Ltd. in a joint complaint
seeking 19.1 billion yen in damages.  Suspended Years  Kikukawa and Yamada were given three years of jail time
suspended for five years, while Mori got two and a half years
jail time suspended for four years. Kishimoto and Shimoyama
haven’t been charged because the statute of limitations has
expired, Kyodo News reported on April 23.  Prosecutors had asked for a five-year jail term for
Kikukawa and a 1 billion yen fine for Tokyo-based Olympus, Kyodo
News reported on March 26. Lawyers for the defendants said
jailing them would be unfair because other executives involved
weren’t charged, the news service reported.  The fraud, “destroyed the image of Japanese companies
internationally,” Kikukawa told the court in September when
pleading guilty along with the other executives.  Olympus fell 0.9 percent to 3,170 yen at the close in Tokyo
trading. The  shares  have more than doubled in the past 12
months, compared with a 55 percent jump in the benchmark Nikkei
225 Stock Average.  Whistleblower Woodford  Kikukawa resigned in October 2011, weeks after the board
fired former President Michael Woodford, who uncovered the
accounting discrepancies and went public with them after the
Olympus board declined to take action. The company and three
former executives eventually admitted using fraudulent takeover
deals to hide losses for 13 years starting in the 1990s.  Olympus restated five years of earnings results to account
for the bookkeeping fraud, wiping $1.3 billion off its balance
sheet and prompting speculation the company would seek a capital
infusion. Reports of the attempts to hide losses in mid-October
2011 triggered an 82 percent drop in the company’s shares
between Oct. 13 and Nov. 11, 2011.  The company said in July last year it would pay 191.8
million yen in fines to  Japan ’s financial regulators, while the
camera maker itself has sued 19 former executives for damages
related to the cover up of losses.  Founded in 1919 as a microscope and thermometer maker,
Olympus produced its first camera in 1936 and a predecessor to
the modern-day endoscope in 1950, according to its website. The
company controls 75 percent of the global market for endoscopes,
instruments doctors use to peer inside the body to help diagnose
disease.  A former Commerzbank AG and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  banker
charged with aiding the accounting fraud was granted bail in
January by a federal judge in New York.  Chan Ming Fon, a Taiwan citizen living in Singapore, was
indicted Jan. 17 and charged with one count of conspiracy to
commit wire fraud. He faces as many as 20 years in prison on the
conspiracy charge.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  