-- Texas Lawmakers Start Over on Abortion After Filibuster
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-03T05:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/texas-lawmakers-start-over-on-abortion-after-filibuster.html
Texas lawmakers took up abortion
limits again yesterday, hearing hours of testimony before voting
to send a measure that Democrats blocked last week back to the
state House of Representatives for renewed consideration.  The State Affairs committee voted 8-3 with two abstentions
to move the measure to the House floor as soon as next week
after throngs of onlookers for and against the bill rallied in
the Statehouse around the chamber, in halls and corridors and on
the grounds outside.  Senate debate on the limits last week drew national
attention, including a comment from President  Barack Obama , to
Wendy Davis, a Fort Worth Democrat. Davis tried to block the
bill with 13 hours of nonstop talk, only to be cut off by
parliamentary moves. Still, with a raucous crowd of spectators
cheering them on, Democrats prevented a vote before time ran out
in the Republican-led chamber. That led to a special session so
lawmakers could try again, over objections from opponents.  “You can disagree with abortion -- I’m not asking you to
change your personal or moral stance -- you can think that it’s
wrong and still recognize that this bill is not the way to fix
the problem,” said Kate Caldwell of Austin. She said lawmakers
should make reproductive health care more widely available
instead of putting more limits on it.  At the hearing last night, opponents of the bill sporting
orange clothing and supporters wearing blue spoke out on the
measure, which would ban the procedure after 20 weeks of
pregnancy and make Texas the most-populous state to require
abortion clinics to meet hospital-like standards for ambulatory-surgery providers.  Closure Threat  Critics say the bill would force most of the state’s 44
abortion providers, and maybe all of them, to close by making it
too expensive or logistically impossible to comply. Only about
10 percent meet the proposed standards now. A requirement that
clinic doctors have admitting privileges at a hospital within 30
miles (50 kilometers) may be a challenge for them all.  Supporters, including Republican Governor  Rick Perry , say
the changes are needed to ensure women get proper health care
and that the lives of the unborn are protected.  Representative Byron Cook, a Corsicana Republican who leads
the committee, limited testimony on the measure after more than
3,200 people signed up to testify. Cook set a time limit of
about three minutes for citizens speaking on their own behalf,
and planned a midnight vote by the panel in Austin, the capital.
Thousands who signed up weren’t given a chance to speak.  Capitol Transformed  Activists on both sides of the issue began gathering hours
before the hearing began, transforming the halls and rooms in
the Capitol into a sea of orange and blue. Opponents shirts were
emblazoned with slogans such as “Stand with  Texas  Women,”
while those in favor for the bill read: “Let God plan
parenthood” and “I’m a person,” beneath the image of a fetus.  “No vagina, no voice!” chanted hundreds of demonstrators
opposed to the bill and in protest of the legislative procedures
Republicans used to shepherd it toward passage. They held up
coat-hangers as a symbol of what some women used to self-abort
before the procedure was made legal by the U.S. Supreme Court.  Kathy Carr, a 42-year-old mother of five from Austin, said
she has been coming regularly to the Capitol to voice her
support for  women’s rights . Opposite her, Derek Rich, 47, waited
in line for hours with fellow members of  San Antonio ’s
Cornerstone Church, seeking to attend the hearing.  “I came to support my wife who was forced to have an
abortion when she was 18,” said Rich, a wildlife biologist.
“We need stricter laws so we can better protect life.”  Prayer, Song  As witnesses lined up to testify, abortion foes bowed in
prayer, raised their hands and sang “Jesus loves the little
children” and “The heartbeat of heaven is here.” An older
woman thumbed a rosary. On her back, a sign read, “The American
Auschwitz is  Planned Parenthood . Death camp for babies.”  Spectators watched on television monitors from multiple
overflow rooms as the hearing began at 3:30 p.m. local time.  Charles Lingerfelt, a retired educator from  Dallas , told
the panel that abortion was “wretched” and compared the
procedure to a home burglary. He said it’s an “invasion of the
first home of the baby who lives in the womb of the mother.”  Jane Norwood, a social worker from Austin, urged lawmakers
to reject the measure, calling it government intrusion into
private life.  Passage of the bill would erode women’s health and lead to
more illegal, unsafe and unsupervised abortions, said Bradley
Price, an obstetrician for 40 years. He said the bill wasn’t
“based on sound science” and would be “extremely intrusive
into the practice of medicine.”  Catch-22 Provision  Requiring abortion-clinic doctors to have admitting
privileges at a nearby hospital is a Catch-22, according to
Stacy Wilson of the Texas Hospital Association. That standing is
granted based on services a physician offers in a hospital, yet
none in Texas provide elective abortions, she said. That alone
could force all the state’s clinics to close, she said.  The failure of the measure last week in the Senate led
Perry to call a second 30-day special session of the
legislature, to give lawmakers another chance. It began July 1.
Republicans dominate both the House and Senate, leaving
opponents of the bill little other than procedural strategies,
such as the filibuster by Davis, to block it.  If passed, the measure would take effect 91 days after the
end of the session, said Representative Jodie Laubenberg, a
Murphy Republican and the bill’s House sponsor. Clinics would
have a year to comply with the new rules or face closure, she
said. As a result, women in Texas may have to travel hundreds of
miles to obtain an abortion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in Austin at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net 
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  