-- Exco to Buy Chesapeake Oil and Gas Assets for $1 Billion
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-07-03T12:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/exco-to-buy-chesapeake-oil-and-gas-assets-for-1-billion.html
Exco Resources Inc. (XCO) , the Dallas-based
energy producer whose market value has dropped by more than half
since 2010, agreed to buy  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  assets in the
Eagle Ford and Haynesville shale formations for about $1
billion.  Exco is adding the equivalent of 6,100 barrels of oil
production a day in the Eagle Ford and 114 million cubic feet of
natural gas in the Haynesville, the company said in a statement
today. The transaction, expected to close this month, includes
55,000 net acres in Texas and 9,600 net acres in  Louisiana , Exco
said.  “These acquisitions are consistent with our strategy of
targeting opportunities in both existing core areas and new
plays,” Exco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Douglas H.
Miller said in the statement. Exco’s proved reserves  declined  24
percent last year and its stock fell 35 percent.  Production in the Eagle Ford rose 54 percent in April from
the same month a year earlier, the  Texas  Railroad Commission
reported June 20. Exco has been seeking acquisitions this year
as gas prices in New York have rebounded from a 10-year low in
April 2012.  “Our emphasis is going to be on acquisitions,” Miller
said on a May 1 conference call with analysts. “Our defensive
days are over.”  The transaction brings Chesapeake’s year-to-date asset
sales to about $3.6 billion, which enables the Oklahoma City-based company to fully fund its  capital spending  for 2013.
Chesapeake has been selling assets to fund operations and reduce
debt piled up under former Chairman and CEO Aubrey McClendon.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  has has a right to buy half of the Haynesville
properties, Exco said. JPMorgan Chase & Co. has committed to
replace an existing credit agreement and include a bridge loan
tranche to fund the Eagle Ford purchase. KKR & Co. funds have
agreed to pay for about half, or $133 million, of the
development costs in certain parts of the Eagle Ford, Exco said.  Jefferies Group LLC advised Chesapeake on the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  