-- Mexican Beer Ruling Said Imminent as SABMiller Seeks Role
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-07-04T10:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/mexican-beer-ruling-said-imminent-as-sabmiller-seeks-a-toehold.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB)  passed on buying almost
half the Mexican beer market in 2010 when Heineken NV struck a
5.3 billion-euro ($6.9 billion) deal to acquire Fomento
Economico Mexicano SAB’s brewing unit.  So when global industry leader Anheuser-Busch InBev NV
claimed most of the rest by paying $20.1 billion for full
control of Corona maker Grupo Modelo SAB, SABMiller was left
needing help from regulators to gain more than a toehold in the
world’s sixth-largest brewing space.  With nothing left to buy in the country, the London-based
company is waiting for an imminent antitrust decision that may
free up a small amount of market share. At SABMiller’s behest,
 Mexico ’s competition authority has been examining whether
exclusive contracts that Heineken and AB InBev have with shops
and restaurants prevent others selling in outlets that Barclays
Plc analysts estimate represent 85 percent of market volume.  “It’s an opportunity for SABMiller to grow, but a long-term one,” said  Melissa Earlam , an analyst at UBS AG in  London .
“It’s very hard to second-guess the quantity of change the
regulators could impose.”  The Federal Competition Commission, which delayed a
decision June 3, has made a ruling and may notify those involved
as early as this week, according to three people with direct
knowledge of the matter. If SABMiller is successful with its
second official complaint that the current status quo is anti-competitive, it could loosen AB InBev and Heineken’s control
over a market that Banco Santander SA values at $6.6 billion.
The brewer’s initial complaint was rejected in 2007.  Developing Countries  SABMiller  rose  as much as 2 percent to 3,180 pence and was
trading up 1.8 percent as of 11:01 a.m. in London.  AB InBev (ABI) 
 gained  0.8 percent to 67.40 euros in Brussels, and Heineken
 increased  1.5 percent to 50.39 euros in Amsterdam.  Mexico is a gap in SABMiller’s coverage of  emerging
markets , which account for about two-thirds of earnings. That’s
more than either Heineken or AB InBev. Weakening consumption in
 Europe  and increased competition from craft brewers in the U.S.
means that  developing countries  are playing an increasingly
important part in the strategy of global brewers.  With about 1 million people reaching drinking age per year,
Mexico is a prime target for brewing investment. The country’s
economy is set to grow 2.9 percent this year and 4 percent in
2014, compared with the U.S.’s 1.9 percent and 2.7 percent,
according to forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Market Share  Barclays estimates that AB InBev’s Modelo has 55 percent
and Heineken 43 percent of Mexican beer volumes, compared with
SABMiller’s 1 percent. Their domination is down to the brewers’
intertwined connections with retailers.  A possible outcome of the Mexican review is that Heineken
loses exclusive distribution through the Oxxo convenience chain
owned by Fomento Economico Mexicano, or Femsa, the company from
which it bought its beer business in the country. Modelo may
also be ordered to sell different brands at its stores, while
exclusive contracts with so-called mom-and-pop convenience
shops, a backbone of Mexican beer sales, could be rejigged, said
 Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London.  SABMiller won’t comment until after it receives a final
decision from Mexico’s competition commission, spokesman Richard Farnsworth said. Marcela Cristo, a spokeswoman for Modelo,
declined to comment, as did Heineken spokesman Hugo Loya.  Whatever the outcome, SABMiller may still struggle to make
inroads against rivals with such a stranglehold on the market.  Any regulatory change “is not going to fundamentally
change the landscape,” said Stirling. He estimates that the
maker of Peroni is unlikely to do better than gain “a couple of
market-share points.”  Retailer Ties  While Heineken has exclusive distribution rights in Oxxo
stores, the largest convenience-store chain in  Latin America ,
Modelo controls its own chains, Modelorama and Extra. Smaller
stores also turn to the biggest brewers for the “loan” of
expensive licenses to sell beer, or directly borrow money to buy
licenses on condition of selling the loaning brewer’s brands
exclusively, according to Sanford C. Bernstein.  Heineken is likely to be the biggest loser if the Mexican
market changes, said Anthony Bucalo, an analyst at Santander in
London, especially after AB InBev completed the deal to take
full control over Modelo last month.  “We believe AB InBev would win most mano-a-mano execution
fights with Heineken,” Bucalo said. “Scale and financial
resources matter in beer. ABI has significantly more of both in
Mexico and will likely have more in the future.”  Craft Beers  Ending exclusivities may provide a short-term fillip to
profit at  Heineken (HEIA)  and AB InBev, which Bucalo estimates pay
about $100 million to $150 million a year for the privilege.
Still, profitability may narrow again in the longer term as the
brewers invest in advertising and promotions to protect share.  For SABMiller, the cost of establishing a presence in
Mexico may be greater as the brewer would have to build
breweries and brands.  Even if the competition commission does attempt to open the
market, “it’s not an easy road, and it’s not going to be free”
for new competitors, Armando Valenzuela, head of the company’s
Mexico unit, said in an interview earlier this year.  Any change would be positive for Mexican drinkers,
Bernstein’s Stirling said. The brewer could bring brands
including Miller Genuine Draft to Mexico, giving consumers more
choice. Craft beers -- so beloved of Americans just across the
border and now made by more than 30 Mexican microbrewers --
could gain more traction.  “If exclusivities get banned, it’ll accelerate the
evolution of the Mexican market towards a more brand-led one,”
Stirling said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  