-- Mexico Auto Boom Means Ford Fusions Ride Rails to U.S.
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   J e n n i f e r   S u r a n e
-- 2013-07-03T20:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/mexico-auto-boom-means-ford-fusions-ride-rails-to-u-s-.html
Railroads are reaping the benefits
from  Mexico ’s  emergence  as an automobile exporter as they haul
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  sedans and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  compacts from deep in
the country’s interior to the U.S. border and beyond.  Ferrocarril Mexicano SA, Mexico’s largest carrier, projects
that annual auto revenue will rise at least 10 percent in each
of the next three years. Autos are the fastest-growing segment
by sales at No. 2 Kansas City Southern de Mexico SA.  Sixteen years after privatization of the national railroad,
record numbers of vehicles are moving by train to the U.S., the
destination for 64 percent of Mexican auto exports in 2012.
That’s boosting sales at each carrier’s parent:  Grupo Mexico
SAB (GMEXICOB) , which owns a majority of Ferromex, as the Mexican railroad
is known, and Kansas City Southern.  “All the automakers have been reinforcing their presence
in Mexico, and rail access is one of the ‘musts’ for the  auto
industry ,” Ferromex Chief Executive Officer Rogelio Velez said
in a telephone interview from Mexico City. Without the rail
investments that followed the first privatization in 1997, “We
wouldn’t have the auto industry we have now.”  Fuel Efficiency  Railroads’ fuel efficiency has long given them an edge in
winning long-haul business from trucks. Now, upgrades in
locomotives and rolling stock are allowing the Mexican carriers
to handle the increasing volumes of light vehicles pouring from
factories in cities such as Aguascalientes, Puebla and Toluca.  The Mexican Automobile Industry Association projects annual
output will reach 4 million vehicles in 2017, a gain of more
than 35 percent from last year’s record. Mexico ranked eighth in
global production in 2012, up from 12th in 2005, according to
the International Organization of Motor Vehicle Manufacturers.  Ford relies on railroads to move U.S.-bound Fusions and
Lincoln MKZs from its factory in Hermosillo, said Gabriel Lopez,
CEO of the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker’s Mexican unit.  “We’ve maximized the use of the railroad because it has
important cost advantages,” Lopez said in an interview at the
factory. “At this plant, 85 percent of capacity is for export
and everything that goes to the U.S.,  Canada  and the ports goes
by railroad.”  Bright Spot  Ferromex had 1.62 billion pesos ($124 million) in
automotive segment revenue  last year , up 10 percent from 2011.
Its top customers are  General Motors Co. (GM) , Ford, Chrysler Group
LLC and Nissan, the Yokohama, Japan-based automaker that is
Mexico’s biggest producer.  That growth was a bright spot for parent  Grupo Mexico ,
whose 2012 revenue dropped  2.5 percent  as global metals prices
slumped. Chief Financial Officer Daniel Muniz said in March the
company was studying an initial public offering for the rail
unit, which may occur this year, as well as IPOs for its
Americas mining and infrastructure businesses.  Grupo Mexico rose 3 percent, the most in five weeks, to
39.28 pesos at the close today in Mexico City, paring its year-to-date decline to 16 percent. The benchmark IPC index is down
6.6 percent in 2013.  Kansas City Southern (KSU)  was little changed in
 New York  at $109.97, with a 32 percent advance this year
outpacing the 13 percent gain by the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  First-quarter  automotive revenue at  the U.S. railroad ’s
Mexico unit climbed 29 percent to $44.6 million, or 17 percent
of the division’s sales.  New Plants  With three new automobile plants set to begin production in
the next 12 months, Kansas City Southern is poised to win
business after investing $300 million between 2007 and 2009 in
track upgrades to central Mexico from Houston, said William Galligan, vice president of  investor relations  at the Kansas
City, Missouri-based company.  “Given what we’ve been able to do in terms of gaining
market share, it would be logical to think that we would be able
to handle about half of that increase” in auto output, Galligan
said in a telephone interview.  With production gains in central Mexico outpacing domestic
sales growth, one challenge for railroads is that railcars full
of autos going north to the U.S. are often vacant for the return
trip, according to  Michael Robinet , managing director of
consultant IHS Automotive in Northville,  Michigan .  “There’s not enough rail cars for demand out of Mexico,
especially when they’re going down there empty,” Robinet said
in a telephone interview. “The railroads essentially have to
cover the cost with one leg.”  Rising Output  Mexico’s rising auto output may worsen that imbalance, and
some carmakers already are shipping by sea to the eastern U.S.
from Veracruz on the  Gulf of Mexico  or to  California  from the
country’s Pacific ports, Robinet said.  Mexican railroads still usually haul cars to ports, and
U.S. carriers gain whether vehicles arrive by rail or sea.  Burlington Northern  Santa Fe , the carrier owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., is boosting its Mexican and
U.S. auto business, said John Ambler, a spokesman.  Union Pacific
Corp. (UNP) , the largest U.S. railroad and owner of a minority stake
in Ferromex, handles about 90 percent of autos crossing the
border by rail, said Tom Lange, a spokesman.  Mexico’s auto exports reached a record 2.36 million
vehicles last year, twice the level of 2003, according to the
Mexican Auto Industry Association. A wave of automobile plants
opening their doors starting at the end of this year probably
heralds additional traffic, said Anthony Hatch, an independent
rail analyst based in New York.  Ford’s Hermosillo plant is running round-the-clock shifts
as it expands capacity 15 percent from 2011 to about 380,000,
part of a three-year, $1.3 billion investment announced in 2012.  Nissan,  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  are set to
open central Mexico factories with a combined capacity of more
than 600,000 autos, and may eventually raise that tally. Audi AG
broke ground last month on a $1.3 billion plant able to build
150,000 Q5 sport-utility vehicles a year starting in 2016.  “We know it’s sustainable for the interim because we have
plants that are being built but they have yet to roll out
vehicles,” Hatch said. “We’ve got a clear line of sight to an
additional million cars made in Mexico.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Surane in New York at 
 jsurane1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  