-- Fed Ready for September Taper After Shocking Market, Meyer Says
-- B y   A l e x a n d r i a   B a c a
-- 2013-07-03T17:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/fed-ready-for-september-taper-after-shocking-market-meyer-says.html
Federal Reserve policy makers are
ready to start tapering bond purchases in September after
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  shocked markets by announcing a
conditional timetable, said former Fed Governor  Laurence Meyer .  “They have made a decision virtually to go in September
unless the  data  disconfirms their expectations of the continued
improvement of the economy,” Meyer said of the Fed policy
makers’ meeting on June 18-19. “That was the shock of the
meeting to have a schedule thrown out at this time with three
months of employment data still ahead.”  If tapering does start in September, “why should there be
any response? Everybody expected it,” Meyer said today in an
interview on “The Hays Advantage” on  Bloomberg Radio  with
 Kathleen Hays  and Vonnie Quinn.  The Fed has been making $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases and holding the key interest-rate target near zero to
spur job growth and faster U.S. economic expansion. The central
bank will probably taper its asset purchases later in 2013 and
may stop them around mid-2014 as long as the economy performs in
line with the Fed’s projections, including a substantial
improvement in the labor market, Bernanke said at a June 19 news
conference.  After a slump following the Fed announcement, stocks gained
last week as economic data indicated Fed policy makers can
continue to provide additional stimulus to the economy.  ‘Greatest Gift’  The “greatest gift” Bernanke can give to the next Fed
chairman is to make the “tough decision” of when to start
tapering, said Meyer, co-founder and senior managing director of
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC. He said he sees “very little
chance” that the start of tapering would be delayed beyond
December.  Bernanke’s second four-year term as chairman ends on Jan.
31. While neither he nor the White House has said definitively
that he’ll step down, President  Barack Obama  suggested just that
in a television interview last month, saying the Fed chief had
stayed in his post “longer than he wanted.”  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  was named as the most likely
to succeed Bernanke by a third of those in a May poll of
international investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg
subscribers.  Meyer, 69, was a member of the Fed’s Board of Governors
from 1996 to 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandria Baca in Washington at 
 abaca3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  