-- Fewest Defaults Since ’09 Belie Detroit Insolvency: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-07-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/fewest-defaults-since-09-belie-detroit-insolvency-muni-credit.html
U.S. localities are defaulting at the
slowest rate since at least 2009, underscoring that
municipalities nationwide are seeing fiscal gains even as
 Detroit  is on the brink of a record-setting bankruptcy.  From  California  to New York, 26 local borrowers missed bond
payments for the first time in the first half of 2013, down from
45 a year earlier and 58 in the same period of 2011, according
to Municipal Market Advisors. It’s the slowest annual start
since the Concord, Massachusetts-based research firm began
tracking such failures in 2009.  While Detroit faces insolvency and Stockton, California,
last year became the biggest U.S. city to seek court protection,
the risk of payment defaults in the $3.7 trillion market is
still “extremely low,” said Matt Fabian, a managing director
at MMA. With the U.S. economy extending a rebound from the
recession that ended in 2009, state tax collections are
recovering and housing prices are at a seven-year high.  “A lot of the fiscal stress that was there over the past
couple of years is starting to improve,” said Neil Klein, who
helps oversee $1.2 billion of fixed income at Carret Asset
Management in New York. “As the U.S. economy gets better, so
will states and municipalities.”  Rally Fuel  Improving local finances helped fuel a nine-quarter rally
in municipal debt starting in 2011, the longest in two decades,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. While broad fixed-income losses since May halted the gains, local governments’
borrowing costs are still close to the lowest in  decades .  An expanding economy helps localities repay obligations in
full and on time. State tax collections have risen for 12
straight quarters, according to the Nelson A. Rockefeller
Institute of Government in  Albany , New York. Home prices in 20
cities rose  12.05 percent  in April from the same month last
year, the biggest annual gain since 2006, the S&P/Case-Shiller
index shows.  U.S. gross domestic product may grow about 1.9 percent this
year and by 2.7 percent in 2014, the  fastest  pace since 2006,
according to the median forecast of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Dollar Tally  Even as the number of first-time municipal defaults falls,
the tally is rising in dollar terms because of a handful of
issuers. Localities have failed to repay about $7.6 billion in
2013, the most for the first half of the year since at least
2009, MMA data show.  Debt sold by issuers that have long faced fiscal
challenges, such as Detroit, Stockton, and  Alabama ’s Jefferson
County, accounted for the bulk of the increase, according to
Fabian.  “These are the ripening of long-running legacy problems
that developed well before the recent financial crisis and
recession,” Fabian said.  Detroit’s tax base has shrunk as the city of about 700,000
residents has lost almost two-thirds of its population from a
postwar peak in 1950, according to a May report from Kevyn Orr,
the city’s emergency manager.  Orr is working to close a $386 million deficit and reduce
long-term debt of at least $17 billion by cutting benefits and
restructuring obligations. His proposal to avert a record
municipal bankruptcy includes halting payments on $2 billion of
munis.  Jefferson County, which filed the largest U.S. municipal
bankruptcy in 2011, plans to exit Chapter 9 this year by
slashing $1.2 billion in principal payments to holders of
defaulted sewer-related debt.  Beating Corporates  Municipalities are still defaulting less frequently than
corporate borrowers, according to a Moody’s Investors Service
assessment of issuers it rates. From 1970 to 2012, an average of
5.7 percent of munis that were sold a decade or more earlier and
had a junk rating defaulted, compared with 33.9 percent for
company debt.  With munis on pace for their first weekly gain since May,
New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority offered about
$334 million of tax-exempt debt. The agency postponed the issue
last month as yields climbed.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
recommended that trading stop at 2 p.m. New York time today for
the U.S. Independence Day holiday, and resume on Friday, July 5.  Interest rates have spiked on speculation the Federal
Reserve will slow its bond purchases as the economy improves.  Benchmark 10-year munis yield about  2.75 percent , after the
interest rate reached 2.96 percent last week, the highest since
April 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Similar-maturity
Treasuries yield about 2.47 percent.  Higher muni yields give buyers the potential for more
income even as borrowers are becoming less risky, Klein said.  “We’re actually seeing more investors looking to seize
opportunity by grabbing high yields and better quality,” Klein
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  