-- Fitch Says FDIC Rule Could Push Banks to Buy Riskier CLOs
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-07-03T18:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/fitch-says-fdic-rule-could-push-banks-to-buy-riskier-clos.html
U.S. banks, spurred by a federal
regulatory change, will be encouraged to buy the riskiest pieces
of a type of structured credit product or exit the investments
altogether, according to  Fitch Ratings .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  are among the
biggest investors in collateralized loan obligations, or CLOs,
which bundle speculative-grade loans into securities of varying
risk. Since April 1, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s
method for calculating premiums has assigned a higher cost to
all CLO investments, from the safest to the riskiest.  Banks are grappling with the change in how the FDIC
calculates their deposit insurance premiums, funds that are used
to repay account holders if a lender fails. Banks that choose to
keep investing in CLOs may stick to the riskier slices instead
of the AAA-rated portions because they offer greater returns,
Fitch said in a statement.  “The FDIC is trying to keep ahead of any emerging risk
related to CLOs,” Joo Yung Lee, head of Fitch’s North American
financial institutions group, said in a phone interview. “Their
general intention is to keep it simple and have an assessment
for higher capital charges for what they view as a riskier
potential asset class.”  U.S. banks owned $56.6 billion of CLOs at the end of March,
up 24 percent from a year earlier, according to Fitch. Fitch
cited data from Thomson Reuters Corp. unit Highline Financial.  90% Increase  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, owned about
$27.3 billion of the CLOs, Fitch said. Wells Fargo, the fourth-biggest, boosted its holdings of the securities to $15.3
billion, up 90 percent from a year earlier. No. 3  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
had $4.5 billion, Fitch said.  Large regional lenders and some “very small” institutions
also have increased their investments in CLOs to help compensate
for narrower net interest margins, Fitch said. That’s the
difference between the interest a bank pays on deposits and
receives on loans.  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , the second-biggest U.S.
regional bank, boosted its investments in the products to $2.1
billion at the end of March from $323 million a year earlier,
according to Fitch.  The FDIC, led by Chairman  Martin Gruenberg , crafted the
rule as part of the financial overhaul mandated by the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act. Changes in banks’ CLO investments could show up
when the companies report second-quarter results, Fitch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  