-- Fourth of July a Day of Bloody Protest in U.S. History
-- B y   A l a s d a i r   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-07-03T19:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/fourth-of-july-a-day-of-bloody-protest-u-s-history.html
On July 4, 1934, the U.S. was in the
fourth year of an  economic crisis . On the West Coast,
longshoremen had taken advantage of their newly acquired
unionization rights and were on strike. In  San Francisco , there
was an uneasy calm on the waterfront after a vicious battle
between police and strikers the day before.  The peace lasted only for a few hours. San Francisco’s
police were planning another attempt to open the port. On the
morning of July 5, they fired tear gas and charged the picket
lines. The struggle lasted for hours. “It was a Gettysburg in
the miniature,” the San Francisco Chronicle reported. By
evening, two strikers were dead and the National Guard had set
up machine-gun nests to guard the port.  The violence wasn’t surprising. The Fourth of July often
has been the occasion for such incidents, particularly when the
economy turned bad. The last deep economic crisis had been in
the 1890s. In 1894, commerce was paralyzed by a railway strike
that began in  Chicago . On July 4, federal troops were sent to
open the city’s rail yards. That evening, Chicago erupted in
violence. “Gatling guns scarcely kept the mob at bay,” a
newspaper account read. Eleven people died before order was
restored a week later.  Cavalry Charge  There had been an equally bloody railroad strike in July
1877, in the midst of the previous depression. In Chicago,
federal cavalry -- “veteran Indian fighters, who could be
relied upon in any emergency” -- charged a mob of 10,000 on
Halstead Street. Egged on by Chicago businessmen, the federal
government established a permanent garrison at Fort Sheridan, 30
miles north of the city.  The depression of the 1870s was the worst since the early
1840s. There was trouble then, too. In Philadelphia, competition
for scarce jobs stoked tensions between immigrants and native-born Americans.  The July 4 parade of 1844 was intended as a demonstration
of nativist power. It set off four days of urban combat as mobs
fought soldiers with artillery. On July 8, Philadelphia was
placed under martial law.  On  Independence Day , 2013, we are struggling with the
aftermath of what has been called the worst economic crisis
since the Great Depression. But this crisis hasn’t been marked
by widespread social unrest. Why not?  The first reason is that we have the capacity to control
unrest more efficiently, in large part due to bloody
Independence Day protests of the past. Rioting in the 1840s
caused major cities of the industrial northeast -- Philadelphia,
 New York , Boston, Baltimore -- to undertake the first serious
attempts at creating urban police forces. The troubles of the
late 19th century led to reforms that made the National Guard
better at riot control. And the 1930s produced tighter legal
restrictions on the timing and location of demonstrations.  We’ve seen a similar expansion of policing capacity over
the last three decades. Law enforcement officers are better
equipped than ever before. The sight of police in full riot gear
was a novelty in 1980; not today. And major police forces are
much better at containing violence when it does happen.  That helps explain why the Occupy protests were so peaceful
in most cities -- and why they generally ended quietly.  The second reason is the collapse of the union movement.
Union-organized strikes and demonstrations don’t usually turn
violent, but the potential for conflict is reduced if strikes
and demonstrations aren’t organized at all. And that is the
story of the last three decades. Today, only 7 percent of the
private sector workforce is unionized. Between 1950 and 1980,
the U.S. experienced an average of 300 major strikes a
year. Between 2000 and 2010, it was 17 a year.  Social Programs  A third reason is the endurance of the social safety net --
the web of programs including welfare,  unemployment insurance ,
 Social Security  and Medicaid that protects Americans from
economic distress. The system has been battered over the past 30
years. Still, the safety net remains much more extensive than it
was in the 1930s. And it’s doing what many of its designers
hoped it would do -- helping to keep the peace during hard
times.  Finally, federal authorities are acting in a limited way to
prevent the economy from spiraling further downward. Granted,
policy makers have been reluctant to launch aggressive spending
programs to stimulate the economy. But the  Federal Reserve  has
shown no hesitation about pursuing unorthodox measures to avoid
a full-scale depression. This is a big change from previous
crises, when governments hesitated to aggressively intervene in
the economy.  Americans today think of economic policy as a technical
matter, detached from gritty questions of law and order. That
makes us different from our predecessors of the 19th and early
20th centuries.  We may not like all the ways that American society has
developed to keep the peace when times get tough, but they have
prevented another violent Fourth of July.  (Alasdair Roberts is the Jerome L. Rappaport Professor of
Law and Public Policy at Suffolk University Law School in
 Boston . He is the author of “America’s First Great Depression:
Economic Crisis and Political Disorder After the Panic of
1837.”)  To contact the author of this post:
Alasdair Roberts at  alasdair.roberts@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  