-- Fresenius, Cronut, Malibu Media: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/fresenius-cronut-malibu-media-intellectual-property.html
Fresenius Medical Care AG won a U.S.
appeals court ruling that will end a patent-infringement claim
brought against it by  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  over kidney
dialysis machines in 2003.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office canceled the Baxter
patent after a review while the civil suit was still pending, so
there is no longer any basis for Baxter’s claim, the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  ruled
yesterday. The opinion was posted on the court’s website.  The case is Fresenius USA v. Baxter International, 12-1334,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The lower court
case is Fresenius USA v. Baxter International, 03-cv-01431, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (Oakland).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Dueling Applications Filed to Register ‘Cronut’ as Trademark  In the past month and a half, three applications have been
filed with the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  to register
marks related to the “cronut” phenomenon.  Pastry Chef Dominique Ansel, who created the cronut and
operates the Dominique Ansel Bakery in  New York , filed his
application May 19 and said he will use it for a wide range of
bakery products.  Cronuts are a croissant and donut pastry hybrid that is
becoming a trendy, high-calorie treat sold at bakeries
unaffiliated with Ansel in  London ,  Philadelphia ,  Los Angeles  and
 New York .  On June 10, Stephen Foung of Needham,  Massachusetts , filed
an application to register “cronut hole” as a trademark, to be
used for retail bakery shops.  The third application was filed June 17 by Crystalline
Management LLC of Irving Texas. That application indicates that
the mark would be used for both sweet and savory donuts.  In a June 28  posting  on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social-media site,
Ansel said that he applied for the mark “against the type of
bullying that is taking place now.”  He said in the posting that his “desire to protect the
name is not an attempt to claim or take credit for all cooking
methods associated with the recipe or all croissant and doughnut
products in general.”  Ansel said he is seeking “protection against un-granted
affiliations with the bakery or confusion from customers.”  NAACP Trademark Dispute With Abortion Opponent Set for Trial  A trademark dispute between the  National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People  and a Virginia-based abortion
opponent is scheduled for trial in December, according to a
court filing.  Ryan Bomberger and his Radiance Foundation Inc. sued in
February in federal court in Norfolk, Virginia, seeking a court
declaration that he wasn’t infringing the 104-year-old civil
rights group’s trademarks.  He said that his foundation, which aims to present
“historical, cultural and statistical information with a
Christian worldview on particular issues,” doesn’t harm the
NAACP. He claims his alleged infringement falls within the First
Amendment’s free speech protections.  He has compared abortion to slavery and on his
 TooManyAborted.com  website said the civil-rights group should be
renamed “The National Association for the Abortion of Colored
People” because it supported a 2004 pro-choice event held by
 Planned Parenthood  and related groups.  The Baltimore-based NAACP responded in April, objecting to
ads placed on the toomanyaborted.com website with the text
“Civil Wrong. The National Association for the Abortion of
Colored People.” Additionally, the rights group said
Bomberger’s use of its marks in Internet postings and on
Facebook Inc.’s social-media site made no reference that such
uses were intended to be satiric references to the NAACP.  The public is likely to be confused by Bomberger’s
unauthorized use of the marks and may lead people to believe
falsely that the NAACP is pro-abortion, the group said.  The NAACP asked the court to bar further infringement of
its marks and to order the destruction of all infringing
products and promotional materials. Additionally, the rights
group asked for awards of money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs and asked that the damages be tripled to punish
Bomberger for his actions.  The case is Radiance Foundation Inc. v. National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People, 13-cv-00053,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Virginia  (Norfolk).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  German Court Tells Malibu Media Adult Films Not Protectable  Malibu Media LLC, a maker of adult films, received a
setback in its efforts to enforce its copyrights against
unauthorized file-sharers in  Germany , the TorrentFreak anti-copyright news site  reported .  The District Court of Munich ruled that Malibu’s films
aren’t entitled to protection under Germany’s copyright laws
because of their “primitive depiction of sexual activities,”
according to TorrentFreak.  The film company, which also filed multiple infringement
suits in the U.S., had asked the court for permission to get the
identities of those it claimed shared eight Malibu films,
including “Flexible Beauty,” and “Young Passion,” the news
website reported.  The court also said it wasn’t convinced Malibu actually
owned the rights to the films because the company’s name wasn’t
found anywhere on the disputed videos, according to
TorrentFreak.  Beaulieu Group Wins $1.95 Million in Damages in Copyright Suit  Beaulieu Group LLC, a manufacturer of carpeting and floor
tiles, was ordered to pay $1.95 million to a  Georgia  graphics
arts company in a copyright infringement case.  Virtual Studios Inc.  of Dalton, Georgia, sued Beaulieu in
federal court in Chattanooga,  Tennessee , in December 2011. It
claimed that Beaulieu made use of Virtual’s room-scene software
program beyond the terms of a license.  Virtual said that it learned that even though business
between the two companies diminished, Beaulieu continued to use
the product hundreds of times past the one-year license period
and failed to pay fees for the additional use.  A jury on June 13 found that Virtual’s copyright was
infringed. After the damages phase of the trial, the jury on
June 17 awarded Virtual $1.95 million.  The case is Virtual Studios Inc. v. Beaulieu Group LLC,
1:11-cv-00359, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Tennessee (Chattanooga).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  