-- German Stocks Slump the Most in More Than a Week
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-07-03T16:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/german-stocks-slump-for-second-day-as-deutsche-bank-drops.html
German stocks  declined the most in
more than a week after Portugal’s government lost the leader of
its junior coalition partner, reviving concern that the country
will cease its attempts to cut spending.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  fell to its lowest price in 10 weeks after
Standard & Poor’s downgraded the lender’s credit rating.  Adidas
AG (ADS)  slid 2.2 percent as Deutsche Bank lowered its recommendation
for the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker.  The  DAX (DAX)  dropped 1 percent to 7,829.32 at the close in
 Frankfurt . The gauge has  lost 8.2 percent  since May 22, when the
Federal Reserve signaled that it may start to pare stimulus if
the U.S. economy strengthens in line with its forecasts. The
broader HDAX Index also slid 1 percent today.  “After the fears about the Fed tapering stimulus and China
growth, the focus is back on Europe,” said  Markus Wallner , an
equity strategist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “We clearly
see that with the spread, particularly in Portugal. The theme is
back to the euro crisis. Sentiment is very negative due to too
many uncertainties.”  Portuguese bonds slumped, pushing  10-year yields  above 8
percent for the first time this year, after Paulo Portas
resigned as foreign minister. Portas, who also leads the smaller
CDS party in the coalition government, quit after Secretary of
State for Treasury Maria Luis  Albuquerque  replaced Vitor Gaspar
at the Ministry of Finance. The CDS leader said the new finance
minister would offer “mere continuity” of the country’s
deficit-cutting plans.  Egypt Protests  In  Egypt , President Mohamed Mursi defied protests calling
for his resignation. He proposed to end the nation’s political
crisis by calling for an interim coalition government. The
country’s military had set a deadline of today on the leader to
find a way out of the crisis.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 11 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Bank declined 1.4 percent to 31.46 euros as S&P
cut its credit rating to A from A+. The rating company said that
new regulations and the increased risk of litigation threatened
the lender’s investment-banking business. S&P added that the
outlook for the bank is stable.  A gauge of European lenders contributed the most to the
Stoxx 600’s decline.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  slid 5.4 percent to 5.83
euros, its lowest price since at least August 1992.  Adidas dropped 2.2 percent to 81.95 euros after Deutsche
Bank cut the stock to neutral, the equivalent of hold, from buy.
The brokerage said that most currencies have moved to the
detriment of the company.  “We don’t think that Adidas’ strategic positioning has
worsened,” Michael Kuhn, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, wrote in
a report. “However, the company has huge international sales
exposure, and almost every currency has developed to its
disadvantage, massively hitting its profit-generation ability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  