-- Germany Urges Greece to Keep Pledges as Debt-Cut Talk Resurfaces
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-07-03T10:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/germany-urges-greece-to-keep-pledges-as-debt-cut-talk-resurfaces.html
Greece must stick to the promises it
made to obtain a second bailout by pressing ahead with efforts
to make its economy more competitive and meet budget targets,
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said before his
departure to Athens today.  Germany wants Greece to know that it’s a reliable partner,
Westerwelle’s ministry said in a statement. The  Greek economy  is
bearing the first fruits of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s
policy, it said.  German ministers are stepping up visits to Greece as
Samaras struggles to fulfill the terms for the next payment of
bailout aid. Westerwelle’s 24-hour trip will be followed up by a
July 18 visit to Athens by Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble.
The visit is taking place amid speculation about a second Greek
debt writedown, which German officials today rejected, and as
the triumvirate of  European Central Bank , European Union and
 International Monetary Fund  that oversees euro-area bailouts
reviews Greece’s reform progress.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she doesn’t foresee a second
debt cut for Greece in an interview with  Sueddeutsche Zeitung 
published today. “I’m going on the premise that the debt
sustainability still applies,” Merkel is cited as saying.  Recurring discussions about a debt cut aren’t helpful as
they distract from necessary reform efforts undertaken by
Greece, ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said in an
interview with Die Welt.  Solidarity Symbol  “Despite progress, there’s still some way to go to
conclude the review positively,” Asmussen is cited as saying.  Greek Development Minister Kostis Hatzidakis, in an
interview with the same newspaper yesterday, said the country
expects a “symbol of solidarity” from its European partners.
Asked whether another debt cut could be such a symbol, he said:
“If we’re reliable and surprise in a positive way, I’m sure
that our partners will show their solidarity with  Greece .”  Euro-area leaders including Schaeuble last year raised the
prospect of Greece gaining a review of its bailout terms once
the country was able to report a so-called primary  budget
surplus , meaning a surplus excluding interest payments on debt.  After a portion of Greek debt held by private investors was
canceled in 2011, a second writedown of Greek debt is precluded
from a prospective review, Schaeuble said on June 26.  Samaras will today join Chancellor Angela Merkel in a
summit of European leaders in Berlin that’s addressing the
continent’s soaring youth unemployment. The number of Greek
youngsters without a job reached 59.2 percent in March compared
with 7.6 percent in Germany May, the latest figures from
Eurostat on July 1 show. Measures to tackle the jobless tally
will include employment programs financed by loans from the
 European Investment Bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  