-- Portugal Yields Jump on Political Crisis as Spanish Bonds Slide
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-07-03T15:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/germany-s-bonds-rise-amid-portugal-turmoil-before-services-data.html
Portugal’s bonds slumped, pushing 10-year yields above 8 percent for the first time since November,
on concern the resignation of two ministers will derail the
government’s attempts to implement austerity measures.  Spanish and  Italian (GBTPGR10)  securities fell for a second day after
Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  told voters from
Lisbon last night he’s trying to hold his government together.
German 10-year bunds rose for a third day as investors sought
safer assets and after a report showed euro-region services
contracted in June more than economists forecast.  Germany  sold
3.36 billion euros ($4.37 billion) of five-year notes.  “Portugal is the main issue today and peripheral bonds are
weaker,” said Rainer Guntermann, a rates strategist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “This could have implications for
Portugal in that a return to the market could be delayed or much
more difficult. In the long run, the risk is a further support
package could be needed.”  Portugal’s 10-year yield jumped 74 basis points, or 0.74
percentage point, to 7.46 percent at 4:21 p.m.  London  time after
climbing to 8.11 percent, the highest level since Nov. 21. The
4.95 percent bond due in October 2023 dropped 4.75, or 47.50
euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 82.35.  Foreign Affairs Minister Paulo Portas, leader of junior
coalition party CDS, quit yesterday in protest at the
government’s budget policy. Finance chief Vitor Gaspar also
stepped down this week, saying his credibility had been
compromised by the government’s failure to meet fiscal targets
set by the European Union.  Spreads Widen  Political uncertainty in  Portugal  is provoking a reaction
throughout the Iberian peninsula, Citigroup Inc. strategists
including Peter Goves wrote in an e-mailed note.  “The epicenter of market volatility is now 10-year
Portuguese government bonds,” they wrote. “The full impact of
the unfolding political events is unclear at this stage.  Spain ,
like many markets, is a passenger in this event and yields have
risen as a consequence.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity German bunds expanded 78 basis
points to 5.80 percentage points after reaching 6.46 percentage
points, the widest since Nov. 27.  Yields on Spanish 10-year bonds climbed 16 basis points to
4.78 percent and those on 10-year Italian debt increased eight
basis points to 4.52 percent.  The bonds of the euro area’s peripheral nations have
rallied during the past year after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  pledged to buy the securities of highly
indebted member nations should they request it.  Spain’s 10-year yield has dropped almost 50 basis points
since Jan. 1 and Portugal’s is less than half its euro-era
record of 18.29 percent set in January 2012.  German Bonds  German bonds rose along with those of  Austria  and the
Netherlands as investors sought out the region’s core government
securities amid concern the debt crisis is worsening.  German 10-year yields fell four basis points to 1.67
percent. Similar-maturity Austrian yields dropped one basis
point to 2.12 percent and those of the Netherlands declined two
basis points to 2.08 percent.  An  index (BGER)  of services activity in the euro-area based on a
survey of  purchasing managers  was 48.3 in June, less than the
initial estimate of 48.6 announced on June 20, London-based
Markit Economics said. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Germany sold notes maturing in April 2018 at an average
yield of 0.63 percent, compared with 0.54 percent at the
previous auction of five-year debt on June 5. The nation sold
five-year notes at a  record-low  rate of 0.31 percent on Aug. 1.  ‘Most Acute’  Bonds slumped around the world last month after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said U.S. policy makers may
start reducing debt purchases this year.  “We had a period where we were trading against a backdrop
of  liquidity risk , where all boats were sinking on the same
tide,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income strategist
at Rabobank International in London. “Today we have returned to
fundamental risk, where what is good news for safe-haven assets
is bad news for riskier assets. We don’t believe issues from the
debt crisis ever really went away and the most acute problem
right now is obviously Portugal.”  Volatility on Portuguese bonds was the highest among
developed markets today, followed by those of Spain and Italy,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  German securities handed investors a loss of 1.5 percent
this year through yesterday, according to the Bloomberg Germany
Sovereign Bond Index. Portuguese bonds returned 2.8 percent,
while  Spanish (GSPG10YR)  bonds gained 6 percent, separate Bloomberg World
Bond Indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  