-- Glaxo J&J Combination May Control HIV With Monthly Injections
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-07-03T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/glaxo-j-j-combination-may-control-hiv-with-monthly-injections.html
Monthly injections with HIV therapies
from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  sustained levels
of the drugs in blood that should control the virus, according
to a study that suggests the shots may one day provide a safer,
more convenient treatment option to daily pills.  In a trial among 40 HIV-negative volunteers of Glaxo’s
GSK744 and J&J’s TMC278, monthly injections sustained drug
levels above a predetermined threshold considered necessary to
control HIV, during the trial and for four months after the last
shot, according to  results  presented at the International AIDS
Society’s meeting in Kuala Lumpur today.  HIV, once treated with a toxic cocktail of as many as 30
tablets a day, is now subdued with a daily pill such as  Gilead
Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s Atripla. Still, the drugs must be taken for life
and can cause long-term damage to the liver, pushing drugmakers
to look for even safer and less burdensome therapy. Glaxo and
J&J are now testing the combination, the most advanced of its
kind, in people with HIV to see whether it can keep the virus in
check.  “It’s certainly something that people have great interest
in,” Bill Spreen, the Glaxo scientist who’s responsible for
developing GSK744, said in a telephone interview from Kuala
Lumpur. “There’s going to be a sub-population of patients who
select this.”  A survey of 400 HIV-infected patients found 84 percent said
they would probably or definitely try monthly injectable
therapy, according to a  study  published in the journal
Nanomedicine in April.  Quarterly Shots  Quarterly shots may also be a useful way of preventing
infections in people at risk of catching HIV, Spreen said. While
trials have shown that uninfected people who take Gilead’s
Truvada pill preemptively can reduce their chances of getting
the virus, the inconvenience and side effects of taking a daily
medicine can deter them from using it.  GSK744 is being developed by ViiV Healthcare, a joint
venture between London-based Glaxo, New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
and Osaka, Japan-based  Shionogi & Co. (4507)  The drug is related to
dolutegravir, which may win U.S. regulatory approval by August
and earn Glaxo more than $1 billion in sales by 2018, according
to the average of seven analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  People in the trial took GSK744 in tablet form once a day
for two weeks, then stopped treatment for a week before
receiving one of three different combinations of the injections
once a month for four months. A fourth group received two
injections three months apart.  J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, won U.S. approval
in 2011 for an oral form of TMC278, also known as Edurant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  