-- Glaxo, Danone Probed as China Scrutinizes Foreign Firms
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-03T08:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/glaxo-danone-probed-as-china-scrutinizes-foreign-firms.html
China’s probes of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) 
and Danone highlight challenges for foreign companies in a
market where they may be a bigger “prize” for regulators
seeking to allay concerns that medicines and foods are unsafe.  The U.K. drugmaker is being probed for alleged bribery,
while Danone, along with  Nestle SA’s (NESN)  Wyeth brand,  Mead Johnson
Nutrition Co. (MJN)  and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , are under investigation
for pricing that may have violated anti-monopoly laws.  Scandals including contaminated milk powder and rat meat
sold as mutton have fueled demands for the government to crack
down on safety violations.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  are
among foreign companies that have had to apologize this year to
consumers in the world’s second-biggest economy after Chinese
authorities began investigating their operations.  “Everybody is being targeted, but I think it’s more of a
prize or its something you can emphasize a lot more in media
when you find foreign companies are doing it as well,” said
James Roy, an analyst at China Market Research Group. “Foreign
companies operating in China have to be careful.”  Premier  Li Keqiang , who took office in March, has pledged
to root out consumer abuses. Chinese authorities ordered
Volkswagen AG to recall vehicles for a defective gearbox system
a day after Li was named premier. Apple Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  issued a public apology on April 1 after the company
was lambasted by Chinese state media for arrogance and poor
 customer service . In January, Yum Vice Chairman Sam Su
apologized for a food safety scandal involving a former
supplier.  Difficult Market  China, the world’s biggest market for cars, personal
computers and mobile phones, is becoming a more difficult place
to do business, according to foreign companies in the nation.
More than two thirds of member companies that responded to a
survey by the American Chamber of Commerce in  Shanghai  released
in February said the regulatory environment was either “not
improving” or “deteriorating.”  A senior Glaxo finance executive in Shanghai and employees
in Beijing were detained as part of a corruption investigation,
the  South China Morning Post  reported on July 1, citing an
unidentified person from Shanghai’s drug industry. Simon Steel,
a Glaxo spokesman in  London , declined to comment on June 30
about whether any staff have been arrested or detained.  Police in the southern city of Changsha said June 28 that
senior Glaxo China executives were suspected of economic crimes
and were being investigated, without elaboration. The company is
unclear about the nature of the investigation, Steel said.  Whistle Blower  An anonymous tipster made allegations that Glaxo’s sales
force in China was involved in widespread bribery of doctors to
prescribe medication, in some cases for unauthorized uses,
between 2004 and 2010, the Wall Street Journal reported June 13.
Glaxo found no evidence of wrongdoing after a four-month probe
into a whistle-blower’s claims of corruption and bribery, the
London-based company said at the time.  China’s efforts to strengthen its health care system has
included stamping out corruption. Last year, seven managers and
directors of key public hospitals in the city of Shenzhen were
given jail sentences for taking kickbacks, the China Daily
newspaper  reported  in October.  Siemens AG,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, was sued
earlier this year by a former compliance officer in its China
unit who claimed he was fired after exposing evidence of
hospital kickbacks.  Milk Powder  Danone (BN) , Nestle’s Wyeth brand, Mead Johnson, Abbott
Laboratories, Dutch producer Royal FrieslandCampina NV as well
as local firm  Biostime International Holdings Ltd. (1112)  are being
investigated by the National Development and Reform Commission,
China’s top economic planning agency, for pricing of their
 infant formula , the official People’s Daily reported yesterday.  The NDRC has evidence the companies sold products at high
prices in China and their prices have increased about 30 percent
since 2008, according to the newspaper, which is published by
the Communist Party.  The agency didn’t answer at least five calls or respond to
a fax seeking comment on its investigation.  The companies probed may face possible fines of between 1
and 10 percent of their revenue if found guilty by the NDRC, the
 China  Securities Journal reported today, citing unnamed experts
on the anti-monopoly law.  Biostime hasn’t received any official feedback or
information on possible penalties from the NDRC, Jason Xu, the
firm’s assistant chief financial officer, said over the phone
today.  Biostime’s Hong Kong-listed shares declined for the third
day today, falling as much as 19 percent to HK$35, the most
since its listing in December 2010.  A melamine-tainted milk powder scandal in 2008 that killed
at least six infants has fanned distrust among Chinese consumers
of local milk and driven their purchases of foreign brands at
home and overseas.  “We view news of a price probe as being a warning shot
across the bows of the industry and something that will put a
lid on any near-term price increments,” said Jeff Stent, an
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in London. “We need to remember
that this is a phenomenon driven by consumers rightly having
little confidence in the safety of the domestic milk supply.”  Danone, Mead Johnson and Nestle said they are cooperating
with the authorities. Jan-Willem ter Avest, a spokesman from
Royal FrieslandCampina, said in an e-mail that the company is
fully cooperating with the government to comply with pricing
policies and regulations. A spokesman for Abbott couldn’t be
reached for comment.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  