-- Glaxo Awaits Details of China Probe 6 Days After Police Call
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-03T09:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/glaxo-awaits-details-of-china-probe-6-days-after-policy-inquiry.html
Six days after police in  China  began
an investigation into GlaxoSmithKline Plc, the U.K.’s biggest
drugmaker still has no details on the probe, a spokesman said.  Senior executives at Glaxo China are suspected of
“economic crimes” and are being investigated by Changsha
public security officials, the city’s police force said June 28
on its official blog, without elaborating.  Simon Steel, a Glaxo spokesman in  London , repeated
yesterday that the company is unclear of the precise nature or
purpose of the investigation, which began June 27. “There is
nothing further to add to that,” Steel said today in an e-mail.  State-run  China Daily  said  today  the probe raises concerns
about ongoing corruption in the country’s drug industry, which
is the world’s fastest-growing pharmaceutical market according
to consulting firm  IMS Health Inc . The situation may also signal
a wider scope for investigations as China tries to rein in
corruption.  “Historically the focus of the Chinese government had been
on government officials receiving bribes,” said  Kim Nemirow , a
Hong Kong-based partner at law firm Ropes & Gray LLP. “More
recently the scope has expanded to those individuals who are
giving bribes to government officials.”  Chinese authorities have stepped up enforcement of bribery
and corruption since President Xi Jinping took office last
November, Nemirow said.  Open Secret  “It would be a wrong decision for any company to stop
investing in or even leave China” due to the stricter
regulations, said  Qiagen NV (QGEN)  Chief Financial Officer Roland Sackers in a  Shanghai  interview today. “Not just because of the
sales growth, but also because of the skills of the scientists
you can find here.”  Today’s  China Daily  article mentioned the case of Zheng Xiaoyu, the former head of China’s  State Food and Drug
Administration , who was executed in 2007 after his conviction
for taking bribes and approving dangerous medicines.  At the time of Zheng’s execution, 38 multinational
drugmakers announced their intention to resist commercial
corruption. Yet, bribing of doctors by pharmaceutical companies
is still an “open secret,” according to the newspaper, which
cited unidentified people working in the industry.  A senior Glaxo finance executive in Shanghai and employees
in Beijing were detained as part of a corruption investigation,
the  South China Morning Post  said July 1, citing an unidentified
person from Shanghai’s drug industry. Steel declined to comment
yesterday on whether any staff have been arrested or detained.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  