-- Goldman Sachs Given Two-Year Phase-Out for Some Swaps Trades
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-03T19:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/goldman-sachs-granted-two-year-phase-out-for-some-swaps-trading.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will have
another two years to separate derivatives trading from units
that get federal backing, according to a  letter  to the bank
posted on the Federal Reserve website.  The Fed said in the letter that the New York-based bank
must determine whether to kill the swaps activity or move it to
properly capitalized affiliates. Under the Dodd-Frank Act rule
requiring the swaps push-out, interest-rate and some credit
swaps can still be traded inside the bank.  “The potential impact of granting a 24-month transition
period is less adverse than the potential impact of denying the
transition period,” Robert Frierson, secretary of the board,
wrote in the letter dated yesterday. Giving Goldman Sachs the
transition time lowers “the probability of operational problems
and market disruption,” Frierson wrote.  Dodd-Frank overhauled swaps trading in an effort to make
the industry less vulnerable to a crisis such as the one that
struck in 2008. The law requires equity, some commodity and non-cleared credit derivatives be pushed out of bank units with
access to deposit insurance and the Fed’s discount window.  Andrew Williams , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York,
declined to comment on the extension.  Last month the Fed granted foreign-based U.S. banks the
ability to ask for the 24-month transition periods under the
2010 law. That move and extension for Goldman Sachs averts a
July 16 deadline for banks to cut off their swaps activities.  On June 12, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
granted similar extensions to banks including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , HSBC Holdings Plc and  U.S. Bancorp. (USB)  Each company
now has until July 2015 to come up with orderly ways to comply
with the Dodd-Frank rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 