-- Goodlatte Open to Citizenship for Undocumented Youth
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-07-03T04:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/goodlatte-open-to-citizenship-for-undocumented-youth.html
A key House Republican in the debate
over revising immigration policy said he would consider offering
some young people brought illegally to the U.S. as children a
chance to become citizens.  House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte made the
comments at a town hall meeting last night in Lynchburg,
Virginia, following a teary plea from a 16-year-old high school
student whose parents are undocumented immigrants.  “People like you should be addressed,” Goodlatte told
Dulce Elias, who said she came to the U.S. from  Mexico  as a 3-year-old. “Maybe for someone like you,” legislation “could
include a path to citizenship,” he said.  The comments by Goodlatte, who opposes the citizenship path
for the U.S.’s estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants
outlined in a bill the Democratic-controlled Senate passed on a
68-32 vote last week, signals his flexibility on the issue as
his committee continues to draft its own versions of immigration
legislation.  House Republicans , the chamber’s majority, are to meet July
10 in  Washington  after lawmakers return from their week-long
July 4th recess to discuss the topic.  Some national Republican leaders have said the party needs
to help pass a comprehensive approach to immigration policy that
addresses the citizenship issue to win back some support from
Hispanic voters. That fast-growing bloc supported Democratic
President  Barack Obama  in last November’s election, 71 percent
to 29 percent, over Republican nominee  Mitt Romney , who had
called on undocumented immigrants to self-deport.  ‘Serious Problem’  “We are very serious about addressing this issue,”
Goodlatte said in an interview before the town hall meeting.
“We have a very serious problem with immigration.”  His response to Elias suggested possible support for some
version of the so-called Dream Act, which called for a path to
citizenship for those undocumented immigrants who were children
when they were brought to the U.S. and had been in the country
for at least five years, among other requirements.  After Obama failed to persuade Congress to pass that
measure, he issued an order last year that said the government
would no longer deport those who were brought to the U.S.
illegally as children and met various requirements, including
having graduated from high school, were in college or have been
honorably discharged from the military. The House last month
approved cutting off funding for the program, with Goodlatte
backing the move.  Republican Senators  The Dream Act provisions are part of the Senate bill.
Goodlatte has joined House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio
Republican , in saying that legislation is dead on arrival in
their chamber. Backers of the Senate measure included 14
Republicans, who broke with the 32 other members of their caucus
who voted against it.  Along with its citizenship provisions, the bill would
direct $46.3 billion toward securing the frontier with Mexico --
the costliest border-security plan ever for the U.S. Also, all
employers would have to check workers’ legal status with an e-verify system, and a visa entry and exit system would be
required at all airports and seaports. Those provisions would
have to be in place before any undocumented immigrant could gain
permanent legal status, known as a green card.  “We’re not going to take up the Senate bill in the
House,” Goodlatte, 60, told the more than 100 people who filled
a room for his town hall gathering at the Lynchburg Public
Library, part of the district he has represented since 1993.
“We should write our own bills.”  Other Concerns  Goodlatte began the almost two-hour session -- double its
scheduled length -- with extensive comments on immigration and
why enforcement of the border and making sure visitors don’t
overstay their visas need to be the top priority in any change
of policy. Once he began taking audience questions, though, many
of the speakers focused on more parochial issues, such as
problems with the Department of  Veterans Affairs .  Goodlatte, as chairman of the Judiciary Committee, has
rejected the all-encompassing Senate approach in favor of
enacting several different measures. His panel already has voted
to create a farm guest-worker program, strengthen enforcement of
immigration laws, expand an electronic-verification program and
provide visas for high-skilled foreign workers.  The panel hasn’t acted on providing legal status for
undocumented immigrants, which many Republicans in Congress
oppose as “amnesty” for those who broke the law in entering
the country.  Tea Party Letter  Ann Becker, president of the Cincinnati chapter of the
anti-tax  Tea Party , sent a letter to Boehner yesterday
expressing her group’s opposition to the Senate bill and calling
on the House to concentrate solely on border security.  “This is a line in the sand for me,” Becker said in a
statement.  Goodlatte heard similar sentiments from many of his
constituents.  “If we keep on having unlimited immigration from the Third
World, we will become a Third World country,” said Stuart
Jones, an engineer from Lynchburg. “First secure the border.
Then we can talk.”  Representing the other side in the debate, the
Charlottesville, Virginia-based advocacy group Organize  Virginia 
brought more than 20 people to the meeting to support a
citizenship path for the undocumented.  “What happens to those who have been here all their
lives,” asked Elias, a resident of Harrisonburg, in her
comments to the congressman. “Why not a pathway to citizenship?
I love it here. This is my country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Lynchburg, Virginia, at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 