-- Google Taking Lehman Space Helps Japan’s Mori Lower Costs
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2013-07-03T00:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/google-taking-lehman-space-helps-japan-s-mori-lower-costs.html
Mori Building Co., whose  Roppongi
Hills  complex this year lured Google Inc. to take  office space 
once occupied by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., is cutting costs
by replacing hybrid debt sold during the credit crisis.  The owner of the 54-story Mori Tower is taking advantage of
monetary stimulus by the Bank of Japan to buy back and retire
110 billion yen ($1.09 billion) of preferred shares on July 29,
refinancing 70 billion yen of the paper. The new securities will
cost 250 basis points more than the yen Libor, less than the 300
it paid five years ago. That compares with an about 56 basis
point premium for Japanese company loans in May and 271 over
dollar Libor for U.S. borrowers.  Apple Inc. followed Google into the $2.2 billion complex in
May as  Tokyo ’s office market shows signs of recovery and the
BOJ’s plan to defeat inflation within two years improves
prospects for property owners. Mori Building joins  Sumitomo
Realty & Development Co. (8830)  in taking advantage of balance sheet
improvements to reduce hybrid securities, which are used to prop
up financial ratios because they are a mix between debt and
equity. Japan Credit Rating Agency Ltd. left the rankings of the
two companies unchanged in response to the issuance plans.  “The market conditions for borrowers are very favorable
now,” allowing companies to retire pricier financial
instruments that contribute to equity, said Kozo Nakanishi, a
credit analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “The impact on
credit ratings was a sensitive point in considering the source
of funding for both Mori Building and Sumitomo Realty.”  Hybrid Reduction  Mori Building said on June 25 it plans to reduce its
outstanding balance of preferred shares by 40 billion yen
through the transaction this month. The privately-held company’s
ratio of shareholder equity to assets has climbed to 24 percent
from 15 percent in March 2007, it said at the time.  The Tokyo-based developer sold 110 billion yen of preferred
stock in March 2008 to shore up its balance sheet and the
dividend on the securities is scheduled to increase to 420 basis
points more than the London interbank offered rate for the yen
next month. Twelve-month Libor for the currency traded at 0.42
percent yesterday.  JCR maintained its ranking on the company at A-, the risk
assessor’s fourth-lowest investment grade, according to a
statement on the same day. “The impact on its financial
standing is limited,” Kenji Sumitani, chief analyst at the
ratings company, said in a telephone interview.  Profit Jump  Mori Building last month forecast  net income  will jump to
139 billion yen this fiscal year to March 2014, from 14.5
billion yen in the previous 12 months, after the developer made
the special purpose company operating Roppongi Hills into a
subsidiary on consolidated basis. The complex will contribute
117 billion yen to profit in the period, it said.  The development, which took two decades to complete,
includes four apartment buildings, a movie theater and a hotel,
and is home to Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Barclays Plc. and
Lenovo Group Ltd. The company in May said its Shanghai World
Financial Center,  China ’s  tallest building , is operating at near
full capacity, raising the total occupancy rate for its
properties to 96 percent, from 90 percent three years earlier.  “The improvement in our capital base due to the annual
profit growth and contribution from the increasing value of the
Roppongi Hills property are giving investors something to feel
pleased about,” said Yuichi Kosaka, the general manager of Mori
Building’s accounting department.  ICICI Meetings  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets,  India ’s ICICI Bank
Ltd. is planning to meet bond investors in Tokyo on July 8,
according to a person familiar with the matter. The lender
registered to sell as much as 50 billion yen of debt on the
Tokyo Pro-Bond Market, according to a June 18 statement on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange’s website.  Tokyo Pro-Bond Market, which started in May 2011, permits
issues in any currency and allows documentation in English.
While Samurai bonds, which are also issued in yen by overseas
borrowers, give issuers access to a bigger market, they require
filing financial statements in Japanese with the nation’s
 Finance Ministry .  Samurais have handed investors a 0.55 percent return this
year, compared with a 0.58 percent gain for Japan’s corporate
bonds and a 0.25 percent loss for the nation’s sovereign notes,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. Company debt
worldwide has lost 1.69 percent.  The yen has tumbled 19 percent against the dollar since
Nov. 15 when Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called for “unlimited”
money printing by the central bank to end deflation. Elections a
month later elevated him to Japan’s highest office. It touched
103.74 per greenback in May, the weakest since October 2008, and
was at 100.66 as of 9:37 a.m. in Tokyo today.  Sovereign Rate  Japan’s benchmark 10-year yield fell 1/2 a basis point, or
0.005 percentage point, to 0.885 percent as of 9:37 a.m. in
Tokyo. The rate swung between a record low of 0.315 percent on
April 5, the day after the  Bank of Japan  unveiled its stimulus
plan, and as high as 1 percent in May.  Five-year  credit-default swaps  to insure Japan’s sovereign
notes rose 1 basis point to 76.5 basis points yesterday, ending
five consecutive days of declines, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Narrowing Spread  Mori Building has 132.3 billion yen of outstanding debt,
including 10 billion yen of bonds maturing in October, according
to Bloomberg data. The company last offered notes on Oct. 26,
raising 13 billion yen of 0.97 percent debt maturing October
2017.  The extra yield over the yen swap rate investors demand to
own the bonds dropped 20.5 basis points this year to 46.5 basis
points yesterday. The premium against the benchmark for Japanese
corporate debt dropped 16 to 18 in the period, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  “On the corporate level, recent improvements in the
company’s creditworthiness are a major factor,” said Masahiro Ishibashi, a Tokyo-based credit analyst at Daiwa Securities Co.
“On the macro level you have favorable conditions in the real
estate and financial markets.”  Sumitomo Realty  JCR in February kept Sumitomo Realty’s rating unchanged at
A, its sixth-highest investment-grade, even after the company
didn’t honor a promise to renew its 120 billion yen subordinated
loan in full. The Tokyo-based  developer , which owns Hotel Villa
Fontaine and the city’s Izumi Garden Tower, said at the time it
plans to refinance only half of the hybrid facility.  Japan ’s third-largest real estate company reported  total
equity  climbed 11 percent last fiscal year to 648.9 billion yen
as of March 31. That’s a 45 percent increase since the signing
of the loan in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sumitomo Realty’s 120 billion yen subordinated loan is
ranked BBB+ by JCR, or three levels above junk and two places
below the grade for the issuer. JCR counted 75 percent of that
amount toward the company’s equity, according to a filing at the
time of issue. Sumitomo Realty said it expects the contribution
of the new loan to be 25 percent.  Toshiba Corp., Showa Denko KK and Nisshin Steel Holdings
Co. also chose hybrid securities in the past five years.
Toshiba’s 180 billion yen of subordinated bonds are due for a
750 basis-point step up over the yen Libor in July 2014,
according to a JCR statement in May 2009.  “There are companies out there that may be influenced by
the experience at Mori Building and Sumitomo Realty,” SMBC
Nikko’s Nakanishi said. “We might see more issuers following
their example.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  