-- Greencore Sees U.S. Food Growth With Starbucks as U.K. Recovers
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-07-03T06:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/greencore-sees-u-s-food-growth-with-starbucks-as-u-k-recovers.html
Greencore (GNC)  Group Plc, the world’s
largest sandwich maker, is boosting sales with  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
in the U.S. even as prospects have improved in the U.K., Chief
Executive Officer Patrick Coveney said.  Both Starbucks and convenience store operator 7-Eleven
Inc., Greencore’s largest clients in the U.S., consider fresh-food performance “a big, big priority,” Coveney said
in an interview at the company’s Dublin headquarters.  Greencore increased supplies to Starbucks in the U.S. with
sandwiches and lunch items from April under a multi-year
contract, and expects its business in the country to be
profitable this year. In the U.K., the company’s biggest market,
there are signs of improving consumer sentiment and of growth
“building a little” in convenience foods, Coveney said.  Greencore has “built a very good franchise now in the U.K.
that delivers terrific returns on their capital base,” said
Cathal Kenny, an analyst at Dublin-based Davy, which raised its
recommendation on the stock to outperform in June after keeping
it neutral for years. “They have a tremendous opportunity now
to go and build something that is sustainable in the U.S.”  Revenue in the U.S. more than doubled in the first half
ended March 29 on acquisitions, Greencore reported. The company
has six manufacturing sites in the U.S. after  purchasing 
Marketfare Foods LLC and H.C. Schau & Son Inc. last year for
about $55 million.  Shares Advance  Greencore shares rose 1.5 percent to 139 pence in  London 
yesterday, taking the advance to 84 percent in 12 months and
giving the company a market value of 557.5 million pounds ($846
million).  Greencore supplies about 1,360 Starbucks stores, or 12
percent of the coffee chain’s U.S. stores, with sandwiches and
lunch items, according to a presentation in May. It supplies
about 20 percent of 7-Eleven’s U.S. convenience stores, or about
2,000 outlets, with ready meals.  “It will be a very long time before we would seek to have
genuine national coverage but we would like to have broader
coverage,” Coveney said. The company’s network in the country
has capacity to generate about $350 million in sales, and U.S.
revenue will probably be “a bit more than $200 million” this
financial year.  The company expects single-digit growth in comparable sales
in the U.K. in the second half, according to Coveney, after a
contraction of 1.3 percent in the first half.  The U.K. accounted for  about 87 percent  of Greencore’s 1.16
billion pounds of revenue in the last fiscal year.  Ready Meals  Declines in ready meals week on week in the U.K. have
“moderated pretty significantly” since the second quarter,
when they dropped by as much as 20 percent on some beef-based
products, Coveney said. Better weather since April and the
waning effect of a European horsemeat scandal have helped sales.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda supermarket chain in February
withdrew a beef Bolognese sauce supplied by Greencore in the
U.K. after detecting traces of horse DNA. Testing by Greencore
found no contamination in its supply chain, according to
Coveney, who said the company is now resupplying Asda.  Greencore’s first-half sales rose 0.9 percent to 573
million pounds as adjusted earnings per share climbed 11 percent
to 6.1 pence.  Full-year adjusted earnings per share will be 13.9 pence,
according to the  average estimate  of nine analysts.  The sandwich maker  acquired U.K. chilled-food group Uniq
Plc in 2011, after Greencore’s planned merger with Northern
Foods Plc collapsed following a rival bid from BH Acquisitions
Ltd. Potential takeover talks for Greencore itself with an
unidentified bidder concluded in 2011 without an acceptable
offer, the company said in that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  