-- Gross Caught in TIPS Trap Gundlach Sidestepped in Tumble
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-07-03T18:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/gross-caught-in-tips-trap-gundlach-sidestepped-in-tumble.html
On April 19, three weeks before he
called the end of the 30-year bull market in bonds,  Bill Gross 
said he was buying inflation-linked Treasuries, a bet that money
printing by the world’s central banks would push up consumer
prices.  While Treasuries subsequently fell as he had predicted, so
did  inflation expectations , amplifying rather than limiting
losses for Gross’s  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTRAX) , which had 12 percent
of its $289 billion in Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities
at the end of the first quarter. The world’s largest mutual fund
fell 4.7 percent in May and June, prompting $9.9 billion in
withdrawals last month, the most on record.  The losses highlight the difficulties Gross faces as he
steers Pacific Investment Management Co. through what’s arguably
the biggest market challenge for the $2 trillion bond-fund
manager since its inception in 1971. A premature bet against
Treasuries caused his flagship to trail peers in 2011, prompting
Gross to apologize to clients. With about 10 percent of the TIPS
market owned by Pimco, according to Morningstar Inc., his
success is tied in part to an asset class fellow bond manager
 Jeffrey Gundlach  has avoided.  “Unless inflation goes higher, then all you have with TIPS
is interest rate risk, just like every other Treasury,” said
Gundlach, the portfolio manager for the $39 billion  DoubleLine (DBLTX) 
Total Return Bond Fund. “It’s an asset class that is exposed to
investor surprise and disappointment.”  TIPS ‘Trap’  Gundlach, who called TIPS a “disaster” and a “trap”
during a webcast last week, lost 2.6 percent in the two months
through June and is down 0.3 percent so far this year in his
 main fund , beating 83 percent of peers. None of Gundlach’s funds
reported holding any TIPS as of March 31.  Gross didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for the Newport Beach,  California ,
firm, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE , didn’t
return calls and messages.  Gross has had between 9 percent to 12 percent of Pimco
Total Return’s net assets invested in TIPS since at least the
end of 2011, convinced that efforts by U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and other central bankers to stimulate
their economies will ultimately fuel inflation. The government
bonds provide protection against inflation by increasing in par
value with the U.S. Consumer Price Index.  Dalio Strategy  At the end of the first quarter, Pimco Total Return had
about 33 percent of its net assets invested in Treasuries,
including $52.9 billion of traditional or “nominal” bonds and
$34.3 billion of TIPS. The latter proved costly during the
second quarter, when TIPS swooned under muted inflation
expectations and sales by funds that lost money under a
leveraged investment strategy employed by money managers such as
Ray Dalio, known as risk-parity funds.  The TIPS held by the fund as of March 31 declined in value
by $3.9 billion during the second quarter, according to data
through June 28 compiled by Bloomberg. In contrast, the value of
the fund’s holdings in nominal Treasuries fell by about $1.9
billion, assuming the holdings were unchanged.  Gross made another bad bet on Treasuries almost 2 1/2 years
ago. In February 2011, he eliminated his allocation to
Treasuries, only to miss out on a rally in government bonds that
left Pimco Total Return trailing 70 percent of peers. Gross, in
a letter to clients at the time titled “Mea Culpa,” called
2011 a “stinker.” His fund lost an estimated $5 billion to
withdrawals that year, according to Morningstar.  Bernanke’s Comments  Pimco Total Return rebounded in 2012 to beat 95 percent of
peers and has  outperformed  93 percent of rivals over the past
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fund’s allocation to Treasuries, a category that also
includes futures, rose to 39 percent in April and then dipped to
37 percent in May, when Bernanke told Congress that the central
bank’s policy-setting board could begin to curtail quantitative
easing in “its next few meetings” if the Fed is confident
gains in the economy can be sustained. Bernanke expanded on his
comments last month, telling reporters on June 19 that the
central bank will probably taper its $85 billion bond buying
program later this year, as long as the economy performs in line
with Fed projections.  ‘Worst News’  While the  yield  on 10-year Treasuries soared as high as
2.66 percent on June 24, from a low of 1.61 percent on May 1,
yields on inflation-indexed debt climbed even faster and
further. As a result, the narrowing in the difference between
yields of nominal Treasuries and TIPS, known as the break-even
rate, showed that investors viewed inflation as less of a threat
in the short term and thus were cutting the price they would pay
for insurance against it, said Daniel Shackelford, a fixed-income portfolio manager at T. Rowe Price Group Inc. in
Baltimore.  “Inflation expectations haven’t budged after three or four
years of hyper-easing and now we are looking at an expectation
for a Fed that will become less accommodative,” said
Shackelford, who runs the $496 million T. Rowe Price Inflation
Protected Bond Fund. “It was sort of the worst news that the
TIPS market could receive.”  Shackelford’s fund lost 6.8 percent this year, trailing 76
percent of similarly managed funds. It beat 86 percent over
three years and 56 percent over five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Biggest Detractor  TIPS funds fell an average of 7.2 percent from the end of
April through June 28, more than double the 3.3 percent decline
in the Barclays US Aggregate Index, a fixed-income benchmark,
according to Michelle Canavan, a mutual-fund analyst at Chicago-based Morningstar Inc. who follows inflation-protected bond
funds.  At Pimco Total Return, TIPS were the largest detractor from
the performance during May, said Eric Jacobson, another
Morningstar analyst, even though the fund’s holdings in nominal
Treasuries were about 50 percent larger.  Pimco Total Return’s holdings in nominal Treasuries may
have helped limit the fund’s underperformance, because the debt
fell less than corporate, municipal and agency mortgage-backed
bonds. U.S. municipal securities have declined 1.36 percentage
points more than similar-duration Treasuries since April 30, and
corporate investment-grade bonds have lost 88 basis points more,
based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. A basis point
equals a hundredth of a percentage point.  Moving Prices  According to Jacobson, Pimco funds and accounts own about
$100 billion of inflation-linked bonds, most of that in TIPS.
The total market value of TIPS outstanding is $869 billion, not
including $111 billion that is held by the Fed, according to
Paul Wynn, the portfolio manager for the $837 million Western
Asset/Claymore Inflation-Linked Opportunities & Income Fund.  With such a large market share, it’s difficult for Gross
and other Pimco managers to meaningfully change their positions
without moving prices, said a former bond manager at the firm
who requested anonymity. As a result, Gross must accept short-term volatility in the fund as the price of making long-term
bets in the TIPS market, he said.  After TIPS tumbled following lower-than-average demand at
the Treasury’s five-year auction in April, Gross wrote in an
April 19 Twitter message that he was buying more inflation-protected debt. And in a June 6 interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers,” Gross said he continued to
expect that “trillions of dollars of check writing” by central
banks would spur enough inflation during the next three to five
years to give some “traction” for insurance against rising
prices “on the TIPS side.”  ‘Premature Tightening’  Jeremie Banet, a Pimco portfolio manager who specializes in
inflation-linked investments, said in an interview that the
contraction of the break-even rate shows that the market doesn’t
see the economic improvement that the Fed is citing as a basis
for tapering. If the market did see that the economy was
expanding, inflation expectations would rise, leading to a
higher break-even rate, Banet said.  “We think the reason interest rates are rising is because
people expect the Fed to be less accommodative,” not because
the economy is improving, Banet said in a telephone interview.
“If inflation is really as low as what is priced into the TIPS
market,” Banet said, the Fed “should be concerned about
premature tightening.”  The change to the Fed’s asset purchases that Bernanke
signaled by itself was too small to drive the decline in
financial markets that followed, said Wynn at Western Asset. His
closed-end fund has declined 7.5 percent this year through July
2, trailing 81 percent of peers.  Risk Parity  The market declines began with money-losing bets that
leveraged hedge funds made on the outcome of Japanese government
stimulus efforts and have snowballed because banks, faced with
higher capital requirements, are providing less liquidity when
volatility increases, according to Wynn.  “Fundamental to the price action in the last month-and-a-half is the leveraged investors unwinding,” Wynn said in a
telephone interview. “The TIPS market has been a casualty of
this environment.”  Within the TIPS market, much of the recent selling came
from risk-parity funds that follow an asset-allocation strategy
pioneered by Dalio, the founder of Bridgewater Associates LP in
Westport,  Connecticut , according to Wynn and four other managers
and dealers who trade inflation-linked debt.  These funds, which seek to diversify by the types of risk
they face under different economic environments, typically
devote 25 to 60 percent of the notional value of their assets to
inflation-linked bonds, including TIPS, said Tim McCusker, the
head of traditional research at NEPC LLC, a Cambridge,
Massachusetts, investment consultant to pension plans,
foundations and endowments.  Balancing Portfolios  While risk-parity strategies are designed to provide higher
returns in a variety of economic environments, they fare poorly
when there is a tightening of monetary policy or an expected
tightening, McCusker said. The $1.2 billion  AQR Risk Parity (AQRIX) 
Fund, run by Cliff Asness’ AQR Capital Management LLC, has
fallen 11 percent since the end of April, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Michael Mendelson, a portfolio manager for AQR’s risk-parity strategies, said in a telephone interview that some risk-parity managers sold TIPS last month to bring their portfolios
back into balance or to reduce their holdings. He also said that
the aggregate holdings of such traders in all types of global
inflation-linked bonds, not just TIPS, was only in the “mid-tens of billions” and therefore too small to drive the market’s
recent decline.  “Risk-parity investors are important TIPS investors, but
we are not that important,” Mendelson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  