-- Li Ning Seeks to Revive Brand With NBA Superstar Dwyane Wade
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-03T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/li-ning-seeks-to-revive-brand-with-nba-superstar-dwyane-wade.html
Li Ning Co. (2331) , the Chinese sportswear
company that posted an annual loss last year, is seeking to
boost its brand image in China by recruiting American basketball
superstar  Dwyane Wade .  “ Li Ning ’s products will be better known by consumers
after cooperation with Wade,” company founder and Executive
Chairman Li Ning said at a briefing in Beijing yesterday.  Wade, whose Miami Heat team won an NBA championship for a
second year, is helping to design shoes and clothing for Li
Ning. The company has 5.4 percent of China’s sportswear market,
according to data from Euromonitor International, lagging  Nike
Inc. (NKE)  and  Adidas AG (ADS) , which have 12 percent and 11 percent,
respectively.  The play of Chinese-American Jeremy Lin and former Houston
Rockets star Yao Ming and two decades of National Basketball
Association broadcasts have bolstered basketball’s popularity in
China, fueling viewership, apparel sales and demand for players
like Wade to endorse products in the world’s biggest market for
cars, phones and computers.  Li Ning, the largest China-based sportswear company by
revenue, reported a 1.98 billion yuan ($323 million) loss in
2012, its first since going public in 2004.  The manufacturer and retailer has hired executives from
Nike,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Procter & Gamble Co. to help move to a more
“retail oriented” business model from wholesale, after saying
on Jan. 25 it would raise as much as HK$1.87 billion ($241
million) in a sale of convertible securities to fund the effort.  Wade, who attended yesterday’s event in Beijing, opened his
speech in Mandarin by remarking on his return to China. The
basketball player has 3.4 million followers on Weibo, China’s
equivalent of Twitter.  Wade “really speaks to Chinese basketball fans,” said Kim Jin-Goon, vice chairman of Li Ning.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Penny Peng in Beijing at 
 ppeng18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  