-- India Rupee Approaches Record Low on Concern Outflow to Continue
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-03T11:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/india-rupee-approaches-record-low-on-concern-outflow-to-continue.html
The rupee weakened to within 0.9
percent of its all-time low on concern overseas investors will
pull more money from local assets, leaving the currency
vulnerable to a record current-account deficit.  The rupee slipped for a third day as investors waited for
data on U.S. jobless claims and payrolls due this week to gauge
when the Federal Reserve will begin paring its $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases. Overseas funds sold a net $7.1 billion
of Indian assets in June as Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
signaled policy makers could scale back asset buying if the U.S.
economy improves in line with forecasts.  “The outflows are a concern, we are seeing demand for
dollars from foreign banks,” said Naveen Raghuvanshi, a trader
at  Development Credit Bank Ltd. (DEVB)  in Mumbai. “The Reserve Bank of
India may intervene to support the rupee.”  The currency weakened 0.9 percent to 60.2200 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It fell to an unprecedented 60.7650 on June 26. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the
exchange rate used to price options, rose 68 basis points, or
0.68 percentage point, to 12.92 percent.  Foreign-Currency Exposure  The RBI yesterday published  draft guidelines  on how banks
should monitor companies’ unhedged foreign-currency exposure and
include this risk in lending costs. The monetary authority has
sought feedback on the proposals by Aug. 2, according to a
statement on its website.  Data today from the ADP Research Institute may indicate
U.S. companies added 160,000 jobs in June, before the Labor
Department’s monthly payrolls report at the end of the week that
is forecast to show an increase of 165,000 positions.  The shortfall in  India ’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade, widened to a record 4.8 percent of gross
domestic product in the year ended March 31, official data show.
The government will need more than $75 billion to fund the gap
in the 12 months through March 2014, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram estimates.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 1.1 percent to
61.27 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts dropped 1 percent to 61.35.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  