-- India Extends Food-for-Poor Program as Singh Eyes Poll Advantage
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-07-03T18:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/india-extends-food-for-poor-program-as-singh-eyes-poll-advantage.html
India’s cabinet enacted proposals to
expand the provision of cheap food to the poor, approving a
rarely used executive ordinance to pursue a central plank of the
government’s re-election strategy.  Deemed a vote winner ahead of an election scheduled for
early 2014, passage of the Food Security Bill in parliament
stalled in the last session as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
opponents protested alleged corruption in his administration,
paralyzing proceedings in the house. The ordinance will be sent
to President  Pranab Mukherjee  for his assent, Food Minister K.V. Thomas told reporters in New Delhi yesterday.  With a national ballot due before the end of May, Singh and
his ruling Congress party are seeking to build on vows to spread
the benefits of growth to the more than 800 million Indians the
World Bank estimates live on less than $2 a day.  Congress and its chief rival, the  Bharatiya Janata Party ,
are also trying to woo regional parties as opinion polls predict
neither will lead their coalitions to a clear victory at the
polls. A voter survey for the CNN-IBN television channel in May
found that 61 percent thought Singh should be replaced as prime
minister. About 67 percent said his government has lost
credibility in the face of a series of graft scandals and rising
prices.  The ordinance will lapse if  parliament  fails to support the
measure in a vote within six weeks of the opening of its next
session -- scheduled for late July. The government last used an
ordinance to tighten its laws on sexual assault in the aftermath
of a brutal gang rape in the capital New Delhi.  Parliament Debate  The BJP says that while the party supports the food
security bill in principle, it should be debated in parliament.  “The government is rushing with the bill as they are
facing pressure now that their term” is approaching its final
few months, said Dipa Sinha, an activist at the Right to Food
Campaign, an advocacy group. Provisions to protect farmers’
livelihoods and ensure adequate production and distribution of
food need to be improved, she said.  Under the food bill, 67 percent of  India ’s 1.2 billion
people may be entitled to buy wheat, rice and coarse grains at
subsidized rates. The government may spend about 1.25 trillion
rupees ($20.7 billion) on food subsidy in the financial year
ending March 31, 2014. Subsidies have helped widen the nation’s
fiscal deficit amid the weakest economic growth in a decade.  The current system for distributing subsidized food and
fuel to the poor is riddled with theft and inefficiency. Only 41
percent of the food set aside for feeding the poor reached
households in 2005, according to a World Bank study commissioned
by the government and released last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  