-- Indonesian Outflows Spur Pressure for More Tightening: Economy
-- B y   N e i l   C h a t t e r j e e   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-07-04T02:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/indonesian-outflows-spur-pressure-for-further-policy-tightening.html
Indonesia ’s policy makers delivered
the country’s first benchmark interest-rate increase since 2011
and first fuel-price boost in five years in June. Capital
outflows since then have spurred pressure for further moves.  The rupiah remains among the worst performers in  Asia  in
the past year, falling about 0.6 percent after Indonesia on June
13 became the region’s first major economy to raise rates this
year. Global funds sold 2.5 trillion rupiah ($250 million) of
local-currency government bond  holdings  in the week after the
June 22 fuel adjustment, aimed at containing a current-account
deficit that has hurt the currency.  “The mood among investors is still to wait and see,” said
Eric Alexander Sugandi, a  Standard Chartered  Plc economist in
Jakarta. “Further rate increases will help restore market
confidence and manage accelerating inflation, which affects the
real rate of return on investing in Indonesia.”  The finance minister signaled yesterday he wouldn’t be too
concerned with higher rates, after the central bank pledged to
strengthen its policy mix against inflation at the July 11
meeting. Costlier fuel and monetary tightening could push full-year expansion below 6 percent for the  first time  since 2009,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG, underscoring President
 Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s failure to wean the economy off
subsidies and fix infrastructure gaps that spur price pressures.  “There was a time window in which the government could
ride on the positive momentum and push through more concrete
measures to take growth to the next level beyond 7 percent, but
it’s now gone,” said Wellian Wiranto, an investment strategist
at the wealth management unit of Barclays Plc in  Singapore .  Bonds Fall  Indonesia’s bonds declined yesterday, pushing the 10-year
yield to the highest level since September 2011, while stocks
sank the most in about two weeks on concern the central bank
will raise borrowing costs. The rupiah declined 0.2 percent this
week to 9,940 per dollar as of 8:26 a.m. in Jakarta, prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg show.  A recovery in the currency has hitherto been thwarted by
the prospect of a scaling back in U.S. monetary stimulus, which
spurred outflows from  emerging markets  in recent weeks. The
country will need to undertake even harder measures to improve
investor confidence, including further fuel subsidy cuts and
boosting infrastructure spending, according to Royal Bank of
 Scotland  Group Plc.  ‘More Proactive’  Elsewhere around the world, some policy makers still face
pressure to support their economies.  Australia , which lowered
borrowing costs by 2 percentage points between November 2011 and
May, reported a drop in May building approvals today. The
 European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  are forecast to
keep borrowing costs unchanged later today.  Bank Indonesia  stands ready to intervene in markets if
needed, Peter Jacobs, its director of communications, said in an
interview with Bloomberg TV Indonesia yesterday. The central
bank’s policy options can include interest-rate and macro-prudential measures, he said. The authority released a rare
statement after its July 2 weekly board meeting citing plans to
boost the policy mix against accelerating inflation at the next
monthly board meeting.  “Bank Indonesia wants to be more preemptive, more
proactive instead of re-active,” said  Destry Damayanti , chief
economist at PT Bank Mandiri. The comments foreshadow another
increase in the deposit facility rate, or Fasbi, as slowing
growth prevents a change in the benchmark  reference rate  at this
month’s policy review, she said.  Standard Chartered’s Sugandi predicts the central bank will
raise its benchmark rate to 6.5 percent by year-end from 6
percent currently, forecasting increases in July and August.  The  World Bank  cut its 2013 forecast for Indonesian growth
to 5.9 percent this month, saying accelerating inflation could
hurt domestic demand as exports and investment cool. The
increase in subsidized fuel prices, combined with monetary
policy tightening, will probably hit already weakening
investment growth and drag economic expansion to 5.7 percent in
2013, according to Credit Suisse.  No Blow  Finance Minister Chatib Basri said yesterday he doesn’t
expect any further rate increase to deal a blow to growth.
Consumption accounts for a bigger share of gross domestic
product than investment, and if authorities can manage inflation,
purchasing power would remain strong, he said.  “So long as the rupiah is under pressure, they will crank
up the dial,” Wiranto said. “The recent emerging-markets sell-off can be a positive thing in that it has shaken the policy
makers out of their complacency to some extent.”  The onus to counter the slumping currency may fall on the
central bank as an election due next year hinders another fuel-price increase. While Yudhoyono’s administration has said it’s
studying a new price structure for fuel subsidies, protests
before last month’s fuel-policy adjustment underscore the
political impediments to subsidy cuts in a nation where riots
spurred by soaring living costs helped oust the dictator,
Suharto.  Aiding Rupiah  “Bank Indonesia’s latest move to hike rates before the
fuel-price hike is another signal that they’re very forward
looking, which I think should eventually increase the
credibility of the central bank and aid the rupiah,” said
 Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a regional economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland.  The central bank is grappling with pressure to act in the
midst of a leadership revamp that began with Agus Martowardojo
replacing  Darmin Nasution  as governor in May. A parliamentary
committee assessed three candidates for a vacancy on the central
bank’s policy board this week and is due to announce its choice
for deputy governor on July 8.  In the days leading up to the June benchmark rate increase,
the central bank signaled it was preparing to tighten policy.
Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said late May that
the authority was “moving toward a tightening bias.” At a June
11 board meeting, it decided to raise the Fasbi rate to 4.25
percent.  “If this marks the turning of a new leaf, of something
fairly fundamental, then clearly the  currency markets  will sit
up and take notice,”  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist at
Credit Suisse, said after last month’s moves. “Obviously the
market will be looking for” more tightening if the pressure
remains, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Chatterjee in Singapore at 
 nchatterjee1@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  