-- Indonesia Quake Buries Children Under Mosque as Toll Rises to 24
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-07-03T09:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/indonesia-quake-buries-children-under-mosque-as-toll-rises-to-24.html
Indonesian officials said the death
toll from a 6.2-magnitude earthquake that struck Aceh province
rose to 24 as they began removing the bodies of as many as 20
children trapped under the rubble of a collapsed mosque.  Landslides caused by yesterday’s temblor cut off two of the
three roads leading to Aceh’s Blang Mancung district, slowing
rescue efforts, said Ariyanto Ujang, secretary to the Red Cross
office in Aceh Tengah regency. At least 140 people were injured
and 1,500 buildings damaged in Aceh Tengah, the nation’s
disaster management agency said today.  “There’s one mosque that’s been flattened,” Ujang said by
telephone. “We estimate that 20 children were in that mosque.
So far we’ve retrieved the bodies of two.”  Indonesia ’s 18,000 islands are prone to quakes because the
nation sits along the  Pacific Ocean ’s “ring of fire” zone of
active volcanoes and tectonic faults. About 170,000 people died
or went missing in Aceh after a 9.1-magnitude quake and ensuing
tsunami struck the province in 2004. In April last year, an 8.6-magnitude quake in Aceh prompted coastal residents around the
Indian ocean to flee to higher ground before  tsunami warnings 
were lifted.  Yesterday’s temblor struck 35 kilometers (22 miles)
southwest of Bener Meriah regency at a depth of 10 kilometers,
according to the disaster agency.  At least 14 people died in Bener Meriah and 10 in Aceh
Tengah, and the number of injured in the two areas rose to 249.
Most of the fatalities were caused by collapsing buildings,
Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, a spokesman at the disaster management
agency, said at a media briefing today.  An airforce Colibri helicopter is being used to search for
victims in areas bordering Bener Meriah and Aceh Tengah, Nugroho
said, adding that about 1,500 people who had been fighting
forest fires in Riau province may also be deployed to help
search for survivors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  