-- Lions Drop O’Driscoll Among Six Changes for Rugby Decider
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-03T07:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/lions-name-team-for-series-deciding-rugby-test-against-australia.html
The British and Irish Lions dropped
former captain Brian O’Driscoll for this week’s series-deciding
rugby Test against  Australia  and picked Alun Wyn Jones to lead
the combined team in Sydney.  Jones takes over as skipper from the injured Sam Warburton
in a team featuring six starting changes from the Lions’ 16-15
loss in the second Test. Center Jamie Roberts and prop Alex
Corbisiero return from injury, while forwards Richard Hibbard,
Sean O’Brien and Toby Faletau, and scrum-half Mike Phillips,
were included in a lineup featuring 10 Welshmen.  Ireland center O’Driscoll, the only survivor from the
Lions’ 2001 tour of Australia, was left out of the 23-man squad
for the July 6 match in Sydney as they seek their first series
win in 16 years. Head coach Warren Gatland said the presence of
the 6-foot-4, 242-pound Roberts “offered us something more.”  “It all comes down to Saturday,” Gatland said on the
team’s website. “We know we can leave nothing in the tank.
Picking this team was not easy and ultimately, with several
players available after recovering from injury, the head
overruled the heart in many selection decisions.”  O’Driscoll, 34, had been seen as Warburton’s likely
replacement as captain, having led the Lions on seven previous
occasions and taken over as skipper when Warburton got injured
in Melbourne four days ago. Roberts’s inclusion at inside center
moved Jonathan Davies out one position to No. 13, where
O’Driscoll had started the first two Tests.  ‘Totally Gutted’  “Brian was disappointed, but he appreciated that he was
spoken to before the announcement,” Gatland added in televised
comments. “It’s the first time that any coach has had that
decision with him in 15 years of rugby. It’s not easy for that
to be the first time, but he’s still going to be very important
for us for the next 72 hours.”  O’Driscoll, who was handed his Test debut by Gatland in
1999 when the New Zealander was coach of Ireland, posted on
Twitter that he was “totally gutted” at being omitted.  “All efforts go into preparing the boys to see it
through,” he added.  O’Brien came in for Warburton at openside flanker, while
Corbisiero’s return after missing the second Test because of a
calf injury pushed Mako Vunipola onto the bench.  Hibbard will start at hooker with Tom Youngs named among
the replacements as Faletau was preferred at No. 8 to Jamie
Heaslip, who was left out of the squad. Phillips recovered from
a knee injury to take over from Ben Youngs at scrum-half.  Bench Spots  In further changes among the replacements, flanker Justin
Tipuric took O’Brien’s bench spot, lock Richie Gray came in for
Tom Croft and Manu Tuilagi replaced Alex Cuthbert.  The Lions, who won the June 22 opener in Brisbane 23-21,
last secured a Test series triumph in South Africa in 1997.  The Wallabies, who rallied for a 2-1 victory when the teams
met 12 years ago, are scheduled to announce their lineup
tomorrow. Back-row forward Ben McCalman, who last played for
Australia in December 2011, will be named in the matchday squad,
a team spokesman said today.  McCalman, who wasn’t picked in the original 25-man roster
six weeks ago and got called up as injury cover, said he’s
providing backup at blind-side flanker and No. 8. He’s played
across all three back-row positions for the Wallabies.  “It’s been a very enjoyable past four weeks helping the
boys prepare but this week I get the opportunity to make an
impact on game day,” McCalman told reporters.  Smith’s Return  While O’Driscoll missed out on selection for the decider,
Wallabies flanker George Smith, who featured against the Lions
in all three Tests in 2001, will start at openside flanker,
newspapers including the Sydney Morning Herald reported.  Smith, 32, played his most recent Test for the Wallabies
more than 3 1/2 years ago. He quit international rugby in 2010,
though was recalled to the national team after impressing during
a loan spell with the ACT Brumbies in this year’s Super Rugby
competition.  BRITISH AND IRISH LIONS: Leigh Halfpenny, Tommy Bowe,
Jonathan Davies, Jamie Roberts, George North, Jonathan Sexton,
Mike Phillips, Toby Faletau, Sean O’Brien, Dan Lydiate, Geoff
Parling, Alun Wyn Jones (captain), Adam Jones, Richard Hibbard,
Alex Corbisiero.  Replacements: Tom Youngs, Mako Vunipola, Dan Cole, Richie
Gray, Justin Tipuric, Conor Murray, Owen Farrell, Manu Tuilagi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  