-- Israel’s Top Authors Protest Plans to Evict Cave Dwellers
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-07-03T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/israel-s-top-authors-protest-plans-to-evict-cave-dwellers.html
Palestinian cave dwellers in the  West
Bank  won support from an unexpected corner this week when Amos Oz and other Israeli writers protested against Israeli
government plans to evict them.  “In a reality of ongoing occupation, of solid cynicism and
meanness, each and every one of us bears the moral obligation to
try and relieve the suffering, do something to bend back the
occupations’ giant, cruel hand,” Oz,  David Grossman , A.B.
Yehoshua, Etgar Keret and 18 others wrote in a petition.  The plea was posted on the website of the Association for
 Civil Rights  in Israel, which petitioned the  High Court  of
Justice in January against the eviction of about 1,000
Palestinians living in eight rural villages in an area
designated as a military firing zone.  There is a tradition of cave dwelling by Palestinians in 
the West Bank area near Hebron. Some set up tents near caves. 
They herd goats and sheep and grow small crops on the land, 
using wooden plows, and rely on rainwater.  The court has issued a temporary injunction prohibiting the
forced removal of the families. It is holding its next hearing
on July 15. The  Defense Ministry  said in a statement that it has
proposed a compromise that would allow some of the cave dwellers
to remain in the area while others would continue to work the
land when the army wasn’t using it for training.  The ministry said the disputed area in the West Bank, near
the city of Hebron, was declared a closed military zone in the
1970s and designated as an area under Israeli jurisdiction in
the 1993 Oslo peace accords.  Human Rights  A second petition on the association’s  website , signed by
Israeli law professors, said the ejection of families from lands
“where they have been retaining a unique way of life for many
generations, is a harsh violation of their  human rights  and of
international humanitarian law.”  Israeli authors such as Oz and Grossman who oppose the
occupation of lands the Palestinians want for a state, routinely
give speeches at rallies, sign petitions and write opinion
columns. For many Israelis, they are secular spiritual leaders,
although they don’t necessarily see themselves as such.  On June 26, Grossman wrote an editorial in the daily
Haaretz protesting a new highway meant to link Jewish
settlements in the West Bank to  Jerusalem . The road will bisect
the Palestinian village of Beit Safafa, cutting families off
from each other, Grossman said.  “The injustice and malice of it cry out,” wrote the author,
who lost a son during  Israel ’s 2006 fighting in Lebanon.  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris culture
and  George Walden  on books.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  