-- Live From New York, Saturday Night Live Intern Sues NBC
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-07-03T22:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/live-from-new-york-saturday-night-live-intern-sues-nbc.html
NBCUniversal was sued in New York by
two former interns who claim they should have been paid for
their work.  Monet Eliastam, a former Saturday Night Live intern, and
former MSNBC intern Jesse Moore sued NBC in federal court in
 Manhattan  today claiming unpaid wages. They’re seeking to
represent a class of interns who worked for NBC in New York
since July 3, 2007.  “A key part of NBCUniversal’s success are the hundreds of
unpaid or underpaid interns who work for it as production
assistants, researchers, and delivery-people, but receive no or
very little compensation for their work,” Eliastam and Moore
said in their complaint.  Last month, a federal judge in New York ruled that
moviemaker Fox Searchlight Pictures Inc. violated labor laws by
not paying two of its interns. Cases have also been brought
against Hearst Corp., Conde Nast Publications and the Public
Broadcasting Service’s Charlie Rose Show.  Eliastam said she worked at least 25 hours a week for
Saturday Night Live, NBC’s 37-year-old comedy show, completing
paperwork for extras, running errands, guarding the set and
processing petty cash envelopes. Moore worked 24 or more hours a
week at  MSNBC , the cable news channel, answering phones, taking
guests to get makeup and to the set and arranging travel for
correspondents and guests.  Allyson Federbush, a spokeswoman for NBCUniversal, didn’t
immediately respond to a voice-mail message after regular
business hours seeking comment the lawsuit.  The case is Moore v. NBCUniversal, 13-cv-04634, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  