-- Joyce Leaving Knight After Steering Firm From Meltdown to Merger
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-07-03T15:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/joyce-leaving-knight-after-steering-firm-from-meltdown-to-merger.html
Thomas Joyce, who built Knight
Capital Group Inc. into one of the biggest U.S. market making
firms only to see it driven to the brink of bankruptcy and then
into a suitor’s arms, is leaving the company.  KCG Holdings Inc. (KCG) , the company created when Getco LLC
completed the acquisition of Knight this week, announced the
resignation in an e-mailed statement. Joyce had been executive
chairman. KCG named Stephen Schuler, a Getco founder, as non-executive chairman, according to the statement.  While Joyce steered Knight through a decade of growth in
which revenue more than doubled, he will also be remembered for
being chief executive officer when a computer malfunction caused
the company to lose more than $450 million on a single day in
August through erroneous trades. The Harvard College graduate
was able to keep the firm out of insolvency by arranging a cash
bailout a week later and in December sold Knight to Getco LLC in
a deal valued at about $1.4 billion.  “He did a fabulous job,” said Buzzy Geduld, chief
executive officer of Cougar Trading in  New York , who worked with
Joyce when they were both at Merrill Lynch. “He was forced to
do a deal in 48 hours or so and he navigated that in a wonderful
way and a professional way. The doors opened and the company
stayed in business.”  Knight’s computers flooded markets with unintended trades
on Aug. 1, 2012, sending dozens of stocks into spasms. The fault
caused shares to swing as much as 151 percent and left the firm
with $450 million trading loss that would have sent it into
bankruptcy hadn’t a group of Wall Street firms bought a
commensurate amount of convertible securities a week later.  Technology Mishaps  “Technology breaks,” Joyce said in an Aug. 2 interview.
“It ain’t good. We don’t look forward to it.”  Getco put its chief executive officer,  Daniel Coleman , in
charge of the combined firm. A government filing in December
showed Joyce was poised to collect a $7.5 million retention
payment that would come due when Getco, the Chicago-based high-frequency trading firm, completed the deal. An employment
contract was scheduled to end when the acquisition was finalized
or the last day of 2014, whichever is sooner, the filing said.  The takeover by Getco ended the 17-year independence of
 Jersey City , New Jersey-based Knight, a company propelled by the
explosion in electronic trading in American stock markets. While
joining with Getco preserved Knight’s listing and expanded its
reach, both companies are contending with U.S. stock trading
that has contracted for three straight years.  Boosting Profits  Knight hired Joyce, 58, just as regulations that had
concentrated trading in  U.S. stocks  on the biggest venues were
changing to promote competition. Joyce boosted profit and sales
by expanding the market-making business and pushing it toward
electronic trading, relying on computers that could execute
transactions more cheaply than humans on the floor of the 220-year-old Big Board.  Knight was founded in 1995 and grew during the bull market
of the late 1990s into one of the biggest traders of technology
stocks. It hired Joyce in May 2002 after annual revenue plunged
46 percent during the prior year. It had 1,423 employees at the
end of 2011, according to a  regulatory filing , growing through
more than 15 mergers and acquisitions since 2000.  Joyce expanded the firm’s  market-making  business and taking
advantage of regulations that spread trading across more than 50
venues including electronic communications networks and dark
pools. Revenue reached a record $1.36 billion in 2011, more than
doubling in nine years, while earnings increased to $115.6
million.  Massachusetts Native  Joyce, known as TJ, grew up in Weymouth,  Massachusetts ,
where his father worked as a lineman at Boston Edison, and his
mother was a homemaker. He graduated from  Harvard College  in
1977 with a degree in economics. At Harvard, he was captain of
the baseball team and a linebacker in football, earning him
induction into the college’s athletic hall of fame.  He serves on the board of directors of  Special Olympics  of
 Connecticut  and Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation. He joined
the Ronald McDonald House New York board of directors in October
2010, according to Knight’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  