-- JPMorgan Internal Probe Cleared Hannam of Market Abuse, He Says
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-07-03T15:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/jpmorgan-internal-probe-cleared-hannam-of-market-abuse-he-says.html
Ian Hannam, formerly one of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s top merger advisers, said the bank cleared him in
an internal investigation before the U.K. finance regulator
fined him for disclosing inside information.  “JPMorgan believed that I had not done market abuse,”
Hannam testified at a London court today, where he is fighting
the 450,000-pound ($687,000) fine. “They carried out this very
serious investigation and I assure you that if they had found I
had” broken any regulatory rules, “I would not have been an
employee there.”  Two e-mail messages form the basis of a proposed civil
market-abuse fine against Hannam by the U.K. Financial Conduct
Authority, which considers the content insider information.
Hannam, formerly JPMorgan’s global chairman of equity capital
markets, said the notes were in the “best interest” of his
client,  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL) , and is challenging the sanction at a
court hearing at the Upper Tribunal in London that started
yesterday.  Hannam, who resigned from the New York-based bank after the
fine, is one of the highest-profile finance workers the
regulator has targeted. Hannam was among the bankers advising
Xstrata Plc before it was acquired by  Glencore International
Plc. (GLEN)   “I particularly enjoyed working for JPMorgan,” Hannam
said. “I would probably still be at JPMorgan.”  Hannam, Heritage CEO Tony Buckingham and Chief Financial
Officer Paul Atherton are scheduled to testify at the trial,
which could last as long as two weeks.  Hannam, a former soldier, graduated from  Imperial College
London  and  London Business School , and trained at  Salomon
Brothers . In 1992, he joined Robert Fleming & Co., which was
bought by Chase Manhattan in 2000. Four years later, he helped
to set up JPMorgan’s joint venture with London-based Cazenove
Group Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  