-- Kerry Claims Progress Without Wins From Global Travel
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-07-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/kerry-claims-progress-without-wins-from-global-travel.html
By the time Secretary of State John Kerry neared the end of a 12-day tour of the Middle East and
Asia, he’d claimed progress on three of the most vexing foreign
policy issues facing the U.S. without tangible signs of success
on any of them.  Kerry, who was due back in the U.S. today, said he’s
bolstered international opposition to North Korea’s nuclear
program, won agreement with Russia for an eventual peace
conference on the Syrian war and made headway in bringing
Israelis and Palestinians to the negotiating table for the first
time in almost three years.  “I know progress when I see it, and we are making
progress,” Kerry said in Tel Aviv after concluding three days
and nights of almost-sleepless shuttle diplomacy between  Israel 
and Jordan.  In five months on the job, the former Democratic senator
who headed the Senate Foreign Relations Committee has been
setting ambitious, if amorphous, goals on big issues. In logging
about 22,500 miles (36,200 kilometers) on this trip, he offered
mostly aspirational aims while steadfastly refusing to set any
time lines. His biggest investment of time and prestige was in
the stalled Mideast peace process, as he held three meetings
each with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas.  “The problem with Kerry’s approach right now is that he is
more invested in these negotiations than they are,” Aaron David Miller, vice president of the Wilson Center, a Washington policy
group, said in an interview. “That’s a very bad place for the
negotiator to be.”  North Korea  On North Korea, Kerry used the annual ministerial meeting
of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in Brunei to shore
up commitments by  China ,  Japan  and South Korea to oppose the
Pyongyang regime’s nuclear-weapons program.  “All four of us are absolutely united and absolutely firm
in our insistence that the future with respect to North Korea
must include denuclearization,” he said.  He didn’t outline any new steps that the countries are
taking and didn’t suggest North Korea was showing signs of a
change in course.  On  Syria , Kerry sought to shift the debate away from how
much the U.S. should do to aid the rebels after President  Barack
Obama  approved sending them small arms rather than heavier
weaponry to battle the Bashar al-Assad regime’s tanks and
aircraft.  “I’m not at liberty and I’m not free to talk about”
specific weapons, Kerry said in Doha, Qatar. He met there with
foreign ministers from countries including Saudi Arabia,  Egypt ,
 France  and  Germany . They adopted a joint statement allowing
“each country in its own way” to provide assistance.  Syria Conference  Instead, Kerry said yesterday at a press conference in
Brunei that he’d had a “very in-depth conversation” with
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and “made progress” on
preparations for a peace conference aimed at ending the two-year-old civil war that has claimed more than 93,000 lives.  Kerry said the conference should “happen sooner rather
than later” while indicating it will probably have to wait
until September. The U.S. and  Russia  already have a meeting
scheduled in July on other matters and “August is very
difficult for Europeans and others,” Kerry said, in what may
have been a reference to vacation schedules.  When Kerry and Lavrov committed in May to jointly press for
Syrian peace negotiations, the initial goal was to schedule
talks by the end of that month.  Climate Change  At a stop in India last week, Kerry pushed for greater
cooperation to curb greenhouse-gas emissions that contribute to
global warming.  “Today we must recognize the science of climate change is
screaming at us for action,” Kerry said in a speech in New
Delhi. “Working together, the United States and  India  can make
this leap and it will be to our benefit and the world’s.”  Left unsaid was whether India had agreed to any new steps
on climate change as it tries to grow its economy.  Most of all, Kerry has thrown himself into the Middle East
peace process, even as Syria’s civil war, political unrest in
Egypt and  Iran ’s nuclear program all threaten to overtake his
agenda.  On Kerry’s fifth trip to the region in as many months, two
days of planned talks became three as he said he saw signs of
progress. The change required canceling a planned visit to Abu
Dhabi and curtailing time spent in Brunei.  What emerged was a promise by Kerry that a deal was
“within reach.” In the only tangible sign, Kerry said he was
leaving some of his staff in the region to work on it.  Talking Talks  Caution in disclosing results so far is appropriate because
“they’re negotiations about the basis for talks -- talks about
talks about talks,” said Hussein Ibish, a senior fellow with
the American Task Force on  Palestine , a Washington-based group
that advocates a peaceful solution to the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict.  “When you start at the point we managed to reach over the
last few years, proceeding cautiously has merit,” he said in an
interview. “If you start revealing what the parties are willing
to give up, you put politicians into a defensive crouch.”  Miller, a former U.S. envoy to the Middle East, said
there’s a “reasonable chance that Kerry will succeed in
resuming negotiations and produce a package of bells and
whistles, sweeteners designed to keep the parties at the
table.” These would include “economic assistance, prisoner
releases, security guarantees for Israel,” he said.  For now, Miller said, “This is Kerry’s peace process
because Obama doesn’t own it, and neither does Netanyahu or
Abbas.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Bandar Seri Begawan at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  