-- Nagel Says Yuan Has Potential to Become Global Reserve Currency
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-07-03T12:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/nagel-says-yuan-has-potential-to-become-global-reserve-currency.html
Bundesbank board member Joachim Nagel
said the Chinese  yuan  may become an international reserve
currency and that  Frankfurt  is trying to establish itself as the
trading center in Europe.  “Although international use of  renminbi  does not reflect
 China ’s economic prowess at present, with its increasing
convertibility, the currency has the potential to become one of
the future global reserve currencies,” Nagel said at a
conference in Frankfurt today, referring to another term for the
yuan. “Given China’s growing economic importance, the
internationalization of the renminbi seems long overdue.”  China’s currency has increased its prominence, a report by
the European Central Bank showed yesterday. Between 2010 and the
end of 2012, the share of the nation’s trade in goods settled in
yuan increased to nearly 10 percent from almost zero. Still,
less than 1 percent of all transactions worldwide are currently
settled in yuan, Nagel said.  China has promoted its currency internationally since 2009
and last month signed a three-year swap agreement for 200
billion yuan ($32.6 billion) with the Bank of England to foster
trading in  London . The European Central Bank, based in Germany’s
financial capital, may obtain a deal valued at four times that
amount, according to lobby group Frankfurt Main Finance. Almost
80 percent of offshore yuan trading is currently settled in Hong
Kong.  Offshore Market  “The unique separation of the onshore and offshore
currency market, in particular, will facilitate the transition
from a currency purely intended for trade to an investment, and
potentially, a reserve currency,” Nagel said. “Because of the
capital controls still in place, the renminbi is currently in
transition from being a pure trading currency to being an
investment currency. While both inward and outward direct
investment is now possible, portfolio investments will continue
to be regulated.”  Nagel said the Bundesbank welcomes Chinese initiatives
toward the free movement of capital. The country is  Germany ’s
third-biggest trading partner.  “The high level of interaction between China’s and
Germany’s real economies highlights the necessity for a more
active renminbi trade, perhaps even using Germany as a hub,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  