-- Nasdaq Asks Judge to Dismiss Suit Over Facebook IPO Role
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-07-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/nasdaq-asks-judge-to-dismiss-suit-over-facebook-ipo-role.html
Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. asked a judge
to throw out lawsuits against it by investors and traders over
its role in Facebook Inc.’s May 2012 initial public offering.  Nasdaq asked U.S. District Judge Robert Sweet in Manhattan
to dismiss a group of consolidated class actions claiming it
violated securities laws and mishandled the first day of public
trading in Facebook, the  world’s biggest  social network. Nasdaq
claimed its legal status as a self-regulatory organization, or
SRO, shields it from being sued for actions taken as part of its
regulatory responsibilities.  “SRO immunity protects Nasdaq from liability for claims
relating to its allegedly negligent handling of the commencement
of trading in Facebook stock and alleged misrepresentations
because all of those claims arise out of Nasdaq’s regulatory
functions,” the exchange said in a court filing yesterday.  Nasdaq also argued that the plaintiffs failed to state a
sufficient legal claim that it was negligent or that it violated
securities laws.  The plaintiffs suing Nasdaq seek to hold it responsible for
technical and other trading-related errors that created market
uncertainty and caused losses to traders and  investors  following
the start of trading.  SEC Settlement  In May, Nasdaq agreed to pay $10 million to settle claims
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that it broke
securities laws in its handling of the  Facebook IPO . The SEC
cited Nasdaq for “poor systems and decision-making.” In the
settlement, Nasdaq neither admitted nor denied fault.  Also in May, Facebook and a group of banks that underwrote
the Menlo Park, California-based company’s IPO, including  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
asked Sweet to dismiss claims against them growing out of the
stock offering.  Vincent Cappucci, a lawyer for the plaintiffs suing Nasdaq,
didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message yesterday after
regular business hours seeking comment on the motion to dismiss
the case.  Facebook fell 1.6 percent to $24.41 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading yesterday in  New York . The shares have fallen 36 percent
from the $38 IPO price.  The case is In Re  Facebook Inc. (FB)  IPO Securities and
Derivative Litigation, 12-md-02389, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  