-- NBCUniversal Takes ‘Royal Pains’ Mobile on USA Now TV App
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-07-03T18:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/nbc-universal-offers-usa-network-online-for-pay-tv-users.html
NBCUniversal’s USA Network, the most-watched channel on cable TV, is making original programs such as
“Royal Pains” and “Burn Notice” available to subscribers on
smartphones and tablets.  The shows can be seen online, on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and on
other mobile devices using the USA Now app the day after they
air on television,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal said today in an
e-mailed statement. The company also plans to introduce similar
applications for its other entertainment channels.  “It’s finally coming together this year,” Matt Bond,
executive vice president of content distribution, said in a
phone interview. “We’re beginning to see widespread adoption in
the industry and by viewers.”  NBCUniversal is joining competitors in making more of its
content available to users on the move, as growth in online
video ad sales outpaces those on network TV.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s
HBO channel began streaming shows in 2010, while Walt Disney
Co.’s sports channel ESPN offered apps in 2011. In May, Disney
introduced an app for its ABC network and 21st Century Fox Inc.
plans to offer Fox Now and FX Now apps for the fall TV season.  Episodes watched on the USA Network app during the first
three days can contain the same commercials as the version that
aired on television, potentially allowing the views to be
counted in Nielsen’s ratings, Linda Yaccarino, president of
NBCUniversal advertising sales, said in a phone interview.  App Sponsorships  After the three-day period, NBCUniversal can insert
different ads, Yaccarino said. The company is selling
sponsorships of the apps, which will be announced in September,
closer to the beginning of the new TV season, she said.  “High-quality digital video content continues to be
scarce, so to have more of inventory to sell is very positive,”
Yaccarino said.  At the outset, the USA Network app will work for
subscribers to cable services from Comcast,  Time Warner Cable
Inc. (TWC) ,  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , Mediacom Communications Corp.,
and Suddenlink Communications. It will also be accessible to
customers of  DirecTV (DTV)  and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  and to users of
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS fiber-optic TV service.  About half the 99 million U.S. TV households that receive
USA Network will be able to use the app initially. All
subscribers should be able to access the app during the next 12
months, Bond said.  Mobile Access  NBCUniversal’s Syfy channel and Spanish-language
broadcaster Telemundo are next in line for apps, Bond said. The
company will also expand its current online and mobile access
for sports and CNBC and MSNBC news channels, he said.
NBCUniversal also owns Bravo and Oxygen cable channels.  In addition to on-demand access to the shows, USA Network’s
app will provide games related to the programs, interaction with
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc. social media outlets and the
ability to access extra content during a show’s live airing.  As with HBO and ESPN, NBCUniversal plans to provide its
apps for use on video-game consoles and Internet-connected set-top boxes from companies including Roku Inc., Bond said.  “Our objective is to make our apps available wherever our
customers are,” Bond said. “We’ll look at all the other
opportunities out there.”  Comcast  rose  1 percent to $41.15 at the close in  New York 
today. Shares of the Philadelphia-based company have gained 10
percent this year, compared with a 13 percent advance for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  