-- Danone, Nestle Will Cut China Prices Amid State Probe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-03T16:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/nestle-s-wyeth-to-cut-china-milk-prices-after-government-probe.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Danone’s (BN)  infant-nutrition units will cut prices of key products in China after
the government started investigating possible pricing and anti-monopoly violations by overseas companies.  Wyeth, which Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle acquired from
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  in April 2012, will lower the prices of certain
 infant-formula  products by 6 percent to 20 percent, and promised
not to raise prices of new products for a year, it said
yesterday in a statement. The average reduction will be 11
percent. Danone’s Dumex unit is preparing a price cut and will
disclose details later, the company said in an e-mailed response
to questions.  “It was a bit of a surprise, and it may trigger further
pressure on prices for all of the players in that market,” Jon Cox, head of Swiss equities at Kepler, said by phone. “That’s
probably going to have an impact on the profitability of these
companies. It’s not positive, that’s for sure.”  China ’s National Development and Reform Commission, the
nation’s top economic planning agency, has started an
investigation into the pricing of infant formula sold by Wyeth
and other foreign companies including Danone and  Mead Johnson
Nutrition Co. (MJN) , the People’s Daily newspaper reported on July 2.  The NDRC has evidence that the companies sold goods at high
prices in China and their pricing increased about 30 percent
since 2008, according to the report, which cited the agency.
Melamine-tainted milk powder killed at least six infants that
year, fanning distrust among Chinese consumers of local milk and
driving them toward foreign brands at home and overseas.  ‘Damage Limitation’  Wyeth’s price cut “looks like damage limitation, and I’d
imagine others will follow,” said  James Targett , an analyst at
Berenberg Bank in  London . “The question is whether this will
make the consumer aware it is being overcharged, or whether it
will boost volumes.”  The NDRC didn’t answer at least five calls or respond to a
fax seeking comment on its investigation.  Wyeth conducted its own checks and discovered some
distributors and resellers had undertaken some “price control
measures,” it said in the statement. The Nestle unit
immediately adjusted its marketing practices to make sure its
operations complied with laws, Wyeth said.  In a separate statement yesterday, Wyeth said it would
cancel a plan announced in May to raise the prices of its S-26
range of infant-formula products sold in China by 4 percent. The
price increase had been designed to cover higher costs of raw
materials and formula upgrades. Wyeth will absorb the increase
in raw-material prices instead, the company said yesterday.  Price Cuts  Wyeth said the price cuts would save consumers an estimated
450 million  yuan  ($73 million) in the next 12 months.  “I was surprised they are reacting so quickly,”  Richard Withagen , an analyst at SNS Securities NV, said by phone.
“Prices are likely to come down across the board.”  Nestle’s Chinese infant milk formula business accounts for
about 1.7 percent of sales, according to estimates from Jeff Stent, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.  Nestle, the Swiss owner of the Gerber brand, agreed to buy
Pfizer’s baby-food business for $11.9 billion in April last year
to expand into faster-growing  emerging markets .  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , Dutch producer Royal FrieslandCampina
NV and local company  Biostime International Holdings Ltd. (1112)  are
also being probed, according to the People’s Daily. The
companies subject to investigation may face fines of 1 percent
to 10 percent of their revenue if found guilty by the NDRC, the
China Securities Journal reported yesterday, citing unidentified
experts on the anti-monopoly law.  Biostime Slumps  Biostime hasn’t received any official feedback or
information on possible penalties from the NDRC, Jason Xu, the
company’s assistant chief financial officer, said by phone
yesterday.  Biostime’s Hong Kong-listed shares declined for the third
day yesterday, falling 13 percent to close at HK$37.45. Danone
declined 2.8 percent to 55 euros in Paris trading and Nestle
shares slipped 1.1 percent to 61.80 Swiss francs in Zurich.  “If we assume that there is a 20 percent enforced price
reduction, Danone would need to increase volumes 25 percent to
stand still,” Guillaume Delmas, an analyst at Nomura, wrote in
a report on July 2. “That is, would need to find an additional
250,000 babies or 0.4 percent of the baby population.”  Royal FrieslandCampina has no update on the issue,
spokesman Jan-Willem ter Avest said yesterday.  Mead Johnson said in an e-mailed statement that no
additional information is available.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  