-- New Jersey Should Allow Gay Marriage, State Court Is Told
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-07-03T20:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/new-jersey-should-allow-gay-marriage-state-court-is-told.html
New Jersey ’s civil-union law doesn’t
go far enough to protect legal rights of gay couples, and a
judge should rule that same-sex couples can marry, a national
advocacy group argued in a court filing.  Lambda Legal , representing supporters of gay marriage,
urged a judge to “order that New Jersey allow same-sex couples
to marry,” according to the state court motion today in
Trenton. The group, which has litigated the question for a
decade, has new momentum after the U.S.  Supreme Court  on June 26
struck down a U.S. law denying federal benefits to same-sex
married couples.  “State-sanctioned marriage provides the key to the full
array of federal marital benefits,” according to the motion.
“The discrimination manifest in relegating same-sex couples to
civil union establishes the clearest possible violation of the
state constitutional guarantee” of equal rights and benefits.  The challenge comes as advocates seek to use the Supreme
Court ruling to expand the number of states where gay marriage
is legal. Thirteen states and the  District of Columbia  allow
same-sex marriage. In  New Mexico , the  American Civil Liberties
Union  said today that it asked the state Supreme Court to rule
on whether same-sex couples can marry.  In New Jersey, state Democratic lawmakers are seeking to
override Governor  Chris Christie ’s veto of a same-sex marriage
bill passed last year. Christie, a Republican, said marriage
should be between a man and a woman.  November Referendum  Christie, appearing today in Toms River, declined to
comment on the Lambda Legal challenge. He supports a referendum
in November, saying voters should decide whether to amend the
state’s constitution to allow same-sex marriage. Democrats have
balked at a statewide vote on a matter that they say is a civil
right.  “Even if it disagrees with my point of view, if the people
of this state vote for it, then I will enforce that law and
support that new section of the constitution with the same vigor
that I enforce the law and support the constitution now,”
Christie said.  “I’m willing to let the people decide,” Christie said.
“I don’t know why the advocates for same-sex marriage and, more
importantly, why the Democratic legislators are so afraid to let
the people decide. If what they are saying is true, this’ll be a
layup for them.”  Last week, the Supreme Court struck down the 1996 Defense
of Marriage Act, which denied legally married same-sex couples
the federal benefits that opposite-sex spouses can claim.  The federal law “places same-sex couples in an unstable
position of being in a second-tier marriage,” Justice  Anthony Kennedy  wrote in the 5-4 decision.  Constitutional Right  The court stopped short of declaring a constitutional right
for gays to marry. It also allowed gay marriages to resume in
 California , without ruling directly on that state’s voter-approved ban.  The New Jersey filing today was on behalf of Garden State
Equality, an advocacy group, and six same-sex couples.  Lambda Legal first sued in New Jersey in 2002 seeking
marriage equality. In 2006, the state Supreme Court ruled that
same-sex couples must get all the benefits of marriage. It
didn’t require gay marriages, and gave the Legislature 180 days
to act. The state passed a civil-union law later that year.  In June 2011, Lambda Legal sued for the freedom to marry,
saying civil unions violated the state and federal
constitutions. The motion today asks Superior Court Judge Mary
Jacobson to rule before a trial. Last week, Jacobson gave the
state a month to respond to today’s filing. She set Aug. 15 for
oral arguments.  “The Supreme Court of the  United States  has spoken, and it
is clear that the time for marriage equality is now,” Troy Stevenson, executive director of Garden State Equality, said in
a statement. “The debate is over, the facts are in, civil
unions are not and never will be equal to marriage.”  The New Jersey case is Garden State Equality v. Dow,
L-001729-11, New Jersey Superior Court, Mercer County (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  