-- Nigeria Braves Emerging-Debt Plunge With $1 Billion in Bonds
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-07-03T15:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/nigeria-braves-emerging-debt-plunge-to-sell-1-billion-in-bonds.html
Nigeria  returned to the international
 bond market  for the first time in two years with a $1 billion
sale of Eurobonds, raising funds for power projects amid a
selloff in emerging-market debt.  Africa ’s biggest oil producer issued $500 million of five-year notes to yield 5.375 percent and $500 million of 10-year
securities at 6.625 percent yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In January 2011, the nation paid 6.75
percent on dollar debt due 2021 in its first overseas offering
and the yield on the securities surged a record 133 basis points
in June to 6.02 percent. Yields on emerging-market  bonds  jumped
73 basis points to 5.80 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co. data show.  Demand is waning after the  Federal Reserve  signaled in May
and June plans to rein in $85 billion a month of assets
purchases that drove borrowing costs to record lows and fueled
demand for emerging-market assets. Dollar debt sales this year
by developing nations including Honduras and  Rwanda  have lost as
much as 14 percent for investors.  “While the pricing now may not be as attractive as it was,
it’s probably best they went into the market now before the
Fed’s slowdown in bond buying actually begins later this year,”
Yvonne Mhango, a sub-Saharan Africa economist at  Renaissance
Capital  in Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed reply to questions.
“It will only become more challenging for frontier markets to
garner interest from foreign investors and more expensive to
raise foreign financing.”  Oversubscribed Sale  Nigeria’s sale was four times oversubscribed, Finance
Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said yesterday on a conference
call. Investors in the U.S. accounted for 73 percent of the 10-year note purchases and U.K. buyers followed with 16 percent,
according to an e-mailed statement from Deutsche Bank AG, which
organized the sale with Citigroup Inc.  “It was a bold move,” Maryam Khosrowshahi, who runs
sovereign debt origination for central and eastern  Europe , the
 Middle East  and Africa at Deutsche Bank, said in a phone
interview from  London  today. “The transaction went extremely
well, which demonstrates that there still is demand and
liquidity.”  Higher Yields  The extra yield investors demand over U.S. Treasuries to
hold the 2021 Eurobonds of Nigeria, the continent’s second-largest economy, has climbed to 377 basis points, or 3.77
percentage points, from this year’s low of 206 in January, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The yield on two-year U.S. Treasuries touched 0.19 percent
in May and that for notes included in the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Index reached 5.98 percent, both
record lows. They have since risen to 0.34 percent and 6.94
percent, respectively.  African countries from  Kenya  to Ghana and  Senegal  are
lining up to borrow abroad as debt costs are still below the
average of the last five years.  “The market will continue to be supportive of  emerging
markets  as emerging-market fundamentals in general remain
strong,” Khosrowshahi said. The increase in yields “doesn’t
mean that issuers cannot raise financing anymore: the market is
there,” she said.  Kenya, Ghana  Kenya said it’s seeking a manager for its first foreign
bond sale, targeting $1 billion for infrastructure development
in  East Africa ’s largest economy. Ghana said it plans to offer
$1 billion later this month in its second Eurobond sale, Senegal
may issue $500 million this year and Rwanda sold a debut $400
million of international notes in April.  “The risk metrics in the Eurobond market have been more
supportive in recent days and the issuer probably wants to take
advantage of this relative turn,”  Samir Gadio , a London-based
emerging markets strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in
e-mailed comments. “Nigeria will still pay a higher external
funding cost than what it could have secured a couple of months
ago pre-EM correction.”  Yields on Nigeria’s $500 million Eurobonds due January 2021
rose 11 basis points, or 0.11 basis points, to 6 percent
yesterday in London, where they are listed. They declined 14
basis points to 5.86 percent today.  “Nigeria is building a Eurobond yield curve by issuing new
five-year and 10-year notes, with outstanding issues now due in
2018, 2021 and 2023,” Gadio said.  ‘Material Need’  The government is raising funds to boost electricity output
in a country where demand is almost double the supply of about
4,000 megawatts and blackouts are a daily occurrence.  Nigeria needs $10 billion of infrastructure investment each
year to keep up with the needs of the country, home to more than
170 million people, Okonjo-Iweala said in an interview in May.  “The fact that they decided to launch in the current
market conditions suggests that there is material need for the
funds,”  Alan Cameron , a London-based economist at FCMB Group
Plc, said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “Although the most
recent budget data is not yet available, we know that there was
a shortfall in projected federal government revenues of 19
percent in the first quarter 2013, and there was likely a
similar if not greater shortfall in quarter two.”  ‘Build Confidence’  The government is in discussions with Nigeria’s governors
on how to carry out future transfers and manage savings in the
sovereign wealth fund, which now has $1 billion in assets,
Okonjo-Iweala said on yesterday’s conference call. The federal
government plans to step up contributions toward the end of the
year, she said.  The fund, started in October, was set up to invest savings
made from the difference between budgeted oil prices and actual
market prices. The government is targeting $5 billion in savings
in the fund in the “medium-term,” the minister said.  “We have to build confidence that this money will be well
managed and will be well invested,” she said.  Crude production fell to 1.81 million barrels a day in
March, the lowest since September 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Oil theft in the Niger River delta caused
production to decline to an average 2.2 million barrels a day in
the first quarter, according to figures released by state-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. on April 17.  This year’s budget is based on a production forecast of
2.53 million barrels a day.  Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and Standard &
Poor’s all rate Nigeria three levels below investment grade.  Fitch said last month that slowing progress on government
reforms before 2015 elections is keeping the country from
getting a better  credit rating , echoing Moody’s, which said in
May that the country is also hindered by corruption, weak
institutions and vulnerability to oil-price drops.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  