-- Nokia Siemens Wins MTS Order for Advanced Russian Network
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-07-03T09:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/nokia-siemens-wins-mts-order-for-advanced-russian-network.html
Nokia Siemens Networks won an order
to build a fourth-generation wireless system in Moscow for  OAO
Mobile TeleSystems (MTSS)  as  Russia ’s biggest mobile-phone company adds
Internet capacity to attract customers.  Nokia Siemens will start construction this quarter on the
long-term evolution technology network to permit speedier mobile
online connections, MTS said today in a  statement  distributed at
a Moscow press conference. The contract value is at least $200
million and may be extended, said Dmitry Solodovnikov, an MTS
spokesman.  MTS awarded Stockholm-based Ericsson AB a three-year
contract last month to set up LTE networks in southern Russia,
the Volga region, Siberia and the Urals. The Nokia Siemens
project, which  Bloomberg News  reported earlier today before the
announcement was released, also includes the central Russia
region surrounding the national capital. MTS hasn’t yet awarded
4G contracts for the two remaining regions of northwestern and
far-eastern Russia.  Nokia Siemens is a 50-50 venture between mobile-phone
manufacturer  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and German engineering company  Siemens
AG. (SIE)  Espoo, Finland-based Nokia agreed earlier this week to buy
out the Munich-based partner’s share for 1.7 billion euros ($2.2
billion).  Russia allocated 4G licenses in July last year. MTS,  OAO
MegaFon (MFON) ,  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  and state-run OAO Rostelecom committed
to invest at least 15 billion rubles ($452 million) annually
through 2019 in the networks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  