-- Nokia Unveils $68 Mobile Phones for Speedy Internet Access
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-07-03T10:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/nokia-unveils-mobile-phone-models-for-fast-internet-access.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the second-biggest maker
of mobile phones, unveiled cheaper handsets today to meet
consumer demand for fast connections to the Internet.  The Nokia 207 and 208 are candybar-shaped phones that let
users connect to speedier third-generation networks, the company
said in a statement. They come with Nokia’s Xpress Browser that
compresses data and will include social applications such as
WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter. Both handsets will cost $68 and
are expected to start shipping this quarter. The third model is
a dual SIM version of the Nokia 208.  The company said the new models are its “most affordable
3G devices yet.” As Nokia strives to catch up with Apple Inc.
and Samsung Electronics Co. in smartphones priced at more than
$500, the Espoo, Finland-based company is also trying to boost
sales of more basic handsets that sell for a fraction of the
price, a category that accounts for most of its device business.  Nokia’s first-quarter sales slumped 20 percent as
competition from Asian manufacturers of phones that run Google
Inc.’s Android software hurt demand for the company’s cheaper
models. Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop said the decline in
its mobile-phone business was primarily caused by competition
and Nokia was preparing “aggressive moves” to respond. It
unveiled new software to power its Asha  mobile phones  in May.  Cash Sources  Nokia’s  shares  fell 0.5 percent to 2.97 euros at 1:22 p.m.
in Helsinki, paring the advance to 1.4 percent this year and
valuing the company at 11.1 billion euros ($14.4 billion).  Of the 336 million handsets Nokia sold last year, only
about 10 percent were smartphones. Basic models accounted for 31
percent of Nokia’s revenue, versus 18 percent for smartphones.
Network equipment made up most of the balance.  Nokia reported April 18 that it sold about 11 million fewer
mobile phones in the first quarter than analysts had projected,
with basic phones plunging 21 percent to 55.8 million units. A
failure to revive the low-end business would leave Nokia without
an important source of cash to develop devices to challenge
competitors.  The phonemaker this week said it plans to buy  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s
share in the six-year Nokia Siemens Networks joint venture for
1.7 billion euros, giving it full access to the phone-equipment
maker’s cashflow.  Nokia Siemens today won a contract worth at least $200
million to build a fourth-generation wireless system for
Russia’s biggest mobile-phone company OAO Mobile TeleSystems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  