-- NTT DoCoMo Eyes Emerging Market Growth as SoftBank Chooses U.S.
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-07-03T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/ntt-docomo-eyes-emerging-market-growth-as-softbank-chooses-u-s-.html
NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) ,  Japan ’s biggest
wireless carrier, may acquire companies in emerging Asian
markets instead of returning to the U.S. as it tries to fend off
subscriber gains by competitor  SoftBank Corp. (9984)   Both companies are seeking to boost revenue from outside
Japan, where a shrinking population limits demand for handsets
and services. While DoCoMo  looks  to  Asia  as economic growth
spurs orders for faster networks, SoftBank, Japan’s third-largest carrier, is buying Sprint Nextel Corp. for $21.6 billion
to enter the U.S. market.  “If there’s an opportunity, we’ll consider” network
acquisitions in Asia, Kaoru Kato, president of DoCoMo, said
yesterday in an interview in Tokyo. “We like challenges, and
there are many things we can do together with a partner in every
phase, such as building networks.”  DoCoMo, which counts almost half of Japan’s 127 million
people as subscribers, owns stakes in carriers in Bangladesh,
Taiwan, the Philippines and India, said Kato. SoftBank has 33
million users in Japan, without including its subsidiaries.  Tokyo-based DoCoMo plans to keep its 26 percent stake in
 Tata Teleservices (TTLS)  Ltd. in India, Kato said. It has scaled back
spending on phone companies outside Asia after an investment in
the U.S. company then known as AT&T Wireless Services Inc. led
to a writedown a decade ago.  “We’re different from SoftBank,” Kato said. DoCoMo has no
plans to make acquisitions in developed markets to expand its
network business, he said.  Galaxy Over iPhone  DoCoMo faces declines in adding new subscribers, with May’s
total down almost 28 percent from a year earlier. SoftBank’s new
subscribers increased almost 16 percent and KDDI’s increased 14
percent in the same period.  DoCoMo  forecasts  a 2.9 percent increase in net income to
510 billion yen this fiscal year and 3.8 percent growth in
sales, it said April 26. The carrier plans to boost handset
sales 4 percent to 24.5 million in the year ending March 31.  DoCoMo is promoting Sony Corp.’s Xperia and  Samsung
Electronics (005930)  Co.’s Galaxy smartphones to lure customers from
SoftBank and  KDDI Corp. (9433) , whose lineups include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone. Some subscribers are leaving DoCoMo for competitors
because the carrier doesn’t offer the iPhone, Kato said.  Sales of Sony and Samsung handsets are “faring well,” as
the company sold 830,000 Xperias and 400,000 Galaxy S4s through
June 30, he said. The president declined to say if the carrier
would offer Apple’s handset.  DoCoMo  fell  1.1 percent to 156,200 yen at the close of
trading in Tokyo, paring this year’s gain to 26 percent. That
compares with an 85 percent advance for SoftBank, a 65 percent
gain by KDDI and the 37 percent climb by Japan’s benchmark Topix
index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  