-- NWR Heads for Biggest 4-Day Rally Since 2009: Prague Mover
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-07-03T10:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/nwr-heads-for-biggest-4-day-rally-since-2009-prague-mover.html
New World Resources Plc. (NWR) , an
unprofitable Czech supplier of steelmaking coal, headed for the
biggest four-day rally in more than four years after the company
said it will sell assets to pay for debt.  The  stock  jumped as much as 10 percent, extending a four-day surge to 32 percent, the biggest such advance since May
2009. It climbed 4.6 percent by 10:42 a.m. in Prague, the most
in the PX  index , which fell 1.5 percent.  The Czech miner invited bids for its OKK coking-coal
subsidiary, the Paskov mine and other assets, it said today in a
regulatory statement. It has 578 million euros ($749 million) of
 debt  coming due in 2018, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA is among the “many”
European companies invited by NWR to analyze assets put up for
sale, PAP newswire reported July 1, citing the Polish mining
company’s chief executive officer, Jaroslaw Zagorowski.  “JSW is a logical buyer,” Petr Bartek, an analyst at
Erste Group Bank AG, said in a telephone interview. “The coking
unit is an interesting asset, while the Paskov mine is old and
probably losing a lot of money. I can imagine someone buying the
two assets together as most of Paskov’s coal is processed by
OKK.”  NWR first signaled the possibility of asset sales in May,
after posting a 80.3 million euros loss in the first quarter.  “The first-quarter results reveal elevated cash burn,”
Roger Bell, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst in  London , wrote in a
report to clients May 16. “We anticipate the business should be
able to manage until 2018, at which point an about 500 million-euro bond maturity presents very challenging refinancing risk.”  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded NWR’s debt rating to
B2 with a negative outlook on May 29, saying its operating
performance has worsened in recent quarters as a result of a
prolonged deterioration of the coal market.  NWR’s shares tumbled 74 percent in the three months ended
June 30, the steepest quarterly slump since at least September
2008, as a recession in the  Czech Republic  and the euro area
damped demand from steelmakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in  Prague  at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  