-- Obamacare Will Survive This Delay
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-03T18:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/obamacare-will-survive-this-delay.html
The White House’s  decision  to delay a
component of Obamacare doesn’t threaten the success of the law.
Nor should it distract critics or the administration of
President  Barack Obama  from the real challenge: building
insurance exchanges that work.  The administration said it would postpone enforcement of
the Affordable Care Act requirement that companies with 50 or
more full-time workers provide health insurance that meets
minimum requirements of coverage and affordability. Companies
that didn’t comply were to pay a fine of $2,000 to $3,000 a
worker starting next year; that fine will now be delayed until
 2015 .  Giving businesses and the Internal Revenue Service more
time to prepare for the mandate’s extensive reporting
requirements makes sense. Critics of this change are right to
note that it’s a win for business, but that doesn’t necessarily
mean it’s a loss for employees or the public. Nobody gains from
a reporting system that doesn’t work.  Moreover, the practical effect of this delay is limited.
 Ninety-eight percent  of employers with more than 200 workers
already offer health coverage; for those with 50 to 199
employees, it’s 94 percent. For companies looking to drop
coverage, the penalty, which is a fraction of the cost of health
insurance, was unlikely to deter them.  Even if employers were to respond to this change by
canceling coverage for a significant portion of workers, that
could well benefit the new state insurance exchanges, whose
success depends on getting a critical mass of enrollees --
especially healthy ones.  The real downside of this delay is in the politics, not the
policy. By conceding to business requests to water down or push
back the mandate, the administration has essentially set a
precedent for other groups seeking to change the law. This is
not a White House renowned for its negotiating acumen. If this
change becomes one in a series of last-minute concessions
designed to appease  critics , it could lead to a weaker law.
Besides which, any changes are unlikely to placate those who
were, are and will remain fundamentally opposed to Obamacare.  The administration should vanquish those concerns by
redoubling its efforts to get the exchanges ready for business
starting in October. Those exchanges were already a  crucial
element  of the law; they’re now even more important, in case
employers stop offering insurance in greater numbers.  The employer mandate was never the most critical component
of the Affordable Care Act. Its value is as much symbolic as
practical. Delaying its implementation by a year is unlikely to
hurt the law’s broader goals of expanding coverage and
controlling cost. As the administration considers further
changes or concessions to the law, those are the goals it should
keep in mind.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 