-- Obama Makes Wise Choice to Delay Insurance Mandate
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-07-03T17:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/obama-makes-wise-choice-to-delay-insurance-mandate.html
The  Barack Obama  administration
should be commended for delaying implementation of the employer
mandate under the Affordable Care Act. The delay won’t do much
damage -- other than perhaps symbolically -- to the effort to
expand insurance coverage, and it allows the administration to
focus on more pressing issues in carrying out the law.  The delay was front-page news across the country. But what
are the actual effects?  The mandate  requires companies with 50
or more employees to provide health insurance or to pay a $2,000
to $3,000 penalty for each worker who gets subsidized individual
coverage through the public exchanges created by the
legislation. The administration’s announcement means that no
company will face  this penalty  until 2015.  The penalty is far from perfect. At the margin, for
example, it has the effect of discouraging employment of low-and moderate-wage workers -- the ones who could get subsidized
coverage through the exchanges -- relative to high-wage workers.
But what impact will delaying it by one year have on coverage?  The effects can be assessed for two types of companies:
those that currently lack coverage, which would face the penalty
unless they created a plan, and those that currently offer
insurance, which would face the penalty if they dropped their
plan.  Any impact from the penalty is much more likely to be in
the second category, for the simple reason that the vast
majority of companies covered by the mandate already offer
insurance, as  Mark Duggan  of the  University of Pennsylvania   has
highlighted .  It’s possible that delaying the penalty will cause some
companies to drop their plans in 2014 even if they would have
maintained those plans in the face of the penalty, but I highly
doubt it. First, many if not most companies have already made
their insurance decisions for next year; it’s unlikely that they
will change their plans. Second, how many companies that would
have maintained their plan under the penalty would be willing to
drop that plan when the penalty will be effective in 2015? That
type of short-term decision-making doesn’t find favor with many
human-resources directors.  By the way, the effect of the penalty on whether companies
ultimately drop their plans and force their workers onto the
public exchanges is an important question -- but a one-year
delay is unlikely to be a major influence on those decisions.
Most of the analyses of this question seem off to me because
they don’t take adequate account of the domino effect: If some
iconic companies drop their plans, a lot of others may follow;
if the iconic companies retain their plans, employer dropping
may be much more modest.  The irony in the employer mandate delay is that when the
legislation was passed, most of the commentary was that it did a
lot to address coverage but very little to contain costs. Since
then, the news on cost has been much better than expected.
 Medicare costs  rose only 3.3 percent in nominal terms last
fiscal year, and 4 million  Medicare beneficiaries  are enrolled
this year in accountable care organizations, the groups of
hospitals, doctors and other providers that coordinate to make
treatment more efficient. At the same time, the coverage effort
has met understandable but nonetheless real challenges -- as the
delay in the employer mandate illustrates.  All of which brings me back to the administration’s
decision. Given the major challenges associated with getting the
exchanges up and running, the anxiety that the employer mandate
was creating in the business community, and the minimal harm
from a delay itself, the administration was wise to postpone the
mandate for a year -- but only if it now redoubles its focus on
successful implementation of the exchanges, which are absolutely
crucial to the coverage effort. That would also help the
administration avoid the real risk that the delay is perceived
as the beginning of an unraveling of all the steps needed to
carry out the law.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
David Shipley at  djshipley@bloomberg.net . 