-- Obama Revamps $8 Billion Coal Program Amid Objections
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-07-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/obama-revamps-8-billion-coal-program-amid-objections.html
Under fire from coal producers and
lawmakers from coal-producing states, the Obama administration
is revamping an $8 billion federal loan-guarantee program to
help companies reduce their carbon dioxide emissions.  The plan announced yesterday is part of a broader strategy
for dealing with the risks of  climate change  that President
 Barack Obama  unveiled last week. His policy relies on cuts to
 carbon emissions  at new and existing power plants that will
probably reduce coal use in the U.S.  Republicans and coal-industry executives say the effort
will cost jobs in states such as  Kentucky  and Ohio where coal is
produced and provides relatively cheap power to manufacturers.
U.S. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz said yesterday the new effort
on loan guarantees shows the administration isn’t anti-coal.  “The issue here is to prepare for the future, a future in
which coal is in fact part of the mix,” Moniz said in a
conference call with reporters.  Electric utilities are responsible for about 40 percent of
U.S. greenhouse gas emissions, with coal accounting for the bulk
of the carbon dioxide released. Most scientists say carbon
emissions are contributing to a warming of the planet. Obama
said in a June 25 speech at  Georgetown University  that
mitigating the threat is one of his second-term priorities.  “I don’t have much patience for anyone that denies that
this challenge is real,” Obama said. “Sticking your head in
the sand might make you feel safer but it’s not going to protect
you from the coming storm.”  Coal War  The speech revived accusations from coal advocates that
Obama is waging a “war on coal.” The industry had sought to
popularize that refrain in swing states that produce coal during
the 2012 presidential campaign, without much effect. Obama won
in Ohio, Virginia and Pennsylvania,  where coal producers
targeted much of their efforts.  Christopher Bosso, a political science professor at
 Northeastern University  in  Boston , said the federal aid to the
coal industry could help protect Democrats who are facing
election in 2014 in coal-centric states.  “I think that all Obama and his energy secretary can do is
try to hunker down and make the argument that they are making,”
said Burdett Loomis, a political science professor at the
University of  Kansas  in Lawrence.  The  National Republican Senatorial Committee  cited Obama’s
climate-change plan in a July 1 news release criticizing Alison
Lundergan Grimes, a Democrat who is running for the  U.S. Senate 
in Kentucky against incumbent Republican Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell .  ‘Legacy Issue’  “The president views this as a legacy issue, and on this
point he and I agree,” Mike Duncan, the president of the
American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, said in speech on
June 26. “But that legacy is going to be higher energy costs,
less reliable electricity, lost jobs and a shattered economy.”  Federal loan guarantees are intended to quiet objections to
Obama’s climate plans, said  Michael McKenna , a Republican
political strategist and lobbyist with MWR Strategies Inc. in
Midlothian, Virginia.  The money can “help those who care about coal pretend that
this administration can be negotiated with,” McKenna said in an
e-mail.  He said  carbon-capture  technology hasn’t been shown to be
economically efficient.  “We’re encouraged that the administration recognizes the
need to develop carbon-capture and storage” Lisa Camooso
Miller, a spokeswoman for the clean-coal group, said in an e-mail.  Carbon Capture  The Energy Department seems to acknowledge the difficulty
it has had in finding carbon-capture projects worthy of U.S.
backing in its  revamped plan . Congress first gave the department
the authority to issue as much as $8 billion in U.S. loan
guarantees to clean fossil energy projects in a 2005 law.  In 2008, the department solicited proposals for clean coal
projects. It hasn’t touched the money.  The new plan expands eligibility to proposals that reduce
emissions from oil and gas drilling, and for energy-efficiency
efforts such as capturing waste heat from large industrial
facilities to make electricity. Clean-coal projects also remain
eligible for aid.  To get a guarantee, companies backing projects would have
to pay a credit subsidy fee to the U.S. as a hedge against
default. Coming up with the credit subsidy costs remains a
hurdle for most companies, said Christine Tezak, an analyst at
ClearView Energy Partners LLC in  Washington .  Natural Gas  “The economics on clean coal is still very difficult given
modestly priced  natural gas ,” Tezak said in an e-mail. Of the
new loan guarantee announcement, she said: “It certainly seems
intended to blunt the ‘war on coal’ criticism.”  The  Natural Resources Defense Council , which supports
Obama’s climate push, said reducing carbon dioxide emissions
doesn’t need to cost jobs.  According to a report written by a pair of NRDC staff
members released yesterday, cutting emissions could result in a
net increase of 210,000 jobs as workers install carbon-capture
technologies, efficiency systems and clean-energy projects.  Paul Bledsoe, a former White House aide under President
 Bill Clinton  who specialized in climate-change issues, said
politics aren’t the administration’s only reason for trying
again to find worthy clean-coal projects.  While coal use has fallen in recent years as utilities
switched to cheaper, and cleaner, natural gas prices, coal still
accounted for about 38 percent of the electricity produced in
the U.S. in 2011, more than any other fuel, according to the
Energy Information Administration.  Coal Dependence  China and India both rely even more heavily on coal as they
try to meet the needs of their expanding economies.  “For both political and policy reasons, Democrats have
been trying to find a way to get clean coal into the long-term
energy mix,” said Bledsoe, who’s now a senior fellow for energy
and climate at the  German Marshall Fund  of the  United States , a
Washington-based group that seeks to strengthen transatlantic
cooperation. “Not only because the U.S. needs it, but primarily
for use in  developing countries  over time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  