-- OGX Declares Petronas Partnership Oil Field Commercial Amid Rout
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-07-03T15:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/ogx-declares-petronas-partnership-oil-field-commercial-amid-rout.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ,
the world’s worst-performing oil stock this year, declared its
Remora offshore field commercial two days after saying its only
producing prospect may close next year.  The field, in a block partly owned by  Malaysia ’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. off Rio de Janeiro in the southeastern Campos
basin, was declared commercially viable according to a statement
on the Brazilian oil regulator’s website. The block comprising
Remora, known as C-M-499 or BM-C-40, is one of two where
Petronas agreed to buy 40 percent stakes on May 8. The second
block partly owned by Petronas, known as BM-C-39, was declared
commercial in April 2012.  OGX shares have lost more than 50 percent in three days
after the oil producer controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista 
said it was closing fields, following missed output targets that
have sent the shares plummeting since last year. The slump is
extending a 91 percent  decline  this year, the most of more than
500 oil producers worth at least $100 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Declaring a field commercial doesn’t ensure that it will be
developed. OGX in March said that the Tubarao Tigre, Tubarao
Gato and Tubarao Areia fields were commercial and on July 2 said
it plans to return the three licenses because it doesn’t have
the technology to develop them. OGX also said two days ago that
its only producing oil field, Tubarao Azul, may be shut down in
2014.  The sale of stakes in the two blocks to Petronas, along
with Batista’s pledge to buy as much as $1 billion of OGX in a
put option, will ensure the company will be able to meet its
obligations, the Rio-based company said today in a separate
regulatory statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  