-- Billionaire Batista Faces OGX’s Collapse as Bonds Plummet
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-07-03T13:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/ogx-s-77-cent-collapse-fails-to-emit-buy-signal-brazil-credit.html
The bond-market collapse of OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA has been so severe investors are
offering to sell their claims for 19 cents on the dollar. The
true value may be as little as zero, according to Barclays Plc.  OGX’s $1.06 billion of debt due 2022 plunged 10.5 cents
this week to the lowest price among more than 1,900 dollar-denominated emerging-market corporate bonds after billionaire
 Eike Batista ’s flagship company said on July 1 that it’s
considering halting output at its only oil-producing field. The
bonds have tumbled 75 cents from this year’s high in January,
while OGX’s $2.56 billion of notes due in 2018 lost 77 cents to
20.9 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors run the risk of losing all of their money in part
because OGX’s obligations may balloon in the event of a default
as it incurs liabilities from sister company  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) ,
according to  Christopher Buck , an analyst at Barclays. The
possibility that OGX will repay other creditors first and the
prospect that its oil reserves could be worth less than
estimated may also erode the payout for bondholders, according
to  Stone Harbor  Investment Partners and Oppenheimer & Co.  “We’d prefer to sit this one out,” William Perry, an
emerging market fund manager at Stone Harbor, which oversees $68
billion in assets, said in a telephone interview. The New York-based firm was named the 2013 manager of the year for emerging-market debt by Institutional Investor magazine. “This isn’t a
clear cut case where you can see value and assign a level. There
are a lot of creditor constituencies involved here, probably a
lot of off balance sheet liabilities.”  OSX Compensation  Press officials at OGX and parent company EBX Group Co.
declined to comment on the performance of OGX bonds or potential
recovery values for  creditors  in the event of a default.  “Different scenarios of an OGX default produce a wide
range of recovery values -- in our case, from 0 to 37 cents on
the dollar,” Barclays’s Buck wrote in a July 1 note to clients.
“The wide dispersion is mainly due to the possible reduction in
ownership of Tubarao Martelo and Atlanta, as well as the
potential for significant OSX liabilities to be added to the
claims pool.”  Cash Drain  OGX said in a regulatory filing July 1 that it may stop
output at its Tubarao Azul field in 2014 and that it canceled
orders with OSX for new oil and wellhead platforms. OGX said it
will immediately pay $449 million in compensation to OSX, or 39
percent of the oil’s producer’s cash hoard at the end of the
first quarter.  Barclays estimates that OGX may finish the quarter with
about $150 million in cash, while Credit Suisse Group AG said in
a report yesterday the oil producer may be left with about $13
million by year-end, assuming it doesn’t receive part of an $850
million payment by Petroliam Nasional Bhd., known as Petronas,
for the sale of a 40 percent stake in the Tubarao Martelo field,
where development continues.  OGX is also considering asking  Brazil ’s oil regulator to
suspend the license to develop the Tubarao Tigre, Tubarao Gato
and Tubarao Areia offshore fields, according to the filing. The
company has until September to present its plan to develop the
fields or it will have to return them, newspaper O Estado de S.
Paulo reported yesterday.  ‘No Value’  “If there is a default, then they could lose their
license,” Omar Zeolla, a corporate credit analyst at
Oppenheimer, said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“Those could go back to the government. It’s hard to estimate
the recoverable amount of oil from the assets that they
currently own after the experience in Tubarao Azul. If it goes
through liquidation, there could be no value for bondholders.”  Batista, whose resources and logistics startups made him
the world’s eighth-richest person in March 2012, is scaling back
projects and selling assets after net debt at his EBX holding
company almost doubled the combined market value of its units.
OGX shares have slumped 90 percent this year after missed
targets and production delays, while Batista’s estimated fortune
has shrunk by about $30 billion from its peak.  Ana Paula Ares, an analyst at  Fitch Ratings , estimates
investors may recover between 31 cents and 50 cents on the
dollar in an OGX restructuring.  ‘Potential for Recovery’  “When you see the amount they’ll get paid by Petronas,
that could give you an assessment that the assets the company
has, despite the fact they’re not producing, they do have some
value,” she said by telephone from  Buenos Aires . “That’s
another way bondholders could recover the value if there was any
default. There’s potential for recovery through the assets.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries climbed two
basis points to 243 basis points today as of 9:12 a.m. in New
York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose to 200 basis points, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real weakened 0.5 percent to 2.2649 per dollar.  ‘Full Clarity’  Standard & Poor’s  cut OGX’s credit rating to CCC yesterday,
eight steps below investment grade, and maintained its negative
outlook, citing the impact of the company’s lower production
development plan on future operating performance.  “It’s difficult to make an assumption of what value the
assets have, as management didn’t really provide full clarity on
the problems, and we don’t know what the real potential for the
proven reserves is,” Cornel Bruhin, a  money manager  responsible
for $4.5 billion of emerging-market debt at MainFirst Schweiz
AG, said in a telephone interview from Zurich. “There is value
attached, there should be a possibility, but more and more
investors don’t see it. Otherwise they wouldn’t try to sell down
here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  