-- London Mayor Sees Plenty of Opportunities for Islamic Finance
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-07-03T16:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/london-mayor-sees-plenty-of-opportunities-for-islamic-finance.html
London Mayor  Boris Johnson  called for
a greater U.K. role in the  Islamic-finance  market as a Malaysian
delegation visited the capital city.  The London Stock Exchange listed $24 billion of sukuk in
the past two years, Johnson said in his office today at a
meeting with Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak. The capital
should be at the heart of the Islamic finance market, which is
set to grow to $1.6 trillion by 2015, he said.  “Some of the most famous and iconic structures in London
are actually built thanks to Islamic finance,” Mayor Johnson
said. “The Shard is the product of Shariah-compliant finance.
We certainly have plenty of opportunities.”  Built with Qatari-backing, the Shard is western Europe’s
tallest building, standing at 309.6 meters (1,016 feet) on the
South Bank of the  River Thames . Developer  SP Setia Bhd. (SPSB)  and palm
oil producer  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  led a Malaysian group that bought
London’s Battersea Power Station for 400 million pounds ($611
million) last July. The two companies own the site with the
Employees Provident Fund.  Johnson said he and Najib tomorrow will join Prime Minister
 David Cameron  to unveil the start of work on the Battersea site.
Cameron visited Malaysia, the biggest center for the more than
$1 trillion-a-year Islamic finance market, last year to build on
a pact to promote bilateral engagement in the industry and
created an Islamic Finance Task Force in March. Shariah-compliant bonds pay returns on assets to comply with the Koran’s
ban on interest.  London will host more than 1,500 government leaders,
scholars and executives at the World Islamic Economic Forum in
October, the first outside Muslim world, Najib said.  Malaysia will be a major player in London real estate with
investors like the Employees Provident Fund, which oversees $176
billion for more than 13 million Malaysians, Najib said.  “We will probably see quite an upswing in terms of
Malaysian companies looking at investing at real estate
development and purchasing buildings in  London ,” Najib said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  