-- European Shares Rally on Draghi as Egypt Bonds Rebound
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-07-04T19:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/hong-kong-futures-signal-stock-gains-as-egypt-lifts-crude.html
European shares rallied the most in
two months and the euro weakened as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  made an unprecedented pledge to keep
rates low for an extended period. Egypt’s bond yields fell the
most on record after the army deposed President Mohamed Mursi.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 2.3 percent. Portugal’s
main equity gauge jumped 3.7 percent.  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  futures rose 0.9 percent to 1,623.80 with U.S. markets
shut today for the Independence Day holiday. Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV) 
stock gauge climbed for the first time in five days. The yield
on Egypt’s bonds due in April 2020 tumbled 148 basis points to a
two-week low of 9.29 percent. The euro declined 0.7 percent to
$1.2915 at 3:42 p.m. in  New York .  Draghi said the policy stance will remain accommodative as
long as needed and that risks to euro-area growth remain “on
the downside.” Paulo Portas, the Portuguese minister whose
resignation this week threatened to bring down the government,
met with Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  to try to overcome
differences on budget policy. Adly Mansour, the chief justice of
Egypt’s constitutional court, was sworn in as interim president
after the army ousted Mursi in a move it said aimed to restore
stability.  “Draghi clearly says that the ECB is now giving explicit
forward guidance, suggesting that  interest rates  will remain at
current or lower level for a prolonged period of time,”
Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at Newedge Group in
London, said in an e-mailed note.  U.S. Payrolls  The U.S. unemployment rate probably fell to 7.5 percent in
June, matching April’s four-year low and down from 7.6 percent
in May, according to the median forecast of 82 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey before a Labor Department report tomorrow.  Brazil’s Ibovespa rose 1.6 percent, snapping a four-day
losing streak. Companies controlled by the billionaire  Eike
Batista  surged as he stepped down as chairman of MPX Energia SA.
Batista’s flagship oil company, OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA, soared 16 percent, the best performance on the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  gauge. The real appreciated 0.4 percent to 2.2595 per
dollar, climbing from its weakest level since 2009. The
Brazilian central bank intervened to stem the currency’s decline
by selling foreign-exchange swaps.  Mexico’s IPC stock gauge advanced 1 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index of Canadian shares climbed 0.3
percent.  U.K. bonds gained while the pound declined after the  Bank
of England  signaled a growing concern about rising bond yields
and volatile markets.  Gilt Yield  The yield on 10-year gilts fell one basis point to 2.38
percent while the pound weakened 1.3 percent to $1.5081, the
biggest drop since December 2011. The Bank of England said
increasing market rates weigh on the outlook for the economy as
policy makers kept borrowing costs and the stimulus program
unchanged. Today’s announcement was the first by the central
bank since Governor  Mark Carney  took the reins on July 1.  European  stocks  rebounded from their biggest drop in more
than a week as carmakers and mining companies climbed.  Taylor
Wimpey Plc  rose 7.1 percent as the U.K.’s second-largest
housebuilder by volume said that its operating-profit margin
increased in the first half.  Celesio AG (CLS1)  slumped 7.5 percent as Jefferies Group LLC
downgraded the drug distributor. The stock tumbled in the final
half-hour of trading yesterday after the company’s supervisory
board dismissed Markus Pinger as chief executive officer.  China Rally  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose for the first time in
three days, rallying 1.1 percent. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong 
added 1.4 percent after China’s government said fiscal funds
should be used to stabilize economic growth. The Shanghai
Composite Index gained 0.6 percent.  Egypt ’s benchmark EGX 30 Index of stocks rallied 7.3
percent, the most since June 2012. The army yesterday ousted
Mursi, the country’s first democratically elected president, and
called early elections as part of a road map agreed on with
politicians and religious leaders.  The won advanced 0.5 percent versus the dollar after  South
Korea  said it will boost policies to add service-industry jobs
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. affirmed its view that the currency
will gain this year. The euro fell 0.7 percent to 129.28 yen.
Japan’s currency was little changed at 99.94 per dollar.
Canada’s currency slid 0.2 percent to C$1.0521.  Copper dropped 0.8 percent and West Texas Intermediate oil
fell 0.1 percent to $101.12 a barrel. European Union carbon
allowances for December declined 3 percent after rallying 9.3
percent yesterday when the EU approved a new trading system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net  