-- Top-Seed Djokovic to Take on Del Potro in Wimbledon Semifinals
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-07-03T17:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/top-seed-djokovic-sets-up-wimbledon-semifinal-against-del-potro.html
Top-seed Novak Djokovic defeated
Tomas Berdych in straight sets to set up a semifinal against
Juan Martin  Del Potro  at the Wimbledon tennis championships.  Djokovic, of  Serbia , beat the No. 7 Czech 7-6 (7-5), 6-4,
6-3 at the All England Club in southwest  London  to reach his
13th consecutive Grand Slam semifinal.  “I am really happy with the performance,” Djokovic, 26,
told the British Broadcasting Corp. “I am playing some of the
best tennis on grass of my career.”  Argentina ’s Del Potro, the eighth seed, overcame a knee
injury in the first game to beat No. 4  David Ferrer  of  Spain  6-2, 6-4, 7-6 (7-5) on Centre Court and reach his first Wimbledon
semifinal.  “I think I played my best tennis in this match,” Del
Potro, the 2009 U.S. Open champion, told the BBC. “It was a big
performance for me. I’m so happy with my level at the moment.”  Second-seeded  Andy Murray  of Britain is taking on Spain’s
 Fernando Verdasco . The winner of that match will play Jerzy
Janowicz, who beat Polish countryman Lukasz Kubot 7-5, 6-4, 6-4
today.  Djokovic overcame a slow start to beat Berdych for the 14th
time in 16 career meetings. The 2011 Wimbledon champion has yet
to lose a set in five matches at the All England Club this year.  Both players held serve as the first set went to a
tiebreaker. Neither led by more than a point in the decider
until Berdych sent a forehand wide to give the Djokovic a 7-5
win.  Broke Twice  Berdych started quickly in the second set, breaking twice
for a 3-0 lead. Djokovic then had two straight breaks to tie the
set 3-3 and a third break in the final game put him two sets up.  A Berdych double-fault gave Djokovic a 3-1 lead in the
third set. The Serb then served out for the match to book his
fourth straight appearance in the Wimbledon semifinals.  “If you give him too much, then it’s a lot,” Berdych, 27,
told reporters. “You have to play really on the limit, play
really great to have a chance to beat him. That was not my case
today.”  Djokovic’s 13 straight Grand Slam semifinal appearances
ranks second behind  Roger Federer , who played in 23 consecutive
semifinals at majors.  Del Potro overcame a left knee injury in the opening game
of the match in becoming the first Argentine in the last four at
Wimbledon in 11 years.  Del Potro, 24, led the opening game 40-15 when he went down
after sliding to return a shot along the baseline. He was tended
to by a trainer before making his way to his courtside chair,
where he was further examined by a doctor.  ‘Close’ to Quitting  Wearing tape on the knee he injured earlier in the
tournament, Del Potro returned to the court a short time later
as Ferrer rebounded to take the opening game. After holding
serve, Del Potro broke for a 2-1 lead.  The Argentine limped noticeably as stayed back on the
baseline and avoided putting pressure on his leg while chasing
down shots. He broke again to lead 5-2, then held serve to close
out the set.  Del Potro told the  BBC  he was “really close” to quitting
the match.  “It’s really painful, I twisted my knee once again,” he
said. “The doctor gave me some magic pills.”  The second set stayed on serve until Del Potro broke for a
5-4 lead. He then held once again, taking the set when Ferrer
put a backhand into the net.  Form held in the third set and it went to a tiebreaker,
where Del Potro raced out to a 4-1 lead.  Ferrer, who lost the French Open final last month to
countryman  Rafael Nadal , battled back to tie at 5-5. Del Potro
regained the lead on Ferrer’s serve, then clinched the victory
with a forehand from out wide into the corner.  David Nalbandian  in 2002 was the last player from Argentina
to reach the Wimbledon semifinals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 