-- More Egypt Bloodshed Inevitable, Former U.S. Aide Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-07-03T15:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/more-egypt-bloodshed-inevitable-former-u-s-aide-says.html
More bloodshed in  Egypt  is inevitable
as President Mohamed Mursi and the  Muslim Brotherhood  fail to
reach an agreement with opposition groups and the country lacks
real leadership or direction, said  Aaron David Miller , a former
top U.S. Middle East official.  “There’s going to be some violence,” Miller said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. The result will be continued
instability in the region’s largest, most powerful state as the
military doesn’t want to govern and the opposition is too
disorganized to lead, he said.  “You have a Muslim Brotherhood presidency that is going to
cling to power,” Miller, a former negotiator on Middle East
peace under President  Bill Clinton , said in  Washington .  The result will be that “the dysfunction and despair and
incompetence that characterizes so much of Arab governance in
the Arab Spring is sadly going to continue,” Miller, currently
a vice president at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars, said in advance of a military-imposed deadline today
for Mursi to establish order.  Mursi defied mass protests demanding his resignation and
called on the military to withdraw its ultimatum to resolve the
country’s political crisis. “If the price of safeguarding
legitimacy is my own blood, I am ready to sacrifice it,” he
said in a speech broadcast on state television. In a last-ditch
bid to retain power, Mursi called just before the deadline for
an interim coalition government even as he reaffirmed his
refusal to step down.  U.S. Challenges  Clashes between Mursi supporters and opponents intensified
as the military deadline neared, with at least 23 people killed
in violence over the past day, including 16 at Cairo University,
according to state-run Egyptian media.  The U.S. faces a range of challenges across the Middle
East, chief among them two situations that pose potential
threats to  Israel , the largest cumulative recipient of U.S. aid,
receiving $118 billion since World War II, according to the
 Congressional Research Service , a nonpartisan arm of Congress.  Egypt’s peace treaty with Israel is a linchpin of U.S.
security policy in the region. The civil war in Syria, now in
its third year, threatens to spill over the border with Israel.  Miller praised President  Barack Obama ’s caution on Syria.
The U.S. has provided almost $510 million in humanitarian aid,
according to the State Department, and more recently has begun
to provide limited lethal assistance to vetted rebel groups.  Obama’s Caution  Obama has “wisely” avoided “intervention in a situation
in which he doesn’t want to get stuck with the check,” Miller
said. The crucial question, learned from U.S. experience in  Iraq 
and  Afghanistan , Miller said, is how using American military
force would affect the end game.  “How does militarizing the American role, how is that
going to contribute to a stable, prosperous, secure, pro-Western
Syria under these circumstances?” Miller asked.  So far, Obama has resisted sending larger arms, such as
anti-aircraft or anti-tank missiles, that rebel leaders and some
members of Congress have pushed the administration to provide to
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s foes.  “Sooner or later, you end up with a situation where an
Israeli airliner, an American airliner is shot down as a
consequence of weapons that are loose or used by other groups
that aren’t carefully vetted,” Miller said.  Miller doesn’t envision Obama changing his mind on the
issue. “The red lines the president has drawn for himself to
contain American intervention in Syria I think are pretty
thick,” he said. “I don’t think they’re going to be crossed.”  Miller also said he sees Assad in power for longer than
“anybody would have expected.”  Staying Power  Assad has the support of Iran, Russia and the terrorist
group Hezbollah, along with control over 100,000 to 150,000
Syrian forces, chemical weapons and the instruments of state
repression. The opposition seeking his ouster has been troubled
by weakness, infighting and dysfunction.  “He can maintain himself in power for some time to come,”
Miller said. “We may have to get used to the fact that even”
if there is a political settlement, “he is going to be in Syria
longer than he deserves to be.”  The U.S. inability to move Assad out of power, after months
of saying he “must go,” harms America’s standing in the
region, Miller said, and sends “a very bad signal.”  U.S. credibility is already at an all-time low as a
consequence of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, Miller said,
because the standard for victory “was never could we win, but
when could we leave?”  Saying ‘No’  Credibility is “the real problem,” Miller said. “We are
not succeeding in the  Middle East  because everybody, almost
without exception, finds it easy, simple and cost-free to say no
to America.” Listing the leaders of Afghanistan, Iraq, Israel
and the  Palestinian Territories , Miller said, “Karzai says no.
Maliki says no. Netanyahu says no. Abbas says no. Everybody says
no to the  United States .”  Iran, Miller said, envisions itself as a great power, a
driving factor in its pursuit of nuclear technology. While Iran
insists the program is for civilian purposes, the U.S. and its
allies charge the Persian nation is seeking to acquire a
nuclear-weapons capability. “I think they want the capacity to
develop a nuclear weapon,” Miller said. “Whether they
actually weaponize and go to weaponization is another matter.”  No Stopping  Regardless, the U.S. can do little to stop that march, he
said. “We couldn’t stop the North Koreans,” Miller said. “We
couldn’t stop the Indians. We couldn’t stop the Pakistanis. The
Israelis developed weapons in part with our acquiescence. If a
power decides that it wants a weapon, has the scientific
technology and the money and the determination, it can
produce.”  Secretary of State  John Kerry , who met with Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  three times each in recent weeks, has been trying
to overcome the Israeli-Palestinian tendency to say “no” to
restarting peace talks.  Miller said he expects the secretary will succeed, at least
in getting the parties back to the table.  “I think he will get talks resumed,” Miller said. “The
question is whether he can keep the parties at the table.”  Miller says one major difficulty is that the two sides
aren’t as invested in the process as they need to be.  “People care only about what they own,” Miller said.
“And until Mahmoud Abbas and  Benjamin Netanyahu  own this
negotiation, no matter how bad Kerry wants it, no matter how bad
Obama wants it, they’re not going to get it.”  Egyptian Opposition  In Egypt, Miller said, the Muslim Brotherhood will resist
what it sees as a repeat of 1990s Algerian history, when the
military and secularists forced democratically elected Islamists
from power. The military, meanwhile, doesn’t want to govern
though it does want to protect the country’s prosperity and
security.  The secular, liberal, young opposition, along with millions
of Egyptians who are tired of Mursi’s leadership, can’t organize
effectively, Miller said.  One lesson the region may draw from Egypt’s turmoil is the
inability of Islamic-oriented governments to meet popular
demands, Miller said. To bolster his point, he pointed to
 Turkey , where another democratically elected, Islamist-oriented
party was the target of popular unrest because of its
authoritarian policies.  “I’m not comparing them,” Miller said, “but yes, this
will set political Islam and its competency and effectiveness in
governance back a ways.”  The situation in Egypt is “likely to get worse before it
gets worse,” Miller said, “because you’ve got a lot of moving
parts.”  Gettysburg Anniversary  On “Political Capital,” Hunt also interviewed author
 Harold Holzer  about the 150th anniversary of the Civil War
Battle of Gettysburg. During three days of fighting from July
1-3, 1863, Union troops defeated Confederate forces and halted
General Robert E. Lee’s plan to invade the North.  The battle, in which more than 40,000 soldiers were killed
or wounded, was a turning point in the war and in President
 Abraham Lincoln ’s political career, said Holzer, a Lincoln
scholar who has written or edited 46 books including “The Civil
War in 50 Objects.”  “The election was a year away, but Lincoln was already in
trouble,” Holzer said. “A successful invasion in the North
would have crippled him politically.”  Lincoln “was cognizant throughout Gettysburg that this was
the decisive moment of the war,” Holzer said. Four months
later, Lincoln delivered his Gettysburg Address at the
dedication of a cemetery for soldiers killed in the battle.  “It’s the most astonishing expression of faith in the
human experiment and the democratic experiment that was ever
rendered,” Holzer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  