-- How ‘God Bless America’ Became America’s Anthem
-- B y   S h e r y l   K a s k o w i t z
-- 2013-07-03T14:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/how-god-bless-america-became-america-s-anthem.html
The “ God Bless America ” that we know
today was forged from collaboration between its composer,  Irving Berlin , and Kate Smith, the performer who first made it famous.
Behind the scenes, though, the two of them battled for control
of the song.  The story begins in 1918, when Berlin was drafted as an
Army private, a few months after he officially became a U.S.
citizen.  While stationed at  Camp Upton  in Yaphank, New York, Berlin
was asked to write a soldier show to raise money for a community
house to be built at the camp. The revue, called “Yip, Yip,
Yaphank,” staged at  New York City ’s Century Theatre, included a
blackface number, satirical spoofs of Army life (including “Oh,
How I Hate to Get Up in the Morning”) and Ziegfeld Follies-style
dance numbers featuring soldiers in drag that one reviewer
characterized as “one long laugh.”  Berlin wrote “God Bless America” as the show’s finale, but
decided to end instead with the upbeat “We’re on Our Way to
 France .” Berlin later said he changed his mind because “God
Bless America” was “too obviously patriotic for soldiers to
sing.” People in the military already amply demonstrate their
patriotism through service, he believed. Patriotic songs were
for civilians.  Stashed Away  So Berlin stashed “God Bless America” in his trunk of
rejected songs, where it lay for 20 years. He got it out in the
fall of 1938, after returning from a trip to  London , where he
had felt the growing tensions in  Europe . He wanted a song that
expressed a feeling of gratitude for the U.S.  About the same time, Smith approached Berlin in search of a
patriotic song to sing on the radio for Armistice Day. Berlin
made changes to “God Bless America” and gave it to Smith, and
she performed it on “ The Kate Smith Hour ” on Nov. 10, and almost
every week after for more than two years.  Smith made a popular record, Berlin sold half a million
copies of the sheet music, and the song became an unofficial
anthem for public gatherings at schools, churches, civic
meetings, concerts and sports events.  That wasn’t the end of the story though. On the contrary,
it was the beginning of the long struggle between the singer and
the composer -- over when it was written, whom it was written
for, why it was popular, and who had the right to perform it.  One source of tension was Smith’s role in the song’s
creation. During her daytime talk show on the day she first sang
it, she said that she had asked Berlin for “a new hymn of praise
and love and allegiance to America” and that the composer had
“worked day after day, night after night, until at last his task
was completed.” Then he sent it to her with a note saying, “Dear
Kate: here it is -- I did the best I could, and it expresses the
way I feel.”  Two years later, an article with Smith’s byline in Pic
magazine rendered the contents of Berlin’s note differently:
“Dear Kate: This song is yours and yours alone,” she said it
said. “I have written so many for everyone to sing but this one
I give to you.”  Berlin objected to both this fabrication and the message it
implied -- that Smith was a central figure in the song’s
crafting. He had already announced, in a July 1940 news release,
that he had composed the song during World War I.  Another point of dispute centered on whether the song’s
overwhelming popularity was due to its inherent quality or to
Smith’s treatment. In a July 1940 profile of Berlin in the  New
York  Times Magazine, the composer said the reason the song
caught on “is that it happens to have a universal appeal. Any
song that has that is bound to be a success.”  Mistaken Caption  In December of that year, a photo caption in a Look
magazine profile of Smith stated that Berlin had originally
given Smith a mere sketch of the song and that her instrumental
arranger had polished it up -- so that by the time she sang it,
it was not the song Berlin had written at Camp Upton. Berlin,
given an opportunity to review proofs before this article was
published, called the assertion “incorrect and really libelous,”
and the caption was fixed. But because of a mechanical error,
some copies of the magazine included the mistaken caption.  Smith’s exclusive right to perform the song became an
additional source of strife. According to Berlin, it was he who
first suggested that early radio performances should be
restricted to Smith. In February 1939, Berlin’s business partner
Saul Bornstein and Smith’s manager Ted Collins agreed that Smith
would have exclusive rights to broadcast the song for eight
weeks.  When the eight weeks were up, Berlin wired Bornstein that
they could no longer withhold requests from other people to
perform the song on important patriotic occasions, but Bornstein
said that it would be wrong to antagonize Smith, as she had made
the song a hit. Berlin argued that the song would have been a
hit even without Smith, but ultimately agreed to give her sole
permission to sing the song outside “educational, religious,
patriotic and charitable non-commercial programs” and except on
national holidays.  In September 1940, Berlin’s office requested that this
modified restriction to Smith be lifted, because the song had
“become part of our national musical life.”  To some extent, the rancor between Smith and Berlin
reflected a cultural clash between urban sophistication and
small-town folksiness. Berlin was associated with the glamorous
vision of the musical spectacle, an escapist dream of luxury
during the Depression years. He was also linked to the Algonquin
Round Table, a group of intellectuals in New York City,
including Edna Ferber,  Dorothy Parker  and  F. Scott Fitzgerald .  Smith lived in a Park Ave. penthouse, yet stood entirely
outside the Round Table’s world. Her radio show focused on the
issues faced by ordinary folks. And she was a target for urban
critics. A 1934 New Yorker profile of her described Smith’s
“throaty contralto, which sentimentalizes even the most
concupiscent torch song” and her “folksy manner (in which the
word ‘something,’ for example, becomes ‘sumpin’).” The writer
observed that Smith hated Broadway, preferred staying home or
visiting suburban movie houses, and hardly ever read.  The two artists’ differences would last a lifetime. After
Smith’s death in 1986, her  obituary  in the New York Times
described her affiliation with “God Bless America” by stating
that in 1938 she had “introduced a new song written expressly
for her by Irving Berlin.” A correction ran a few days later,
after the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers
let the Times know the truth -- to protect the legacy of the
then 98-year-old Berlin.  Yet Smith may have won in the long run. In an online survey
on attitudes about the song, 43 percent of more than 1,800
respondents said they associate “God Bless America” with Kate
Smith, while only a quarter correctly identified its composer as
Irving Berlin.  (Sheryl Kaskowitz writes about music in American culture.
This is adapted from her book, “God Bless America: The
Surprising History of an Iconic Song,” which will be published
July 4 by  Oxford University Press .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Sheryl Kaskowitz at  skGodBlessAmerica@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 