-- P&G Invokes Bollywood in India Toothpaste Battle
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-07-04T10:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/p-g-invokes-bollywood-in-toothpaste-battle-corporate-india.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  is betting on
one of Bollywood’s most popular actors to help it break the
dominance of  Colgate Palmolive Co. (CL)  and Hindustan Unilever Ltd.,
which together control 73 percent of India’s toothpaste market.  The world’s biggest maker of consumer products, which
started selling its Oral-B Pro-health toothpaste in mainly urban
centers in India in June, is using Hindi-movie actor  Madhuri
Dixit-Nene  to endorse the brand. By enlisting mother-of-two
Dixit-Nene, 46, P&G is targeting all age groups, said Harish
Bijoor, who advises companies on brands.  P&G’s success in almost doubling market share for its Oral-B toothbrush brand in Asia’s third-largest economy encouraged
the Cincinnati, Ohio-based company to enter the toothpaste
market that Colgate has controlled for 75 years, said Abhijeet Kundu, an analyst at Antique Stock Broking Ltd. Its plan to
focus on cities, where rival  Dabur India Ltd. (DABUR)  estimates 77
percent of the population use toothpastes, may restrict sales
growth, according to Kundu.  “To get to a market share of even 4 percent or so will be
a Herculean task,” Mumbai-based Kundu said in an interview.
“It will take at least two years for the brand to get
established.”  Colgate has a market share of about 51 percent, while
Hindustan Unilever’s Pepsodent and Close-Up dental creams
control 22 percent of the market, according to Euromonitor
International.  Slowing Economy  The task may get tougher after the $1.8 trillion economy
expanded at the slowest pace in a decade, according to Nitin Mathur, an analyst with Espirito Santo Securities in Mumbai.
 Procter & Gamble Hygiene and Healthcare Ltd. ’s profit growth
slowed and Colgate’s Indian unit reported a drop in its net
income for two straight quarters.  Hindustan Unilever (HUVR)  reported a 15 percent increase in profit
in the three months to March 31. India’s biggest consumer goods
maker posted 270 billion rupees ($4.5 billion) of sales in the
year ended March compared with P&G Hygiene’s 13 billion rupees
in the year ended June 30, 2012.  P&G Hygiene’s  shares , which have risen 6.4 percent this
year, fell 0.3 percent to 2,930 rupees in Mumbai. Colgate-Palmolive (India) Ltd. advanced 2.7 percent to 1,356.7 rupees.  While P&G is selling Oral-B toothpaste in urban areas,
Colgate is seeking to boost its presence in rural India as well.
At least 329 million people, that’s more than the population of
the U.S., live in India’s villages and small towns don’t use
toothpaste, according to a May 28 investor presentation on
Colgate’s website.  Rural Focus  “There’s really a lot of headroom to grow in rural”
areas, Prabha Parameswaran, managing director at Colgate, told
analysts on a call on May 27. “Particular focus has been made
in the last couple of years in driving rural distribution as
rural incomes have been increasing.”  The per capita consumption value of toothpaste in India is
$0.4, compared with $2.9 in  Malaysia  and $2 in  Thailand ,
according to a June  presentation  posted on the Dabur website.
Only about 42 percent of people in the nation’s villages and
small towns use toothpaste, data show.  India’s urban consumers are upgrading to dental creams that
soothe sensitive teeth and have whitening properties, according
to  Manjunath Reddy , a Bangalore-based research analyst with
Euromonitor. That helped the market expand 19 percent to 53
billion rupees last year and may “allow P&G to leverage on the
fact that consumers are continuously upgrading,” he said.  Three-in-One Product  One out of six Indians suffers from sensitive teeth,
according to Colgate’s Parameswaran. The company’s Visible White
toothpaste, which is endorsed by 28-year-old Bollywood actress
 Sonam Kapoor , has been “delivering incremental shares,” she
said.  P&G is selling a toothpaste that packs multiple therapeutic
properties, Ross Strand, a research fellow at P&G said in an
interview in  Mumbai . The dental cream starts at 59 rupees for a
75 gram pack. The company will also sell two other cheaper
variants, P&G said in an e-mail response.  Sensitivity is not a disease, and is a common dental
problem that develops due to receding gums, vigorous tooth
brushing and grinding, according to GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s
 website . Glaxo sells a toothpaste for sensitive teeth under its
Sensodyne brand, and the British company has a 1.1 percent share
of the Indian market.  P&G’s dental cream would have to provide a “functional
improvement” over existing rivals’ products in order to get
customers to shift, said Bangalore-based Bijoor. Most people
tend to buy a particular brand and then stick to it for a long
time, he said.  Reality Show  The maker of Ariel laundry detergent increased its
toothbrush market share to 28.7 percent in 2012 from 16.3 in
2007, according to data from Euromonitor. Colgate’s share
dropped to 28.7 percent from 29.1 in the same period, data show.  P&G is betting Dixit-Nene, who acted in box office hits
such as “Tezaab,” “Parinda” and “Hum Aapke Hain Kaun,”
will help the company replicate the success in the toothpaste
market. The actor who returned to  India  after living in the U.S.
for almost a decade, is a judge on the  Indian version  of the
“Dancing With the Stars” reality television show.  The toothpaste was officially introduced at a glitzy event
at Mumbai’s Shangri-La hotel with a four-minute long movie
touting the benefits of the cream, after which Dixit-Nene
appeared from a revolving door clutching a giant replica of the
Oral-B tube. She wore a floor-length blue dress, matching the
brands’ hue.  By choosing Dixit-Nene, “they’re giving a clue as to what
their market really is like,” said Bijoor in an interview
yesterday. P&G’s choice of a relatively older brand ambassador
suggests that the company is targeting families and older
adults, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  