-- Pakistan’s Sharif Looks to China for Boost on Foreign Debut
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-07-03T08:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/pakistan-s-sharif-seeks-economy-boost-in-china-on-foreign-debut.html
Pakistan Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif 
begins a six-day visit to China today as he seeks investment in
power and transport projects to revive an economy crippled by
electricity shortages and insurgent violence.  In picking Beijing for his first overseas trip since
winning May 11 elections, Sharif is signaling that securing
Chinese funding ranks among his foreign policy priorities as a
slowdown pushes Pakistan toward a fresh International Monetary
Fund bailout. Unrest in the western Chinese province of Xinjiang
which authorities have in the past linked to Islamist training
camps in Pakistan may also be on the agenda.  “Pakistan’s economy is in a critical situation,” Rashid
Ahmed Khan, a professor of international relations at the
University of Sargodha in Punjab, said July 2. “With private
investment flows drying up and Western aid money hard to come
by, Pakistan is turning to an all-weather friend with economic
and strategic interests in the country’s wellbeing.”  The centerpiece of Sharif’s July 3-8 pitch will be a road-and-rail corridor connecting the Arabian Sea port of Gwadar --
control of which was in February transferred to a company
Pakistan named as  China  Overseas Port Holdings Co. -- with
Kashgar in western China.  While Sharif last month called the project a “game
changer” capable of generating revenue and jobs for Pakistan,
financing and security concerns could prove hurdles. The route
would run through Baluchistan province, where anger over
exploitation of gas and minerals has spurred a separatist
insurgency.  China Crude  “Sharif knows that Gwadar has significant geopolitical and
economic importance for China,” Khan said. “It can provide a
short route for Chinese crude imports from the Middle East and
for its exports to the region.”  China, forecast to overtake the U.S. as the world’s top
crude importer in 2014, bought more than 50 percent of its oil
from the  Middle East  last year, customs data show. China
provided $248 million to build the first phase of the port
facility at Gwadar, according to its  official website .  Aside from its trade role, officials in  India  and the U.S.
have seen Gwadar as part of China’s strategic ambition to
project its growing naval power into the  Indian Ocean . The port
was run from 2007 until earlier this year by  Singapore ’s PSA
International Pte.  Returned to power 14 years after being ousted in an army
coup, Sharif is confronting two major challenges: A record
electricity shortage that triggers outages of as long as 18
hours a day and militancy that has spiked following the killing
of the Pakistani Taliban’s No. 2 commander in a U.S. drone
missile strike.  Economy ‘Shattered’  In his June budget Finance Minister Ishaq Dar described the
economy as “shattered,” pledging to narrow the widest fiscal
deficit in over two decades and ease power-sector debt.  Pakistan 
expected to approach the IMF for “anything between $5 billion
to $7 billion,” he told Bloomberg two weeks later.  Foreign-exchange reserves have slid over 40 percent from a
year earlier, according to the central bank, only enough to
cover about two months of imports. Sharif is aiming for 4.4
percent economic growth next fiscal year, up from an estimated
3.6 percent in 2012-2013.  Bombings in two provinces bordering  Afghanistan  killed at
least 45 people at the weekend, while two Chinese were among a
party of 10 mountaineers and guides killed last month in what
the Taliban said was revenge for the death of its deputy, Waliur
Rehman.  Fighter Jets  Sharif is set to meet with at least three of the seven men
on the Communist Party’s Politburo Standing Committee, the panel
that wields supreme power in China, including President  Xi
Jinping , Premier  Li Keqiang  and top legislator  Zhang Dejiang ,
Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters July 1.  Li visited Pakistan in May. Sharif’s predecessor  Yousuf
Raza Gilani  traveled to Beijing in May, 2011, a trip that led to
the announcement of Pakistani purchases of Chinese fighter
aircraft. Hua said China supports Pakistan’s goal of building
the Gwadar-Kashgar link, calling it a project that “will help
both countries as well as the development of the whole region.”  Among the other proposals Sharif will bring to Beijing are
for a new 1,100 megawatt nuclear power plant and the release of
a $448 million Chinese loan to build a hydropower project,  The
Express Tribune  reported July 2, without saying where it got the
information.  China “hopes to promote pragmatic cooperation with
Pakistan in various areas,” the Chinese Foreign Ministry’s Hua
said today, when asked about the nuclear proposal.  Xinjiang Violence  China helped Pakistan build two atomic reactors at Chashma
in Punjab province, while Beijing is assisting in building two
more units at the same site. About 120 Chinese companies are
operating in Pakistan with Chinese investment touching $2
billion in 2012, according to Pakistan’s foreign office.  Pakistan’s growing dependence on China follows years of
strained relations with the U.S. amid the war in Afghanistan and
American targeting of Pakistani guerrillas.  Violence in Xinjiang late last month left at least 35
people dead, raising tensions in a region where Chinese
authorities have blamed attacks on extremists drilled in
Pakistan at camps run by the East Turkestan Islamic Movement.  Recent violence in Xinjiang was instigated by foreign
forces, Hua said today. She said Pakistan has made “great
efforts to fight terrorism.”  “This is a source of serious concern to China,” said
 Talat Masood , a retired Pakistani army general and independent
political analyst, in an interview July 1. “It has not spoken
much in public but for sure in official, private meetings it has
expressed concern.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  