-- Peace With Kurds at Risk as Erdogan Reels From Protests
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-07-03T08:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/peace-with-kurds-at-risk-as-erdogan-reels-from-protests.html
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s
crackdown on anti-government protests in western  Turkey  may make
it harder for him to offer concessions to Kurds in the
southeast, where he’s trying to end a three-decade war.  Kurdish militants have already begun leaving the region
after the government started talks with the Kurdistan Workers’
Party, or PKK, which has been fighting there since 1984. Erdogan
has promised wider freedoms for Kurds, who are seeking a degree
of self-rule, without saying what form they will take.  Since anti-government protests erupted in May, Erdogan has
adopted a more nationalist tone. As demonstrators accused him of
authoritarian rule, he responded by denouncing extremists and
terrorists among them, pointing to PKK flags among the crowds in
Istanbul’s Taksim Square. With Turkey increasingly polarized,
Erdogan may delay measures needed to end a conflict that Finance
Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said last week has cost the economy $1
trillion.  “In this environment, it is very unlikely the government
will grant significant concessions and reach an ultimate peace
deal to fully resolve the Kurdish problem,” said Naz Masraff,
an analyst at political-risk assessor Eurasia Group in  London .
“Erdogan will try to concede minor rights to the Kurds”
through amendments to the constitution, with more substantial
measures delayed until at least next year when local and
presidential elections are due, she said.  That should be enough to “prevent an immediate return to
PKK violence,” according to Masraff  Kurdish Support  Erdogan, 59, has made solving the Kurdish conflict, which
has left tens of thousands dead, a central aim as he enters his
second decade in power after presiding over  economic growth 
averaging about 5 percent and record foreign investment. The
 peace process  is “difficult” and needs an “iron will,”
Erdogan said yesterday. Turkey also has improved ties with the
Kurds who control oil-rich northern  Iraq .  Other plans include an overhaul of the presidency to
strengthen its powers, which may need the support of Kurdish
lawmakers, and the redevelopment of central Istanbul, which
sparked last month’s protests. Since they began on May 31,
Turkey’s  benchmark stock index  has fallen 13.7 percent and the
lira has weakened 3.7 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  No Agreement  The government and Kurdish leaders, including jailed PKK
chief  Abdullah Ocalan , have agreed on initial steps, including
the withdrawal of the group’s fighters from Turkey. About 20
percent of an estimated 2,000 militants have returned to bases
in northern Iraq since the pullout started on May 8, Deputy
Prime Minister Bekir Bozdag said last week.  There’s no accord on the shape of a final settlement and
signs of mistrust persist on both sides.  The pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party, which has links
to the PKK, held rallies over the weekend in Diyarbakir, the
largest city in the Kurdish southeast, and the southern
provinces of Mersin and Adana, where many Kurds migrated during
the 1990s when fighting was at its peak. They labeled the
campaign “Government, Take a Step!”  Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay told Kanal 7 television
on June 30 that the campaign, which claimed inaction by the
government, is “seriously damaging the process.”  Political Struggle  “I don’t think it is useful for the future of the
process,” Atalay said, hours after police used tear gas to
disperse thousands of Kurds in Diyarbakir for carrying illegal
PKK banners and portraits of Ocalan. Tensions mounted after the
killing of a demonstrator during a protest against plans for an
army outpost north of Diyarbakir on June 28.  Erdogan said yesterday that the protest was in retaliation
to a military crackdown on the hashish and marijuana trade. “No
sabotage or provocation will prevent us from seeking a
solution,” Erdogan said. “However, we are not going to turn a
blind eye to drug lords because of that.”  Bulent Arinc, another of the four deputy prime ministers,
has accused the PKK of delaying the departure of its most
“dynamic” men. In a move designed to fool any security forces
tracking their communications, the PKK has sent radios across
the Iraqi border, Milliyet newspaper said on July 1, citing
intelligence reports.  “We are not asleep,” Arinc said on June 27. “This is a
very difficult process.”  Erdogan’s overtures may include removing clauses regarding
Turkish ethnicity in the constitution and enhancing the powers
of local authorities, Eurasia Group’s Masraff said.  Nationalist Backlash  It’s not clear whether such steps would satisfy Kurds who
demand autonomy, or whether a special status for the southeast
would be acceptable to the rest of the nation.  The Peace and Democracy Party is pushing for abolition of
terrorism laws used to jail thousands of Kurds for alleged ties
to the PKK. It also wants the reduction of the 10 percent vote
threshold for entering  parliament , a demand that Erdogan has
ruled out, according to Milliyet newspaper.  Another demand is for recognition of the houses of worship
of the Alevi religious minority, many of whom are Kurds. Arinc
said last week the government won’t consider that. The PKK wants
an amnesty for fighters that would eventually encompass Ocalan,
long labeled a “baby-killer” by Turkish media.  Such demands risk the kind of nationalist backlash that
derailed Erdogan’s last Kurdish initiative in 2009.  Celal Adan, deputy chairman of the Nationalist Action
Party, or MHP, the third biggest in parliament, on June 26 said
Erdogan’s party was yielding to PKK demands under the “lie of
democratization.”  “If they come to the parliament with such a dishonorable
bill, we will make those responsible regret it,” he said.  Public Opinion  Devlet Bahceli, leader of the MHP, accused Erdogan’s party
of encouraging terrorism by engaging Ocalan, who’s imprisoned on
the island of Imrali outside Istanbul. “Every concession by the
AKP opens a scourge on our heads,” he told his party on July 1.
“When Prime Minister Erdogan negotiates with the monster of
Imrali, separatist cannibals get excited and believe they’re
going to succeed.”  To gauge and prepare  public opinion , Erdogan has turned to
advisers over the past two months. He told them on June 26 that
the government is ready to eliminate tens of thousands of
Kurdish village guards, who had been paid and armed to fight the
PKK, and to allow education in Kurdish in some private schools,
Milliyet said. Turkey has already allowed elective Kurdish
courses and broadcasting in the language.  The groups of so-called wise people committees included
academics, journalists and artists -- some of the groups that
Erdogan has hit out at for involvement in the protests. He has
blamed teachers for encouraging their students to join in, the
media for distorting coverage, and television performers for
attendance at rallies.  It will require “substantial amounts of political capital
to provide vital concessions to the PKK,” said Oliver Coleman,
an analyst for the  Middle East  and North Africa at Maplecroft, a
risk analysis company in Bath,  England . “Dealing with the
protests has reduced Erdogan’s ability to move quickly or
relatively unchallenged on these issues, and any severe delay
increases the risks of a resumption in hostilities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  