-- Pebble Smartwatch to Hit Best Buy Stores July 7
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-07-03T18:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/pebble-smartwatch-to-hit-best-buy-stores-july-7.html
Pebble Technology Corp. , a watch
maker that raised more than $10.2 million on crowdfunding
website Kickstarter, will beat  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  into stores with its smartwatch.  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  will exclusively begin selling Pebble’s black
smartwatch in its stores on July 7, according to a statement
yesterday from Pebble. The $150 watch, which is compatible with
devices that run both Apple’s iOS and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
mobile software, is already available on Best Buy’s and Pebble’s
websites.  The retail debut of Pebble’s wearable device follows Apple
filing a request June 3 in  Japan  to trademark the “iWatch”
name, while Samsung in March said it was also working on a
smartwatch. Neither company has discussed details or said when
the watches might go on sale.  Sony Corp. (6758)  has sold its
SmartWatch, which wirelessly connects to phones using Android,
for more than a year.  Best Buy approached Pebble last year about selling the
smartwatch in its stores, Pebble Chief Executive Officer Eric Migicovsky said. Pebble has sold more than 100,000 of the
devices since the company held its Kickstarter campaign in 2012.  “In order to break through and get into other markets, we
knew that we needed to go beyond our standard website
shipping,” Migicovsky said in an interview. “We decided to
partner with Best Buy because we think Best Buy has a good grip
on the wearable-technology space.”  Consumer Demand  There are more than 1,100 apps available for Pebble,
Migicovsky said in an interview on “Bloomberg West.”  “The Pebble moving into retail stores does show some proof
of consumer demand, but it’s important to remember that Pebble
units sold over the last year are still only around 100,000,”
said Brian Blair, an analyst at Wedge Partners Corp. in New
York.  Apple may not introduce a smartwatch unless the iPhone
maker sees a significant market opportunity, Blair said.  Apple didn’t return a call seeking comment, while Samsung
representatives didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail.  According to technology market-research firm ABI Digital,
1.2 million smartwatches will be sold globally this year with
sales of $370 million. ABI projects that smartwatch sales will
increase 20-fold by 2015.  Pebble smartwatches in red will be available in Best Buy
stores in August, while more colors -- orange, grey, and white -
-  will be available on Pebble’s website, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  