-- Peter Madoff Refuses to Answer Questions in London Lawsuit
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-07-03T15:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/peter-madoff-refuses-to-answer-questions-in-london-lawsuit.html
Bernard Madoff ’s younger brother,
repeatedly refused to answer questions in a lawsuit filed by the
liquidators of Madoff’s U.K. unit seeking $50 million from the
convicted conman’s family and associates.  Peter Madoff, testifying via a video link from a U.S.
prison, told the  London  court that he would invoke his U.S.
Fifth amendment right against self-incrimination. He refused to
discuss payments totalling $300 million from the U.K. unit to
his brother’s family, his own plea bargain to U.S. criminal
charges, and his duties at the company’s U.K. unit.  Madoff Securities International Ltd. in London was owned
almost exclusively by Madoff and served as his proprietary
trading unit. More than $910 million was transferred between the
London unit and Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC in
 New York  from the time of the office’s founding in 1983 until
firm’s collapse in December 2008, the liquidators said when they
filed the lawsuit in 2010.  The 67-year-old  Peter Madoff , dressed in a dark jacket,
answered a few questions before invoking his U.S. Constitutional
rights. He confirmed the U.K. liquidators had dropped him as a
defendant in the case as one of the directors of the London
unit. He also said that the U.K. company was set up to expand
the U.S. trading business in  Europe .  The defendants -- including Bernard Madoff’s son Andrew,
former Bank Medici AG chairwoman Sonja Kohn and 75-year-old
former SG Warburg executive Stephen Raven -- deny knowing of any
wrongdoing and say they too are victims. Liquidators are seeking
to recover about $50 million, including payments for a luxury
yacht and an Aston Martin sports car.  150 Years  Bernard Madoff, 75, is serving a 150-year sentence for what
prosecutors said was the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history.
Liquidators of his companies have sued banks, feeder funds, and
Madoff’s employees to recover some of the $17 billion lost by
victims.  Ponzi schemes use funds from new investors to pay
artificially high returns to existing ones. Without a genuine
source of income, they can collapse without new customers or if
investors start withdrawing money.  Irving Picard , the U.S. trustee appointed to liquidate
Madoff’s assets in 2008, has described Madoff Securities
International as a “critical piece of the facade of legitimacy
that Madoff constructed.”  The case is Madoff Securities International Ltd. v. Raven,
10-1468,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division (London)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  