-- Poland Cuts Rates to Record as Economy Outlook Ends Easing
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-07-03T17:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/poland-cuts-main-interest-rate-to-record-low-as-easing-nears-end.html
Poland ’s central bank cut borrowing
costs to a record low and said the cycle of interest-rate
reductions was over with the European Union’s largest eastern
economy poised to recover.  The 10-person Monetary Policy Council lowered the  reference
rate  by a quarter point to 2.5 percent today, matching the
estimate of 38 of 39 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One
predicted rates would stay unchanged. Rates should remain at
current level “at least” until the end of the year, Governor
 Marek Belka  said after the decision.  Poland has cut borrowing costs by 2.25 percentage points
since November as the economy slowed. Since a four-year low in
the first quarter,  retail sales  unexpectedly rose, manufacturing
expanded and  business confidence  in  Germany , Poland’s biggest
export market, improved for a second month in June.  “The worst is over for the Polish economy,” Belka told
reporters at a news conference in Warsaw. “We are now going to
see a gradual recovery and the end of the easing cycle is a
certain expression of the MPC’s optimism.”  The zloty strengthened 0.6 percent to 4.3107 per euro at
5:39 p.m. in Warsaw. The yield on the two-year government bond
rose two basis points to 2.98 percent.  Borrowing costs will now stay unchanged until at least the
third quarter of next year, according to a Bloomberg survey of
11 economists.  Rate Outlook  Rates will be held until “inflation rises persistently
above 2 percent, which may take more than a year,”  Mateusz Szczurek , chief economist for central and eastern  Europe  at ING
Groep NV in Warsaw, said in an e-mailed report before the
decision.  A new projection by the central bank staff released today
showed inflation will probably reach 0.6 to 1.1 percent this
year and 0.4 to 2 percent in 2014. Policy makers target a
medium-term rate of 2.5 percent, with a tolerance range of 1
percentage point in either direction.  The central bank also lowered its forecast for economic
growth through 2015. It expects expansion in a range of 0.5
percent to 1.7 percent this year and 1.2 percent to 3.5 percent
next, according to the  statement .  “There is a good chance that today’s cut was indeed the
last in the cycle,” Nora Szentivanyi, an economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co, said in e-mailed comment today. “That said, it is
somewhat surprising that the NBP is sending such an explicit
message about ending its easing cycle when it expects inflation
to remain firmly below its target for an extended period.”  Regional Easing  Central bankers across eastern Europe have been easing
monetary policy as the euro area’s debt crisis saps demand for
exports. Hungary delivered its 11th consecutive quarter-point
cut last week, while  Romania  lowered borrowing costs for the
first time in more than a year yesterday. Unlike Poland today,
both indicated further reductions were possible.  Economic growth has showed signs of improvement.  Retail
sales (PORSYOY)  unexpectedly increased 0.5 percent in May after falling
0.2 percent the previous month as the jobless rate dropped to
13.5 percent from 14 percent. The purchasing managers’ index, a
gauge of manufacturing, rose to 49.3 in June from 48 in May,
beating economist forecasts as new orders grew for the first
time since January 2012.  “We are seeing that for some time now the slowdown hasn’t
been deepening,” Belka said at the conference. “There are
reasons to believe that the economy is alive and not doing badly
at all. Obviously, we are waiting for more solid recovery
because that’s the only thing that will satisfy us.”  Fed Effect  The U.S. Federal Reserve signaled it may begin to remove
monetary stimulus if the recovery in the world’s biggest economy
gains traction. The move has led to a sell-off in emerging-market bonds and currencies.  Foreign investors sold 2 percent of their Polish government
bond holdings in June, the  Finance Ministry  said last week. The
zloty, which slid to its weakest level in a year on June 21,
lost 3.4 percent in the second quarter, its worst performance
since the third quarter of 2011.  The capital outflow and the currency weakening were
“moderate” and there were no reasons for “excessive”
concern, according to Belka.  “The impact of recent zloty weakening on inflation and GDP
is comparable with a 50 basis-point cut,” Radoslaw Bodys, chief
economist at PKO Bank Polski SA, wrote yesterday in an e-mailed
report. “The change in global market conditions coupled with a
deeply divided MPC and the significant scope of monetary easing
so far suggest that it’s the right moment to end the cycle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  