-- Portugal’s Coalition Splinters on Austerity Fatigue
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2013-07-03T13:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/portugal-s-coalition-splinters-on-austerity-fatigue-euro-credit.html
Portuguese borrowing costs topped 8
percent for the first time this year after two ministers quit,
signaling the government will struggle to implement further
budget cuts as its bailout program enters its final 12 months.  Secretary of State for Treasury Maria Luis  Albuquerque 
replaced Vitor Gaspar at the Ministry of Finance. That prompted
Paulo Portas, who leads the smaller CDS party in the coalition
government, to quit, saying the new minister would offer “mere
continuity” of the country’s deficit-cutting plans.  “It sounds the alarm bell of austerity fatigue,” said
 David Schnautz , a strategist at Commerzbank AG in New York.
“This domestic noise is definitely negative.”  Portugal’s  10-year (GSPT10YR)  bond yield jumped above 8 percent today
for the first time since Nov. 27. The rate was 7.84 percent at
2:40 p.m. London time. The nation pays an average 3.2 percent
for loans it received as part of the aid package.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is battling rising
unemployment and a deepening recession as he cuts spending and
increases taxes to meet terms of a 78 billion-euro ($101
billion) rescue plan monitored by the European Union, the
International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank, known
as the Troika. Coelho announced measures on May 3 intended to
generate savings of about 4.8 billion euros through 2015 that
include reducing the number of state workers.  Coelho Speech  “I will try to clarify and guarantee with the CDS party
all the conditions for the stability of the government and to
proceed with the strategy of overcoming the nation’s crisis,”
Coelho said in a speech last night, adding that he has no plans
to resign.  The  difference  in yield that investors demand to hold 10-year Portuguese bonds instead of German bunds is about 617 basis
points, exceeding this year’s average of 461. The gap is down
from a euro-era record of 16 percentage points in January 2012.  “The issue at stake here is whether the present government
follows policies of fiscal responsibility or not,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , head of European rates strategy at Societe Generale SA
in Paris. “The public seems to imagine a better deal with the
Troika can be struck, as if Greece and Cyprus are not sufficient
warning.”  The eighth review of Portugal’s aid program is due to start
on July 15, the Finance Ministry said on June 19.  Government Tensions  Coelho said he didn’t accept Portas’s resignation and
hasn’t asked President Anibal Cavaco Silva to dismiss his
partner, citing the foreign affairs minister’s role as leader of
a coalition party.  President Cavaco Silva will meet with Coelho tomorrow and
will also meet the country’s political parties following the
foreign minister’s resignation request, the presidency said on
its website today.  “Portas’s resignation is likely to prove final, and he
seems to have the solid backing of both his party and its
supporters,” Mujtaba Rahman, a London-based analyst at Eurasia
Group, said in a note today.  Social Security Minister Pedro Mota Soares and Agriculture
Minister Assuncao Cristas will hand in their resignations to
Coelho today after a meeting of the CDS party’s executive
commission, broadcaster TVI reported on its website last night,
without saying how it obtained the information. Both ministers
are from Portas’s CDS party.  “The grand bargain in the euro zone is that the strong,
notably  Germany  and the ECB, support the weak and that the weak
accept the conditions attached to such support,” Christian Schulz, an economist at Berenberg Bank in London, wrote in a
note following the Portuguese resignations. “If one country
were to lose the political will to stay the course, tensions in
the euro zone could rise again.”  Market Return  Portugal  has planned to return to the bond markets with the
country’s aid package scheduled to end in June 2014. The nation
sold 10-year bonds on May 7 for the first time in more than two
years as a global decline in interest rates spurred demand for
higher-yielding assets. Portugal had stopped selling bonds until
this year after requesting the bailout in April 2011.  The country has started the pre-financing for 2014 and
already has all of the funds it needs for this year, Gaspar said
on May 7. The country’s debt is ranked below investment grade by
Fitch Ratings, Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s.  “Ambiguity over the medium term financing plans is still
something of a challenge,” Eurasia’s Rahman said.  A deeper recession and higher unemployment levels are
“exacerbating social and political tensions and, in turn,
testing the government’s resolve to continue with adjustment
policies and reforms,” the IMF said June 13 in a staff report
about the seventh review of the aid program.  Big Challenges  “The risks and challenges of the near future are
enormous,” Gaspar wrote in his resignation letter dated July 1.
“They demand government cohesion.”  The EU may consider extending the deadline for Portugal to
meet its deficit targets if economic conditions worsen, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, head of the group of euro-area finance ministers,
said on May 27. Dijsselbloem said the government hasn’t yet
requested another change of timetables and targets.  The assumption is that “problems within the Portuguese
coalition can be solved, and that the coalition remains
committed to the program,” Dijsselbloem said today to lawmakers
in The Hague.  Any new government is likely to accept the EU’s aid program
as the opposition Socialist Party has voted with the governing
coalition on key policy decisions including the European
Stability Mechanism treaty, though Socialist leader Antonio Jose Seguro wants to renegotiate the existing aid package.  On March 15, the government announced less ambitious
targets for narrowing the budget deficit as it forecast the
economy will shrink twice as much as previously estimated this
year. It targets a deficit of 5.5 percent of gross domestic
product in 2013, 4 percent in 2014 and below the EU’s 3 percent
limit in 2015, when it aims for a 2.5 percent gap. Portugal
forecasts  debt  will peak at 123.7 percent of GDP in 2014.  Gaspar’s resignation shows the risk of reforms faltering,
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Chief
Economist Pier Carlo Padoan said yesterday at the Lisbon Council
in Brussels. “Fatigue may suddenly erupt and the temptation to
go backward may be very, very strong,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert in  London  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  