-- Portugal’s Coelho Keeps Coalition Backing After Portas Quits
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a ,   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-07-05T17:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/portas-aims-to-heal-rift-in-portuguese-coalition-as-yields-surge.html
Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said he still has the support of the CDS party
after the leader of his junior coalition partner quit as foreign
minister this week.  CDS party leader Paulo Portas’s decision to resign was
“personal” and doesn’t undermine the conservative party’s
support for the government, Coelho said in Lisbon late
yesterday. Coelho, who leads the Social Democrats, needs the CDS
for a majority in parliament to pass measures and meet terms of
a bailout from the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund  that ends in a year’s time.  “It’s very important that  Portugal  is able to stabilize
the political situation after scoring an own goal, and create
the prerequisites for economic success,” EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters today in
Mikkeli,  Finland .  Portas, a former journalist, quit on July 2 in a dispute
over budget policy with the prime minister. Coelho, who lost
Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar the day before, refused to accept
the resignation, citing Portas’s role as leader of a coalition
party. Portas remains in the Cabinet because Coelho hasn’t
submitted his resignation to the president.  Yields Fall  “A way will be found to guarantee the government has
political support from the CDS party and in that manner ensure
political stability,” Coelho said yesterday. “As head of
government I will now seek from the two parties a reinforcement
of political support for the government.”  Portugal’s bond yields fell today after the 10-year rate
jumped to a seven-month high of more than 8 percent earlier this
week after the rift emerged. The yield dropped 14 basis points
to 7.13 percent in  London . That’s up from 6.45 percent on June
28, the last trading day before Gaspar resigned on July 1, and
from 5.19 percent on May 21, the lowest in almost three years.
The country pays 3.2 percent on its bailout loans.  Portugal’s credit rating outlook was revised today to
negative from stable by  Standard & Poor’s , which affirmed the
country’s BB long-term sovereign rating. Its debt is ranked
below investment grade by  Fitch Ratings , Moody’s Investors
Service and S&P.  “This week’s ministerial resignations complicate
Portugal’s already challenging policy-making environment and
suggest even less room for maneuver than when we changed the
rating outlook to stable in March 2013,” S&P said in a
statement. “We believe that growing political uncertainty could
derail Portugal’s forthcoming debt issuance and its hoped-for
exit in 2014 from the support program.”  Assessing ‘Situation’  Coelho said Portuguese President Anibal Cavaco Silva, who’s
also from his  Social Democratic Party , will assess the
“situation.” Cavaco Silva will start meetings with leaders of
the political parties on July 8.  Preparing for the period after the country’s aid program
ends in June 2014 “is of the greatest importance for our
future, independently of the government that is in office in
June 2014,”  Cavaco Silva  said at a conference in Lisbon today.
“The demands of  budget  rigor will not disappear with the end of
the ongoing adjustment program.”  The eighth review of Portugal’s progress on meeting terms
of the 78 billion-euro ($100 billion) aid program is due to
start July 15, the  Finance Ministry  said last month. The
government has started raising cash to finance its 2014 deficit
after covering its needs for this year, then-Finance Minister
Gaspar said in May.  Deepening Recession  “The tasks of implementing the program have been made more
difficult,”  Marco Buti , head of the European Commission’s
economics department, said today at the conference in Lisbon.
“A lot of progress has been made, let’s not jeopardize that.”  Coelho is battling rising  joblessness  and a deepening
recession as he cuts spending and raises taxes to meet the terms
of the bailout. He announced measures on May 3 intended to
generate savings of about 4.8 billion euros through 2015 that
include reducing the number of state workers.  Last year, the two coalition parties overcame disagreements
to hold their alliance together. They differed on a plan to
raise the social security  tax  rate, which was later scrapped by
Prime Minister Coelho. The two parties said on Sept. 20 that
they would set up a Coalition Coordination Council to improve
cooperation.  Election Demand  Portas this week opposed the prime minister’s decision to
name Secretary of State for the Treasury Maria Luis  Albuquerque 
as finance minister to replace Gaspar. Pedro Mota Soares and
Assuncao Cristas, ministers from the CDS group, won’t follow
Portas in stepping down, Luis Queiro, a party official, said on
July 3.  Opposition Socialist leader Antonio Jose Seguro, whose
party led Coelho’s  Social Democrats  by 14 percentage points in a
poll last month, has called for early elections.  Coelho formed the majority coalition with the CDS party
after June 2011 elections, taking over from a Socialist minority
government that had requested the EU-led bailout in April 2011.
Coalition governments in Portugal have tended to be unstable and
short-lived. Between 1974, when the country returned to
democracy after a four-decade dictatorship, and the 2011
election, Portugal had six coalition governments, none of which
survived a full term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  