-- Portugal Leads Rise in European Bond Risk as Coalition Crumbles
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-07-03T11:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/portugal-leads-european-bond-risk-higher-as-coalition-splinters.html
Contracts protecting against losses
on Portuguese sovereign and corporate bonds led increases in
 Europe ’s credit-default swap markets as the nation’s borrowing
costs jumped.  Swaps insuring  Portugal ’s sovereign debt surged as much as
105 basis points to 507, the biggest advance since May 2010 and
the highest level in eight months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Contracts on EDP-Energias de Portugal SA, the
country’s biggest utility, climbed 61 basis points to 394 basis
points at 12:25 p.m. in  London , while Banco Comercial Portugues
SA increased 49 basis points to 596 and Banco Espirito Santo SA
rose 47 basis points to 562.  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield topped 8 percent for the
first time this year after two ministers quit the coalition
government, putting budget cuts at risk as the country works to
meet the terms of its bailout program. Rating downgrades of
European banks and unrest in  Egypt  also drove up credit risk.  “Portugal is almost certainly going to become a crisis,”
 Bill Blain , a strategist at Mint Partners Ltd in London, wrote
in a note to clients today. “When politicians walk away from
government, you know a new election is coming. That’s the point
economic reform dies.”  The cost of insuring European corporate debt against
default rose to the highest in a week, signaling deterioration
in perceptions of  credit quality .  Credit Risk  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of default swaps on 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings climbed 21 basis
points to 477. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings added 5 basis points to reach 119.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers increased 13 basis points to 176 and the
subordinated index rose 20 to 262.  Swaps on Barclays Plc gained 10 basis points to 165 after
 Standard & Poor’s  cut its  credit rating  to A from A+. The
ratings company said the London-based bank, along with Deutsche
Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, are among the most exposed
to proposed regulatory rules that could threaten revenue.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13 million) of debt from default for five years
is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  New Issues  In the new issue market today,  GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , Europe’s
biggest utility by market value, plans to sell about 2 billion
euros equivalent of hybrid bonds, according to a person familiar
with the transaction, who asked not to be identified because the
details are private.  The Courbevoie, France-based company is selling the bonds
in three parts, the person said. The company can buy back the
two euro-denominated portions after five and eight years, while
the notes in pounds are callable after 5 1/2 years. GDF is also
offering to buy back as much as 1.3 billion euros of notes due
2015 to 2020, the company said in a statement today.  Companies have sold a record 13.6 billion euros of hybrid
bonds this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
securities combining elements of debt with equity allow them to
bolster capital without diluting shareholders.  The average yield investors demand to hold investment-grade
corporate bonds in euros fell to 2.22 percent after reaching a
seven-month high of 2.38 percent on June 24, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. The notes lost 1.57 percent in
June, the worst returns since November 2011, according to the
data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  