-- Public Service Sues AIG, Allianz Over Sandy Coverage
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-07-03T19:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/public-service-enterprise-sues-aig-allianz-over-sandy-losses.html
Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG) ,
the largest provider of gas and electric service in  New Jersey ,
sued 11 insurers, including  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
over losses from  Hurricane Sandy .  PSE&G, which provides electricity to 2.2 million customers
in New Jersey, claimed storm damage to its facilities of $426
million while the insurers say their liability for flood losses
in designated zones is $50 million, according to the complaint
filed June 18 in state Superior Court in Newark.  Damage caused by Sandy’s storm surge was the result of a
“named windstorm” under the policies and shouldn’t be subject
to limits on flood coverage, according to the complaint. Sandy
crashed ashore in New Jersey on Oct. 29, leaving 2.7 million
people in the state without power, severely damaging some
coastal towns and crippling mass transit.  “The losses caused by Superstorm Sandy’s ensuing storm
surge were caused by named windstorm and are not subject to any
flood sublimits under such policies,” according to the
complaint.  The defendants include AIG’s National Union Fire Insurance
Co. of Pittsburgh; Allianz Global Risks U.S. Insurance Co., a
unit of  Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s largest insurer; Liberty Mutual
Holding Co.;  Ace Ltd. (ACE) ’s Ace American Insurance Co.; and  Swiss Re
Ltd. (SREN)   Insurance Contracts  “We are committed to promptly and fairly resolving Sandy
related claims,” Cora Lee Klena, a Swiss Re spokeswoman, said
in an e-mailed statement. “We take all insurance matters very
seriously, and we treat all insurance contracts as confidential
agreements with each of our clients. We cannot disclose or
discuss the contractual elements of this matter.”  Spokesmen for AIG, Liberty Mutual, Allianz and Ace declined
to comment on the suit.  PSE&G, based in Newark, had $250 million in primary
coverage and $750 million in excess coverage, according to the
complaint.  In its complaint, PSE&G said that only the National Union
policy limits the liability to flood damage.  Oversee Operations  Governor  Chris Christie  has said it will cost $36.9 billion
to repair the damage from Sandy and prevent future devastation.  PSE&G will take over operations of the Long Island Power
Authority, leaving the state-owned utility without any day-to-day responsibilities after thousands of its customers were left
without power for weeks by Sandy.  Under the agreement, which needs legislative approval, the
New York Department of Public Service would oversee PSE&G’s New
York operations, New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said. Public
Service was awarded a 10-year contract in 2011 to manage the
authority’s power lines and distribution systems starting next
year.  Cuomo’s plan to expand the role of Public Service was
revealed May 1 at a meeting of the governor’s Cabinet. Cuomo
criticized the authority’s response to Sandy, saying in November
that its management failed.  The case is Public Service Enterprise Group v. Ace American
Insurance, L-4951-13, Superior Court of New Jersey, Essex County
( Newark ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 