-- Raffles Medical May Buy Centers to Tap Spending: Southeast Asia
-- B y   K e n n e t h   F o o   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-07-03T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/raffles-medical-may-buy-centers-to-tap-spending-southeast-asia.html
Raffles Medical Group Ltd. (RFMD) ,
 Singapore ’s second-largest private medical-services provider,
may seek acquisitions to capitalize on rising health-care
spending in  Asia  after expansion plans stalled.  The company will consider buying a small center in
Singapore offering specialized services if there are suitable
opportunities, Chief Financial Officer Lui Chong Chee said in a
telephone interview from the city-state. He declined to identify
potential targets.  “There is still a tremendous amount of opportunities,
whether in Singapore or China, for us to expand the provision of
health care,” Lui said July 2. “There is wealth in Asia, and
demographics are looking good in terms of  population growth  plus
the aging population.”  Raffles Medical joins  Religare Health Trust (RHT)  and  IHH
Healthcare Bhd. (IHH) , Asia’s biggest health-care provider by market
value, in tapping industry sales that’s forecast to almost
triple within five years. Hospital revenues in the Asia-Pacific
region will climb to $1.09 trillion by 2017 from $377.9 billion
last year, aided by rising incomes and prevalence of chronic
diseases, according a June 5  report  by  Frost & Sullivan .  The company still hopes the Singapore government will
approve plans first proposed three years ago to expand its
flagship hospital in the city-state, Lui said. Raffles Medical
is a lot closer to getting approval for the project, which will
boost the facility’s space by about one-third from 300,000
square feet currently, he said, without specifying a time frame.  Lui declined to comment on the delay, as did Melissa Lee, a
spokeswoman at the  Urban Redevelopment Authority , the government
agency responsible for approving such projects.  Rejected Conversion  Singapore authorities rejected the hospital operator’s
proposal to convert part of a building near the city’s Orchard
Road shopping belt into a medical center, Raffles Medical  said 
in March. It has since put up the property for sale.  Raffles Medical was also among companies that lost a bid
for a hospital site in Hong Kong to IHH and NWS Holdings Ltd. in
March. IHH’s Parkway Holdings Pte. operates the Gleneagles and
Mount Elizabeth hospitals in Singapore, and beat Raffles Medical
in another hospital site auction in the city five years ago.  Raffles Medical generates almost all its earnings in
Singapore, where it runs Raffles Hospital and 78 clinics,
according to its  website . The company also has medical centers
in  Hong Kong  and  Shanghai .  “Taking a more aggressive approach in regional expansion
is important in the medium to longer term phase as there is a
limit to how much you can grow in Singapore eventually,” James Koh, an analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Holdings Ltd. in Singapore,
said by telephone yesterday.  Analyst Ratings  The brokerage is one of six  recommending  investors buy
Raffles Medical shares, while four suggest holding and one
selling, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income  rose more than 12-fold in the past decade to a
record S$56.8 million ($45 million) in 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Profit may climb to S$62.7 million this
year, according to the average of 10 analyst  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Raffles Medical, in partnership with  China  Merchants Group
Ltd., signed an  agreement  in January to build a 200-bed hospital
in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen. The company will
consider building more hospitals in the country and is focused
on Shanghai, Beijing and Shenzhen, Lui said.  “Private hospitals are a scarce commodity” in China, Lui
said. “We think that China provides us the so-called
opportunities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kenneth Foo in Singapore at 
 kfoo23@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  