-- Stevens Says RBA Board Deliberated ‘Very Long Time’ on Pause
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-07-03T09:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/rba-s-stevens-sees-significant-challenges-in-mining-boom-wane.html
Reserve Bank of  Australia  Governor
 Glenn Stevens  said the board “deliberated for a very long
time” yesterday before keeping its key  interest rate  unchanged,
sending the currency to the lowest level since September 2010.  The Aussie touched 90.53 U.S. cents and bets on a rate cut
next month rose to 55 percent from 37 percent after the comments,
which Stevens made today at the introduction of a speech in
 Brisbane , where the RBA board met yesterday. The remark was
intended as an aside, according to an RBA official who asked not
to be named, citing bank policy.  Three of 28 economists had predicted a rate reduction,
while swaps traders had seen about a 20 percent chance of a move
yesterday. Stevens and his board have left the overnight  cash
rate  target unchanged at a record-low 2.75 percent for the past
two meetings as the currency slid 12 percent last quarter,
easing pressure on the economy.  “Perhaps the decision not to cut yesterday was closer than
the market was anticipating,” said Derek Mumford, a director at
Rochford Capital, a currency risk-management company in Sydney.  Policy makers lowered borrowing costs by 2 percentage
points between November 2011 and May to spur industries
including  residential construction  as mining wanes.  Standing Pat  “The  Reserve Bank  Board in fact held its meeting here in
Brisbane yesterday, at which we deliberated for a very long time
and then elected to sit with the cash rate unchanged,” Stevens
said in a departure from an e-mailed text of the speech.  The comment was “puzzling,” Ben Jarman, an economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney, wrote in a note to clients.  “Markets have interpreted the comment as stating that
yesterday’s decision was a very close call, meaning that August
is a decent chance for a rate cut,” he wrote. “This would be a
needlessly indirect approach given that the RBA have in the past
been happy to telegraph in the official statements situations
where the call was finely balanced.”  In yesterday’s statement, the central bank said: “The
inflation outlook, as currently assessed, may provide some scope
for further easing, should that be required to support demand.”
It added that, “easier financial conditions now in place will
contribute to a strengthening of growth over time.”  ‘Cold Comfort’  Today’s comment from Stevens on the deliberations is “cold
comfort to those of us looking for a cut yesterday,”  Michael Turner , a debt strategist at RBC in Sydney, wrote in a note to
clients.  The governor told the Economic Society of Australia
Business Luncheon in Brisbane that “if the economy ‘needs’ a
lower exchange rate, it will probably get it.” He said the
nation will need improved confidence to manage the end of a
resource boom.  “We have to negotiate the downward phase of the investment
boom over the next few years, which appears likely to pose
significant challenges,” Stevens said today in the text of the
 speech . “Much depends on ‘confidence’ -- that intangible thing
that is hard to measure and very hard to increase.”  He also urged the country’s political parties to maintain
their “strong commitment” to fiscal responsibility. “The
importance of that commitment will, if anything, be heightened
in the future, given that significant challenges exist over the
medium term in funding government initiatives that the community
appears to want,” he said.  China Concern  Concerns are mounting that growth in  China , Australia’s
biggest trading partner, is slowing and will impact the local
economy. Two gauges of Chinese manufacturing fell in June,
reports showed this week, while a cash squeeze in the banking
system adds to odds that Li Keqiang will become the first
Chinese premier to miss an annual growth target since the 1998
Asian financial crisis.  Stevens was more optimistic on the world’s second-largest
economy, saying the expansion in China “has moderated” over
the past year or two to closer to 7.5 percent than the past 10
percent rate. “Most of the data we are seeing from China are
consistent with that pace. This is what the Chinese authorities
have been saying they want to achieve.”  Australia’s Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , who returned to
office last week after a three-year hiatus, is reshaping the
government’s economic message and abandoning the optimism of his
predecessor  Julia Gillard , warning the end of the China boom may
mean swelling unemployment unless it’s managed carefully.  Growth Transition  Stevens said improved sentiment will be required to help
Australia make the transition to other sources of growth.  “Confidence seems pretty subdued right now,” he said.
“We are talking here about confidence that the future will be
characterized by growth, that there will be customers for
products, that innovations are worth a try, and so on.”  The Australian economy, which bucked the global recession
in the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse,
grew at its slowest annual pace in almost two years in the first
three months of 2013. The Australian Industry Group’s gauges for
manufacturing, services and construction have all shown a
contraction since at least March 2012.  Since the central bank unexpectedly cut rates on May 7, the
Aussie has dropped about 10 percent and suffered the biggest
worldwide slide last quarter after the Syrian pound.  ‘Too High’  “The exchange rate was somewhat too high for a period,”
Stevens said in his speech. “It is no secret that I, for one,
have been surprised that the foreign exchange market has taken
as long as it has to reflect the fact that the terms of trade
peaked some time ago -- nearly two years ago, in fact. In the
end, though, market-based exchange rates do eventually adjust.”  He said pressure from the sustained strength of the
currency had led to greater efficiency among businesses.  “My assessment is that at the level of enterprises,
efforts to improve productivity have been stepped up under the
pressure of the high exchange rate and structural change,”
Stevens said. “But we should still be asking whether there are
things in the way of faster improvement. Is the combination of
regulatory structures of various kinds -- however well-meaning
and valid in their own terms -- imposing unnecessary and
excessive costs of compliance, or creating undue complexity for
business?”  Australia’s  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 5.5
percent in May from a revised 5.6 percent, government data
showed, and  consumer confidence  jumped 4.7 percent last month as
optimists outweighed pessimists in a private survey.  Home prices 
in Australia’s state and territory capitals rose 3 percent in
the first six months of 2013, and 1.9 percent in June, according
to the RP Data-Rismark home value index.  “We have a better starting point going into this episode
than we might have had, or than we have had on other
occasions,” Stevens said today. “On this occasion, the
resources boom -- a bigger one than anything seen for at least a
century -- was accommodated without a big rise in inflation, or
a big run-up in leverage or an unsustainable asset price boom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  