-- RBS Hires Ex-BOE Deputy Governor to Review Business Lendi
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-07-03T08:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/rbs-hires-ex-boe-deputy-governor-lange-to-review-lending.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
hired former Bank of England Deputy Governor Andrew Large to
lead a review of lending to small and medium-sized businesses.  Large has been appointed alongside consultant  Oliver Wyman 
to “undertake a thorough and independent review of lending
standards and practices” at RBS and its NatWest unit, the
Edinburgh-based lender said in a statement on its website today.
RBS has earmarked 20 billion pounds ($30 billion) in surplus
deposits to “support the economy,” it said.  “There is a disconnect between what the bank says it is
doing on lending, and what many businesses say they experience
on the ground,” Large said in the statement. “That is why we
have been asked to conduct an independent review to establish
what is going on, and what steps can be taken.”  U.K. lenders have been criticized by the government for
failing to maintain lending to businesses since the financial
crisis as they boost capital reserves. The  Bank of England 
earlier this year extended its plan to provide cheap loans to
companies and consumers and make credit available for small
firms to help support the economy.  ‘Challenge’  The extension allowed banks to borrow 10 pounds next year
for every 1 pound they lend to small companies in 2013. If they
wait to extend the loan until next year, the amount they can
borrow under the plan is cut by half to 5 pounds for every pound
loaned. Banks can borrow 1 pound for every pound loaned with the
rest of the program, according to the Treasury.  “Demand for lending remains a challenge, but we want to do
more than just wait for demand to materialise,” said  Chris
Sullivan , RBS’s CEO of U.K. Corporate Banking. “We want to play
our part in securing the recovery. If there are loans that we
could and should be making, but are not, then that will change.
If there are things we can do better, we will.”  The government had “not been involved at all” in the
decision to conduct the review, Sullivan said in an interview
with Bloomberg TV in London today.  “Businesses have been very nervous about the
environment,” he told Bloomberg TV’s Francine Lacqua. “The
biggest issue has been confidence. We and the government and
everyone else need to do what we can to address that
confidence.”  The review will be published later this year, the company
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in  London  at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  