-- RBS Equity Derivatives Unit Said to Draw Rivals’ Interest
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-07-04T07:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/rbs-equity-derivatives-unit-said-to-draw-rivals-interest.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the
British lender scaling back its investment bank after being
bailed out, has drawn interest in its structured retail products
and equity derivatives business from rivals, said people with
knowledge of the matter.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  are
considering bids for some or all of the business, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the process is
private.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  may
also look at parts of it, two of the people said. Derivatives
are a type of security whose price is dependent upon or derived
from underlying assets such as stocks, bonds, commodities and
currencies.  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, announced
last month that it planned to exit all structured retail
investor products and equity derivatives. Under Stephen Hester,
who stepped down as chief executive officer last month, RBS has
cut its balance sheet by about 900 billion pounds ($1.4
trillion) and shed more than 36,000 jobs to bolster capital and
prepare for the eventual sale of the stake the government took
when it bailed out the Edinburgh-based lender in 2008 and 2009.  RBS said it had earned 340 million pounds in the first
quarter, compared to 333 million pounds in the previous period,
from its rates and investor products business, which includes
equity derivatives.  The stock rose as much as 2 percent and was up 1.1 percent
at 273 pence as of 8:02 a.m. in London trading today.  Buying Parts  With the sale, RBS becomes the third European bank to close
its structured products business for retail investors since
March, citing high capital costs and expenses for the
securities. The bank has about  50,000 structured products 
outstanding such as certificates tied to commodities,
currencies, equities, interest rates and proprietary indexes,
according to its website.  Competitors may be interested in buying parts of the RBS
business because it provides “an opportunity to increase market
share,” said Cormac Leech, a banking analyst at Liberum Capital
Ltd. in London.  Spokesmen for RBS, Commerzbank, BNP Paribas, JPMorgan,
Credit Suisse and Societe Generale declined to comment.  Regulators in the U.S. and Europe are seeking to increase
transparency for structured products after they came under
scrutiny following the 2008 financial crisis for being opaque
and overly complex. Rules requiring banks in the European Union
to provide concise information outlining the characteristics and
risks of the products they sell may be in place by the end of
2014, according to the European Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  London  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  