-- Treasuries Rise Third Day as Portugal Concern Fuels Safety Bid
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-07-03T10:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/treasuries-rise-third-day-as-europe-concern-fuels-safety-demand.html
Treasury 10-year notes rose for a
third day as investors sought the safest assets after two of
Portugal’s ministers resigned from the government, reigniting
concern the  European debt crisis  is worsening.  Thirty-year bonds advanced for a sixth day after Portuguese
Foreign Affairs Minister Paulo Portas and finance chief Vitor Gaspar both quit, threatening the stability of the ruling
coalition and pushing up the nation’s borrowing costs.
Treasuries declined last month after Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank may scale back purchases
of the securities later this year. Economists say a U.S. report
today will show companies stepped up hiring last month.  “What we’re seeing now is political uncertainty once
again,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “That’s come
back on the agenda after the limelight shifted to the Fed in
recent weeks. In uncertainty you get back to the safer assets
and that’s why Treasuries are benefitting from this situation.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 2.44 percent at 6:50 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note
maturing in May 2023 rose 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000 face amount,
to 94. The 30-year yield also dropped three basis points, to
3.44 percent.  Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  told voters
in a televised speech from Lisbon last night he’ll try to hold
his government together after Portas, leader of junior coalition
party CDS, quit in protest at the government’s budget policy.  Deepening Recession  Passos Coelho is battling rising joblessness and a
deepening recession as he cuts spending and raises taxes to meet
terms of a 78 billion-euro ($101 billion) rescue plan monitored
by the European Union, the  International Monetary Fund  and the
 European Central Bank .  Treasury 10-year yields have dropped more than 20 basis
points since rising to 2.66 percent on June 24, the highest
level since August 2011.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities each month to put downward pressure on
borrowing costs. Bernanke said on June 19 that policy makers may
end purchases next year if the economy achieves the sustainable
growth the central bank has sought since the last recession
ended in 2009.  Pimco Redemptions  Bill Gross ’s Pimco Total Return Fund, the world’s largest
mutual fund, absorbed a record $9.9 billion in net redemptions
last month as investors fled bonds in anticipation of the Fed
scaling back its purchases.  Pacific Investment Management Co., the  Newport Beach ,
California-based firm that runs the fund, provided the
preliminary estimate to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago-based
research firm said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The
withdrawals left the fund with $268 billion in assets at the end
of June, Morningstar said.  Trading in Treasuries is scheduled to close at 2 p.m. New
York time and stay shut tomorrow for a public holiday, according
to the  website  of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association.  U.S. companies hired 160,000 workers last month after
adding 135,000 in May, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before the report from ADP Research Institute. The  Institute for
Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing index rose to 54 last
month from 53.7 in May, a separate survey showed. A reading
above 50 indicates expansion.  Higher Yields  Economists boosted forecasts for Treasury 10-year yields to
the highest level in eight months amid speculation the Fed is
moving toward reducing stimulus.  Yields will be little changed at 2.42 percent by Dec. 31,
according to Bloomberg surveys of banks and securities companies
with the most recent predictions given the heaviest weightings.
The estimate has increased from this year’s low of 2.14 percent
in January  Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $59.6
billion at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo , dropped
his earlier view that Treasury yields would fall.  “I’ve turned bearish for the coming year,” said
Shimomura, chief fund investor at the unit of  Japan ’s largest
publicly traded bank. “There’s a chance that the Fed will start
to hike rates as early as the latter half of 2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  