-- Reds’ Bailey Throws No-Hitter vs. Giants, First of Season
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-07-03T04:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/reds-bailey-throws-1st-no-hitter-of-mlb-season-against-giants.html
Homer Bailey became the first
Cincinnati Reds pitcher in 44 years to throw his second no-hitter, allowing only one walk in a 3-0 win against the visiting
 San Francisco  Giants.  Bailey’s second no-hitter in 10 months was the first of the
2013 Major League Baseball season. His previous no-hitter, on
Sept. 28, 2012, was the seventh of last season.  Bailey threw his arms up in triumph and hugged catcher Ryan Hanigan after Gregor Blanco grounded out to third base to end
the game.  “I go out here every day and try to win,” Bailey said in
a television interview, his face covered with shaving cream
courtesy of teammates. “To have no-hitters is something
exceptionally special, but it’s all about the wins.”  Bailey joined Jim Maloney and Johnny Vander Meer as the
only Reds pitchers to throw more than one no-hitter. Maloney’s
came in 1965 and 1969, while Vander Meer pitched unprecedented
back-to-back no-hitters on June 11 and 15, 1938.  Texas Rangers President and Hall of Famer  Nolan Ryan  holds
the major league record with seven no-hitters. Bailey, a native
of La Grange, Texas, wears No. 34 in homage to his boyhood idol,
Ryan, who threw the last no-hitter of 1974 and the first of 1975.  Bailey, 27, struck out nine and hit 97 miles per hour (156
kilometers per hour) on a radar gun at Cincinnati’s Great
American Ball Park.  Bailey’s first no-hitter, against the Pittsburgh Pirates,
came near the end of the 2012 regular season when Reds manager
 Dusty Baker  was hospitalized with an irregular heartbeat.  Baker Celebrates  The 64-year-old Baker celebrated in the dugout last night
as Bailey (5-6) completed his second no-hitter.  “He was dealing,” Baker told reporters. “He had a
dynamite fastball and showed great control. What a game. I can’t
quit smiling. I’m so glad for Homer.”  Justin Verlander  of the  Detroit Tigers ,  Mark Buehrle  of the
Toronto Blue Jays and  Roy Halladay  of the  Philadelphia Phillies 
are the only other active pitchers with two no-hitters.  Joey Votto had a sacrifice fly in the first inning off  Tim Lincecum  (4-9) and  Brandon Phillips  hit a two-run homer in the
sixth for Cincinnati’s runs.  It was the 16th no-hitter in Cincinnati history, and the
Giants were no-hit for the 16th time.  “It was a pretty easy no-hitter,” Giants manager Bruce Bochy said. “We didn’t hit too many balls hard. There weren’t
any tough plays. We only hit a couple balls decent. He was
really overmatching us all night.”  Blanco walked on a full count leading off the seventh
inning, breaking up Bailey’s perfect game and providing the only
San Francisco baserunner. In the ninth, Bailey jumped to grab
Brandon Crawford’s high-bouncing grounder, struck out pinch-hitter Tony Abreu and then got Blanco to ground to third baseman
Todd Frazier.  “Going into the eighth and ninth, I just said, ’Why the
hell not?”’ Bailey said. “Here we go again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 