-- Riksbank Keeps Rate at 1% as Krona Slump Helps Price Target
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-07-03T09:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/riksbank-keeps-rate-at-1-as-krona-slump-helps-price-target-2-.html
Sweden ’s central bank kept its  main
interest rate  unchanged and stuck to a forecast for tightening
to start in the second half of next year after a krona sell-off
helped bring inflation closer to target.  The repurchasing rate was kept at 1 percent for a third
consecutive meeting, the Stockholm-based bank said today in a
statement. The decision was forecast by 18 of the 19 economists
 surveyed by Bloomberg , with one predicting a cut. The bank said
it sees the rate at an average of 1 percent in the third quarter
and 0.9 percent in the fourth quarter, maintaining a small
chance for a reduction.  “The repo rate needs to remain low to support the economy
and enable inflation to rise to the target of 2 percent,” the
bank said in a statement. “Gradual increases in the repo rate
are expected to begin during the second half of 2014, as
assessed earlier.”  Sweden’s $540 billion economy, home to Ericsson AB and
Electrolux AB, is starting to recover from last year’s export-induced slump. Manufacturing has picked up and  unemployment 
fallen after the economy grew more than predicted in the first
quarter. Low rates have also helped fuel faster borrowing,
reigniting concerns over financial imbalances as debt grows.  The krona pared losses after the decision, and traded
little changed at 8.7322 per euro as of 10:47 a.m. in  Stockholm .  No Reason  “There’s no reason to cut the rate right now given that
households are faring relatively well,” said Knut Hallberg, an
analyst at Swedbank AB in Stockholm. The Riksbank is right to
take the household debt situation “seriously” and will
probably not cut rates further, he said.  Two of the bank’s six board members, deputy governors
Karolina Ekholm and Martin Floden, voted for a cut to 0.75
percent and argued that the Riksbank should not start raising
the rate until the second half of next year.  “The most surprising thing about today’s rate decision was
that new board member Floden already now, together with Karolina
Ekholm, chose to oppose the cut,” Anna Raman, an analyst at
Nykredit Bank A/S, said in a note to clients. Like Lars E.O.
Svensson, who stepped down in May after unsuccessful calls for
more rate cuts, Floden argued “that a lower repo rate path
would produce a forecast where inflation more quickly reaches
the target,” she said.  GDP Forecasts  The Riksbank raised its unemployment forecast for next year
to 8.1 percent from 7.8 percent, even as it predicted growth
will accelerate to 1.5 percent this year and 2.8 percent next
year, raising earlier forecasts. Consumer prices will rise 0.1
percent this year, 1.3 percent in 2014 and 2.6 percent in 2015,
the bank forecast.  “The Swedish economy is on the way to a recovery,” the
Riksbank said today. “Households’ finances are relatively
strong. Low  interest rates  and rising employment have
contributed to good growth in incomes preparing the ground for
continued steady growth in consumption.”  The krona has lost 4.5 against the euro since the
Riksbank’s April meeting, helping policy makers bring inflation
back toward the 2 percent  target  and boosting exports. The
Riksbank has cut the rate four times in the year through
December 2012 to foster growth in the  economy , which relies on
exports for about half of its output.  Cut Probability  The Riksbank repo rate forecast “still indicates a 24
percent likelihood of a cut in the coming quarters and a first
increase during the second half 2014,” Raman said. “Thereafter
it indicates slightly quicker increases than before.”  The krona appreciated 31 percent against the euro from the
end of 2008 through the middle of March this year as investors
poured funds into Sweden’s AAA rated bonds backed by one of
 Europe ’s lowest public debt burdens.  Since then, investors have sought to exit their krona
holdings as liquidity replaces public finance health as a driver
of capital flows following signals from the U.S. Federal Reserve
that it’s preparing to scale back stimulus.  Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said in an interview last
week that his government is watching the  exchange rate  to see
whether the weaker krona level “has come to stay,” adding the
decline has helped Swedish exporters.  Fiscal Support  The Riksbank today cited improving economic growth
prospects. In April, it pushed back the timing of a rate
increase by about a year until late 2014 as weak demand and a
strong currency resulted in falling consumer prices in five of
the seven months through May.  Fiscal policy is also supporting the recovery, easing
pressure to cut rates. Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said last
month that the government is working to continue to cut taxes
for low- and middle-income earners to help the economy and
stimulate the labor market.  “Sweden stands, in relative terms, on a stronger footing
than many others but there will surely be a relatively shifting
climate in the  economy  also during the autumn,” Borg said.  Swedish  manufacturing  and  consumer confidence  rose last
month as household spending helped the economy grow an annual
1.7 percent in the first quarter. Manufacturing expanded the
most in two years and  seasonally-adjusted unemployment  fell to a
10-month low of 7.9 percent in May, reports showed.  The improved conditions for consumers have added to credit
growth.  Lending to Swedish households  picked up to 4.7 percent
in May. Private debt as a share of disposable incomes will
almost double to a record 176 percent by the end of 2014 as
 house prices  hover around all-time highs, the Riksbank predicts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  