-- Rockefellers’ Hudson Cliffs Are Backdrop for LG Tower Skirmish
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-07-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/rockefellers-hudson-cliffs-are-backdrop-for-lg-tower-skirmish.html
While the New York City suburbs were
growing into the most densely populated region of the U.S., New
Jersey’s Palisades cliffs remained just as Henry Hudson saw them
on his first river voyage past  Manhattan  in 1609.  Now, a plan by a U.S. unit of  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  to build
a $300 million headquarters in Englewood Cliffs is pitting the
South Korean manufacturer against a group of high-profile
opponents who say the building would ruin views of the
Palisades, a 200-million-year-old chunk of rocky wilderness
above the western shore of the Hudson River.  LG, the world’s second-biggest television maker behind
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , wants a view of the famous New York
City skyline. The Metropolitan Museum of Art, the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, four former New Jersey
governors and environmentalist Larry Rockefeller, a grandson of
philanthropist John D. Rockefeller Jr., want to stop the company
from getting it.  “There is no place in the world that you can see a space
that a 17th century explorer saw,” said Harold Holzer, a
spokesman for the museum, whose Cloisters medieval collection is
housed across the river from the Palisades. “Only in New
Jersey. That’s something to cherish, not to violate.”  Holzer said the museum contacted LG in a December 2012
letter asking the company to reconsider the design. LG hasn’t
responded other than to say the letter was received, he said
yesterday.  ‘Native Environment’  LG Electronics USA, a year behind its construction
schedule, says the objections are  unfounded . The new building
would be tucked behind the quarter-mile of trees between the
property and the Palisades, according to John Taylor, a company
spokesman.  “It’s not on the cliffs, as you would be led to believe,”
he said by telephone from  Chicago . One drawing of the building
on a company website, LGEnglewoodCliffs.com, shows three floors
above the tree line.  “Our plan for this property is to return it, in many ways,
to its original native environment,” Taylor said. “We also
love the Palisades. We would never do anything to harm the
Palisades.”  In a 2012 lawsuit before Superior Court Judge Alexander
Carver III in Bergen County, opponents claim Englewood Cliffs
wrongly gave permission for LG to build a 143-foot tower in a
borough that caps building height at 35 feet (10.6 meters). The
complaint was filed by two county residents, Margo Moss and
Jakob Franke, plus the New Jersey State Federation of Women’s
Clubs and Scenic Hudson, a Poughkeepsie, New York-based
preservation group.  Four Governors  Hayley Carlock, an attorney representing Scenic Hudson,
said yesterday that the parties failed to reach an agreement
in mediation. The matter now is pending in Superior Court, with
a ruling expected by September, she said. Taylor, the LG
spokesman, also said mediation failed.  On June 5, four ex-governors -- Democrats Brendan Byrne and
Jim Florio and Republicans Christie Whitman and Thomas H. Kean Sr. -- signed a letter to Koo Bon-Joon, co-vice chairman of
Seoul-based LG, asking for a redesign. The Environmental
Protection Agency followed up with a June 11 letter to Wayne Park, president and chief executive of LG Electronics USA.  EPA Opposed  “This view is so important that adverse impacts of
construction of high-rise building cannot be condoned,” wrote
Judith Enck, the agency’s regional administrator for New York,
New Jersey, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. For the
first time, Enck wrote, the EPA’s region was withdrawing from a
“green” memorandum of understanding, issued to 24 construction
projects that incorporate sustainable design.  The plan has also raised objections from Larry Rockefeller,
whose grandfather preserved 700 acres atop the Palisades in the
1930s. The cliffs are west of the Cloisters and its surrounding
Fort Tryon Park, which sit on land the elder Rockefeller also
donated.  Larry Rockefeller, in a voice mail message, referred an
inquiry to Mark Izeman, an attorney for the Manhattan-based
Natural Resources Defense Council, a nonprofit environmental
group of which Rockefeller is a trustee. The council is part of
a coalition,  ProtectThePalisades.org , that encourages activists
to contact LG and elected officials.  “This controversy is not just about LG,” Izeman said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s about preserving one
of America’s important urban natural areas. All Americans, not
just those in New Jersey and New York, care about protecting
this area.”  Tax Revenue  The headquarters would replace several buildings LG now
uses for offices in Englewood Cliffs. Its property tax payments
of about $750,000 annually would jump by an additional $1.6
million, Taylor said. The municipal budget is about $13 million.  Moody’s Investors Service in March 2012 downgraded
Englewood Cliffs one step, to Aa2, the third-highest, citing a
large volume of tax appeals and “recent pressures on
finances.” It affirmed the rating on $5.65 million in debt in
June 2012.  LG is threatening to leave the Garden State if it doesn’t
get approval and borough officials say the alternative
developments could be even taller.  “Continuing and prolonged delays with significant
increases to the costs of the project would force us to
reconsider other options for the site of the new HQ,” according
to the LG website. “This would include looking again at sites
outside of New Jersey.”  Taller Option  If LG doesn’t build, Englewood Cliffs might consider a
residential high-rise of as many as 40 stories, according to
Mayor Joseph Parisi, 53.  “What would stop a large developer that would come in and
put up an affordable-housing project?”  Parisi said by phone
June 26.  The median value of owner-occupied housing in the borough
is $1 million, about three times the state median, according to
the U.S. Census. Household income is $116,563, or 64 percent
higher than the statewide median.  New York politicians have also joined the battle. On June
25, Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer and Bronx Borough
President Ruben Diaz Jr. wrote to New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, a 50-year-old Republican running for a second term in
November, asking him to help “develop a better plan for the
company’s expansion.”  Christie’s spokesmen,  Michael Drewniak  and Colin Reed,
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment. A spokeswoman for
Stringer, Megan Dougherty, said June 28 that the office hadn’t
received a response from Christie.  “What I want, more than anything else, is for people to
come to my borough as tourists, as visitors, to the cultural
institutions we have here,” Diaz, whose borough includes the
Wave Hill public gardens, overlooking the cliffs, said by phone.
“We’re trying to make the argument that when you look at the
Palisades, they’ve been virtually untouched. They’ve looked the
same since this country was settled.”  The case is New Jersey State Federation of Women’s Clubs et
al, L8875-12, New Jersey Superior Court, Bergen County
(Hackensack).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  