-- Rosneft Falls as Top Analyst Says Itera Expensive: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-07-03T09:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/rosneft-falls-as-top-analyst-says-itera-expensive-moscow-mover.html
OAO Rosneft declined for a second day
after acquiring full control of OOO Itera in a $2.9 billion deal
that the  most accurate  analyst covering the stock said was
overpriced.  The shares fell as much as 1.5 percent and traded down 0.7
percent at 226.01 rubles by 12:24 p.m. in Moscow. Rosneft’s
global depositary receipts lost 1.9 percent to $6.74, with
volume at 1 million shares.  Rosneft bought the remaining 49 percent in Itera, an
independent natural gas producer and trader, according to a
statement released yesterday. Rosneft and Itera last year teamed
up to produce and sell gas, with the oil producer acquiring 51
percent of the joint venture in exchange for the Kynsko-Chaselsk
field and $173.4 million in cash.  “On a relative basis Itera was priced expensively compared
with the current multiples of Rosneft, and this would make it
difficult to justify the acquisition with the argument that the
company’s reserves could be further monetized via a boost in
production,” VTB Capital analysts led by Dmitry Loukashov said
in an e-mailed note. Loukashov is ranked first by Bloomberg
among analysts covering Rosneft based on returns on all the
securities he covers. “We see the deal as dilutive for
Rosneft’s shareholders,” he said.  State-controlled Rosneft is challenging OAO Gazprom, the
world’s biggest gas producer, with plans to double its share of
the domestic market and sell liquefied natural gas to  Asia .  “We think the purchase was rather expensive,” Sberbank
CIB analysts led by  Oleg Maximov , who is ranked fourth by
Bloomberg among analysts covering Rosneft. Considering Itera’s
debt level, Sberbank CIB sees its equity value as $2.4 billion
versus the $2.9 billion paid by Rosneft, according to the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  