-- Russian Mayor Allied With Prokhorov Is Held on Suspected Bribery
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-07-03T11:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/russian-mayor-allied-with-prokhorov-is-held-on-suspected-bribery.html
A Russian mayor who won a landslide
victory against a candidate backed by President  Vladimir Putin ’s
ruling party last year was detained by police on suspicion of
demanding a 14 million-ruble ($421,000) kickback.  Yaroslavl Mayor Yevgeny Urlashov and two deputies
threatened to stop payments to a local businessman for a
municipal trash-removal contract unless the bribe was paid,
according to statements released by the  Interior Ministry  and
the  Investigative Committee . Urlashov  told  TV Rain that the case
is politically motivated and accusations against him were made
by a member of Putin’s United  Russia  party.  Urlashov planned to head billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s
Civic Platform party ticket in September elections in the
region, which lies 250 kilometers (160 miles) northeast of
Moscow. He’s being held for 48 hours awaiting a decision on
possible arrest, state television channel Rossiya 24 reported.  “The demonstrative capture of the popularly elected head
of the city is a strike against the civil rights and freedom of
every Russian,” Prokhorov said on his LiveJournal  blog  today.
“ Civic Platform  demands a public explanation from  law
enforcement  as to why they adopted such drastic measures against
the city head.”  Police found $500,000 stashed in Urlashov’s apartment
building, the state-run news service RIA Novosti  reported ,
adding that the kickback was part of a 45 million-ruble bribe
demanded from the contractor. Speaking on TV Rain, Urlashov
denied that anything was found or removed during the raid.  No Explanation  Officers in camouflage and masks stopped Urlashov’s car
near 1 a.m. as he was returning from a meeting with delegates of
the Parliamentary Assembly of the  Council of Europe , RIA
reported, citing the mayor’s press secretary, Svetlana Ufimova.
He was carried away without explanation, she said, according to
the news service.  Putin has hardened his response against critics since
winning a third term in the Kremlin last year after the biggest
protests of his political career. Opposition leader Alexey Navalny, who’s running for mayor of Moscow in September, is on
trial in a fraud case he says is politically motivated.
Economist Sergei Guriev and former chess world champion  Garry Kasparov  have left Russia for fear of being detained.  The president has tried to turn the table on his opponents
after United Russia was rocked by corruption scandals involving
senior lawmakers.  Speaking  April 25 about cases including
Navalny’s, Putin said everyone is equal under the law and those
fighting corruption should be “crystal clear themselves,
otherwise it assumes a form of self-serving PR and political
advertising.”  Opposition Mayors  Navalny  said  on his blog that a meeting is planned for
tonight to support the mayor in Yaroslavl, a  city  of almost
600,000. He pointed to data showing that about 90 percent of
mayors who won against United Russia candidates have been
arrested or removed from office. Prokhorov, the owner of the
Brooklyn Nets, plans to visit Yaroslavl July 7 to support
Urlashov, according to an e-mailed statement.  Another high-profile regional politician, the mayor of
Makhachkala, the capital of Dagestan, was arrested last month in
connection with a murder of a state investigator.  In October, Putin’s allies dominated Russia’s first
gubernatorial elections in eight years, polls opposition parties
said were marred by abuses.  United Russia ’s candidates won all
five races for governor and six local legislative contests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  