-- Samsung Acquires Startup Boxee to Add Connected TV Set-Top Boxes
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2013-07-03T19:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/samsung-acquires-startup-boxee-to-add-connected-tv-set-top-boxes.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest television maker, acquired  Boxee Inc. , a New York-based
startup whose set-top box can record broadcasts and stream
online video.  Terms weren’t disclosed. Boxee makes video-streaming
applications for phones and tablets based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS operating systems, in addition to
the software that powers its connected TV box. Samsung said
closely held Boxee can help it develop Internet-enabled devices.  “Samsung has acquired key talent and assets from Boxee,”
a spokeswoman for the Suwon, South Korea-based company said in
an e-mailed statement. “This will help us continue to improve
the overall user experience across our connected devices.”  Consumers’ living rooms are turning into a major
battleground for technology companies this year.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
and  Sony Corp. (6758)  are set to release new video-game consoles that
emphasize features for streaming and downloading entertainment
content. Apple is nearing a deal with Time Warner Cable Inc. to
add channels for its TV products, people with knowledge of the
negotiations said this week.  Avner Ronen, Boxee’s chief executive officer, and the
Samsung spokeswoman declined to comment on terms of the deal.
Boxee had raised $26.5 million from venture capitalists,
including New York-based Spark Capital and Union Square Ventures
as well as the investment arm of Japan’s  SoftBank Corp. (9984)   TV Apps  Samsung aims to maintain its lead in TV sales as it
develops new apps and ways to control its sets, including an
embedded camera -- similar to Microsoft’s Kinect -- for
recognizing hand gestures. Critics have praised Boxee, which
signed a deal with  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  last year to sell its
Boxee TV product, for the design of its software. Roku Inc.,
another closely held TV-box maker, has managed to gain some
success with its streaming players that are sold for as little
as $50.  Boxee has found itself in several battles with media giants
since the company was started in 2007. The startup tried to
circumvent changes to Hulu LLC’s system that blocked Boxee’s
service, which became a topic of questioning for then-NBC
Universal Chief Jeff Zucker during Congressional hearings
related to its merger with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  Last year, Boxee butted
heads with Comcast and other cable companies over proposed
changes to encryption rules by the U.S. Federal Communications
Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in San Francisco at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  