-- SEC Oil Rule, Basel Impact, Vatican Bank: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-07-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/sec-oil-rule-basel-impact-vatican-bank-compliance.html
A U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission rule mandating disclosure of payments by oil and
mining companies to foreign governments was thrown out by a
federal judge in  Washington  who said the agency misread the law.  U.S. District Judge John Bates in Washington yesterday
ruled in favor of the American Petroleum Institute, the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce and two other trade groups that argued the
regulation would hobble companies’ competitiveness by forcing
them to publicly disclose information that could be used to
influence political events in other countries.  “The commission offers no persuasive arguments that the
statute unambiguously requires public disclosure of the full
reports,” Bates said in his 30-page opinion. He said the SEC’s
rejection of an exemption for countries that prohibit payment
disclosure was arbitrary and capricious.  China , Qatar,  Angola 
and Cameroon bar disclosure of payments.  The rule, issued under the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform
law, covers about 1,100 public companies engaged in oil, natural
gas or mineral extraction. It was aimed at increasing
transparency and thwarting corruption by giving citizens of
resource-rich countries information about their governments’ oil
and mineral revenue.  The SEC estimated the rule could cost the companies as much
as $1 billion and required natural-resource companies such as
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  to disclose how
they pay governments -- including the U.S. -- to tap their
resources.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in a phone interview
that the agency was reviewing the decision.  The case is American Petroleum Institute v. U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, 12-cv-01668, U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia (Washington).  Special Section: Basel III Impact  U.S. Prepares to Impose Stricter Rules on Eight Largest Banks  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  are among eight U.S. banks facing a new round of
domestic rules on capital and debt that would be even stricter
than global standards approved yesterday.  Regulators will push banks to maintain a leverage ratio of
capital to assets that exceeds the 3 percent minimum set by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Federal Reserve Governor
Daniel Tarullo said, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
said a proposal may be published next week. Another measure “in
the next few months” would compel banks to hold a set amount of
equity and long-term debt to help regulators dismantle failing
lenders, Tarullo said.  The remarks show U.S. regulators plan to ratchet up demands
for bigger buffers against losses to prevent a repeat of the
2008 credit crisis, brushing aside protests from bankers who say
lending and profit will be hurt. The Fed’s board unanimously
approved new global rules known as Basel III yesterday even as
Tarullo said key parts are too weak.  People with knowledge of the matter have said U.S.
regulators may want to double Basel’s 3 percent capital
threshold, known as the leverage ratio.  The measures under consideration would affect the eight
U.S. institutions already tagged as being “of global systemic
importance,” according to Tarullo. The Financial Stability
Board has identified those as JPMorgan, Wells Fargo, Goldman
Sachs,  Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
 State Street Corp. (STT)  and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp .  When finalizing the rule, the U.S. eased requirements for
some of the smallest firms while tightening for the biggest
ones. Bankers have argued that new regulations and capital
ratios will inhibit lending and erode profit.  For more, click here.  Fed Approves New Capital Standards in Line With Basel  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, Fed Governors
Daniel Tarullo and  Elizabeth Duke , Michael Gibson, director of
the Fed’s  Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation , and
Ann Lee Hewko, a deputy assistant director, spoke at a Fed
meeting in Washington about a proposed leverage ratio minimum
for banks that would exceed the 3 percent requirement set by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  For the video, click here.  During the hearing, Tarullo said the U.S. is “very close”
to proposing a leverage ratio minimum that will exceed the 3
percent requirement set by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision.  For the video, click here.  FDIC to Vote Next Week on Leverage Rule That Goes Beyond Basel  U.S. banks may face capital requirements that exceed the
so-called Basel III minimum when the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. considers a new proposal next week.  The FDIC -- one of three agencies that must approve the
rules cleared yesterday by the Federal Reserve -- added a vote
on “enhanced supplementary leverage ratio standards” to its
July 9 meeting  agenda .  Andrew Gray, an FDIC spokesman, declined to comment on the
details of the proposal. FDIC Vice Chairman Thomas Hoenig has
repeatedly called for a ratio of 10 percent tangible equity to
tangible assets.  The FDIC will consider Basel III as an “interim final
rule” rather than as a final rule as the Fed did, according to
the agenda.  Compliance Policy  SEC Creates Task Forces to Detect Accounting and Microcap Fraud  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has formed two
enforcement task forces aimed at rooting out improper accounting
and fraud at small companies, the agency said.  The SEC’s enforcement division also created a Center for
Risk and Quantitative Analytics to identify risks and threats
that could harm investors, the agency said in a statement
yesterday.  The financial reporting task force will concentrate on
publicly filed statements, issuer reporting and audit failures,
the SEC said. The group, which will also focus on a review of
financial restatements and revisions, will be led by David
Woodcock, head of the SEC’s regional office in Fort Worth,
 Texas .  Compliance Action  Russia Claims First Insider Trading Case in Unilever’s Kalina  Russia’s market regulator said it’s identified the
country’s first case of insider trading in  Unilever (UNA) ’s 2011
acquisition of skincare maker Kalina.  Several people involved in the deal, including a Kalina
executive who purchased shares in his own name, bought stock
before the acquisition,  Dmitry Pankin , head of Russia’s
financial markets regulator, said in a  blog post . Kalina  shares
surged  75 percent to 2,198 rubles in the three weeks before the
announcement, which Pankin said triggered the investigation.  While Russia’s federal law on insider information and
market manipulation  came into force  in January 2011, those who
violate the legislation can only be criminally prosecuted from
July 27. Unilever, the world’s second-biggest consumer goods
company, agreed to acquire 82 percent of Kalina, a maker of
beauty products, in a deal valuing the company at 21.5 billion
rubles ($694 million).  Unilever’s Moscow press service didn’t immediately respond
to calls and e-mailed requests for comment. The case materials
will be sent to the police in the “near future,” Pankin said.  Courts  Sprint Must Face New York’s $300 Million Alleged Tax Fraud Suit  Sprint-Nextel Corp. (S)  must face a lawsuit for $300 million
brought by the New York attorney general claiming the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier deliberately failed to pay sales
taxes.  New York Supreme Court Judge O. Peter Sherwood denied
Sprint-Nextel’s bid to dismiss the case in a ruling dated June
27. The complaint “satisfactorily alleges that Sprint knowingly
submitted false monthly tax statements,” Sherwood wrote.  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman last year took over the
whistle-blower lawsuit filed in New York in 2011, claiming
Sprint didn’t collect and pay some sales taxes on flat-rate
access charges for wireless calling plans, costing state and
local governments more than $100 million.  “Sprint is disappointed in the court’s decision, and we
intend to file an appeal shortly,” John Taylor, a spokesman for
Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint, said in an e-mailed
statement. “With this lawsuit, the Attorney General’s office is
claiming New York consumers, who already pay some of the highest
wireless taxes in the country, should pay even more. As we have
in the past, we will continue to stand up for New York
consumers’ rights and fight this suit.”  The attorney general seeks three times Sprint’s alleged
underpayment of more than $100 million plus penalties under the
state’s false claims act.  New York v. Spring Nextel, 103917-2011, New York Supreme
Court ( Manhattan ).  Comings and Goings  Vatican Bank Managers Quit Amid Broadening Financial Scandal  The director and deputy director of the Vatican bank
resigned yesterday, the latest management shake-up at the
Church’s financial arm amid a series of corruption
investigations.  Paolo Cipriani and his deputy Massimo Tulli stepped down
“in the best interest of the institute and the Holy See,” the
Vatican said in a statement late in the day on July 1. Ernst von
Freyberg, the bank’s president appointed last February, will
take over as interim director general and a new position of
chief risk officer will be created. “It is clear today that we
need new leadership to increase the pace of this transformation
process,” von Freyberg said in the statement.  The resignations come three days after senior Vatican
cleric Monsignor Nunzio Scarano was arrested by Italian
authorities along with an Italian secret service agent and a
financial broker as part of a fraud probe. The three are accused
of plotting to bring 20 million euros ($26 million) into  Italy 
from Switzerland in a private jet, according Rome prosecutor
Nello Rossi. Scarano has denied the accusations.  The Vatican bank, whose formal name is the Institute for
the Works of Religion, or IOR, is increasingly in the spotlight
of investigations as Pope Francis works to bring it in line with
international standards. The IOR oversees about 7.1 billion
euros in assets, mostly in bonds and cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  