-- SEC Drops Investigation of Witness Against Goldman’s Tourre
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-07-03T20:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/sec-drops-investigation-of-witness-against-goldman-s-tourre-1-.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission dropped an investigation of a key witness in its
fraud case against former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  executive
 Fabrice Tourre , according to a lawyer for the witness.  Tourre faces a July 15 trial on the SEC’s lawsuit over his
role in structuring a collateralized debt obligation known as
Abacus 2007-AC1. His lawyers are seeking information from former
ACA Financial Guaranty Corp. executive Laura Schwartz about an
SEC notice she received earlier this year that the regulator may
bring an action against her unrelated to Abacus. She is expected
to testify against Tourre, according to court records.  The SEC, in a June 27 letter, told Schwartz’s lawyer that
its  New York  field office completed its investigation and didn’t
intend to recommend action against her, the lawyer, Robin
Alperstein, said in a letter to the judge overseeing the Tourre
case yesterday.  The SEC says Tourre misled ACA and other investors in
Abacus, claiming he didn’t disclose that hedge fund Paulson &
Co. Inc. helped pick the securities underlying the CDO with the
intention of betting against them.  CDOs are pools of assets such as mortgage bonds packaged
into new securities. Interest payments on the underlying bonds
or loans are used to pay investors. The Abacus entity was a
synthetic CDO, meaning its  cash flow  came from derivatives that
referenced mortgage-backed securities.  Goldman Sachs in 2010 agreed to pay $550 million to settle
SEC claims against it in the case.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-03229, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  