-- SEC to Vote July 10 to Lift U.S. Ban on Hedge-Fund Advertising
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-07-03T21:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/sec-to-vote-july-10-to-lift-u-s-ban-on-hedge-fund-advertising.html
U.S. securities regulators are set to
vote next week to lift an 80-year-old rule that prohibits
companies and private funds from advertising to raise capital
outside of a public offering.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is required to
remove the advertising ban under a 2012 law that sought to ease
regulations on financing for startups and small businesses. In a
nod to complaints from critics who say the change will open the
door to more fraud, the SEC will also propose a separate rule
during the July 10 meeting to add some investor protections and
make it easier for the agency to monitor the change.  The package of rules will allow the SEC to finish an
overdue assignment from Congress, while seeking to assuage
critics such as consumer groups and state securities regulators
who decried the SEC’s initial plan for lifting the ban last
year.  “From a strategy perspective, you are not stopping the
rulemaking to address those concerns,” said Keir D. Gumbs, a
parter at Covington & Burling LLP who has worked for the SEC.
“This will give Congress what it has required but also address
the other part of the SEC’s mission which is capital
formation.”  A third rule scheduled for a vote the same day would block
felons and others found culpable of securities-law violations
from marketing such deals, which are more lightly regulated than
public offers of stock or debt.  Fast Track  The rule to allow advertising was controversial under
former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , whose decision last year to
abandon a fast-track plan was blasted by Republicans, including
Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher, who said it made him
“furious,” according to e-mails released last year by  House
Republicans . Gallagher and Troy A. Paredes, a fellow Republican
commissioner, have said the rule should be adopted as it was
written last year.  The prohibition was designed to protect small investors
from taking inappropriate risks. Private offerings of securities
are exempt from the requirement to publicly report financial
results as long as companies don’t advertise or sell to less
sophisticated investors. Only “accredited investors,” or those
with annual incomes exceeding $200,000 and a net worth higher
than $1 million, qualify to invest in such deals.  White Lobbied  Hedge funds  have become some of the most active entities
lobbying to shape the rule. The change will allow them to pitch
securities to qualified investors through print publications,
television, radio and the Internet for the first time. The
Managed Funds Association and representatives of Maverick
Capital Ltd. and Tudor Investment Corp. discussed the rule last
week with new SEC Chairman Mary Jo White, according to an SEC
notice.  Taking a final vote would relieve congressional pressure on
White, who promised at her March Senate confirmation hearing
that such rules were her top priority. House Republicans have
continued to press White to finish the rule, which is required
under the 2012 Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act.  Adopting last year’s plan while proposing new protections
sets up a two-step process that is different from what the SEC’s
own Investor Advisory Committee recommended last year. The
committee said the commission should rewrite the rule to include
new protections, such as changing the criteria for deeming
investors sophisticated or wealthy enough to participate in such
deals.  In a notice issued today, the SEC said the new proposal
would address how investment companies use sales literature and
seek changes to a form that companies file when they raise money
in a private sale of securities.  ‘Aggressive Effort’  SEC Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar, a Democrat, also has
called for the plan to be rewritten because it was an
“aggressive effort to exclude pro-investor initiatives.” State
securities regulators say private placements were the most
common product leading to enforcement actions in 2011.  The initial proposal also didn’t outline clear methods to
verify that a person was qualified to invest, sparking
complaints from consumer groups and hedge funds. Last year’s
plan left the door open to specifying such methods, one element
that stakeholders say they would like to see written into the
final rule next week.  “Unless there is something the commission includes that
provides some assurance they will come back and deal with the
investor protections in the future, this could just be an empty
gesture,” said  Barbara Roper , director of investor protection
for the  Consumer Federation of America .  A. Heath Abshure, president of the  North American
Securities Administrators Association , said the SEC should have
included more investor protections in the rule. Introducing a
new proposal triggers a public-comment period and doesn’t
guarantee the commission will adopt the provisions, he said.  “‘It’s just counter-intuitive for the SEC to say we are
going to allow advertising and then we’ll tell you later what
the rules are and how you’d get in trouble,” Abshure said in a
phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  