-- South Africa Backs Proposal to Legalize Rhino Horn Trade
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-07-03T13:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/south-africa-backs-proposal-to-legalize-rhino-horn-trade.html
South Africa ’s government is backing
the legalization of trade in rhino horns in an effort to stem
poaching of the endangered animals.  “South Africa cannot continue to be held hostage by the
syndicates slaughtering our rhinos,” Minister of Water and
Environmental Affairs Edna Molewa told reporters today in
 Pretoria , the capital. “The establishment of a well-regulated
international trade” could help curb rhino poaching, she said.  At least 446 rhinos have been killed illegally in South
Africa this year, with 280 slaughtered in Kruger National Park,
a conservation area the size of  Israel  that borders Mozambique
and where the army has been deployed, the Department of
Environmental Affairs said in a June 26 statement. The rate of
deaths this year is on course to exceed 2012’s record.  South Africa’s government has about 16,437 kilograms
(36,237 pounds) of stockpiled rhino horn, while 2,091 kilograms
more is in private hands, Fundisile Mketeni, a deputy director-general in the department, told reporters. The government favors
a once-off sale of horn derived from rhino fatalities and
doesn’t plan to dispose of horn from “illegal activities,” he
said.  The animals’ horns sell for more than gold by weight in
China and  Vietnam , where they are believed by some to cure
cancer and boost virility.  Final Approval  Members of the  United Nations ’ Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora will vote on
final approval of the anti-poaching plan in 2016. South Africa’s
proposals have the backing of some members of the  Southern
African Development Community , a 15-nation regional trading
bloc, Mketeni said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  on July 1 set aside resources
to help combat illegal wildlife trafficking, calling it an
“international crisis that continues to escalate.”  Last year 668 rhinos were poached in South Africa, eight
times the number in 2008, according to government statistics.
Kruger, which has a 350-kilometer (217-mile) border with
Mozambique, is where 72 percent of the killings took place.  “Legalizing the trade in rhino horn needs to be researched
in detail, so that the doubters and the advocates fully
understand the possible consequences,” Cathy Dean, the London-based director of Save the Rhino International, said in an e-mailed statement. “The one thing we all know is that the
current approach isn’t enough. There are fears that 900 to 1,000
rhinos could be killed in South Africa by the end of this year.
Tackling the problem needs a whole range of measures.”  Near Extinction  South African and Mozambican authorities have agreed to
rebuild a fence between the Kruger National Park and  Mozambique 
to deter poachers after the residents of seven affected villages
are relocated, Molewa said. Mozambique has secured funding from
international donors to carry out the move, she said.  The World Wildlife Fund “remains unconvinced that legal
international trade in rhino horn is a feasible approach for
rhino conservation at this time,” Jo Shaw, the rhino
coordinator for the WWF’s South African unit, said in an e-mailed response to questions. More investment would likely be
needed for security and protection of rhinos, should the trade
be allowed, she said.  White and black rhinos were brought back from the brink of
extinction in South Africa in the 1960s to a stable population
of close to 20,000. Most of those are the larger white rhinos
with about 75 percent in the Kruger National Park. With fewer
than 5,000 black rhinos alive they are classified by the World
Wildlife Fund as critically endangered.  “Ironically, the very success of our national conservation
effort, which has resulted in over 73 percent of the world’s
rhino population being conserved in our country has, in turn,
resulted in South Africa being targeted by international
criminal rhino poaching syndicates,” Molewa said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  