-- Stilettos Rock Traders, Tech Millionaire Gets Girl: Books
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2013-07-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/stilettos-rock-traders-tech-millionaire-gets-girl-books.html
What’s it like to be a woman stock
trader?  Geri Molloy -- the heroine of Aifric Campbell’s spiky novel
“ On the Floor ” (Picador, $26) -- finds that the office
shoeshine guy gets turned on by polishing her stilettos.  When she has to jet off to  Asia  on the spur of the moment,
there’s a smitten quant who’s more than happy to watch her dog.  And she has a direct pipeline to the biggest hedge-fund
manager in  Hong Kong , who gets a kick from making her read Kant
and eat delicacies like chicken hearts on sticks and deer
tendon.  Campbell worked for 13 years at Morgan Stanley in  London ,
eventually running the international convertible-bond sales
desk, then got a Ph.D. in creative writing. She knows the City
and she writes like a demon. “On the Floor” could have been a
page-turning big-money bodice ripper, but it’s better than that
-- an illuminating look at one woman as she tries to figure out
what’s really important.  Here are two more compelling novels to throw in your beach
bag this summer:  ‘The Unknowns’  Eric Muller, the computer-geek hero of Gabriel Roth’s “ The
Unknowns ” (Reagan Arthur/Little, Brown, $25), is trying to
figure out women. When he was in high school, he made like
Harriet the Spy and kept a notebook of observations about every
girl in his class -- except the ones he wouldn’t sleep with even
if it meant lifelong virginity. You know that didn’t end well.  Now in his early 20s, he’s a Silicon Valley millionaire
with time on his hands after selling his dot-com to a big
company, and he’s finally figured out how to approach women. His
tactics sound a bit nuts but they work: “Asking a Question That
Refers to Something I Learned About Her Earlier; Suggesting We
Continue the Conversation Sitting Down.”  Then Eric falls for Maya, whose look says “I see through
you entirely and find you benign but a bit ridiculous.” Or is
he over-analyzing a simple smile? It’s a kick getting inside the
head of this highly observant, self-conscious -- and funny --
narrator.  Rich Asians  In “ Crazy Rich Asians ” (Doubleday, $25.95), Kevin Kwan
makes his bid to be a Judith Krantz for the 21st century -- he’s
written a sex-and-shopping novel that’s so over-the-top it’s all
shopping, no sex. There’s a 2,000-square-foot wardrobe described
so lovingly that it’s practically a character:  “It’s all climate controlled,” its owner says. “The
closets on this end are maintained at 55 degrees specifically
for my Italian cashmere, houndstooth and fur. But the shoe-display cabinets are kept at 70 degrees, which is optimal for
leather, and the humidity is regulated to a constant 35 percent,
so my Berlutis and Corthays never break a sweat. You gotta treat
those babies right.”  The plot kicks off when  New York  University professor Nick
Young takes his girlfriend, Rachel Chu, home to  Singapore  for
his best friend’s wedding -- without warning her that his family
is staggeringly rich and pedigreed. Rachel encounters ancient
snobberies and arcane rules of etiquette, all while trying to
figure out what to wear to more social events than she could
have imagined.  The fun comes from watching Kwan pile on the absurdities --
there are dogs named Astor, Trump and Vanderbilt; a grandmother
attended by two lady’s maids given to her as a gift by the King
of Thailand; and a $784,000 pair of earrings that look like
something Pocahontas would have worn.  (Laurie Muchnick is an editor for  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Katya Kazakina  on art and  Greg
Evans  on movies.  To contact the writer of this column:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 