-- Swiss Enact Plan B to Solve U.S. Row Over Untaxed Assets
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-07-03T13:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/swiss-enact-plan-b-to-solve-u-s-row-over-untaxed-assets.html
The Swiss government announced a new
approach allowing banks to hand over data to U.S. authorities in
a bid to solve a dispute over undeclared assets and forestall
further indictments by the  Department of Justice .  The government is proposing banks apply for individual
authorization to surrender records intended to yield information
on Americans who cheated on their taxes, Finance Minister
Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said in the capital, Bern, today.  The government took the step in a bid to shield more banks
from being charged by the U.S. after Parliament last month voted
down a bill that would have enabled the transfer and established
more legal protection for bank employees. The proposal, dubbed
plan B by politicians, comes after Wegelin & Co. pleaded guilty
in January to helping Americans dodge taxes.  “There possibly will be a large number of requests for
permits” by banks, Widmer-Schlumpf told reporters. While “not
everything will be able to be transmitted as planned” in the
failed law, “we expect the large part of the program can be put
into action,” she said.  Switzerland  wants to prevent the indictment of another of
the country’s banks. Wegelin, the oldest Swiss bank, was
indicted last year after taking over clients from  UBS AG. (UBSN)  UBS
avoided prosecution in 2009 by admitting it aided  tax evasion ,
paying a fine of $780 million and handing over client names to
the U.S.  ‘Legal Certainty’  The  Swiss Bankers Association , which represents 347
institutional members, welcomed the governmnt’s move, saying it
would give banks the necessary legal options, according to an e-mailed  statement .  “The SBA expects that this will finally create legal
certainty so that the banks in Switzerland can make use of the
U.S.’ unilateral program,” it said.  Client data isn’t covered by the authorization, according
to the government. That information can only be handed over in
response to a request for administrative assistance by the U.S.
under existing double-taxation agreements, it said.  Switzerland is the biggest center for global offshore
wealth with $2.2 trillion, or about 26 percent of the market,
according to  Boston Consulting Group .  The government has already issued similar authorizations
for banks including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  last year. The lender
is among a group of at least 12 financial institutions already
subject to a U.S. probe.  Lawsuit Fear  So-called leaver lists of clients who left for another
Swiss bank can be transmitted as long as they don’t include any
personalized data, Widmer-Schlumpf said.  This may not stop banks from handing over some data not
covered by the government’s rules, Peter V. Kunz, a professor of
comparative law at the University of Bern, said in an interview
with Swiss public broadcaster SRF before the announcement.  “Should their existence be threatened banks would
certainly consider violating Swiss law,” Kunz told SRF. “The
fear of a U.S. lawsuit is too great.”  Parliament opposed the bill on the grounds it was a blank
check to the U.S. and that lawmakers were left in the dark about
the terms banks might face.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  