-- U.K. to Charge Migrants 200 Pound Fee to Access Health
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-07-03T09:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/u-k-to-charge-migrants-200-pound-fee-to-access-health.html
Health Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  is
examining whether migrants and students coming to the U.K. for
more than six months should be charged 200 pounds ($303) a year
to access the state-run  National Health Service .  “We want to have a system that is sustainable, but also
one that is fair to hardworking British families -- we pay about
5,000 pounds a year for every family in the U.K. in taxes to pay
for our NHS and we want to ask other people who are visiting the
U.K. to make a fair contribution if they’re not paying those
taxes,” Hunt told the  BBC ’s “Breakfast” program today.  While the nation’s 100 billion pounds-a-year health budget
was protected from government spending cuts last week, Hunt is
under pressure to show it too can save money as other areas of
spending are squeezed. While ministers are considering whether
to add the cost to visa charges, Hunt said today that nobody
would be denied emergency care.  “We don’t want any doctors or any hospitals ever to turn
people away who need help in an emergency -- that’s what they’re
there for and that’s what our NHS is there for,” Hunt said.  “We are the most generous country in the world when it
comes to that kind of thing,” he said. “If you go and study in
 Australia , you have to pay a levy, if you go and study in
America, you have to get private health insurance and we’re the
only big country that doesn’t make any charge at all.”  The opposition  Labour Party ’s public health spokesman  Diane Abbott  posted a comment on Twitter condemning the plan. She said
it would discourage at-risk groups from accessing HIV testing.  “What price xenophobia?” she said today. “Stigmatizing
foreigners accessing NHS creates a public health risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  