-- U.K. Liberal Democrats Said to Demand Scaling Back of Trident
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-07-03T09:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/u-k-liberal-democrats-said-to-demand-scaling-back-of-trident.html
The junior partner in Prime Minister
David Cameron’s coalition government may call for Britain to
give up its permanent at-sea nuclear deterrent, a person
familiar with the policy said.  The Liberal Democrats have been examining alternatives to
the Trident weapons program in preparation for the 2015 general
election. The party may propose mothballing two of the four
submarines that carry Trident, ending the U.K.’s ability to keep
nuclear weapons at sea at all times.  The proposal, which some Liberal Democrats want to apply
from 2016, would keep two of the existing  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) 
Vanguard submarines in port with skeleton crews and used for
spare parts to keep the remaining boats operational, the person
said on condition of anonymity because the report has yet to be
published. The Royal Navy says four vessels are needed to
maintain at least one at sea at all times.  The Trident issue has dogged relations in the coalition,
with Cameron’s Conservatives favoring a like-for-like
replacement at a cost of about 20 billion pounds ($30.4
billion.) The Liberal Democrats say billions of pounds can be
saved by scaling back the program. A decision must be taken by
2016.  With Cameron’s Tories trailing the opposition Labour Party
in the polls, the Liberal Democrats may once again hold the
balance of power after the 2015 election. Liberal Democrat Leader 
Nick Clegg has said he is already looking at policy “red lines” that 
must be included in future coalition negotiations. A government review
of options, undertaken at the request of the Liberal Democrats,
is due to be published this month.  “While the review doesn’t come to any conclusions, I think
when we publish the results in a few weeks’ time people will see
that there are choices available to this country, there are
alternatives where we can move on from the Cold War postures of
the past,” Liberal Democrat lawmaker Danny Alexander, who led
the review, told BBC Television on June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  