-- U.K. Services Growth Accelerates as Recovery Takes Hold: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-03T10:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/u-k-services-growth-accelerates-in-june-to-fastest-in-two-years.html
U.K. services  growth unexpectedly
accelerated to its fastest pace in more than two years in June
in a sign the recovery is gaining strength.  An index of activity rose to 56.9 from 54.9 in May, Markit
Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply 
said today in London. Economists had forecast 54.5 in June,
according to the median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Readings above 50 indicate expansion. The pound rose.  Manufacturing and  construction  also strengthened in June
and Markit said its indexes point to second-quarter economic
growth of at least 0.5 percent. With the economy improving, the
Monetary Policy Committee will probably leave its stimulus
program unchanged tomorrow as  Mark Carney  leads his first
meeting after taking over at the  Bank of England .  “The breadth of the improvement in the U.K. data is
striking,” said Allan Monks, an economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in London. “It is too early to identify the demand drivers
of the upswing. But the output data alone are enough to suggest
this strength will spill over into the third quarter.”  The pound rose against dollar after the report. It was at
$1.5245 as of 10:57 a.m. in London, up 0.6 percent from
yesterday. The yield on the 10-year U.K. government bond dropped
4 basis points to 2.34 percent.  Confidence Improves  New business at service companies climbed at the strongest
pace in six years, leading to the fastest increase in backlogs
and hiring since August 2007, Markit said. Sentiment was at the
highest in 14 months.  While output prices rose at the most in two years in June,
input costs increased faster, putting margins under pressure,
according to Markit. “Competition prevented companies from
fully passing on higher cost burdens,” it said.  Markit’s U.K. construction index rose to 51 in June from
50.8 in May, while the  factory gauge  climbed to a two-year high
of 52.5 from 51.5.  “New orders and  job creation  across all sectors are now
rising at the fastest rates for almost six years, led by the
vast services economy, boding well for robust growth momentum to
be sustained as we move into the second half of the year,”
Markit Chief Economist  Chris Williamson  said.  The BOE will keep its  quantitative-easing program  at 375
billion pounds ($571 billion) tomorrow, according to all 44
economists in a poll. It will also hold the key  interest rate  at
a record low of 0.5 percent, another survey shows.  The industry data “mark a good first week for the new Bank
of  England  governor and will ease pressure on the MPC to embark
on another round of QE,” CIPS Chief Executive Officer  David Noble  said.  Credit Conditions  Data from the BOE today showed banks boosted mortgage
availability and lowered borrowing costs in the second quarter
and signaled they may increase the supply of riskier loans.  An index of home-loan availability rose to 17.4 from 17 in
the first three months of the year as banks pushed for market
share, according to the quarterly Credit Conditions Survey. An
expectations index for the third quarter was at 17.2.  “Evidence that a recovery in the economy may be finally
taking root is becoming more telling,” said Martin Beck, an
economist at  Capital Economics  in London. “The recovery still
faces some headwinds but, for now at least, things seem to be
moving in the right direction.”  Euro Recession  In the euro region, the picture is less positive, with a
 services gauge  showing the industry contracted at a faster pace
than initially estimated in June as the 17-nation currency bloc
struggled to emerge from a record-long recession. The index rose
to 48.3 from 47.2 in May, Markit said separately today. That’s
below an initial estimate of 48.6 on June 20. A composite gauge
of euro-area services and manufacturing output increased to 48.7
from 47.7.  Growth in  China ’s  service industries  slowed last month,
according to a separate report today. The official non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index from the National
Bureau of Statistics and the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing fell to 53.9 in June, a nine-month low, from 54.3 in
May. Another service PMI released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit rose to 51.3 last month from 51.2 in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  