-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for June 28 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2013-07-03T14:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-june-28-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 16.1 million barrels per
day during the week ending June 28, 2013, 386 thousand barrels
per day above the previous week’s average. Refineries operated
at 92.2 percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production increased last week, averaging about 9.4 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production decreased last week,
averaging over 4.8 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 7.4 million barrels per day last
week, down by 891 thousand barrels per day from the previous
week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports averaged 8.0
million barrels per day, 1.1 million barrels per day below the
same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline imports
(including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 465 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 102 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 10.3 million barrels
from the previous week. At 383.8 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by
1.7 million barrels last week and are well above the upper limit
of the average range. Both finished gasoline inventories and
blending components inventories decreased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories decreased by 2.4 million barrels last week and
near the lower limit of the average range for this time of year.
Propane/propylene inventories increased by 1.5 million barrels
last week and are in the upper half of the average range. Total
commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 14.7 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period averaged
over 18.9 million barrels per day, down by 1.3 percent from the
same period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor gasoline
product supplied averaged 8.9 million barrels per day, equal to
last year’s level. Distillate fuel product supplied averaged 4.1
million barrels per day over the last four weeks, up by 10.6
percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 6.3 percent lower over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  