-- U.S. Yield Forecasts Rise to Eight-Month High on Fed Outlook
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-07-03T07:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/u-s-yield-forecasts-rise-to-eight-month-high-on-fed-outlook.html
Economists boosted forecasts for U.S.
10-year yields to the most in eight months on speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will reduce its bond purchases this year.  Yields will be at 2.42 percent by Dec. 31, according to
Bloomberg surveys of banks and securities companies, with the
most recent predictions given the heaviest weightings. The
estimate has climbed from this year’s low of 2.14 percent in
January as growth in the economy gives the Fed room to scale
back quantitative easing. The U.S. is to announce today the size
of three-, 10- and 30-year auctions scheduled for three days
starting July 9. Treasuries fell seven of the last nine weeks.  “We are still waiting” to buy, said Kim Youngsung, the
head of fixed income in Seoul at Samsung Asset Management Co.,
 South Korea ’s largest private bond investor with the equivalent
of $99.3 billion in assets. “I haven’t seen this kind of a
decline in the last couple of years. Quantitative easing will be
stopped next year.”  Benchmark 10-year  yields  were little changed at 2.46
percent as of 8:04 a.m. London time, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The price of the 1.75 percent note due in May 2023
was 93 25/32. While forecasts are rising, the projection is less
than the current yield, suggesting a two-month rout is ending.  The U.S. will probably sell $32 billion of 3-year debt, $21
billion of 10-year notes and $13 billion of 30-year securities,
according to Stone & McCarthy Research Associates, an economic
advisory company in Princeton,  New Jersey . The U.S. issues this
combination of securities every month.  Treasury Losses  U.S. government securities lost 2.7 percent in the past
three months, the  Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index (BUSY)  shows.  Bill Gross ’s  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s largest
mutual fund, absorbed a record $9.9 billion in net redemptions
last month. Pacific Investment Management Co., the  Newport
Beach , California-based firm that runs the fund, provided the
preliminary estimate to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , the Chicago-based
research firm said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The
withdrawals left the fund with $268 billion in assets at the end
of June, Morningstar said.  Volume at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S.
government debt , increased 11 percent yesterday to $277.3
billion, after falling to $250.9 billion the day before, which
was the least since May 7.  Trading in Treasuries is scheduled to close at 2 p.m.  New
York  time and stay shut tomorrow for a public holiday, according
to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
 website .  Fed Stimulus  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities each month to support the economy by putting
downward pressure on borrowing costs.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 that policy makers
may begin slowing purchases this year if the economy achieves
the sustainable growth the central bank has sought since the
last recession ended in 2009.  Employers added 165,000 workers last month, after hiring
175,000 in May, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before the Labor Department data on July 5.  Data today will show companies in the U.S. boosted
employment and service industries expanded in June, according to
separate Bloomberg surveys. The Labor Department’s weekly report
on initial claims for jobless insurance will say applications
were little changed at 345,000, economists project.  Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $59.6
billion in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., dropped
his earlier view for Treasury yields to fall.  “I’ve turned bearish for the coming year,” said
Shimomura, the chief fund investor at the unit of Japan’s
largest publicly traded bank. “There’s a chance that the Fed
will start to hike rates as early as the latter half of 2014.
After they finish QE, theoretically they can raise rates.”  Ten-year yields may rise to 3 1/3 percent in the next 12
months, Shimomura said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 