-- U.S. 30-Year Mortgage Rates Drop From a Two-Year High
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-07-03T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/u-s-30-year-mortgage-rates-drop-from-a-two-year-high.html
Mortgage rates for 30-year U.S. loans
declined, reducing borrowing costs for homebuyers after the
biggest jump in 26 years.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage fell to 4.29
percent from a two-year high of 4.46 percent last week, McLean,
Virginia-based Freddie Mac said in a statement today. The
average 15-year rate dropped to 3.39 percent from 3.5 percent.  Rates are adjusting after spiking over expectations that
the Federal Reserve will scale back bond purchases, said Keith Gumbinger, vice president of HSH.com, a Riverdale, New Jersey-based mortgage-information website. Last week’s increase in the
30-year average was the biggest since 1987.  “We see rates starting to settle back after the panic
move,” Gumbinger said yesterday.  The average 30-year rate has increased from a near-record
low of 3.35 percent in early May. It is still well below the
average of about 5.3 percent over the past 10 years, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Buyers seeking to take advantage of rates before they climb
further are competing for a tight  supply  of listings, driving up
values. U.S. home prices rose 12.2 percent in May from a year
earlier, the largest increase since February 2006,  Irvine ,
California-based CoreLogic Inc. said yesterday.  Refinancing Declines  The increase in borrowing costs is having more of an effect
on refinancing than purchases. The Mortgage Bankers Association
index of  refinance  applications declined 15.6 percent in the
week ended June 28 to the lowest level since July 2011, the
Washington-based trade group said today. The gauge for  purchase 
applications fell 3.1 percent, while remaining 12 percent higher
than a year ago.  “It’s possible that the rise in rates is encouraging those
thinking about buying to commit to a purchase now to avoid
further rate hikes, hence the resilience of applications for
home purchase,”  Paul Diggle , property economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London , wrote in a note today. “But the
bigger point is that, with rates still at historically very low
levels and affordability favorable, there’s no reason that
housing demand cannot continue strengthening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  