-- U.S. Exchanges Said to Seek Delay for Volatility Curbs
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i   a n d   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-07-03T00:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/u-s-exchanges-said-to-seek-delay-for-volatility-curbs.html
The biggest U.S. equity exchange
operators and an industry trade group plan to ask the Securities
and Exchange Commission to delay the final phase of a marketwide
program aimed at curbing sudden stock swings, according to three
people with direct knowledge of the matter.  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association plan to seek more
time to consider how the program known as limit-up/limit-down
will work in the final minutes of trading, according to the
people, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.  Regulators have been fine-tuning systems for curbing
volatility since the so-called flash crash of May 2010 briefly
erased $862 billion from equity markets. The limit-up/limit-down
initiative replaces a system of share halts known as circuit
breakers and has been phased-in gradually since April.  Sifma spokeswoman Liz Pierce,  Nasdaq  spokesman Joseph
Christinat and NYSE spokesman  Rich Adamonis  declined to comment
on the exchanges’ intention.  As part of its implementation, limit-up/limit-down has been
turned off during the first 15 minutes and last 30 minutes of
the trading day, when volume is greatest. Exchange officials are
concerned that enabling it in the last half hour will make an
orderly close difficult by preventing some stocks from reopening
after they are paused, the people said.  The program is scheduled to be extended to 9:30 a.m. to 4
p.m. on Aug. 1. Sifma and the trading venues plan to argue that
there’s not enough time to resolve the issue and ask that the
extension to the final half-hour be pushed back, according to
two of the people. The exchanges and Sifma do not object to the
curbs being implemented in the first 15 minutes for most stocks
starting Aug. 1, the people said.  Expanded Coverage  All stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and Russell
1000 Index are due to be covered by the program by the end of
July, as well as some exchange-traded products, according to a
summary on Nasdaq’s website.  Under limit-up/limit down, 15-second pauses are triggered
if orders to buy or sell stock are outside a preset price band.
The period provides time for subsequent bids and offers to move
back toward the market price. If they remain outside the band, a
five-minute halt starts.  The SEC anticipates receiving a letter soon from Sifma
explaining how the industry wants to proceed on applying limit-up/limit-down to the close, said a fourth person familiar with
the matter. The commission would have to approve the decision.
 John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  Closing Auction  The securities industry previously voiced its concern about
the impact of the new rule at the market close.  In response to the SEC order about limit-up/limit-down, the
agency said it received six comment letters, including one from
Sifma, asking that the rule not be put in effect for the final
10 minutes of the trading day.  “Given that liquidity often is highest at or around the
close of trading, we believe that continuous trading -- without
the application of price bands or trading pauses -- should be
permitted for some period of time prior to the close of
trading,” wrote Ann Vlcek, managing director and associate
general counsel at Sifma, in a June 22, 2011,  letter .  “In all instances, the commission should avoid any
situation in which a pause may occur near the close of regular
trading in a manner that does not permit an exchange to conduct
an orderly reopening to establish a closing price for a stock,”
she wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  