-- Murderous Mob Inspires Pakistani Artist’s Red Met Rooftop
-- B y   L i l i   R o s b o c h
-- 2013-07-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/murderous-mob-inspires-pakistani-artist-s-red-met-rooftop.html
The rooftop of the  Metropolitan
Museum  of Art is a bloody scene.  Pakistani artist Imran Qureshi splashed buckets of red
acrylic paint on the almost 8,000-square-foot display-area
floor.  It’s only as you get closer that you see the countless
leaves beautifully drawn in red and white on the Pollock-like
background.  Trained in traditional miniature painting, Qureshi offers
details that are reminiscent of Mughal gardens yet echo the
surrounding trees of  Central Park .  He was selected as  Deutsche Bank (DBK) ’s “ Artist of the Year
2013 ,” for which the criteria include both aesthetic
considerations and an engagement with social concerns. I spoke
with Qureshi, 41, at the  Met  a day before the unveiling of his
 installation .  Rosboch: This work embodies contradictions, including
violence and rebirth.  Qureshi: Yes, it looks like petals and like blood -- it
attracts you and repels you at the same time. Nature represents
life and emerges from the red, from the violence.  Rosboch: What inspired you?  Qureshi: The idea came from an incident in  Pakistan  when
two young brothers were beaten to death by an angry mob in 2010.
This was so terrible that we thought the nation was dead. But
then a reaction came from the people.  They were out on the roads, demonstrating, on TV, on other
media. And I saw a lot of hope coming out of that violent
episode. I saw the country caring about other people, about
their own lives.  Walking Work  Rosboch: Why do you let visitors walk on the work?  Qureshi: We’ve had so many bomb blasts and people suffering
in Pakistan, and when these things happen, people are asked to
stay away and officials investigate. And nobody really knows
what the reason behind the violence was.  I made this work interactive so that people could
investigate it themselves and get multiple meanings out of it.  Rosboch: What will happen at the end of the exhibition?  Qureshi: The work will be washed off, but I don’t have bad
feelings about it.  It’s very special for the people around it because it won’t
stay much longer, unlike a canvas that can be kept and seen
forever.  Rosboch: Will you document it before it’s gone?  Miniature Training  Qureshi: Yes, I sometimes make miniatures of my own work.  I was trained as a miniature painter, so it’s how a small
thing works on a really large scale and then goes back to the
tradition.  Rosboch: What are the main characteristics of miniature
painting?  Qureshi: We make our own brushes, which are extremely fine,
with local organic materials. We process our own paints, make
our own paper. Application and rendering are very different.
Perspective is not the same. It’s very flat, two-dimensional.  Rosboch: You’ve lived your whole life in Pakistan. Do you
ever think of moving away?  Qureshi: Never. I could not live anywhere else.  I travel, work and go back. I don’t even spend extra time
abroad after I’ve finished working. And I’ve seen many places,
but I feel really happy there.  Nawaz Sharif  Rosboch: Pakistan recently elected a new prime minister,
 Nawaz Sharif .  Qureshi: Yes, and I think this election was different and
good on many levels. It was the first time in history that so
many young people were involved because of  Imran Khan .  He wasn’t in the majority at all but at least he woke up
the youth and brought them into the process of democracy.  Secondly, it seems like Nawaz Sharif holds a majority. So
if he wants to, he can really do good things for the country.  Rosboch: You’re very involved with young people yourself.  Qureshi: I teach full time and I’m curating a show of
graduates from different institutions all over Pakistan.  It won’t be about big names but more about the work itself.
And it will give an idea of how exciting the new art scene in
Pakistan is.  Something you won’t find anywhere else is that in Pakistan
all the practitioners, successful in their field, are seriously
involved with teaching at one of the art institutions. It’s
amazing.  “The Roof Garden Commission: Imran Qureshi” runs through
Nov. 3 at 1000 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-535-7710;
 http://www.metmuseum.org/ .  (Lili Rosboch writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are her own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Laurie Muchnick on  books , Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lili Rosboch in  New York  at 
 erosboch2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 