-- Murdoch Knew of Pay for Tips at Newspapers, Website Says
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2013-07-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/murdoch-knew-of-pay-for-tips-at-newspapers-website-says.html
Rupert Murdoch  knew for years that
journalists at his U.K. newspapers were paying public officials
for tips, a British website reported, citing a recording of a
conversation the executive had with journalists at the Sun.  “We’re talking about payments for news tips from cops:
That’s been going on a hundred years, absolutely,” Murdoch,
News Corp.’s chairman, told staffers at the U.K. newspaper,
according to  ExaroNews , which reported yesterday on the
recording.  News Corp. continues to deal with fallout from the hacking
scandal at its U.K. newspapers. Last month the company won
approval of a $139 million settlement of investor litigation
over the matter. British prosecutors said last month that a Sun
journalist and corrections officer face criminal charges over
bribes paid for information about U.K. prisons.  “Mr. Murdoch never knew of payments made by Sun staff to
police before  News Corp . disclosed that to U.K. authorities,”
the New York-based company said yesterday in a
statement. “Furthermore, he never said he knew of
payments. It’s absolutely false to suggest otherwise.”  News Corp. said no other company “has done as much to
identify what went wrong, compensate the victims, and ensure the
same mistakes do not happen again.” The company also cited
cooperation with courts by its management standards committee.  News Corp., the publishing arm of Murdoch’s empire, fell
0.9 percent to $14.87 yesterday in  New York . Murdoch split his
newspaper division from his entertainment businesses last week.
21st Century Fox Inc., the new film and TV company, gained 1.5
percent to $29.65.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  