-- Murray Relies on Experience, Serve in Wimbledon Comeback
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-07-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/murray-relies-on-experience-serve-in-wimbledon-comeback.html
Andy Murray  let the serve that had
abandoned him earlier save him twice at break point in the
fourth set of his Wimbledon quarterfinal victory against
 Fernando Verdasco .  After struggling on his serve in losing the first two sets
6-4, 6-3 against the 54th-ranked Spaniard yesterday, Murray
recovered to take the third. When the world No. 2 was a point
away from going down 4-2 in the fourth, Murray reacted with a
service winner and an ace. After breaking for a 4-3 lead, he
forced a decider, which he won to reach his fifth straight
semifinal at the All England Club in  London .  “You’re obviously concerned,” Murray said in a news
conference after fighting back from a two-set deficit for the
seventh time in his career. “But when you’ve been in that
position a lot of times you know how to think through it and not
get too far ahead of yourself. I definitely didn’t rush when I
went two sets to love down. I slowed myself down, if anything,
and that was a good sign.”  The sixth game of the fourth set was “the key to the
match,” left-handed Verdasco said.  “He made all the first serves in, he didn’t give me the
chance to even play the points,” he said.  Murray, 26, got to break point at 5-5 in the fifth set as
Verdasco netted a backhand after a 20-stroke rally. Murray
clenched his fist and looked at his coach  Ivan Lendl  as he broke
with a forehand.  Match Points  Murray set up three match points with his 13th ace. A roar
rolled from Centre Court to “Murray Mound,” the hill adjacent
to No. 1 Court where thousands of spectators watched on a giant
video screen, after the Scot clinched the victory on a long
backhand. He won the last three sets 6-1, 6-4, 7-5.  No British man since  Fred Perry  77 years ago has won the
singles title at Wimbledon.  Murray will play  Jerzy Janowicz , the 24th seed, for a spot
in his second straight Wimbledon final. Murray lost to seven-time champion  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  last year and went on
to beat the Swiss in the gold medal match at the London Olympics
in August on Wimbledon’s Centre Court. A month after that,
Murray secured his first major singles title at the  U.S. Open .  In today’s women’s semifinals, Agnieszka Radwanska of
 Poland  will try to reach her second straight Wimbledon
championship match as she plays Germany’s Sabine Lisicki.
France’s  Marion Bartoli , the runner-up in 2007, faces Belgium’s
Kirsten Flipkens. None of the four has won a Grand Slam title.  Murray and Janowicz, who beat Lukasz Kubot 7-5, 6-4, 6-4 in
the first major championship quarterfinal between two Polish
men, have split two previous meetings.  Djokovic, Del Potro  The other men’s semifinal tomorrow will pit top-seeded
Novak Djokovic of  Serbia , the 2011 champion, against Juan Martin Del Potro, who both won their quarterfinals in straight sets.
Djokovic leads former U.S. Open winner Del Potro 8-3.  “It will be a very tough match,” Murray said of his next
opponent, who is 6-foot-8 (2.03 meters) and has a 140 miles-per-hour serve (225 kph). “He’s a big guy with a lot of power. He
also has pretty good touch. He likes to hit drop shots. He
doesn’t just whack every single shot as hard as he can.”  Janowicz is betting that playing for a place in history
will unsettle Murray.  “I hope Andy will feel some kind of pressure,” Janowicz
said. “I’m sure he feels some kind of pressure because  Great
Britain  is waiting for the champion in Wimbledon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  