-- Murray Escapes Two-Set Hole to Reach Wimbledon Semi-Final
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-07-03T19:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/murray-escapes-two-set-hole-to-reach-semifinals-at-wimbledon.html
Andy Murray  escaped from a two-set
hole to reach the Wimbledon semifinals and keep alive his latest
chance of becoming the first British man to win the Grand Slam
tennis title since 1936.  Murray, the  U.S. Open  champion and seeded second at
Wimbledon, beat unseeded  Fernando Verdasco  of  Spain  4-6, 3-6, 6-1, 6-4, 7-5 on Centre Court at the All England Club.  “I fought as hard as I could,” Murray said in a televised
interview. “I tried incredibly hard and chased every ball down
from the first one.”  In a tournament filled with upsets, where only half the top
10 seeds in the men’s and women’s draws combined reached the
third round, it looked for almost two hours as if this overcast
afternoon would produce the loss felt the hardest in southwest
 London . No British man since  Fred Perry  77 years ago has won the
singles title at Wimbledon.  Murray came back against Verdasco and held on for the home-court victory, winning from two sets down for the seventh time
in his career and reaching the Wimbledon semifinals for the
fifth straight year. The 26-year-old from  Scotland  produced 36
winners, including 14 aces, compared with 45 winners and 11 aces
for Verdasco. The 29-year-old Spaniard made 45 unforced errors,
18 more than his opponent.  Poland Win  Murray will play for a spot in the championship match
against  Jerzy Janowicz , the 24th seed, who beat Lukasz Kubot 7-5, 6-4, 6-4 in the first quarterfinal between two Polish men at
the All England Club. Murray and Janowicz have split two
previous meetings.  “He serves at about 140 miles-per-hour,” Murray said
about the 6-foot-8 Janowicz. “It will be a very tough match.”  The other semifinal in two days will pit top-seeded Novak Djokovic against Juan Martin Del Potro, who each also won their
quarterfinals in straight sets. Djokovic leads Del Potro 8-3.  Janowicz was overcome by emotion after he beat Kubot to
become the first Polish man to reach a major semifinal.
Agnieszka Radwanska, his friend and countrywoman, reached the
last four yesterday.  “Simply I was crying,” Janowicz, 22, said in a news
conference. “I was practicing really tough my whole life. I had
some troubles also during my career. You are practicing and
working for that kind of moment.”  Streak Continues  Djokovic beat former runner-up Tomas Berdych of the  Czech
Republic , 7-6 (7-5), 6-4, 6-3 to reach his 13th consecutive
Grand Slam semifinal. Djokovic was down 3-0 in the second set.  “I’m really going to try to step out on the court in two
days and give my best to be in another final of Wimbledon,”
said Djokovic, the 2011 champion who hasn’t dropped a set at the
tournament this year. “I believe I can make it. Now, of course
I have a quality opponent. There are no real clear favorites now
in the later stages of the event.”  Del Potro, a former U.S. Open champion from  Argentina ,
overcame an injury on his already taped knee after he fell in
the first game against fourth-seeded  David Ferrer  of Spain.
Given anti-inflammatories by the tournament doctor, he recovered
to beat the French Open runner-up, 6-2, 6-4, 7-6 (7-5).  “I will need to be 100 percent or 110 percent” for his
next match, Del Potro told reporters. “He’s the No. 1. He’s a
former champion here. It’s going to be more difficult match for
me than today.”  Tearful Loss  Reduced to tears after last year’s Wimbledon final loss to
 Roger Federer  of  Switzerland , Murray responded by beating the
17-time major champion in the gold-medal match at the London
Olympics, and went on to take his first major title at the U.S.
Open in September, where he beat  Serbia ’s Djokovic for the
championship.  Murray’s path to another final in London this year seemed
to have eased after two-time winner  Rafael Nadal  of Spain lost
in the opening round, followed by Federer in the second round.
Murray, who had been beaten by Nadal three times at Wimbledon,
could have faced either one in the semifinals.  Verdasco is ranked 54th on the ATP World Tour and ninth
among Spanish players, and was 1-8 against Murray before today.
That one win came in a major, too, in the fourth round of the
2009 Australian Open.  Murray had been wary before today’s match about facing his
first left-handed opponent since last year’s U.S. Open. Saying
he wasn’t taking anything for granted despite Federer and Nadal
being knocked out, Murray tried to avoid hitting to Verdasco’s
top-spin-laden forehand from the start.  Sir Alex  Watched from the Royal Box by recently retired Manchester
United manager  Alex Ferguson , Murray failed to convert a break
point in the third game, and another one in the ninth game.
Verdasco seized his first break opportunity, moving to set point
with a forehand winner and winning the first set as Murray
double faulted.  It was Murray’s first lost set of the tournament, and he
responded aggressively, breaking for a 2-1 lead in the second
set as a hard backhand drew the error. He then dropped serve for
3-3 with four unforced errors. Another break followed, and
Verdasco took a two-set lead as Murray hit a backhand a yard
long on the final point.  Murray held serve from 15-30 to start the third set and won
to move within a set of tying the match. He then broke
Verdasco’s serve for a 4-3 lead in the fourth set, held at love
and sent the match to the decisive fifth set with another love
service game, capped by a put-away off a short lob.  Down 15-30 at 3-3 in the final set, Verdasco produced a 113
miles-per-hour serve down the middle as chalk flew up, and held
with another ace. Murray finally got the service break he needed
for a 6-5 lead and wrapped up the match with a love service game
that ended when Verdasco sent a backhand long.  “There’s been a lot of matches when I’ve been behind and
managed to turn them around,” Murray said. “Towards the end it
was an unbelievable atmosphere. Great to get through that one
and get through to the semifinals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  