-- Venezuela ‘Birther’ Movement Questions President’s Eligibility
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v
-- 2013-07-03T20:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/venezuela-birther-movement-questions-president-s-eligibility.html
Venezuela ’s opposition has tried and
failed to unseat President Nicolas Maduro through street
protests and court pleas since he won the narrowest election
victory in 45 years in April. Their latest tactic is to question
his nationality.  Maduro, 50, was born in the Colombian city of Cucuta to
Colombian parents, opposition lawmaker Abelardo Diaz alleged at
an event in Caracas today, brandishing copies of what he said
were the identity documents of the president’s parents. The
opposition will now ask Colombia’s  Supreme Court  whether this
makes Maduro a Colombian citizen. If so, he would fall foul of
the constitution, which states the president must be
“Venezuelan by birth” and not have other nationalities.  “We haven’t seen a single document showing Maduro’s
birthplace,” said Diaz. “We are asking the acting president to
tell Venezuelan people the truth.”  Maduro is the hand-picked successor of the late  Hugo Chavez , who died from cancer in March. A former union leader,
Maduro has overseen  Latin America ’s fastest inflation and
mounting shortages of everything from toilet paper to butter
since coming to office.  Maduro said June 17 in  Italy  that he was born in the Los
Chaguaramos district of Venezuela’s capital, Caracas. Foreign
Minister Elias Jaua said the same day that the president is a
native of El Valle district, which borders Los Chaguaramos.
Tachira Governor Jose Vielma said in April that Maduro is a
native of that western Venezuelan state.  Spokesmen for Venezuela’s Information Ministry and
presidential office didn’t immediately answer phone calls
seeking comment.  A ruling by Colombia’s Supreme Court that Maduro is
Colombian would make Maduro ineligible for the presidency.  “This would make it irrelevant whether Maduro was born in
Venezuela,  Colombia , or anywhere else,” said Diaz. “Under our
constitution, president can’t have dual nationality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Caracas at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  