-- Wal-Mart, Home Depot Among Those Probed on Payroll Cards
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-07-03T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/wal-mart-home-depot-among-those-probed-on-payroll-cards.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Home Depot
Inc. are among the companies being investigated by the  New York 
attorney general over fees charged employees on prepaid cards
used as worker paychecks.  The companies, which include  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and
 Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , were asked for information about their
use of the cards, including disclosures to employees and fees
that workers pay, according to letters obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  “We are concerned about excessive or insufficiently
disclosed fees which may unduly reduce employees’ take-home
pay,” New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s office said
in the letters to the companies yesterday.  The use of prepaid payroll cards is growing, according to a
February 2013 report by research and advisory firm  Aite Group ,
which said $34 billion in gross dollar volume was loaded onto
4.6 million active payroll cards in 2012. The firm projects
those figures to rise to $68.9 billion and 10.8 million cards by
2017.  Banks with payroll card programs include  Bank of America
Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , according to
the report. Aite Group calls payroll cards a “sales
opportunity” for bank issuers that can generate fee revenue and
potentially new consumer-banking customers.  Schneiderman’s probe into the prepaid cards comes as his
office investigates possible labor violations by fast-food
restaurants in New York, including failure to pay overtime and
insufficient reimbursement for work-related expenses.  Home Depot, Costco  In the inquiry into payroll cards, New York is seeking
information from the companies to determine whether their
practices comply with New York labor law, according to the
letters.  Other companies contacted by the attorney general are
 Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  and  Walgreen Co. (WAG)   Walgreen employees are offered payroll cards as an option
and aren’t required to accept wages on the cards, Jim Graham, a
spokesman for the Deerfield, Illinois-based company, said in an
e-mail.  The company negotiated agreements with ATM providers in its
stores to accept Walgreen pay cards without fees for
withdrawals, he said. The cards also give employees immediate
access to their pay, and those without bank accounts can avoid
fees they may otherwise pay to cash checks, Graham said.  Representatives of the other companies either couldn’t be
reached for comment on the letters or declined to comment on
them.  Written Consent  State law requires that employees must give advance written
consent to be paid by payroll cards and any agreement to receive
wages by the cards can’t be a condition of employment, the
attorney general’s office said.  The office wants a summary report of fees paid by employees
or deducted from accounts as a result of payroll cards and
documents provided to employees that disclose fees they may be
charged. It’s also seeking communications between the companies
and their payroll card provider or financial institution
concerning the payroll card payment system used.  “Employees must have a method to obtain all of their wages
in a timely manner, without incurring fees,” Schneiderman’s
office said in the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  