-- Western Forest Jumps on Buyback, Dividend Plan: Vancouver Mover
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-07-03T20:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/western-forest-jumps-on-buyback-dividend-plan-vancouver-mover.html
Western Forest Products Inc. (WEF) , the
largest lumber producer on British Columbia’s coast, rose the
most in almost two months after it announced plans to buy back
shares and pay a dividend for the first time.  Western, based in Duncan, British Columbia, rose 4.7
percent to C$1.34 by the 4 p.m. close of trading in Toronto
today, the biggest one-day gain since May 8.  Recovery in the U.S. housing market has boosted forestry
companies over the past 12 months. Western has advanced 60
percent over that time, trailing the 73 percent average increase
of Western Forest’s nine Canadian peers, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg..  The C$802.6 million ($764 million) company will buy back
C$100 million in shares and begin a quarterly dividend of 2
cents a share starting in the fiscal third quarter, it said in a
statement late yesterday.  “I still see this as an undervalued story,” said Mark Kennedy, an analyst at  CIBC World Markets  in Calgary. Western
has paid off all its debt and is returning capital to
shareholders, he said.  While companies such as  Canfor Corp. (CFP)  and West Fraser Timber
Co. Ltd. harvest trees inland, Western has rights on  Canada ’s
west coast, meaning it cuts a wider selection of trees used for
niche markets like fine trim and molding, said Kennedy.  “They’re the largest cedar producer in  North America  and
cedar is more geared to repair and renovation activity as
opposed to new housing activity,” he said. Kennedy has a  price
target  of C$2 over the next two years, as the renovation sector
picks up following new house construction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  