-- Wheat Advances Most in Two Weeks on Asia, Egypt Demand
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-07-03T18:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/wheat-advances-for-second-day-after-egypt-purchases-180-000-tons.html
Wheat futures rose the most in two
weeks on signs of increased demand after purchases by  Egypt  and
 China . Soybeans gained and corn was unchanged.  Egypt, the world’s top wheat importer, bought 180,000
metric tons of Ukrainian and Romanian grain yesterday in the
first tender since February. The country said in June it had
enough supplies to last through mid-November. U.S. exporters
reported sales of 360,000 tons of the soft red winter variety to
China. Yesterday, futures dropped to the lowest in 12 months.  “There are some ideas that China is going to rebuild its
stockpiles a little bit,” Jason Britt, the president of Central
States Commodities Inc., a brokerage in Kansas City, Missouri,
said by telephone. “We’re seeing some bargain hunting.”  Wheat futures for September delivery gained 1 percent to
settle at $6.65 a bushel at noon on the Chicago Board of Trade,
the biggest increase for a most-active contract since June 19.
Trading closed early today, and the CBOT will be shut tomorrow
for the U.S. Independence Day holiday.  The grain has dropped 15 percent this year on speculation
that global production will rebound following dry weather last
season in  Russia , Eastern Europe and the U.S., the biggest
exporter.  China’s grain-reserves agency bought U.S. wheat through
state-owned trader COFCO Corp. in transactions traders said may
reach 600,000 tons, according to two executives who asked not to
be identified because the information is private.  Nonghyup Feed Inc., South Korea’s top feed miller, bought
an undisclosed amount of grain for delivery in October.  Soybean futures for November delivery added 0.7 percent to
$12.5075 a bushel in Chicago, snapping a five-session decline,
the longest slump since mid-March.  Corn futures for December delivery were unchanged at
$5.0275 a bushel on the CBOT. Yesterday, the price touched
$4.965, the lowest since October 2010. Trading was down 60
percent from the 100-day average at this time of day, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, followed by soybeans, hay
and wheat, USDA data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  Chicago  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  