-- Twitter Debuts Customer-Matching Tool for Advertisers
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-07-03T17:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/twitter-debuts-customer-matching-tool-for-advertisers.html
Twitter Inc. is releasing a tool that
makes it easier for advertisers to find their customers who also
use the social-messaging service.  The feature will let marketers review e-mail addresses to
identify and target users who match up with a company’s own
customer lists, San Francisco-based Twitter said in a blog post
today.  Twitter is working to help advertisers target its 200
million members as the microblogging site seeks to reach $1
billion in sales by next year. The customer-matching option
steps up competition with Facebook Inc. for social-network
advertising revenue, which is set to grow 32 percent this year
to $9.08 billion, according to EMarketer Inc.  Chief Executive Officer  Dick Costolo  has expanded ad tools
this year ahead of a widely anticipated initial public offering.
While Costolo hasn’t discussed timing and has said that
management isn’t concentrating on a share sale, money from a
public debut could be used to fund an expansion and give early
investors a way to realize financial gains from their holdings.  In June, Twitter struck a deal to provide data to  WPP Plc (WPP) ,
the world’s largest advertising company. The partnership will
help improve WPP’s media and analytics products.  Twitter is also opening an ad platform used by  Adobe
Systems Inc. (ADBE)  and  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  and letting marketers reach
users based on keywords in their postings.  Facebook’s custom-audience service, rolled out at the end
of 2012, lets advertisers send messages to users with whom they
have an existing relationship, matching them up via e-mail
addresses and phone numbers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  