-- Korea Won Slides Most in Two Weeks on Weaker Yen; Bonds Decline
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-07-03T07:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/won-declines-for-second-day-on-weaker-yen-falling-reserves.html
The won declined the most in two
weeks as a weakening yen threatened South Korea’s export outlook
and after data showed the nation’s foreign-exchange reserves
fell.  Government bonds  dropped.  While the won gained 1 percent in the past five days, the
yen dropped 3 percent to 100.79 per dollar, potentially damaging
the earnings of Korean companies like  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  that
compete against Japanese rivals overseas. South Korean reserves
fell to $326.4 billion at the end of June, the lowest since
November, the central bank said in a statement. Overseas funds
sold more local stocks than they bought today, adding to $8
billion in net sales this year through yesterday.  The won weakened 0.9 percent to 1,143.75 per dollar in
 Seoul , the biggest loss since June 20, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
climbed 19 basis points, or 0.19 percentage point, to 10.7
percent, following a six-day decline.  “A yen above 100 to the dollar is a negative factor for
the won, and the fall of the foreign reserves, considered a
buffer in the market, is not good news,” said Park Jung Hyun, a
currency dealer at Hana Bank in Seoul. “Additionally, foreign
investors net sold won-denominated assets today.”  Park added that investors are still concerned about the
 Federal Reserve ’s plans to ease its $85 billion a month of bond
purchases, which drove funds to  emerging markets . Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 that the monetary authority may
begin to taper the program this year if the economy improves.
U.S. employers added the most workers last month since February,
bolstering the case for the Fed to cut the bond purchases, a
Bloomberg survey showed before data due today.  Potential Measures  Nomura Holdings Inc. bet the won will weaken, given South
Korea’s vulnerability to a Fed exit from quantitative easing and
as the threat from  Japan ’s yen depreciation picks up, Craig Chan, a Singapore-based strategist, wrote in a research note
today. Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said in parliament that the
markets are reacting too early to a possible end of the Fed’s
stimulus program.  A Bank of Korea board member called for measures to respond
to changes in developed-nation monetary policies, according to
the minutes of the central bank’s June 13 rate meeting released
yesterday. The monetary authority left its key rate unchanged at
2.5 percent last month after a surprise cut in May.  The yield on the 2.75 percent bonds due June 2016 rose two
basis points to 2.96 percent, prices from Korea Exchange Inc.
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  