-- World Sounds Note of Caution After Egypt Army Ousts Mursi
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-07-04T10:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/world-leaders-express-caution-after-egyptian-army-ousts-mursi.html
World leaders reacted with concern
for Egypt after the army ousted President Mohamed Mursi, calling
for restraint and a peaceful transition while some expressed
disappointment in his leadership.  Egypt’s military removed Mursi from power, suspended the
constitution and announced a presidential election in an effort
to quell the political crisis that has polarized the nation. The
news drew cheering in Cairo’s Tahrir Square, where hundreds of
thousands had massed in recent days to push Mursi from office.  “We are deeply concerned by the decision of the Egyptian
Armed Forces,” President  Barack Obama  said in a statement in
Washington. “I now call on the Egyptian military to move
quickly and responsibly to return full authority back to a
democratically elected civilian government as soon as possible
through an inclusive and transparent process, and to avoid any
arbitrary arrests of President Mursi and his supporters.”  Mursi, 61, called the military’s move a coup and urged
“civilians and military members to uphold the law and the
constitution,” his office said in Twitter postings. “Armed
Forces announcement is rejected by all free men who struggled
for a civil democratic Egypt.”  The U.K. “does not support military intervention as a way
to resolve disputes in a democratic system,” Foreign Secretary
William Hague said in statement. “We call on all parties to
show the leadership and vision needed to restore and renew
 Egypt ’s democratic transition.”  Syrian Reaction  Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd told reporters in
Canberra that “the expectation of the international community”
was to see a “return to full democratic government in Egypt as
rapidly as possible.” German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle
said Mursi’s ouster was “a severe setback for democracy.”  Muslim Brotherhood spokesman Gehad El-Haddad said the
ousting of Mursi by the military was a test for world leaders.
“Are you going to stick with democracy and support it or are
you going to back and legitimize a military coup that just
ousted the first ever democratically elected president of
Egypt,” he said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  An Egyptian prosecutor today ordered the arrest of
Brotherhood Supreme Guide Mohammed Badie and the organization’s
deputy chief Khairat el-Shater in connection with the killings
of eight people during recent clashes outside the group’s Cairo
headquarters, Ahmed Ezz el-Din, a South Cairo prosecution
official, said by phone.  U.A.E. ‘Satisfaction’  In the Middle East, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, who
is battling a two-year civil war that’s killed more than 93,000
people, said Egypt’s crisis marks the fall of “political
Islam,” the Syrian news agency reported, citing remarks to Al-Thawra newspaper.  The United Arab Emirates expressed “satisfaction” with
events in Egypt. Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan said in a statement that the Egyptian army is a “strong
shield and protector,” according to the state-run news agency
WAM.  The U.A.E. has cracked down on Islamist groups, which the
government says have been emboldened by popular uprisings in
Egypt, Libya and Tunisia.  World Bank President Jim Yong Kim said the lender and the
International Monetary Fund have been standing by to provide
financial support to Egypt.  “We’ve been waiting for reforms that still had to happen
in order for the IMF first and then us to follow and make the
investments, and it hasn’t happened,” Kim told reporters in
 Lima ,  Peru .  Democratic Impediment  Some U.S. lawmakers said Mursi had become an impediment to
democracy.  “The Egyptian military has long been a key partner of the
United States and a stabilizing force in the region, and is
perhaps the only trusted national institution in Egypt today,”
House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, the second-ranking Republican
in the House, said in a statement.  Mursi was “an obstacle to the constitutional democracy
most Egyptians wanted,” House Foreign Affairs Committee
Chairman Ed Royce said in a statement, adding he was “hopeful”
the power change would result in a better future for Egypt while
warning the country “is in for very difficult days.”  “It is unfortunate that Mursi did not heed popular demands
for early elections after a year of his incompetent leadership
and attempting a power grab for the Muslim Brotherhood,” said
Royce, a California Republican.  Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat and chairman of
the Senate Appropriations Committee’s foreign operations panel,
said the committee “will review future aid to the Egyptian
government as we wait for a clearer picture.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  