-- World Copper Reserves Seen Lasting 100 Years and Far From Peak
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-03T16:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/world-copper-reserves-seen-lasting-100-years-and-far-from-peak.html
World copper reserves can satisfy
rising global demand for at least a century and are far from
peaking, according to a study by  Australia ’s  Monash University .  Researchers compiled a database based on mineral-resource
estimates from mining companies, the university wrote in an
online  statement . “Vast volumes” of available copper, used in
pipes and wiring, mean social and environmental concerns might
be the most important restrictions on future output, it said.  “Contrary to predictions estimating that supplies of this
important metal would run out in around 30 years, the research
has found there are plenty of resources within the reach of
current technologies,” Melbourne-based Monash wrote.  Workers’ rights, impacts on cultural lands and potential
environmental damage are already affecting the viability of
copper production and will have an increasing influence, Monash
cited Gavin Mudd, one of the study’s researchers, as saying.  Non-economic issues hampered some mining, according to the
university. It pointed to the Pebble copper and gold project in
 Alaska , which lacks necessary approvals after more than a decade
due to environmental and cultural concerns, according to Monash.
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and Vancouver-based Northern Dynasty Minerals
Ltd. are Pebble’s developers.  “With existing copper resources, we’re not just going to
be dealing with the production of a few million tons of tailings
from mining a century ago,” Mudd was cited as saying. “We are
now dealing with a few billion tons or tens of billions of tons
of mine waste produced during modern mining.”  The researchers plan to create databases for other metals,
such as nickel, uranium and cobalt, Monash said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  