-- WTI Surgest to 14-Month High Amid Egyptian Unrest
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-07-03T19:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/wti-crude-rises-above-100-on-egypt-unrest.html
West Texas Intermediate crude surged
above $100 a barrel after the year’s largest decline in U.S.
stockpiles and amid concern that unrest in  Egypt  will disrupt
Middle Eastern shipments.  Futures reached a 14-month high as the Energy Information
Administration said  supplies  fell 10.3 million barrels to 383.8
million. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expected a drop of 2.25
million. Egypt’s military told Mohamed Mursi at 7 p.m. local
time that he’s no longer president, the state-run Ahram Gate
newspaper said, boosting anxiety that flows through the  Suez
Canal  or Suez-Med pipeline will be cut.  “We have two main factors pushing us higher today,” said
Adam Wise, who helps manage a $6 billion oil and gas bond
portfolio as a managing director at Manulife Asset Management in
 Boston . “We’re looking at a much larger than expected supply
decline here, while the turmoil in Egypt raises concern about
supplies from the Middle East.”  WTI crude for August delivery gained $1.64, or 1.6 percent,
to $101.24 on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since May 3, 2012. The volume of all futures traded
was 93 percent higher than the 100-day average at 2:43 p.m.  There will be no floor trading in the Nymex tomorrow
because of the U.S. Independence Day holiday. Any electronic
trades will be booked for July 5.  Freight Train  “I don’t see the possible closure of the Suez Canal having
any direct impact on a crude that’s delivered in  Oklahoma , but
you can’t argue with the market,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .
“The bulls are really squeezing this thing. Nobody wants to
step in front of a freight train before what’s effectively a
four-day weekend.”  Brent oil for August settlement increased $1.76, or 1.7
percent, to end the session at $105.76 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  The European benchmark traded at a $4.52 premium to WTI
after falling to as little as $3.10. The spread was $4.40
yesterday, the narrowest based on closing prices since Jan. 4,
2011. It was more than $23 in February. The opening of a new
unit at the  BP Plc (BP/)  refinery in Whiting,  Indiana , and the
completion of additional pipeline and rail capability is
providing outlets for surging supplies in the central U.S. and
increased WTI relative to other grades.  Era Ending  “The era of the weak midcontinent crude is rapidly coming
to an end,” said  Sarah Emerson , managing director of Energy
Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “Whiting is
a big deal and there’s increasing pipeline and refinery
capacity, which will reduce inventories.”  U.S. crude production rose 6,000 barrels a day to 7.27
million last week, according to the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical unit. Output reached 7.37 million in the week ended
May 3, the most since February 1992. Production has surged as
the combination of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing,
or fracking, has unlocked supplies trapped in shale formations
in the central part of the country.  Gasoline stockpiles declined 1.72 million barrels to 223.7
million. Supplies were projected to advance 700,000 barrels,
according to the median of 11 responses in the Bloomberg survey.
Inventories of  distillate fuel , a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, dropped 2.42 million barrels to 120.8 million.  Bullish Report  “This report was bullish across the board,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “There was a draw in crude, which was
expected, and both product categories, which wasn’t. The
magnitude of the crude decline was unexpected.”  Gasoline demand  rose 4.5 percent to 9.29 million barrels a
day last week, the highest level since August, according to the
EIA. Total  petroleum consumption  surged 7.5 percent to 20.4
million, the most since December 2010.  Refineries operated  at 92.2 percent of capacity, up 2
percentage points from the prior week and the highest level this
year. Utilization rates reached their annual peak in June or
July during eight of the past 10 years.  BP is ramping up rates on its new 250,000-barrel-a-day
crude unit at Whiting, the largest refinery in the Midwest.
Refinery  inputs in PADD 2 , which includes the Midwest, climbed
3.2 percent to 3.42 million barrels a day, the most in more than
six months.  Disappearing Discount  “Fears of what is happening on the streets of Egypt are
occurring in conjunction with the BP Whiting crude unit
startup,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates
LLC in Houston. “WTI inventories are now going to be rapidly
drawn down. WTI is reconnected to the world oil market and we’ve
seen its deep discount to Brent disappear.”  Mursi made a call for an interim coalition government just
before the expiration of a military deadline that may drive him
from office. The Islamist leader’s comments signaled rejection
of protesters’ calls to step down after he vowed in a late-night
television address yesterday to defend “legitimacy” with his
life.  The armed forces pledged on July 1 to impose a plan if
Mursi didn’t end the crisis within 48 hours. Clashes left at
least 18 dead and 619 wounded over the past 24 hours, said Ahmed
El-Ansari, deputy head of the national ambulance service.  Suez Canal  Egypt controls the Suez Canal and the Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline through which a combined 2.24 million barrels a day of
oil was shipped from the  Red Sea  to Europe and  North America  in
2011, according to the EIA. The  Middle East  accounted for 35
percent of global oil output in the first quarter of this year,
according to the  International Energy Agency ’s monthly oil
market report published on June 12.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
August was 24 percent, up from 20.5 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 988,610
contracts as of 2:49 p.m. It totaled 1.05 million contracts
yesterday, the highest since Feb. 7, 2012. Open interest was
1.77 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  