-- WTI Rises Above $100 on Drop in U.S. Stockpiles, Egypt Unrest
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v
-- 2013-07-03T12:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-03/wti-crude-climbs-above-100-on-egypt-unrest-u-s-stockpiles.html
Crude oil advanced, with West Texas
Intermediate surpassing $100 a barrel for the first time in nine
months, on shrinking U.S. stockpiles and concern that political
turmoil in  Egypt  may disrupt Middle Eastern supply.  Futures rose as much 2.6 percent in  New York  after climbing
to the highest settlement price in 14 months.  Crude inventories 
fell by 9.4 million barrels last week, the  American Petroleum
Institute  said yesterday. A government report today may show a
drop of 2.25 million, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
Egypt’s President Mohamed Mursi rejected an ultimatum by the
armed forces to solve the country’s political impasse, fanning
concern that unrest may interrupt oil shipments through the  Suez
Canal  or Suez-Med pipeline.  “People are expecting to see a large draw-down in
inventories in Cushing, and that is supporting the WTI market
much more than the Brent market,” Torbjoern Kjus, a senior oil
analyst at  DNB ASA (DNB)  in Oslo, said by phone, referring to the
Oklahoma town serving as a U.S. storage hub. “The Brent market
is supported by geopolitical risks due to tensions in Egypt.”  WTI for August delivery increased as much as $2.58 to
$102.18 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $101.58 at 1:33 p.m. London time.
The volume of all futures traded was more than three times the
100-day average. The contract gained $1.61 to $99.60 yesterday,
the highest close since May 2012.  Brent-WTI  Brent for August settlement rose as much as $1.75, or 1.7
percent, to $105.75 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. The European benchmark grade was at a premium
of $4.06 to WTI. The spread was $4.40 yesterday, the narrowest
based on closing prices since Jan. 4, 2011. It was more than $23
in February.  UBS AG sees the spread widening again to $12 a barrel in
the third quarter this year and narrowing later. Brent is set to
rebound to $110 a barrel in the third quarter “on stronger
short-term fundamentals and rising geopolitical risk,” Julius Walker, the bank’s global energy markets strategist, said in an
e-mailed report today.  Natalie Rampono, a Melbourne-based commodity research
analyst at Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said
WTI may climb to a premium of 50 cents a barrel to Brent “in
the short term,” in a separate report today.  Egypt Turmoil  Mursi called on the Egyptian military to withdraw its
ultimatum, signaling he will stay on in the face of mass
protests seeking his ouster. The armed forces pledged on July 1
to impose its own plan if he didn’t end the crisis within 48
hours.  Egypt controls the Suez Canal and the Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, through which a combined 2.24 million barrels a day of
oil was shipped from the  Red Sea  to Europe and  North America  in
2011, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
The  Middle East  accounted for 35 percent of global oil output in
the first quarter of this year, according to the  International
Energy Agency ’s monthly oil market report published on June 12.  “Given that Mursi is rejecting the army’s demand to step
down, this is going to, in my opinion, throw the country into a
crisis with no clear resolution,” said  Andy Lipow , the
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC, a consultant in Houston.
“The market reaction will be bullish due to the uncertainty of
the event and of what may ultimately happen.”  WTI last rallied above $100 a barrel on Sept. 14 in
intraday trading after the  Federal Reserve  announced it would
buy mortgage-backed securities to encourage economic growth.
Front-month futures last settled above $100 on May 3, 2012.  Fuel Supplies  U.S. gasoline stockpiles declined by 183,000 barrels in the
week ended June 28, the API report shows. The report by the EIA
will show supplies increased by 700,000 barrels, according to
the  median estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
so-called U.S. summer driving season, when demand for motor fuel
peaks, runs from late May to early September.  Distillate inventories, including heating oil and diesel,
decreased by 2.3 million barrels, the industry-funded API said.
They are forecast to climb by 1 million in the EIA survey.  The API in  Washington  collects supply information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm. Its Weekly
Petroleum Status Report is scheduled for release today at 10:30
a.m. U.S. Eastern time.  Nigeria’s National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas
Workers suspended a strike called on July 1 over what it said
were unfair labor practices at units of Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
Chevron Corp. and Eni SpA, the union’s president, Achese Igwe,
said today in a televised news conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  