-- 
Abraaj Eyes Logistics, Oil After $540 Million Acquisition

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-04-11T10:30:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/abraaj-eyes-logistics-oil-after-540-million-acquisition-1-.html
Abraaj Capital, a Dubai-based
private equity firm managing $6.2 billion, said it may invest in
logistics and oil service industries after concluding a $540
million purchase of a stake in a credit card processor.  Abraaj is also ready to pull out of a number of companies
“and we see that we can achieve a good return from exiting,”
Managing Director Mustafa Abdel Wadood told reporters today at a
news conference in Dubai.  The company announced the acquisition of a 49 percent stake
of Network International LLC from Emirates NBD PJSC, the  United
Arab Emirates ’ largest bank by assets. The lender said on
March 31 that the stake was worth 1.98 billion dirhams ($540
million).  “We have a company that we are looking into in the
logistics sector and we have a company in oil services,” he
said. “I am talking about opportunities that are, relatively
speaking, in advanced stages.” He declined to elaborate.  Since its inception in 2002, Abraaj has made more than 30
investments in 11 countries and completed more than 20 exits.
The firm expects to spend about $2 billion in the next two
years, Chief Executive Officer Arif Naqvi said on Jan. 23 at a
conference in  Riyadh ,  Saudi Arabia .  Investors such as Abraaj and Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  have said that a wave of popular uprisings that has
swept the Middle East this year will help create investment
opportunities and strong economic growth prospects on the long
term. The revolts have toppled the presidents of Egypt and
 Tunisia  and spread to other countries including Bahrain, Libya,
Syria, Oman and Yemen.  “The second half of 2011 will bring investment
opportunities for the industry because there will be a clearer
visibility,” Abdel Wadood said. The uprisings “on the long run
may create a better base for economic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  