-- 
Absa, Barclays Start Selling Insurance in Botswana Amid African Expansion

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-04-11T10:50:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/absa-barclays-start-selling-insurance-in-botswana-amid-african-expansion.html
Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
which controls the Johannesburg-based lender, started selling
insurance in Botswana as they plan to cooperate more closely to
expand in other African countries.  “We want the same insurance licences in Mozambique and
Zambia,” Louis von Zeuner, Absa’s deputy chief executive
officer, said in an interview on April 8. In the past, Absa and
Barclays “never really put our heads down and said ‘what are
the synergies in Africa,’” he said.  Barclays of the U.K. bought 54 percent of Absa in 2005,
aiming to become the preeminent banking group in Africa. In the
following five years, Absa’s market share on the continent
shrank and, with the exception of  Barclays Capital  and Absa
Capital, the two lenders didn’t meld operations. Led by new
CEOs, with  Maria Ramos  heading Absa and  Bob Diamond  running
Barclays, the banks have said they want to boost cooperation to
benefit from economic expansion in African countries that
outstrips more developed regions.  Management changes at the banks have “resulted in a much
better working relationship,” said Neville Chester, who helps
oversee about $33.7 billion at  Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. (CML)  in
Cape Town. “The Africa growth avenue is an important driver of
long-term growth for any South African bank.”  ‘Wants More Revenue’  With representative offices in Nigeria and Namibia, an
initial public offering planned for a Tanzanian affiliate and 33
multinational clients now working with Absa because of its
relationship with Barclays, Von Zeuner said the bank now has a
“pretty good footprint” in the Southern African Development
Community.  The lender is seeking to expand without the cost of
building infrastructure, he said, because it “wants more
revenue and we don’t care how we get it.”  Absa, South Africa’s largest retail lender, is the second-
worst-performing bank stock this year after  Africa ’s biggest
bank, Standard Bank Group Ltd. Absa has dropped 2.3 percent,
compared with the six-member FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index’s
advance of 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  