-- 
Adobe Courts Cash-Strapped Designers With Cheaper Tools

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-04-11T20:25:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/adobe-courts-cash-strapped-creatives-with-cheaper-design-tools.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , seeking to
boost sales to thrifty graphics and Web designers, will
introduce an update to its flagship Creative Suite software in
May that lets users pay for the product as they go.  Creative Suite 5.5 will be a collection of Adobe’s
Photoshop, Dreamweaver, InDesign and other software that lets
users pay for the products monthly or yearly at prices much
lower than for unlimited use of the full suite. The cheaper
rental cost may keep people buying even if they’re unwilling to
purchase a comprehensive package, company executives said.  Creative Suite brings in more than half of the revenue for
Adobe, the largest maker of graphic-design software. The
programs can prove expensive for less regular users, said Dave
Burkett, a vice president in Adobe’s Creative Suite group.  “It creates a barrier for many of our customers,” Burkett
said last week in a presentation to reporters.  Adobe’s Creative Suite products include Photoshop, the
software for photo editing; Dreamweaver, the tool for website
design, and InDesign, the software for publishing.  Many Adobe consumers who work as freelance designers and
move among jobs can’t afford the full Creative Suite, Adobe
Chief Financial Officer Mark Garrett said last month in an
interview.  Subscription Prices  Customers will be able to download subscription-priced
versions of Photoshop for $49 a month or $420 a year, and
Dreamweaver for $29 a month or $228 a year, according to a price
list provided by Adobe. Buyers can rent the full Creative Suite
Design Premium edition for $139 a month or $1,140 a year.  By contrast, an unlimited-use license for Design Premium
5.5 will sell for $1,899, Adobe said today in a statement.  Version 5 of Photoshop for Windows users who already own
older versions of the product sold for $194 on Amazon.com Inc.’s
website on April 8.  The subscription pricing could attract some of the millions
of Adobe customers still using older versions of its software
and entice them to buy full versions of Creative Suite in the
future, said  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS in San Francisco.  “Now they can take it for a couple of months, and it gets
their appetite whet to buy the whole thing,” said Thill, who
has a “buy” rating on Adobe shares.  Slowing Growth  San Jose , California-based Adobe is dealing with slowing
sales growth and a reduced profit forecast for its second
quarter, which ends in May. Sales may grow 8 percent to $4.1
billion this year, compared with 29 percent growth last year,
according to the average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. On March 22, Adobe pared its second-quarter sales
forecast by $50 million because of disruption from the
earthquake and tsunami in Japan, which is the company’s second-
largest market after the U.S.  Creative Suite provides a revenue surge for Adobe each time
a new version comes out. Creative Suite 5 debuted last April and
version 6 is due next year, Chief Executive Officer Shantanu Narayen told analysts last month.  To bridge the gap, Adobe now plans to release interim
versions of the software between major releases. The updates
will ensure users have access to Adobe’s latest technologies,
said Burkett. Version 5.5 will include new tools in Dreamweaver
for creating websites using the HTML5 programming language, new
ways of selecting colors in Photoshop and software for
stabilizing shaky video footage in the Premier Pro editing
program. Creative Suite 5.5 is due to arrive in May, Burkett
said in an interview.  Interim Versions  Adobe’s move to releasing interim versions of its flagship
product could help the company smooth out revenue between major
releases, said Thill.  “It removes the big peaks and troughs in the product
cycle,” he said. The risk for Adobe is whether customers will
wait for more features in version 6 next year instead of buying
5.5. “Everyone wonders whether release 6 will be the Big
Kahuna,” he said.  Adobe climbed 23 cents to $34.38 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have climbed 12 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  