-- 
Magnitude 6.6 Quake Rocks Japan’s Tohoku Region, Disrupts Tokyo Transport

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-04-11T10:45:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/magnitude-7-1-quake-strikes-japan-s-tohoku-region-tsunami-warning-issued.html
A magnitude-6.6 earthquake hit
 Japan  about 35 miles from  Tokyo Electric  Power Co.’s stricken
nuclear power plant, shaking buildings in the capital city
and causing fires to break out in the northeast of the
country.  The quake struck at 5:16 p.m. local time 38 kilometers
(24 miles) west of Iwaki and 163 kilometers from Tokyo at a
depth of 10 kilometers, according to the  U.S. Geological
Survey . USGS revised the magnitude down from 7.1, while the
Japan Meteorological Agency lowered its rating to 7.0 from
7.1.  The aftershock struck exactly one month after a
magnitude-9 temblor and tsunami left 27,493 dead or missing
and knocked out power at Tokyo Electric’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant, causing radiation to leak. National
broadcaster NHK showed  footage  of fishing boats heading out
to sea to avoid a tsunami, and reported one person died in
Ibaraki from the latest quake.  A warning for a tsunami as high as 2 meters (6.6 feet)
to hit parts of the eastern coast of Honshu was issued by the
 Japan Meteorological Agency , and later lifted.  The temblor registered as high as minus-6, the third-
highest level on the Japanese scale of seismic intensity, in
parts of Fukushima and Ibaraki prefectures, the agency said.  Fires in Iwaki  Several fires broke out in Iwaki, an official at the
city’s fire department said today by phone. There was also a
fire in Asakawa, west of Iwaki, while two cars were crushed
in a landslide, according to the Fire and Disaster Management
Agency’s  website . One injury was reported, the agency said.  Fire trucks were called to Daiichi Sankyo Co.’s Onahama
factory in Iwaki after lightning struck a liquefied natural
gas tank, Yasunori Sasaki, a Tokyo-based spokesman said by
phone today. The fire was put out at 6:40 p.m., Sasaki said.  The aftershock briefly knocked out external power at the
Fukushima plant, disrupting the injection of cooling water
into reactor Nos. 1, 2 and 3 at the station. Power has been
restored, Hidehiko Nishiyama, deputy director-general of
Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, said in a
televised briefing.  Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  postponed a press
conference scheduled for 5:50 p.m. to mark the one-month
anniversary of the earthquake and tsunami, the Cabinet press
club said.  Calls Restricted  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) , Japan’s largest mobile phone company,
is restricting up to 80 percent of voice calls following the
quake. Calls are being restricted in 14 prefectures,
including Tokyo, spokeswoman Naoko Minobe said by phone today.  East Japan Railway Co. (9020)  restarted four of five bullet-
train lines after temporarily halting services, spokesman
Kentaro Matsumura said by phone today. The company is
checking the Yamagata bullet train for damage, he said.  Tohoku Electric Power Co. said power is on and cooling
systems are running at its Onagawa and Higashidori nuclear
plants in northern Japan. About 220,000 homes, mostly in
Iwaki city, are without power, spokesman Sota Notsu said by
phone. The company’s thermal-power plants weren’t affected by
the quake, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Biggs in  Tokyo  at 
 Sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net . 