-- 
Air France Crash Salvage to Begin Again April 21, France Says

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-04-11T16:29:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/air-france-crash-salvage-to-begin-again-april-21-france-says.html
A search boat that aims to retrieve
flight recorders from the Air  France  jet that crashed in the
Atlantic in 2009 will leave  Senegal  on April 21 to head for the
site of wreckage found earlier this month, France said.  The vessel will be stationed in the area until mid-June as
investigators hope to recover recorders that may hold clues to
the cause of the crash, which killed 228 people. Attempts also
will be made to recover bodies located with the wreckage, French
Transport Minister Thierry Mariani said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Debris from the June 2009 crash was found at the bottom of
the Atlantic Ocean in early April on the fourth search attempt.
The Airbus A330-200 went down on June 1, 2009, after it left  Rio
de Janeiro  headed for Paris Charles de Gaulle airport.  Mariani and Jean-Paul Troadec, director of France’s
aircraft accident investigator, BEA, met with families of the
victims to inform them that none would be invited aboard the
search vessel, the minister said in the statement. The measure
is meant to avoid prejudicing a criminal investigation, Mariani
said. France is one of the few countries where fatal accidents
automatically trigger a criminal probe.  Mariani didn’t say how many days it would take the boat to
get from Cap Vert, on the edge of Senegal, to the search site.  “Priority will be given to the technical investigation,
and, if they’re found, to retrieval of the flight recorders,”
the minister said.  “Attempts will be made to bring up the bodies of victims
in order to respond to the needs of the judicial
investigation,” he said. “If it turns out to be possible to
bring them up, they’ll be identified in France and restored to
families as quickly as possible.”  The debris from  Flight 447  was located about 3,900 meters
(12,800 feet) below the surface by the Alucia search vessel. A
different vessel will be sent to retrieve wreckage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  