-- 
Alcoa Profit May Triple as Demand Outweighs Inventories

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-04-11T13:53:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/alcoa-net-may-triple-as-demand-outweighs-monstrous-stockpiles.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, may report first-quarter profit almost
tripled on higher metal prices as increased demand outweighed
the effects of near-record global inventories.  Alcoa will post earnings excluding one-time items of 27
cents a share, compared with 10 cents a year earlier, according
to the average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
That would be the New York-based company’s biggest profit since
the third quarter of 2008, when commodities tumbled amid the
global financial crisis.  Aluminum has advanced 11 percent in the past year on
improved demand for the metal, which is used in construction,
autos and beverage cans. Rising consumption will more than
offset the effects of slower Chinese economic growth and
stockpiles in London Metal Exchange-monitored warehouses, said
Bill Selesky, a New York-based analyst at Argus Research Co.  “Demand in emerging-market economies is the driver here,
supplemented by an improvement in growth in the U.S.,” Selesky,
who rates Alcoa shares a “buy,” said in an interview. “That
will take care of any inventory overhang problem in 2011.”  Alcoa, traditionally the first company in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to publish quarterly earnings, is due to
report after the market closes today. Alcoa rose 23 cents, or
1.3 percent, to $18.15 at 9:50 a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares advanced 16 percent this year
before today.  Mike Belwood, an Alcoa spokesman, declined to comment
before the earnings were released.  Chinese Demand  Aluminum on the LME averaged $2,531 a metric ton in the
first quarter, the most since the third quarter of 2008 and 15
percent more than a year earlier. The metal fell 0.9 percent to
$2,689 at 2:51 p.m. London time.  China , the largest aluminum user, accounted for 38 percent
of global demand in January, Bloomberg data show. The country
raised benchmark  interest rates  by 1 percentage point since
October as part of efforts to tackle inflation.  Still, Chinese aluminum demand will rise 10 percent to 15
percent this year, Chuck Bradford, president of Bradford
Research, said in a telephone interview from New York.  “China is trying to slow its economy to control inflation,
but their economy is still going to grow north of 9 percent this
year,” he said.  Aluminum in Surplus  Global aluminum output of 40.8 million tons last year
exceeded consumption by about 1 million tons, according to
Bloomberg data. LME-monitored warehouses held 4.58 million tons
of inventories as of today, compared with an average of about
1.43 million in the past 10 years. There were 4.64 million tons
on Jan. 21, 2010, the highest since at least 1978.  Bradford said he doesn’t believe the “monstrous”
stockpiles will affect aluminum’s price because most are held as
collateral for financial contracts and aren’t freely available.  Even if Alcoa matches analysts’ estimates, profit still
will be less than half the 62 cents a share earned on average in
the six quarters through June 2008.  Costs to deal with scheduled outages and smelter restarts
will offset any productivity improvements, Fraser Phillips, a
Toronto-based analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said in an April 1
note. Phillips estimated first-quarter earnings of 25 cents a
share and rates the stock “underperform.”  Global foreign exchange and other expenses may curb
earnings, Bradford said.  Alcoa operates in 31 countries, selling aluminum in U.S.
dollars and paying costs in local currencies. In  Australia ,
where the company generated 14 percent of its revenue last year,
second to the U.S., the currency appreciated about 13 percent
against the U.S. dollar in the past 12 months. The Canadian
dollar advanced 4.8 percent.  “The Aussie dollar and the loonie have been strong,”
Bradford said. “That hurts, and energy costs are up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 