-- 
Alcoa Shares Drop After Aluminum Producer's Quarterly Sales Miss Estimates

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-04-12T20:42:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/alcoa-shares-drop-after-aluminum-producer-s-quarterly-sales-miss-estimates.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, fell in New York trading after it reported
first-quarter sales that missed analysts’ estimates and said
raw-material costs climbed.  Alcoa declined as much as 7 percent, the biggest drop in
eight months. The company’s sales increased 22 percent from a
year earlier to $5.96 billion, Alcoa said yesterday in a
statement. That trailed the $6.06 billion average estimate of
eight analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Alcoa, traditionally the first company in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to report quarterly results, said its
earnings were curbed by a weaker  U.S. dollar , and higher energy
and raw-material costs. Prices for carbon products and caustic
soda, used in the processing of bauxite, are increasing
following the earthquake in  Japan  and political turmoil in North
Africa, Chief Financial Officer Chuck McLane said on a
conference call to discuss the earnings.  “Maybe some people were a bit worried about input costs
trending higher and Alcoa not being able to pass along the price
increases quickly enough,” Bill Selesky, a New York-based
analyst at Argus Research Co., said in a telephone interview
today. “It’s had a nice run so I’m sure there are some short-
term investors who are taking profits.”  Alcoa fell $1.07, or 6 percent, to $16.70 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
advanced 8.5 percent this year.  ‘Increasing Tightness’  “We are seeing increasing tightness in the Asian caustic
market,” McLane said on the call yesterday. “Due to this
disruption as well as the continuing unrest in the Middle East,
we expect to see higher input costs for  fuel oil .”  Crude-oil prices on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
averaged 20 percent more in the first quarter than a year
earlier.  First-quarter net income of $308 million, or 27 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $201 million, or 20 cents, a year
earlier, the New York-based company said in the statement.
Profit excluding restructuring costs and other one-time items
was 28 cents a share, topping the 27-cent average estimate of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “They beat on the bottom line with a lower top-line
number, which suggests their cost control was better than
expected,”  John Stephenson , a portfolio manager at First Asset
Investment Management Inc. in Toronto, said yesterday in an e-
mailed response to questions. “Primary metal and sheet product
prices have risen since March, so second-quarter earnings should
be even better.”  Aluminum Gains  Aluminum prices have advanced 10 percent in the past year
in  London  because of improving demand for the metal, which is
used in construction, autos and beverage cans. Alcoa said its
average realized price for aluminum rose 15 percent from a year
earlier to $2,682 a metric ton.  Alcoa operates in 31 countries, selling aluminum in U.S.
dollars and paying costs in local currencies. The Canadian
dollar has advanced 4.8 percent against its U.S. counterpart in
the past 12 months while the Brazilian real gained 11 percent.
In  Australia , where the company generated 14 percent of its
revenue last year, second to the U.S., the currency appreciated
12 percent.  “They took a significant hit in the strong loonie, the
Aussie dollar and the real,” Chuck Bradford, president of
Bradford Research, said in a telephone interview from  New York 
yesterday.  The company reiterated its forecast that global aluminum
demand will grow 12 percent this year.  “Our outlook for the rest of 2011 and beyond remains very
positive,” Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 