-- 
Amazon.com to Sell Kindle Digital Reader With Ads for $114

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-04-12T20:17:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/amazon-com-to-sell-version-of-kindle-e-book-reader-for-114-featuring-ads.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s
largest online retailer, unveiled a $114 version of its Kindle
electronic-book reader that requires customers to view ads in
exchange for getting the lower price.  The new device, called Kindle With Special Offers, costs
$25 less than the current lowest-priced model, the Seattle-based
company said in a statement. It will be available May 3 at Best
Buy Co. and  Target Corp. (TGT)  stores, in addition to Amazon’s site.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is counting on the
 Kindle , unveiled in 2007 for $399, to capitalize on digital-book
demand. With the new approach, he gains a bigger price advantage
over rivals and opens an additional source of ad revenue. The
device has become Amazon’s most popular product and will bring
in $5.42 billion in revenue this year, according to Caris & Co.
A version without ads will continue to sell for $139.  “This is about making sure anyone who wants a Kindle can
afford one,” Jay Marine, director of Kindle products, said in
an interview. “Every time we’ve been able to make Kindle more
affordable, we’ve seen huge growth in demand. We expect the same
to happen here.”  General Motors Co.’s Buick,  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s Olay
skin products and Visa Inc. will be among the first advertisers
on the Kindle. Amazon also will put its own promotions on the
device, offering readers a $10 gift card for $20 worth of
merchandise on its site or 50 percent off a Roku streaming-video
player.  Screen-Saver Ads  Over time, Amazon will phase out its own advertisements on
the Kindle and replace them with promotions from other
companies, Marine said. The company worked with advertisers to
ensure the ads don’t get in the way of reading, he said. Ads
will appear as a screen saver when the Kindle is idle. They will
also be seen as a banner on the bottom of the screen on a user’s
home page, Marine said.  In addition to offering the $139 Kindle, which delivers e-
books through a Wi-Fi Internet connection, Amazon also sells a
Kindle for $189 that includes Wi-Fi and 3G wireless-network
capability. A larger Kindle costs $379.  Barnes & Noble Inc.’s Nook , meanwhile, starts at $149 for a
Wi-Fi-only version. Adding 3G brings the price to $199.  Amazon declined $3.56, or 1.9 percent, to $180.48 at 4 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares are little
changed in value this year.  U.S. sales of e-books may almost triple to $2.8 billion by
2015, according to  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  