-- 
Apax May Use $1.41 Billion of Debt for Purchase

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-04-11T22:34:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/apax-may-use-1-41-billion-of-debt-for-purchase-correct-.html
Apax Partners LLP, the London-based
private-equity firm that agreed to buy U.S. business-software
makers  Epicor Software Corp. (EPIC)  and Activant Solutions Inc., plans
to use $1.41 billion of loans to help pay for the purchases.  Bank of America Corp. and Royal Bank of Canada agreed to
provide an $870 million term loan due in seven years and a $75
million revolving  credit line  expiring in five years,  Irvine ,
California-based Epicor said today in a regulatory filing. The
financing also includes a $465 million bridge loan.  Apax, which is combining the companies in deals valued at
about $2 billion, will provide $647 million of equity financing
for the transaction, according to a commitment letter attached
to the filing.  Eagle Parent Inc., a Delaware-incorporated company created
by Apax for the merger, will issue the  term loan  at 99 cents on
the dollar, the banks said in a commitment letter also attached
to the filing. So-called original-issue discounts reduce
proceeds for the borrower and boost the yield for investors.  The term loan will be covenant-lite, meaning it won’t have
any financial maintenance requirements, the letter shows. Eagle
Parent will repay 1 percent of the debt each year in quarterly
installments.  The term loan will have an interest rate 3.75 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate with a 1.25
percent floor on the lending benchmark, according to the letter.
Eagle Parent’s revolver will have a margin of 3.25 percentage
points to 3.75 percentage points more than Libor, based on the
company’s leverage ratio, according to the letter.  Bridge Loan  Leverage is the measure of debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. In a revolving
credit facility, money can be borrowed again once it’s repaid;
in a term loan, it can’t.  Eagle Parent’s one-year bridge loan will have an initial
interest rate of 7.25 percentage points more than Libor, which
will be subject to a 1.25 percent floor, the commitment letter
shows. The margin will increase by 0.5 percentage point every
three months and has an 11 percent cap.  Epicor investors will get $12.50 a share in cash, valuing
the company at $976 million, according to an April 4 statement.
That’s 11 percent more than Epicor’s closing price on the  Nasdaq 
on April 1. The companies didn’t give an exact price for closely
held Activant, which is based in Livermore,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  