-- 
Emergency Flights in Record Demand as Earthquakes, Unrest Spur Evacuation

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-04-12T14:30:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/arab-unrest-quakes-spur-record-run-for-relief-flight-operators.html
Hours after last month’s Japanese
earthquake, phones began ringing at the U.K. base of the world’s
largest aircraft broker. Less than a day later and Chapman-
Freeborn had dispatched a  Boeing Co. (BA)  767 from  Frankfurt  to  Tokyo 
carrying 48 rescue workers, their dogs and 12 tons of equipment.  It was the same after the temblor in  New Zealand  and
outbreaks of unrest in  Tunisia ,  Egypt , Libya and  Ivory Coast ,
adding up to the busiest few months that the $3 billion
aircraft-charter brokerage industry has ever experienced.  “You can’t shy away from it,” Chapman-Freeborn Managing
Director Alex Berry said in a phone interview from the company’s
headquarters in Crawley,  England . “When there are a number of
disasters in any one year we do an awful lot more business.”  Natural calamities and political uprisings have stoked
demand for aircraft from 13-seat Gulfstream G-IV private jets to
Antonov’s 285-ton  An-225 , the world’s largest transport plane.
Chapman-Freeborn has arranged 125 evacuation flights in two
months, ferrying 20,000 passengers to safety and spurring annual
sales as much as 60 percent to $800 million, Berry estimates.  Rival plane brokers  Air Partner Plc (AIP)  and Air Charter Service
Group Plc say they’ve also been tapping a surge in demand. Air
Partner rose as much as 3.4 percent to 530 pence, the biggest
jump since Feb. 25, and was trading at that price as of 2:24
p.m. in London, taking the stock’s gain this year to 19 percent.  For crisis-torn regions the companies provide a “service
of last resort” when scheduled operators pull out, Air Partner
Chief Executive Officer Mark Briffa said in an interview.  Libya Escape  In warzones such as Libya that withdrawal may be especially
rapid because of perceived threats to aircraft and employees,
with British Airways, Gulf carrier Emirates and  Germany ’s
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  all suspending Tripoli flights
indefinitely within 48 hours of each other in February.  “The speed at which the scheduled operators pulled out of
Libya really did catch people by surprise,” Briffa said.
“Getting people out afterwards was a real challenge.”  After  Japan ’s magnitude-9 quake and subsequent tsunami, at
least two airlines, Lufthansa and Italy’s Alitalia SpA, scrapped
Tokyo flights because of concern that radiation leaks from the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant threatened the safety of crews.  “I can’t recall so many different situations around the
world going off at the same time,” said Matt Purton, director
of commercial jet sales at Surbiton, England-based Air Charter
Service. “We did about a year’s worth of business in two weeks.”  Air Charter last month rented a fleet of four Boeing 747s
to provide shuttle flights from Tripoli to  Malta  to evacuate
oil, gas and construction workers as the Libyan crisis deepened.  Jumbo Expense  Chartering a jumbo costs $250,000 for short-haul trips and
up to $1 million for inter-continental flights, according to the
company, which has this month been airlifting refugees from
Abidjan in Ivory Coast for United Nation refugee agency UNHCR.  The brokers operate by sourcing aircraft and crews from
specialist carriers such as Egypt’s  Air Memphis  and London
Gatwick airport-based  Astraeus Airlines , as well as network
airlines that have spare planes during slower periods.  Chapman-Freeborn, which also charters passenger planes for
sports teams, music tours and diplomatic missions and freighters
for shifting military equipment, oilrigs and explosives, has
rented aircraft from British Airways in the past, while Air
Charter Service last month hired a  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) 
jet to evacuate people to  Singapore  from Japan.  Permits, Forklifts  The brokers are also responsible for organizing insurance
cover and liaising with agents on the ground to arrange the
permits necessary for an aircraft to take off and land.  “Getting airplanes in is not that easy,” said Air Partner’s
Briffa. “When communications have been down for two days and
you need to get permission, that’s a bloody challenge.”  Where ground infrastructure is absent or damaged, brokers
may first need to help arrange the upgrade of an airport before
other flights can function.  Chapman-Freeborn  organized more than
70 percent of relief trips to  Haiti  after the earthquake there
last year, including transport of forklifts to Port-au-Prince.  “The airport itself didn’t have any equipment to unload
freighter aircraft,” MD Berry said. “So the first thing you
have to do is get that there, or you end up with a load of
planes on the runway full of gear that you can’t get off. You
have to be prepared to knuckle down and get on with it.”  Deepwater Horizon  During the Egypt crisis, Chapman-Freeborn provided a Hawker
Beechcraft 800 jet to transport a group of executives from Cairo
to Istanbul. The company has also supplied Gulfstream IVs, which
can cost $30 million new, and rented a  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) 
Falcon 7X jet to Dutch salvage workers following the blowout
that sank the Deepwater Horizon oil rig in the  Gulf of Mexico .  In Japan, the nuclear crisis has also seen the sole Antonov
An-225 used to carry the world’s  largest concrete pump  from the
U.S. to Fukushima, where its 70-meter (230-foot) boom will help
entomb the reactors once they’ve cooled. The device was made by
Stuttgart, Germany-based Putzmeister Holding Gmbh, whose pumps
encased the Chernobyl power station’s melted core in the 1980s.  While natural disasters remain impossible to predict with
any certainty, according to seismologists and meteorologists,
political turmoil in Arab states shows no sign of abating.  Nine Syrian soldiers were killed yesterday when gunmen
ambushed their vehicles in the coastal oil hub of  Banias , where
tanks were deployed to contain protests, the state-run Syrian
Arab News Agency reported, and the Gulf Cooperation Council has
urged President Ali Abdullah Saleh to quit in Yemen, a country
Chapman-Freeborn’s Berry says is “definitely on the radar.”  A fresh surge in demand for evacuations in coming months
might be harder to cope with than in the winter, when there were
more planes standing idle, Air Charter’s Purton said.  “There was a lot of spare capacity, it being low season,”
he said. “If it was the northern-hemisphere summer we’d have
limitations on what we could have done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  