-- 
Chrysler Output Restricted by Shortages From Japan Quake, Marchionne Says

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-04-11T10:21:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/marchionne-says-chrysler-production-impacted-by-japanese-supply-shortages.html
Chrysler Group LLC Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said a shortage of components from
 Japan  is affecting the U.S. carmaker’s production.  “We are watching very carefully the Japanese supply
situation,” Marchionne told reporters today in Balocco,  Italy ,
at a Jeep brand presentation. “It is going to have an impact.
We already had some production delays.”  Chrysler is working on alternative supply arrangements and
has already taken “a couple” of paint colors off the market
from Japanese suppliers, the CEO said.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest carmaker, said
today it may lose production of 35,000 vehicles at its 13 North
American factories between March 11 and April 25 because of a
Japanese components shortage. A magnitude-9 tremor struck the
country on March 11 leaving 27,493 dead and missing and forcing
damaged factories to close down.  Chrysler aims to build 2 million cars this year and earn a
minimum of 2 billion dollars in operating profit, the CEO
reiterated today. Marchionne, who also runs  Fiat SpA (F) , said the
Italian carmaker may raise its Chrysler stake to 30 percent as
early as tomorrow after meeting goals set by the  U.S. Treasury .  Chrysler’s first quarter performance is going to be
“totally in line with what we told the market we will do,”
Marchionne said.  The CEO is pushing Chrysler to increase its global sales 32
percent in 2011 and post its first annual net profit since
emerging from bankruptcy reorganization in 2009. He wants to
increase Fiat’s ownership of Chrysler to 51 percent in advance
of an initial public offering of the U.S. company’s stock.  Chrysler Stake  Fiat will use cash to buy the remaining 16 percent needed
to get to a 51 percent holding in the U.S. carmaker, Marchionne
said. The U.S. government is giving the first 35 percent to
Chrysler in exchange for meeting certain targets. Chrysler aims
to close a refinancing deal by June to help pay back government
loans, Marchionne said.  Marchionne also said Fiat expects to reach a deal on
Russian production by May. Fiat is targeting growth in emerging
markets to counter losses in  Europe . Marchionne denied an
Automotive News report over the weekend that Fiat may postpone
the U.S. re-introduction of Alfa Romeo mid-2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Balocco, Italy, via the Milan newsroom at
   tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 