-- 
Arizona Law Requiring Immigration Checks by Police Blocked by Appeal Panel

-- B y   P a m   M a c L e a n   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-04-11T22:15:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/arizona-law-mandating-immigration-checks-by-police-is-blocked-on-appeal.html
Arizona  can’t enforce its law
requiring police officers to determine the immigration status of
people stopped for questioning, a federal appeals court ruled.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco today upheld a
lower court ruling that barred the central provisions of the law
from taking effect.  “By imposing mandatory obligations on state and local
officers, Arizona interferes with the federal government’s
authority to implement its priorities and strategies in  law
enforcement , turning Arizona officers into state-directed
[Department of  Homeland Security ] agents,” the appellate panel
said.  Today’s  ruling  may be appealed by Arizona or go back to
U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton for a trial on whether to
permanently block the law as unconstitutional. Arizona, with the
backing of 11 states in court papers, had argued Bolton’s July
28 preliminary order blocking the law should be invalidated.  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail that the federal government is pleased with the
ruling.  While the panel didn’t reach broader constitutional
questions raised by the challenge to the law, Judge John T. Noonan Jr. wrote in a separate opinion that “foreign policy is
not and cannot be determined by the several states.”  ‘Absurdity Too Gross’  “That fifty individual states or one individual state
should have a foreign policy is absurdity too gross to be
entertained,” he said.  The panel noted that presidents of five Central American
and South American countries and governments of others protested
the law.  Arizona Governor Janice Brewer, a Republican, has said the
law is a response to the federal government’s failure to help
the state deal with an influx of illegal immigrants. The statute
makes it a state crime to be in the U.S. illegally.  “I remain steadfast in my belief that Arizona and other
states have a sovereign right and obligation to protect their
citizens and enforce immigration law in accordance with federal
statute,” Brewer said today in a joint statement with state
Attorney General Tom Horne.  U.S. Supreme Court  Brewer said the state is considering its legal options,
including whether to seek reconsideration by an 11-judge panel
of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  or ask the U.S. Supreme Court to
lift the injunction imposed by Bolton.  Bolton ruled that Arizona can’t require police officers to
try to determine whether someone is legally in the U.S. and then
detain that person if they suspect he isn’t. She also blocked a
piece of Arizona’s law that makes it a crime for illegal
immigrants to solicit or perform work. In addition, the ruling
barred police officers from making warrantless arrests of people
they think might be illegal immigrants.  The case is U.S. v. State of Arizona, 10-16645, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco). The lower
court case is U.S. v. State of Arizona, 2:10-cv-1413, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Pamela MacLean in federal court in Oakland at
 pmaclean@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  