-- 
Arsenal Revives Premier League Title Ambitions With 3-1 Win Over Blackpool

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-04-11T00:06:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/arsenal-revives-premier-league-title-ambitions-with-3-1-win-over-blackpool.html
Arsenal kept alive its Premier
League soccer title chances by ending a three-game winless run
with a 3-1 victory at Blackpool. Aston Villa beat Newcastle 1-0.  Abou Diaby, Emmanuel Eboue and Robin  van Persie  got
Arsenal’s goals yesterday as the Gunners moved to within seven
points of leader  Manchester United  having played one match
fewer. Arsenal hosts United on May 1.  “We needed this, we needed to get a win,” Van Persie told
 Sky Sports . “There are seven games to play and it is up to us.
We have it in ourselves and we have to prove it.”  Arsenal, which hasn’t won a trophy since the F.A. Cup in
2005, had drawn with Blackburn, West Brom and Sunderland in
recent weeks. The league represents Arsenal’s final chance of
silverware this season after it exited the F.A. Cup and
Champions League and lost to Birmingham in the League Cup final.  “We went through a period of grief and then we had to
stand up and show we had the mental strength to respond,”
Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said at a news conference. “The
team has done that remarkably well. We have promised ourselves
to give everything until the end of the season.”  Relegation-threatened Blackpool put early pressure on the
Gunners yesterday. The visitors’ defense included 41-year-old
goalkeeper Jens Lehmann, who’d come out of retirement to make
his 200th appearance for the club. He replaced  Manuel Almunia ,
who injured a knee in the warmup.  Arsenal took the lead against the run of play in the 18th
minute, Van Persie crossing from the left and Diaby slotting the
ball into the goal from close range.  Van Persie Chance  It was 2-0 three minutes later as Eboue burst through to
slam a left-foot shot past Richard Kingson, who then saved from
Van Persie. Diaby wasted another chance when he dithered on the
ball after Arsenal sprang the home team’s offside trap.  Just on halftime DJ Campbell almost got a goal back, though
Cesc Fabregas cleared off the line.  Blackpool scored in the 52nd minute through Gary Taylor-
Fletcher, when referee Lee Mason waved play on after Lehmann
brought down Campbell. Blackpool then had a penalty appeal
rejected after Taylor-Fletcher tumbled under  Laurent Koscielny ’s
challenge and Keith Southern failed to connect with a close-
range header for the home side.  A counterattack down the right gave Arsenal a 3-1 lead with
14 minutes remaining. Theo Walcott accelerated down the wing and
crossed to set up Van Persie for an easy finish.  Lehmann dashed out to block Campbell and maintain his
team’s two-goal advantage as Blackpool tried to hit back.  ‘Surprises’  “Sometimes life is about surprises and you never know what
is coming,” Lehmann said of his return to action for Arsenal.
“We are back in it and let’s see how far we can go.”  Manchester United leads the standings with 69 points as it
seeks a record 19th English league title. Arsenal has 62,
Chelsea 58, Manchester City 56 and Tottenham 53. United has
played one more game than the other teams.  Blackpool stays 17th in the 20-team league, one point above
the three-team relegation positions.  James Collins’s first-half header secured the win that took
 Aston Villa  up to 14th, five points ahead of the drop zone.  Manchester City visits Liverpool today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  