-- 
Matsuyama to Join Japan Earthquake Relief After Masters' Low Amateur Score

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/matsuyama-to-join-japan-earthquake-relief-after-masters-low-amateur-score.html
Hideki Matsuyama said he’s eager to
return to  Japan  to help with earthquake relief after matching
the lowest score by an amateur in six years at golf’s Masters
Tournament.  Matsuyama, 19, tied 2010 Masters champion  Phil Mickelson 
for 27th place at the first major championship of the year
yesterday with a score of 1-under par.  Matsuyama joined winner Charl Schwartzel of  South Africa  at
the award ceremony near the 18th green at Augusta National Golf
Club in Augusta,  Georgia , to receive the silver trophy presented
to the amateur with the best score.  “I hope my success here will bring some joy, happiness and
hope to my fellow Japanese in a very difficult time,” Matsuyama
said through an interpreter.  Matsuyama finished 13 shots behind Schwartzel, who won his
first major title by two shots, and was the first amateur to
make the cut for weekend play since 2005, when  Ryan Moore  also
finished at 1-under par.  The Masters’ connection to amateur golf goes back to
Augusta National co-founder Bob Jones, who won 13 of 21 major
championships he entered as an amateur from 1923 to 1930.  Matsuyama said he got chills hearing the applause from fans
as he walked up the 18th hole, where he finished with a birdie.  “I was so happy to hear that,” said Matsuyama, who
qualified for Augusta as the 2010 Asian Amateur champion. “And
also, that I was able to finish up with a birdie. That’s a great
memory that I can take home.”  Dead, Missing  Matsuyama said he plans to return to Japan today to
volunteer for relief work in Sendai, where he’s a freshman at
Tohoku Fukushi University.  Matsuyama was training in  Australia  when a magnitude 9
earthquake struck Japan on March 11 and caused a tsunami that
left more than 27,000 people dead or missing, according to
Japan’s  National Police Agency . Almost half of those dead or
missing are from Miyagi prefecture, where Sendai is the capital.  Matsuyama said the disaster made him consider giving up his
boyhood dream of playing in the Masters. He said he didn’t know
what the volunteer work will entail.  “I don’t know exactly what I’m going to do at this point
but I know that my coach will tell all of the teams what kind of
things that we can do together,” said Matsuyama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  