-- 
Auction Clampdown as Non-Payers Hurt $10 Billion Asia Market

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-04-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/auction-houses-clamp-down-on-non-payers-hurting-10-billion-asia-art-sales.html
The $10 billion market for Chinese
antiques is about to be transformed by the unexpected fallout
from an auction at a saleroom in a suburb of  London .  An 18th-century vase found in a house clearance, bid to an
auction record for any Chinese artwork, has become the biggest
example of slow payments from Chinese buyers. With no payment
reported by  Bainbridges  for the 51.6 million pound ($83.2
million) Nov. 11 sale, other auction houses yesterday told
Bloomberg that they are demanding deposits from would-be buyers.  The deposits will safeguard sellers, while deterring some
bidders and potentially cooling prices at a time when the Asian
market is growing faster than that in the U.S. and U.K.  “There must be a problem with payment, otherwise the
auction houses wouldn’t do this,” the London-based dealer  John
Berwald  said. “It’s a difficult balance to strike between being
stringent with the buyers and not making them discouraged.”  China  overtook the U.S. as the world’s biggest auction
market for fine art last year, according to research company
 Artprice . Chinese sales of antiques were alone valued at 6
billion euros ($8.6 billion) and grew 160 percent year-on-year,
according to a European Fine Art Foundation report published
last month. Further auctions and dealer transactions in the West
have turned the trade in Chinese artifacts into a business worth
more than $10 billion, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Growing Millionaires  Buying at auctions of Asian art in  Europe  and the U.S. is
now routinely dominated by bidders from China, which last year
became the world’s second-biggest economy. The country’s growing
number of  millionaires  is bidding to unprecedented levels to
repatriate works of art, particularly when they have Imperial
associations. Some bidders have been reluctant payers, said
dealers.  In the London sale, auctioneer Peter Bainbridge broke his
hammer after spending half an hour taking bids from an excited
crowd of more than 40 Chinese collectors, dealers and agents
that had traveled to Ruislip in the hope of buying an
elaborately decorated vase that had once been owned by the
Qianlong Emperor.  At the end, it came down to a duel between two young agents
sitting on a gilded sofa at the front of the salesroom.  Bainbridge, director of the west London auction house,
wouldn’t comment when telephoned by Bloomberg News on April 7.
He had said in February that payment hadn’t been received and
the vase was still in safe storage.  The issue of Chinese bidders failing to pay their auction
bills was also raised in February 2009, when a pair of 18th-
century bronze animal heads fetched 31.5 million euros at
Christie’s International’s sale of the collection of the late
fashion designer  Yves Saint Laurent  and his partner  Pierre Berge .  Cai’s Refusal  The successful bidder was Chinese dealer Cai Mingchao, who
later refused to pay for his purchases. The sale was
subsequently canceled and the sculptures returned to Berge, said
dealers. Christie’s refused to comment.  Paris-based Asian-art expert Pierre Ansas was mindful of
non-payment issues when he asked clients to leave a 200,000 euro
deposit to bid on a Qianlong-dynasty Imperial scroll painting
and seal offered at auctions in Toulouse,  France , on March 26.  “It’s not popular,” said Ansas, prior to the auctions he
catalogued. “I need to be responsible, though. I have a
business to run. I would rather have sold the scroll for 8
million or 10 million euros to someone with money in the bank,
rather than for a crazy price to someone I don’t know.”  Scroll Deposit  The scroll, showing the army of the Qianlong emperor at a
military review, sold for 22.1 million euros and the seal for
12.4 million euros to different Chinese buyers. Seven bidders
from  Asia  had been prepared to leave 200,000 euro deposits to
bid on the scroll. Buyers were contracted to pay a third of the
bill within a week and the balance within three months. An agent
representing the reputed buyer of the Bainbridge vase wasn’t
allowed to register, Ansas said.  Last week in  Hong Kong , Chinese mainlanders wanting to buy
an 18th-century Imperial vase and other designated “premium
lots” at Sotheby’s sale of the Meiyintang collection of
ceramics balked after being asked for deposits of as much as
$500,000, said dealers.  Thirty percent of the 77 lots in the ceramics sale were
left unsold, including the vase valued at more than HK$180
million ($23 million). It later was sold in a private
transaction for HK$200 million,  Sotheby’s (BID)  said.  High-Value Pieces  U.K. regional auctioneers also want to ensure the payment
of high-value Chinese pieces.  “I’m thinking of taking a deposit on three or four lots,”
John Axford, head of Asian art at the Salisbury-based
auctioneers  Woolley & Wallis , said in an interview. “It’s a
safeguard. I have to be responsible to my vendors.”  The Wiltshire auction house will be offering a Qianlong-
dynasty Imperial white jade teapot and cover in its May 18 Asian
sale, valued at 200,000 pounds to 300,000 pounds. It might be
one of the deposit-protected lots, said Axford, who is talking
with lawyers on the legality of the measure in the U.K. Buyers
are typically given three months to pay at his sales, he said.  The Dorchester-based auction house  Duke’s  holds a sale on
May 19 and will be including an Imperial yellow jade plaque,
which like the bronze animal heads was looted from Beijing’s
Summer Palace in 1860. The plaque is estimated to fetch more
than 100,000 pounds.  “We are considering introducing a system of ‘premium’
lots,” said Duke’s director, Guy Schwinge. “We may ask bidders
we don’t know to pay a deposit.”  “The auction houses are going to have to get tougher,”
said the London-based dealer  Roger Keverne , who recently had to
wait six months to be paid for a Chinese porcelain piece that
fetched 150,000 pounds at auction. “With new money, you get
waves of new buyers. Deposits are a good idea if the bidder
hasn’t got a track record. Otherwise we’ll end up with a false
market.”  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 