-- 
Austria Says Private Capital Won’t Count in EU Stress Test

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-04-11T11:16:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/austria-says-private-capital-won-t-count-in-eu-stress-test-1-.html
Europe bank stress tests won’t
count so-called participation capital provided by private
investors, according to  Austria ’s Financial Market Authority.  Participation capital, a form of non-voting bank capital,
will only be counted toward a lender’s Core Tier 1 capital ratio
if provided by the state,Klaus Grubelnik, a spokesman for the
supervisor, said in a telephone interview from Vienna today.  Should a bank fail to maintain a Core Tier 1 capital ratio
of at least 5 percent under the stress-test scenarios, the
number then would be recalculated to see if the lender would
pass including private participation capital, he said.  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  received 1.2 billion euros ($1.7
billion) in participation capital from the Austrian government
in 2009 in a deal in which it also raised 540 million euros from
private investors.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  in the same
year received 1.75 billion euros from the state and 750 million
euros from private investors.  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  received 1 billion euros of
participation capital from Austria. At the end of September that
amounted to 39 percent of Volksbanken’s total capital,  Fitch
Ratings  said in a Jan. 5 note. Private participation capital
amounted to 22 percent, according to Fitch.  Walter Groeblinger, a spokesman for Volksbanken, declined
to comment on the effect the stress test rules would have on
Core Tier 1 capital. Spokesmen for Erste and Raiffeisen didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Core Tier 1, as defined by global regulators in the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, largely consists of banks’
common stock and retained earnings. The 2010 stress tests were
conducted against a pass rate of 6 percent Tier 1 capital, which
encompasses a broader range of securities including hybrid
instruments such as preference shares.  Erste and Raiffeisen both participated and passed last
year’s  stress test . Volksbanken wasn’t included in 2010 and will
be tested this year, European Banking Authority said on April 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  