-- 
Australia Can Meet Higher LNG Demand From Japan After Quake

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-04-11T07:49:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/australia-can-meet-higher-lng-demand-from-japan-after-quake-1-.html
Australia  is able to meet any
increase in demand for liquefied natural gas from  Japan 
following the country’s nuclear crisis, Energy Minister Martin Ferguson said.  “Australia is well-placed to help meet this increase in
demand,” Ferguson said at a conference in Perth today. Global
LNG consumption may more than double within 25 years to 360
million metric tons a year, according to the minister.  Japan, which depends on imported fuel for most of its needs,
may seek alternatives to nuclear power after an earthquake and
tsunami a month ago damaged Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant. The atomic crisis will spur demand for LNG
“over both the short and longer term,” Ferguson said.  In 2007, when  Tokyo Electric  shut the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa
plant after an quake, spot LNG imports from the Atlantic Basin
jumped to 6.6 million metric tons in the 12 months to July 2008
from an average of 1.45 million in the years preceding and
following the disaster, according to data from the Tokyo-based
customs office.  The magnitude-9 temblor in Japan on March 11 knocked out as
much as 12 gigawatts of nuclear power, or 20 percent of capacity,
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co said last month.  Inpex Corp., Japan’s largest energy explorer, and  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer,
are among companies set to benefit as countries rely more on gas
and less on nuclear power, analysts including Deutsche Bank AG’s
 John Hirjee  have said. Inpex and partner Paris-based Total SA
aim to make a decision to proceed with the $33 billion Ichthys
LNG project in the fourth quarter.  Australia is “on track” to be the world’s second-largest
supplier of the fuel by 2015, Ferguson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 