-- 
Australia's Dollar Trades Near Record on Commodity Prices, Higher Yields

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-04-11T07:06:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/australia-s-dollar-trades-near-record-on-commodity-prices-higher-yields.html
Australia ’s dollar was within 0.2
percent of a record against its U.S. counterpart as higher
commodity prices boosted the outlook for the South Pacific
nation’s exports.  The so-called Aussie touched the strongest in 31 months
versus the yen as the extra yield on two-year Australian
 government bonds  over similar-maturity Japanese securities
widened to the most in two months. Advances in the Australian
and  New Zealand  dollars were tempered on speculation gains of
more than 7 percent versus the yen in the past month will prompt
investors to sell.  “Both the Australian and New Zealand currencies are
benefiting from the overall increase in commodity prices,” said
Khoon Goh, head of market economics and strategy in Wellington
at ANZ National Bank Ltd. Among Group of 10 nations, “Australia
stands out as having the highest-yielding currency amongst all
of them, so that continues to provide strong support.”  The Aussie was at $1.0560 as of 4:15 p.m. in Sydney from
$1.0564 in  New York  on April 8, when it reached $1.0584, the
strongest since being allowed to trade freely in 1983.
Australia’s dollar traded at 89.48 yen from 89.54 yen after
reaching 90.03 yen, the highest level since September 2008.  New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, bought 66.34 yen
from 66.33 yen last week. It reached 66.71 yen on April 6, the
highest since May 13. The currency was unchanged at 78.28 U.S.
cents.  Central Bank Rates  The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials climbed
2.2 percent in its third consecutive weekly gain in the five
days ending April 8. The yields spread between two-year
Australian bonds and Japanese debt widened to 4.87 percentage
points, the most since Feb. 15.  Swaps prices today showed traders increased expect the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia to add 31 basis points to its key
interest rate from 15 basis points at the end of last month,
according to a Credit Suisse AG index. Australia’s benchmark
rate is 4.75 percent.  New Zealand’s 12-month overnight index swap rates, a
security based on what investors expect the central bank’s rate
will average during that period, was at 2.64 percent, the
highest level since March 8 on a closing basis. That compares
with 2.5 percent for the benchmark interest rate.  The Australian dollar was also bolstered after the Sunday
Times reported in  London  yesterday that BHP Billiton Ltd. is in
talks to buy Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s stake in Woodside Petroleum
Ltd. and make a full takeover offer worth A$46 billion ($49
billion). BHP said in a statement it’s “not aware of any basis
for the market speculation” for media reports linking it to
Woodside.  Takeover Speculation  The report “is lending the Australian dollar additional
support,” foreign-exchange strategist Sara Yates and currency
economist David Forrester at  Barclays Capital , wrote in a
research note today. “We are cautious on the FX impact of the
BHP-Billiton-Woodside deal, however, given that the deal will
require approval of Australia’s regulatory authorities and press
reports are of the initial deal being done via an asset swap.”  The Aussie has climbed 7.9 percent against the yen in the
past month, while the kiwi has surged 9.2 percent.  “There is a sense of achievement in the market after the
Aussie reached 90 yen, spurring profit-taking,” said Takuya Kawabata, a researcher at the unit of  Japan ’s largest foreign-
exchange margin company in  Tokyo . “People have been wary about
the high level of the Aussie.”  Futures traders increased bets that the Australian dollar
will gain against the U.S. currency, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.
The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on an advance in the Australian dollar
compared with those on a drop, so-called net longs, was 90,938
on April 5, compared with net longs of 85,565 a week earlier.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net 
NI CLM
NI AUD
NI GBN
NI AUB
NI NZ
NI ANZ
NI ASIA
NI FRX
NI NZB
NI BON
NI FX
NI GFX
NI MMK
NI YENCARRY
NI FXMARKET 