-- 
Australia, New Zealand Disasters to Slow GDP Before 2012 Rebound, IMF Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-04-11T23:06:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/australia-n-z-disasters-slow-gdp-before-rebound-imf-says-1-.html
Australia  and New Zealand will grow
at a slower pace than previously forecast this year as floods
and earthquakes disrupt their economies before higher investment
spurs expansions in 2012, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Australia’s gross domestic product will increase 3 percent
in 2011, half a percentage point lower than an October estimate,
the IMF said in its semi-annual World Economic Outlook. New
Zealand’s GDP will rise 0.9 percent, down from last month’s
prediction of 1 percent and last year’s 3.2 percent, it said.  “In Australia, flooding in key mining and agricultural
regions is expected to subtract from growth in early 2011, but
over the year this will be offset by stronger private
investment,” the Washington-based IMF said in today’s report.
While “earthquakes will slow activity in  New Zealand  this
year,” growth will strengthen in 2012 as reconstruction of the
South Island city of Christchurch intensifies.  Australia’s central bank paused interest-rate increases
this year to allow Queensland state to recover from torrential
rains and storms, and New Zealand cut borrowing costs to a
record last month to help shore up confidence after the Feb. 22
quake leveled parts of Christchurch and killed at least 170
people. In contrast, policy makers from Beijing to Frankfurt are
trying to stamp out inflation with higher rates.  Swan in  Washington   Treasurer  Wayne Swan  travels to Washington today to attend
a Group of 20 finance ministers meeting and IMF and World Bank
gatherings, his office said in a statement.  “The tragic events in  Japan , political instability in
North Africa and the Middle East, and persisting sovereign debt
concerns in  Europe  continue to cloud the global economic
horizon,” Swan said in today’s statement. He said the
Treasury’s analysis showed the impact of natural disasters at
home and abroad may cut Australia’s economic growth by as much
as 0.75 percentage point in 2010-11.  Australia’s terms of trade, a measure of income earned from
exports, are at a 60-year high as Chinese and Indian demand for
 iron ore  and coal surges. New Zealand’s exports are also gaining
on increased Asian demand for the nation’s dairy products.  New Zealand central bank Governor Alan Bollard last month
lowered his 2011 growth forecast to 1.3 percent from 2.7 percent
and cut borrowing costs to 2.5 percent. Ten of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast the rate will be unchanged
until 2012. Four predict a fourth quarter rate rise.  Central Bank Outlook  Australia’s central bank in February raised its forecast
for 2011 growth to 4.25 percent, from a November prediction of
3.75 percent, saying flood rebuilding will accelerate in the
second half. The IMF’s growth forecast is an annual average,
while the central bank’s is measured from the fourth quarter to
a year earlier.  Traders see a 26 percent chance  Reserve Bank  of Australia
Governor Glenn Stevens will raise  interest rates  in September,
bank bill futures trading yesterday showed.  The IMF forecast Australia’s growth will accelerate to 3.5
percent in 2012, driven by a resource-investment boom and higher
commodity prices. New Zealand’s economy will surge 4.1 percent
next year, the report showed.  Hiring by mining companies helped drive Australia’s jobless
rate down to 4.9 percent in March, matching a two-year low set
in December and approaching what government officials view as
full employment.  Inflation Forecasts  The IMF forecast Australian consumer prices will increase 3
percent this year and in 2012, the top of the central bank’s
target range of 2 percent to 3 percent. It estimated New
Zealand’s inflation will accelerate to 4.1 percent this year
before slowing to 2.7 percent in 2012.  New Zealand’s central bank aims to keep inflation in a
range of 1 percent to 3 percent.  The IMF predicted Australia’s jobless rate would average 5
percent this year and 4.8 percent next year, while New Zealand’s
unemployment rate was forecast to decline to 6.2 percent in 2012
from 6.7 percent this year.  In New Zealand, 6.8 percent of the  labor force  was
unemployed in the fourth quarter.  Australia’s currency has risen about 13 percent over the
past 12 months, the third-best performer among the 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. New Zealand’s has strengthened
9 percent, the eighth-best performer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  