-- 
Auto Sales May Top Analysts’ Earlier Estimates on Jobs Recovery

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-04-11T16:31:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/auto-sales-may-top-analysts-earlier-estimates-on-jobs-recovery.html
U.S. automobile sales this year may
rise faster than analysts had earlier anticipated as the
improving job market prevents higher gasoline prices and supply
disruptions in  Japan  from derailing the industry’s recovery.  Total sales of cars and light trucks may rise to 13 million
this year, the average of 18 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The average estimate was 12.9 million in a Bloomberg
survey of 17 analysts in January. Light-vehicle sales last year
rose to 11.6 million from a 27-year low in 2009.  Auto sales ran at seasonally adjusted annual rate of 13.1
million in the first quarter, the fastest pace since the quarter
ending June 2008, according to Autodata Corp. Demand held up
while gasoline prices rose to the highest in more than two years
and Japan’s earthquake disrupted production and tightened
inventories of some models.  “Despite it all, people still need cars,” said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst at industry researcher Edmunds.com, which
kept its estimate at 12.9 million. “There’s still that issue of
pent-up demand that we see in the marketplace that you can’t
ignore.”  The  U.S. economy  added jobs for six consecutive months
through March, with payrolls rising by 478,000 in the first
quarter, and the  unemployment rate  fell to a two-year low of 8.8
percent, according to Labor Department figures.  Seven analysts raised their estimates for full-year auto
sales since the beginning of the year. IHS Automotive lowered
its estimate to 12.9 million vehicles, from as high as 13.3
million in February, citing higher oil prices and disruptions
following Japan’s earthquake.  Oil Prices, Japan  The higher cost of oil accounts for a 150,000-vehicle
reduction in IHS’s estimate, and Japan-related production losses
account for the remainder, said George Magliano, a New York-
based senior economist for the researcher.  “We’re a little more optimistic on the job market, which
we think has finally turned,” Magliano said in a telephone
interview. “Credit has begun to loosen up a bit more. That made
us feel better about where the year was going. Now, we’ve got
two things working against us.”  U.S. consumer borrowing rose for a fifth straight month in
February on an increase in non-revolving credit, which includes
borrowing for autos, the  Federal Reserve  reported April 7.  Lenders began expanding credit to new-car buyers last year,
according to Experian Automotive, which tracks auto-lending
data. Buyers with nonprime or weaker credit scores accounted for
19.8 percent of the new-vehicle financing market in the fourth
quarter, up from 16.8 percent a year earlier, Costa Mesa,
California-based Experian said.  Credit Expands  “The lenders are coming to the consumers, and the
consumers are doing everything they can to improve their
standing so they can hopefully meet in the middle,” said Dan
Montague, an analyst at the Autofacts forecasting unit of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which raised its estimate for full-
year deliveries to 13 million from 12.5 million.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. automaker, closed
its truck plant in Louisville,  Kentucky , last week because of a
Japan-related parts shortage. The factory makes F-Series pickups
and the Lincoln Navigator and Ford Expedition SUVs, according to
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s website.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S. automaker, also
reported production disruptions the week of March 21 at its
pickup plant in Shreveport,  Louisiana , and factories in
Zaragoza,  Spain , and Eisenach,  Germany .  ‘Temporary’ Japan Impact  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest carmaker, has said
it lost 140,000 units of production from March 14 to March 26,
citing a shortage of electronic parts, rubber and plastics. The
company said today it may lose output of 35,000 vehicles at its
North American factories through April 25.  A shortage of vehicles for Japan-based automakers including
Toyota, Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. will be a temporary
headwind, said  Efraim Levy , an analyst with  Standard & Poor’s 
Equity Research, which kept its 13 million 2011 sales estimate.  “There will be some makeup of those sales in the second
half of the year, but in general consumers will mostly opt to
find an alternative vehicle and purchase now, rather than
wait,” said Levy, who’s based in  New York . “That’s a potential
benefit to U.S. and Korean automakers and a minor impact on
overall sales for the year.”  GM repeated this month its forecast that sales this year
may be as much as 13.5 million when including medium- and heavy-
duty trucks. A “significant slowdown” as a result of the Japan
earthquake is unlikely, said Don Johnson, Detroit-based GM’s
vice president of U.S. sales, said on a conference call.  Pent-Up Demand  “The biggest problem I have is not having enough cars, and
that’s about the best problem to have,” said Robert Morris,
president of a Cadillac, Buick and GMC dealership in North
Olmsted,  Ohio , near Cleveland. “People can only stay down for so
long before they just kind of snap themselves out of it. The
pent-up demand is breaking loose.”  The sales estimates compiled by Bloomberg range from as
high as 14 million predicted by  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to 12.6 million
projected by AutoPacific Inc.  More of the  labor force  is settling for part-time work,
which is skewing a recovery in the job market, said Ed Kim, an
analyst at AutoPacific in Tustin,  California .  “Part-time work generally doesn’t cut it as far as having
the income necessary to buy a new vehicle,” said Kim, who
raised his estimate to 12.6 million vehicles from 12.4 million
at the beginning of the year. “I don’t think that necessarily
translates into a significantly higher number of consumers who
can buy a new vehicle now.”  Annual U.S. deliveries were 16.8 million on average from
2000 to 2007, according to Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based
Autodata.  The following table shows estimates for 2011 light-vehicle
sales in the U.S. Estimates are in millions of vehicles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 