-- 
Aviva Plans to Sell 478 Million-Euro Stake in Delta Lloyd

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-04-11T17:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/aviva-plans-to-sell-478-million-euro-stake-in-delta-lloyd-1-.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , Britain’s second-biggest
insurer by market value, plans to sell a 15 percent stake in
 Delta Lloyd NV (DL)  as its cedes majority control of the Dutch
insurer it took public in 2009.  The insurer will sell about 25 million shares worth about
478 million euros ($690 million) in the Amsterdam-based firm,
according to a sales document sent to investors. That will
reduce the stake held by Aviva to 43 percent from about 58
percent, Aviva said today in a statement. Morgan Stanley and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are managing the offering.  Aviva Chief Executive Officer Andrew Moss said in March he
planned to concentrate on 12 markets in  Europe , the U.S. and
Asia and will “de-emphasize” others. Aviva rejected a bid for
its non-life-insurance division from rival  RSA Insurance Group
Plc (RSA)  last year. The firm is planning a sale of RAC, its U.K.
roadside recovery business, a person with knowledge of the
matter said last month.  “The offering is consistent with the group’s strategy of
prioritizing investment in the twelve markets where Aviva has
strength and scale, which do not include the Benelux region,”
the London-based insurer said.  Aviva sold a stake in Delta Lloyd in 2009 when it held an
initial public offering for the Dutch insurer. The U.K. insurer,
the biggest shareholder, has two out of nine seats on Delta
Lloyd’s supervisory  board .  “This decision is in line with Delta Lloyd Group’s wish
for greater strategic and financial independence from Aviva,”
 Delta Lloyd  said in a separate statement.  Aviva said it expects life and pension sales in the first
quarter to be 10 percent to 15 percent less than in the year-
earlier period when revenue was 9.1 billion pounds. Operating
profit will be in line with company’s forecasts, Aviva said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 