-- 
Baker & McKenzie Sued for $600 Million for Role in Chemical Company Demise

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-04-11T22:11:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/baker-mckenzie-sued-for-role-in-chemical-company-s-demise-1-.html
Baker & McKenzie  LLP, the world’s
second-largest law firm by number of lawyers, and a former
partner were sued by a Pittsburgh company over claims they
created a legal structure that led to a company’s demise.  The firm and its partner Martin Weisberg devised a plan in
which millions of shares of Industrial Enterprises of America
Inc. were illegally issued resulting in losses of at least $150
million, according to a complaint filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in Wilmington,  Delaware . The company is seeking $600 million in
damages.  “Defendants created a legal structure that enabled an
unlawful pump-and-dump scam, misleading or outright false Nasdaq
and SEC filings, and participation in a host of internal
corporate malfeasances designed to raid the company of its
working capital,” lawyers for the company said in the
complaint.  Baker & McKenzie didn’t disclose that Weisberg had been
indicted on securities fraud charges prior to working with
Industrial Enterprises, the company said in the filing.
According to the complaint, Weisberg assisted in drafting the
company’s 2004 stock-option plan that provided for the issuance
of restricted shares to employees, outside directors and
consultants.  Instead of rewarding actual company employees, the plan was
used to “print money” for company executives and their
girlfriends and their attorneys, according to the complaint.  ‘Looked the Other Way’  “Because Weisberg was the beneficiary of the sale of
improperly issued stock, however, Baker looked the other way
while assisting IEAM’s officers to loot IEAM,” lawyers for the
company said in the complaint.  Weisberg quit the firm in October 2007. A phone number
listed for a Marty Weisberg in  New York  was disconnected. No
number is listed for Weisberg’s last known address in Waccabuc,
New York.  Baker & McKenzie declined to comment.  “Since this is a pending litigation matter and we have not
studied the complaint, we will have no further comment at this
time,” the firm said in an e-mailed statement.  Industrial Enterprises of America sold antifreeze, auto
fluids and other automotive additives and chemicals. The company
sought  bankruptcy protection  in May 2009, listing both assets
and debts of $1 million to $10 million.  In May, former Chief Executive Officer John D. Mazzuto was
charged in an alleged $60 million stock fraud scheme.
Prosecutors in  Manhattan  said Mazzuto and James W. Margulies,
who served briefly as CEO, issued millions of shares worth tens
of millions of dollars to friends, family members and alma
maters, fraudulently inflating the stock’s value.  Attorney Trust Account  Mazzuto resigned as CEO and interim chief financial officer
in February 2008. Margulies briefly took over both posts before
resigning the following month, according to company filings.  The largest recipient of company shares was an attorney
trust account opened by Margulies, according to the indictment.
The account received 3.5 million shares of stock which he sold
for $17.7 million, directing some $13 million back to the
company and the rest to accounts controlled by him and Mazzuto.  The company accused Margulies in today’s complaint of
wiring $2.7 million of IEAM share proceeds from the trust
account in September 2006 to an account in Weisberg’s name for
the purchase of a home for Mazzuto. Weisberg was aware that the
proceeds of the share sale violated federal securities laws,
according to the complaint.  The complaint is seeking restitution for the full value of
the improperly issued shares in addition to unspecified damages.  The case is  Industrial Enterprises of America Inc. (IEAM)  v. Baker
& McKenzie LLP, 11-51767, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  