-- 
Bangladesh Stocks Drop After Report Says Brokers Caused Slump

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-04-11T14:31:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/bangladesh-stocks-drop-after-report-says-brokers-caused-slump.html
The Dhaka Stock Exchange’s
benchmark index fell for the first time in three days after a
report said a government panel held 50 brokerages responsible
for a decline in stock prices that prompted investors to riot.  The panel in its report submitted to the finance minister
on March 7 named the brokerages and recommended action,
Bdnews24.com, a Bangladeshi news website, said today. Shares
plunged earlier this year prompting the exchange to close twice
after investors protested and pelted stones at the bourse. The
panel’s recommendations have not been officially released.  The Dhaka Stock Exchange General Index fell 4.5 percent to
6,262.69 at the 3:00 p.m. close. The gauge climbed 22 percent in
March after losing 30.5 percent in February and 9.7 percent in
January. The measure had rallied 83 percent in 2010 and 62
percent in 2009.  “Local funds sold stocks heavily on fears of punitive
action by government agencies on brokerages and banks after the
report was released by a news website,” said Muhammad Saifuddin,
managing director at Dhaka-based IDLC Securities Ltd. “However,
this is an overreaction and we expect stocks to rebound
tomorrow.”  The panel also asked the central bank to punish commercial
banks, which had violated norms to benefit from the stock
decline, the news report said.  Bangladesh’s Securities & Exchange Commission “was
responsible for the market crash as it did not do adequate due
diligence,” Chairman of the Capital Market Investigation
Committee Khondkar Ibrahim Khaled said in a phone interview on
April 7. The SEC Chairman Ziaul Khondker didn’t answer two calls
made to his mobile phone today and didn’t respond to a text
message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  