-- 
Bank Foreclosure Deal Shouldn’t End State Probes, New York State AG Says

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-04-12T04:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/bank-foreclosure-deal-shouldn-t-end-individual-state-probes-new-york-says.html
The resolution of a 50-state probe
of foreclosure practices shouldn’t block individual states from
investigating the mortgage-servicing industry, according to the
office of New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman .  “Any settlement agreement should preserve the ability of
 attorneys general  to follow the facts where they lead and not be
precluded from conducting comprehensive investigations,” Lauren
Passalacqua, a Schneiderman spokeswoman, said yesterday in a
statement.  The statement came as chief law enforcement officials from
some states attended a North Carolina gathering sponsored by the
 National Association of Attorneys General . In March, the
attorneys general sent a 27-page term sheet to the biggest U.S.
mortgage servicers, laying out possible changes to foreclosure
practices, including new documentation rules and calling for a
loan-modification program.  “The attorney general of New York has expressed some
concerns about his ability to pursue cases outside of the
settlement and we are working to see if we can address those
concerns,” Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney
General Tom Miller, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
Miller is helping to lead a state-federal probe of mortgage-
servicers.  Greenwood declined to comment further on the discussions or
details of a proposed settlement.  ‘Continue Negotiations’  In an e-mail, he said he thinks all states as well as banks
have “understandable concerns” about how a settlement may
limit state actions. He said he didn’t know whether other
attorneys general had talked to Miller about the issue. Some
mortgage servicers, including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , have been
sued by states.  “The executive committee will discuss these issues, and we
undoubtedly will attempt to work through them as we continue our
negotiations,” he said in the e-mail.  The largest U.S. mortgage servicers began signing
agreements with regulators to improve procedures after federal
investigations found they conducted foreclosures without proper
review or complete documentation, two people with direct
knowledge of the negotiations said last week. These agreements
are separate from the 50-state probe.  Risk-Management Practices  The so-called consent decrees, which could be signed by as
many as 14 servicers including Bank of America Corp. and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , require companies to strengthen their systems for
handling foreclosure documents and communicating with borrowers
who are behind on their payments, said two people briefed on the
matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
agreements aren’t public. The deals also require firms to
improve auditing and risk-management practices, the people said.  Banking regulators issuing the consent decrees -- the
 Federal Reserve , the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. -- are moving forward with procedural remedies
while continuing negotiations over possible monetary penalties,
they said.  Schneiderman, 56, last week issued subpoenas to Pillar
Processing LLC and the law firm of Steven J. Baum, according to
a person familiar with the matter. Baum’s firm specializes in
foreclosures in New York state. Pillar shares an address with
the law firm and processes foreclosure paperwork.  Seeking Documents  The attorney general asked for documents submitted on
behalf of the law firm in court and to parties representing
individuals in foreclosure, according to the person, who
declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public. He is
also seeking documents from Baum relating to procedures
governing Pillar’s services to the law practice, said the
person. The  New York  Times reported on the subpoenas April 9.  Passalacqua declined to comment on the Baum and Pillar
subpoenas and probe.  Baum’s law firm, located in Amherst, New York, has
attracted lawsuits and fines for its actions during the housing
crisis. The firm has been accused of overcharging, filing false
documents and representing parties on both sides of a mortgage
transfer.  In December, in response to questions about his work, Baum
wrote that “consumer activists and attorneys representing
homeowners have their own agenda in this process, including
degrading the legal work we conduct on behalf of our clients.”  Earl V. Wells III, a spokesman for Baum, said yesterday
that the firm is cooperating fully with the attorney general’s
office. He declined to comment further. Tailwind Capital LLC,
the private equity firm that owns Pillar, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  