-- 
Bankers Get Off Scot-Free in Industry Overhaul: Matthew Lynn

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 
2011-04-11T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/bankers-get-off-scot-free-in-industry-overhaul-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
Everything you needed to know about
the long-awaited report of the U.K.’s Independent Commission on
Banking was summed up in a few share prices yesterday.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  surged
after details on overhauling the finance industry were released.  Split up the banks? Shut them down? Make them move
elsewhere? No. The commission came up with some irrelevant,
complex and hard-to-enforce rules aimed at raising capital
ratios and separating their retail from investment arms.  In effect, the banks got off scot-free. The British economy
and the nation’s taxpayers will be the big losers.  John Vickers , the former  Bank of England  chief economist
who was chairman of the commission, has failed to live up to the
scale of the task he was assigned. Like the Dodd-Frank Act in
the U.S., there will be lots of new rules and regulations, but
the basic structure of the industry will remain the same -- and
so very little will really change.  The commission was created by the government to study ways
of making the financial system safer. Its most urgent task was
to ensure the collapses suffered by the U.K. and other countries
during the credit crunch could never be repeated.  The task was a big one. Britain is a relatively small
country that happens to be home to some very big banks. Take
Barclays, for example. Its balance sheet is roughly the same
size as the entire gross domestic product of the U.K., according
to a March 29 research note from UBS AG. By comparison, JPMorgan
Chase & Co has a balance sheet that is equivalent to 24 percent
of U.S. GDP, according to UBS.  Ruined by Banks  There is a question mark over whether it makes any sense
for Britain to carry on hosting financial institutions of that
scale. If they collapse, they could bankrupt the nation -- just
as Iceland and Ireland have been ruined by their banks.  The answer the commission has come up with is inadequate.
That isn’t to say it hasn’t made some sensible suggestions. It
will force  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , which merged with HBOS Plc
at the height of the financial crisis, to sell a lot more
branches, over and above the 600 it already has to get rid of to
comply with a European Union ruling. That will introduce a bit
more competition into the financial-services market, and allow
space for new players to enter the industry.  It will force the U.K. banks to have Tier 1 capital levels
of about 10 percent, higher than many of their foreign rivals.
They will have to put in place plans for an orderly bankruptcy,
and separate their consumer units, so that, in theory anyway,
the collapse of their investment-banking arms needn’t threaten
ordinary savers and depositors.  No Change  The trouble is, you have to be living on another planet to
think any of that will change much. And it is impossible to
believe it will be enough to stop another 2008-style collapse.  First, too little competition wasn’t the issue. One of the
consequences of the credit crunch was that mergers designed to
prop up collapsing banks made the U.K. savings and mortgage
markets less open. Banks disappeared into rivals. Consumers will
suffer from that. It needs to be fixed. But no one can believe
that in 2008 the U.K. finance industry wasn’t competitive
enough. They were handing out mortgages to people’s dogs. More
players vying for business won’t make lenders become more
responsible. If anything it will make them less so.  Second, raising  capital ratios  is only part of the answer.
True, the more capital a bank has, the better it will be able to
withstand financial shocks. And yet, there is little evidence
that not having enough capital caused the credit crunch. It was
the complexity of financial instruments, the bonus system and
the reckless expansion of banks into markets they didn’t
understand and couldn’t control that led to the crash. More
capital will mitigate some risks, but it won’t abolish them.  Blurred Divide  Third, nobody believes in “ring-fencing” bank units. Will
it really be possible to create a structure at RBS or Barclays
that allows the investment arm to fail without damaging the
whole bank? Are the regulators smart enough to make sure that is
enforced, or will some clever bankers find ways to blur the
divide?  Vickers should have created a clean split between
investment and retail banking. The retail banks would be
properly regulated and protected by the government. The
investment banks would raise their own capital, and be
responsible only to their shareholders. That way they can take
as many risks as they like on products of mind-boggling
complexity. If they make a packet, great. If they lose their
shirts, it isn’t a problem for anyone other than their staff.  If Barclays or HSBC decide they don’t like that, they would
be welcome to move their headquarters elsewhere. Both banks are
probably too big for Britain. The country would be better off
without them.  The U.K. had a rare opportunity to fix its overblown
finance industry. Vickers and his commission failed. With luck,
the worst will never happen. But if Britain ever suffers an
Icelandic or Irish meltdown, we will know who to blame.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a book on the Greek debt crisis. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  