-- 
Batali, Boulud, Ripert Lead Star Chefs Spicing Fundraiser Galas

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-04-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/batali-boulud-ripert-lead-celebrity-chefs-spicing-up-fundraisers-galas.html
When the  Food Bank for the
Heartland  in  Nebraska  enlisted Food Network’s  Duff Goldman  last
year for its annual event, the “Ace of Cakes” star helped
raise $250,000, a record for the Omaha food party.  “It’s hard to turn down charity events,” Goldman said in
an interview before the Culinary Institute of America’s March
gala. “When I have to say ‘no,’ it feels like a knife goes
through me.”  As chefs and restaurateurs become media stars and build fan
bases using television and social networks, nonprofits seek them
out to add food and glamour to their fundraisers and even become
patrons and board members.  Mario Batali  sits on the board of the Food Bank for  New
York City  and served as co-chairman for last Thursday’s gala,
which raised $1.4 million. Batali helped recruit R.E.M. frontman
Michael Stipe as a donor.  Citymeals-on-Wheels got  Daniel Boulud  to host a truffle-
themed meal that brought in about $710,000. Chef  Dave Martin 
raised more than $15,000 for the  Make-A-Wish Foundation of Metro
New York  by offering to cook two dinners for 10 people.  Streets International , a New York nonprofit that funds a
culinary training program in Hoi An,  Vietnam , got Gramercy
Tavern executive chef Michael Anthony and former “Top Chef”
contestant Anita Lo of  Manhattan ’s Annisa to make small plates
at its fundraiser last week.  Chef Eric Ripert, whose Le Bernardin has been awarded three
Michelin stars, is a board member for  City Harvest , to which he
donated $93,000 by taking $1 for every meal served in 2009.  “We count the requests for charity events, and I get about
five a day,” said Ripert, who also gives money to Tibet House
US, a nonprofit which supports Tibetan culture.  Groove With Me  Tonight, dance charity  Groove With Me Inc . hopes to bolster
its $385,000 budget with a lineup of top chefs working its “Tap
and Tapas” gala. They include Ripert;  Tom Colicchio  from “Top
Chef”; Aldea chef and owner  George Mendes , a one-Michelin-star
chef who debuts on Bravo’s “Top Chef Masters” this month;
England-born gastro-pub queen  April Bloomfield  of The Spotted
Pig; and A Voce’s  Missy Robbins , who made Food & Wine magazine’s
2010 list of the best new chefs in the U.S.  Ticket sales and additional donations will help Groove
raise about $200,000.  “Having Eric and Tom at the event gives us clout and
validity,” Groove executive director Abby McCreath said by
phone. “People now come for the food even if they don’t know
the organization.”  Farmers in Portugal  Mendes was named last week to Food and Wine magazine’s 2011
list of  best new chefs . On “Top Chef Masters,” he’s competing
for a $100,000 prize that would go to  Charity Water , a nonprofit
that provides clean water in impoverished countries.  The son of Portuguese immigrant farmers who struggled to
make a living as factory workers after moving to  Connecticut ,
Mendes said he connected to Groove’s mission to teach dance to
disadvantaged girls who can’t afford lessons.  “I came from very, very humble beginnings,” Mendes said.
“Groove With Me is putting girls into a tap class, a safe
haven, so a program like that hits home. You see the people
you’re helping, and that makes it all the more worthwhile.”  (Groove with Me’s “Tap and Tapas” fundraiser is tonight
at 450 W. 31st St., Studio 450, in Manhattan from 6:30 to 9.
Information:  http://www.groovewithme.org/NewsEvents.htm )  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 