-- 
Best Currency Forecasters See Weak Dollar as QE2 End Looms

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-04-11T14:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/best-currency-forecasters-say-dollar-weakness-to-persist-as-fed-stimulates.html
The most-accurate currency
strategists see no recovery for the dollar in coming months as
the Federal Reserve delays raising interest rates after the end
of its $600 billion asset-purchase program in June.  Wells Fargo & Co ., the top forecaster for the second
straight quarter, and No. 2 St. George Bank Ltd., say America’s
currency will be little changed through June as the Fed lags
behind central banks boosting rates. Schneider Foreign Exchange
Ltd., Societe Generale SA and Bank of Nova Scotia, the next
three analysts during the six quarters ended March 31 as
measured in data compiled by Bloomberg, say the dollar will keep
falling after its weakest start to a year since 2008.  “The currency of just about any central bank that has been
willing to contemplate an interest-rate hike in this environment
has performed strongly as money flowed to higher yield assets,”
said Kit Juckes, London-based head of foreign-exchange research
at  Societe Generale . “The U.S. would like to keep interest
rates as low as possible for as long as it can.”  While diverging central banks may stop the dollar from
appreciating from a 16-month low, the policies are helping the
U.S. recover from the biggest downturn since the Great
Depression as the Fed begins to drain some of the more than $2
trillion of stimulus it pumped into the economy. U.S. exports
have risen each month since August to a record $167.7 billion in
January, Commerce Department data show.  Helping Obama  Fed policy has also helped keep borrowing costs on 10-year
Treasury notes below a two-decade average of 5.22 percent for
the entirety of President Barack Obama’s term, helping the U.S.
fund a deficit the Congressional Budget Office projects will be
in excess of $1 trillion for a third consecutive year. Obama and
congressional leaders agreed on April 8 to cut about $38 billion
of federal spending to avert a partial government shutdown with
less than two hours to spare.  Treasuries due in one-to-three years yield about 0.78
percentage point less on average than the rest of the global
market for government bonds of similar maturity, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show. There was no difference in the
yields a year ago. In that period, IntercontinentalExchange
Inc.’s U.S. Dollar Index fell 7.5 percent and was trading at
74.953 as of 9:56 a.m. in  New York .  “We have to get past this period of very easy monetary
policy from the  Federal Reserve , but then we feel that the
dollar is going to make a comeback against the euro and yen,”
said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at Wells Fargo
in New York. Low expectations for any rise in rates also means
there’s more room for a shift in perception that may benefit the
dollar at the conclusion of quantitative easing, he said.  Higher Rates  The dollar dropped 1.7 percent last week to $1.4483 per
euro, and strengthened 0.8 percent to 84.76 yen as the European
Central Bank boosted its benchmark rate on April 7 to 1.25
percent from 1 percent, and ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet
signaled more increases may be on the way. The greenback traded
at $1.4449 and 84.62 yen today.  Brazil, Chile and Colombia have raised rates twice this
year while Peru has lifted them by 25 basis points every month
in 2011. Sweden, Hungary, Poland,  China , India, Indonesia and
Taiwan also increased borrowing costs in 2011, with the U.K.
predicted to join them, according to Bloomberg surveys.  The median estimate of more than 70 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg is for the Fed to keep its target rate in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent through year-end.  Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto predicts the dollar will end
this year at $1.45 per euro, and Schneider sees the U.S.
currency at $1.42. Wells Fargo predicts an advance to $1.40 at
the end of June and $1.34 by year-end, while  St. George 
forecasts $1.38 at the end of December. Societe Generale says it
will slide to $1.50. The median of 44 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg is for the greenback to climb 6.3 percent to $1.36.  Dollar Bulls  Statements by central bankers have encouraged dollar bulls.  Fed Bank Presidents  Thomas Hoenig , Jeffrey Lacker,  Charles Plosser  and  James Bullard  have signaled optimism about the U.S.,
with St. Louis Fed President Bullard saying the central bank may
be able to cut about $100 billion from its $600 bond-buying
plan. The Federal Open Market Committee has reiterated rates
will be kept at “exceptionally low levels” for an “extended
period” for the past 25 months.  Futures traders have trimmed holdings on the dollar’s
decline over the last month, data from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference in the
number of wagers by hedge funds and other large speculators on a
drop in the dollar compared with those on a gain reached 405,267
last month, the most since the data began in 2003.  Repeat Performance  Strategists are betting the currency market won’t repeat
its performance following the end of the first round of Fed bond
purchases, or quantitative easing, in March 2010. Back then, the
Dollar Index posted a two-month, 10 percent rally to a 15-month
high. The index tracks the currency against the yen, euro,
pound, Swiss franc, Canadian dollar and Swedish krona.  That rally was underpinned by a flight to safety as
 Europe ’s debt crisis erupted, resulting in a bailout of  Greece .
Europe’s leaders last month beefed up an aid fund for nations
that can no longer fund themselves.  Spanish 10-year bonds have rallied relative to benchmark
German bunds this year, indicating the risk of contagion has
diminished after Ireland and Portugal also requested aid. The
yield spread narrowed to 1.78 percentage points last week from a
euro-era record of 2.98 percentage points on Nov. 30.  Euro Surge  Europe’s unified currency gained 3.5 percent in the first
three months of this year against a basket of currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, the best first
quarter performance since the shared currency was introduced in
1999. The euro advanced last week even as Portugal said it
needed rescuing as well.  “Even though there will be times that the euro shakes on
the back of sovereign concerns, overall at this point the
framework is in place to support Europe,” said  Camilla Sutton ,
chief currency strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto.  The ECB’s primary mandate is containing inflation, while
the Fed must also promote full employment. The U.S. central
bank’s preferred measure of inflation was 0.9 percent in
February. Consumer prices that month rose 2.4 percent in the
euro region and 4.4 percent in the U.K., both of which target
about 2 percent.  U.S. Unemployment  Policy makers may avoid raising rates even if U.S.
inflation accelerates as long as unemployment remains elevated,
according to  Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at Schneider
Foreign Exchange. The Labor Department said April 1 that the
jobless rate was 8.8 percent in March, compared with 4.6 percent
the last time the central bank boosted benchmark borrowing costs
in mid-2006.  While weakening, the dollar remains the world’s reserve
currency. The dollar’s share of foreign reserves held steady in
2010, ending at 61.4 percent, according to the  International
Monetary Fund  in  Washington . The dollar was involved in 85
percent of currency trades from April 2007 to April 2010,
compared with 90 percent in the three years through 2001, data
compiled by the Bank for International Settlements in Basel,
Switzerland show.  China, the largest investor in U.S. government debt after
the Fed, has increased its  Treasury holdings  by 30 percent to
$1.154 trillion in January from a year earlier, helping the U.S
fund its fiscal deficit and keep  interest rates  at a record low.
 Japan ’s Treasury holdings have climbed 16 percent to $885.9
billion over the same period.  ‘Structural Decline’  The dollar’s decline has supported the  U.S. economy , with
the trade deficit 30 percent smaller than before the financial
crisis in August 2008. The economy may expand 3.1 percent this
year, compared with 2.2 percent for the euro area, 1.8 percent
for the U.K., 0.8 percent for Japan and 2.8 percent for Canada,
according to Barclays Capital.  “The Fed will be quite late in raising rates,” said Besa Deda, chief economist at St. George, a unit of Westpac Banking
Corp. “I’m not looking for a lot of dollar strength as I still
think the  U.S. dollar  is in a structural long-term decline.”  Bennenbroek was the best forecaster for the second-straight
quarter, helping Wells Fargo beat 51 firms across eight currency
pairs with a 4.61 percent average margin of error, even as his
call for a stronger greenback failed to materialize, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The firm’s margin in the survey
ended Dec. 31, 2010, was 4.97.  Survey Methodology  Wells Fargo was followed by Sydney-based St. George at 4.79
percent; London-based Schneider at 4.86 percent; Paris-based
Societe Generale at 4.93 percent; and Toronto-based Bank of Nova
Scotia at 5.11 percent.  The firms were compared based on estimates at the end of
each quarter for the close of the next, starting with the fourth
quarter of 2009. One annual pick which was made at the end of
March 2010 for exchange rates as of March 31, 2011, was also
included. All estimates were weighted equally.  Only firms with at least four forecasts for a particular
currency pair were ranked, and only those that qualified in at
least five of eight pairs were included in the ranking of best
overall predictors. In all, 51 firms submitted enough forecasts
to be ranked in at least one currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 