-- 
BHP Douses Speculation of $48.5 Billion Woodside Takeover

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-04-11T16:39:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/bhp-says-not-aware-of-basis-for-market-speculation-on-woodside.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, doused speculation it plans to buy  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s stake in  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  and make a
A$46 billion ($48.5 billion) takeover.  BHP “is not aware of any basis for the market
speculation” linking it to Woodside, the Melbourne-based
company said in a statement. The  Sunday Times  reported yesterday
that BHP is in talks with Shell, which is being advised by UBS
AG.  Woodside’s shares surged as much as 7.6 percent today in
Sydney before paring gains to 1.9 percent after the BHP
statement. The suggestion of a bid triggered Western Australia
Premier  Colin Barnett  to say he would oppose any deal, a decade
after the nation blocked Shell’s attempt to buy all of the
Perth-based company.  “We got rising share prices driven by market speculation,
that’s all we got,” said  Lucinda Chan , division director and
head of Asian business at Macquarie Private Wealth in Sydney.
“Oil is a big story at the moment, so everybody wants a piece
of the pie.”  Woodside rose to A$48.16 by the 4:10 p.m. close of Sydney
trading after reaching A$50.85, the highest price since October
2009. BHP climbed as much as 2.6 percent to a record 2,653.5
pence in London trading and was up 1.8 percent at 2,631.5 pence
at the 4:30 p.m. close. BHP earlier gained 3.7 percent to
A$49.55 on the Australian stock exchange.  Woodside Chief Executive Officer Don Voelte said he had no
knowledge of any potential takeover bid from BHP.  ‘We Can’t Hide’  “I find it fascinating -- with continuous disclosure laws
in  Australia , we can’t hide this stuff,” Voelte told reporters
when asked about the speculation. “If a serious proposal came
in, we’d have to immediately take it to the marketplace.”  Woodside continues to talk with Shell about how  Europe ’s
largest oil company will dispose of the 24 percent it holds in
the Australian gas producer after selling a 10 percent stake in
November, Voelte said at the news conference.  “I’d like to be part of the process,” he said. “We
believe the last sell-down wasn’t the best thing for the rest of
our shareholders. We believe we could have had a more orderly
process.’”  The cost of protecting BHP’s debt from default pared
earlier increases. Its credit-default swaps were trading 5 basis
points higher at 74 basis points as of 5:21 p.m. in Sydney,
according to Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. They had
earlier risen as much as 10 basis points. Contracts on Woodside
dropped 7 basis points to 100 as of 5:21 p.m. in Sydney, ANZ
prices show.  ‘Australian Face’  “Woodside must remain an independent, Australian-owned,
Perth-headquartered petroleum company,” Barnett told delegates
at a conference. “If Woodside were taken over by a major
international company, you would lose that Australian face.”  Still, Barnett said he wouldn’t object to BHP buying a
stake in Woodside, saying BHP late last year “informally”
talked to him about its potential interest in Woodside.  Voelte said Barnett’s remarks on the bid speculation were
“his own” and declined to comment on them.  Opposition from regulators and investors has led BHP to
abandon bids for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. and Rio Tinto
Group, as well as a planned iron-ore venture with Rio, costing
the company at least $800 million since Chief Executive Officer
 Marius Kloppers  was appointed in May 2007.  A A$46 billion bid would represent a 23 percent premium to
Woodside’s value, in line with the average premium paid for oil
and gas assets worldwide in deals announced in the past 12
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Good Asset’  “My view is it’s dilutive on a valuation basis,” said Rob
Bishop, who helps manage the equivalent of $3 billion including
BHP shares at Investors Mutual Ltd. in Sydney. “But it’s a good
asset, and if you look out five years, it would probably work
out to be a good acquisition.”  Speculation that Shell is seeking to sell its 24 percent
stake in Woodside was sparked in November last year, when the
company sold about a third of its then-34 percent holding for
$3.35 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said at the time that
Shell “will increasingly focus our investment in Australia
through direct interests in assets and joint ventures, rather
than indirect stakes.”  BHP would swap some of Woodside’s assets, including the
Sunrise natural-gas field, for Shell’s holding, the Sunday Times
said, citing people it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  