-- 
Blackstone, Square Mile Complete Purchase of Mortgages From FDIC

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-04-11T17:57:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/blackstone-square-mile-complete-purchase-of-385-million-in-hotel-loans.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and real estate
investment firm Square Mile Capital Management LLC completed the
purchase of $385 million of hotel mortgages from the U.S.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  The mortgages are backed by 45 lodging properties and were
held by Silverton Bank N.A., New York-based Square Mile said in
a statement. The Atlanta-based bank was seized and shut by the
FDIC in 2009.  The economic recovery is boosting hotel sales in the
Americas, which are likely to jump as much as 25 percent this
year, Jones Lang LaSalle’s hotel investment-services unit said
on Jan. 4. Revenue per available room, or revpar, in the top 25
U.S. markets rose to $68.89 in the first two months of 2011 from
$62.90 a year earlier, according to  Smith Travel Research Inc. 
of Hendersonville,  Tennessee .  “Hotels represent a very attractive investment opportunity
because they’ve seen such a sharp decline,” Jonathan Gray,
senior managing director and co-head of real estate at  New York- 
based Blackstone, said at a conference in November. “We’ve been
deploying a lot of capital in this area.”  The majority of the loans in the Silverton portfolio, which
will be serviced by Square Mile, “are performing with all debt
obligations being met by their owners,” the company said in
today’s statement. Square Mile and Blackstone didn’t disclose
the price they paid for the portfolio.  The purchase is Square Mile’s second acquisition of
Silverton Bank hotel loans seized by the FDIC, the closely held
property investor said. In May 2010, it bought a 40 percent
stake in a Silverton portfolio backed by 57 lodging properties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  