-- 
Boar Ragu, Fun Staff Lure Italian-Cuisine Fans to Ilia: Review

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-04-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/boar-ragu-fun-staff-lure-fans-of-italian-cuisine-to-ilia-richard-vines.html
Restaurants need great food or real
personality to stand out for the right reasons in  London .  Ilia has both.  The chef at this new Italian establishment in South
Kensington is Omar Agostini, 35. He was born in the Abruzzo
region, near  Rome , and has spent much of his career working with
French chefs, including  Alain Ducasse  and, more recently, Helene Darroze, from whose London restaurant he joined Ilia.  His cooking is skillful, yet restrained, allowing the
excellent ingredients to speak for themselves. That’s as opposed
to the ventriloquist approach to cooking, where the chef’s voice
is to be heard loudly in every dish.  The front of house is run by Umberto Scomparin, the kind of
maitre d’ who is probably capable of making a few enemies as
well as plenty of friends. He’s loquacious and opinionated, and
I would cross London to be entertained by anyone so capable of
bringing operatic color to the serious business of hospitality.  Ilia -- on the site of the old Papillon -- is owned by
Soren Jessen, the Dane who also owns 1 Lombard Street in the
City. The look is a mix of Art Deco and clean Nordic design,
with stylish light fittings and chairs that are comfortable and
functional. It’s elegant, without a hint of ostentation.  The menu may be confusing if you like to progress through a
meal in a linear fashion from antipasti to dessert. More than 50
options are listed on a large sheet, with the wines on the back
and the desserts on a separate piece of paper. The soups are
halfway down on the far right, below the pasta.  Fennel Salad  Sit me down with a cold Italian Chardonnay, a plate of San
Daniele ham and regional cheeses, and I’m more than happy to
take the time to digest the menu, starting with a tartare of red
prawns with lemon and orange at 16 pounds ($26), fried
anchovies, and, perhaps, liver crostini with fennel salad.  Pappardelle with wild-boar ragu already has become my usual
pick, though you can just as easily appreciate the quality of
the pasta in a simple dish of linguine with basil pesto. While
the fish dishes change daily -- this is one place where it’s
worth having your conversation interrupted to hear the specials
-- meat eaters would do well not to miss the braised lamb shank
with chickpeas.  One of my guests, not in the first (or even second) flush
of youth, has described this as one of the dishes of his
lifetime. OK, we had made our way through the wine list by this
stage, but he’s still talking about the richness of the flavor
and the tenderness of the lamb. Other meat options include
sirloin with foie gras, and roasted pork belly with broccoli and
almonds. Veal tripe with chickpeas is a side dish at 7 pounds.  Wine List  The all-Italian wine list starts at about 30 pounds and
ascends quickly. There was much to excite my wine-loving guests
but the choice is limited if you’re on a budget, which you
probably won’t be if you choose to dine out in South Kensington.
I wish Italian restaurants were more democratic in this regard,
though I admit I’ve had little luck with budget wines from
 Italy . (On the rare occasions I stray from Champagne in my local
Waitrose supermarket, it’s generally toward Portuguese wines for
value.)  Ilia, which seats 60 in the main dining room, is
understated in appearance and that also may be your first
impression of the dishes. The singing and dancing only start
when the food reaches your tongue. By that time, Scomparin may
be skipping across the restaurant humming an aria. If you like a
restaurant with personality, you need look no further.  Ilia, 95 Draycott Avenue, London, SW3 3AD. Information:
+44-20-7225-2555 or click on  http://www.ilia-london.com .  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 50 pounds a head for the food.  Sound level? Starts below 70 decibels. Buzzier later.  Inside tip? Don’t argue with the maitre d’.  Special feature? The maitre d’.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes, it’s elegant and sophisticated.  Rating? ***  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  65-70: Office noise.  70-75: Starbucks.  75-80: London street.  80-85: Alarm clock at closest range.  85-90: Passing bus.  85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 