-- 
BOJ Cuts Economic View of Seven of Nine Regions After Quake

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-04-11T10:38:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/boj-cuts-economic-view-of-seven-of-nine-regions-after-quake-2-.html
The  Bank of Japan  cut its economic
assessment of seven of the country’s nine regions after a record
earthquake and a tsunami devastated the northeastern region.  “Cautious views about the economy have become widespread
in many regions” after last month’s disaster, the central bank
said today in its quarterly  Sakura Report , the equivalent of the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s Beige Book. It said that all regions
reported that the quake affected production and seven reported
weaker  consumer spending .  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said earlier today the world’s
third-largest economy is facing “strong downward pressure” and
the central bank stands ready to take “appropriate policy
action” if needed. The March 11 temblor caused a nuclear crisis
north of  Tokyo  and disrupted power and supply chains, prompting
companies including Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. to
cut production at home and abroad.  The Tohoku region in the northeast where the disaster
damage was highest suffered “significant” economic damage,
“with impairment of the social infrastructure as well as
production and business facilities,” the report said.  The Kanto-Koshinetsu region, which includes Tokyo, and the
Tokai area, where Toyota has its headquarter, both reported they
were in a “severe condition, mainly due to a sharp decline in
production following the earthquake,” the central bank said.  Regional Upgrades  The central bank kept unchanged its view of the Kinki
region in western Japan, and upgraded its economic evaluation of
Shikoku in the west, while saying the latter region’s economy
will likely face downward pressure in the short term after the
quake.  Kazuo Fukuda, head of the central bank’s branch in Sendai,
said that companies in inland areas that weren’t affected by the
tsunami are rebuilding “rapidly” as electricity and water
supplies are restored and roads repaired. Most major auto and
electronics parts makers are located in inland areas and supply
constraints will be eased “sooner or later,” he told reporters
in Tokyo today.  Fukuda’s office supervises Miyagi, Iwate and Fukushima
prefectures, which were hardest hit by the quake. Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s crippled Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant is in
Fukushima. He said radiation in the area makes it difficult to
determine when reconstruction efforts will begin.  BOJ officials from regions that weren’t affected by the
temblor said the disaster has already hurt tourism. Foreigners
have canceled trips to Hokkaido,  Japan ’s northern most island,
as well as Fukuoka in southern Japan, the branch heads said.  Ground to a Halt  There are only a “few visitors from overseas,” according
to Tadashi Uhira, head of the central bank’s Sapporo branch said,
while visits by Chinese and Koreans to Kyushu in southern Japan
“have ground to a halt,” said Yoshiki Tanji, head of the
bank’s Fukuoka branch.  The magnitude-9 earthquake, Japan’s strongest on record,
and tsunami left about 27,500 dead or missing, according to
Japan’s  National Police Agency . The government has estimated the
damage at 25 trillion yen ($295 billion).  The central bank last week unveiled a 1 trillion yen
lending program to help companies in the quake-stricken areas.
It also downgraded its overall assessment of the economy for the
first time since October. The BOJ injected a record amount of
emergency cash into the banking system following the quake and
doubled its asset-buying fund to 10 trillion yen on March 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  