-- 
Bombardier Seeks Rail Contracts in Mideast as Projects Mushroom

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-04-11T10:31:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/bombardier-seeks-rail-contracts-in-mideast-as-projects-mushroom.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , the maker of
trains and regional aircraft, is confident of booking more
public-transport orders in the Middle East and North Africa in
the next five to six years as local governments expand networks.  The Montreal-based company, which makes metros and light-
rail trains, plans to bid for contracts in Abu Dhabi, Dubai,
Qatar and Saudi Arabia, Andre Navarri, the president and chief
operating officer of Bombardier Transportation, said in an
interview in Dubai today. The company aims to book “several
hundreds of millions,” in orders, he said, without specifying.  The unit currently generates 66 percent of its revenue from
 Europe , a ratio that is set to decline over the next years as
emerging markets beef up their rail plans, Navarri said.
Bombardier competes with companies including  Alstom SA (ALO)  and
 Siemens AG (SIE)  in the market for rail transport.  “Clearly Europe will continue to grow and the market will
remain quite strong, but markets in  Asia  and Middle East-North
Africa are growing at a faster pace,” he said. “We will see
higher growth in those regions than in Europe.”  Bombardier plans to bid to supply trains to Abu Dhabi’s
Etihad Rail, the company building the United Arab Emirates $11
billion rail project. Etihad Rail, formerly known as Union
Railway Co., expects contracts for the first phase of its grid
to be issued before the middle of this year, Chief Executive
Officer Richard Bowker said in March.  Qatar, which is hosting the 2022 soccer  World Cup , is
building a city in time for the event and plans to award about
$3 billion worth of contracts for roads and infrastructure in
the next year, Essa Mohammed Ali Kaldari, chief executive
officer of state-owned Lusail Real Estate Development Co., said
Feb. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  