-- 
Braiding, Weaves May Contribute to Hair Loss in Black Women, Study Finds

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-04-11T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/braiding-weaves-may-contribute-to-hair-loss-in-black-women-study-finds.html
Braids and weaves may contribute to
hair loss in African American women, as the traction used to
make the styles can cause swelling and scarring, a study said.  Almost 60 percent of 310 women surveyed for the study had
central  hair loss  with scarring, according to the report in the
 Archives of Dermatology . Among those with the most serious hair
loss, 57 percent wore braids and weaves, the study by
researchers from the  Cleveland Clinic  in  Ohio  found.  Women who had the condition were also more likely to have
 Type 2 diabetes , suggesting that the hair loss may be related to
underlying metabolic irregularities, the researchers said. Among
those with the worst hair loss, 17.6 percent had diabetes and
19.6 percent had skin infections.  “Women with hair loss are deserving of a workup,” said
study author Wilma Bergfeld, a senior dermatologist at the
 Cleveland Clinic . “Let’s think of this as a signal of a
possible underlying medical problem.”  Doctors should test for diabetes in patients who show
central hair loss, Bergfeld said. Early diagnosis and treatment
may improve both a woman’s health and her hair, she said.  Braids and weaves are sometimes used to hide hair loss, the
authors said. It isn’t clear whether chemical relaxers
contribute to the condition, especially because many African
Americans use the relaxers in addition to braiding.  “Many African American women pay hundreds of dollars to
have their hair braided and weaved,” the authors wrote. “The
resulting prolonged traction can produce chronic folliculitis,
which can eventually lead to more scarring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 