-- 
BrightSource Receives $1.6 Billion Guarantee for California Solar Project

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-04-11T21:48:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/brightsource-receives-1-6-billion-guarantee-for-california-solar-project.html
BrightSource Energy Inc., a
California renewable energy company, received funding from
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and a $1.6 billion loan guarantee from the U.S.
Energy Department to build the world’s largest solar-thermal
energy plant.  Google provided $168 million in equity financing for the
392-megawatt Ivanpah project in southern California,
BrightSource said today in a statement.  Google has invested more than $250 million in renewable
energy projects, the  Mountain View , California-based company
 said . The company’s investing unit Google.org participated in a
$115 million financing round that BrightSource closed in 2008.  “We’re helping to deploy the first commercial plant of a
potentially transformative solar technology able to deliver
clean energy at scale,” Rick Needham, Google’s director of
green business operations, said in the statement. “Ivanpah will
be the largest solar-power tower project in the world.”  Bechtel Corp. began construction in October on the Ivanpah
project, which will consist of three separate plants.  BrightSource’s  solar-thermal systems  use mirrors, known as
heliostats, to focus sunlight on boilers mounted atop towers,
generating temperatures of more than 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit
(538 degrees Celsius). The boilers produce steam that is piped
to a power-generating turbine.  Google joins  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , which has already committed
as much as $300 million to the Ivanpah project, according to the
statement.  Alstom SA (ALO) , the third-largest maker of power equipment, has
invested $130 million in Oakland, California-based BrightSource
and is its second-biggest backer.  VantagePoint Venture Partners ,
Draper Fisher Jurvetson, Black River Asset Management LLC, DBL
Investors,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Morgan Stanley have also provided
funding to the solar energy company.  Ivanpah will sell power to utilities Pacific Gas & Electric
Co. and Southern California Edison Co., the Energy Department
said. The agency had previously said it would provide a $1.4
billion guarantee for the project.  Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  