-- 
Graves of Diseased Animals Spur Shift to Evian in S. Korea

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-04-12T06:36:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/buried-animal-carcasses-cause-korean-water-concerns-as-evian-sales-climb.html
More than 1,000 kilometers from
 Tokyo , Seoul is having its very own crisis of faith in tap water,
and radiation isn’t to blame.  In South  Korea , the carcasses of 9.7 million cattle, pigs
and poultry were buried in mass graves across the frozen
countryside after outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease and bird-
flu last winter. That’s raised concerns that pollutants may
enter groundwater now that the soil has thawed, said Jun Kwan
Soo, a professor of environmental engineering at Yeungnam
University.  “Health has to come before everything else regardless of
the expense,” said Lyu Soon Ha, a 63-year-old grandmother who
is buying bottled water from remote Jeju Island because she
fears supplies from the mainland could be contaminated. “I want
to give my grandchildren good water when they come to visit.”  The failure to contain foot-and-mouth disease and properly
dispose of the animals prompted Agriculture Minister Yoo Jeong
Bok to offer his resignation on Jan. 28, while Prime Minister
Kim Hwang Sik on March 24 estimated the financial cost of the
outbreak and cleanup to be about $2.8 billion.  South Korea  is
monitoring more than 4,000 burial sites after repairing 417 to
ensure pollutants are kept out of the water supply, the Central
Disaster and Safety Countermeasures Headquarters said March 31.  Lyu’s concerns are proving a boon for bottled-water
importers including Danone SA and local plumbing suppliers and
chemicals companies.  Jeju Island  Nongshim Co., which holds the exclusive rights to market
the Jeju Samdasoo bottled water favored by Lyu, gained 23
percent since Nov. 29, when the agriculture ministry announced
the first foot-and-mouth cases. Jeju Island is about 100
kilometers south of the Korean peninsula and is free of foot-
and-mouth disease.  About 3,000 tests from wells near animal graves have not
revealed any groundwater contamination, the environment ministry
said in a statement on March 29. Tap water is safe to drink, Lim
Chea Hoan, a spokesman for the ministry, said on April 11.  Lyu said her concern is that warmer weather may change
that. Yeungnam University’s Jun said while work to repair grave
sites has reduced the chances of contamination, risks remain.  The average daily temperature in Andong, the rural district
200 kilometers southeast of  Seoul  where the first case of foot-
and-mouth was reported, was minus 5.5 degrees Celsius in January
at the height of the cull, according to the Korea Meteorological
Administration. The daily average in April is about 12 degrees.  Evian, Volvic  Water Lime, an online retailer of imported bottled water,
said demand for Danone’s Evian and Volvic brands is increasing
as South Koreans question the quality of local supplies.  “We expect many more consumers to drink imported water,”
Water Lime Chief Executive Officer Shin Hyung Chul said March 31.  Evian and Volvic sales may increase as much as 20 percent
by value this year, partly on growing fears about water quality,
said Lim Sun Young, the marketing manager for  Danone (BN)  Waters
Korea, the Paris-based parent’s local unit. She declined to
provide exact figures.  Some graves were dug near rivers and on mountain slopes,
and typically lined with sheets of vinyl that weren’t sealed at
the seams, Lee Byoung Guan, Deputy Director of the National
Veterinary Research & Quarantine Service, said by telephone on
March 31. In the worst cases, animals were buried alive, he said.  “The disease spread so fast beyond our control that some
local governments scrambled to kill and bury the livestock in a
hurry, not always following the rules,” said Lee.  Tokyo Water  In Tokyo, concerns about radiation contamination in tap
water from a crippled nuclear power plant prompted Coca-Cola Co.
to run its bottled water plants in  Japan  24 hours a day to meet
demand. Levels of iodine-131 found in Tokyo’s tap water on March
22 and March 23 exceeded the recommended limit for infants.  Shares of South Korean plumbing suppliers Gentro Co. and
Nuvotec Co. rose 80 percent and 56 percent respectively since
Nov. 29, partly on speculation the cleanup would require new
tanks, drainage pipes and other equipment for the sites.  Park Yang Ju, an analyst with Daishin Securities Co. in
Seoul, said stocks that rose sharply such as Gentro and Nuvotec
may not sustain gains unless sales meet the speculation.  While concerns linger about the effectiveness of the cleanup,
the alert level for foot-and-mouth disease itself was lowered
today to “caution” from “warning,” indicating it is under
control, the agriculture ministry said in a statement.  Repair Work  Gentro has won work rebuilding burial sites and expects
more contracts, Park Kwang Ho, the Seoul-based company’s general
manager for planning, said on April 1. Nuvotec also forecasts
higher sales, said Lim Ki Tae, a deputy general manager of the
company’s administration team.  Woongjin Chemical Co., a fabrics manufacturer that also
makes membranes for water filters, and  Kolon Corp. (002020) , with
investments in water purification, may rise on concern about
water pollution, Park Jae Chul, an analyst with Mirae Asset
Securities Co. in Seoul, said by phone on April 1.  The outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in South Korea, the
worst reported in the country, coincided with the return of
bird-flu viruses in poultry.  Prices for agricultural, dairy and fisheries goods in South
Korea increased almost 15 percent in March while inflation
accelerated to a 29-month high and breached the central bank’s
target range for a third month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  