-- 
Canada Conservatives Deny Auditor General's Report Says G-8 Funds Misused

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-11T20:40:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/canada-conservatives-deny-auditor-general-s-report-says-g-8-funds-misused.html
Canada ’s  Conservative Party  denied
a  Canadian press  article that said a draft report by Auditor
General Sheila Fraser found the government misused funds hosting
last year’s Group of Eight leaders’ summit.  “The report has changed considerably” from the draft
cited by Canadian Press, and “inflammatory” language was
removed, Conservative House Leader  John Baird  told reporters in
Ottawa today.  “I have seen the next draft of that report,” Baird said.
“I can’t say what’s in it, but I can say that the phrase
‘Parliament was misinformed’ isn’t contained in the next draft
of the report because, in fact, that isn’t what happened.”
Baird joined opposition leaders in asking for the paper’s
release ahead of this week’s televised debates in the May 2
election campaign.  Fraser  said  she can’t release a copy of her report, citing
federal law that allows publication only when Parliament is
sitting. She added, “I strongly caution the public to wait
until our final report,” in a statement posted on her office’s
website.  Canadian Press earlier reported Fraser’s office found the
government misinformed Parliament to win approval for a C$50-
million ($52 million) fund for infrastructure spending connected
to the G-8 summit. Opposition parties  have said  the money was
wasted on projects unrelated to the summit in a district north
of Toronto held by Industry Minister Tony Clement.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper called an election last month
after the Speaker of the House of Commons found the government
in contempt for withholding the cost of some spending plans,
prompting the opposition to pass a non-confidence motion.
Liberal Leader  Michael Ignatieff  suggested he will press Harper
about the report in a televised leaders’ debate tomorrow night.  Public Money  “He has got to explain to Canadians how he could have so
scandalously abused public money, and so scandalously misled
Parliament,” Ignatieff told reporters today in Ottawa.  Canadian Press said it was shown a Jan. 13 draft of part of
the auditor general’s report by “a supporter of an opposition
party.”  Opposition parties have long cited a C$1 billion bill for a
one-day meeting in the Muskoka region north of Toronto, followed
by one in Toronto the next day, as excessive. Group of 20
leaders on June 27 in Toronto endorsed targets to cut deficits
and agreed to pursue higher  capital requirements  for banks once
their economic recoveries take root.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 