-- 
CANADA DAYBOOK: Commodity Strength; Election Campaign Continues

-- B y   P a u l   B a d e r t s c h e r
-- 
2011-04-11T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/canada-daybook-commodity-strength-election-campaign-continues.html
Canada ’s currency and main  stock
index  continued to strengthen because of gains in commodity
prices. Canada’s federal election campaign begins its third
week.  WHAT TO WATCH: *Campaigning for the May 2 election continues
with the four major party leaders preparing for the English-
language televised debate tomorrow. Conservative Prime Minister
Stephen Harper, who continues to lead in public opinion polls,
released his party’s election platform on April 8, promising to
eliminate the country’s deficit in 2014, a year earlier than
previously forecast. He campaigns in Ottawa today. Opposition
Liberal leader  Michael Ignatieff  is in Kingston, Ontario.  ECONOMY:
*There are no major releases scheduled ahead of the Bank of
Canada’s interest-rate announcement tomorrow. All 25 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predict the central bank will leave
its policy interest rate at 1 percent.  EVENTS:
*Executives from companies including  Paramount Resources Ltd. (POU) ,
Baytex Energy Corp. and Nuvista Energy Ltd. are scheduled to
address Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s Energy and
Infrastructure Conference starting at 8 a.m. in Toronto.
* Yukon-Nevada Gold Corp. (YNG) , a gold producer with operations in the
U.S. and Canada, is scheduled to release fourth-quarter
financial results in Vancouver at 6 p.m. New York time.  MARKETS:
*The S&P/TSX rose 0.7 percent to 14,208.43, completing a fourth-
straight weekly gain.
*Yields on two-year Government of Canada bonds rose one basis
point to 1.90 percent April 8 in Toronto, the highest since Feb.
17.
*The Canadian dollar strengthened to 95.62 cents per U.S. dollar
at 4:30 p.m. on April 8 from 95.82 cents April 7. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0458.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Badertscher in Ottawa at 
 pbadertscher@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 