-- 
Canada Natural Gas Gains as Cooler Weather in U.S. Boosts Demand

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-04-11T18:25:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/canada-natural-gas-gains-as-cooler-weather-in-u-s-boosts-demand.html
Canadian natural gas prices rose
amid speculation that cooler-than-normal weather in the northern
U.S. will boost furnace use.  Demand for heat in the Midwest will exceed normal by 25
percent for the next week, according to Belton, Missouri-based
Weather Derivatives. Temperatures in  Chicago  will dip as low as
28 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 2 Celsius) April 16, about 12
degrees below normal, said AccuWeather Inc., a State College,
Pennsylvania-based forecaster.  “It’s enough to generate some impressive heating demand
for this time of year,” said Travis Hartman, a meteorologist
and energy manager with MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland . “With that we’ll see some increased residential
energy consumption to keep the houses warm.”  The U.S. Midwest, Northeast and Northwest are the largest
consuming regions for Canada’s gas exports.  Gas at the Alliance Pipeline delivery point near Chicago
rose for the first time in a week, gaining 6.09 cents to $4.1071
per million British thermal units on the  Intercontinental
Exchange . Alliance is an express line that can carry about 1.5
billion cubic feet a day to the Midwest from western Canada.  At the Kingsgate point on the border of  Idaho  and British
Columbia, gas rose 0.46 cent to $3.9362 per million Btu on the
exchange. At Malin,  Oregon , where Canadian gas is traded for
California markets, gas was up 2.7 cents to $4.0504.  Alberta  Gas  Alberta gas for May delivery rose 2.5 cents to C$3.31 per
gigajoule ($3.28 per million British thermal units) as of 1:55
p.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in  Canada 
and the U.S., and is priced on TransCanada’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for May delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was up 6.4 cents to $4.105 per million Btu.  Volume on  TransCanada Corp.’s  Alberta system, which
collects the output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.8
billion cubic feet as of 12:30 p.m. in New York, about 421
million above target.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.58 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.44 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 837 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.68 billion cubic feet today, about 67 percent of its
capacity of 2.5 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to  Vancouver  and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.96
billion cubic feet at 12:50 p.m. High linepack prompted Spectra
to order shippers not to add more gas to the system than their
contracts allow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 