-- 
Capital Dynamics Sees Renewable Energy Growth After Japan's Nuclear Crisis

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-04-11T01:38:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/capital-dynamics-sees-renewable-energy-growth-after-japan-s-nuclear-crisis.html
Capital Dynamics Ltd. , a Swiss
private equity firm with more than $20 billion in assets,
expects demand for alternative energy investments to grow after
 Japan ’s earthquake led to the worst nuclear disaster since 1986.  Demand for renewable energy sources may increase in Japan,
where the industry has been dominated by Tokyo Electric Power
Co., providing opportunities for independent power producers,
said Capital Dynamics Chief Executive Officer Thomas Kubr. The
accident may also lead to a regulatory system that would give
“sufficient support” for alternative energies, he said.  Policymakers worldwide are reevaluating their commitment to
nuclear power, a carbon-free generation source, after the
magnitude-9 temblor and tsunami on March 11 crippled Tokyo
Electric’s nuclear plant in Fukushima. Investment in so-called
clean energy, including wind, solar and biofuels, totaled $243
billion last year, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “Very clearly, the Fukushima issue will cause a major
shift in thinking about nuclear power all over the world,” Kubr
said last week in an interview in  Tokyo  where he was on a
business trip. “What that really means is that for clean energy
infrastructure, there will be bigger demand and will require
more focus on that type of investing.”  Capital Dynamics runs clean energy funds that focus on
infrastructure projects with expected cash returns of 15 percent
to 20 percent, managing director Karl Olsoni said in an
interview in December, declining to provide details of existing
funds including assets managed and investments.  Less Polluting  The company, which hasn’t yet invested in clean energy
projects in Japan, may start allocating money earlier than it
planned because of the disaster, Kazushige Kobayashi, managing
director of the firm’s Tokyo office, said in the same interview.  More than  27,000  people are dead or missing after the quake
and tsunami. The nuclear disaster is rated 5, the same degree of
severity assigned to the Three Mile Island accident near
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , in 1979. The world’s worst nuclear
accident was the level 7 disaster at Chernobyl, Ukraine, in 1986.  China, India and Britain are among countries that have said
they would review what happened in Japan before moving forward
with new nuclear power stations favored over traditional coal
power because they pollute less.  In the U.S., nuclear power, together with solar and wind,
is among the energy options in President Barack Obama’s plan to
require that 80 percent of U.S. electricity comes from low-
polluting sources by 2035.  Asia  Expansion  Capital Dynamics has hired a compliance and regulatory
officer since opening its Tokyo office in November, bringing the
number of employees to three. The firm plans to open an office
in Beijing in the next few months and another one elsewhere in
 China  by the end of the year as part of an expansion in Asia,
said Kubr, who is based in Zug,  Switzerland .  During his visit to Japan, Kubr met with institutional
investors including banks and insurers that are saying that
“business is stable and they have not stopped investment after
the earthquake,” Kobayashi said. The only exception was the
casualty insurers that are assessing the damage, though the
impact would be a temporary one, he said.  “In a sense, it’s not big damage as far as investments are
concerned,” Kobayashi said. “They are cautious, but they have
not changed their plans.”  Capital Dynamics, which has been doing business in Japan
for five years, won its first mandates from local institutional
investors this year, according to Kubr. To meet demand, the firm
is exploring a Japan-focused fund of funds and raising dedicated
funds from local investors, he added.  “Japan is a long-term journey, but if you’re committed to
the country the reward will be there,” Kubr said. “In a time
like this, we don’t change our plans. We are committed to Japan
and the operation here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 