-- 
Capmark Judge to Decide If Creditors Can Sue Goldman Units

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-04-11T16:46:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/capmark-judge-to-decide-if-creditors-can-sue-goldman-sachs-units-over-loan.html
The judge overseeing Capmark
Financial Group Inc.’s bankruptcy will consider allowing
creditors to sue  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  units for at least
$96 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Christopher Sontchi today rejected
Goldman Sachs’s claim that the allegations against it were
resolved when Capmark settled a larger potential lawsuit related
to a $1.5 billion Capmark loan.  Creditors of Capmark want permission to sue Goldman Sachs,
arguing units of the bank were insiders who wrongly used their
position to collect at least $96 million from Capmark. That
money should be returned and given to lower-ranking creditors,
they said in a court filing.  A lawsuit would allow creditors to collect “at least
$96 million” from Goldman Sachs affiliates, said the official
committee of unsecured creditors in court papers filed in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  Sontchi didn’t say when he would decide whether creditors
have presented enough evidence to justify allowing a lawsuit to
go forward.  Last year, Sontchi gave Capmark, based in Horsham,
 Pennsylvania , permission to settle allegations that a
$1.5 billion loan made about five months before Capmark filed
bankruptcy in 2009 was a fraud on creditors because it wrongly
boosted the repayment priority of Goldman Sachs and other
lenders.  Settlement  Under that settlement, Capmark paid New York-based Goldman
Sachs and the other lenders about $835 million, less than the
full value of the loan.  Capmark filed bankruptcy on Oct. 25, 2009, blaming falling
property values and a drop in lending.  KKR, Goldman Sachs, Dune Capital Management LP and Five
Mile Capital Partners LLC bought 78 percent of Capmark, then
called GMAC Commercial Mortgage, in 2006 for $1.5 billion in
cash and the repayment of $7.3 billion of debt, before General
Motors Corp. sold a 51 percent stake in the rest of its finance
business, GMAC LLC.  While in bankruptcy, the company sold its loan-servicing
unit to  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc . and  Leucadia
National Corp. (LUK)  in a deal valued at $468 million.  The case is In re Capmark Financial Group Inc., 09-13684,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 