-- 
Cephalon, Merck, National Trust, A&P: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-04-11T11:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/cephalon-merck-national-trust-a-p-intellectual-property.html
Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  won a court order
preventing generic-drug makers from selling low-cost versions of
its muscle relaxant  Amrix  until a judge rules on a patent
dispute over the product.  Generic versions could have entered the market as soon as
April 17. U.S. District Judge Sue Robinson in Wilmington,
 Delaware , said April 8 that she wasn’t sure she would be able to
rule on the case by that date.  “It is the court’s intention to issue its findings of fact
and conclusions of law in short order, but not necessarily by
April 17,” Robinson wrote in court papers.  The consolidated case relates in part to a lawsuit filed in
Delaware in January 2009 by Frazer, Pennsylvania-based Cephalon
against  Impax Laboratories Inc. (IPXL)  of Hayward,  California . Cephalon
alleges infringement of its 2008 patent 7,387,793 for the drug,
known chemically as cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride. That
individual case was settled last year.  “We’re pleased with the judge’s ruling that prevents
generic companies from marketing a generic version of Amrix
before the court has fully decided the patent-infringement
lawsuit,” Natalie de Vane, a Cephalon spokeswoman, said in a
phone interview.  Cephalon reported $109.2 million in U.S. Amrix sales last
year.  The combined case is In re Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride
Extended-Release Capsule Patent Litigation, 09-md-2118, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Merck Loses U.K. Appeal With Teva to Reinstate Cosopt Patent  Merck & Co., the second-biggest U.S. drug company, lost a
U.K. court bid to reinstate its European patent for the glaucoma
treatment Cosopt after a successful challenge by  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)   A November 2009 ruling that Merck’s patent lacked novelty
or inventiveness was correct because experts in the field would
have found the development to be obvious, the Court of Appeal
ruled April 8 in  London .  “Merck is disappointed by the Court of Appeal decision,”
 Ron Rogers , a spokesman for the Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-
based company, said in a statement April 8. “We are reviewing
the decision and considering our potential options.”  The U.K. unit of Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva, the
world’s biggest maker of generic drugs, sued three years ago
over claims the patent shouldn’t have been granted after Merck
filed the application in 1992. The case was one of several
lawsuits between the companies in recent years over treatments
for brain cancer, allergies and fungus.  Alcon Sues Watson to Block Generic Vigamox Eye Treatment  Alcon Inc. (ACL) ’s Alcon Pharmaceuticals unit sued  Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  for patent infringement over Vigamox, a
treatment for bacterial eye infections.  The suit, filed Aug. 7 in federal court in Wilmington,
Delaware, was triggered by Watson’s seeking approval from the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration to market a generic version of
the drug.  The product is covered by two patents Alcon claims that
Corona, California-based Watson has infringed. Patent 6,716,830,
issued in April 2004; and 7,671,070, issued in March 2010, both
relate to the use of a drug known as Moxifloxacin in the
treatment of eye conditions.  Alcon, based in Switzerland, asked the court to rule that
Watson infringed the patents and to bar approval of a generic
form of the drug until both patents have expired. The company
also asked attorney fees and litigation costs.  The case is Alcon Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Watson
Laboratories Inc., 1:11-cv-00293-UNA, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  National Trust Sued in Hawaii Over ‘Main Street’ Trademark  The National Trust for Historic Preservation in the U.S. 
was sued by a Hawaiian nonprofit organization that seeks a court
declaration it doesn’t infringe one of the trust’s trademarks.  The  Wailuku Main Street Association Inc . sued in federal
court in Hawaii April 7, asking the court to rule that it wasn’t
infringing the trust’s “Main Street” trademark.  According to court papers, the Wailuku group was formed in
1986, and in 1989 was designated a “graduate” of the trust’s
program. The trust authorized the Wailuku group to function as a
resource center for the County of Maui, the filing said.  For more than 20 years the trust accepted dues from the
Wailuku group “with full knowledge of Wailuku Main Street’s
inclusion of ‘Main Street’ in its name and use in its
activities,” according to court papers.  Until recently, the Wailuku group said it had heard no
objections from the Washington-based trust about the name it
used. Wailuku said its office is, in fact, on Main Street, in
the town of Wailuku.  The trust has now told the Wailuku group it must cease
using “Main Street” in its name and in connection with
commercial district revitalization activities, according to the
complaint.  The trust communicated with community leaders and others
that the Wailuku group is barred from using “Main Street” in
its name, the Hawaiian organization said.  It asked the court to declare that the trust has no right
to interfere with the use of “Main Street” and for an order
barring the trust from asserting that its use of the term
infringed. It also asked for attorney fees and litigation costs.  The membership-funded trust hasn’t been served with a
complaint, its general counsel, Paul W. Edmondson, said in an
e-mailed statement. He said his organization isn’t able to
comment until it can review the claims made by the plaintiffs.  The Wailuku group is represented by  Paul Maki  of Honolulu.  The case is Wailuku Main Street Association Inc., 1:11-cv-
00222-AKC-RLP, U.S. District Court, District of Hawaii.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Six States Have Half of Corporate Piracy, Software Group Says  Almost half the corporate software piracy in the U.S.
occurs in six states, according to the  Business Software
Alliance .  California, Texas, Florida,  New York , Illinois and
 Michigan , are the source of 49.3 percent of the reports the BSA
receives about unlicensed software, according to a statement
from the Washington-based industry group.  In 2009, 20 percent of software used by business in the
U.S. was pirated, BSA said in its statement. The commercial
value of such pirated software was almost $8.4 billion.  Companies in the manufacturing and distribution sectors are
most likely to use pirated software, BSA said.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  A&P Settles Suit With Royal Ahold’s Stop & Shop Over VP Hire  Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. (GAP) , the 152-year-old bankrupt
grocery store operator, settled a lawsuit against Royal Ahold
NV’s Stop & Shop Supermarket unit for hiring its second-most-
senior operations executive after he agreed not to work for a
competitor for 18 months.  Lawyers in the case said they settled the suit in court
April 8, according to the docket. Terms weren’t disclosed.  A&P sued Stop & Shop and Frank R. Vitale, the former vice
president of operations, April 4 in federal court in Brooklyn,
New York. The company accused Vitale of disclosing trade secrets
and “key elements” of its restructuring strategy to its rival.
It sought $1 million in compensatory damages and $1 million in
punitive damages from Stop & Shop. Vitale resigned from A&P Feb.
14, according to the complaint.  A&P, based in Montvale, New Jersey, filed for bankruptcy in
December after failing to turn around its business amid
increased competition from wholesale clubs and drugstores. It
operates supermarkets under names including Waldbaum’s, Food
Emporium and Pathmark.  Arlene Putterman, a Stop & Shop spokeswoman, declined to
comment. A message left on A&P’s media-relations line wasn’t
immediately returned.  The case is  Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. (GAPTQ)  v. Stop & Shop
Supermarket Co., 11-cv-1641, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of New York (Brooklyn). A&P’s bankruptcy case is In re
Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co., 10-24549, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (White Plains).  IP Moves  Wilson Sonsini Loses IP Teams to Latham, Arnold & Porter  Latham & Watkins LLP hired six IP specialists from Palo
Alto, California-based Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC, the
Los Angeles-based firm said in a statement.  The new hires are Roger J. Chin, Richard G. Frenkel, Julie
M. Holloway, Terry Kearney, Michael A. Ladra and Ron E. Shulman.  In February,  Washington ’s Arnold & Porter LLP hired James
A. DiBoise, Michael A. Berta and Tracy Tosh Lane away from
Wilson Sonsini.  All nine are IP litigators.  Chin , who has handled cases for clients in the life
sciences industry involving drugs, medical devices and
biotechnology, has appeared in federal district courts and
before the Washington-based appeals court that handles patent
disputes.  He has an undergraduate degree from Cornell University and
received both a law degree and a medical degree simultaneously
from  Yale University .  Frenkel  has represented clients in the telecommunications,
semiconductors, information technology, life sciences, and
Internet and digital media industries. Before he went into
private practice, he was the director of intellectual property
for consumer and emerging technologies at  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  of
 San Jose , California.  He has an undergraduate degree from the University of
Michigan, a master’s degree in science from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and a law degree from Loyola Law School
of  Los Angeles .  Holloway  has represented clients in district court and
before the U.S. International Trade Commission. Her clients have
come from the information-technology industry, particularly
electronics, software and mechanics.  She has an undergraduate degree from the University of
California at Santa Cruz, a master’s degree from George
Washington University and a law degree from the University of
California, Berkeley School of Law.  Kearney  represents both generic and branded drug
companies, medical diagnostics and device companies and
combinatorial and analytical chemistry companies. He has also
handled IP disputes for clients in the electronic design
automation, chip fabrication, design and packaging, software and
Internet-related applications industries.  He has an undergraduate degree from the University of  San
Diego , a master’s degree from the University of Hawaii and a law
degree from Georgetown University.  Ladra  has litigated more than 50 patent cases, and handled
at least a dozen before the U.S. International Trade Commission.
He has represented clients in the information-technology field.  He has an undergraduate degree from Princeton University
and a law degree from University of California, Hastings College
of the Law.  Shulman  has handled more than 90 patent cases in the areas
of information technology and life sciences, principally
defending companies accused of infringement.  He has an undergraduate degree from Amherst College and a
law degree from Rutgers University.  According to an Arnold & Porter  statement , the three Wilson
Sonsini lawyers it hired joined the firm in February.  DiBoise  has handled disputes involving patents, trade
secrets, copyrights, trademarks and contracts. Among the
technologies at issue in his practice are gene replication,
wireless network protocols, drug development and biologics,
satellite signal encryption, semiconductor wafer manufacturing
and software copyright-infringement claims.  He has an undergraduate degree from the University of
Virginia and a law degree from  Stanford University .  Berta  has done patent and trade-secret litigation for
clients in the microprocessor and flash-memory architecture, Web
software, pharmaceutical, medical-device and consumer-product
industries.  He has an undergraduate degree from the University of
California at San Diego and a law degree from Georgetown.  Lane  has represented clients in trade-secret, copyright,
unfair-competition and complex-contract actions.  She has an undergraduate degree from Vanderbilt University
and a law degree from the University of Michigan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 