-- 
ICBC Plans to Open Branch in Brazil After U.S. Bank Takeover

-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-04-12T13:32:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/china-s-icbc-files-request-to-open-a-bank-in-brazil.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s biggest lender by market value, plans to
open a bank in  Brazil , extending its reach to Latin America’s
largest economy after expanding in Europe and the U.S.  ICBC intends to set up a full-service bank, ICBC do Brasil
Banco Multiplo SA, in Sao Paulo with initial capital of $100
million, Brazil’s central bank said in a statement. ICBC, based
in Beijing, is seeking Banco Central do Brasil’s approval to
become the second Chinese lender to establish operations after
Bank of  China  Ltd. received authorization to open a branch in
Brazil in February 2009.  The announcement came as Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff
visited China, with plans to pressure government officials to
buy more of the South American nation’s goods. ICBC agreed to
buy 80 percent of Bank of East  Asia  Ltd.’ U.S. unit for $140
million in January, the first Chinese takeover of a U.S. retail
bank, and added branches in Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam, Milan
and Madrid the same month.  “This is part of a national ‘go-out’ strategy to deploy
investment and capital in countries or regions where there are
rich resources or booming trade and commercial activities by
Chinese enterprises,” said Zhang Yidong, a Shanghai-based
analyst at Industrial Securities Co.  Overseas Branches  Chairman Jiang Jianqing has spent more than $6 billion on
acquisitions in regions spanning from Asia to  South Africa  and
America over the past two years as he seeks to triple the share
of profit coming from abroad to 10 percent. Operating income
from ICBC’s overseas businesses accounted for 3 percent of its
total at the end of last year, according to its annual report.  ICBC opened 12 overseas branches last year, taking the
total to 203 and extending its reach to 28 countries and
districts. These units had combined assets of $75.7 billion as
of December, an increase of 45 percent from a year earlier, and
their pretax profit rose 37 percent to $1.19 billion.  ICBC has made an offer to buy the Argentine unit of
Standard Bank Group Ltd., Buenos Aires-based newspaper El
Cronista reported March 21.  The U.S. deal, signed during Chinese President Hu Jintao’s
visit to the U.S., would give ICBC 10 branches in  California  and
three in  New York  after approval by regulators in both
countries.  A call to ICBC’s New York branch after business hours was
referred to the investor relations department in Beijing, where
no one answered the phone.  Rousseff-Hu Meeting  The governments of Brazil and China welcome the
establishment of branches of each other’s financial
institutions, said a joint statement signed by Rousseff and Hu
after their meeting today, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported. Rousseff will attend the summit of the so-called BRIC
nations, or Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and China, on April 14.  China imported $30.8 billion of goods from Brazil last
year, an increase of 46.6 percent from a year earlier, the
Caixin magazine  reported  on its web site yesterday.  “We want to increase exports of goods and services with
more value, more industrialized goods, and we’ll also sign
agreements in science and technology,” Rousseff said in the
weekly radio program posted on the presidency’s website.  ICBC rose 0.4 percent to 4.61 yuan at the close of trading
in  Shanghai , bringing the gains this year to 8.7 percent. It
shares closed at HK$6.51 in  Hong Kong , down 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Telma Marotto at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net  