-- 
China Money Rate Declines Most in Six Weeks on Maturing Bills

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-11T02:36:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/china-money-rate-declines-most-in-six-weeks-on-maturing-bills.html
China ’s money-market rate declined
the most in more than six weeks on speculation maturing central-
bank bills will help meet demand for cash in the financial
system.  A total of 699 billion yuan ($107 billion) of bills and
 repurchase agreements  will mature this month, including
redemptions of 212 billion yuan this week, according to Guo Caomin, a bond analyst at Industrial Bank Co. in Shanghai. The
central bank added a net 28 billion yuan into the  debt market 
last week, the first injection in five weeks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The bill redemptions will help ease demand for cash in
the financial system,” said Liu Junyu, a bond analyst in
Shenzhen at China Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-largest
lender. “The market speculates the central bank may not
announce new tightening measures after the rate hike last
week.”  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, slid 53 basis points to 1.95 percent as of
9:54 a.m. in  Shanghai . That was the biggest drop since Feb. 24,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  The People’s Bank of China announced an increase in the
benchmark one-year lending rate by a quarter point to 6.31
percent on April 5, raising borrowing costs for a fourth time
since October to contain inflation.  A government report on April 15 will show consumer prices
climbed 5.2 percent from a year earlier in March, compared with
4.9 percent in the previous month, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists. Premier  Wen Jiabao   reiterated  on April 9
the government should prevent an excessively rapid increase in
prices, according to a statement on the State Council’s website.  One-year interest-rate swaps, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined one
basis point to 3.36 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Ven Ram, Sandy Hendry  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 