-- 
China Inflation Is `Somewhat Out of Control’ on Weak Currency, Soros Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-04-11T13:32:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/china-inflation-somewhat-out-of-control-george-soros-says.html
China ’s decision to keep its
currency weak has caused the government to lose control of
inflation and risks fuelling wage-price gains, billionaire
investor  George Soros  said.  While the policy helped insulate China from the financial
crisis in 2008, the world’s second-biggest economy has missed
its chance to allow the yuan to appreciate to tame inflation,
Soros, chairman of Soros Fund Management LLC, said yesterday at
a conference in Bretton Woods,  New Hampshire .  “It would be very advantageous to allow the currency to
appreciate as a way of controlling inflation,” Soros said.
“The authorities missed that opportunity. You now have
inflation somewhat out of control, and causing some serious
danger of wage-price inflation.”  The yuan gained 4.6 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the
past two years, the second-smallest gain of 10 Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, even as economic growth rebounded and
foreign-exchange reserves jumped to a record. Inflation
accelerated to 5.2 percent in March, exceeding government
targets for a ninth month, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The yuan’s gain since April 2009 compares with a 31 percent
advance for the Indonesian rupiah, a 22 percent climb by the
South Korean won and a 21 percent jump by the  Singapore dollar .
Only the  Hong Kong  dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. currency,
has appreciated less than the yuan.  ‘Marginal Role’  China’s currency was little changed at 6.5367 per dollar as
in  Shanghai , trading near a 17-year high. Twelve-month non-
deliverable forwards climbed 0.09 percent to 6.3775 per dollar
in Hong Kong, reflecting bets the yuan will gain about 2.6
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China has resisted pressure from U.S. officials to let the
yuan appreciate more rapidly, rejecting Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner ’s argument that a stronger currency would
make it easier to manage inflation pressures.  “While exchange rates can be an effective tool to contain
inflation in some countries, I don’t think that’s the case for
China,” said Li Cui, chief China economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in Hong Kong. “It’s not so surprising that we are
seeing higher inflation in China as price growth is mainly
driven by strong domestic demand, while imported inflation only
plays a marginal role.”  ‘Critical Question’  China’s economic growth accelerated to 9.8 percent in the
fourth quarter, driven by a pickup in industrial production and
retail sales. The government will report first-quarter economic
data on April 15.  The People’s Bank of China raised  interest rates  four times
and boosted banks’ reserve requirement ratios six times since
the third quarter to help contain inflation. HSBC Holdings Plc
said last week the possibility of another rate increase is
rising. Credit Suisse Group AG forecasts the benchmark one-year
deposit rate, which has risen 1 percentage point to 3.25
percent, will climb another 1.5 percentage points by the end of
the year.  “This cannot continue indefinitely,” Soros said. “There’s
great resistance with the government mechanism to relax the
system which serves the interest in power very well. I find that
the critical question for the future of China.”  A stronger currency would combat inflation by making
foreign goods cheaper in China. The nation reported its first
quarterly trade deficit in seven years yesterday, driven partly
by rising commodity prices. Inbound crude oil shipments rose 12
percent by volume and 39 percent by value, while iron-ore
imports rose 14.4 percent by volume and 82.5 percent by value.  Bretton Woods   Soros, 80, reportedly made $1 billion in a successful bet
in 1992 that Britain would fail to keep its currency in a
European exchange-rate system that pre-dated the euro. Other
successful trades included a bet that the deutsche mark would
rise after the collapse of the Berlin wall and a wager that
Japanese stocks would start to tumble in 1989.  He spoke at a conference sponsored by the Institute for New
Economic Thinking, which Soros helped found and supports.  U.S. and European officials met in Bretton Woods in 1944 to
draw up rules that governed much of the world economy for almost
three decades. Nations agreed to fix exchange rates, establish
the  International Monetary Fund  and start the process of
rebuilding  Europe ’s economy in the aftermath of World War II by
encouraging coordinated economic policies.  The Bretton Woods era ended in 1971, when inflation forced
the U.S. to abandon the dollar’s peg to gold, an anchor of the
system, heralding the era of floating exchange rates. The
Bretton Woods agreement had linked currencies around the world
to the price of gold and restricted their fluctuations versus
the dollar, requiring intervention by participants to comply.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  