-- 
China to Halt Approval of New Aluminum Projects, Group Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-11T08:20:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/china-to-halt-approval-of-new-aluminum-projects-group-says-2-.html
China , the world’s biggest aluminum
producer and consumer, may halt approvals for new smelters to
curb overcapacity, the nation’s largest industry group said.  The  industry ministry  endorsed the plan “in principle”
and rules may be announced in a couple of weeks, Hu Changping,
director of the aluminum department at the China Nonferrous
Metals Industry Association, said today by phone. The plan was
reported today by the China Securities Journal, which cited Vice
Minister Su Bo. Ministry spokesman Wang Lijian declined to
comment.  A ban on new capacity may benefit existing producers of the
metal used in beverage cans and window frames. Production
capacity in China may total 25 million metric tons this year,
while output may reach 20 million, Hu said on March 2.  “Projects under construction shouldn’t be affected,” said
Hu. The Nonferrous Metals Industry Association, which has more
than 1,000 members, advises the government on policy. “We need
to wait until the government documents are issued to see how the
details are finalized.”  Three-month aluminum on the London Metal Exchange gained
9.5 percent this year on output losses in China and sustained
demand. The metal traded at $2,716 per ton at 2:39 p.m. in
 Shanghai  after touching $2,720, the highest level since
September 2008.  Government Concern  “Overcapacity in the aluminum industry has been a concern
for the government in recent years,” Owen Liang, an analyst at
Guotai Junan Securities Co., said today. It consumes lots of
energy and resources, while the government wants to protect the
environment and conserve resources, he said.  Aluminum smelting consumes about 6 percent of China’s total
electricity use, according to data provider Shanghai Metals
Market.  “China has since 2003 issued regulations to rein in excess
aluminum capacity expansion,” said Shen Hui, investor-relation
representative at Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., also called
Chalco. “Still, we continue to see a lot of investments coming
into the industry from local governments.”  About 1.6 million tons of aluminum capacity was shut in the
second half of last year as the government tried to meet an
energy-saving target, researcher CRU International Ltd. said.
About 1 million tons of capacity was restarted and about 200,000
tons may resume soon, CRU said last month.  Benefiting Producers  “The news boosted the shares of producers today, and
aluminum prices may also rise as it helps to curb the surplus,”
said Cai Hongyu, an analyst at China International Capital Corp.
in an e-mailed research note.  Chalco in Shanghai closed 1.7 percent higher at 11.99 yuan,
Jiaozuo Wanfang Aluminum Manufacturing Co. rose 4.5 percent to
22.10 yuan and Yunnan Aluminum Co. added 3.5 percent to 14.10
yuan. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index closed 0.2 percent
lower at 3,022.75.  “The devil will be in the details, and the implementation
will also be an important factor in deciding the real impact in
the long run,” said Liang.  -- Helen Sun , with assistance from Helen Yuan. Editors: Indranil Ghosh,  Matthew Oakley   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  