-- 
Cisco Told to Pay $63.8 Million in Commil Patent Verdict

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   D e n n i s   R o b e r t s o n
-- 
2011-04-11T14:44:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/cisco-told-to-pay-63-8-million-in-commil-patent-verdict-1-.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest
maker of networking equipment, was told by a federal jury to pay
$63.8 million to a  Texas  company for infringing a patent on
wireless-transmission technology.  The April 8 verdict against Cisco was won by closely held
Commil USA LLC of The Woodlands, Texas. The jury in Marshall,
Texas, rejected Cisco’s arguments that it wasn’t infringing the
patent, and set the $63.8 million as a reasonable royalty for
use of the Commil technology.  This is the second trial in the case. Cisco had lost at
trial in May, and the jury awarded $3.7 million. Magistrate
Charles Everingham, who presided over both trials, threw out the
verdict, saying Cisco’s lawyers made inappropriate religious
comments before the jury.  “We know this new award more truly reflects our client’s
significant damages as a result of Cisco’s infringement,” said
Commil lawyer Richard Sayles of Dallas-based Sayles Werbner.
“This verdict further validates Commil’s valuable patented
technology.”  The patent, issued in 2002, covers a way of maintaining
network connections through a series of base stations so a
person with a laptop computer, mobile phone or device with a
wireless-transmission feature such as Bluetooth doesn’t lose the
signal while walking through a building.  “There are nine years left on the patent,” Commil lawyer
Mark Werbner said after the verdict was announced. “We expect
Cisco to respect this verdict. Failing that, we will ask the
court for appropriate relief.”  ‘Grounds for Appeal’  San Jose , California-based Cisco, which reported $10.4
billion in sales during the fiscal quarter ended Jan. 29,
pledged to appeal the verdict.  “We are disappointed by the jury’s verdict, but following
the two trials in this matter, Cisco has unusually strong
grounds for appeal, and we look forward to pursuing them
immediately,” the company said in an e-mail.  The case is Commil USA LLC v. Cisco Systems Inc., 07cv341,
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  