-- 
Cisco Says New Carrier Routers Add Customers Comcast, AT&T

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-04-11T20:22:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/cisco-says-new-carrier-routers-gaining-customers-such-as-at-t.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , under fire from
investors for spreading itself too thin, said a new routing
system is winning customers at a faster pace than the original
model in  2004 .  The CRS-3, which starts at $90,000 and ranges up into the
millions of dollars, has been adopted by Comcast Corp., AT&T
Inc. and about 80 other customers,  San Jose , California-based
Cisco said today in an e-mailed statement. The router helps
phone companies and other service providers move massive amounts
of data and video through networks.  The product represents a bright spot for Cisco at a time
when it’s tinkering with its strategy. The company has vowed to
refocus on key areas after investors bid down the shares over
the past year, erasing about $48 billion in market value. The
new routers, which compete with offerings from  Juniper Networks
Inc. (JNPR) , help deal with the strain of mobile-device users
increasingly surfing the Web and watching video.  “This is what’s needed to scale the Internet,” Suraj
Shetty, a vice president at Cisco, said in an interview. “In
the last 18 to 24 months there has been rapid adoption of high-
quality, premium video coming over the Internet to devices at
your home, whether it’s your iPad, laptop or phone.”  In a 1,500-word e-mail to employees last week, Chief
Executive Officer  John Chambers  depicted an organization that
had lost focus and been slow to make decisions. Cisco, the
world’s largest maker of networking gear, has seen profitability
erode and is struggling to meet sales growth goals. At the same
time, it’s pushing into businesses such as consumer video
gadgets, digital-music storage and home-audio networking.  At an investor conference last week in  San Francisco ,
Chambers said that Cisco’s high-end routers, which direct
 Internet traffic , were in a “very good competitive position.”  Cisco fell 18 cents to $17.47 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have declined 34 percent
in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  