-- 
Citigroup Says Buy All Pemex Bonds on Rebound in Oil Output: Mexico Credit

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-04-11T21:38:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/citigroup-says-buy-all-pemex-bonds-on-rebound-in-oil-output-mexico-credit.html
Citigroup Inc.’s Accival,  Mexico ’s
largest brokerage, is recommending all 28 of Petroleos
Mexicanos’ bonds for the first time as Latin America’s largest
oil producer reverses a six-year decline in crude output.  Dollar notes due in 2035 from Pemex, as the state-owned
company is known, yield 79 basis points more than similar-
maturity Mexican government debt, down from 95 on Jan. 25,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap compares with a
yield difference of 82 basis points for state-run Petroleo
Brasileiro SA and Brazilian  government bonds  due in 2041, down
from 101 over the same period.  Pemex is benefiting from a 21 percent rally in the price of
oil this year as Chief Executive Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel 
predicts the company will boost production to 2.6 million
barrels of crude a day in 2011, the first increase since 2004.
Mexico’s oil export mix is trading at a 31-month high, or 74
percent higher than the government projected price, boosting
demand for Pemex debt, said Arnulfo Rodriguez, the head of
fixed-income research at Accival in Mexico City.  Pemex is addressing one of its “structural problems, the
declining output,” Rodriguez said in a telephone interview.
“There will be capital gains in these bonds. This is the first
time for us that we have all the bonds from a single company as
a ‘buy.’”  The yield on Pemex’s benchmark bonds due in 2021 dropped 15
basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 5.32 percent in the
past two months as growing unrest in the Middle East and North
Africa drove up  oil prices . Crude rose above $113 a barrel on
April 8 for the first time in 30 months.  Oil Output  Pemex is counting on new performance-based contracts with
foreign operators to boost production in older fields and is
also exploring in deep waters in the  Gulf of Mexico . It will
award the first round of such contracts in August.  The company will invest about $23 billion this year to
boost oil production after output fell to 2.576 million barrels
a day in 2010, its sixth consecutive annual drop. It posted its
smallest decline in proven reserves in more than a decade last
year, Pemex said on March 30.  Pemex’s goals for production are supported by its current
reserves,  Carlos Morales , the head of exploration and
production, said on March 30. The company said in a presentation
on its website that it had 13.8 billion barrels of proved oil
reserves at the end of 2010.  “There is demand among investors for Pemex bonds,”
Alejandro Hernandez, who manages the equivalent of $1.2 billion
at Grupo Financiero Interacciones SA in Mexico City, said in a
telephone interview. “Its risks are lower after investments and
higher oil prices.”  Bond Plans  Pemex’s output fell at the fastest pace since World War II
in 2008 because of declines at its Cantarell field, the third-
largest in the world when it was discovered in the 1970s. In the
past seven years, crude production from the company’s largest
oil deposit has fallen 74 percent to 558,041 daily barrels a day
in 2010 from 2.14 million a day in February 2001.  Pemex plans to raise about $8 billion in bonds and loans in
2011, with about 80 percent of that targeted for refinancing,
the company said in a Feb. 28 statement. It may sell about $3
billion of bonds overseas later this year, Suarez Coppel, 51,
said in a March 1 interview.  Pemex is open to selling bonds in dollars as well as other
currencies, depending on market conditions, the company’s press
office said in an e-mail.  The oil producer was the largest issuer of bonds in Latin
America after America Movil SAB last year, selling $8.5 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 2 basis point
to 125 today, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 1 basis points to 98, according to CMA prices in
 New York . Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the
issuer fails to comply with debt agreements.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 11.7496 per dollar today. The
currency is up 5 percent this year.  The rally in Pemex bonds means further gains may be
limited, said Jaime Lazaro, who helps manage 450 billion pesos
($38 billion), including 670 million pesos of Pemex debt, at
BBVA Bancomer SA in Mexico City.  “We believe Pemex bonds are fairly priced,” Lazaro said
in a telephone interview.  Inflation  Accival’s Rodriguez boosted his recommendation on 15 Pemex
bonds to “buy” from “hold” in an April report. He kept a
“buy” rating on 12 other Pemex securities.  Investors should sell Mexico’s fixed-rate peso bonds due in
2024 and buy floating-rate debt sold by Pemex to protect
themselves against the prospect of faster inflation, Rodriguez
said.  The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent peso bonds due in 2024
fell 2 basis points this year to 7.66 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  While Mexico’s inflation rate dropped to near a five-year
low of 3.04 percent in March, the pace of economic growth is
prompting traders to bet that the central bank will boost
benchmark lending rates from 4.5 percent as soon as August. The
economy may expand as much as 5 percent this year after 5.5
percent growth in 2010, the most in a decade, Finance Minister
 Ernesto Cordero  said last month.  The central bank will raise rates by 75 basis points by the
end of the year, according to trading in TIIE, or interbank rate
futures contracts. Mexico is the only major Latin American
country that hasn’t boosted borrowing costs in the past year.  “This way investors will get gains from the falling Pemex
yields, and they will get also protection against the inflation
fears we’re going to see in the second-half of the year,”
Rodriguez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  