-- 
Cocoa Climbs in New York on Ivory Coast Fighting; Coffee Falls

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-04-11T18:47:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/cocoa-climbs-in-new-york-on-ivory-coast-fighting-coffee-falls.html
Cocoa rose to a one-week high on
speculation that a civil war in  Ivory Coast  will continue to
disrupt shipments of the commodity, even after the capture of
former president  Laurent Gbagbo . Coffee declined.  Gbagbo was handed over to forces loyal to president-elect
 Alassane Ouattara , Apollinaire Yapi, a spokesman for Ouattara,
said today from Abidjan. The European Union on April 8 lifted
sanctions on the ports of Abidjan and San Pedro after Ouattara
called for their removal in an attempt to revive the economy.
Ivory Coast is the world’s largest cocoa producer.  “People want clarity on how and when exports will begin,”
said  Hector Galvan , a senior trading adviser at RJO Futures in
Chicago. “People want to be sure that there will be no more
disruptions.”  Cocoa for July delivery rose $43, or 1.4 percent, to settle
at $3,028 a metric ton at 11:58 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York . Prices climbed to $3,079, the highest for a most-active
contract since April 4, before paring gains after reports of
Gbagbo’s capture.  In London, cocoa futures for July delivery climbed 21
pounds, or 1.1 percent, to 1,910 pounds ($3,130) a ton on NYSE
Liffe.  “Whenever the market is more optimistic about a solution,
then the prices will come down quite considerably because supply
is really good,” Michaela Kuhl, an analyst at Commerzbank AG,
said today by telephone from Frankfurt.  Gbagbo has disputed Ouattara’s victory in a Nov. 28
presidential election and refused to step down as president. The
EU sanctions started in January.  Arabica-coffee futures for May delivery fell 0.35 cent, or
0.1 percent, to $2.746 a pound on ICE. Robusta-coffee futures
for July delivery declined $21, or 0.9 percent, to $2,426 a ton
on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 