-- 
Consumer Bureau’s Warren Outlines Accord With State Regulators

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-04-11T19:29:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/consumer-bureau-s-warren-outlines-accord-with-state-regulators.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau being created under the Dodd-Frank Act will
join forces with state attorneys general to maximize protections
against predatory lending and share enforcement costs, Obama
administration special adviser  Elizabeth Warren  said today.  “We want to protect consumers from unlawful acts or
practices,” said Warren, who announced a joint statement of
principles at a National Association of Attorneys General
conference in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “We want to provide
clear rules that improve the marketplace for consumers and
remove unfair competition.”  Warren, 61, has courted the attorneys general as partners
since President  Barack Obama  appointed her to set up the bureau
in September. Under today’s agreement, the regulators will
conduct joint training programs, share information and cooperate
on enforcement “to the fullest extent permitted by the law,”
according to a statement from the U.S. Treasury Department,
which is housing the bureau until it starts work in July.  “I hope the days of playing us off against each other at
the state and federal level are over,” Warren said. “There
should not be daylight between us.”  The consumer bureau will help attorneys general financially
by picking up the costs of preparing enforcement cases, such as
writing legal briefs and hiring expert witnesses, Warren said.
States will also get a budgetary boost from fines and penalties
assessed in enforcement actions, she said.  “We want to be very mindful of our need to be helpful to
the state attorneys general,” Warren said.  Sought Grants  Some state attorneys general had asked Warren whether the
consumer bureau would make grants of federal money available for
state enforcement efforts.  Indiana Attorney General Greg Zoeller said in an interview
that the consumer bureau should not “dictate” exactly how states
use the money because of the administrative costs. “It’s not
just the resources, it’s the strings that come attached to
federal money,” Zoeller said.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul law enacted in July,
calls for the bureau to get a portion of the  Federal Reserve ’s
operating budget amounting to about $500 million annually.  The federal and state regulators will seek “legal remedies
to foster transparency, cooperation, and fairness in the markets
for consumer products or services across state lines, without
regard to corporate forms or charter choice,” Treasury said.
They will also coordinate work on a consumer complaint system,
according to the statement.  “People are hurt every day by unfair financial products,”
North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper said in the Treasury
statement. “Together, we can pose a greater deterrent to
unscrupulous financial services providers,” said Cooper, who is
chairman of the national attorneys general group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 