-- 
Copper Declines as China May Raise Interest Rates, Curbing Metal Demand

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-04-11T18:23:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/copper-erases-gain-as-chinese-imports-stoke-speculation-demand-may-weaken.html
Copper fell in  New York  for the
first time in five sessions on concern that China might raise
 interest rates  further to fight inflation, potentially curbing
metal demand.  Figures for Chinese imports and exports in March released
yesterday beat estimates from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The country’s central bank has increased borrowing costs
four times since early October.  “Chinese data looks much stronger than expected,” said
 Bart Melek , an analyst at TD Securities in Toronto. “There is
now a concern that good economic data is actually bad, as it
will embolden China’s government to raise interest rates much
higher.”  Copper futures for May delivery fell 4.15 cents, or 0.9
percent, to close at $4.46 a pound at 1:19 p.m. on the Comex in
New York. The price gained 5.8 percent in the previous four
sessions.  While  China ’s overseas trade increased overall, imports of
copper and copper products by the world’s biggest metals user
fell 33 percent from a year earlier, customs data showed.  Copper will “face near-term headwinds as higher  oil prices 
potentially translate into a negative demand shock for the
metals, and as these commodities are exposed to supply-chain
problems resulting from the earthquakes in Japan,” Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said today in a report. Goldman is closing its
long position in copper, or bets on higher prices, according to
the report.  Copper for three-month delivery dropped $20, or 0.2
percent, to $9,855 a metric ton ($4.47 a pound) on the London
Metal Exchange.  Aluminum also fell in  London , while nickel, lead and zinc
gained. Tin for three-month delivery on the LME rose 0.8 percent
to $33,300 a ton, after reaching a record $33,600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  