-- 
Czech Miner NWR Sees No Reason for Coking Coal Price to Fall

-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 
2011-04-11T09:05:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/czech-miner-nwr-sees-no-reason-for-coking-coal-price-to-fall-1-.html
New World Resources NV (NWR) , the biggest
Czech producer of coal for steelmakers, said coking coal prices
agreed for second-quarter delivery are a basis for a strong
full-year performance, as there’s no fundamental reason to
expect a significant price decline.  Demand from the automotive industry and a limited supply of
the commodity in central and eastern  Europe  have been driving
prices, Chief Finance Officer Marek Jelinek said in a conference
call with reporters today. Steel capacity use is at or near 100
percent in the region, above the European Union average, he
said.  NWR agreed to deliver coking coal for an average price of
215 euros ($310) per ton, a rise of 35 percent from the previous
quarter, the company said in a statement today. Coke prices rose
19 percent from the previous quarter to 400 euros per ton, it
said.  Coke and coal production and sales are slightly ahead of
the company’s internal budget for the year and results and
pricing achieved for the second quarter provide the basis for a
“very strong” performance in 2011, Jelinek said.  NWR said it’s on track to fulfill its 2011 production and
sales targets. The company will start selling all its coking
coal on a quarterly basis this month, it said in the statement.  The stock was unchanged at 299 koruna as of 9:52 a.m. in
Prague trading.  Thermal Coal  The thermal coal price for 2011 remained unchanged at 71
euros a ton, a 13 percent increase on the 2010 average price,
NWR said.  The company, at present incorporated in Amsterdam, plans to
shift the incorporation to  London . It offered today to swap
shares of the current company for those of the newly created
U.K.-based entity, New World Resources PLC.  “It should also allow FTSE index eligibility, therefore
raising our profile with international investors,” Jelinek
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  