-- 
Czech Inflation Stays Below Target, Favors Record-Low Rates

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-04-11T12:11:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/czech-inflation-holds-below-target-amid-interest-rate-debate-1-.html
Czech inflation slowed in March and
stayed below the central bank’s 2 percent target, adding to
arguments for keeping interest rates record low even after the
 European Central Bank  started monetary tightening last week.  The annual price-growth rate fell to 1.7 percent from 1.8
percent in February, the statistics office in Prague said today.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 12 economists was
for 1.7 percent and the central bank’s forecast was 1.9 percent.  The rate lagged the bank’s forecast because rising prices
of farming products abroad and locally continued to have a
“limited” effect on Czech food prices while regulated prices
grew at a “slightly” slower pace than expected, the central
bank said today. Inflation pressures from the domestic economy
are “not significant,” according to the statement.  “Demand-driven inflation is invisible and the central bank
might not need to rush with raising  interest rates ,”  Michal Brozka , an analyst at Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague said in a
note. “We continue to expect an interest-rate increase in the
third quarter,” though there still is a risk of a policy
tightening earlier, he said.  The Prague-based CNB’s board voted 5-1 to keep the two-week
repurchase rate at 0.75 percent on March 24. The bank has kept
borrowing costs at a record low since May 2010 as the economic
recovery slows. This contrasts with the ECB which raised its
main rate to 1.25 percent on April 7 to stem inflation.  ‘Enough Factors’  The Czech central bank includes euro-area borrowing costs
among the variables in its economic forecasts. There are
differing views among Czech policy makes on inflation risks,
with some board members advocating higher interest rates.  The ECB’s move last week doesn’t change Czech inflation
risks, central bank Governor Miroslav Singer told reporters
today in Prusanky,  Czech Republic .  “I don’t think that anyone on the bank board was surprised
by the move with ECB rates,” Singer said. “It doesn’t change
the risks significantly in any direction.”  Board member  Eva Zamrazilova  voted for a quarter-point
increase in March. Kamil Janacek, who didn’t attend the last
meeting, said on April 6 he “sees enough factors” to justify
an increase at the next meeting on May 5. Vice-Governor Mojmir
Hampl said on April 7 his view on economic developments hasn’t
changed since the March meeting, when he voted for stable rates.  The central bank, which doesn’t publish a policy bias,
 estimates  price growth will match its 2 percent target in the
first quarter of 2012 and accelerate to 2.1 percent in the
following three months. The bank’s latest forecast from February
assumes market interest rates will rise from the end of 2011.  The koruna has appreciated 2.4 percent versus the euro this
year, the third-best performance among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The Czech currency was
unchanged today at 24.422 per euro as of 1:35 p.m. in  Prague .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  