-- 
Deutsche Bank Advice ‘Integrity’ in Doubt, Top Judges Say

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-04-11T17:35:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/deutsche-bank-advice-integrity-in-doubt-german-top-judges-say.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  recommended a
derivative deliberately structured with the odds stacked against
its client, calling into question the “integrity” of the
advice, the country’s highest civil court said in the written
opinion.  The actions of Germany’s biggest bank resulted in a serious
conflict of interest the lender was required to disclose, the
five judges at the Federal Court of Justice wrote in a judgment
outlining their March 22 swap ruling. The bank should have told
its customer that market expectations were that it would lose
80,000 euros ($115,600) on the swap, the court said.  “From the customer’s perspective, the investment advice
appears in a different light if he knows that the market
considers his risk much more negative” than the bank’s, the
judges wrote. “The integrity of that advice is put in doubt
because” Deutsche Bank resells “a predominantly negative risk
the customer only assumed precisely because of that advice.”  Ille Papier Service GmbH  on March 22 won the top court
ruling awarding it 541,074 euros over the swap purchase. The
judgment will influence dozens of disputes Deutsche Bank has
with local governments throughout Germany, community-owned
utilities and companies that claim the lender sold swaps without
adequately advising them. Lawyers will now analyze the written
judgment to assess whether it applies to other products as well.  Specific Product  After a preliminary assessment of the written judgment,
Deutsche Bank assumes it is limited to the specific product at
issue, bank spokesman Christian Streckert said in an e-mailed
statement.  Reiner Hall, the lender’s lawyer, said at the February
hearing in the case a new financial crisis could be triggered if
the court required banks to disclose their profit margins. Such
a ruling could cost the industry “billions of euros,” said
Hall.  “I don’t think this ruling will cause anything like a
financial crisis -- it certainly doesn’t cover all swaps or
derivatives,” said  Matthias Lehmann , a law professor at
 Germany ’s Halle University. “But it does cover all derivatives
that have a similar complex structure with some hidden elements
that are difficult to decipher for the customer.”  Jochen Weck, the lawyer for Ille Papier, said the ruling
finds Deutsche Bank acted intentionally. That opens the door for
many more cases because a statute of limitation that now bars
suits for negligent actions is unlikely to apply, said Weck.  Statute of Limitation  Law professor Lehmann disagreed with Weck’s view. The
applicable statute of limitation won’t change, because that
would require showing that the bank also acted intentionally to
the detriment of the customer, which the judgment doesn’t say,
according to Lehmann.  “The ruling may still boost a lot of new cases. Some
customers, who have settled, may be able to reopen their case,”
said Lehmann. “If they can show they didn’t know about the
market value issue, they can undo the settlement because they
weren’t informed about a significant element of the agreement.”  The judges tried to narrow down the ruling to only apply to
the specific product, according to Andreas Lange, a banking
lawyer at Mayer Brown LLP in  Frankfurt .  While the court confirmed that banks as a rule don’t have
to disclose profits they price into products, it didn’t come up
with a convincing reason for deviating from that principle in
this case.  ‘Risk Structure’  “The judges now say this time it’s different because the
risk structure was adverse to the client,” said Lange. “But
frankly, that is true for each and every product banks sell
because somehow some form of profit is always structured into
the products.”  Deutsche Bank branded the product “CMS Spread Ladder
Swap.” Under its terms, the lender paid its customer 3 percent
interest on 2 million euros for five years. The customer paid
the bank 1.5 percent during the first year and later a variable
rate based in part on the spread between two-year and 10-year
Euribor rates.  The city of Hagen settled a similar suit against Deutsche
Bank in 2009. The city had sought 47 millon euros and received 5
million euros under the settlement.  The case is BGH, XI ZR 33/10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 