-- 
Dollar May Rise Versus Euro on Interest Rate Outlook, UBS Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-04-11T14:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/dollar-may-rise-against-euro-on-interest-rate-outlook-ubs-says-tom-keene.html
The dollar may gain this year as
faster-than-expected growth and inflation in the U.S. force the
 Federal Reserve  to tighten monetary policy, according to UBS AG.  Sentiment towards the dollar, especially among Asian
investors, will improve once the Fed ends its $600 billion
asset-purchase program in June, said Mansoor Mohi-Uddin,
Singapore-based chief currency strategist at UBS AG. He declined
to say when he expects the Fed to start raising  interest rates .
The dollar has fallen 7.3 percent against the euro this year.  “U.S. inflation numbers keep on printing higher,” Mohi-
Uddin said in a radio interview today on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “The way the dollar is now
against the euro, against the Australian dollar, has not priced
in the risk that the Fed can end quantitative easing. It has not
priced in the risk that U.S. policy will lead to stronger growth
in America.”  The euro may decline because the market is expecting more
interest-rate increases by the  European Central Bank  than policy
makers are likely to deliver, Mohi-Uddin said. The central bank
boosted its main refinancing rate on April 7 to 1.25 percent
from 1 percent, and ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled
more increases may be on the way.  “The European Central Bank may go for a couple more rate
hikes this year, but the market is pricing in five rate hikes in
the next 12 months,” said Mohi-Uddin. “We think that’s too
high and that’s why we are cautious about the euro at this level
against the dollar.”  The euro declined 0.3 percent to $1.4447 as of 2:47 p.m. in
London. UBS forecast that the euro will be at $1.30 in the next
12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  