-- 
Drink It Now, Fancy White Wine Lover -- Or Cook With It Later

-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 
2011-04-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/drink-it-now-fancy-white-wine-lover-or-cook-with-it-later.html
I won’t tell you to pour your five-
year-old white wines down the drain. But if you don’t drink them
now, that’s what you might end up doing.  The fact is, 99.9 percent of all white wines in the world
do not improve after a year or two of aging. They are at their
best on release, which may be the spring following the autumn
harvest.  This was brought into focus after tasting a bottle of  2008
La Follette Manchester Ridge Chardonnay  from Mendocino Ridge. At
$48 it is among the pricier California chardonnays; at 15
percent alcohol it is also one of the most potent.  It’s a big wine, well made in the bold California style,
not too much oak. But I felt that, at less than two and a half
years old, it was unlikely to get any better in the bottle.  There may have been some oxidation, or it may be going
through what is called in the trade a “dumb” period, when some
wines hibernate and later flourish.  So while I enjoyed the wine with a grilled red snapper, I
was glad I didn’t have a whole case of it in my cellar.  More
and more with white wines, I’m drinking them as soon as possible
after I buy them.  If a wine store is selling -- always at a discount -- a
white wine more than three years old, you can bet it’s because
it doesn’t sell very well upon release.  $2,000 White  The vast majority of winemakers around the world give
little thought to aging their white wines for more than a few
months or a year in the first place.  I have, of course, had impressive examples of muscadet,
pinot blanc, chardonnay, gewürztraminer, and riesling several
years old. The greatest of all German riesling dessert wines are
aged for many years and can be drunk with delight even decades
later.  One of the white wines I’ve always been amazed by is
Valentini’s trebbiano d’abruzzo, a varietal made in huge bulk by
other producers and disdained by many in  Italy  as nothing but a
workhorse white. Somehow Valentini manages to make his trebbiano
long-lived, and I’ve had bottles a decade old that are still
brilliant.  So, too, connoisseurs and producers of white Burgundies
insist that the very finest, like Puligny-Montrachet, Batard-
Montrachet, and the rare Montrachet itself (which sells for
about $2,000) need at least three and perhaps even ten years of
aging to reach true maturity.  ‘Onion Skin Taste’  I’m skeptical and have no plans to wait that long, even if
I could afford such prices.  The Brits have long exhibited a preference for what they
call an “onion skin taste” of old vintage Champagnes, which
comes from a certain amount of oxidation, which does nothing for
my palate.  I have tasted some fine old vintage Champagnes and applaud
their longevity, but I much prefer younger, vibrant examples
precisely because they are so fresh and blooming with fruit and
acid.  Most people don’t order expensive ancient white wines,
especially in more casual restaurants, like  New York ’s new  Lyon 
bistro, where the best-selling wines are sauvignon blanc and
French chardonnay. “I personally love old Chablis,” says owner
Francois Latapie, “but I don’t have the clientele for it here.”  He continues, “They do like St. Veran, Macon, and Alsatian
riesling, and the vintages I stock are the most recent, 2009 and
soon 2010.”  Younger Vintages  There are, however, fine restaurants that proudly toe the
line for older whites.  “I look for wines that have phenomenon
mineral force, concentration of fruit and can benefit from
aging,” says Ruben Sanz Ramiro, sommelier at New York’s  Veritas 
restaurant, which stocks 3,200 labels and 75,000 bottles, 25
percent of them white. “They become better integrated and
complex aromatically.  “We have old white burgundies and even California
chardonnay going back to the 1970s -- Stony Hill, Chalone, Mount
Eden,” he added. “They are absolutely sound, with extraordinary
acidity that protects the wines over time. In most cases when I
recommend them, our guests are really pleased and surprised.”  You take a chance with every bottle of wine you open --
some might be corked, others oxidized by accident -- which is
why a good wine steward is crucial when ordering expensive wines
in a restaurant.  With whites, youth trumps age most of time. When a waiter
at  Napa & Co.  in  Stamford , CT, recently apologized because the
bottle of Spanish albarino I ordered was a younger vintage than
the one on the list, I just smiled and said, “Even better!
Let’s see how it tastes.”   ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 