-- 
Dynegy Names Harrison, Seneca-Backed Board Member, as CEO

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-04-11T13:38:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/dynegy-names-harrison-seneca-backed-board-member-as-ceo-1-.html
Dynegy Inc. (DYN) , the Houston-based
power producer that warned it may seek  bankruptcy protection 
this year, appointed former rail executive E. Hunter Harrison
interim president and chief executive officer.  Harrison, 66, was among four new board members supported by
Dynegy’s largest shareholders and elected in March after
rejection of two takeover bids for the company, Dynegy said
today in a statement. He replaces David W. Biegler, who took the
interim positions in March after the resignation of CEO Bruce Williamson.  Dynegy said it is seeking a permanent CEO. Harrison was CEO
of  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  from January 2003 to December
2009, according to the statement. Seneca Capital, Dynegy’s
second-largest shareholder, had begun pursuing his election to
the Dynegy board in November.  The company said March 8 it may need to amend or replace
debt terms to avoid default and bankruptcy in the second half of
2011.  “Mr. Harrison brings a connection with the recently
appointed members of the Board of Directors, as well as
significant business experience and a strong interest in moving
the company forward,” Biegler said in today’s statement.  Harrison owned 500,000 Dynegy shares as of March 9,
according to filings.  Dynegy fell 1 cent to $5.72 at 9:37 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  Dynegy reiterated that Biegler, chairman Patricia Hammick
and three other board members won’t stand for re-election at a
scheduled June 15 shareholder meeting.  Williamson resigned as chairman and CEO after shareholders
failed to approve takeover offers by Blackstone Group LP and New
York billionaire  Carl Icahn , now the company’s largest
shareholder with 15 percent of outstanding shares, according to
Bloomberg Data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  