-- 
Heating Oil Falls on Lower IMF Growth Forecast, Japan Aftershock

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-04-11T19:46:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/heating-oil-falls-on-lower-imf-growth-forecast-japan-aftershock.html
Heating oil dropped from a 32-month
high as the  International Monetary Fund  lowered its forecast for
economic growth in the U.S., boosting speculation that fuel
demand may decline.  Futures slipped as much as 2.1 percent as the IMF predicted
higher  oil prices  and the slow pace of job gains will restrain
the recovery. Prices also sank as Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
stricken nuclear station withstood a 6.6-magnitude earthquake.  The lower IMF forecast and Japan’s aftershock “put a fear
factor in the market, bringing products down from last week’s
highs,” said  Dan Flynn , a trader at PFGBest, a Chicago-based
brokerage firm.  Heating oil for May delivery fell 6.72 cents, or 2 percent,
to settle at $3.2525 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  The  U.S. economy  will expand 2.8 percent this year, down
from the 3 percent projected in January, the IMF said today.  Global gross domestic product will grow 4.4 percent in
2011, matching the previous estimate, according to the
Washington-based lender’s World Economic Outlook report.
“Recovery in the labor market remains lackluster,” the IMF
said in the report.  Buildings shook in Tokyo when a temblor hit about 60
kilometers (37 miles) from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant at 5:16
p.m. local time. Emergency pumps cooling three of its six
reactors were halted for 50 minutes after a temporary  power
outage , the government said.  Libya Conflict  Reports of a cease-fire plan agreed to by Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi  also caused a drop in prices from earlier highs,
said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply at Truman
Arnold Cos. in Texarkana, Texas.  The African Union said in an e-mailed statement today that
Muammar Qaddafi agreed to end hostilities immediately and hold
talks “with the view to adopting and implementing the political
reforms necessary for the elimination of the causes of the
current crisis.”  Gasoline for May delivery slipped 6.02 cents, or 1.9
percent, to settle at $3.2005 a gallon on the exchange.  Regular gasoline at the pump increased 0.9 cent to $3.77 a
gallon yesterday, AAA said on its website. That’s the highest
price since Sept. 20, 2008.  Libyan rebels said the plan won’t be acceptable if it
allows the ruler and his sons to retain power.  “The line of thinking is that the cease-fire raises hopes
that Libyan production would return to the market more
quickly,” said Knight.  Price Risk  Crude oil price risk is becoming “more symmetric,”
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts  David Greely  and Jeffrey
Currie said in a research report.  “Not only are there now nascent signs of oil demand
destruction in the United States, but also record speculative
length in the oil market, elections in Nigeria and a potential
cease-fire in Libya that has begun to offset some of the upside
risk owing to contagion, leaving price risk more neutral at
current levels,” the analysts said.  Crude oil for May delivery sank $2.87 to $109.92 a barrel
on the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 