-- 
ECB Should Give Economy Time to Adjust to Higher Rates, IMF Says

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-04-11T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/ecb-should-give-economy-time-to-adjust-to-higher-rates-imf-says.html
The  European Central Bank  shouldn’t
rush to tighten monetary policy and must give the euro area
banking system time to repair itself without choking the
economic recovery, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “In the euro area, remaining financial fragilities could
hold back growth, justifying a slower pace of normalization” of
 interest rates , the Washington-based fund said in its World
Economic Outlook published today. “Moreover, the ECB’s
extraordinary measures will need to be removed only gradually as
systemic uncertainty recedes.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  left the door open for
further interest-rate increases to tame inflation after raising
borrowing costs for the first time in almost three years on
April 7. The ECB is balancing the need for tighter policy in
countries like  Germany , whose economy is booming, against the
risk that higher rates could exacerbate the sovereign debt
crisis afflicting euro-area nations such as Greece and Ireland.  Policy makers will follow last week’s increase with 25
basis-point steps every three months, taking the benchmark rate
to 1.5 percent in July and 1.75 percent in October, according to
the median of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The
pattern will continue in 2012 with increases every quarter,
bringing the key rate to 2.75 percent before the end of next
year, the survey shows.  Even though policy makers have said they are keen to
“normalize” policy, officials kept the main planks of their
emergency responses to the recession in place. The central bank
is still providing banks with unlimited liquidity and has
maintained its bond-purchase program.  Sovereign Crisis  While “significant progress was made” by heads of states
in tackling  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis in March, “important
issues remain to be addressed,” the fund said.  “In the meantime, the ECB should continue to ensure
orderly conditions in funding markets and help prevent excessive
volatility in sovereign debt markets,” the report said.  Inflation breached the ECB’s 2 percent limit in December
and accelerated to 2.6 percent last month, the fastest pace in
more than two years, increasing pressure on policy makers to
lift borrowing costs from the record of 1 percent.  The IMF increased its growth prediction for the euro region
by 0.1 percentage point for this year and next, now forecasting
1.6 percent in 2011 and 1.8 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  