-- 
Medvedev to Trade Energy for Investment on China Trip

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-04-12T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/medvedev-to-trade-energy-for-economic-investment-on-china-trip.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev  will seek
to use Russia’s energy might to win Chinese investment in his
drive to modernize the nation’s economy as he travels to China
for the annual summit of BRICS nations.  Medvedev will meet with the leaders of  Brazil , India, China
and  South Africa  on April 14 in Sanya, China’s southernmost
city, attend the Boao Forum for  Asia ’s annual conference and
visit Hong Kong, according to the Kremlin. He also plans
bilateral talks with Chinese President  Hu Jintao .  “He will try to make China a source of investment and
technology, not just a vacuum cleaner for Russian resources,”
said  Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst at the Council on Foreign and
Defense Policy in Moscow.  China, the world’s biggest energy consumer, became  Russia ’s
top trading partner last year, with trade jumping 50 percent to
$59 billion, according to the Russian Economy Ministry. Energy
accounted for more than 55 percent of exports to China. Medvedev
expects trade to reach $100 billion in the near future, he said
in an interview with  China Central Television  released today.  While relations are at their highest point, the two
countries should focus on new areas of investment and create
joint ventures, Medvedev told CCTV. The president sought China’s
help in modernizing the economy when he visited Beijing in
September. He brought home mostly energy deals.  Gas Talks  Russia promised to supply China with all the natural gas it
needs for economic development under an agreement signed in
September, Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  said at the time.
Deliveries may start in 2015 as  China  seeks to triple use of the
fuel by 2020. The price is still being negotiated.  Russia agreed in 2009 to supply China with oil for 20 years
in return for $25 billion of loans to state oil company OAO
Rosneft and national oil pipeline monopoly OAO Transneft. China
is seeking to increase shipments to 30 million metric tons a
year from the agreed 15 million tons.  China has also asked Russia to build two more 1,000-
megawatt nuclear reactors at the Tianwan complex near Shanghai.
ZAO Atomstoyexport, Russia’s reactor builder, completed
construction of two units at the site in 2007.  Rosneft Chief Executive Officer Eduard Khudainatov and
Sergei Kiriyenko, head of Rosatom Corp., the nation’s nuclear
holding company, will accompany Medvedev on this week’s trip,
said  Sergei Prikhodko , the president’s foreign policy aide.
Khudainatov won’t attend the meeting between Hu and Medvedev.  ‘Colossal Potential’  More than 60 Russian business leaders will attend the BRICS
summit to look for projects that will diversify economic ties,
said Sergei Sanakoyev, head of the Russian-Chinese Center of
Trade and Economic Cooperation in Moscow.  “We have colossal potential for industrial cooperation in
the sphere of technology, construction and aerospace that is not
being used,” Sanakoyev said by phone. “Russia needs to use its
natural resources to trade in for industrial cooperation.”  Medvedev travels to  Hong Kong  on April 16, the first visit
by a Russian president to the special administrative region. He
will meet with Chief Executive Donald Tsang and business leaders
to discuss investment in Russia and plans to create a global
financial center in Moscow, Prikhodko said.  Bartering Gas  Chinese investment in Russia, including the loans to  oil
companies , reached almost $28 billion last year, while Russia
invested $150 million in China last year. Equipment and
machinery accounted for 8 percent of Russia’s exports to China
and 50 percent of China’s shipments to Russia, according to the
Economy Ministry in Moscow.  Arms exports to China, once Russia’s largest client, have
all but dried up. Mikhail Dmitriev, chairman of the Federal
Commission on Military and Technical Cooperation with foreign
countries, will accompany Medvedev.  China stopped buying Russian fighter planes in 2005 and in
2007  India  became the biggest purchaser of Russian weapons, said
 Konstantin Makiyenko , deputy head of the Moscow-based Center for
the Analysis of Strategies and Technologies.  “The Chinese will want to prioritize the long-outstanding
gas talks,” said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib
Financial Corp. in Moscow. “Medvedev will try to barter that
energy deal with increased trade and investment links with
China.”  UN Veto  China and Russia, keen on using multipolar relations to
weaken U.S. dominance, will also discuss regional issues, he
said. The two countries, which have a veto over United Nations
Security Council resolutions, abstained from last month’s vote
authorizing North Atlantic Treaty Organization airstrikes that
enabled Libyan rebels to halt a government offensive.  “Kremlin strategists will try to persuade China that the
actions by the U.S. and its NATO allies create an opportunity
for both Russia and China to be seen as neutral brokers,”
Weafer said.  Medvedev has made improving ties with China a priority,
choosing the country as his first destination outside the former
 Soviet Union  in 2008 and pushing for more engagement with China
through the BRICS and  Shanghai  Cooperation Organization, a
security alliance, Lukyanov said.  “If he stays as president for the next six years it will
be the main priority in Russia’s foreign policy,” he said.
“China in many respects is becoming a key global power and a
lot will depend on how it develops, including Russia’s position
in the world.”  Speaking at the  World Economic Forum ’s annual meeting in
January, Medvedev said he wants the economy to grow as much as
10 percent annually within five years, in line with other BRIC
nations. Russia’s gross domestic product will expand 4.2 percent
this year, the Economy Ministry estimates.  “Russia’s economic future lies to the east,” said  Roland Nash , chief investment strategist at Verno Capital, a Moscow
hedge fund that manages about $140 million. Medvedev “will want
to focus on building economic and financial ties away from the
slow-growth, structurally hobbled western world and toward fast
growth, dynamic economies, first among them China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  