-- 
Egyptian Economic Growth to Slow ‘Significantly’ After Uprising, IMF Says

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-04-11T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/egyptian-economic-growth-will-slow-significantly-after-revolt-imf-says.html
Economic growth in  Egypt  will slow
“significantly” and political unrest spreading across the
Middle East and North  Africa  will hurt other economies in the
region this year, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Egypt’s gross domestic product will expand about 1 percent,
the IMF said in its World Economic Outlook report released
today, cutting the forecast from 5 percent after the uprising
that ousted President Hosni Mubarak in February. The economy of
Tunisia, where Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was driven from office a
month earlier, will grow 1.3 percent this year, the IMF said.
Average growth across the region is projected at 4.1 percent.  “Political discontent, high unemployment, and rising food
prices are causing social unrest in a number of countries, which
is likely to dampen their short-term growth,” the fund said.
“Spreading social unrest, rising sovereign risk premiums, and
elevated commodity import prices will constrain growth prospects
in several MENA economies.”  Almost four months after a 26-year-old vegetable seller set
himself on fire in despair over  Tunisia ’s social, political and
economic conditions, protesters in a half-dozen countries are
trying to sweep away regimes that have ruled for decades. While
Tunisia and Egypt are the only two nations to have toppled their
leaders,  Libya  is embroiled in a civil conflict and unrest in
Syria, Bahrain and Yemen has left hundreds dead and sent crude
prices soaring 23 percent this year.  Libya Excluded  The IMF excluded Libya from its projections due to
political uncertainty after almost two months of fighting
between troops loyal to President  Muammar Qaddafi  and rebels in
the North African country, holder of Africa’s largest oil
reserves.  The region’s crude exporters have better economic prospects
as prices rise and governments attempting to placate protesters
spend more of their oil revenue, the IMF said, forecasting 5
percent growth among those nations. Qatar, holder of the world’s
third-largest natural gas reserves, is forecast to grow by 20
percent this year and  Saudi Arabia , with the world’s largest oil
reserves, by 7.5 percent.  “Higher commodity prices and external demand are boosting
production and exports in many economies in the region,” the
IMF said. “Government spending programs are continuing to
foster recovery in many oil-exporting economies.”  Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah, seeking to prevent the
regional unrest from spreading into his absolute monarchy,
announced new spending plans on March 18 including $67 billion
on housing.  Economic growth in  Iran  is expected to stall this year as
subsidies for energy and other products are phased out, a
measure that will yield benefits in the medium term, the IMF
said. The plan will push Iranian consumer prices up 22.5 percent
this year, giving it the highest inflation rate in a region
where the average will be 10 percent, it said. The IMF forecasts
inflation of 11.5 percent in Egypt and 6 percent in  Syria .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 