-- 
Lehman $61 Billion Plan ‘Unlikely’ to Succeed, Goldman Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-04-11T22:21:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/lehman-61-billion-plan-unlikely-to-succeed-goldman-silver-point-say.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s $61
billion payment plan is “highly unlikely” to win approval and
contains “gifts” to bondholders that other creditors haven’t
approved, said a group of derivatives creditors including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Silver Point Capital LP.  The group has said it may file a rival plan and wants the
judge to consider it concurrently with Lehman’s proposal.
Lehman, which is set to ask U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck on
June 28 to allow creditors to vote on its proposal, asked Peck
last week to give “primacy” to its proposal in order to “best
serve the interests of all stakeholders,” delaying
consideration of other plans.  Lehman is trying to deal with mounting opposition to the
way it will apportion among creditors the $61 billion it aims to
raise as it liquidates assets. It amended its plan in January,
taking money from derivatives creditors to pay bondholders more
after a group including hedge fund Paulson & Co. filed a rival
proposal. Now it must deal with challenges from Goldman Sachs,
 Silver Point  and other derivatives creditors.  The Paulson group of bondholders, including the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System , has challenged Lehman’s
plans through much of its bankruptcy. On April 9, it said the
defunct firm, which is participating through an affiliate in a
bid for hotels owned by  Innkeepers USA Trust , is taking a risk
that its own stake in the deal might be “virtually valueless.”  Second Unit  The deal, which aims to allow a second Lehman unit to
recover most of a $220 million mortgage to Innkeepers, is part
of a multibillion-dollar conflict between Lehman and its
affiliates as the parent solicits support for its plan to pay
Creditors, the group said.  Asking for Lehman’s plan to be heard first,  Harvey Miller ,
Lehman’s lead bankruptcy lawyer, said last week in a filing that
the Paulson-Calpers plan “presents the parochial interests of
13 entities that collectively purport to hold claims of
approximately $20.2 billion.”  Lehman also is fielding objections from creditors on how it
will share information with them as they try to understand how
Lehman was run and how creditors should be paid.  Today, the former investment bank asked Peck to reject any
remaining objections to revised rules it had set up to circulate
documents.  Otherwise, “Left to their own devices, scores of
creditors, all represented by their own separate attorneys,
would serve multitudes of voluminous and duplicative document
requests,” it said. The process might take years, and Lehman
would incur “thousands of attorney hours” responding to such
individual requests,” it said.  Fees  Lehman paid its lead bankruptcy law firm, Weil, Gotshal &
Manges LLP, $279.9 million in the 29 ½ months through February,
according to a regulatory filing. It foots the bill for an
official creditors committee as part of those outlays.  Also today, FTI Consulting Inc., a financial adviser to the
Lehman creditors committee, asked a judge to approve fees of
$12.7 million for work done from October through January, plus
expenses of $186,352. According to a court filing, FTI has so
far asked bankrupt Lehman for a total of $52.2 million in fees.  Lehman filed for bankruptcy in 2008 with debt of $613
billion, making it the largest bankruptcy ever in the U.S.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  