-- 
Hochtief Profit May Fall 50% This Year as Leighton Sees Loss, Sells Shares

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r ,   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-04-11T10:33:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/leighton-to-sell-800-million-of-stock-after-forecasting-loss.html
Hochtief AG (HOT) ,  Germany ’s largest
publicly traded builder, said pretax profit may fall 50 percent
this year after its Australian unit predicted a loss and said it
would sell stock. Hochtief shares fell the most in two years.  The company will take up its full allotment in  Leighton
Holdings Ltd. (LEI) ’s A$757 million ($800 million) share sale, it said
in a statement today. The unit will sell new shares at A$22.50
apiece through a 1-for-9 entitlement offer, a 22 percent
discount to the last traded price of A$28.94 on April 6,
according to a separate statement.  The share sale comes amid a hostile takeover of Hochtief by
 Spain ’s Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA and the
resignation of Herbert Luetkestratkoetter, replaced as chief
executive officer by Frank Stieler. Over the last five years,
Hochtief has earned an average of almost three-quarters of its
pretax profit from the Asia-Pacific region, where Leighton is
the main contributor.  “The writedowns and capital raising look to have been
necessities,” said Will Seddon, who helps manage $350 million
at White Funds Management Pty in Sydney.  David Stewart , who
became CEO of Leighton on Jan. 1, “will have taken the
opportunity to clear the decks,” he said.  Hochtief plunged as much as 10 percent to 61.67 euros, the
sharpest drop since April 20, 2009, in Frankfurt trading. That
comes on top of a 9.5 percent drop in the previous two trading
days. The stock traded at 62.85 euros at 11:57 a.m., paring the
company’s market value to 4.84 billion euros ($7 billion).  Stieler Takes Over  Hochtief, which owns 54 percent of Leighton, said yesterday
that Stieler will take the top job following the company’s
annual shareholder meeting on May 12. Madrid-based ACS, which
plans to raise its stake in the German company to more than
50 percent, said today that Stieler is an “excellent
candidate” to lead the company.  Luetkestratkoetter will receive a severance package of
4.08 million euros and will take on an advisory role to the
company, the executive said on a conference call.  “I am a professional and if I know one thing it’s this:
The office of an executive board chairman is one where you must
have the full trust of big investors,” said Luetkestratkoetter,
who led opposition to the takeover by ACS. “I have watched over
the interests of this company, all stakeholders, shareholders
and employees. You can’t necessarily satisfy everyone.”  Future Forecasts  The Essen, Germany-based builder had been expecting a
pretax profit of about 1 billion euros this year, according to a 
March 23 statement . The figure last year was 756.6 million
euros. Net income this year will probably rise, the company said
today, without elaborating. Earnings forecasts for 2012 and 2013
remain the same, it said.  Leighton, Australia’s biggest builder, predicted a net loss
of A$427 million in the year ending June as it takes A$907
million in writebacks and impairments after delays and cost
overruns at projects including the Brisbane  Airport Link  road
and a  desalination plant  in Victoria state.  Hochtief CEO Luetkestratkoetter said today the profit
warning at Leighton was “very surprising” and that the company
would work closely with its Australian unit. The Sydney-based
builder will likely change bidding procedures and may sell
assets, said CEO Stewart, who replaced  Wal King , leader of the
company for 23 years.  Leighton Performance  Leighton’s shares have been halted from trading in Sydney
until April 14, pending the capital raising. The builder has
fallen 6 percent this year, compared with a 4.8 percent gain for
the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index. The company predicted an annual
profit of A$480 million two months ago.  Leighton’s entitlement offer is fully underwritten by UBS
AG with proceeds to be used to strengthen the builder’s balance
sheet and support its investment-grade credit ratings, it said.  The company’s debt is rated BBB by  Standard & Poor’s , the
second-lowest investment-grade level. Moody’s Investors Service
rates it Baa1, the third-lowest investment grade.  The A$4.2 billion Brisbane Link, which connects  Australia ’s
third-largest city with its airport via a new toll road, will
lose about A$430 million by the time it’s completed amid
increased design costs, the need to order additional
construction materials and tunneling expenses. The project was
originally budgeted for a pretax profit of A$407 million.  Leighton Apology  The A$3.5 billion desalination profit will earn Leighton
just A$6 million, rather than the original forecast of A$282
million, amid wet-weather delays and higher labor costs,
Leighton said today.  “This is the most serious challenge faced by the Leighton
group in the last 20 years and we apologize to the shareholders
for the situation they are now in,” Stewart told reporters on a
conference call today. “We will be enhancing our focus on
tender accuracy and risk identification.”  The company may sell some assets, he said, declining to
identify what may be sold or how much the company may seek to
raise. Deputy CEO Bill Wild will also retire from Leighton at
the end of June, the company said.  Leighton took an A$200 million impairment charge against
its Middle East venture with Al Habtoor Group as the business
needed additional funding and continues to face delays in
recovering debts.  Al Habtoor Leighton Group, which was formed in 2007, was
previously written down to A$845 million from A$1.144 billion as
the global financial crisis curbed demand for new projects.  “Their entry into the Middle East was very poorly timed,”
said White Funds’ Seddon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in  Frankfurt  at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at +49-30-70010-6230 or
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  