-- 
Televisa CEO Defends Challenge to Slim Empire as Investors Balk

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-04-11T20:26:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/televisa-ceo-defends-challenge-to-slim-wireless-empire-as-investors-balk.html
Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO)  Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Emilio Azcarraga said investors should
give his management team a “vote of confidence” as it spends
billions of dollars to reshape the company into a media and
communications empire in Mexico and the U.S.  Televisa has dropped 10 percent in Mexico City trading
since April 4, the day before the company disclosed it was in
talks with Grupo Iusacell SA, Mexico’s third-largest wireless
carrier. The companies announced April 7 that Televisa would buy
a 50 percent stake in Iusacell for $1.6 billion.  Investors such as Jack Deino of Invesco Advisers Inc. have
said Azcarraga is overpaying for a company that has failed to
gain market share against billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America
Movil  SAB. Azcarraga said Iusacell is a key piece of his plan to
make Televisa’s communications companies a better alternative
for Mexican consumers.  “They need to have confidence in the management of
Televisa,” Azcarraga, 43, said in an April 8 interview at
Televisa’s Mexico City headquarters. “We have been a very good
investment for them, and we’re very grateful that they have had
confidence in us for a long time. I ask them to give us a vote
of confidence.”  Azcarraga is taking Televisa from its roots as Mexico’s
biggest broadcaster into direct competition with Slim, the
world’s richest man. America Movil controls 71 percent of the
country’s wireless market and 80 percent of wired phone lines.  ‘Costly and Risky’  Gregorio Tomassi, an analyst at Banco Santander SA in
Mexico City, called the Iusacell deal “costly and risky” in a
research note last week. Deino, who oversees $1.75 billion in
emerging-market debt at Invesco in  New York , said last week in
an interview that Televisa is paying about 18 times Iusacell’s
enterprise value divided by profits, while America Movil trades
at about 6 times.  “It makes more sense for a company to pay shareholders a
dividend and let them figure out what to do with the cash
instead of investing it and overpaying,” Deino said.  Televisa fell 9 centavos to 53.94 pesos in Mexico City
trading today. The shares have lost 16 percent this year.  Since taking over as CEO of Televisa 14 years ago, when his
father Emilio died, Azcarraga has amassed stakes in a satellite
TV operator, three cable-TV carriers and a nationwide
telecommunications network. He’s also expanded to the U.S.,
striking a deal last year to spend $1.2 billion for a stake of
as much as 35 percent of Spanish-language broadcaster Univision
Communications Inc. to tap growth in the Hispanic market.  Televisa has grown at a 6.1 percent average annual clip
under the younger Azcarraga, more than doubling to 57.9 billion
pesos ($4.93 billion) in revenue last year.  ‘Not Failed in Anything’  “Since I took over in 1997, everything I’ve said we’d do,
we have done,” Azcarraga said. “We have not failed in
anything.”  The company, which closed last year with about $2.7 billion
in cash and short-term investments, has said it can fund the
Iusacell deal and its other commitments without issuing new
debt. While  Standard & Poor’s  last week affirmed its investment-
grade rating on Televisa debt, the ratings company said
Televisa’s investment strategy was “less conservative than in
the past and not in line with our original expectations.”  Growth Potential  Billionaire  Ricardo Salinas , who acquired control of
Iusacell in 2003, failed on his own to find a way to break
Slim’s stronghold on the market. In an interview last year, he
cited poor management, saying the company had missed
opportunities and that the problems were “self-inflicted.”  Debt problems hampered Iusacell’s ability to invest in its
marketing and operations, Televisa Chief Financial Officer Salvi Folch said in an interview. Iusacell filed for  bankruptcy
protection  in  Mexico  last year for the second time in four
years.  Investors are overlooking the ability of Iusacell to grow
with Televisa’s backing, Azcarraga said. The $1.6 billion will
go completely to the business, allowing Iusacell to fund its
expansion plans without worrying about paying its bills, Folch
said.  Televisa’s cable carriers, Cablemas SA, Empresas
Cablevision SAB and Television Internacional SA, and its
satellite company, Sky, provide service in 5 million households,
most of which aren’t Iusacell clients. The Iusacell stake allows
Televisa to offer a “quadruple play” of home-phone, Internet,
TV and wireless that America Movil can’t match, Azcarraga said.  The Univision agreement is an example of how Televisa is
investing for growth and cost savings, he said. When Televisa
sent its news anchor Carlos Loret to cover  Japan ’s earthquake,
the journalist also covered the story for Univision. The
companies are also coordinating plans for the next Olympic games
and soccer’s  World Cup , Azcarraga said.  Only ‘Good Investments’  “The largest country in the Spanish-speaking market is the
Spanish-speaking U.S., and the growth that will be achieved in
the next 10 to 12 years is very big,” he said. “Whatever we
can do to grow in that business, it’s something we need to work
on.”  While the series of deals in the last six months has
depleted Televisa’s cash, the company will be able to replenish
itself with cash from operations, Azcarraga said. The company
remains open to acquisition opportunities such as Megacable
Holdings SAB, though it doesn’t consider more consolidation in
Mexico’s cable industry an urgent goal, he said.  “We had built our cash to invest in Univision and in
telecommunications, and we have said that since 10 or 11 years
ago,” Azcarraga said. “We always look at opportunities, but
it’s only going to be opportunities that are good investments in
what we do, which is production and distribution of content.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  