-- 
Endo Agrees to Buy American Medical Systems for $2.9 Billion

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-04-11T20:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/endo-to-buy-american-medical-for-2-9-billion-to-trim-pain-drug-dependence.html
Endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings Inc. (ENDP) ,
seeking to reduce dependence on its top-selling painkiller,
agreed to buy  American Medical Systems Holdings Inc. (AMMD)  for $2.9
billion to add urology products.  Stockholders of American Medical, which makes incontinence
treatments, will get $30 a share,  Chadds Ford , Pennsylvania-
based Endo said today in a statement. That’s 34 percent above
the April 8 closing price for Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
American Medical. Endo will also assume $312 million of American
Medical’s debt.  With the purchase, Endo may generate $1 billion in urology
sales by next year, Chief Executive Officer Dave Holveck said in
a telephone interview. The painkiller Lidoderm, which loses
patent protection in 2015, generated $783 million in sales last
year, or about 46 percent of Endo’s revenue.  “The street likes it because it’s accretive in a somewhat
sizeable way to 2012 and 2013 numbers,” said Ian Sanderson, an
analyst with Cowen & Co., in a telephone interview today. “We
now have a bit more conviction that Endo can grow their earnings
at a double-digit rate in each of those years.”  American Medical rose $7.17, or 32 percent, to $29.50 at 4
p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. Endo rose 21
cents to $41.06.  “Our shareholders have been very concerned about the
dominance of Lidoderm, and we’ve blunted that with
diversification” through acquisitions, Holveck said in a
telephone interview. “The deal adds to our core urology
franchise, bringing us innovation.”  Incontinence Treatments  American Medical provides devices and treatments used by
doctors to treat incontinence in both men and women, generating
about $542.3 million in revenue in 2010.  Endo will continue to seek “small, bolt-on” acquisitions
in each of its businesses to enhance growth, Holveck said during
a conference call today.  Smaller acquisitions are “always in the cooker,” Holveck
said in the interview. “I’m always reluctant to give more
detail, but we do have activities moving.”  Holveck said in January he was seeking purchases to expand
in diagnostic tools for urology and cancer, in comments at the
J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference in  San Francisco .  The American Medical purchase, to be completed late in the
third quarter, will increase Endo’s earnings this year on an
adjusted diluted per-share basis, the company said. Endo may
boost profit by 60 cents a share in 2012 and by 80 cents in
2013, according to the statement.  Endo has announced seven acquisitions in the last five
years, with an average disclosed size of $683.4 million and an
average premium of 47 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. American Medical Systems would be the largest, the
data show.  In the past 12 months there have been 222 acquisitions
announced of U.S. health-care product manufacturers, with the
average size of a deal being $273.4 million, including net debt.
The average premium announced was 89 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  