-- 
Tepco President to Visit Fukushima City One Month After Disaster

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a
-- 
2011-04-11T00:37:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/tepco-president-to-visit-fukushima-city-one-month-after-disaster.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. President
Masataka Shimizu will visit Fukushima one month after an
earthquake and tsunami crippled a nuclear station in the
prefecture, causing  Japan ’s worst civilian nuclear disaster.  Shimizu will meet Motohisa Ikeda, a vice minister from the
trade ministry who is the most senior national government
official at the prefectural offices, today in Fukushima city,
Tokyo Electric spokesman Jun Nakagawa said. It’s Shimizu’s first
visit to the area after leaving hospital last week following
treatment for hypertension due to the crisis.  Tokyo Electric is still using emergency equipment to try to
cool reactors damaged at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi station north of
Tokyo after backup generators were knocked out by the tsunami on
March 11. The company is trying to prevent further explosions
after blasts damaged containment structures, releasing radiation
into the air and sea.  Shimizu isn’t scheduled to meet with Yuhei Sato, the local
governor who refused a meeting on March 22, Nakagawa said.
Shimizu proposed visiting the governor to apologize for the
accident, but was asked to deal with the crisis first.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  will address the nation
today, one month after the quake and tsunami devastated the
country’s northern coastline. More than 60 percent of voters
disapprove of Kan’s handling of the nuclear crisis, according to
a Yomiuri newspaper poll published on April 4.  The magnitude-9 earthquake, Japan’s strongest on record,
and tsunami left more than 27,700 dead or missing, according to
Japan’s  National Police Agency . The government estimated the
damage at 25 trillion yen ($295 billion).  Station Swamped  The tsunami rose to as high as 15 meters (49 feet) at the
station, Tepco, as the company is called, said on April 9. The
base of the station is about 10 meters above  sea level .  “Most of the area around the reactor buildings and turbine
housings was swamped,” the utility said in a statement.  Tepco has been battling explosions and radiation leaks in
the air and sea, as it’s sought to cool reactors by dousing them
with millions of liters of water after the station’s cooling
systems failed.  The company, which has been discharging water with low
levels of radioactivty into the sea, plans to start transferring
more contaminated water from a trench at the station’s No. 2
reactor to a condenser.  “We aim to drain the contaminated water away immediately
as the level has risen to less than one meter below the top of
the trench,” said Teruaki Kobayashi, the head of the company’s
nuclear maintenance group, yesterday in Tokyo.  About 60,000 metric tons of contaminated water lies in the
basements of turbine buildings and trenches around the No. 1, 2
and 3 reactors, the company said last week. Tepco needs to drain
the water to restore reactor cooling systems in the turbine
buildings.  Tepco said on April 8 that the station, which has six
reactors and is about 220 kilometers (137 miles) north of Tokyo,
wasn’t further damaged by a magnitude-7.1 aftershock on April 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  