-- 
Thermax’s Unnikrishnan Says India Rates May Lead to Slowdown

-- B y   A m e y a   K a r v e
-- 
2011-04-11T09:09:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/thermax-s-unnikrishnan-says-india-rates-may-lead-to-slowdown.html
M.S. Unnikrishnan, managing
director of  Thermax Ltd. (TMX) , an Indian power equipment maker,
comments on the unexpected slowdown in  India ’s industrial
production. He spoke in a telephone interview from Pune in the
western state of Maharashtra.  Output at India’s factories, utilities and mines rose 3.6
percent in February from a year earlier after a revised 3.95
percent gain in January, the government said in a statement in
 New Delhi  today. The median estimate of 30 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 5.1 percent increase.  Production of capital goods slid 18.4 percent in February,
the third monthly decline.  “One is not taking undue cognizance of such a negative
number but it’s a concern at this point of time, and doesn’t
augur too well for the industry.”  On his outlook for the industry:  “There may be a slowdown in infrastructure building in the
next two quarters due to higher interest costs, which may
consequently lead to economic slowdown.  “On the ground, the situation is not so bad. There is no
demand reduction but orders are getting delayed as people
calculate and recalculate paybacks and internal rates of return,
which are shrinking with higher  interest rates .  “Companies with good balance sheets may go ahead with
their expansion. They can afford to get better rate from the
banking system and can take decisions very quickly.”  On borrowing costs:  “We need inflation for growth of an economy, but a
moderate inflation. From the fiscal fourth quarter onwards,
there may be a realization that increasing interest rates will
only slow the economy, and costs need to be brought down through
legislative measures like the public distribution system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ameya Karve in Mumbai at 
 akarve@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  