-- 
European Stocks Fall From One-Month High; Daimler, Hochtief Drop

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-04-11T16:13:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/european-stock-futures-little-changed-after-rally-u-s-index-futures-gain.html
European stocks declined, dragging
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index from a one-month high, as carmakers
and construction companies fell before the start of the U.S.
earnings-reporting season.  Daimler AG (DAI)  dropped 2.7 percent as Credit Suisse Group AG
downgraded auto companies.  Hochtief AG (HOT)  tumbled 9.5 percent after
the builder warned earnings may halve this year. British banks
limited losses after the U.K.’s Independent Commission on
Banking released its report on the industry.  The benchmark Stoxx 600 fell 0.2 percent to 280.99 at the
4:30 p.m. close in London, retreating from last week’s highest
close since March 8. The gauge retreated as much as 0.6 percent
earlier today after a magnitude-6.6 aftershock struck  Japan  a
month after the nation’s biggest earthquake on record and
subsequent tsunami left about 27,500 dead or missing.  “There is a real battle taking place in investors’ minds
at the moment,” said  Henk Potts , a London-based equity
strategist at Barclays Wealth in  London , which oversees $239
billion. “There is the potential to be distracted by macro
events whether natural disasters or political unrest against a
still pretty bright corporate picture.”  The aftershock struck Japan about 60 kilometers (37 miles)
from Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s stricken nuclear power plant,
shaking buildings in the capital. The government said 220,000
households in northern Japan lost power after the temblor.  Third Weekly Gain  European stocks completed a third straight week of gains on
April 8 as banks rallied after  Portugal  requested a bailout and
the  European Central Bank  increased  interest rates  for the first
time in almost three years. The gauge has rebounded 7.3 percent
from this year’s low on March 16.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer,
unofficially kicks off the first-quarter reporting season after
the close of trading in  New York  today. Eleven companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index are scheduled to release results
this week, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Bank of America Corp.
and Google Inc.  National benchmark indexes dropped in 16 out of 18 western
European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 slipped less than
0.1 percent while  France ’s CAC 40 dropped 0.6 percent and
 Germany ’s DAX slid 0.2 percent.  Daimler dropped 2.7 percent to 50.65 euros in Frankfurt
after Credit Suisse lowered its recommendation for the world’s
largest maker of commercial vehicles to “neutral” from
“outperform” and cut its share price estimate by 13 percent to
65 euros.  Credit Suisse also cut its stance on European automakers to
“benchmark” from “outperform,” saying expectations for a
sector re-rating are unlikely to be met.  Hochtief  Hochtief tumbled 9.5 percent to 62.26 euros after Germany’s
largest publicly traded builder said pretax profit may fall
about 50 percent this year after its Australian unit predicted a
loss and announced a A$757 million ($800 million) stock sale.  The company will take up its full allotment in Leighton
Holdings Ltd.’s share sale, it said in a statement today. The
unit will sell new shares at A$22.50 apiece through a 1-for-9
entitlement offer.  Schneider Electric SA (SU)  declined 3.7 percent to 117 euros
after three people with knowledge of the matter said the company
is weighing a takeover offer for  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  that
would make the French company the world’s biggest maker of
security systems.  Husqvarna AB (HUSQB)  sank 7.2 percent to 50.10 kronor after the
world’s largest maker of lawnmowers said first-quarter sales and
operating profit in the Americas fell short of expectations.  U.K. Banks  Barclays Plc (BARC)  gained 2.8 percent to 305.35 pence and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  increased 2.3 percent to 44.43 pence
as the ICB recommended the U.K.’s biggest banks should hold core
Tier 1 capital levels of about 10 percent, implement
“credible” resolution plans and ring-fence consumer units.  The commission stopped short of seeking a full break up of
retail and investment banking businesses, according to its
interim report. It also called for  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  to
sell more branches than planned. Lloyds gained 0.3 percent to
62.36 pence.  The ICB was commissioned by the government to examine
competition issues and whether to separate retail from
investment banking activities. U.K. banks last week climbed on
speculation the report will be less tough than some had feared.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  rallied 1.8 percent to 2,631.5 pence
after the company doused speculation it plans to buy  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s stake in  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  and make a A$46
billion ($48.6 billion) takeover.  ‘Market Speculation’  BHP “is not aware of any basis for the market
speculation” or media reports linking it to Woodside, the
Melbourne-based company said in a statement. The Sunday Times
reported yesterday that BHP is in talks with Shell, which is
being advised by UBS AG. Woodside’s shares surged as much as 7.6
percent in  Australia  today.  Separately, Credit Suisse upgraded the world’s largest
mining company to “outperform” from “neutral,” citing
valuations and strong earnings momentum from oil.  Roth & Rau AG (R8R)  soared 13 percent to 22.30 euros after  Meyer
Burger Technology AG (MBTN)  made a 357 million-euro ($516 million) bid
to combine their solar-equipment units. Roth & Rau agreed to a
22 euros-a-share offer.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  gained 0.9 percent to 54.93 euros after
 NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s board affirmed its commitment to a merger with
the Frankfurt-based company, spurning an unsolicited offer from
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  and
setting the stage for a possible decision by shareholders.  Directors voted unanimously to back NYSE Euronext Chief
Executive Officer Duncan Niederauer’s agreement with Deutsche
Boerse, saying it will create more long-term value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  