-- 
Europe's Sovereign Debt Woes Force DinoSol Loan Writedown, Irish Bank Sale

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-04-11T07:43:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/europe-s-sovereign-debt-woes-force-dinosol-loan-writedown-irish-bank-sale.html
Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
pushed DinoSol Supermercados into the hands of its creditors and
prompted Bank of Ireland Plc to start selling 3 billion euros
($4.3 billion) of project finance loans to boost reserves.  Permira Advisers LLP will hand over its ownership in
DinoSol to the Madrid-based supermarket chain’s creditors in a
debt restructuring, three people familiar with the matter said
April 6. Bank of Ireland, Ireland’s largest bank, said April 4
it hired Deutsche Bank AG to sell most of its project finance
business of U.K. infrastructure loans.  The distressed  debt market  in Europe is set to outstrip the
U.S. for the first time as deficit-ridden governments force
banks to sell $2 trillion of underperforming assets, Strategic
Value Partners LLC predicts, and budget cuts and austerity
measures begin to bite.  “European commercial banks are now having to sell the
distressed assets on their balance sheets in the size and scale
we’ve never seen in the history of modern finance,” Victor Khosla, founder of the Greenwich Connecticut-based distressed-
debt hedge fund manager, said in a telephone interview. “The
sovereign debt crisis in Europe is helping to increase the
supply of distressed assets in Europe.”  Standard & Poor’s  said it expects a “second wave of
defaults” next year, after writeoffs on senior leveraged loan
peaked at 6.5 billion euros in 2009. KPMG Europe LLP hired two
restructuring partners to cope with an anticipated increase in
workload, it said April 4.  Returns  Distressed debt typically yields at least 10 percentage
points more than  government bonds .  Hedge funds  dedicated to
buying the debt earned an average 4.1 percent return this year
after reaping 23 percent last year, according to Singapore-based
data provider Eurekahedge Pte. By comparison,   junk bonds 
returned 14.7 percent in 2010, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global High-Yield Index.  Investors profit when a company’s debt is restructured and
they recover more than the amount implied by loan prices by
taking the company’s assets or shares.  DinoSol’s loans fell to as low as 15 percent this year,
according to Jefferies Group Inc. prices. The debt is now quoted
at 17 to 19 percent of face value after three people familiar
with the borrower said on April 6 that investors led by fund
managers Indicus Advisors, Alcentra Group Ltd. and M&G
Investment Management Ltd. and lenders Caja Madrid Societe
Generale and Lloyds Banking Group Plc may agree to write down
debt in exchange for ownership of the company.  Eircom Breach  The Spanish chain’s sales have been falling since 2009 as
consumers cut spending, forcing it to ask lenders to reset
covenants in 2010 to grant it “liquidity headroom,” according
to Permira’s  website .  Permira, which bought DinoSol from Royal Ahold NV in 2004,
will relinquish control, the people said. A Permira spokesman
who didn’t want to be identified declined to comment.  Ireland’s largest phone company Eircom Group Ltd. risks
breaching conditions on 3.75 billion euros of debt, Chief
Financial Officer  Mark Wilson  said March 1. Harbourmaster
Capital Management Ltd., Eircom’s biggest lender, has teamed up
with Blackstone Group LP, Alcentra, Avoca Capital Holdings and
Deutsche Bank AG to represent holders of Eircom’s first-lien
loans, four people with knowledge of the talks said March 1.  Irish Bank Disposals  Ireland’s banks are curbing loans and bolstering capital
after logging record losses from the bursting of a decade-long
real-estate bubble. The nation’s central bank ordered Bank of
Ireland, already 36 percent-owned by the state, to dispose of
about 30 billion euros of non-core loans after publishing stress
tests for Irish lenders last month.  Lenders are beginning to crystallize losses after forgiving
debt last year and keeping default rates artificially low, said
Christian Savvides, a managing director at Rothschild in  London .
The global default rate ended the first quarter at 2.6 percent
and may fall to 1.5 percent by the end of the year, according to
an April 8 report by Moody’s Investors Service.  “Most banks in Europe now seem to be taking a pragmatic
attitude towards debt restructuring, recognizing that sometimes
a writedown is necessary to restore a company’s health and allow
lenders to get their recovery through the equity,” Savvides
said. “In the next wave of restructuring in Europe, I would
expect to see fewer of the ‘sticking-plaster’ type transactions
that leave companies struggling to cope with too much debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  