-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: China Pork Binge Spurs Soy Imports

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-04-11T08:15:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/europe-commodity-day-ahead-china-pork-binge-spurs-soy-imports.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  China  Pork Binge Driving Iowa-Sized Soy Imports on Shortage (2)  All the soybeans in  Iowa  won’t be enough to meet the
anticipated surge in China’s imports over the next four years as
the nation feeds a record pig herd and drives bean prices to an
all-time high.  S. Africa’s Top Fund Manager to Spend $6.8 Billion on Continent  Public Investment Corp., Africa’s biggest fund manager,
will invest about 45 billion rand ($6.8 billion) on the
continent to benefit from one of the world’s fastest-growing
regions, Chief Investment Officer Daniel Matjila said.  Citigroup Says Buy All Pemex Bonds on Oil Output:  Mexico  Credit  Citigroup Inc.’s Accival, Mexico’s largest brokerage, is
recommending all 28 of Petroleos Mexicanos’ bonds for the first
time as Latin America’s largest oil producer reverses a six-year
decline in crude output.  Marfrig and Cofco Agree on $252 Million Chinese Food Deal  Brazil ’s Marfrig Alimentos SA has agreed to a $252 million
deal with Chinese food company Cofco Ltd. to build six food
distribution centers in China, Chief Executive Officer Marcos
Molina said in an interview in Bejing.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Poised for Record, Aluminum to Gain:  Technical Analysis   Copper is set to climb 13 percent to a record $11,200 a
metric ton and aluminum will extend its advance, according to
technical analysis from  Barclays Capital .  Copper in London Climbs to Five-Week High; Tin Jumps to Record  Copper advanced for a fifth day to the highest level in
more than five weeks after China’s imports rebounded last month,
fueling optimism that demand is robust in the world’s largest
metals user. Tin jumped to a record.  Nickel Use in China to Grow Fastest Among Metals, Antaike Says  Nickel demand in China, the world’s biggest user, may
increase about 16 percent this year, beating the gains forecast
for five other base metals, according to researcher Beijing
Antaike Information Development Co.  Mitsui Mining Cuts Zinc Output by 16% in April-September (1)  Mitsui Mining & Smelting Co.,  Japan ’s largest zinc smelter,
plans to reduce output of the refined metal by 16 percent in the
first half of this fiscal year as it aims to restart its
Hachinohe smelter in June.  Alcoa Net May Triple as Demand Outweighs ‘Monstrous’ Stockpiles  Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, may report
first-quarter profit tripled on higher metal prices as increased
demand outweighed the effects of near-record global inventories.  China to Halt Approval of New Aluminum Projects, Group Says (1)  China, the world’s biggest aluminum producer and consumer,
may suspend the approval of new smelters to curb surging
overcapacity, according to the nation’s largest industry group.  Timah Advances to Two-Month High as Tin Rises for Fourth Day  PT Timah rose to a two-month high in Jakarta trading after
tin futures gained for a fourth day, improving the revenue
outlook for  Indonesia ’s biggest producer of the metal.  MINING:  BHP Douses Speculation of A$46 Billion Woodside Takeover Bid (3)  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
doused speculation it plans to buy Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s stake
in Woodside Petroleum Ltd. and make a A$46 billion ($48.6
billion) takeover.  BHP Not Aware of Basis for Market Speculation on Woodside (2)  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
doused speculation it plans to buy Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s stake
in Woodside Petroleum Ltd. and make a A$46 billion ($48.6
billion) takeover.  Zijin Mining Cut to ‘Neutral’ at Credit Suisse on Growth Outlook  Zijin Mining Group Co., China’s biggest gold producer by
market value, was cut to “neutral” from “outperform” at
Credit Suisse Group AG, which said output growth may be
“subdued” in the near term.  Vale CEO to Leave $87.5 Billion Short of Goal: Chart of the Day  Roger Agnelli , who as Vale SA’s chief executive officer
sought to turn the company into the world’s top miner by
overtaking rival BHP Billiton Ltd., will leave his post next
month $87.5 billion short of his goal.  BHP Not Aware of Basis for Market Speculation on Woodside (1)  BHP Billiton Ltd. said the market is currently fully
informed of all material information and the company “is not
aware of any basis for the market speculation” in relation to
Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Advances to Record, Silver Tops $41 an Ounce on Inflation  Gold climbed to a record and silver topped $41 an ounce,
gaining for a ninth straight day in the best run since March
2008, as investors sought precious metals as hedges against
accelerating inflation.  Silver Beating Gold as World Economy Rebounds: Chart of the Day  Silver, where half of the world’s consumption is from
industry, offers better returns than gold because it benefits
from a rebounding global economy as well as demand for a haven,
according to UBS AG.  AGRICULTURE:  Rubber Gains to 5-Week High on Tight Supply During Thai New Year  Rubber climbed to the highest level in five weeks on
concerns that supply will tighten during New Year holidays in
 Thailand , the largest exporter.  Malaysia  March  Palm Oil  Stocks 1,614,066 Metric Tons, MPOB Says  Palm oil stockpiles in Malaysia, the world’s second-largest
producer, rose 8.95 percent in March compared with the previous
month.  India  Likely to Lift Wheat, Rice Export Bans, Citigroup Says  India, the world’s second largest producer of rice and
wheat, is likely to lift a ban on exports after foodgrain
production reached a record, Citigroup Inc. said today in an
emailed report.  India’s State Rice, Wheat Reserves Climb to 44.2 Million Tons  State reserves of rice and wheat in India, the second-
biggest producer, totaled 44.2 million metric tons on April 1,
more than double the emergency stockpile requirement, according
to the Food Corp. of India.  Hedge Funds  Boost Bullish Bets on Grain, Soy as Demand Rises  Hedge funds boosted their bullish bets on corn and soybeans
to the highest in four weeks as demand surged for food,
livestock feed and fuel. Bullish bets on wheat jumped the most
since early December.  Palm Oil Advances for Second Day, Tracking  Soybean Oil , Crude  Palm oil advanced, tracking gains in soybean oil, which
climbed on a forecast decline in U.S. stockpiles, and after
 crude oil  jumped to the highest since September 2008.  China to Auction Rapeseed Oil, Corn Tomorrow, Center Says  China will auction 100,000 tons of rapeseed oil from the
country’s temporary reserves on April 15, the National Grain &
Oil Trade Center said on its website today.  SHIPPING:  Capesizes at Anchor Rises to 154 From 126, Global Ports Says  The number of capesize ships anchored worldwide rose to 154
last week from 126 a week earlier, Truro, England-based Global
Ports said in a report.  Kowtowing to Pirates’ Ransoms Fuels Maritime Piracy: Commentary  International business practices encourage piracy in the
Gulf of Aden and work against national and international
interests. The business community needs to examine its practices
or piracy will continue to flourish.  ECONOMIES:  China Inflation ‘Somewhat Out of Control,’  George Soros  Says  The Chinese government’s decision to keep its currency weak
is leading to higher risks of wage-price inflation, billionaire
investor George Soros said.  China Export Growth Shows Economy Tolerating Rate Increases (1)  China’s faster-than-expected growth in exports and imports
last month may allow Premier Wen Jiabao to strengthen his fight
against inflation, which probably exceeded his target for the
ninth straight month in March.  Insider Trading in China Thrives With Selective Data Disclosure  Every month, traders, investors and money managers like Shi
Yu cull rumors about China’s soon-to-be- released economic
statistics for what might be the official numbers to try and get
an edge in the market.  China 2011 Car Sales May Grow Slower Than Automakers’ Estimates  China’s passenger-car sales may grow at a slower pace this
year than was earlier estimated by a group of the nation’s
automakers after the government ended incentives for purchases
and raised fuel prices.  China’s Export Growth Shows Economy Tolerating Rate Increases  China’s faster-than-expected growth in exports and imports
last month may allow Premier Wen Jiabao to strengthen his fight
against inflation, which probably exceeded his target for the
ninth straight month in March.  Discouraged Workers Stop Fed From Taking Comfort in Jobless Fall  The sharpest drop in unemployment in more than a quarter
century obscures a simple fact: The jobs market still isn’t
working for many Americans.  OTHER MARKETS:  Metals Gain, Treasuries Fall on Growth Stokes Inflation Concern  Metals and grains advanced, with silver rising for a ninth
day and corn rallying to the highest since June 2008, while
Treasuries fell as the growing global economy fueled raw-
material demand. Shares of automakers declined while mining and
energy stocks gained.  Euro Declines on Speculation Rally Too Rapid Amid Debt Concerns  The euro fell against most of its major currencies on
speculation its advance to a 15-month high against the dollar
was excessive given lingering concern  Europe ’s debt crisis may
worsen.  Crude Oil Is Near 30-Month High on Middle East Unrest, Dollar  Crude oil traded near a 30-month high in  New York  as Middle
East unrest disrupted crude production and investors purchased
commodities as a hedge against the declining dollar.  SPORTS:  Tiger Woods ’s Rally Falls Short as U.S. Players Fail at Masters  Tiger Woods charged up the leaderboard at the Masters
Tournament, only to be turned aside again. The winner this time
was the 26-year-old son of a South African chicken farmer and
left golf without a U.S. champion in its four major tournaments
for the first time in 17 years.  Charl Schwartzel Wins Golf’s Masters With Late Run of Birdies  Charl Schwartzel won golf’s Masters Tournament, closing
with four birdies for a 6-under-par 66 during a final round in
which seven players held at least a share of the lead.  Matsuyama Will Join Japan Earthquake Relief After Masters Laurel  Hideki Matsuyama said he’s eager to return to Japan to help
with earthquake relief after matching the lowest score by an
amateur in six years at golf’s Masters Tournament.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  