-- 
Teva’s MS Pill Reduces Relapses Less Than Most Injected Drugs, Study Finds

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   C o r t e z   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-04-12T16:22:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/teva-s-ms-pill-reduces-relapses-less-than-most-injected-drugs.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (TEVA) ’s multiple sclerosis pill, heir to the drugmaker’s top-
selling Copaxone treatment, cut relapses of the disease less
than most older injected treatments.  The drug, laquinimod, trimmed relapses by 23 percent
compared with a placebo in a study of 1,106 patients,
researchers said yesterday at an  American Academy of Neurology 
meeting in Honolulu. The pill reduced the progression of
disability by 36 percent in the trial, dubbed Allegro.  Teva needs the drug to replace revenue lost as its injected
Copaxone treatment faces competition from the first multiple
sclerosis pill,  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gilenya. The study results fell
short of expectations, judging from the abstract, Jefferies & Co.
analyst  Corey Davis  wrote in a note. The full trial results will
be presented later this week. The data began circulating
yesterday among investors after the academy provided abstracts
at the conference. Teva shares fell 3.4 percent in  Tel Aviv .  “Chalk the weakness up to a case of expectations getting
too high,” Davis, based in New York, said in the note
yesterday. “We think the market was expecting annual relapse
rate reductions in the neighborhood of 25 to 35 percent.”  The academy lifted the embargo about six hours after Teva’s
American depositary receipts began to drop, allowing media to
report the study results. Conference organizers cited the
Jefferies note. Davis declined to comment on the embargo break
yesterday in an e-mail.  Older Injections  Teva fell to 169 shekels at the close of Tel Aviv trading,
the biggest drop since Feb. 8. Teva’s American depositary
receipts fell $1.48, or 2.9 percent, to close at $48.98 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading yesterday as word of the study
circulated among investors, and fell 0.2 percent today as of
12:12 p.m. in New York. Each receipt represents one ordinary
company share. The S&P Pharmaceuticals Index increased 0.6
percent.  Active Biotech AB (ACTI) , Teva’s partner on the drug, fell 10
percent to 137.5 kronor in Stockholm trading today, the biggest
drop in three years.  Laquinimod was expected to reduce relapses by 25 percent to
30 percent, matching older injected drugs from  Bayer AG (BAYN) , Merck
KGaA and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG
including Ravi Mehrotra wrote in a note on April 7. The Teva
pill was also expected to reduce disability in the range of 30
percent to 40 percent, almost as much as Tysabri, an infused
therapy from Biogen and Elan Corp., according to Mehrotra.  ‘Profound Impact’  Teva, based in  Petah Tikva ,  Israel , aims to tap a $2
billion market of about 80,000 patients with the relapsing-
remitting form of MS who aren’t currently being treated, Jon Congleton, head of Teva’s neuroscience unit, said in a call with
Barclays Capital analysts on March 16. Copaxone brought in $3.3
billion of the firm’s $16.1 billion in revenue last year.  Laquinimod also cut brain atrophy by one-third in the
company-sponsored trial.  “It’s going to position us very well. If you look at MS,
what’s important in the management of MS, it’s the totality of
the package,” Congleton said yesterday in an interview.
Laquinimod had a “robust and profound impact” on progression
of the disease and was safer than immunosuppressant treatments
and easier to take because it’s a once-daily pill, he said.  New Drugs  Teva expects the MS market to grow as new drugs are
introduced, he said. Congleton declined to comment on whether
Teva expects sales for laquinimod to equal those of Copaxone.  Some analysts viewed the data from the abstract released
yesterday as positive. “We believe that Teva’s assertion that
laquinimod has first-line potential is highly credible,” David Amsellem and Michael Dinerman of Piper Jaffray & Co. wrote in a
note to clients today.  There were more cases of elevated liver enzymes among
patients treated with laquinimod than among those who got the
placebo, lead author Giancarlo Comi, director of the neurology
department at the University Vita-Salute San Raffaele in Milan,
said in a statement. The elevations were “temporary, reversible
and did not lead to any signs of liver problems,” Comi said.  MS causes the immune system to attack the insulating tissue
around nerve fibers. This stops nerve cells from sending
signals, sapping patients’ energy, blurring their vision and
slowly depriving them of mobility, balance and coordination. The
relapsing-remitting form of the disease is characterized by a
series of relapses that may leave patients feeling worse.  Gilenya Study  The disease affects about 2.1 million people worldwide,
many of whom have trouble sticking with injected or infused
therapies because they’re difficult to use or have side effects,
according to the  MS Society , a New York-based patient group.  The Novartis medication Gilenya cut relapses by 54 percent
to 60 percent and disability progression by 30 percent to 32
percent compared with a placebo in a study. U.S. regulators
approved the Novartis pill in September.  Gilenya is likely to lead the market with $2.9 billion in
sales in 2017, analysts at Leerink Swann & Co. estimated in a
Feb. 7 note to clients. Copaxone would be in second place at
$2.7 billion, Leerink said, while total sales of MS drugs will
grow to about $15 billion from $10 billion now.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Honolulu at  mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in  New York  at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  