-- 
Level 3 Surges on $1.9 Billion Deal for Global Crossing

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-04-11T20:16:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/level-3-agrees-to-acquire-global-crossing-in-deal-valued-at-1-9-billion.html
Level 3 Communications Inc. (LVLT) , the
unprofitable provider of broadband services, jumped the most in
five months after agreeing to buy  Global Crossing Ltd. (GLBC)  for about
$1.9 billion.  Level 3, based in Broomfield,  Colorado , will acquire Global
Crossing in an all-stock transaction to expand its network over
three continents and reduce expenses, the companies said in a
statement today. The deal is worth $23.04 a share based on Level
3’s closing stock price on April 8, 56 percent more than Global
Crossing’s share price that day. Jim Crowe, Level 3’s chief
executive officer, will lead the merged entity.  The deal will combine two unprofitable companies with total
revenue of $6.26 billion as of last year, and cut annualized
 capital spending  by about $40 million, according to the
statement. It will also help reduce the pressure on prices,
which have declined by as much as 30 percent a year in the
industry, said Donna Jaegers, an analyst at DA Davidson & Co.  “This is what telecom has needed for a long time,” said
Denver-based Jaegers, who recommends buying both stocks. “You
have way too many players.”  Level 3 rose 26 cents, or 18 percent, to $1.70 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the biggest gain
since November. The stock has climbed 73 percent this year.
Global Crossing jumped $10.17, or 69 percent, to $24.97.  Global Crossing will give Level 3 fiber lines across the
 Pacific Ocean  and in Latin America, and add to its capacity in
the U.S. and  Europe . The companies together will have their own
networks in 50 countries and reach to more than 70 countries.  ‘Something New’  “I don’t think it’s an exaggeration to say most other
acquisitions are just about putting revenue together and cutting
costs,” Crowe said in an interview. “This acquisition is about
creating something new.”  Level 3 lost $622 million last year and has been
unprofitable on an annual basis since 1998. Global Crossing,
incorporated in Hamilton,  Bermuda  and operated out of  Florham
Park ,  New Jersey , had a net loss of $172 million in 2010 and
last turned an annual profit in 2003, the year it emerged from
bankruptcy.  Crowe, 61, was CEO of MFS Communications Co. when it was
acquired by Bernard Ebbers and WorldCom Inc. for $15.5 billion
more than a decade ago. Since taking the top job at Level 3 in
1998, he has completed at least 27 deals, according to Bloomberg
data. The largest purchase completed until now was the $1.24
billion acquisition of TelCove Inc. in 2006.  Industry Trends  The industry has been working to combat a capacity glut
since the technology bubble a decade ago led companies,
including Global Crossing, to invest in fiber-optic networks,
driving down prices and hurting profitability. Improvements in
technology for sending traffic over the networks have increased
the capacity and performance of the fiber, exacerbating the
problem, Jaegers said.  Both companies have struggled with the debt they took on to
build their networks. Global Crossing filed for bankruptcy in
January, 2002 the largest for a telecommunications company at
the time. Level 3 avoided bankruptcy the same year with the help
of billionaire  Warren Buffett , who invested $500 million in the
company with two partners.  The value of today’s purchase is $3 billion, including the
assumption of $1.1 billion in debt, the companies said.  Singapore Technologies Telemedia, which holds 60 percent of
Global Crossing’s stock, will become the largest shareholder in
the combined business, the companies said. ST Telemedia will get
to pick about a quarter of the board members for the combined
company, Crowe said. The transaction, which is subject to
shareholder and regulatory approvals, is expected to close this
year, the companies said.  XO Holdings  XO Holdings Inc. (XOHO)  may be the next company to be acquired,
Jaegers said. Activist investor  Carl Icahn  has taken over the
company’s board and is pushing XO to sell, offering to buy the
business for 70 cents a share in January through his company ACF
Industries. XO said on April 8 that Chief Executive Officer Carl Grivner resigned to pursue other opportunities.  “We wanted to do something with Global Crossing for quite
a while, and there wasn’t a No. 2 that was anywhere close,”
Crowe said when asked whether he had considered buying XO.  XO jumped 5 cents, or 6.7 percent, to 80 cents, in over-
the-counter trading. The stock has gained 16 percent this year.  “You have way too many players in long-haul,” said
analyst Jaegers. “Global Crossing and XO were the two loosest
cannons. With Global Crossing in Level 3’s hands and XO up for
grabs with the CEO resigning, you’re starting to see steps that
lead to more rational pricing.”  Deal Valuation  The Global Crossing purchase would be the third-largest of
more than 170 acquisitions of U.S. telecommunication-services
companies over the past three years, according to Bloomberg
data. The acquirers paid a premium of 28 percent on average,
compared with the target’s average price over 20 trading days
before the deal’s announcement. Level 3 agreed to pay a premium
of about 57 percent on that basis.  Since April 2008, nine acquirers paid a median 5.8 times
their target’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, compared with 3.6 times for Level 3, the data
show.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch, Citigroup Inc. and
Morgan Stanley advised Level 3.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  advised
Global Crossing and Credit Suisse Group AG worked with ST
Telemedia. Rothschild provided the fairness opinion to Level 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  