-- 
Ex-Rebel Humala Faces Daughter of Jailed Fujimori in Peru Election Runoff

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-04-11T13:24:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/ex-rebel-humala-faces-daughter-of-jailed-fujimori-in-peru-election-runoff.html
The race to be Peru’s next
president has narrowed to a supporter of greater state control
over the economy who once led an army uprising and the daughter
of a former leader imprisoned for human-rights abuses.  Ollanta Humala, a one-time ally of  Venezuela ’s  Hugo Chavez ,
won 28.7 percent of the vote yesterday, after 68 percent of
ballots were counted as of 11:19 a.m. New York time today. He’ll
face in a June 5 runoff Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori, who
finished second with 22.7 percent. Former Finance Minister Pedro Pablo Kuczynski came in third with 21.7 percent, while ex-
President  Alejandro Toledo  won 15.1 percent. A nationwide quick
count gave Fujimori a five percentage-point lead over Kuczynski.  While a Fujimori presidency may revive the trauma of her
father  Alberto Fujimori ’s decade-long rule, the losing
candidates are likely to rally behind her to prevent Humala from
jeopardizing the fastest economic growth in Latin America over
the past five years, said  Michael Shifter , president of the
 Inter-American Dialogue .  “She’s not a real recipe for stability, but given the
choice, there will be more resistance from the business
community to Humala,” said Shifter, who hosted Humala at an
event in  Washington  last year.  Humala’s Campaign  Humala, 48, won the first round of balloting in 2006 with
31 percent only to lose by five percentage points to President
 Alan Garcia  in a runoff. The Andean nation’s stocks, bonds and
currency tumbled as he surged from fourth into first place in
opinion polls over the past month.  Both Humala and Fujimori are polarizing figures in Peru,
though each has strong support in the Andean highlands where
 poverty  affects 77 percent of the population in some areas.  Like Chavez, who as a paratrooper led a failed coup, Humala
in 2000 led 50 soldiers who seized and occupied for a week one
of Phoenix-based  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) ’s mines to protest
corruption that beset Fujimori’s government. His brother,
Antauro Humala, is serving a 25-year prison sentence for killing
four policemen during the takeover of the southern highland town
of Andahuaylas in 2005, in an attempt to force Toledo to resign.  While downplaying his ties to Chavez and muting the anti-
capitalist rhetoric used in 2006, Humala’s platform proposes
raising royalty fees on mining and gas production and drawing up
a new constitution. He’s also pledged to renegotiate a free-
trade agreement with the U.S. signed by Garcia.  Last night, at a victory rally in Lima, Humala vowed to
seek national unity as president, telling supporters that “ Peru 
wants change without shocks to bring about a big redistribution
of the country’s wealth.”  Fujimori´s Campaign  Fujimori, 35, surrounded herself by her father’s former
aides including running mate Jaime Yoshiyama, who served as his
Minister of the Presidency. The jailed Fujimori is credited by
supporters with laying the foundations of Peru’s economic boom
by slashing inflation from 7,650 percent to 3.5 percent.  He also closed Congress in 1992 and saw his grip on power
tumble after his intelligence chief, Vladimiro Montesinos, was
caught on videotape in 2000 bribing opposition lawmakers.  In 2009, after returning from exile, Fujimori was convicted
and sentenced to 25 years in prison for ordering a paramilitary
squad to kill a group of suspected Marxist rebel sympathizers.  The mother-of-two was elected to Congress in 2006 with more
votes than any other candidate. She met her American husband,
Mark Villanella, while obtaining an MBA at  Columbia University 
in  New York .  Last night, she thanked her father though tried to reassure
Peruvians there’d be no return to authoritarian rule.  “We must to look the future, not to the past,” she said
as supporters chanted “Chino, Chino, Chino,” her father’s
popular nickname. “We’re going to work with absolute respect
for democracy, the rule of law, freedom of expression and the
press.”  Market Jitters  The cost of insuring Peru’s debt against default rose to
its highest since 2009 last week on concern a Humala presidency
would jeopardize $50 billion of mining, energy and
infrastructure investment that the government expects will fuel
6.5 percent growth over the next five years. Peru, the world’s
second-largest producer of copper, grew 8.8 percent last year.  Currency’s Decline  Peru’s sol has declined 1.1 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
since March 20, when Humala began gaining in the polls, making
it the worst performer among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The  Lima  General Index has fallen 3.4
percent in dollar terms during the past month, the sixth-worst
performance among 90 primary stock indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  Garcia, 61, whose five-year mandate expires July 28, is
banned by Peru’s constitution from seeking re-election. During
his term, Peru created 2.5 million jobs and had its first-ever
investment-grade ratings from Moody’s Investors Service,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  Toledo, who had been the early frontrunner, saw support for
his candidacy fade since February though was the only candidate
favored to defeat Humala in a runoff scenario, by four
percentage points, according to an April 3 poll by Lima-based
researcher Ipsos Apoyo. The same poll found Humala and Fujimori
tied in a runoff scenario, with 42 percent support each.  Whoever is elected president may face gridlock in Congress.
Humala’s Nationalist Party won about 39 of the 130 seats in
Peru’s unicameral  legislature , compared with 31 for Fujimori’s
“2011 Force” and 23 for Toledo’s “Possible Peru” movement,
according to exit polls.  Mario Vargas Llosa, the Peruvian novelist who won the 2010
 Nobel Prize  for literature, said last month that it would be a
“catastrophe” if either Humala or Fujimori were elected.  “If the daughter of a dictator who’s serving a jail
sentence for being a criminal and a thief has a chance of being
president, I’ll be one of the Peruvians that will try to stop
her by all legal means,” said Vargas Llosa, who lost the
presidency to Fujimori in 1990 and was backing Toledo in this
race.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  