-- 
Ex-SAC Capital Manager Seeks End to Insider Trading Case

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-11T22:42:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/ex-sac-capital-manager-seeks-end-to-insider-trading-case-1-.html
An ex-fund manager at SAC Capital
Advisors LP, Donald Longueuil, and Winifred Jiau, a former
 Primary Global Research LLC  consultant, asked a judge to dismiss
insider trading cases against them, citing a lack of evidence.  In court papers, Longueuil and Jiau argue there isn’t any
evidence that information Longueuil allegedly received was from
an insider at  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  or  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , or
that the original insiders then provided that information to
Jiau. Both pleaded not guilty.  Prosecutors allege that Jiau passed illegal tips on Nvidia
and Marvell Technology to Noah Freeman, a Boston hedge fund
manager who pleaded guilty to securities fraud and is
cooperating with the government. Freeman is accused of passing
to Longueuil confidential information obtained from sources that
included Jiau, according to the federal indictment filed against
both last month in U.S. district court in  Manhattan .  “The indictment fails to allege Mr. Longueuil knew or
should have known that material nonpublic information he
received from non-inside sources was originally obtained from an
inside tipper that fraudulently breached a duty,” Craig
Carpenito, a lawyer for Longueuil, wrote in court papers filed
April 8. “Mr. Longueuil was a third tier recipient of the
information at best,” he wrote.  Original Tipper  The indictment also failed to make any allegations
regarding the original tipper to Jiau or what duty that person
violated, wrote Carpenito of the law firm Alston & Bird.  “As a result, the government cannot prove a prosecutable
offense for  securities fraud ,” he said.  In a separate filing seeking to have the case thrown out,
Jiau argues prosecutors committed “egregious” acts in
producing evidence against her, which impede her ability to
defend herself. Jiau has been held since her arrest Dec. 28
after a federal judge said she might flee the U.S. if released
on bond.  Jiau’s lawyer, Joanna Hendon, said in court papers filed
today that the U.S. has “tens of millions of pages of
documents” of evidence regarding Jiau, including 113 CDs and
DVDs and 20 hard drives, which Jiau can’t help review because
she’s in custody.  Hendon asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff that to order
the government to identify which documents are relevant to her
case. In an April 8 court filing, Jiau also asked Rakoff to keep
some evidence out of the case.  Both Longueuil and Jiau said they want separate trials
should Rakoff decide not to dismiss the charges.  Each of the defendants faces as long as 25 years in prison
if convicted of conspiracy and securities fraud.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  