-- 
Exelixis Said to Hire Goldman for Possible Takeover Offers

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s   a n d   S a s h a   D a m o u n i
-- 
2011-04-12T20:12:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/exelixis-said-to-hire-goldman-for-possible-bids-after-drug-helps-patients.html
Exelixis Inc. (EXEL)  is working with
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to prepare for potential takeover
offers after its experimental drug helped prostate-cancer
patients in a study, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Exelixis hired Goldman in anticipation of possible bids
after preliminary data on the treatment, XL184, was published
Nov. 17, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the situation is private. Some large pharmaceutical
companies have shown interest, the person said.  “We don’t comment on those types of reports which have
been around the company for a long time,” Charles Butler,
Exelixis’s vice president for  investor relations , said yesterday
in a telephone interview. “We have a long standing relationship
with Goldman Sachs, we just did a public offering with them.”  Shares of South San Francisco, California-based Exelixis
have more than doubled since publishing the data, which showed
the drug helped men with prostate cancer whose tumors had
reached the bone. The company said in December it would cut 260
jobs, about 65 percent of its workforce, and focus exclusively
on advancing XL184, also known as cabozantinib.  Exelixis has sole rights to the treatment, after New York-
based  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  ended a partnership with the
company in June. Exelixis also has drug development agreements
with closely held German drugmaker Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH and
Paris-based  Sanofi-Aventis SA. (SAN)   Goldman Sachs spokeswoman  Andrea Rachman  declined to
comment.  Exelixis rose 36 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $11.41 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  Biotechnology Deals  There have been 272 acquisitions of U.S. biotechnology
companies announced in the past 12 months with an average
disclosed deal size of $182 million and an average premium of 28
percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Michael Morrissey, a company executive since 2000, was
named chief executive officer in July to replace George Scangos,
who departed to become CEO of Weston, Massachusetts-based  Biogen
Idec Inc. (BIIB)  Exelixis was founded in 1994, sold shares for the
first time in 2000 and has conducted five additional share
offerings since. The most recent offering, completed on March 9,
raised $179 million.  The biotechnology company, which has no marketed products,
lost $92.3 million in 2010. Exelixis has accumulated a net loss
totaling almost $1.2 billion since it started and expects to
continue losing money “for the foreseeable future,” according
to the company’s annual report filed Feb. 22.  As part of its job reduction plan, Exelixis fired 143
employees in December and had 240 remaining employees as of Feb.
4, according to the annual report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Waters in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net ;
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 Sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  