-- 
Belarus Hunts Bombers After 12 Killed, 192 Hurt in Minsk Subway Explosion

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-04-12T15:51:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/explosion-on-subway-platform-in-belarus-capital-minsk-kills-7-injures-50.html
Belarus ordered a security
crackdown after at least 12 people died in a subway bombing that
the authorities classified as the first terrorist attack since
President Aleksandr Lukashenko came to power in 1994.  An explosive device went off during the evening rush hour,
wounding 192 people at the capital Minsk’s busiest metro
station, which is near the presidential residence, the  Interior
Ministry  and the Belarusian  security agency  said today in
separate statements on their websites. The agency still uses its
Soviet-era name, KGB.  Lukashenko ordered security tightened “to the uttermost”
and said the blast may have been orchestrated from abroad,
according to a  transcript  of an emergency government meeting
published on the president’s website late yesterday.  “Leave no stone unturned,” Lukashenko told security
officials at the meeting, according to the transcript. “They
won’t leave us in peace. I warned you about that. Who are they?
You need to hurry up and answer that question.”  The attack sought to destabilize the situation in the
country and may be indirectly linked with recent presidential
elections, the state-run news agency Belta reported today,
citing KGB Chairman Vadim Zaitsev.  EU Sanctions  Lukashenko, 56, whose government is under European Union
sanctions, extended his 16-year rule in December elections that
international observers condemned as undemocratic. The ex-Soviet
nation has been struggling to cope with foreign-currency
shortage after reserves dwindled, forcing the central bank to
devalue the ruble.  The explosion may act to “divert” the country’s attention
from the crisis amid “apparently unpopular measures being
implemented by the state,” Renaissance Capital analyst
Anastasiya Golovach said in an e-mailed research note today.  The Prosecutor General’s Office declared the blast “an act
of terrorism” and began a criminal investigation, Belarusian
state television said. The authorities detained three people in
connection with the explosion, including one suspect, Belta
cited Zaitsev as saying.  Belarus’s law-enforcement authorities have prepared a
composite sketch of an alleged attacker, a man of about 27 years
old of non-Slavic appearance, Zaitsev said, according to Belta.
The KGB chief added that the bomb had been radio-controlled. No
one has yet claimed responsibility for the attack.  ‘Serious Challenge’  Lukashenko, a former Soviet collective farm boss whose
regime was dubbed “ Europe ’s last dictatorship” by the U.S. in
2006, said his country is facing a “very serious challenge.”  The device went off as two trains were arriving at the
Oktyabrskaya station, where the capital’s two metro lines
intersect, Interior Minister Anatoly Kuleshov told Lukashenko at
their meeting. The bomb, which was equivalent to 5 kilograms (11
pounds) to 7 kilograms of TNT, left a crater 80 centimeters (31
inches) deep, he said.  “The event is shocking, not just as a terrorist attack but
also because it happened in Minsk, Belarus, a place which has
for a long time been considered highly stable in terms of
security,” VTB Capital analysts led by Alexei Moiseev in Moscow
said by e-mail. “One of the key positive factors in Belarus,
stability, has come under attack.”  Bonds Fall  Belarus sovereign bonds fell, extending yesterday’s
declines. The yield on 2015 dollar bonds jumped 5 basis points
to a weekly high of 10.924 percent as of 6:06 p.m. in Minsk. The
yield on 2018 dollar notes was up 7 basis points at 11.131
percent, the highest since April 4.  Belarus, which lies wedged between EU member Poland and
 Russia , transports about a fifth of Russian gas shipments to
Europe. It has been struggling to keep its public finances
afloat in recent weeks after foreign reserves dwindled and
ratings services downgraded the country’s debt. The government
is seeking a loan of $3 billion from Russia and other former
Soviet partners.  The central bank devalued the currency last month, allowing
local lenders to sell foreign currency to companies at an
 exchange rate  that deviates as much as 10 percent from the
official rate, widening the spread from 2 percent.  While Lukashenko relaxed his hold on the country before the
Dec. 19 election, his regime cracked down on demonstrators after
the vote, arresting more than 700 people, including opposition
candidates.  ‘Peaceful’ Opposition  “Belarus does not face any obvious terrorist threats,”
Timothy Ash, the head of emerging-market research at the Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said by e-mail. “Domestic
political opposition to the Lukashenko regime has also been
peaceful, and we doubt that they would want to escalate their
opposition to the administration by resort to violence; arguably
this would undermine the broad political support they have
received in the West.”  A bomb explosion in the capital during a concert attended
by Lukashenko in July 2008 was classified by law-enforcement
authorities as “hooliganism.” About 40 people were injured in
that incident.  The two events may be linked, Lukashenko said last night,
as he ordered the authorities to find those “seeking to benefit
from exploding the calm and stability in the country.”  Investigators from Russia’s Federal Security Service, or
FSB, the main successor to the KGB, arrived in Minsk to help
their Belarusian counterparts in the investigation, according to
Rossiya 24.  Russia has suffered a series of terrorist attacks in recent
years. Twin suicide subway bombings during the morning rush hour
in the Moscow subway killed 40 people a year ago. Doku Umarov, a
rebel from Russia’s mainly Muslim Chechnya region, claimed
responsibility for the attack.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  