-- 
Roth & Rau Agrees to Meyer Burger's $516 Million Bid, Closes Above Offer

-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-04-11T17:31:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/meyer-burger-makes-agreed-bid-for-german-photovoltaics-company-roth-rau.html
Roth & Rau AG (R8R)  agreed to  Meyer
Burger Technology AG (MBTN) ’s 357 million-euro ($516 million) takeover
bid to combine their solar-equipment units as photovoltaic panel
sales are set to surge this year.  Hohenstein, Germany-based Roth & Rau, which makes gear to
produce solar cells for panels, accepted a 22 euros-a-share bid
by Meyer Burger, the Swiss company said in a statement. Meyer
Burger had acquired an 11.3 percent stake from key shareholders.  Sales of solar panels, the most common device used to
generate power directly from sunlight, are forecast to boom
again this year as Chinese manufacturers such as JA Solar
Holdings Co., the world’s biggest, cut costs.  Meyer Burger “had a gap in the middle when it came to
solar cell equipment and the only pure play solar cell company
is Roth & Rau,” Lars Dannenberg, an analyst at Joh. Berenberg,
Gossler & Co. in  London , said in an interview. “From the
strategic point of view, it totally makes sense.”  Panel sales may increase by 30 percent this year to 24
gigawatts, the midpoint in a range forecast by Bloomberg New
Energy Finance, compared with 18.5 gigawatts sold last year.  “The Chinese companies are our customers and Roth & Rau
has a very important footprint in  China ,” Meyer Burger Chief
Executive Officer Peter Pauli said today in an interview.  Roth & Rau’s stock increased its year-to-date gain to 81
percent today, closing above the offer price at 22.30 euros, up
13 percent, in  Germany .  ‘Absolutely Fair’  “We are sure that we made an absolutely fair offer to the
market,” Pauli said. “What you see is only some guys who try
to play a game.”  The company, which lost money last year, had inventory
rising at an annual growth rate about 2.6 times faster than
sales, compared with the 1.7 times average for the Bloomberg
Global Leaders Solar Index, according to data through September.  The companies aim to consolidate their business units that
make photovoltaic products, Pauli said in the statement. “This
is just another step to sustainably reduce the costs of solar
power,” Pauli said.  Meyer Burger, a Steffisburg, Switzerland-based maker of
industrial cutting equipment and solar-power materials, will
finance the offer from its existing cash position and through a
syndicated  bank loan , the company said.  Meyer Burger shares fell as much as 4.6 percent in Zurich
and pared their loss to close down 0.2 percent at 41.40 francs.
The stock has risen 42 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net 
Todd White at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  