-- 
Facebook Is Said Not to Have Signed Agreement to Enter China

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-04-11T20:38:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/facebook-is-said-not-to-have-signed-agreement-to-enter-china.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s largest
social-networking service, hasn’t signed an agreement with a
Chinese business to enter the Asian nation, according to a
person familiar with the company’s plans.  Sohu.com, a Chinese Web portal, reported earlier today that
Facebook was working with Baidu Inc.,  China ’s dominant Internet-
search company, to set up a social-networking site in China. The
two forged a deal after several meetings between Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  and Baidu CEO Robin Li, Sohu.com said.
The report sent Baidu Inc. shares to a record high.  While Facebook has held talks with potential partners about
how to gain a foothold in China, the discussions have been
exploratory and may not result in an agreement, the person said.
The person asked not to be identified because the deliberations
are private.  Larry Yu, spokesman for Facebook, declined to comment
today. Kaiser Kuo, a spokesman at Beijing-based Baidu, earlier
declined to comment.  “We are currently studying and learning about China, as
part of evaluating any possible approaches that could benefit
our users, developers and advertisers,”  Palo Alto , California-
based Facebook said in an e-mailed statement on April 8.  Entering China would give Facebook access to the world’s
largest Internet market, with more than 457 million Web users.
People who want to get on the social network there now rely on
private-network services to circumvent firewalls that bar access
to information the government deems inappropriate.  Hong Kong  Office  Facebook said in February that it’s opening an office in
Hong Kong. While the aim is to focus on  Taiwan  and Hong Kong,
the location brings Facebook closer to advertisers in China,
where Susquehanna International Group LLP predicts the online
advertising market will triple to almost $13 billion by 2014.  China, which bans pornography, gambling and content
critical of the ruling Communist Party, also blocks Google
Inc.’s YouTube and other sites that don’t follow the nation’s
self-censorship rules. Google pulled its search engine out of
China last year after deciding it would stop censoring its
content.  Baidu’s American depositary receipts rose $3.80 to $145.68
at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The ADRs
have climbed 51 percent this year. Each receipt is worth 0.10
ordinary share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  