-- 
Facebook Reaches Deal for China Site With Baidu, Sohu Reports

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-04-11T07:42:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/facebook-reaches-deal-for-china-site-with-baidu-sohu-com-says.html
Facebook  Inc. has signed an
agreement with Baidu Inc. to set up a social-networking website
in China, Sohu.com reported, citing unidentified employees at
the Chinese search-engine company.  The agreement followed several meetings between Facebook
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  and Baidu CEO Robin Li,
Sohu.com  reported on its website today . The China website won’t
be integrated with Facebook’s international service, and the
start date is not confirmed, according to the report.  Kaiser Kuo, a spokesman at Beijing-based Baidu, declined to
comment on the report when reached by Bloomberg News. Stephen
Dolan, Singapore-based commercial director for Asia at Facebook,
also declined to comment.  Facebook, owner of the world’s most popular social-
networking service, has held talks with potential partners about
how to enter the Chinese market, a person familiar with the
matter said last week. The discussions have been exploratory and
may not result in an agreement, according to the person.  “We are currently studying and learning about  China , as
part of evaluating any possible approaches that could benefit
our users, developers and advertisers,” Palo Alto, California-
based Facebook said in an e-mailed statement at the time.  China Meetings  Baidu’s Li met Zuckerberg during the Facebook executive’s
visit to China in December, Kuo said at the time. Zuckerberg,
who also held meetings with other Chinese companies including
 China Mobile Ltd. (941)  and Sina Corp., said then that he was on
vacation in the Asian nation, the world’s biggest Internet
market by users.  Baidu, owner of China’s most-used search engine, plans to
develop more social-networking services, Li said on Feb. 1. The
commercial value of social products is “meaningful,” he said.  China bans pornography, gambling and content critical of
the ruling Communist Party, and blocks websites including
Facebook, Twitter Inc. and Google Inc.’s YouTube that don’t
follow the nation’s self-censorship rules. Google pulled its
search engine out of China last year after deciding it would
stop censoring its content.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  