-- 
Winklevoss Twins Seek Again to Re-Open Facebook Settlement

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-04-18T20:49:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/facebook-wins-decision-enforcing-65-million-winklevoss-twins-settlement.html
Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss are
seeking review of an April 11 court ruling they lost enforcing a
$65 million settlement with Facebook Inc. over their claims that
company founder  Mark Zuckerberg  stole the idea for the social
networking site.  A three-judge appeals court panel in San Francisco erred
when it rejected the Winklevoss brothers’ claims that the 2008
settlement should be voided because it was procured with fraud,
the twins’ attorney said in a court filing today. The brothers
want a rehearing before a larger panel of the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in San Francisco.  The Winkelvosses, former Harvard University classmates of
Zuckerberg’s, allege that Facebook didn’t disclose an accurate
valuation of its shares before they agreed to the cash and stock
settlement. The appeals court ruled that the accord, now worth
$100 million more than its original amount, barred any future
lawsuits and was “quite favorable” to the twins.  Whether the Winklevosses “would be better off financially
keeping the proceeds of the settlement rather than rescinding
and proceeding with their lawsuit against Facebook is a personal
judgment for them -- not an appellate court -- to make,” Jerome Falk, their attorney, said in the court filing.  The twins hired Zuckerberg to help build dating website
ConnectU Inc. while they were students at Harvard in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , in 2003. The Winklevosses and a partner, Divya Narendra, originally accused Zuckerberg in a lawsuit of stealing
their idea and delaying the ConnectU project while secretly
building Facebook.  Goldman Sachs  The Winklevosses alleged they should have received four
times as many shares as the settlement provided. Falk said in
January that the 2008 settlement is now worth $100 million more
than its original amount after  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  invested
$450 million in the social networking site, boosting the
company’s valuation to $50 billion.  “We appreciate the Ninth Circuit’s careful consideration
of this case and are pleased the court ruled in Facebook’s
favor,” Andrew Noyes, a Facebook spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement today about last week’s appeals court ruling. The
statement didn’t comment on the petition for rehearing.  The case is The Facebook Inc. v. ConnectU Inc., 08-16745,
9th U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  