-- 
Industrial Output Growth in India Unexpectedly Slows to 3.6% in February

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-04-11T10:24:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/february-industrial-production-in-india-increases-3-6-from-year-earlier.html
India’s industrial production
growth unexpectedly slowed in February, a deceleration that may
be insufficient to stop the central bank from raising  interest
rates  further.  Output at factories, utilities and mines rose 3.6 percent
from a year earlier after a revised 3.95 percent gain in January,
the government said in a statement in New Delhi today. The
median estimate of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 5.1 percent increase.  While production growth moderated, other data including the
purchasing managers’ index, car sales and credit expansion have
signaled that consumer demand is stoking price risks. Inflation
probably accelerated to 8.36 percent last month, exceeding the
central bank’s 8 percent forecast, according to the median
estimate in another Bloomberg News survey.  “Although the output data are volatile, consumer demand
remains strong,” said Meghna Patel, a Mumbai-based economist at
STCI Primary Dealer Ltd. “We think the RBI will need to tighten
rates more to gain control over inflation.”  She expects the central bank to raise borrowing costs by a
quarter of a percentage point at the next monetary policy
announcement scheduled for May 3. The Ministry of Commerce and
Industry is due to release inflation data on April 15.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index fell 1 percent,
extending losses for a fifth day. The yield on the 8.13 percent
note due September 2022 rose 5 basis points to 8.17 percent as
of 3:49 p.m. in Mumbai, the highest level since Feb. 11, while
the rupee weakened 0.6 percent to 44.35 to the dollar.  Growth Momentum  Manufacturing rose 3.5 percent in February from a year
earlier, slower than the 3.6 percent gain in January, today’s
report showed. Mining gained 0.6 percent, while electricity
output rose 6.7 percent. Capital goods production slid 18.4
percent.  “Even as industrial production continues to be volatile,
other indicators, such as the latest purchasing managers’ index,
direct and indirect tax collections, merchandise exports and
bank credit, suggest that the growth momentum persists,” the
central bank said in a March 17 statement.  India ’s industrial output has fluctuated since May, when it
registered a 12.2 percent expansion. The growth eased to 7.2
percent in June, rebounded to 15.1 percent in July, slid to 4.9
percent in September and then recovered in October, according to
government data.  Rate Increases  The slowdown in factory output is a “concern,” and the
March reading is likely to be even lower,  Kaushik Basu , chief
economic adviser to the ministry of finance told reporters in
New Delhi today. It may pick up from April, he said.  Reserve Bank  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao raised rates on
March 17 for the eighth time in a year, boosting the repurchase
rate by a quarter point to 6.75 percent after raising the
inflation forecast twice since late January. The price gauge
will reach 8 percent at the end of March compared with the 7
percent estimated on Jan. 25, he said.  “In the absence of a strong supply response, increasing
demand will inevitably lead to higher prices,” Reserve Bank
Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said April 5. He said a “monetary
response is warranted” should demand exceed supply and stoke
inflation.  India’s $1.3 trillion economy may expand as much as 9.25
percent in the year ending March 31, 2012, the  finance ministry 
said in February.  Capacity, Loans  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest carmaker,
plans to boost capacity by 21 percent in the current financial
year as part of investment plans totaling as much as 40 billion
rupees ($908 million), Chief Financial Officer Ajay Seth said in
an interview on April 6. The company’s sales climbed to a record
in March.  Recent data on bank loans show lenders are giving loans at
a faster pace than the central bank’s target. Commercial loans
rose 23 percent from the previous year as of March 11, more than
the 20 percent rate prescribed by the  Reserve Bank of India .  Manufacturing grew for a 24th straight month, with the
purchasing managers’ index holding unchanged at 57.9 in March
from February, when it accelerated at the fastest pace in three
months, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said April 1.  “Strong consumption and supply constraints are together
responsible for the high inflation,” said  Ramya Suryanarayanan ,
an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore . The
central bank needs to extend rate increases to restrain prices,
she said.  Budget Boost  Salaries in India this year may rise the most in the Asia-
Pacific region, fueling consumer demand, a survey by Aon Hewitt
LLC showed March 8. Spending under the government’s  National
Rural Employment Guarantee Act of 2005  has surged almost
fourfold to 399 billion rupees.  Demand may find more support from Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee’s budget for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012,
that plans to spur spending and exempt incomes below 180,000
rupees from tax, higher than the previous threshold of 160,000
rupees.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s coalition aims to put more
money in the hands of voters to help them cope with rising
prices and shore up support for five state elections in 2011.  Rising oil and commodity costs and sustained economic
growth are escalating pressure on Asian central banks to boost
borrowing costs.  China  on April 5 raised rates for the fourth
time since October.  Vietnam ,  Taiwan ,  South Korea  and  Thailand 
increased borrowing costs in March or April to curb inflation.  India relies on imports to meet three-quarters of its
annual energy needs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  