-- 
U.S. Fed’s Dudley Calls for More Cooperation Among Global Regulators

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-04-11T09:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/fed-s-dudley-calls-for-more-cooperation-among-global-regulators.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said regulators of financial
companies worldwide need to improve their coordination to
minimize the severity and frequency of market crises.  “We currently operate with a financial system that is
largely regulated on a country-by-country basis,” Dudley said
in the text of remarks for a speech in Tokyo today. “This is
not tenable. What’s required is not some global authority
dictating what national authorities can do but instead greater
cooperation and trust in exchanging information and agreement on
harmonized standards.”  Rules drawn up by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  and endorsed by the Group of 20 leaders last year
will require lenders to more than triple the highest-quality
capital they hold to cushion against losses by 2019. The
regulations may trim the return on equity of European banks, on
average, by 4 percentage points, and U.S. banks by 3 percentage
points, according to estimates by McKinsey & Co. consultants.  Dudley said additional  capital requirements  are needed for
“large global systemically important financial institutions,”
and that regulators must work to ensure a “relatively level
playing field” among countries so that companies don’t move
operations to areas with weak oversight.  “Every nation has an interest in promoting financial
stability globally, since the effects of systemic financial
stress in one place can swiftly spread throughout the global
economy,” Dudley said. “Moreover, although a relatively loose
regulatory regime may attract business from other financial
centers, there is no free lunch here. A more lax regulatory
regime is likely to expose that country’s taxpayers to huge tail
risks.”  More Transparency  The New York Fed has led regulators including the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority and
 Germany ’s Federal Financial Supervisory Authority in seeking
increased transparency and less risk from over-the-counter
derivatives markets.  Regulators also need “greater clarity” on the regulatory
duties of a bank’s home and host country, how emergency funding
should be allotted on a “cross-border basis” and the plans for
winding down large global companies that fail, Dudley said.  “There is much work that lies ahead,” Dudley said. “We
need to be persistent.”  The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law by President Barack Obama in July, overhauled regulation of the U.S. financial
system with the goal of reducing the risks of financial crises.  The legislation also expanded the Fed’s authority by giving
it responsibility for overseeing non-bank financial firms deemed
“too big to fail” because their collapse might pose a risk to
the financial system.  “The political unrest in the Middle East and North Africa
underscores once again the fact that we operate in a shared
world economy in which events in one country and region can have
large impacts globally,” Dudley said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net 
Aki Ito in  Tokyo  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  