-- 
N.Y. Fed Director’s Puerto Rico Bank Loses on Nephew’s Loan

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-04-11T20:32:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/fed-director-s-bank-burned-twice-on-one-project-as-loan-to-ceo-s-kin-sours.html
Popular Inc. (BPOP) , Puerto Rico’s largest
lender, amassed record losses during the credit crisis and got a
$935 million injection from U.S. taxpayers. Now a loan to a real
estate venture overseen by the chief executive officer’s nephew
is burning a hole in the bank’s books.  Popular loaned the money two years ago to a developer
controlled by Jose Vizcarrondo, whose uncle, Richard Carrion, is
the bank’s CEO, according to a March proxy filing. Vizcarrondo’s
company used the cash to buy a residential project in Puerto
Rico that had defaulted on an earlier debt to Popular, the
 filing  shows. Pouring more money into the project hasn’t worked
out: Popular said it wrote off more than half the $15.7 million.  Add that Vizcarrondo, 49, is a Popular board member who
until two months ago helped set Carrion’s pay, and the saga
exposes conflicts of interest and potential weaknesses in the
bank’s governance, according to Professor  James Post  of Boston
University in  Massachusetts .  “This deal does smell like rotten fish,” said Post, who
was  co-author  of “Redefining the Corporation,” a study of
governance and accountability. “It immediately raises the
question: Have there been other deals of this sort that have
gone on, and are shareholders entitled to know about that?”  The loan is among the latest “related-party transactions”
between Vizcarrondo and Popular, which paid companies linked to
him at least $33 million since 2004, regulatory filings show.
The bank posted $1.87 billion of losses from 2007 through 2009
under Carrion, who has been Popular’s CEO since 1994 and a
director of the Federal Reserve Board of  New York  since 2008.  Distressed Loans  The debt of Vizcarrondo’s firm, TP Two LLC, was included in
a $500 million package of mostly distressed loans put up for
sale in January, according to Popular. Regulators haven’t
accused the bank, Carrion or Vizcarrondo of wrongdoing, and
Vizcarrondo left Popular’s compensation committee after TP Two’s
debt soured, according to the proxy.  “We maintain internal procedures that require that all
related-party transactions be reviewed and approved by our  audit
committee , which is composed entirely of independent
directors,” Ignacio Alvarez, the bank’s chief legal officer,
said in an e-mailed statement. There’s no blanket prohibition on
such transactions, which sometimes “may be in the best interest
of the corporation and its shareholders,” he said.  Carrion, 58, Vizcarrondo, 49, and the New York Fed declined
to comment.  Popular’s Reach  Popular, organized in 1893, owns  Banco Popular  del Puerto
Rico and acquired local lender Westernbank after it failed last
April. The company has 185 branches on the island and more than
100 in New York,  New Jersey ,  California ,  Illinois ,  Florida  and
the Virgin Islands, according to the company’s annual filing
with securities regulators.  The lender ranks 38th among firms supervised by the Fed,
with $38.7 billion in assets and deposits of $26.8 billion,
according to the company. It’s fifth on the list of commercial
banks still holding funds from the $700 billion Troubled Asset
Relief Program, the taxpayer-funded program for U.S. financial
companies. Popular posted net income last year of $137 million
after a $574 million loss in 2009.  Regulators bolstered Popular with TARP funds in November
2008 as write-offs surged on subprime residential mortgages and
commercial and construction loans. As commercial real estate
defaults continued to mount in 2009, Popular sought to dispose
of a partly occupied 70-unit residential development of houses
and condominiums in the suburbs of Dorado on  Puerto Rico ’s
northern coast, said Teruca Rullan, a company spokeswoman.  General Contractor  The bank had financed the project and seized it after a
default by the owner, Treasure Point Corp., which used
Desarrollos Metropolitanos LLC as its general contractor, Rullan
said. Jose Vizcarrondo is CEO of Desarrollos, a construction
company with about $33 million of revenue in 2010, according to
this year’s Popular proxy.  Popular sold the site in August 2009 for $13.5 million to
TP Two, a firm controlled by Vizcarrondo and his father, Julio Vizcarrondo Jr., 76, according to the bank’s 2004 proxy. Julio
was a Popular director from 1990 until 2004, the same year his
son joined the board, according to Rullan and the bank’s 2004
proxy. He’s also Carrion’s brother-in-law, the bank said. He
declined to comment.  The Vizcarrondos outbid two other “reputable” developers
and builders, the bank said in this year’s proxy filing.  ‘His Offer Was Better’  “We looked at another offer from another party to buy that
property,” Alvarez said in a phone interview. “This was a
workout situation. His offer was better. We thought his
knowledge of the property was better.”  Popular financed the sale to TP Two with a $10 million loan
and $13 million line of credit, and $15.7 million remains
outstanding, Rullan said. This loan is now non-performing, the
bank said.  The bank announced Jan. 31 that it planned to sell about
$500 million of loans, 75 percent of which were non-performing.
The Vizcarrondo loan is included in this batch, Rullan said.
Popular has written off $8.6 million from the value of the loan
in advance of the sale, she said.  The Vizcarrondos’ company “continues to pay the loan as
the units are sold,” and isn’t in default, Rullan said. “In
the current real estate market, sales have been lower than
anticipated. The loan is payable from the proceeds received from
the sales of residences.”  Jose Vizcarrondo received $99,000 in total Popular
compensation -- including stock -- in 2010 and beneficially owns
249,621 Popular shares, according to a regulatory filing. The
shares advanced 7 cents to $3.10 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading
today. They’ve dropped 1.3 percent for 2011 and 85 percent in
the past five years.  ‘Better Understanding’  “His knowledge of the  construction industry  is of benefit
to the board as it provides a better understanding of the real
estate industry, which has experienced a material deterioration
in recent years and represents a material risk to the
corporation,” according to the proxy filing.  Vizcarrondo asked the bank’s board not to consider him an
independent director because of the “non-performing status” of
the loan and he resigned from Popular’s compensation committee
Feb. 18 as a result, according to this year’s proxy. He still
serves on the bank’s risk committee.  “He was not an independent director and my firm would not
consider him an independent director,” said  Nell Minow , editor
for GovernanceMetrics International, a corporate governance
research company in New York. “There’s an inherent conflict of
interest there that cannot be resolved.”  Paulson’s Stake  Popular’s biggest shareholder, with a 6.55 percent stake as
of Dec. 31, is the New York-based hedge fund Paulson & Co., run
by billionaire  John Paulson , according to Bloomberg data.
Paulson made $15 billion betting against subprime lenders during
the financial crisis.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for the fund,
declined to comment.  Puerto Rico home prices rose 54 percent from 2000 through
the third quarter of 2008, according to seasonally adjusted
figures from the  Federal Housing Finance Agency . Prices fell 8.9
percent since then through the second quarter of 2010. About
20,000 completed or unfinished homes remain unsold as of this
year, according to Hans Moll, president of the Puerto Rico
Homebuilders Association.  “With the significant consolidation that is occurring in
the Puerto Rico banking market, we continue to believe Banco
Popular will emerge from the crisis in a significantly better
position,” Christopher Neczypor, an analyst with  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , said in an April 10 report.  Construction Contracts  Desarrollos isn’t the only company linked to Vizcarrondo to
gain from Popular contracts. The bank paid $33 million from 2004
through 2006 to Metropolitan Builders SE, a firm in which
Vizcarrondo is a partner, proxy filings show. This company was
awarded construction contracts valued at $52 million in 2002,
the filings show.  The bank told shareholders about the contracts in its 2004
proxy when Vizcarrondo was first nominated as a director,
according to Alvarez’s e-mail. Shareholders “voted to elect him
notwithstanding,” he wrote.  Carrion’s overall compensation, including stock, increased
67 percent last year to $1.8 million, according to the proxy
filing. The bank could make a profit this year of about $111
million, according to a Bloomberg survey of six analysts.  N.Y. Fed Director  Carrion became a director of the New York Fed in January
2008 and was  reelected  to another three-year term in December,
according to the regulator’s  website .  As a Class A director, Carrion was elected by other banks
regulated by the New York Fed as one of their representatives on
the board. The other Class A directors are JPMorgan Chase & Co.
CEO Jamie Dimon and Charles Wait, head of the Adirondack Trust
Co.  Jack Gutt , a New York Fed spokesman, declined to comment on
Popular’s loan to TP Two.  Carrion didn’t set the TP Two deal in motion, wasn’t part
of the approval process and abstained from all board votes
relating to the TP Two deal, said Rullan, the bank spokeswoman.
All the transactions involving Vizcarrondo were “fully vetted
by the board of directors and properly disclosed to investors,”
according to the bank.  “Carrion was either the initiator or he allowed it to go
forward,” said Post at  Boston University . While one data point
doesn’t make a trend, he said, “it raises troubling questions
about the commitment to loyalty to the corporation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 