-- 
Fed Paper Says Securities Holdings Pose ‘Modest’ Risk of Financial Losses

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-04-11T18:44:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/fed-paper-says-holdings-under-asset-buying-program-pose-a-modest-risk.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s record
expansion of its balance sheet to $2.65 trillion could expose
the central bank to a “modest” risk of financial losses when
interest rates rise, according to a San Francisco Fed paper.  “The combination of a larger securities portfolio with a
longer duration implies that the Fed is taking on more interest
rate risk than usual,” Glenn Rudebusch, the acting director of
research at the San Francisco Fed, said in a paper released by
the bank today. The Fed will most likely remain profitable, he
said.  The central bank earned a record $82.9 billion in interest
income last year on a roughly $2 trillion portfolio of
securities, most of which were acquired in the central bank’s
two rounds of large-scale asset purchases, aimed at ending the
recession and supporting the economic recovery. The Fed paid for
the assets by creating around $1 trillion in reserves at banks,
on which the central bank pays 0.25 percent interest.  While the Fed’s interest income is largely based on assets
with fixed rates, its liabilities would rise if short-term
 interest rates  rose. Former Fed Governor Frederic Mishkin has
warned that a rise in interest rates could thus cause losses for
the central bank.  “Short-term interest rates would have to rise rapidly to
quite high levels -- in the neighborhood of 7 percent -- for the
Fed’s interest expenses to surpass its interest income,”
 Rudebusch  said.  Capital Losses  The Fed would also take capital losses if the market price
of its assets fell, Rudebusch said. “If the Fed sold securities
and realized losses, its net income would be reduced.”  Using the Blue Chip economic forecasts, compiled from a
survey of economists, for the likely path of interest rates, the
Fed would remain profitable, earning no less than $30 billion a
year. Even in a more adverse scenario, “the Fed’s capital base
would be maintained by letting remittances to the Treasury fall
to zero. In the most extreme case, future remittances would also
be reduced,” Rudebusch said.  “Such interest rate risk appears modest, especially to the
Fed’s policy objectives of full employment and price
stability,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  