-- 
France Bolsters Border Controls as ‘Migration Crisis’ Heats Up

-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 
2011-04-11T15:29:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/france-bolsters-border-controls-as-migration-crisis-heats-up.html
France  increased security on its
borders amid a “Mediterranean migration crisis” and will
continue to send back arrivals who don’t meet admission
requirements, the interior minister said.  Additional national security agents have been deployed to
support local border police in response to the “real pressure”
on France’s borders, Claude Gueant said today at a meeting of
European Union interior ministers in Luxembourg. “We’ll use all
legal means to ensure that the Schengen convention is
respected.”  Gueant’s comments came after  Italy  began last week to issue
temporary residence permits to arrivals from North Africa, which
Italy says allow them to travel to France and other European
countries. “Italy is entitled to do so, of course,” EU Home
Affairs Commissioner Cecilia Malmstroem said today in
 Luxembourg .  More than 25,000 immigrants have arrived in Italy after
fleeing North Africa this year, prompting Italy to establish
temporary camps across the country. Most of the arrivals are
from Tunisia, where border controls are lacking after its
government was overthrown in January.  The EU’s Schengen treaty on borders and movement between
member states allows France to refuse entry to anyone without a
valid passport and sufficient funds to return home after his
stay, Gueant said. “This is what we’re going to do, of
course.”  ‘Massive Influx’  The ministers in Luxembourg “discussed in depth” the
possibility of activating a temporary protection mechanism to
impose stricter immigration standards in times of a “massive
influx,” Malmstroem said. While acknowledging that “there is
huge pressure on Italy,” she said it would be “premature” to
impose stronger measures now.  “We are not ready yet to launch that mechanism,”
Malmstroem said.  French authorities have intercepted 2,800 Tunisians trying
to enter from Italy in the last month, Gueant said. Of these,
1,700 were returned to Italy and almost 200 directly to  Tunisia .
Repatriation of the remaining Tunisians was in process, he said.  “Italy has been left alone,” Italian Interior Minister
Roberto Maroni told reporters today in Luxembourg. “I wonder if
it makes sense to continue to be part of the European Union in
this situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Henry in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  