-- 
Fuel-Tanker Bookings to Japan Rise 59% After Quake, Tsunami

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-04-12T06:54:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/fuel-tanker-bookings-to-japan-rise-59-after-quake-tsunami.html
Bookings of tankers to ship fuels
to  Japan  rose 59 percent in the three weeks after the nation’s
devastating earthquake and tsunami damaged refineries and power-
generation plants.  At least 84 ships, scheduled to carry 6.2 million metric
tons of fuels, were booked to sail to Japan from the Middle East,
 Asia  and  Europe  as demand for imported  fuel oil  and crude surged,
according to vessel transmissions captured by Bloomberg and ship
fixtures compiled from  Clarkson Research . That compares with at
least 53 vessels booked for 3.3 million tons of fuels in the
three weeks before the quake, the data show. Japan, the world’s
third-biggest oil user and an exporter of gasoil, shut about 29
percent of its refining capacity in the aftermath of the quake.  “That’s quite a significant increase,” said  Neil Beveridge , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  Hong Kong .
“This has definitely been driven by power-generation needs.”  The country faces a greater need for refined products as it
seeks to make up for lost nuclear-power generation capacity and
refining capability.  The number of ships scheduled to carry fuel oil tripled
after the quake while those transporting crude oil more than
doubled, outpacing the increase in tankers set to carry other
products, the data show. Crude oil fixtures rose to 14 from six,
while three tankers were booked to carry fuel oil compared with
none before March 11. Vessels for naphtha rose to 44 from 39.  “Maybe they’re using domestic refineries to produce more
fuel oil,” Sanford’s Beveridge said. “There’s a lot of spare
capacity at some of these refineries because of the decline in
domestic consumption.”  Oil Price  Brent crude futures in  London  fell 94 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to $123.04 a barrel at 2:29 p.m. Singapore time on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Prices gained 24 percent in the
previous quarter and are up 45 percent from a year ago.  The Aquarius Wing, a crude tanker, left the Middle East in
early April and was last spotted in the Indian Ocean sailing to
Japan, ship transmissions show. The vessel was hired to
transport about 265,000 tons of oil to the country, the Clarkson
data show.  Demand for fuel oil, burned at power plants and in ship
engines, has risen as power shortages occur across the country.
The earthquake and tsunami damaged coal, oil, gas-fired and
nuclear  power plants , including the Fukushima Dai-Ichi facility,
site of the world’s worst atomic accident since Chernobyl a
quarter century ago.  Japan will need approximately 250,000 barrels a day of fuel
oil or 22,000 tons a day of liquefied natural gas to make up for
about 8,600 megawatts of nuclear generation capacity that was
lost from its damaged nuclear plants,  Christophe Barret , Credit
Agricole SA’s London-based analyst, said in a report March 18.  Freight rates for Very Large Crude Carriers traveling from
the Middle East to Japan fell 27 percent in the three weeks
after the earthquake and were at Worldscale 49.79 on April 4.
The cost of chartering a VLCC rose to Worldscale 54.53 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at   akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  