-- 
Ghana Lacks Key Safeguards for Regulating Its Oil, Gas Industry Group Says

-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-04-11T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/ghana-lacks-key-safeguards-for-regulating-oil-gas-group-says.html
Ghana  has failed to implement key
contracting and environmental safeguards for the country’s
fledgling oil and gas industry, a coalition of transparency
groups said in a report.  The West African nation hasn’t publicly disclosed contracts
with companies including U.K.-based  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , operator of
the country’s offshore Jubilee field, and continues to negotiate
exploration contracts in private rather than through open
tenders, according to the  Civil Society Platform on Oil and Gas
in Ghana , which is sponsored by  Oxfam America , the  World Bank 
and the  Revenue Watch Institute .  “Ghana must follow the examples of Liberia, Peru and
 Ecuador  who disclose their contracts regularly on government
websites,” the report said. “With closed-door negotiations and
wide latitude for government negotiators, there is a risk of
corruption.”  Ghana began production from Jubilee last year and output is
expected to reach 120,000 barrels per day this year. Companies
including Switzerland-based Vitol Group, Houston-based Vanco
Energy Co. and Rome-based  Eni SpA (ENI)  are among those with
exploration permits in the area around Jubilee.  Ghana’s environmental agencies aren’t able to properly
monitor the industry, as was demonstrated by their response to
the spill of oil-based drilling mud by Kosmos Energy Ltd. in
2009 and 2010, the report said.  Inadequate Equipment  A government committee recommended Kosmos pay a 40 million
cedi ($26 million) fine for the discharge, even as it said
Ghana’s environmental agency didn’t have “adequate equipment or
capacity” to probe spills.  Ghana and Kosmos, which is a partner in the Jubilee field
and is backed by private equity firms  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and
Warburg Pincus LLP, settled the matter along with a number of
other disputes in December. President John Atta Mills declined
to provide details of the settlement at a press conference in
January, or say whether Kosmos had paid a fine.  The group praised the passage of an oil revenue management
bill by  Ghana ’s Parliament last month. That bill requires the
publication of oil earnings in newspapers and establishes a
savings fund to cushion the country against price shocks and
establishes a public oversight committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason McLure in Accra on 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  