-- 
Ghosn's No. 2 Resigns After Government Pressures Renault in Spying Scandal

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-04-12T11:40:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/ghosn-s-no-2-resigns-after-government-pressures-renault-in-spying-scandal.html
Renault SA (RNO)  Chief Executive Officer
 Carlos Ghosn  will lose his second-in-command after Patrick Pelata resigned, bowing to pressure from the French government
to take responsibility for a botched espionage probe.  Pelata will stay on temporarily as chief operating officer
before moving to a role within the carmaker’s alliance with
Nissan Motor Co. Ltd., the Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based
company said late yesterday. Four other executives directly
involved in the flawed internal probe will also leave.  The resignations follow calls from the French government,
the carmaker’s biggest shareholder, for Renault to take further
action for the wrongful firing of three senior executives.
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said those responsible for
the affair “must depart.” Pelata had offered to resign last
month and Ghosn refused to accept it.  “It might appease the French government, but Renault
shareholders seem to be losing more than they gain at this
point,” said  David Arnold , an analyst at Credit Suisse in
 London . “We struggle to see the benefits to Renault from the
decision to remove Pelata.”  Renault admitted last month it was tricked into wrongfully
firing three senior managers after the company incorrectly
concluded they had received payments from Chinese companies via
foreign accounts. The carmaker did not name a successor for
Pelata, who took over day-to-day control from Ghosn in 2008.  Shares Drop  Renault fell as much as 1.27 euros, or 3.3 percent, to
37.72 euros in Paris trading, its lowest since March 16. The
stock was down 3 percent as of 1:38 p.m., extending its slide
this year to 13 percent, the second-worst performance on the 14-
member Stoxx 600 Automobiles & Parts Index after Porsche SE.  Lagarde welcomed the announced reorganization and
departures, which she said conformed to “guidance offered by
the government.” She and Industry Minister Eric Besson will
meet Ghosn in coming months “to review industrial strategy with
a view to reinforcing the Renault-Nissan alliance,” she said in
an e-mailed statement.  The board of directors agreed at an emergency meeting on
the departure of Laurence Dors, the company’s general secretary;
human resources manager Jean-Yves Coudriou; Legal Director
Christian Husson and Director of Security Remi Pagnie.  The Renault board also approved a draft settlement
negotiated with the three wrongfully dismissed executives:
upstream development Michel Balthazard, his former subordinate
Bertrand Rochette and electric-car deputy program chief Matthieu Tenenbaum. The automaker didn’t disclose any details.  ‘Difficult Page’  “This board meeting turned a difficult page in the history
of Renault,” Ghosn said in the statement. “Besides the
managers involved, all the group’s employees have suffered.”  Renault’s main CGT union today voiced dissatisfaction with
the board’s decision.  “The dismissal of a certain number of executives won’t
change anything unless there’s a structural overhaul of
management’s role at all levels,” the union said in an e-mailed
statement. “It’s astonishing to see Ghosn absolved of all
responsibility after he proclaimed the three victims’ guilt in
the national media.”  Renault’s board examined the findings of an audit ordered
last month to establish the roles and responsibilities of
executives involved in the spy case.  The inquiry revealed “failings and dysfunction within the
company, particularly in the control and supervision of its
security department,” the automaker said. The audit also found
that “the manner in which the investigation was conducted was
deliberately hidden from the board,” Renault said.  ‘Satisfying Settlement’  Security manager Dominique Gevrey, who obtained more than
300,000 euros ($434,000) from the carmaker to pay an anonymous
source for the information, was arrested on fraud charges after
the espionage claims unraveled. An internal security department
reorganization at Renault will be supervised by French  law
enforcement , the carmaker said.  “It is a very satisfying settlement,” said Xavier
Thouvenin, a lawyer for Balthazard. He declined to specify how
much the former executive will receive. The unanimity of the
board’s decision was “very important to us” and ends his
client’s wrongful firing complaint, he said.  Tenebaum’s lawyer, Thibault de Montbrial, said his client
will return to a post at the carmaker. Rochette’s lawyer didn’t
return calls for comment.  The criminal investigation into how
the three men were targeted continues, Thouvenin said.  “We still want to know who started it,” he said. “That
will be the end of the story.”  Close Associate  Pelata has been a close associate of Ghosn for more than a
decade. Ghosn, who also heads Japanese affiliate Nissan, refused
an earlier resignation offer from Pelata over the espionage
case, the carmaker said March 14.  The 55-year-old Pelata, who ran day-to-day affairs at
 Europe ’s second-largest carmaker, graduated from  France ’s elite
Ecole Polytechnique in the same 1974 class as Ghosn, before
joining Renault as head of bodywork assembly at the carmaker’s
plant in Flins, west of Paris.  In 1999, when Ghosn was sent by then CEO Louis Schweitzer
to rescue Nissan from near-bankruptcy, he took Pelata with him
and the two have worked closely together ever since.  “Sacrificing the number two is a way of refocusing public
attention on Renault, its business and its electronic car
program,” said Christopher Mesnooh, a Paris-based lawyer with
Field Fisher Waterhouse, who isn’t involved in the case.  Pelata “will continue to manage operations until his
departure from Renault,” when he will move to another job
within the automaker’s alliance with Nissan, the carmaker said.  The company also negotiated an agreement with Philippe Clogenson, a fourth executive wrongfully dismissed in 2009, who
will return to work next month as business development director
for Renault Consulting, Renault said.  The resignations and settlement won’t end the affair given
the ongoing criminal case, Mesnooh said. “This is going to take
several interesting twists and turns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 