-- 
Google Products Lacked Key Government Security Certification, DOJ Says

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-04-11T19:41:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/google-products-lacked-key-government-security-certification-doj-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Internet-based
software applications for government customers don’t have a key
security certification, contrary to the company’s claims in a
lawsuit over a multimillion-dollar contract, the  U.S. Department
of Justice  said in a December legal filing.  In a filing unsealed April 8, the  Justice Department  said
it “appears” that Google Apps for Government software doesn’t
have Federal Information Security Management Act certification,
“notwithstanding Google’s representations to the public at
large, its counsel, the GAO (Government Accountability Office)
and this court.” A different version of Google Apps received
the certification last year, the Justice Department wrote.  Google sued the U.S. Interior Department in October,
arguing that a planned $49.3 million contract to provide e-mail
and online-collaboration services lacked sufficient competition
and gave favorable treatment to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which was set
to be awarded the contract. The Justice Department comments were
part of a government filing seeking a judgment in favor of the
U.S. and dismissal of Google’s complaint.  “We did not mislead the court or our customers,” said
David Mihalchik, an executive with the Google Enterprise unit,
in an e-mailed statement. “Google Apps received a FISMA
security authorization from the  General Services Administration 
in July 2010. Google Apps for Government is the same system with
enhanced security controls that go beyond FISMA requirements. As
planned we’re working with GSA to continuously update our
documentation with these and other additional enhancements.”  Applications Pending  The case is being heard by U.S. Court of Federal Claims
Judge Susan Braden in  Washington . Braden issued an order on Jan.
3 preventing the agency from proceeding with the official award
of the contracts.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , is in the
process of finishing its application to get FISMA certification
for Google Apps for Government. The Microsoft product that the
Interior Department chose, BPOS-Federal, is also going through
the certification process as part of a contract Microsoft has
with the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  “This case is about the  Department of Interior  limiting
its proposal to one product that isn’t even FISMA certified, so
this question is unrelated to our request that DOI allow for a
true competition when selecting its technology providers,”
Mihalchik said.  Temporary Authority  Microsoft has a temporary authority to operate from USDA as
part of its contract with that agency, and the final
certification is expected soon, said Kevin Kutz, a spokesman for
Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft.  “Google can’t be under the misimpression that FISMA
certification for Google Apps Premier also covers Google Apps
for Government,” wrote  David Howard , a Microsoft deputy general
counsel, in a  posting  on the company’s “Microsoft on the
Issues” blog. “If that were the case, then why did Google,
according to the attachments in the DOJ brief, decide to file a
separate FISMA application for Google Apps for Government?”  The case is Google Inc. v. U.S., 10-743, U.S. Court of
Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  