-- 
Gridlock Good for Treasuries With Gap to Bunds Narrowing

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-04-11T15:04:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/gridlock-good-for-treasuries-with-gap-to-bunds-narrowing-to-six-month-low.html
The big winner in the battle over
the U.S. government budget may be the bond market, as investors
say for the first time since the onset of the financial crisis
they see lawmaker resolve to trim the $1 trillion deficit.  “The market doesn’t care where you cut, as long as you are
cutting, and we are starting to see that,” said  Tad Rivelle ,
head of fixed-income investment at Los Angeles-based TCW Group
Inc., which oversees about $115 billion. “The budget-cutting
environment is bond friendly.”  Optimism that Congress will rein in spending has driven
yields on 10-year U.S. government notes to the lowest level
relative to German bunds since September. Traders are paying the
least to insure Treasuries against losses with credit-default
swaps than at any time since August, according to CMA prices.  Budget cuts would mean the U.S. wouldn’t sell as much debt,
which has grown to $9.13 trillion in marketable Treasuries from
$4.34 billion in mid-2007 as the government boosted spending to
pull the economy out of recession.  A shrinking bond market may help contain borrowing costs,
allowing Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to continue
financing the deficit at some of the lowest interest rates on
record.  “Despite the political back-and-forth, any headwinds on
spending cuts provide a good environment for Treasuries as the
tone is shifting in the right direction,” said Jack McIntyre, a
fund manager who oversees $21 billion in debt at Brandywine
Global Investment Management in Philadelphia.  Budget Agreement  U.S. Congress leaders and President Barack Obama agreed
late on April 8 to cut about $38 billion from federal spending
this year, pulling the government back from the brink of a
shutdown. The final compromise slashes about $23 billion less
than Republicans had initially sought, yet tens of billions more
than Democrats originally said they could accept.  Ten-year yields rose 13.5 basis points last week, or 0.135
percentage point, to 3.58 percent in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The benchmark 3.625 percent note
due February 2021 fell 1 4/32, or $12.50 per $1,000 face amount,
to 100 11/32. The yield was 3.60 percent today as of 11:01 a.m.
in New York.  Although yields increased in the five days ended April 8,
they are down from 3.88 percent a year ago and remain below the
average of 5.22 percent over the last two decades even with the
U.S. projected to post a deficit in excess of $1 trillion for a
third-consecutive year.  Yield Forecasts  Treasury 10-year yields will remain below 4 percent through
year-end, according to the median forecast of 70 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The difference between 10-year U.S. and German yields
narrowed to 5 basis points on April 4. As recently as February,
Treasuries yielded almost 50 basis points more than bunds.  Derivatives tied to  U.S. government debt  show investors’
perceptions of America’s creditworthiness is improving.  Credit-default swaps on Treasuries fell to as low as 36.2
basis points last week, down from this year’s high of 51.5 basis
points on Jan. 27 and last year’s high of 59.7 in February. The
price levels are the seventh-lowest of 51 sovereign debt markets
tracked by Bloomberg and CMA.  Debt Service  Low borrowing costs mean that the U.S. is spending less to
service its debt as a percentage of gross domestic product.
Interest expense was 2.7 percent of GDP in fiscal 2010 ended
Sept. 30, down from 3.8 percent in 2001, the last time the U.S.
had a budget surplus, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Any optimism that the deficit will be reduced is misplaced,
according to Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of
government and agency debt trading at RW Pressprich & Co., a
fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional investors.  At about 10 percent of the gross domestic product, the U.S.
deficit is biggest of any government rated AAA, according to
 Fitch Ratings .  “They really have to take more significant action to cut
spending before we see a longer term impact on Treasuries,”
Milstein said. “The billions that are being cut are nothing
compared to the trillions that we have to deal with.”  Bond bears say the only thing supporting the Treasury
market is investors seeking safety amid geopolitical turmoil and
uprisings in the Middle East in North Africa, and the nuclear
crisis in  Japan  following a record earthquake and tsunami.  European Bond Markets  Europe ’s bond markets show what can happen to nations that
fail to get their fiscal spending in order. Within the last
year,  Greece , Ireland and Portugal have sought European Union
and  International Monetary Fund  bailouts after their debt yields
rose to records.  “Failure to reduce the  budget deficit  and stabilize public
debt would, eventually, erode confidence in U.S. sovereign
creditworthiness and its AAA status,” Fitch said last week.  The rising deficit is failing to deter international
investors and central banks from U.S. financial assets.  As of January, $4.45 trillion of Treasuries were owned by
investors outside the U.S., up from $3.7 trillion a year
earlier, according to the latest government data.  The dollar’s share of global currency reserves stood at
61.4 percent at the end of 2010, little changed from 61.5
percent in 2009, the IMF in  Washington  said March 31. The euro’s
share dipped to 26.3 percent from 27.9 percent.  Cash Boost  Bill Gross, who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., last month set a bet against
U.S. government-related debt and boosted cash to be the largest
of the Total Return Fund’s holdings.  Pimco’s $236 billion fund had minus 3 percent of its assets
in government and related debt, the Newport Beach, California-
based company said on its website, after reducing the position
to zero in February.  The Total Return Fund can have a negative position by
shorting or using other strategies. Shorting is borrowing and
selling an asset in anticipation of making a profit by buying it
back after its price has fallen.  “The U.S. is not Ireland, nor is it Greece, nor is it
Portugal,” said  George Goncalves , head of interest-rate
strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., one of 20 primary dealers that
trade directly with the  Federal Reserve . “Our foreign investors
as well as those who have to be invested in liquid rate products
are not going to be deterred or hold back from buying when they
have to because of this event.”  During the last government shutdown in 1995 bonds rallied,
with two year notes falling almost 30 basis points to 5.17
percent. The Treasury had about $3 trillion in marketable debt
outstanding then.  ‘Smoke and Mirrors’  Bonds also look attractive on the prospect that budget
cutbacks will lead to reduced federal support for municipal
governments, slowing the economy, said  Jeffrey Gundlach , who
runs DoubleLine Capital LP in  Los Angeles .  “You are creating a smoke and mirrors recovery based on
money that is unsustainable so you need to either raise taxes or
cut government spending,” said Gundlach, who was a finalist in
2009 for Morningstar’s fixed-income manager of the decade.
“Either of those things will be a body blow to the economy.”  President  Barack Obama  said last week that too severe
budget cuts threaten the recovery just as it is gaining
momentum. Gross domestic product may expand 2.92 percent this
year, according to the median of 89 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The International Monetary Fund lowered its forecast for
U.S. growth this year, predicting higher  oil prices  and the pace
of job gains will restrain the recovery.  The world’s largest economy will expand 2.8 percent this
year, down from the 3 percent projected in January, the
Washington-based IMF said today.  Borrowing Threshold  “The budget cuts are drops in the bucket but it is a sign
that they are willing to start chipping away at this
unsustainable debt situation,” said Anthony Valeri, a market
strategist in San Diego at LPL Financial Corp., which oversees
$293 billion of assets. “The bigger issue is the debt
ceiling.”  The Treasury estimates the Congressionally mandated
borrowing limit of $14.29 trillion will be reached by mid-July
at the latest. Republican lawmakers such as Representative
 Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota say they won’t vote to raise the
country’s borrowing threshold without further slashing spending.  Since the government shut down non-essential services in
1995 the borrowing threshold has been increased 12 times. In
half of those instances, Congress waited until the ceiling had
been reached before it was adjusted.  Critical Payments  If Congress does not raise the limit in time, the U.S.
would need to cut critical payments and would see a surge in
 interest rates , Geithner told Congress on April 5.  “The consequences of that would be catastrophic to the
 United States ,” he said. “It would make the crisis we went
through look modest in comparison.”  As the Treasury moves closer to the debt ceiling, it has
cut the amount of Supplementary Financing Program bills, or
SFPs, it sells on behalf of the Fed by $195 billion.  That has removed securities from circulation that traders
use as collateral in the repurchase agreement market, causing
them to look to Treasuries as a substitute. That is further
helping to contain yields, according to strategists at Zurich-
based Credit Suisse Group AG, another primary dealer.  “Both Democrats and Republicans know that to have true
potential to reduce the deficit entitlement spending must be
addressed more directly, and the market trusts that they will,
or the market will force them to,” Brandywine’s McIntyre said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  