-- 
Grohl Evokes Nirvana Ghost, Paul Simon Sees Heaven: Rock CDs

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-04-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/grohl-s-foo-fighters-evoke-nirvana-ghost-paul-simon-sees-heaven-rock-cds.html
Dave Grohl has often said he
regrets the mad moment when he called his band Foo Fighters. It
was a spur of the moment reference to UFO investigators.  Some 16 years and six Grammy awards later, a new album by
the Foos (on Roswell Records) is a major event in the rock
milieu, silly name or no. “Wasting Light,” out today, has
Grohl seeking to channel the power of Nirvana, the short-lived
grunge trio he was part of but that always outgunned his own
efforts. Kurt Cobain’s raw songs drove Nirvana’s 50 million unit
sales, led by “Nevermind.”  This time, Grohl, 42, rounded up Nirvana’s producer (Butch Vig), bassist (Krist Novoselic) and touring guitarist (Pat Smear). The Foos retreated to Grohl’s two-car garage, which he
declared “a ballad-free zone,” and recorded to analogue tape
in Nirvana-style jam sessions.  This one-gear plod has little of the studio perfectionism
and diversity on its excellent predecessor “Echoes, Silence,
Patience & Grace.” The single “Rope” chugs along and “White
Limo” is punky, yet the group has only lifted itself above
average with hummable melodies and catchy riffs.  Grohl was named a “Godlike Genius” by U.K. magazine NME.
Nothing on the new album, though, has the hair-raising power of
the late Cobain’s “Smells Like Teen Spirit.”  “I Should Have Known” is an elegy for Grohl’s friend
Jimmy Swanson, who died in 2008. The lyrics again invoke the
ghost of Cobain: “I should have known that it would end this
way.” Rating: ***.  Articulating Simon  If roaring rock is not what you need, try chilling with a
very different album, out today in the U.S., from the ever-
articulate Paul Simon.  “So Beautiful or So What,” shot through with bluegrass
and world music, is intelligent and quietly likeable. Simon, 69,
looks forward to arriving at the Pearly Gates on “The
Afterlife.” This time, he isn’t counting the cars on the New
Jersey turnpike so much as standing in line and listening to
half-hearted excuses.  The opener, “Getting Ready for Christmas Day,” also takes
on mortality, with Simon singing about a soldier in  Iraq , put
together with samples from a 1941 sermon.  The collection is a step up from 2006’s over-produced
“Surprise,” with sharper songs that recall “The Rhythm of the
Saints” from 1990. It’s not as good as “Graceland” from 1986
or 1972’s “Paul Simon” though a few songs, such as the
African-flavored title track, come close.  I don’t know if Simon will be rewarded with a permanent
path to heaven thanks to this literate, 38-minute collection. He
certainly finds beauty. Rating: ****.  Aiding Japan  “Songs for Japan” is a two-CD compilation from stars such
as  John Lennon , U2 and  Bob Dylan . Rock fans will know many of
these 37 songs by heart, though not from some of the live and
extended versions here: The Lady Gaga track is a 6 minute 45
second remix of “Born This Way.” The speed of its release in
an industrywide initiative, and the worthiness of the cause,
justify a rating of *****.  The Foo Fighters CD is on RCA/Roswell, Simon is on
Concord/Hear Music and “Songs for  Japan ” on Legacy in the U.S.
priced from $10.00. The Foo and Japan CDs are 8.99 pounds in the
U.K., with the Paul Simon to be released on June 13. Download
fees vary across services.  Information:  http://www.foofighters.com/us/home  or
 http://www.paulsimon.com/   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or Mark_Beech on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 