-- 
Gundlach’s DoubleLine Adds Company Debt, Cuts Mortgage Bonds

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-04-11T21:53:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/gundlach-s-doubleline-adds-investment-grade-bonds-cuts-u-s-mortgage-debt.html
Jeffrey Gundlach ’s DoubleLine
Capital LP is favoring the predictability of investment-grade
corporate debt over “volatile”  junk bonds  and U.S.-backed
mortgage securities susceptible to possible government
interference.  DoubleLine, which has grown to $9.5 billion from $3.1
billion in June, is shunning certain mortgage debt in part
because policy makers may pursue efforts to encourage homeowner
refinancing that would devalue the securities. Even without that
outcome, the securities are overvalued, he said.  “With investment-grade corporates, at least you know what
you’ve got,” said Gundlach, who managed the top-rated
intermediate-term U.S. bond mutual fund for 15 years. “It’s not
going to make you rich but it is a reasonable spread against
Treasuries. They have a reasonable default history, they don’t
have egregious volatility like high yield and there’s enough
spread there, they’ll tighten at least somewhat with rising
rates.”  Growing confidence in the economy and Federal Reserve
efforts to stimulate markets have driven down relative yields on
investment-grade U.S. corporate bonds to 145 basis points, or
1.45 percentage points, the smallest gap since October 2007,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The extra
yield investors demand to own the debt instead of similar-
maturity  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed from 656 basis points in
December 2008.  ‘Valuation Dance’  Spreads on speculative-grade company notes, rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by
 Standard & Poor’s , have fallen to 4.53 percentage points from
21.82 percentage points in December 2008, the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. The relative yields are about the
narrowest since November 2007.  “High-yield bonds are so overvalued because people have
moved into them over a period of no defaults,” Gundlach said.
“I’m not saying they’re going to collapse this year, but you’re
on the wrong side of the valuation dance to be entering the
high-yield  bond market  today.”  Gundlach started Los Angeles-based DoubleLine after being
fired by TCW Group Inc., a unit of Paris-based Societe General
SA, in December 2009. Its $5.9 billion DoubleLine Total Return
Bond Fund, which mostly holds mortgage debt, has topped 99
percent of rivals in the past year. The firm reduced mortgage
securities in other portfolios by about 10 percentage points to
about 40 percent, Gundlach said.  Avoiding Securities  The firm made the allocation changes within the  DoubleLine
Core Fixed Income Fund (DBLFX)  this month, according to Bonnie Baha,
head of the global developed-credit group. That fund has beaten
98 percent of its peers this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It was basically a valuation call,” Baha said. “Even
though investment-grade yields are fairly small, compared to the
valuation metrics of high-yield and the agency-mortgage markets,
they were compelling.”  DoubleLine sees value in non-agency mortgage notes that
lack government-backing and certain home-loan bonds guaranteed
by U.S.-supported Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  or federal agency
Ginnie Mae, Gundlach said. He’s also positive on  U.S. government
debt .  Gundlach, who was a finalist in 2009 for Morningstar Inc.’s
fixed-income manager of the decade, is avoiding agency mortgage
securities with the highest coupons, tied to loans with the
steepest rates, such as a  Fannie Mae  6.5 percent security, he
said. The debt rose to a record 112.1 cents on the dollar last
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Enormous’ Damage  High-coupon agency mortgage bonds have rallied partly
because reduced home values and tougher lending standards have
prevented most of the underlying homeowners from refinancing
into lower rates, Gundlach said. Refinancing pays investors at
par. Rates on the underlying loans for the 6.5 percent bonds
average about 7 percent, Bloomberg data show.  There’s “a not zero-percent probability” that the
government would create a “streamline” refinancing program to
aid consumers if housing slumps further, which would cause
“enormous” damage for holders of the bonds, he said.  At the same time, the holders aren’t being paid enough for
other possibilities, Gundlach said. Fannie Mae’s 6.5 percent
securities yield about 2.12 percent based on average analyst
prepayment forecasts, Bloomberg data show.  Such a rate, Gundlach said, may appear attractive based on
the way many investors look at the bonds, by comparing that
yield to those on Treasuries with maturities similar to their
projected average lives of about 3 years. The bonds should be
compared with longer government debt, partly because higher loan
rates would extend their durations, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  