-- 
Gupta Says U.S. Judge in New York Should Handle Suit to Block SEC's Action

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-12T04:01:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/gupta-says-u-s-judge-in-new-york-should-handle-his-sec-lawsuit.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
board member  Rajat Gupta  asked that a federal judge hear his
lawsuit against the Securities and Exchange Commission instead
of dismissing the complaint as the agency has requested.  The SEC, in an administrative proceeding filed March 1 in
 Washington , accuses Gupta of giving information to Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s
$5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs. The agency also alleges
Gupta told Rajaratnam about the New York-based bank’s quarterly
earnings and those of  Procter & Gamble Co ., where Gupta was also
a director. Gupta hasn’t been criminally charged.  On March 18, Gupta sued the SEC in federal court in
Manhattan, denying the SEC’s allegations and seeking a  jury
trial . Gupta also asked to block the agency from pursuing its
administrative claims and said the SEC’s allegations occurred at
least 1 1/2 years before regulators were allowed to bring such
an action under the Dodd-Frank Act.  “Mr. Gupta is the only Galleon-related defendant faced
with the denial of the right to a jury and important procedural
protections available only in federal court,” Gupta’s lawyer,
 Gary Naftalis , said in court papers filed yesterday.  Naftalis asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is
presiding over Gupta’s lawsuit, to reject the SEC’s bid to
dismiss the case for lack of jurisdiction. He noted that at
least two dozen Galleon-related individuals or businesses have
been sued by the SEC as part of the Galleon investigation which
are all pending in federal court in  New York .  ‘Unprecedented Step’  “The commission took the unprecedented step of instituting
an administrative proceeding for civil penalties alleging
 insider trading  against a non-regulated person,” Naftalis said.  “The impact of this ‘first use’ is to single out Mr. Gupta
as the only Galleon-related defendant being pursued by the
commission administratively.”  The SEC said in court papers filed April 1 that federal
courts don’t have jurisdiction in the dispute before any
findings are made in its administrative action against Gupta. If
there is a finding in the administrative proceeding, Gupta must
take any appeal directly to the  U.S. Court of Appeals , the
agency said.  Brenda Murray, the SEC’s chief administrative law judge,
who is presiding over the commission’s case against Gupta, has
scheduled a July 18 administrative trial.  Blankfein Testimony  Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  on
March 23 testified at Rajaratnam’s trial that he presented
confidential information at board meetings attended by Gupta.
Prosecutors claim Gupta leaked some of that information to
Rajaratnam.  The jury has also heard a July 29, 2008, telephone call,
secretly recorded by the FBI, in which Gupta told Rajaratnam
that the Goldman board had discussed acquiring a commercial bank
or an insurance company.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in federal court in  Manhattan 
in the largest crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S.
history. The Sri Lankan-born money manager is accused of making
$45 million from tips leaked by corporate insiders including
Gupta. He denies wrongdoing, saying he based trades on research.  The case is Gupta v. SEC, 11-cv-01900, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The criminal case is
U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 