-- 
Li Ka-Shing Yuan REIT Said to Fill Orders on First Day as Och-Ziff Buys In

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-04-12T06:52:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/li-s-yuan-reit-offering-said-to-receive-orders-for-all-stock-on-first-day.html
Billionaire Li Ka-shing’s real
estate investment trust, which is seeking as much as 11.2
billion yuan ($1.7 billion) in an initial public offering,
received orders for all shares offered yesterday, the day the
sale began, people with knowledge of the transaction said.  Investors including New York-based  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC (OZM)  will buy units in Hui Xian REIT, which will
close subscriptions on April 19, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the information is private.  Hong Kong’s swelling yuan deposits allowed Hui Xian to
offer a yield that’s lower than other publicly traded REITs in
the city. Hui Xian investors will get a yield of as much as 4.26
percent, seven times higher than on a one-year deposit of at
least HK$500,000 ($64,300) at  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   “While the pricing appears a bit tight compared to other
REITs listed in Hong Kong, retail investors may still be
enthusiastic about it, in light of the much lower rates on RMB
time deposits in  Hong Kong ,” said  Binay Chandgothia , a
portfolio manager at Principal Global Investors, which oversees
more than $200 billion of assets globally.  The Chinese currency is also known as renminbi, or RMB.  Hui Xian is offering 2 billion units in a price range of
5.24 yuan to 5.58 yuan in Hong Kong, according to the prospectus
for the IPO released on April 10.  Lower Yield  The IPO’s forecast yield to investors is 4 percent to 4.26
percent annualized for the period from April 29 to June 30, the
statement said. Most of the real estate investment trusts listed
in Hong Kong yield 5 percent to 6 percent, according to Jonas Kan, head of Hong Kong research at Daiwa Securities Capital
Markets.  Among Hong Kong-listed REITs, Sunlight Real Estate
Investment Trust is estimated to yield 6.8 percent this year,
Champion REIT may return 4.6 percent and Link REIT is forecast
to yield 4.4 percent, according to Katie Chan, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Haitong International Securities Group Ltd.  Winnie Cheong, a spokeswoman for  Cheung Kong  in Hong Kong,
didn’t immediately respond to phone calls seeking comment. An
employee in Och-Ziff’s Hong Kong office, who declined to be
identified by name, had no comment.  Hui Xian’s IPO may pave the way for other developers to
make similar offerings as Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.
seeks to widen its product range to compete in the region. The
sale offers investors in Hong Kong a way to bet on appreciation
of the Chinese currency while getting higher yields than on the
city’s yuan-denominated deposits, which reached a record $52
billion in February.  Premium Towers  BOC International Holdings Ltd., Citic Securities and HSBC
Holdings Plc are managing the sale, which began yesterday. The
offering is backed by the Oriental Plaza properties which cover
100,000 square meters (1.1 million square feet) along the
Changan Avenue in central Beijing.  Oriental Plaza consists of eight premium office towers, a
shopping mall, a Grand Hyatt Hotel and serviced apartments,
according to its  website .  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , the Hong
Kong developer controlled by Li, owns 33.4 percent of Oriental
Plaza, while affiliate  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  holds 18 percent,
according to the companies’ 2009 annual report.  Companies from Baar, Switzerland-based-based Glencore
International AG to Prada SpA of Milan plan share sales in Hong
Kong this quarter, providing impetus to the exchange’s push to
become a global IPO hub. The sales may push the value of offers
to more than $20 billion, which would be a record for a second
quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net 
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  