-- 
Rebels Appeal for NATO to Break Qaddafi's Misrata Siege

-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-04-12T19:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/libya-rebels-spurn-african-union-cease-fire-unless-qaddafi-gives-up-power.html
Libya  rebels appealed for NATO to
use “all necessary measures” to avert an “anticipated
massacre of men, women and children” in the city of Misrata,
which is under attack by Muammar Qaddafi’s forces.  The Interim Transitional National Council, the main
opposition group, called for the  United Nations  to declare the
besieged city an “internationally protected zone,” and said in
a statement that “the Qaddafi regime is accelerating attacks on
Misrata, using Grad missiles, in preparation for a potentially
devastating assault on the city.”  The appeal reflects the dire situation in Libya’s third
largest city as NATO has been unable to stop the artillery
attacks and sniper fire out of concern that air strikes in the
city would inadvertently kill civilians.  France  and the U.K. are
calling for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to do more,
exposing rifts within the alliance about how to respond to the
crisis.  Intense fighting is threatening the civilian population in
the city, where the water and sewer systems are disrupted,
according to James Elder, a spokesman in Cairo for  Unicef , the
 United Nations Children’s Fund . Shelling by Qaddafi forces has
hit within a few hundred yards of a hospital, he said.  Naser Al Kikly, the rebel administration’s coordinator for
humanitarian affairs, urged NATO countries to step up attacks on
Qaddafi’s forces, rather than negotiate with his government on
how to get aid to the city. Qaddafi’s government vowed to
“confront anyone trying to get close to Misrata under the
pretext of humanitarian aid,” state television said yesterday,
according to Al Arabiya television.  ‘No Illusion’  “There should be no illusion that Qaddafi could agree to
allow humanitarian aid to enter Misrata,” he said in a phone
interview today. “Qaddafi is trying to capture the port in
order to cut off all humanitarian supplies. NATO should
concentrate its effort on preventing him from doing that.”  More than 1,000 people have been killed and “several
thousand” wounded in Misrata in the six-week siege, according
to Suleiman Fortia, a council spokesman.  Brigadier General Mark van Uhm of the Netherlands, speaking
today at a news conference at NATO headquarters in Brussels,
said the Misrata situation is “a big concern to us” while
noting that aid ships have been able to reach the city’s port in
recent days.  Oil Declines  Libya has been effectively split in two since the early
stages of the conflict, and  oil prices  have jumped about 26
percent in the past year. Crude for May delivery dropped $3.67,
or 3.3 percent, to $106.25 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  on signs that high oil prices are slowing the global
economy. It was the lowest settlement since March 30. Libya
holds  Africa ’s biggest oil reserves.  Clashes along the eastern front line shifted to the
outskirts of the oil town of Brega after rebels pushed back
Qaddafi forces this week from Ajdabiya.  The Contact Group on Libya, representatives of the more
than 35 countries in the anti-Qaddafi coalition, meets tomorrow
in Doha, Qatar. A U.K. government official said that former
Libyan Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa, a long-time Qaddafi
associate who defected to Britain last month, will attend the
meeting to offer his views of the Libyan leader and his inner
circle, the  Associated Press  reported.  Rebels Seek Weapons  A senior member of the rebel council, Mahmood Jibril, plans
to ask the contact group for international action on Misrata,
according to rebel spokesman Abdulhafid Ghoga in Benghazi. In
addition, he said, Jibril will ask the France and Qatar, which
have formally recognized the rebel government, for help buying
weapons and other military equipment.  NATO foreign ministers meet in Berlin April 14 and 15 to
discuss Libya and Afghanistan conflicts.  The situation in Misrata is exposing tensions within NATO
about how aggressively to pursue its UN mandate to protect
civilians in Libya.  French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  told France Info radio
that NATO must do more to destroy Qaddafi’s heavy weaponry,
while the European Union must give priority to humanitarian aid.
NATO “must play its role fully,” Juppe said. The alliance
“wanted to take charge of military operations and we
accepted,” he said  “We must maintain and intensify our efforts in NATO,”
U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told reporters in
Luxembourg today.  Strike Missions  NATO is doing “a pretty good job protecting the civilians
by taking out the biggest threat,” given the level of military
resources being provided by alliance members, van Uhm said. NATO
 reported  conducting 59 potential ground-attack flight missions
yesterday, down from 70 on April 10.  “We know we are having an effect,” van Uhm said.“Pro-
Qaddafi forces cannot fight where they want, they cannot fight
how they want, and they cannot use the weapons they want.
Nothing indicates, however, that Qaddafi has any intention of
disengaging.”  The rebels turned down an  African Union  cease-fire plan
that would leave Qaddafi in power.  “Qaddafi and his sons must leave immediately if he wants
to save himself,” the head of Libya’s rebel council, Mustafa Abdel Jalil, said after meeting the African delegation in
Benghazi yesterday, echoing the demands of the U.S., France and
the U.K., who are supporting the insurgents with air strikes.  The African Union said Qaddafi had agreed to end fighting
immediately and hold talks on political reforms to underpin a
lasting settlement. Mull Katende,  Uganda ’s ambassador to the
Union, said Qaddafi’s departure may be discussed once
negotiations start.  ‘New Blood’  Qaddafi’s son Saif al-Islam, in an interview with France’s
BFM TV broadcast yesterday, said it was “ridiculous” to talk
about the leader’s departure, though he said that the country
needs “new blood” in the form of a young leadership class.  In  Washington , Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
yesterday that non-negotiable demands are for Qaddafi to pull
back his forces, restore water and electricity to cities, and
permit deliveries of humanitarian aid. Clinton is due to attend
a North Atlantic Treaty Organization foreign ministers meeting
in Berlin April 14 and 15 to discuss Libya and  Afghanistan .  Elsewhere in the region, Syrian authorities warned
protesters that they are determined to crush what they described
as a conspiracy to undermine President Bashar Al-Assad’s regime.
Security forces cracked down yesterday on about 1,500 students
protesting on a Damascus campus, rights activists said.  Human
Rights Watch  said 28 people were killed during protests on April
8, bringing the death toll from a month of clashes in  Syria  to
at least 130.  In Yemen, 11 al-Qaeda militants, including two foreigners,
were killed in a clash with the Yemeni army, Al Arabiya
television reported, citing the  Defense Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Benghazi at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  