-- 
Tiger Woods’s Masters Rally Falls Short to Leave U.S. Without Major Title

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-04-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/tiger-woods-s-rally-falls-short-at-masters-u-s-left-without-major-title.html
Tiger Woods  charged up the
leaderboard at the Masters Tournament, only to be turned aside
again. The winner this time was the 26-year-old son of a South
African chicken farmer and left golf without a U.S. champion in
its four major tournaments for the first time in 17 years.  Charl Schwartzel’s two-shot win yesterday at Augusta
National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia, was the latest sign of
the sport’s international growth and another setback for Woods,
who is winless in 18 months. He hasn’t won the Masters since
capturing his fourth victory in 2005 and remains stuck on 14
major titles, four shy of  Jack Nicklaus ’s record 18.  As Woods, 35, struggles to win again following his
acknowledgment of extramarital affairs that led to his divorce,
golfers from other countries walked off with the trophies the
American has won so often since turning professional 14 years
ago. Schwartzel’s victory is the fourth straight major win by a
non-American in 12 months.  “There needed to be life after Tiger,” Andrew “Chubby”
Chandler, Schwartzel’s manager, said in an interview yesterday.
“I’m not saying that Tiger’s finished, but there needs to be a
continuation of what goes on in golf.”  Schwartzel’s win follows victories by  Martin Kaymer  of
 Germany  at the  PGA Championship ,  Louis Oosthuizen  of  South
Africa  at the British Open and Graeme McDowell of  Northern
Ireland  at the  U.S. Open . It’s the first time since 1994 that no
American has held any of golf’s four major titles.  Only three Americans finished in the top 10 at the Masters
yesterday, the fewest in six years. Entering the final round,
the top seven players on the leaderboard were from outside the
U.S.  No Borders  Chandler, who manages other players competing primarily on
the European  PGA Tour , including 21-year-old Rory McIlroy of
Northern Ireland, said the game’s future has no borders now. He
praised the U.S. PGA Tour for providing more opportunities to
international players over the past few decades.  “America is big, but the world is bigger,” Schwartzel
told reporters.  Woods also has played a big part in inspiring golf’s next
generation, such as 23-year-old runner-up Jason Day of
 Australia . Unlike young Australian golfers who grew up idolizing
countryman Greg Norman, Day said he decided to pursue
professional golf after watching Woods’s record 12-shot victory
at the 1997 Masters.  Fourteen years later, Day made his first appearance at the
tournament and nearly left as the first Australian to capture
the title.  ‘Unreal’ Excitement  “It was unreal,” Day said after making birdies on four of
his final seven holes to finish at 12-under par, two shots
behind Schwartzel. “It’s the most exciting tournament I’ve ever
played in.”  Woods, who hasn’t won a tournament since November 2009,
didn’t capture his fifth Masters title but helped create the
final-round excitement.  Beginning the day seven shots behind McIlroy, the third-
round leader, Woods made four birdies and one bogey over the
first seven holes. He then eagled the par-5 eighth with a putt
from about 8 feet to move to one shot off the lead.  “Every hole it seemed like he would have a big, massive
roar,” Day said of Woods’s early play. “One after another. The
guy’s a freak.”  When McIlroy, who shot 8-over 80 to finish 10 shots back of
Schwartzel, bogeyed the fifth hole, Woods was tied for the lead.
He went to the 10th tee as fans crammed walkways and hillsides
trying to get a glimpse. Some even broke into a jog, ignoring
the 79-year-old club’s “no running” policy.  Players Watch  As Woods prepared to putt on the 10th green, other players
noticed what was happening.  Spain ’s Alvaro Quiros stood on a
wood bench to the right side of the nearby 15th tee, craning his
neck over the crowd to watch Woods on the green below.  By the time Woods had reached the “Amen Corner” section
of holes 11, 12 and 13, fans stood elbow to elbow around the tee
area of the par-3  12th hole  in the mid-afternoon sun.  Woods bogeyed the hole, three-putting from about 30 feet,
and then failed to sink an eagle putt on the 15th from inside 5
feet.  “It’s just shot for shot,” Woods told reporters. “This
golf course baits you into doing that. You can get aggressive,
you can lose it.”  The misses ended his charge and opened the door for
Schwartzel, Day and Adam Scott, a 30-year-old Australian, to
swap birdies down the stretch. Over the final four holes, the
trio combined to make seven birdies.  Standing near Chandler under an oak tree near the
clubhouse, 2008 U.S. Ryder Cup Captain Paul Azinger was among
those taking note of the leaderboard filled with young
international players.  “Tiger is creeping past his prime now,” Azinger said in
an interview. “The next generation is coming and they’re from
all over the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Augusta,  Georgia , at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  