-- 
High Spirits, Higher Legs Launch ‘Catch Me If You Can’: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-04-11T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/high-spirits-higher-legs-launch-catch-me-if-you-can-review.html
Nobody, but nobody makes the female
citizens of Broadway look hotter, dance better and come hither
with greater pizzazz than costume designer William Ivey Long.  There’s plenty to admire and even a little to love about
the stolid new musical “Catch Me If You Can.” But for eye-candy
alone Long deserves a special  Tony Award . Share it with director
Jack O’Brien and choreographer Jerry Mitchell, the supremely
confident team behind “Hairspray.”  With a story set in the “Mad Men” 60s (c’mon, enough
already), Long dresses his bouquet of long-stemmed chorines in
shirts-only Yankees pinstripes, robin egg blue stewardess
uniforms, skinny white Capri pants and halter tops, and shirt-
waist black dinner jackets for a show that unabashedly reaches
out to the elusive Tired Businessman, that long-forgotten prey
of Broadway producers with names like Ziegfeld. On that count
alone, “Catch Me If You Can” delivers the goodies.  Based on the Steven Spielberg movie that was based on the
memoir of con man-turned-FBI agent “Catch Me If You Can” is the
story of a bad con artist (Tom Wopat, in hangdog mode) whose son
grows up to be a very good one. To keep his one-man global
check-kiting franchise afloat, Frank Abagnale Jr. -- played with
hip-swaying, barely post-adolescent charm by Aaron Tveit --
successfully passes himself off as a Pan Am pilot, an M.D. and a
lawyer while bedding every skirt passing by.  Cat-and-Mouse  The Javert to this modern-day Valjean is lonely, obsessed
FBI agent Carl Hanratty, played with paunchy, shlumpy verve by
Norbert Leo Butz (who probably hasn’t had this much fun since he
played the con artist in “Dirty Rotten Scoundrels”).  The show itself? An odd duck. The songs are by the
“Hairspray” duo of Marc Shaiman and Scott Wittman, who are very
adept at writing and arranging pop songs that fly by
effortlessly without leaving much of an impression. They’re
played by a sensational onstage swing band.  When the songs get serious, the score veers into the
maudlin. The chief offenders are the inevitable duet for
Hanratty and Frank Sr., “Little Boy, Be a Man” and a torchy
ballad for girlfriend Brenda Strong (Kerry Butler) that’s best
forgotten. Don’t fret; the moments pass quickly. Terrence
McNally’s book follows a straight-and-narrow narrative route,
leaving not much to the imagination.  David Rockwell’s endearingly suggestive Swinging 60s sets,
lit with jewel-like resplendence by Kenneth Posner, give us lots
to ogle besides the girls and boys kicking, tapping and swirling
about the stage. But really? They’re the main event.  At the Neil Simon Theatre, 250 W. 52nd St. Information: +1-
877-250-2929;  http://www.ticketmaster.com 
Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 