-- 
IMF Set to Cut U.S., Japan Growth Forecasts Today

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-04-11T11:22:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/imf-lowers-economic-growth-forecasts-for-u-s-japan-german-official-says.html
The  International Monetary Fund  has
lowered its forecast for economic growth in the U.S. amid rising
commodity prices and downgraded its outlook for Japan after the
earthquake and tsunami, a German government official said.  Deficit reduction strategies in the U.S. and Japan lack
credibility, the IMF said in its World Economic Outlook, the
German official told reporters in Berlin today on condition of
anonymity because the report will be published in  Washington 
later today. The IMF, which forecast 3 percent U.S. growth this
year in January, left its latest projection for global growth
unchanged, the German official said, without giving time-frames.  “U.S. forecasters became overly optimistic in the latter
part of last year,” John Greenwood, chief economist at Invesco
Ltd. in  London , said in a telephone interview. “In general, the
economic forecasting community doesn’t pay enough attention to
the longer-term balance sheet issues of large-scale government
debt and private-sector debt and the need for deleveraging in
both households and the financial sector.”  While the likelihood of a double-dip economic slump have
decreased, risks to growth mean the world economy is more likely
to disappoint than to beat expectations, the German official
cited the IMF as saying. Commodity-price shocks, especially oil,
have emerged as a new risk to global economic expansion, the
official said. The IMF and  World Bank  will hold their Spring
meetings in Washington on April 15-17.  Finance ministers from the Group of Seven -- the U.S.,
 Japan ,  Germany ,  France , the U.K., Italy and  Canada  -- and Russia
will hold a special meeting on April 14 to discuss the situation
in the Middle East and North Africa, the German official said.  Oil Price  Brent oil for May settlement traded at $124.96 a barrel,
down $1.69, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
contract increased $3.98, or 3.2 percent, to end the session at
$126.65 on April 8.  “I don’t think the current level of tension in the Middle
East and North Africa is enough to retard growth on its own,”
said Greenwood. “The oil price would have to go up to another
$20-30 a barrel to be a serious constraint on growth.”  The  U.S. economy  will expand 2.9 percent this year and 3.1
percent in 2012, according to the median estimate of about 70
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from April 1 to April 7.
The U.S. economy grew 2.9 percent last year, the most since
2005, according to figures from the Commerce Department. The
German official didn’t give an IMF forecast for U.S. growth.  The IMF estimates damage from the earthquake and tsunami
that struck Japan a month ago to amount to between 3 percent and
5 percent of the nation’s gross domestic product, the German
official said.  The IMF raised its growth forecasts for Germany for this
year and next, noting improved economic growth dynamism and
progress in cutting the deficit as well as lowering
unemployment, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  