-- 
IMF Cuts 2011 U.S. Growth Forecast on Oil, ‘Lackluster’ Pace of Job Gains

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-11T17:06:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/imf-cuts-2011-u-s-growth-forecast-on-oil-lackluster-pace-of-job-gains.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
lowered its forecast for U.S. growth this year, predicting
higher oil prices and the pace of job gains will restrain the
recovery.  The world’s largest economy will expand 2.8 percent this
year, down from the 3 percent projected in January, the IMF said
today, citing the need to reduce deficits and boost exports.
Global gross domestic product will grow 4.4 percent in 2011,
matching the previous estimate, according to the Washington-
based lender’s World Economic Outlook report.  Consumer spending, the biggest part of the  U.S. economy ,
faces headwinds from the rising cost of food and gasoline.
 Federal Reserve  officials last month said the expansion is on
“firmer footing,” lessening the need to extend a bond purchase
program beyond June.  “If the U.S. is going to do fiscal consolidation of the
size that it has to do, then demand has to come from
elsewhere,”  Olivier Blanchard , chief economist at the IMF, said
today at a news conference. “It has to come from net exports.
This just has to happen for the U.S. to be able to sustain
growth.”  The economy grew 2.9 percent last year, the most since
2005, according to figures from the Commerce Department. U.S.
GDP will expand 2.9 percent this year and 3.1 percent in 2012,
according to the median estimate of about 70 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News from April 1 to April 7.  ‘Pause that Refreshes’  “This may just be a pause that refreshes in the overall
expansion,”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York , said in an interview on
April 8. “The primary risk to the forecast is oil, front and
center.”  Oil for May delivery fell 69 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
$112.10 a barrel at 10:50 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Futures settled at $112.79 a barrel on April 8, the
highest closing price since Sept. 22, 2008. Prices have risen 32
percent in the past year.  “Recovery in the labor market remains lackluster,” the
IMF said in the report. “The drag on 2011 growth from oil price
increases largely offsets the boost from the Federal Reserve’s
unconventional policies and from stronger net exports.”  The jobless rate in the U.S. will average 8.5 percent this
year and 7.8 percent in 2012, the IMF said in the report.
Unemployment was 8.8 percent in March, according to U.S. Labor
Department data.  “ Job creation  has recently accelerated, but the pace of
improvement in the labor market remains disappointing
considering the size of the job losses during the decline,” the
fund said in the report.  Several Risks  The IMF also highlighted several risks to the recovery,
including a spike in oil and commodity prices that “could
dampen confidence and weaken  consumer spending .” The housing
market, which precipitated the recession that began in December
2007 and ended in June 2009, may see  home prices  decline
further, according to the report.  The Fed, after its latest policy meeting March 15, pledged
to continue its program of purchasing $600 billion of bonds
through June, in order to “promote a stronger pace of economic
recovery.” Fed officials also said a rise in commodity prices
signaled the deflation risk had diminished and they were
unlikely to expand the bond purchase plan.  Living Cost  Consumer prices will climb 2.2 percent this year and 1.6
percent in 2012, according to the IMF report. The cost of living
in the U.S. increased 2.1 percent in the 12 months ended
February, according to the Labor Department in  Washington .  The fund also called for the U.S. to tackle its growing
deficit. “A credible strategy to stabilize public debt in the
medium term, and a down payment on fiscal consolidation in 2011,
are urgently needed,” the IMF said in the report.  Signs of improvement in the economy, according to the IMF
report, consist of business investment in durable goods,
manufactured items meant to last at least three years, and
“healthy corporate balance sheets,” putting companies in a
position to “support stronger hiring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  