-- 
IMF, EU Officials Meet in Lisbon to Plan $116 Billion Portuguese Bailout

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-04-12T09:55:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/imf-eu-officials-meet-in-lisbon-to-plan-116-billion-portuguese-bailout.html
International Monetary Fund ,
European Commission and European Central Bank officials will be
in Lisbon today as they start preparing an estimated 80 billion-
euro ($116 billion) aid program for Portugal, the third euro-
region nation to request a bailout in a year.  The European Union aims to reach an agreement on the aid
package on May 16, three weeks before the country’s June 5 early
election, which was prompted by the resignation of Prime
Minister Jose Socrates after parliament rejected his deficit-
cutting plan.  Portugal’s bid for emergency aid last week opened what
European officials say will be the final chapter in the debt
crisis that erupted in Greece last year, spread to Ireland and
triggered speculation that the 17-nation euro area might not
survive in its current form.  “It is expected that the program is completed and approved
by both the EU and IMF by mid-May 2011 in order to allow the
disbursement of the first tranche ahead of the large funding
needs of June,” Antonio Garcia Pascual, chief southern European
economist at  Barclays Capital , said in a note yesterday.  The next government will need “not only to implement
further fiscal consolidation measures but also to implement
difficult and potentially unpopular structural reforms, which
are likely to target a leaner and more efficient public sector,
further labor market reforms and enhanced competition in goods
and services markets,” he wrote.  ‘Ambitious’ Plans  EU finance ministers said in an April 8 statement that the
program for Portugal will include “an ambitious fiscal
adjustment,” an “ambitious privatization program” and
measures to maintain the liquidity and solvency of the financial
sector.  IMF experts will join European Commission and ECB teams
today “for technical discussions with the government,” the
Washington-based IMF said by e-mail yesterday. The initial
assessment will serve as a “basis” for policy discussions
starting April 18, the IMF said April 10.  Poul Thomsen will lead the IMF mission to Portugal. The
Danish national has been at the IMF for more than 20 years and
led negotiations with  Greece  and Iceland on use of IMF
resources, according to the IMF’s press office.  The  Portuguese government  will lead negotiations on a
financial aid plan for Portugal, Socrates said on April 10.
Socrates said on April 6 that the government would seek an EU-
led rescue package as the nation faces bond redemptions in April
and June that total 9 billion euros.  ‘More Challenging’  EU Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  on April 8 said
an aid program for Portugal will likely amount to about 80
billion euros. Rehn said he’s confident Portugal can meet its
financing needs in April and in May, “while June will be more
challenging.” He declined to say what portion of Portugal’s
bailout will be designated for the country’s banks.  Portuguese President Anibal Cavaco Silva on April 9 called
for an “interim” financial package for his country and said
the government that wins June elections should hammer out the
details of a final aid program. Portugal’s main political
parties have agreed on the deficit targets of 4.6 percent of
gross domestic product for this year, 3 percent next year and 2
percent in 2013, he said.  Opposition Support  The Social Democrats support the aid request,  Pedro Passos Coelho , leader of Portugal’s biggest opposition party, said last
week. Opposition parties on March 23 united to reject the
government’s proposed additional cuts that were the equivalent
of 4.5 percent of GDP over three years. That package included a
reduction in pensions of more than 1,500 euros a month and
further cuts in tax benefits.  Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen of  Finland , one of the euro
region’s six states with AAA credit ratings, said on April 8
that Portugal’s deficit-reduction steps must go beyond the
measures that failed to pass parliament last month.  “Families and companies have been bearing the austerity we
have had until now,” Passos Coelho said last night in an
interview with television station TVI. “Now, austerity for the
state will also be needed.”  The  Social Democrats  led the ruling Socialist Party by a
narrower margin in a survey of voters’ intentions, TVI reported
on its website. The survey indicated 38.7 percent backing from
voters for the Social Democrats, 3.5 percentage points lower
than in a March 27 survey, TVI said. It indicated 33.1 percent
support for the Socialists, 0.3 percentage point more than in
last month’s poll, according to TVI.  Rising Yields  Portugal reported a 2010  budget deficit  equal to 8.6
percent of GDP, higher than the 7.3 percent the government had
previously forecast, after a change in EU accounting rules
forced it to add more than 2 billion euros in charges to last
year’s accounts.  Yields on  Portugal ’s two-, five- and 10-year bonds have all
reached record levels since Socrates offered his resignation on
March 23, leaving him in charge of a caretaker government with
limited powers until the June 5 election.  The difference in yield that investors demand to hold
Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead of German bunds reached a euro-
era record of 544 basis points on April 5 and was at 515 today.
The 10-year bond yield rose to a euro-era high of 8.80 percent
on April 6 and was at 8.62 percent today. The five-year bond
yield reached a high of 10.17 percent on April 5 and was at
10.069 percent today.  Portugal had been trying to avoid requesting aid for the
first time since 1983, when it received external help from the
IMF.  The country’s economic growth has averaged less than 1
percent a year in the past decade, one of  Europe ’s weakest
rates. Unemployment rose to 11.1 percent in the fourth quarter,
the highest since at least 1998, as the economy contracted for
the first time in a year. The IMF forecasts Portugal’s GDP will
shrink 1.5 percent this year and 0.5 percent next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 