-- 
IMF Forecasts 8 Percent Turkish Current-Account Gap This Year

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-04-11T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/imf-forecasts-8-percent-turkish-current-account-gap-this-year.html
Turkey ’s current-account deficit
may widen to 8 percent of gross domestic product this year as
“still accommodative” monetary policy fuels a domestic boom
and draws in imports, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The deficit will expand from 6.5 percent of GDP in 2010,
according to the IMF’s World Economic Outlook published today.
The Washington-based lender expects a gap of 8.2 percent in
2012. In October, the fund predicted a 2011 gap of 5.4 percent
of GDP.  The Turkish central bank says limiting the current-account
deficit is its main policy goal. It has raised  reserve
requirements  for banks in a bid to curb credit growth at the
same time as cutting the benchmark interest rate to deter
inflows of short-term investment.  “The rapid recovery is projected to continue in Turkey,”
the IMF said. “Demand and buoyant credit growth are lifting
economic activity above its potential level amid still-
accommodative macroeconomic policies.”  The current-account deficit more than doubled in February
from a year earlier, widening to $6.1 billion, the central bank
in Ankara said on its website today. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of nine economists was for a gap of $6.3
billion.  The cumulative deficit for the 12 months through February
was $54.8 billion, or about 7 percent of estimated gross
domestic product. The government’s medium-term plans forecast a
gap of $42.2 billion, or 5.4 percent of GDP.  Rate Cuts  Restraining the current-account gap is the bank’s top
policy priority, Erdem Basci, a deputy governor of the central
bank, said in  Prague  on March 29. The bank has cut  interest
rates  by 75 basis points since December to help slow capital
inflows, while increasing reserve requirements to cap growth in
loans. It forecasts those increases will take effect from the
second quarter of the year.  GDP growth will be 4.6 percent this year, the fund said,
faster than the 3.6 percent it forecast in October last year.
Growth in 2012 will be 4.5 percent.  Inflation will average 5.7 percent this year and accelerate
to 6 percent next year, the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 