-- 
Tina Fey Doesn’t Have Sex With Baldwin or Palin in This Review

-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 
2011-04-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/tina-fey-doesn-t-have-sex-with-alec-baldwin-or-palin-in-this-review-books.html
Tina Fey  is a regular gal with
overgrown eyebrows and a new book called “ Bossypants ” that
reminds us once again how she just happens to be smarter and
funnier than anyone else around.  “Maybe you bought this book because you love Sarah Palin
and you want to find reasons to hate me,” she writes. “We’ve
got that! I use all kinds of elitist words like ‘impervious’ and
‘torpor,’ and I think gay people are just as good at watching
their kids play hockey as straight people.”  If you’re a man, she’ll thank you kindly for buying her
book, but you’re not the target audience. Pimply teenage girls,
virginal college co-eds, striving young professional women,
overworked moms: This book’s for you.  There’s a riff about her mother giving her the learning-
about-puberty pamphlet “ Growing Up and Liking It ,” which women
of a certain age will remember with a cringe. There are chapters
called “Remembrances of Being Very Very Skinny” (“I once took
a bag of sliced red peppers to the beach as a snack”) and
“Remembrances of Being a Little Bit Fat” (“My boobs were
bigger”). There’s an astonishing section about the propensity
of male writers at “ Saturday Night Live ” for peeing into cups
and leaving them around the office.  Feminist Humor  Fey isn’t afraid to call herself a feminist, and she
approaches sexism with her refreshing sense of humor. Here’s her
response to nonsense like Christopher Hitchens’s 2007 Vanity
Fair essay headlined “Why Women Aren’t Funny”: “It is an
impressively arrogant move to conclude that just because you
don’t like something, it is empirically not good. I don’t like
Chinese food, but I don’t write articles trying to prove it
doesn’t exist.”  Don’t buy “Bossypants” looking for deep introspection or
a long, tortured explanation of how she got that scar on her
face. This is a book of comedic essays along the lines of Nora Ephron or  Woody Allen , not a memoir. Fey even plays earnest
questions, like whether to have a second child, for laughs.
(That dilemma was answered last week, when she announced she was
pregnant.)  Naturally, some of the pieces work better than others. A
chapter about Fey’s romantic foibles at the  University of
Virginia  was a bit slow. But I laughed out loud at her interview
for a job as the night box-office manager with what she calls
the Tiny Pretentious Theater Company.  “We like to think of ourselves as the most exciting
theater company in  Chicago ,” the artistic director said.  “I like to think of myself as the most beautiful woman in
the world,” Fey replied. “But where will that get either of
us, really?”  “Bossypants” is published by Reagan Arthur Books/Little,
Brown (277 pages, $26.99). To buy this book in  North America ,
click  here .  (Laurie Muchnick is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Laurie Muchnick in  New York  at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 