-- 
Intel Is Said to Design Phone for ZTE for Sale in China

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-04-12T20:57:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/intel-is-said-to-have-designed-phone-for-zte-to-sell-in-china.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , aiming to gain a
toehold for its chips in the mobile-phone market, has designed a
handset that may be manufactured by China’s  ZTE Corp. (000063) , according
to two people with knowledge of the plan.  Intel has supplied a design for the phone, based on a
version of its Atom microprocessor, that may go on sale in
China, said one of the people, who declined to be identified
because the project hasn’t been made public.  The chipmaker seeks partners to help it break into the
smartphone industry and help lessen its reliance on personal
computers. The challenge is making inroads against processors
using technology from  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , which dominates the
phone business. A deal with ZTE, based in Shenzhen,  China , would
give Intel access to the eighth-largest phone manufacturer.  “The market eagerly awaits Intel’s first product,” said
 Doug Freedman , an analyst at Gleacher & Co., who has a “buy”
rating on Intel. “After two years of nothing, it’s past due.”  There are no phones now on sale that use Intel processors.
The company’s efforts suffered a blow in February, when Nokia
Oyj scaled back a project to make devices using an operating
system jointly developed with Intel. Instead, Nokia plans to
concentrate on smartphones running software from Microsoft Corp.  Claudine Mangano, a spokeswoman for Intel, declined to
comment on whether Intel is working with ZTE.  “In terms of the overall market, we recognize that we have
some work to do, but we’re patient and we’re committed to the
business,” Mangano said. “We have the right elements to be
successful. We are working on a number of engagements, but are
not ready to talk about them.”  Management Change  ZTE’s handset division has held talks with Intel, said
Margrete Ma, a spokeswoman for ZTE. Ma said she had no further
information available.  “It is just discussion and cooperation on a technical
basis for the time being,” Ma said in an April 11 interview.  Anand Chandrasekher, Intel’s top executive focused on
phones, resigned last month. The company will continue to make
investments to ensure that its chips are used in phones and that
a handset goes on sale later this year, Dadi Perlmutter, Intel’s
executive vice president, said at the time.  Intel, based in  Santa Clara ,  California , fell 36 cents to
$19.76 today on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has lost 6
percent of its value this year.  The chipmaker’s leadership in PCs hasn’t given it an edge
in the handset market -- an industry that’s more than four times
bigger in terms of shipments.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , Texas Instruments
Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co., which rely on ARM designs, are
the biggest makers of phone chips.  ZTE Shipments  Among phone manufacturers, ZTE accounted for 1.8 percent of
1.6 billion handsets shipped to end users last year, according
to Gartner Inc. Nokia, Samsung, LG Electronics Inc.,  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , Apple Inc., Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB
and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. ranked ahead of ZTE.  ZTE said in January that its global shipments of mobile-
phone handsets, tablets and wireless data cards will climb 33
percent to 120 million units this year. Its sales of those
products gained almost 50 percent last year to 90 million units.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 