-- 
Intel Will Unveil New Tablet Processor at Beijing Conference

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-04-11T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/intel-will-unveil-new-tablet-processor-at-beijing-conference.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , aiming to accelerate a
stalled entrance into the market for tablet chips, will
introduce a chip today that’s designed to offer improved battery
life in touch-screen computers.  The new product, called Oak Trail and sold under Intel’s
Atom brand, is 60 percent smaller than its predecessor and will
provide “all-day” battery life in touch-screen computers, the
Santa Clara, California-based company said. The chip, which
Intel plans to unveil at its  Developer Forum in Beijing , is
already shipping to computer makers and will appear in 35
machines by the end of the year.  Intel, whose processors power more than 80 percent of the
world’s personal computers, has failed to convert that dominance
into even 1 percent of market share in tablet computers,
 according  to International Data Corp., a Framingham,
Massachusetts-based technology research company. Previously,
Intel didn’t have a chip capable of fitting into the slim body
of a tablet, and its existing chips used too much battery power.  Oak Trail “gets Intel into the game with a tablet-centric
product,” Bill Kircos, general manager of marketing for the
company’s newly formed Netbook and Tablet Group, said in an
interview last week.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad runs on chips based on  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) ’s
technology, which helped ARM gain 99 percent market share in
2010, IDC said. That share will decline “only a few points”
this year, the researcher said this month.  Lenovo, Fujitsu  Intel’s Kircos said  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  and  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702)  are
among device makers that will sell tablets based on the new
chips. Intel’s customers will begin offering tablets that
feature  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows and its
own MeeGo operating system.  Separately, Intel will speed up the introduction of future
tablet-chip designs on more advanced manufacturing, bringing
their release schedule in line with its computer chips, said
Kircos. That will help Intel close the gap with its rivals in
standby battery life. Oak Trail is already competitive in the
amount of power it draws from a battery or other sources when
the portable computers are used heavily, he said.  Intel fell 1 cent to $20.02 on April 8 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. Before today, the company’s shares were down 4.8
percent this year.  Intel Vice President  Doug Davis , who leads its attempts to
break into the tablet market, will present the chip in Beijing
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  