-- 
Intel Persuades Judge to Reject N.Y. AG Request for Nvidia Data

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-04-11T21:40:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/intel-persuades-judge-to-reject-n-y-ag-request-for-nvidia-data.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  officials persuaded a
judge to rebuff the  New York  Attorney General’s efforts to get
information about a rival’s claim that the computer chipmaker
violated antitrust laws, court records show.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine today denied New
York’s request to have  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) ’s lawyers hand over
information generated in a 2009 Delaware lawsuit against Intel
over chip-licensing agreements, according to a transcript of a
court hearing. The state’s lawyers accused Intel of improperly
using a confidentiality order in the civil case to block them
from getting Nvidia information about antitrust claims.  “What you are trying to do is make them your sled dog,”
Strine told the state’s lawyers at a hearing today, according to
the transcript. “I mean, this is ridiculous.”  Intel, based in  Santa Clara ,  California , has agreed to pay
more than $2.7 billion in settlements over the last 14 months to
resolve antitrust litigation over its chips, including a $1.5
billion accord with Nvidia in January.  The chipmaker also agreed in August not to use retaliation
or exclusive deals to block customers from choosing its rivals’
products in an agreement with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission.
In May 2009, Intel was fined 1.06 billion euros ($1.47 billion)
by the European Union over antitrust violations. Intel is
appealing that fine.  “We are happy that the judge concluded that the New York
Attorney General was overreaching with his request,” Intel
spokesman  Chuck Mulloy  said in a telephone interview today.  Sued in 2009  New York officials  sued  Intel in federal court in  Delaware 
in November 2009 accusing the company of threatening computer
manufacturers and making billions of dollars in illegal payments
to pressure them to use its chips. That case is still pending,
according to court filings.  Strine noted New York officials sought to have Nvidia
executives turn over lawyers’ analyses of Intel’s potential
antitrust violations that were generated as part of the Delaware
case, according to the transcript. That case settled as part of
Intel’s January accord with its rival.  Officials of Santa Clara, California-based Nvidia refused
to comply with New York’s requests for those analyses, saying
Strine had ordered them to be kept confidential, according to
court filings.  The judge said Intel already had turned over all documents
in the Delaware case to New York’s lawyers. “You’re not seeking
corporate knowledge,” he added. “You’re seeking litigation
counsel’s knowledge.”  Intel accounts for more than 80 percent of global computer-
chip sales, dwarfing  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , its closest
competitor.  The case is Intel Corp. v. Nvidia Corp., 4373-VCS, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  