-- 
Intercell, Merck Told to Enroll No More Patients in Vaccine Clinical Test

-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o   a n d   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-04-11T15:46:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/intercell-merck-advised-not-to-enrol-more-patients-to-trial.html
Merck & Co. and  Intercell AG (ICLL)  said a
safety panel advised halting patient enrollment in a test of an
experimental vaccine against a deadly hospital infection.
Intercell slid 28 percent.  The vaccine, known as V710, aims to prevent infection
caused by the Staphylococcus aureus bacteria. The independent
data monitoring committee recommended the suspension while it
weighs the benefits to the patients against the product’s risk,
the companies said in a statement.  Intercell Chief Executive Officer Gerd Zettlmeissl said the
product benefited some patients and the panel’s advice “doesn’t
mean this vaccine has failed and doesn’t mean that this program
will be stopped.” The decision is the second research
disappointment for Vienna-based Intercell in four months and the
stock sank to its lowest level in more than five years.  “This is a significant setback,” Peter Welford, an
analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in  London , wrote in a
report today. The vaccine was designed with Intercell’s
technology to identify antigens that trigger bacteria-fighting
antibodies, and the trial’s halt may “dent the perceived long-
term value of this platform,” he wrote.  Intercell administered the vaccine to patients about two
weeks before they were scheduled to undergo heart surgery,
Zettlmeissl said in a telephone interview. They were monitored
for 90 days afterwards. About 7,700 people took part in the
trial, which combined the two most advanced stages of clinical
testing, with some receiving the medicine and some a placebo.  ‘Some Benefit’  The test “showed some benefit,” according to Zettlmeissl.
Merck and Intercell said they plan to provide an update on the
product once the risk-benefit analysis has been completed. The
data monitoring committee has sent recommendations to Merck,
which is reviewing them, said Nina Waibel, an Intercell
spokeswoman. There’s no timetable for the review to be
completed, she said.  Staphylococcus aureus is the most common cause of hospital-
acquired infections and accounts for about 40 percent of all
such cases, according to Intercell’s  website . Hospital-acquired
infections result in an “annual cost burden of more than $20
billion in the developed world.”  Intercell sank 2.32 euros, or 28 percent, to 5.88 euros at
the close of Vienna trading, cutting the company’s market value
to 285.6 million euros ($412.4 million). The drop was the
biggest since Dec. 13.  The stock has lost two-thirds of its value since that day,
when the company said that a vaccine patch to prevent diarrhea
in travelers failed in two patient studies.  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , is
responsible for clinical development, marketing and
manufacturing of the vaccine. Intercell is eligible for payments
tied to development goals and royalties on sales.  Results from the trial were due in the second quarter and
would have triggered a payment by Merck to Intercell in the
single-digit millions of euros, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas
said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net 
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  