-- 
IOI, Kumpulan, Mamee, Tan Chong Motor: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-04-11T00:29:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/ioi-kumpulan-mamee-tan-chong-motor-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index fell 0.3 percent to
1,557.49.      IOI Corp. (IOI MK): Unilever may review supply agreements
with IOI after the Malaysian  palm-oil  producer drew scrutiny
from an industry group following allegations about land disputes
and illegal deforestation. Unilever, the world’s second-biggest
consumer-goods company, is “concerned” about sanctions being
levied against IOI by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, it
said in a statement. IOI slid 1.2 percent to 5.65 ringgit.        Kumpulan Perangsang Selangor Bhd. (KUPS)  : The property
group said its Konsortium Abass Sdn. unit plans to refinance
debt as its cash flow position has weakened. Konsortium has
received an offer letter from financial institutions for a term
loan of as much as 82.5 million ringgit ($27 million) to partly
refinance existing borrowings, Konsortium said in a statement.
The stock was unchanged at 1.23 ringgit.        Mamee-Double Decker Bhd. (MAMEE)  : The food producer said
it proposed a capital repayment of 179.8 million ringgit to
minority shareholders as part of a plan to de-list the company.
The plan is an opportunity for shareholders to “realize their
investments” and comes as the company seeks to raise bank
borrowings to boost production capacity and improve productivity
amid higher raw material prices, Mamee-Double said in a
statement. The stock rose 1.4 percent to 3.60 ringgit on April
6. The shares were suspended on April 7.  Mithril Bhd. (MITH)  : The building materials supplier had
the rating on its redeemable convertible loan stock cut by
Malaysian Rating Corp. to its lowest level after defaulting on a
coupon payment of 1.25 million ringgit. It was cut to D from B,
Malaysian Rating said in an e-mailed statement. Mithril gained
7.7 percent to 7 sen.        Tan Chong Motor Holdings Bhd. (TCM)  : The auto assembler
said it was granted approval to raise its investment in a
Vietnam automotive manufacturing plant to $40 million from $15
million. The facility, which will make and assemble buses,
trucks and cars, is expected to be completed ahead of schedule
in the third quarter of 2012, Tan Chong said in a stock exchange
filing. The stock fell 0.2 percent to 4.74 ringgit.       Yung Kong Galvanizing Industries Bhd. (YKGI MK): The
manufacturer of steel products plans to list its Starshine
Holdings Bhd. unit on the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange. Starshine
is seeking to gain direct access to the  capital market  to raise
funds for its future expansion, according to a company
statement. The stock added 3.7 percent to 56 sen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net  