-- 
Missouri Democratic Attorney General Opposes Health Law Insurance Mandate

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-04-11T18:21:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/missouri-democrat-koster-says-he-opposes-federal-health-care-law-mandate.html
Missouri Attorney General Chris Koster, who had been a Republican until switching parties in
2007, said Congress exceeded its authority when it passed a law
requiring citizens to obtain health insurance, according to a
filing with a federal appeals court.  The Obama administration asked the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Atlanta to overturn a Jan. 31 ruling by U.S. District Judge C.
Roger Vinson in Pensacola,  Florida , that the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act is unconstitutional. The U.S. argued the
mandate portion of the law was “a valid exercise of Congress’s
commerce power.” Missouri legislators passed measures calling
on Koster to oppose the 2010 statute.  “The federal courts, in reviewing this aspect of the law,
must either expand Congress’ Commerce Clause authority, justify
the provision on alternate constitutional grounds, or strike
down the individual mandate,” Koster, a Democrat, said in a
letter accompanying his so-called amicus, or friend-of-the-
court, brief.  In August, Missouri voters approved a measure that
prohibits laws that seek to compel individuals or employers to
participate in a health-care system. In January, the state House
of Representatives adopted a resolution calling on Koster, 46,
to challenge the validity of the federal health-care law. The
state Senate approved a similar measure.  Tracy Schmaler , a spokeswoman for the  U.S. Department of
Justice , didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  “The resolutions passed by the General Assembly are non-
binding on this office,” Koster said in the letter, “but they
are impactful, as they give voice to the political will of
Missourians.”  Koster, a former prosecutor, served in the Missouri state
senate before running for attorney general.  The case is State of Florida v.  U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services, 11-11021, U.S. 11th Circuit Court of Appeals
(Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  