-- 
Italian Production Rebounded in February as Global Trade Boosts Recovery

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-04-11T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/italian-production-rebounded-in-february-as-global-trade-boosts-recovery.html
Italy ’s industrial production rose
in February as executives expected reviving global trade to
support the recovery in  Europe ’s fourth-biggest economy.  Output increased 1.4 percent from January, when it fell a
revised 1.7 percent, Rome-based  statistics office Istat  said
today. Economists had forecast a 1.7 percent gain in February,
according to the median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Output climbed 2.3 percent from a year earlier.  Italian business confidence unexpectedly rose last month as
executives turned optimistic about the export outlook. Gross
domestic product increased 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier, with exports up 10.1 percent. Even so, the
recovery slowed in the three months through December, with GDP
at 0.1 percent, down from 0.3 percent in the previous quarter.  With the  unemployment rate  close to the highest level since
monthly records began in 2004,  consumer spending  remains weak
and demand for Italian products abroad may be affected in coming
months by a stronger euro. The currency shared by 17 nations has
appreciated 8 percent against the dollar since January.  Growth “remains driven by foreign demand,” employers’
lobby  Confindustria  said in a March 23 report. “Household
spending and investments are still lackluster.”  French industrial output also climbed in February, Paris-
based national statistics office Insee said today. Output rose
0.4 percent from January, less than the 0.5 percent median
estimate by 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Italian new-car registrations fell 28 percent in March, the
Transportation Ministry said on April 1. Sales by  Fiat SpA (F) ,
Italy’s biggest manufacturer, dropped 32 percent.  Credit Rating   Growth will determine whether Italy can maintain its Aa2
credit rating over the coming years, Alexander Kockerbeck, a
Moody’s Investors Service sovereign-debt analyst, told reporters
on April 7.  “Italy has good opportunities to stabilize debt and
interest costs but the quality of economic growth is a key
factor,” he said. “Without any growth it’s hard to cut debt.”  Italy had a public debt of 1.8 trillion euros ($2.6
trillion) at the end of 2010 or 119 percent of GDP. Finance
Minister Giulio Tremonti kept the deficit at 4.5 percent of GDP
at the end of last year, below his target of 5 percent, helping
the country avoid contagion from Europe’s debt crisis.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said in a report last week that in 2010 “Italy’s GDP per capita
and productivity have continued to decline relative to the upper
half of the OECD countries.”  It called on the government of Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  to overhaul competition policy, the labor market and
the tax system to revive growth.  Gains in production were led by coke and refined oil,
transport vehicles and machinery and equipment, today’s report
showed. Istat originally reported a 1.5 percent decline in
output in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 