-- 
Ivory Coast’s Ouattara Asks United Nations to ‘Neutralize’ Gbagbo Weapons

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   S t e v e   R h i n d s
-- 
2011-04-11T12:29:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/ivory-coast-s-ouattara-asks-united-nations-to-neutralize-gbagbo-weapons.html
Ivory Coast  President-elect  Alassane Ouattara  asked the  United Nations  to “neutralize”
heavy weapons used by  Laurent Gbagbo ’s forces in Abidjan, as the
fight for control of the nation’s commercial capital dragged
into its second week.  French tanks and personnel carriers left an army base today
and headed to Abidjan, according to the  Associated Press , a day
after United Nations and French helicopters fired on Gbagbo’s
residence and the state television offices in the city.  “The operation aims to sustainably ensure protection of
civilians, the normalization of life in Abidjan and the
resumption of activities throughout the national territory,”
Ouattara said in an e-mailed statement today.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said he requested French
assistance to mount the military operation in Abidjan, where
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  described the situation as
“alarming.” Sarkozy said the civilian population, UN personnel
and foreign diplomatic missions have continued to be the target
of armed attacks and looting in several parts of Abidjan.  Gbagbo disputes Ouattara’s internationally recognized
victory in a Nov. 28 election and refuses to step down as
president. While many of his troops retreated or defected as
Ouattara’s fighters swept down from the north of the country to
Abidjan, Gbagbo’s forces have renewed fighting in the largest
city of the world’s top cocoa producer.  Fleeing  “The humanitarian situation in these parts is alarming,”
Sarkozy said in an e-mailed statement today from Paris.  British Embassy employees in Abidjan were evacuated on
April 9 after it came under fire from forces loyal to Gbagbo.
The British Foreign Office in  London  yesterday said its staff
and “diplomats of other nationalities from neighboring
residences” left “under the auspices of the United Nations.”  Israeli Embassy staff members were rescued by the UN on
April 9 after being holed up for several days. One diplomat was
injured during the evacuation to neighboring Ghana, according to
an e-mailed statement from Israel’s Foreign Ministry.  More than 1 million  people  have fled their homes during the
four-month crisis, according to the UN. French and UN
peacekeeping forces in Abidjan began helicopter strikes against
Gbagbo’s forces April 4.  Human Rights  Human Rights Watch said that, before February, abuses
against civilians were committed mainly by forces loyal to
Gbagbo. That changed after fighters nominally under the control
of Ouattara’s prime minister,  Guillaume Soro , began an offensive
that month.  The atrocities culminated in a March 29 massacre of
hundreds of civilians in Duekoue, near the  Liberian border , home
to a large number of people from the Guere ethnic group, most of
whom supported Gbagbo, according to a  report  by New York-based
 Human Rights Watch  dated April 9.  The Hague-based International Criminal Court said it has
started an  investigation  into alleged crimes in Ivory Coast, and
Ouattara’s administration has agreed to submit to its
jurisdiction.  France  “firmly supports” Ouattara’s intention to pursue
the perpetrators of such acts in the national and international
courts, Sarkozy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rhinds at   srhinds@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 