-- 
Ivory Coast’s Gbagbo Captured After Battle for Abidjan

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-04-11T18:34:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/ivory-coast-s-gbagbo-is-captured-by-french-handed-over-to-ouattara-forces.html
Ivory Coast’s  former leader  Laurent Gbagbo , whose refusal to step down after losing November’s
election triggered a civil war, was captured after French troops
and forces loyal to  Alassane Ouattara  laid siege to his home.  Ouattara’s Republican Forces “entered the residence of
Gbagbo and it was they who went to catch him in his bunker,”
Ouattara’s prime minister,  Guillaume Soro , told France 24
television. “Gbagbo and his wife are alive and in good
health.” They were taken to the Golf Hotel, which his rival
Ouattara has used as his base since the Nov. 28 presidential
vote.  The capture may signal an end to the violent four-month-
long impasse that left Ouattara, the internationally recognized
winner of the election, unable to take office. His fighters
advanced rapidly to the south from their northern bases last
month and started the assault on Abidjan March 31, backed by air
strikes from  United Nations  and French forces.  While French forces “helped” the pro-Ouattara fighters in
the operation to capture Gbagbo, they did not make the arrest,
Laurent Teisseire, a spokesman for the French Defense Ministry,
said by phone.  Cocoa Rises  Cocoa for May delivery rose as high as 3.2 percent, or $94,
to $3,079 per metric ton, the highest since Dec. 6, before
trading 1.4 percent higher at $3,028 in  New York . The country’s
defaulted $2.3 billion Eurobonds rose as much as 1.8 percent, to
53.833 cents on the dollar, their highest in four months. They
traded 0.4 percent lower at 52.688 cents at 6:06 p.m. in
Abidjan.  The capture will be “an opportunity for the people of that
country, who have been through so much in recent months, to find
a democratic way forward,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
told reporters in  London .  Cheering and gunfire was heard in parts of the city of 4
million, including the Cocody neighborhood where Gbagbo’s home
is located, after word of the arrest spread.  “We have been liberated,” said resident Amidou Ouadrago.
“The man was wearing us out.”  In Blockhaus, a neighborhood that supports Gbagbo, gunfire
was heard and militia were seen in the streets, said Moussa
Diarra, a resident. “They are still carrying weapons,” he
said. “I can hear shooting in my street.”  Coup Attempt  Gbagbo, 65, had ruled the world’s top cocoa producer for a
decade, weathering a coup attempt in 2002 and a subsequent civil
war that left the country split between a rebel-held north and
government-controlled south.  “We don’t know what could happen next,” said Deux
Plateaux resident Isaac N’Guessan. “It is maybe a first step,
but I’m not sure this is the end.”  Backing from Ivory Coast’s army and police had allowed
Gbagbo to resist four months of international pressure as the
UN,  African Union , European Union and U.S. called on him to hand
over power to Ouattara. Gbagbo alleged voter fraud and said he
won the election.  “The rebels and their French buddies are just trying to
pull the wool over our eyes,” said Paul Gballo, a resident of
the Youpougon neighborhood of Abidjan. “I won’t believe it
until I have seen it on state television. This is nonsense.”  Gbagbo tried to nationalize banks and cocoa stocks as
sanctions cut off his sources of income. He attacked Ouattara,
whose father’s family is from neighboring Burkina Faso, as a
foreigner and a tool of French interests and capitalized on
resentment from the mainly Christian south toward the country’s
predominantly Muslim north.  History Professor  The former history professor and longtime opponent of ex-
dictator Felix Houphouet-Boigny came to power in 2000 after he
won an election in which Robert Guei also claimed victory.
Thousands of protesting supporters enabled Gbagbo to enforce his
victory.  The 2002 uprising and prolonged conflict led to him
extending his presidential mandate, which was supposed to end in
2005.  The “transition” sends a signal to leaders in  Africa  and
around the world that “there will be consequences for those who
cling to power,” said U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  Sporadic Fighting  A peace deal signed in 2007 between Gbagbo and the rebel
New Forces led to the installment of Guillaume Soro as prime
minister. Soro joined Ouattara’s administration after the
election.  Ouattara, a former prime minister under Houphouet-Boigny
and deputy managing director of the  International Monetary Fund ,
may still face “sporadic fighting” in Abidjan, said Martin
Robert, Africa analyst at IHS Global Insight in London.  “There are going to be pro-Gbagbo neighborhoods that are
going to be difficult to pacify,” he said by phone.  Gbagbo “will have to answer for his acts,” said
Ouattara’s adviser Appolinaire Yapi after the arrest, declining
to provide details.  A trial in  Ivory Coast  would be “enormously
destabilizing,” said IHS’s Robert. “I think they’ll certainly
hand him over to some international jurisdiction.”  The U.K.’s Hague said Gbagbo “should be treated with
respect and any judicial process that follows should be a fair
and properly organized judicial process in Cote d’Ivoire.”  Gbagbo “has been credibly implicated in crimes against
humanity and other atrocities for which he should be held to
account,” said Daniel Bekele, Africa director at New York-based
 Human Rights Watch , in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax and Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 