-- 
Tepco Wants to Hasten Start of Kashiwazaki Reactor to Ease Power Shortages

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-04-13T16:09:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/japan-quake-disrupts-cooling-fukushima-reactors-evacuation-zone-widened.html
Tokyo Electric  Power Co. wants the
government to hasten approvals for the restart of a reactor shut
by an earthquake in 2007 as Japan grapples with power shortages
after last month’s disaster.  Three of seven reactors at the Kashiwazaki Kariwa station
remain closed while the utility known as Tepco carries out work
to strengthen their resistance to earthquakes. Reinforcement
work could continue at two of the units, while a third is
restarted, Tepco President Masataka Shimizu said yesterday.  “Though I can’t give a detailed timeframe, I would like to
get approval to restart the No. 3 reactor early, this year if
possible,” Shimizu said.  Tepco has battled to stop radiation leaking from the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi station amid hundreds of aftershocks since
the March 11 earthquake and tsunami triggered the worst nuclear
crisis since Chernobyl.  Japan  is facing the prospect of power
shortages this summer after the disaster cut national generating
capacity by 8 percent as of April 8.  Kashiwazaki Kariwa, the world’s biggest power plant, was
shut in July 2007 after a quake bigger than anticipated in its
design struck Niigata, northwest of  Tokyo , triggering a fire and
radiation leaks.  Kashiwazaki Mayor Hiroshi Aida said there will be no
progress on starting the three reactors until Tokyo Electric
resolves the Fukushima incident, according to a report by  Kyodo
News . City spokesman Takehiko Katagiri confirmed Aida’s comments
on April 6. Local government approval is required for a restart.  Shimizu today confirmed that Fukushima Dai-Ichi reactors 1-
4 will be decommissioned, while the fate of two remaining units,
which were shut at the time of the disaster, remains undecided.  Companies including Toshiba Corp., Hitachi Ltd. and Areva
SA are vying for contracts to dismantle the reactors, work that
may take three decades and cost more than 1 trillion yen ($12
billion), according to engineers and analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  