-- 
Japan's 2-10 Bond Yield Spread Widens on Nuclear Crisis, Spending Outlook

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-04-12T06:08:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/japan-bonds-may-rise-after-quake-hits-near-crippled-nuclear-power-plant.html
The spread between  Japan ’s 2- and
10-year yields widened to the most in 11 months as a nuclear
crisis spurred demand for short-term debt while concern about
 government spending  to rebuild pushes up longer-maturity rates.  Two-year notes was supported as Japanese stocks slid the
most in four weeks and the government raised the severity of a
nuclear plant accident to the highest level in the standard
global scale. Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano 
said the March 11 earthquake may result in a larger hit to the
economy than previously seen, indicating a greater appetite for
stimulus measures and higher government spending.  “We continue to see negative factors on the economy such
as the nuclear issue, while concern lingers about worsening
fiscals,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist at Norinchukin
Research Institute Co. in  Tokyo . “It’s hard for bonds to move
higher or lower.”  The spread between two- and 10-year yields widened to 1.135
percentage points, the most since May, as of 3:06 p.m. in Tokyo,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rate on the benchmark 1.3 percent bond due March 2021
rose one basis point to 1.33 percent at Japan Bond Trading Co.,
the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. Two-year yields
fell half a basis point to 0.195 percent.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery dropped 0.05 to
138.62 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average
dropped 1.7 percent.  Aftershocks  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency today raised
the rating of the accident at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant to 7
as increasing radiation prompted the government to widen the
evacuation zone and aftershocks rocked the country. The accident
was previously rated 5 on the global scale, the same as the 1979
partial reactor meltdown at Three Mile Island in  Pennsylvania .  A magnitude-6.2 earthquake struck off the coast of Chiba,
the prefecture east of Tokyo, at 8:08 a.m. local time today,
according to the  U.S. Geological Survey , swaying buildings in
the capital.  “The damage to the economy may be bigger than we initially
expected,” Yosano told reporters in Tokyo. “In addition to
disruptions in the supply chain, we have the added seriousness
of the situation with the nuclear power plant,”  The Ministry of Finance sold 700 billion yen ($8.34
billion) of 30-year bonds today. The lowest price at the auction
was 99.15 yen, higher than 99.10 predicted by 13 traders in a
Bloomberg survey.  The lowest price was 0.11 yen below the average, compared
with a difference of 0.13 at the previous sale last month. The
so-called tail is the difference between the lowest and the
average price. The shorter the tail, the more bids are clustered
around the average.  “The 30-year auction went fine,” said  Satoshi Yamada ,
chief quantitative analyst in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
“Stock losses are helping people buy back bonds, supporting
super-long-term securities.”  Thirty-year yields fell half a basis point to 2.255 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 