-- 
Jollibee, Metro Pacific: Philippine Stocks Preview

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-04-11T02:35:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/jollibee-metro-pacific-tanduay-philippine-stocks-preview.html
(Corrects third paragraph to show that Metro Pacific won’t
object to the bidding of the LRT1/MRT3 O&M contract.)  Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Philippine trading. Stock symbols are
in parentheses, and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index rose 0.5 percent to
4,241.01.  Jollibee Foods Corp. (JFC)  : The largest Philippine fast-
food company said unit Fresh N’Famous Foods Inc. will stop
operations of Manong Pepe Karinderia, according to a stock
exchange statement today. “The move is part of Jollibee’s plan
to concentrate its resources in building larger quick-service
restaurant businesses,” the company said in the filing. The
stock rose 1.1 percent to 95 pesos.  Metro Pacific Investment Corp. (MPI PM): The power line
operator said in an exchange filing today it has not withdrawn
its proposal to expand the MRT3 line and it won’t object to the
bidding of the LRT1/MRT3 O&M contract. Metro Pacific gained 2.9
percent to 3.56 pesos.  Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (TEL)  : The
nation’s biggest phone company said it had partnered with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and an NTT Group subsidiary to offer cloud-based
Microsoft Corp. software services to corporate clients, the
Philippine Daily Inquirer  reported  on April 10, citing a company
statement. The stock lost 0.2 percent to 2,346 pesos.  Tanduay Holdings Inc. (TDY)  : The rum distiller said it
expects 2011 sales volume to increase by 10 percent after it
rose 20 percent in the first quarter, according to a statement
filed to the stock exchange. Tanduay’s shares were unchanged at
3.12 pesos when they last traded on April 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net . 