-- 
JPMorgan Seeks Ruling in Bondholder Claims Linked to Dimon

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-04-11T19:39:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/jpmorgan-seeks-court-ruling-in-bondholder-claims-linked-to-dimon.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  asked a judge
to dismiss claims filed by three retirement funds alleging the
company, with the complicity of Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , ignored its duty to protect $500 million in notes while
gaining $1.7 billion in profits from secured investments.  “JPMorgan knowingly and intentionally enriched itself
despite having actual knowledge that its actions would
substantially impair the financial interests” of noteholders,
three pension plans contend in court papers filed in federal
court in  Manhattan  as part of a 2009 lawsuit.  The bank’s decision to enrich itself included “direct
involvement by Jamie Dimon,” the funds’ lawyers said in a March
31 brief.  “These accusations are false and have no basis in fact,”
 Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, said today in an e-
mail.  “The undisputed evidence shows that JPMorgan Chase’s
commercial and fiduciary businesses were separated,” thus
“preventing any arguable conflict,” the bank’s lawyers wrote
in a brief seeking judgment in their favor.  The lawsuit centers on JPMorgan’s 2007 purchase for the
funds of $500 million in medium-term notes secured by assets of
Sigma Finance, an offshore investment vehicle. The bank is
accused by the plaintiffs, who ended up with about 6 cents on
the dollar, of knowing Sigma would fail.  Deep Discounts  They allege JPMorgan made money in another deal by
secretly providing repurchase financing to Sigma secured by
“high-quality assets in large blocks at deep discounts” to
“capitalize on very big money making opportunities as the
market deteriorates,” according to court papers.  “From the start, Dimon was keenly interested in Sigma’s
assets,” and sought “a very real picture of the assets that
will be unwound,” according to one JPMorgan employee’s e-mail
cited in the funds’ brief.  In another e-mail “between senior JPMorgan officials,”
the company acknowledged before the repurchase completion that
Sigma “is unlikely” to continue as a going concern, according
to court papers.  JPMorgan was unchanged at $46.84 in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading at 3:35 p.m. in New York.  The case is Board of Trustees of the AFTRA Retirement Fund
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 09-cv-00686, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  