-- 
Kenya to Seek Direct Talks With ICC on Referral of Cases

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-04-11T07:27:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/kenya-to-seek-direct-talks-with-icc-on-referral-of-cases-1-.html
Kenya will apply directly to the
 International Criminal Court  to transfer the cases of six of its
citizens accused of organizing post-election violence in 2008
back to Kenya, a government spokesman said.  The  United Nations Security Council  on April 8 failed to
agree on an African Union-backed proposal by Kenyan Vice
President Kalonzo Musyoka to have the cases deferred for a year,
Kaplich Barsito, Musyoka’s spokesman, said in a phone interview
today from Nairobi, the capital. It will not stop the East
African nation from taking up the issue with the ICC, he said.  “The vice president is happy that the UN Security Council
formally discussed the Kenyan matter on Friday, meaning the
international community is now seized with the issue that  Kenya 
is raising,” Barsito said. “But we are taking a two-pronged
approach, which also means applying directly to the ICC.”  More than three years after a disputed December 2007
presidential election triggered ethnic violence that left 1,500
people dead and displaced 300,000 in East Africa’s biggest
economy, no one has been convicted of orchestrating the unrest.
The violence abated after Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki signed a
power-sharing accord with his political rival  Raila Odinga , who
was installed as prime minister.  Kenyan lawmakers have thwarted several attempts to set up a
domestic tribunal.  New Constitution  Kenya is committed to appointing a new chief justice,
director of public prosecutions and attorney general,
reorganizing the justice system and creating a  Supreme Court 
under a new constitution promulgated in August.  It also aims to create a local mechanism to try suspects
accused of post-election violence, enabling it to use provisions
in the statute that created the ICC to request a transfer of the
cases to a domestic court.  Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  and suspended Higher
Education Minister William Ruto are among the six suspects
facing accusations of crimes against humanity by the ICC.
Hearings to decide whether the suspects will stand trial are
scheduled to begin on Sept. 1 and Sept. 21 at The Hague. All six
men deny any wrongdoing.  The Kenyan government has filed applications alleging the
charges are inadmissible and disputing the court’s jurisdiction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  