-- 
Kroenke Agrees to Terms for $1.2-Billion Takeover of Arsenal Soccer Club

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-11T13:58:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/kroenke-agrees-to-terms-for-1-2-billion-takeover-of-arsenal-soccer-club.html
Stan Kroenke, the owner of  National
Football League  and the National Basketball Association teams,
agreed to boost his stake in Arsenal  soccer club  to 63 percent,
triggering a takeover bid for the English Premier League team.  Kroenke pledged to buy 16 percent stakes held by Danny Fiszman and Nina Bracewell-Smith, as well as a small amount of
stock owned by the club’s remaining directors, his Kroenke
Sports Enterprises said today. The purchase price of 11,750
pounds a share values the club at about 731 million pounds ($1.2
billion). Kroenke is being advised by Deutsche Bank AG.  The American billionaire property developer already owns
almost 30 percent of London-based Arsenal, and will have to
offer other shareholders the same price as Fiszman and
Bracewell-Smith. Kroenke, who owns the NBA’s Denver Nuggets and
the  St. Louis Rams  of the NFL, has been an investor in Arsenal
since 2007, and sits on the soccer team’s board. He’ll spend
240.6 million pounds on the new shares.  “We are excited about the opportunity to increase our
involvement with and commitment to Arsenal,” Kroenke said in
the statement. “Arsenal is a fantastic club with a special
history and tradition and a wonderful manager in  Arsene Wenger .
We intend to build on this rich heritage and take the club to
new success.”  By securing the holdings of the third- and fourth-largest
shareholders in the club, Kroenke will raise his stake to a
total of 62.89 percent. Investors who own more than 30 percent
of a company must make a mandatory offer for the remaining
shares under stock market rules.  Arsenal’s second-biggest shareholder is Russian billionaire
 Alisher Usmanov , with more than 27 percent. Unlike Kroenke, he
does not have a seat on the board of the club. Rollo Head, a
spokesman for the Russian metals magnate, declined to comment.  Arsenal has debt of 110.4 million pounds, and Kroenke is
planning to buy the shares with cash and no debt will be added
to the team, according to his offer.  The disclosure is likely to be welcomed by the Premier
League and the team’s fans after leveraged takeovers by U.S.
investors at Manchester United and Liverpool stoked supporter
unrest. Arsenal becomes the 10th foreign-controlled team in
 England ’s top division.  Kroenke’s rise at Arsenal comes after a difficult start.
The club’s chairman Peter Hill-Wood said the Gunners “don’t
need his money and don’t need his sort” when talk of the U.S.
sport investor buying the club surfaced in 2007. Kroenke has
asked the board to stay in place.  Bracewell-Smith’s family has been connected with the club
since 1938. In April last year, she hired Blackstone Group LP to
sell the stock after being forced off the board two years
earlier.  ‘Sports Experience’  “I don’t think there will be a tremendous change in the
way that the club has been run,” Arsenal Chief Executive
Officer Ivan Gazidis said on the team’s website. “We’re looking
forward to Mr. Kroenke bringing also his sports experience to
the table.”  Fiszman, who’s fighting cancer, has agreed that Kroenke can
buy his shares within 20 days of his death. The Swiss-based
diamond dealer moved his Arsenal investment into a trust earlier
this year.  Arsenal is the second-richest English team in terms of
revenue, behind  Manchester United , and fifth in  Europe ,
according to accountant Deloitte LLP.  The club’s last trophy was the F.A. Cup in 2005. Some fans
have complained that the current owners and coach Wenger aren’t
spending enough on talent to keep up with teams including 
Chelsea, owned by Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich , and
 Manchester City , bought in 2008 by Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan of  Abu Dhabi . Liverpool was bought by the owners of the
 Boston Red Sox  last year, and the U.S.-based Glazer family owns
Manchester United.  Kroenke’s arrival is unlikely to bring big changes in the
way the club operates. In a statement on its website today, the
team said the investor was committed to the team’s “self-
sustainable” model and wouldn’t use his own funds to buy
talent.  U.S. Interests  Wenger said he welcomed the move by Kroenke, who also owns
the  National Hockey League ’s Colorado Avalanche and Major League
Soccer’s Colorado Rapids.  “I believe he has the best interests of Arsenal at
heart,” Wenger said. “He understands the club’s heritage and
traditions and our ambition to run the club in a way which
protects our long-term future.”  Arsenal won 3-1 at Blackpool yesterday and is second in the
Premier League, seven points behind Manchester United, which has
played one more game. The league represents Arsenal’s final
chance of silverware this season as it already has been knocked
out of the F.A. Cup and the Champions League, and lost to
Birmingham in the League Cup final.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  