-- 
Kudrin Deputy Pankin to Head Financial Markets Regulator

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-04-11T15:05:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/kudrin-deputy-pankin-to-head-financial-markets-regulator-1-.html
Dmitry Pankin, a deputy to Russian
Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, took over today as head of an
expanded financial markets watchdog designed to simplify policy
making and help encourage investment.  Pankin, 53, replaced Vladimir Milovidov as head of the
 Federal Financial Market Service , Kudrin told reporters today in
Moscow. The service took over as the regulator of  Russia ’s
insurance industry as part of a merger announced by President
 Dmitry Medvedev  last month.  Medvedev announced  10 steps  to improve the investment
climate this year, part of his quest to double the pace of
economic growth to match rival emerging-market countries
including China and  India . The ministry will set strategy on
financial regulation while the markets service and the central
bank are responsible for overseeing compliance, Kudrin said.  “Now the Finance Ministry is finally responsible for the
regulation of all financial markets,” he said, adding that the
unified markets regulator’s first task will be creating a
“central depository” for securities.  Several Russian banks have lost their licenses in recent
years for using illegitimate depositories, which told regulators
at the central bank that the lenders held securities that didn’t
actually exist.  ‘Operationally Independent’  The markets service will remain “operationally
independent” because it reports directly to the government,
rather than the  Finance Ministry , Kudrin said.  The ministry will serve as the “controlling body” for
policy decisions, Pankin told reporters after the announcement.
Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak, who had been sharing
duties with Pankin, will handle their responsibilities alone,
Kudrin said.  Pankin oversaw Russia’s April 2010 return to international
capital markets for the first time since the 1998 default and
the sale of its debut ruble-denominated Eurobond this year.  According to his official biography, Pankin worked with
Kudrin and Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  in the St. Petersburg
local government in the early 1990s. From December 1994 to
November 2009 he was chief of the St. Petersburg Bank of
Reconstruction and Development and again from August 2000 to
June 2003.  Milovidov’s Resignation  Pankin joined the Finance Ministry’s department for
international relations, state debt and state financial assets
in June 2004, becoming its director in November 2005. He was
promoted to deputy minister in January 2008.  Milovidov, 51, submitted his resignation in March after
“doing what I wanted to do” at the service, he said in an
 interview  with Vedomosti. He was named to the post in 2007 after
serving as an adviser to then-Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov.  The Moscow State Institute of International Relations has
hired him as a department head. Milovidov told the newspaper
that he has had several offers and expects to start another job
in the coming days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in New York at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 