-- 
Kurdistan PM Expects Iraq to Start Paying Foreign Companies

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-04-11T16:19:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/kurdistan-pm-expects-iraq-to-start-paying-foreign-companies.html
Iraq ’s Oil Ministry should pay
foreign companies working in Kurdistan after having received oil
export statements from the semi-autonomous province, said
Kurdistan Regional Government Prime Minister Barham Salih.  The KRG has presented the federal  Finance Ministry  with an
oil export statement for the delivery of more than 5 million
barrels of oil since shipments resumed Feb. 3 after a halt of
more than a year, he said in a release on the KRG  website .  “The KRG expects to receive from Baghdad its first payment
for the Kurdistan Region contractors, as previously agreed with
Prime Minister Nuri Maliki,” he said. The KRG also received a
draft of the oil and revenue sharing law for its review, he
said.  The Kurdish authorities had angered the central government
by signing their own production agreements with foreign
companies such as  DNO International ASA (DNO)  of Norway and Turkey’s
 Genel Enerji AS . The Oil Ministry refused to recognize these
contracts, and exports of Kurdish oil that began in June 2009
ended a few months later amid a payments dispute. The foreign
companies are still owed $400 million to $500 million in unpaid
revenue.  About 115,000 barrels a day of oil is currently being
pumped from Kurdistan for export through a pipeline to the
Turkish port of Ceyhan, Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Hussain Al- Shahristani said in Paris on April 6.  More Facilities  The KRG is ready to discuss with the central government the
construction of new pipelines and facilities to export more oil
and natural gas to  Turkey  and  Europe , Salih said in the
statement. The Iraqis were in discussion with Turkish
authorities over details of plans to ship oil from the southern
Iraqi provinces to Turkey and Europe, he said.  The KRG has also agreed to help resume electricity imports
from Turkey to Iraq’s northern Mosul governorate, he said.  Frequent outages across Iraq hamper reconstruction, and
protests over unreliable electricity supplies have made the
issue a major concern of the government. Iraq’s power plants and
distribution system have suffered through years of conflict,
sanctions and sabotage.  Iraq, home to the world’s fifth-biggest oil reserves, needs
foreign investment and expertise to help ramp up energy exports
and rebuild an economy shattered by years of conflict, economic
sanctions and sabotage. The country has signed 15 oil and gas
licenses since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion that ousted the regime
of former President  Saddam Hussein .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  