-- 
Australian Dollar Declines Versus Yen as Japan's Nuclear Crisis Damps Risk

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-04-12T19:10:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/n-z-dollar-rises-versus-yen-on-bollard-s-commodity-outlook.html
Australia ’s dollar fell the most in
almost four weeks against the yen after Japan raised the
severity rating for its nuclear crisis to the level of the 1986
Chernobyl disaster, damping demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie weakened for a second day as U.S. stocks slumped
and commodities tumbled. New Zealand’s dollar rose against most
of its major counterparts, touching a five-month high against
the greenback after the nation’s  Reserve Bank  said exports will
support the currency.  “The Japanese nuclear crisis is likely to weigh on
sentiment,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a senior foreign-exchange
analyst at Forecast Pte Ltd. in Singapore. “There are a lot of
speculators who may have to cut their positions” in the
Australian and  New Zealand  dollars, he said.  Australia’s dollar fell 1.3 percent to 87.66 yen at 3:08
p.m. in  New York , from 88.79 yesterday. The Aussie earlier slid
2.2 percent in the biggest intraday drop since March 17. The
Aussie fell 0.2 percent to $1.0479. New Zealand’s currency
dropped 0.4 percent to 65.70 yen. The kiwi gained 0.7 percent to
78.49 U.S. cents after touching 78.85, the highest since Nov. 9.  The kiwi advanced against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg except the yen and the Swiss
franc after Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard
said agricultural export prices are likely to hold up.  “Analysis by the bank indicates New Zealand’s agricultural
export prices are likely to remain elevated for some time,”
Bollard said in Ashburton on the  South Island , according to a
statement from the central bank. “ Monetary policy  would need to
counteract any rise in inflation expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  