-- 
Nasdaq CEO Greifeld Needs NYSE Holders to Embrace Bid That Board Rejected

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-04-11T20:15:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/nasdaq-ceo-greifeld-needs-nyse-holders-to-embrace-bid-that-board-rejected.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , operator of
the second-biggest U.S. stock exchange, will take its $11.3
billion unsolicited bid for NYSE Euronext to shareholders after
its directors rejected the offer in favor of their merger
agreement with  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)   NYSE Euronext affirmed its $9.67 billion agreement with
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse yesterday, saying it will create
more value and has greater odds of winning regulatory approval,
according to a statement released after a meeting in  New York .
Nasdaq OMX Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said his
joint bid with  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  of Atlanta to break
up the operator of the New York Stock Exchange has had “very
positive” reaction from shareholders.  Failing to win the endorsement from directors including
 NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  means
Greifeld must persuade shareholders that his offer, valued 17
percent more than Deutsche Boerse’s, is superior. The bid comes
during an unprecedented period of exchange takeovers, with more
than $20 billion of proposed acquisitions announced in the last
six months.  “Neither of these deals is without risk,” said Ian McDonald, a Baltimore-based U.S. exchanges analyst at T. Rowe
Price Group Inc., NYSE Euronext’s biggest owner with a 7.3
percent stake on Dec. 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show. “But
a more than 15 percent spread between the offers seems quite
large even if it was obvious that one deal was riskier than the
other. Shareholders can’t and hopefully won’t ignore that.”  Biggest Shareholders  NYSE Euronext’s five biggest holders as of Dec. 31 -- T.
Rowe Price, State Street Corp., Vanguard Group Inc., Legg Mason
Inc. and Cramer Rosenthal McGlynn LLC -- together control 20
percent of the company’s outstanding stock, Bloomberg data show.  Deutsche Boerse’s deal was valued at $36.96 a share at 9:23
p.m. New York time yesterday, compared with the $43.13-a-share
offer from  Nasdaq  OMX and ICE. New York-based Nasdaq OMX and ICE
included a cash component of $14.24 a share, while Deutsche
Boerse’s deal is all stock. NYSE Euronext is valued at 14.5
times the average analyst estimate for 2011 earnings under
Deutsche Boerse’s bid. The offer from Nasdaq OMX and ICE is
priced at 16.9 times those forecasts.  NYSE Euronext shares fell 2.9 percent to $37.59 at 4 p.m.
New York time today, while Deutsche Boerse rose 1 percent to
54.98 euros. Nasdaq OMX retreated 1.5 percent to $28.03, and ICE
climbed ended the day at $120.55, the same price as April 8.  Persuading Investors  Greifeld and ICE CEO Jeffrey Sprecher will focus on
persuading shareholders to vote against the  Deutsche Boerse 
agreement when they meet to consider it, said  Ed Ditmire , an
exchange analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in New York. The
companies haven’t set a date for that vote. The annual meeting
for shareholders is April 28.  “It would be a story of shareholders trying to exert more
influence over the procedure,” Ditmire said. “The other thing
they could do is urge shareholders to make changes in the board
and management in hopes of putting in management that will back
the Nasdaq deal.”  NYSE Euronext called the Nasdaq OMX-ICE offer “highly
conditional” and said it was likely to result in higher debt
and layoffs. Accepting it would subject the companies to
antitrust clearance that may not be forthcoming, according to
the board’s statement yesterday.  ‘Loosely Worded’  “This proposal that’s been presented, which is loosely
worded and full of unanswered questions, may appear on the
surface to be more valuable,” Niederauer said in an interview
yesterday. “But until you assess the tax leakage, the synergies
and the other potential execution risks that we talked about,
it’s hard to really say that that’s an apple and an apple.”  The Deutsche Boerse all-stock agreement keeps NYSE Euronext
whole and the combined entity would create a futures exchange
operator that rivals Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s
largest. Nasdaq OMX and ICE would split the company, giving
Nasdaq OMX the listings, equities and options businesses and
combining ICE with the Liffe derivatives platforms.  Nasdaq OMX and ICE said in a statement yesterday that their
offer is the “clearly superior proposal,” and that splitting
NYSE Euronext’s derivatives and equities units would put the
divisions under managers who specialize in those businesses,
creating more long-term value.  Cost Cuts  The Deutsche Boerse deal has about 400 million euros ($578
million) in cost and revenue benefits, according to the Feb. 15
agreement. Nasdaq OMX and ICE said on April 1 that their bid
would generate $740 million, accomplished by eliminating jobs
and closing trading systems. Deutsche Boerse also faces more
risks in integrating the businesses, according to the statement
yesterday.  “NYSE Euronext’s board of directors is depriving its
stockholders of the benefits of a superior proposal,
disregarding the fundamental corporate governance principles
that it has espoused for the rest of corporate America,”
Greifeld said in yesterday’s statement. “The feedback we have
received from NYSE Euronext stockholders is very positive, and
we would expect NYSE Euronext would, at the very least, meet
with us.”  Sprecher said he expected shareholders to voice
“displeasure” about the board’s rejection.  “We will continue meeting with investors, customers and
regulators to highlight the many ways in which our proposal is
superior, not only for the stockholders of NYSE Euronext, but
also for market participants in the U.S. and  Europe ,” Sprecher
said in the statement yesterday.  Deutsche Boerse doesn’t plan to raise its offer and is
confident it can close the transaction in the fourth quarter,
according to three people familiar with the matter, who declined
to be identified because talks are confidential.  Regulatory Approval  In citing its concern about regulators, NYSE Euronext
directors signaled they believe the U.S. government is more
likely to object to the monopoly in company listings created by
Nasdaq OMX buying NYSE Euronext’s U.S. operations than European
regulators are to block the merger on antitrust grounds.
Greifeld said he is confident his offer would win approval.  “At end of day, both have issues, both have some hair on
them, but both are pretty doable,” said  Jamie Selway , managing
director at New York-based Investment Technology Group Inc.
“The level of concern from antitrust regulators, while
different, are of equal level on both sides.”  Deutsche Boerse may have an easier time addressing
competition concerns than Nasdaq OMX-ICE, said Mark Alexander, a
Hartford, Connecticut-based lawyer who focuses on antitrust
issues at law firm Axinn, Veltrop & Harkrider LLP.  ‘Significant Problem’  “With Deutsche Boerse, the antitrust issues are manageable
because even if regulators can’t be satisfied that whatever
issues there are won’t limit competition, you can divest a
business,” Alexander said. “With Nasdaq/NYSE, the antitrust
risk is the deal. It appears to be a pretty significant problem
and there’s no way to fix it. You can’t sell assets peripheral
to the deal, while with Deutsche Boerse the main value of the
transaction can still be realized.”  A wave of exchange mergers began in October, when  Singapore
Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  offered A$8.35 billion ($8.82 billion) for Sydney-
based  ASX Ltd. (ASX)   London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  said Feb. 8, a
day before Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext announced they were
in talks, that it would buy Toronto-based TMX Group Inc. for
1.94 billion pounds ($3.18 billion). The ASX deal was blocked by
the Australian government last week.  NYSE Euronext is under no obligation to auction itself to
the highest bidder under laws governing so-called mergers of
equals, and directors can stick with the Deutsche Boerse
agreement should they prefer it, according to  John Coffee , a law
professor at  Columbia University  in New York. He said the next
significant event in the bidding contest is the vote by NYSE
Euronext shareholders.  Bird in Hand  “Its shareholders could vote against the merger, but given
the serious antitrust issues with a NYSE-Nasdaq merger, they may
prefer the bird in the hand to the bird in the bush,” Coffee
said in an e-mail.  Yesterday’s unanimous vote isn’t proof that NYSE Euronext
directors prefer the Deutsche Boerse deal, said Peter Kovalski,
manager of two financial-services mutual funds at Alpine Woods
Investments in Purchase, New York, which manages $6 billion
including shares of NYSE Euronext. The board may be trying to
spur a higher bid from Nasdaq OMX, he said.  “They’re doing what they need to do,” Kovalski said. NYSE
Euronext “may continue to be committed to the Deutsche Boerse
deal but go with a better bid from Nasdaq down the road. From a
monetary standpoint, I want them to go with the highest price
for shareholders. But I don’t want them to walk away from
Deutsche Boerse, pay the breakup fee, then encounter regulatory
problems with the Nasdaq-ICE transaction and be left out in the
cold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 