-- 
New Zealand Boom Driving Up Currency, May Quicken Inflation, Bollard Says

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-04-11T23:07:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/new-zealand-boom-driving-up-currency-may-quicken-inflation-bollard-says.html
New Zealand ’s economy will get a
boost from higher farm export prices that will underpin the
nation’s currency and may feed inflation expectations which the
central bank would need to counter, Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard said.  “If households and firms use the income boost from higher
commodity prices and exchange rates to bring forward consumption
and investment, or increase borrowing, then pressure on
resources in New Zealand would lead to more inflationary
pressure,” Bollard told a farmers group in Ashburton on the
South Island yesterday. “ Monetary policy  would need to
counteract any rise in inflation expectations.”  New Zealand’s dollar rose after the central bank today
released a statement on Bollard’s  comments . He lowered the
official cash rate to 2.5 percent last month to bolster
confidence after the nation’s deadliest earthquake in 80 years
struck the southern city of Christchurch on Feb. 22.  New Zealand’s currency rose to 66.20 yen as of 9:07 a.m. in
Sydney from 65.97 yen in  New York  yesterday. It advanced to
78.24 U.S. cents from 77.98 cents yesterday, when it fell 0.4
percent.  The value of New Zealand’s commodity exports gained for a
seventh month to a record in March, according to an index
published by ANZ National Bank Ltd. on April 4.  New Zealand’s terms of trade, which measures the amount of
imports New Zealand can buy from a fixed quantity of exports,
rose to a 36-year high in the fourth quarter as milk, lumber and
meat prices surged.  N.Z. Dollar  “The central bank expects the higher terms of trade to
continue to be reflected in the  exchange rate , as it is
currently,” Bollard’s statement said today.  The so-called kiwi dollar gained 9.7 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  the past 12 months and reached a five-month high of
78.48 U.S. cents yesterday.  “The terms of trade are at a 30- or 40-year high and the
central bank is starting to recognize this,” said  Craig Ebert ,
senior markets economist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington. “They are perhaps not as comfortable about the
inflation pressure that may come from it.”  Bollard said a stronger currency will deliver the benefits
of the rising terms of trade to the community through more
wealth and cheaper imports.  “There is increasing tolerance for a strong  New Zealand
dollar ,” Ebert said. “They seem to be saying ‘if the terms of
trade are that strong and are that threatening on the inflation
front we will be tolerant of the currency remaining strong.’”  Ten of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last month
expected Bollard will keep borrowing costs unchanged until 2012.
Four forecast a rate rise in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  