-- 
Facebook Claimant Says He Has Zuckerberg's E-Mails to Prove 50% Ownership

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-12T22:22:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/new-york-man-files-new-facebook-complaint-claiming-he-owns-50-percent.html
E-mails allegedly written by
Facebook Inc. co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  are cited in a new
court filing byPaul Ceglia as proof of his claim that a 2003
contract gave him 50 percent of the company.  The revised complaint, filed yesterday in federal court in
Buffalo, New York, includes new allegations supporting Ceglia’s
claim to own part of  Palo Alto ,  California-based Facebook , the
world’s biggest social-networking site. Ceglia says Zuckerberg
sent him numerous e-mails discussing the terms of the contract
and the early development of “The Face Book.”  “They’re exactly what you would expect between two people
trying to develop a website,” said Robert Brownlie, a lawyer
for Ceglia, referring to the e-mails in a telephone interview.  Ceglia alleges that Zuckerberg defrauded him, lying about
the early success of “The Face Book” at  Harvard University ,
where Zuckerberg was a student at the time. Ceglia claims he is
entitled to part ownership of Facebook, a closely held company
worth as much as $55 billion, according to Sharespost.com, an
online marketplace for investment in companies that aren’t
publicly traded.  ‘The  Social Network ’  On the same day that Ceglia amended his complaint, a
federal appeals court upheld the settlement of a years-long
legal dispute dramatized in the Academy Award-winning 2010 film
“The Social Network” that pitted Zuckerberg against former
classmates from Harvard who accused him of stealing the idea for
Facebook.  “This is a fraudulent lawsuit brought by a convicted
felon, and we look forward to defending it in court,” said  Orin Snyder , a lawyer for Facebook, in an e-mailed statement. Snyder
may have been referring to Ceglia’s 1997 guilty plea to
possession of hallucinogenic mushrooms in Carthage,  Texas .
Ceglia was fined $15,000 and permitted to return to New York
state, according to court files.  In an interview with Bloomberg in July, Ceglia said he
regretted the incident. He didn’t return a voice-mail message
yesterday. Brownlie didn’t return an e-mail today seeking
comment on Snyder’s characterization of his client.  Snyder, a partner in the firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP,
called Ceglia’s original claim “ridiculous,” adding that
“this newest complaint is no better.”  New Lawyers  Ceglia also filed papers yesterday switching lawyers from
Terrence Connors, from the Buffalo firm Connors & Vilardo LLP,
to a team of lawyers from DLA Piper LLP, one of the world’s
biggest law firms. DLA Piper has 3,500 attorneys in 29
countries, according to its website. Former New York Attorney
General Dennis Vacco is also part of the legal team.  In yesterday’s ruling by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San
Francisco , a panel of judges rejected a request by former
Harvard studentsCameron and Tyler Winklevoss to undo a
settlement they reached with Zuckerberg in 2008. The Winklevoss
twins argued the 2008 agreement should be voided because
Facebook didn’t disclose an accurate valuation of its shares
before they agreed to settle for $65 million in stock and cash.  The Winklevosses will ask a larger panel of judges on the
appeals court to review the case, said Jerome Falk, an attorney
for the brothers.  ‘Stalling’ Upperclassmen  Among the e-mails that Ceglia cited in his new complaint is
one dated Nov. 22, 2003, in which Zuckerberg allegedly told him:
“I have recently met with a couple of upperclassmen here at
Harvard that are planning to launch a site very similar to ours.
If we don’t make a move soon, I think we will lose the advantage
we would have if we release before them. I’ve stalled them for
the time being,” Zuckerberg said, before asking for another
$1,000 from Ceglia, according to the papers.  The Winklevosses were Harvard seniors when Zuckerberg put
Facebook online in 2004.  Ceglia claims in his complaint that he contributed “his
time, ideas, knowhow, and other ‘sweat equity’” to the start of
Facebook. He claims he and Zuckerberg formed a general
partnership in 2003 and that Ceglia should have gotten half-
ownership when Facebook was incorporated the following year.
Ceglia seeks unspecified damages and a judicial accounting of
what Zuckerberg gained from Ceglia’s alleged half-interest over
the years since then.  Fifty Percent  “Ceglia is entitled to receive 50 percent of the total
equity interest in Facebook Inc. received by, and promised to
Zuckerberg, including, but not limited to, stock,  stock options 
and restricted stock units,” Ceglia claimed in the complaint.  Ceglia originally sued in state court in  New York ’s
Allegany County June 30, claiming a two-page “Work for Hire”
contract signed by Zuckerberg in 2003, when he was an 18-year-
old freshman at Harvard, entitled Ceglia to half of the company,
plus 1 percent per day that the start of the site, called “The
Face Book,” was delayed. At the time, Ceglia’s total demand was
for 84 percent of Facebook. The case was later transferred to
federal court in Buffalo.  In the new complaint, Ceglia said that, at Zuckerberg’s
request, he agreed in 2004 not to enforce the provision in the
alleged contract that would have entitled him to a majority of
Facebook.  “Zuckerberg sent to Ceglia e-mails complaining that a
provision in the agreement giving Ceglia an additional 1 percent
interest in the business for each day after Jan. 1, 2004, that
‘The Face Book’ website wasn’t complete, was unfair because it
would give Ceglia more than 80 percent ownership of the
business, including thefacebook.com website,” Ceglia said in
the new complaint.  Different Years  The allegations in the complaint conflict with claims by
Zuckerberg, Facebook and others that Zuckerberg conceived of the
website as a Harvard sophomore in 2004, not in 2003, as Ceglia
claims.  According to the complaint, Ceglia hired Zuckerberg through
an ad on Craigslist.com to write computer code for a project of
Ceglia’s called StreetFax.com. After several telephone
conversations, Ceglia agreed in April 2003 to pay Zuckerberg
$1,000 for work on StreetFax plus a $1,000 investment in “The
Face Book,” which Zuckerberg was developing.  Ceglia and Zuckerberg met in the lobby of the Radisson
Hotel in  Boston  on April 28, 2003, where they signed the
contract, Ceglia said.  ‘Women and Beer’  According to one e-mail, Zuckerberg asked if he could adapt
the source code from StreetFax for use on The Face Book. And in
a Sept. 2, 2003, e-mail, Ceglia dissuaded Zuckerberg from
charging alumni a monthly fee for using the site.  “Maybe we could make it free until it was popular and then
start charging?” Ceglia suggested, according to one excerpt.  On Jan. 5, 2004, Ceglia questioned Zuckerberg about delays
in launching The Face Book, according to the complaint.  “I’m starting to think you just blew that money, Mark,”
Ceglia allegedly said in an e-mail. “You know perfectly well
that you can’t just take a person’s investment and then spend it
on women and beer or whatever you do up there in Harvard.”  Later, after Zuckerberg launched the site, he allegedly
rejected Ceglia’s idea to sell college T-shirts and mugs on The
Face Book, saying in a Feb. 6, 2004, e-mail: “I feel I must
take creative control and I just cannot risk injuring my site’s
reputation by cheapening it with your idea of selling college
junk.”  Ceglia also claims that Zuckerberg hacked his StreetFax
website “on multiple occasions,” changing the code and forcing
it to shut down, when Ceglia refused to pay Zuckerberg more than
they’d agreed for his work on the project.  On July 22, 2004, a week before Zuckerberg incorporated
Facebook, Ceglia claims, Zuckerberg sent an e-mail wishing him
happy birthday and offering to return $2,000.  “Another summer is here and I still don’t have any time to
build our site, I understand that I promised I would, but other
things have come up and I am out in California working during
break,” Zuckerberg wrote, according to Ceglia.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  