-- 
NFL Players Union, League Ordered by Judge to Start Mediation on Thursday

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-04-11T22:08:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/nfl-players-league-must-begin-mediation-thursday-over-lockout-judge-says.html
The  National Football League  and
players seeking to halt an owner-imposed lockout were ordered by
a federal judge today to begin formal mediation Thursday.  U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson appointed a
magistrate judge to meet with representatives of the players
tomorrow and the NFL the following day. U.S. Chief Magistrate
Judge Arthur J. Boylan will meet with both sides April 14 and
conduct all mediation sessions, Nelson said.  The players, led by quarterbacks  Tom Brady , Drew Brees and
 Peyton Manning , sued the NFL last month, alleging antitrust
violations after the collapse of collective bargaining talks.
Owners of the 32 NFL teams declared a lockout after the
negotiations failed.  “This mediation will not have the effect of a stay on this
litigation,” Nelson said in today’s order. “The players’
motion for a preliminary injunction remains under advisement.”  The labor dispute involves the formula by which the New
York-based league and its players would divide about $9 billion
annual revenue. The NFL draft of college players is still
scheduled to start April 28.  The National Football League Players Association dropped
its status as a union after talks toward a new labor agreement
failed. This action gave the players the right to pursue an
antitrust lawsuit, the players’ lawyers said in court papers
last month.  Judge’s Suggestion  The players want Nelson to stop the lockout. The league
contends that only the  National Labor Relations Board  has
such authority.  The players told Judge Nelson last week they were willing
to try to resolve the dispute in mediation as she suggested.  This offer was contingent on the league’s agreement that
the talks wouldn’t be used against them “in some way,” such
as, “arguing that that such mediation efforts constitute
‘collective bargaining’ or otherwise arise out a ‘labor
relationship,’” players’ lawyer Barbara Berens wrote in court
papers April 7.  The league that day suggested mediation under the auspices
of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service in  Washington ,
which had supervised 17 days of mediation between the NFL and
the players union. The agency has “a 17-day head start over any
other potential mediator,” NFL lawyer  David Boies  said in an
April 7 filing.  Legal Claims  Participation in this mediation “will not be used against
them in any way,” Boies wrote. “We are not asking the players
in any way to abandon their chosen litigation forum or to
compromise any of their legal claims.”  Berens and NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  didn’t immediately
return calls for comment.  Nelson today also consolidated with the players’ suit a
separate antitrust action filed by former NFL players against
the league.  The lawsuit is Brady v. National Football League, 11-cv-
639, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota ( St. Paul ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  