-- 
Nigeria’s Ruling PDP Leads Rivals in Legislative Vote as Counting Proceeds

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-12T19:18:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/nigeria-s-ruling-party-takes-lead-in-early-returns-from-parliamentary-vote.html
Nigeria ’s ruling People’s
 Democratic Party  was leading in the election for the Senate and
the  House of Representatives , while suffering losses compared
with the 2007 vote, according to the electoral commission.  The PDP took 59 of the 90 Senate seats declared so far and
140 of 262 seats in the lower chamber, the  Independent National
Electoral Commission  said. Fifteen of the Senate’s 109 districts
and 48 of the House’s 360 constituencies will hold the vote on
April 26 because of problems with the ballot papers, INEC said.
The PDP won 263 seats in the House and 87 seats in the Senate in
the last elections.  The April 9 vote, which was delayed by seven days, was a
prelude to next week’s presidential contest in  Africa ’s top oil
producer that pits President Goodluck Jonathan against 18
rivals, including former military ruler Muhammadu Buhari and the
ex-head of the anti-graft agency, Nuhu Ribadu. On April 26,
voters will choose governors and legislatures in Nigeria’s 36
states.  “The results made publicly available so far imply the
likelihood of a more competitive legislative environment which
could boost transparency and accountability standards,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-market strategist at Standard Bank Group
Ltd., said in an e-mailed note. “The downside is the potential
for a weak majority or even a hung House of Representatives.”  Investor Appetite  Sectarian and election-related clashes that killed at least
200 people and the central bank’s bailout of lenders have made
the nation’s stocks so cheap that  Mark Mobius , Standard Bank Plc
and Renaissance Capital say it’s time to buy. Investors are
looking beyond the current turmoil as crude above $100 a barrel
spurs 8 percent economic growth this year in Nigeria while bank
profits surge.  Shares tumbled 11 percent from this year’s peak in January,
reducing the  MSCI Nigeria (MXNI)  Index to its lowest valuation compared
with the MSCI Frontier Markets Index since December 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Bank shares trade 30 percent below
the average for lenders in  Europe , the Middle East and Africa
relative to assets, according to data from Renaissance Capital.  “Of course there will be volatility as a result of the
elections, but from a longer range point of view we are quite
bullish,” Mobius, who manages about $34 billion of assets as
the executive chairman of Templeton’s Emerging Markets Group,
said in a phone interview from  Singapore  yesterday.  Opposition Wins  The opposition Action Congress of Nigeria, or ACN, was
second with 14 Senate seats and 52 in the House. Other parties
that won seats include the Congress for Progressive Change, the
All Nigeria  People’s Party , the Labor Party, the All Progressive
Grand Alliance and the Democratic People’s Party.  “We hope that the general success achieved in this first
round will carry over to the next two elections,” U.S.
Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Johnnie Carson
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “The Nigerian
government should hold accountable all those who engage in
electoral malfeasance, the U.S. certainly will.”  Several high-profile PDP candidates suffered losses,
including Dimeji Bankole, speaker of the House, and Senator
Iyabo Obasanjo-Bello, daughter of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, as the ACN swept most seats in the southwest region.
The ruling party won senatorial seats in three southeastern
states, while losing three in northern Katsina state to Buhari’s
CPC.  ‘Orderly Conduct’  INEC dealt with many of the problems that led to the
postponements in the vote and there was “orderly conduct” in
most of the country, the Nigeria Election Situation Room, a
coalition of civic groups monitoring the vote, said in an e-
mailed statement on April 10.  At least 12 people died in an explosion that hit an INEC
office on the eve of the election in the central city of Suleja,
while in the northern city of Kaduna, a suspected bomber died
when an explosive he was handling went off prematurely,
according to police spokesman Yemi Ajayi. Suleja, which is about
50 kilometers (31 miles) north of Abuja, was rocked by an attack
on March 3 that killed 10 people when explosives were hurled a
rally of the PDP.  Two separate explosions at polling centers in the
northeastern city of Maiduguri killed three people and injured
several others. No group claimed responsibility for the blasts.  Intimidation  Violent intimidation of voters and attempts to snatch
ballots were reported in some constituencies in the southern
oil-rich Niger River delta and the northern city of Zaria in the
north, INEC Chairman  Attahiru Jega  said on April 9.  “The bomb blasts in Niger and Borno States, and other
isolated incidents of violence, marred the otherwise peaceful
atmosphere that prevailed,” Festus Mogae, the former president
of Botswana who is leading the observer group of the
Commonwealth nations of former U.K. colonies, said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement.  Nigeria’s last election was condemned by local and
international observers for being marred by violent intimidation
of opponents, falsification of figures and ballot-snatching.
Jonathan, who succeeded former President Umaru Yar’Adua on his
death in May 2010, pledged to conduct free elections and
appointed Jega, a respected academic, to head INEC.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation of more than 140
million, is the fifth-largest source of U.S. oil imports. Hague-
based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of San Ramon,  California ,  Total SA (FP)  of
 France  and  Italy ’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the state-
owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90
percent of the West African nation’s oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 