-- 
TNK-BP Shares Rise to Three-Month High on BP Buyout Report

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-04-11T15:11:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/tnk-bp-rises-most-in-three-months-on-report-bp-looking-at-buyout.html
OAO TNK-BNP Holding, the Moscow-
traded unit of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Russian venture, rose to the highest in
almost three months after a report that BP will ask for
government permission to buy out its partners.  TNK-BP rose 2.2 rubles, or 2.4 percent, to 93.49 rubles as
of the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, the highest since Jan. 19.
That values the company at 1.4 trillion rubles ($50 billion)  BP may make a bid with OAO Rosneft for the 50 percent of
TNK-BP held by four billionaires in an attempt to salvage a
share swap and Arctic exploration deal with Russia’s state oil
company, the Financial Times reported today, without saying
where it got the information.  “Even though BP has a lot of obligations in the  Gulf of
Mexico , they had $19 billion in cash on the balance sheet at the
end of 2010 and have more capacity through debt arrangements,”
said  Jason Gammel , an industry analyst at Macquarie Capital Ltd.
in London.  BP Chief Executive Officer Robert Dudley is trying to save
the Rosneft deal, announced at a meeting with Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  in January, before an April 14 deadline for the
share swap expires. The partners in TNK-BP, led by interim CEO
 Mikhail Fridman , persuaded a London court to halt the deal
because it infringed the venture’s shareholders agreement.  “The situation frankly became messy,” Deputy Prime
Minister Sergei Ivanov said on April 8.  Final Decision  As license holder, Rosneft will make the final decision on
whom it chooses as a partner for the arctic Kara Sea, Ivanov
said. If the court denies BP the right, then Rosneft will act
alone or theoretically it will choose another partner, he said.  “It will be I am afraid a long legal battle,” Ivanov said
of the litigation between BP and TNK-BP over rights.  BP spokesman  Vladimir Buyanov  declined to comment on the
report. Rosneft spokesman Rustam Kazharov also declined to
comment, as did  Dmitry Peskov , a spokesman for Putin.  Last week, the arbitration panel left in place an
injunction blocking the $7.8 billion share swap between BP and
Rosneft. The arbiters allowed BP to seek an extension to the
swap agreement’s April 14 deadline.  Stan Polovets , CEO of Access-Alfa-Renova, the group that
represents the billionaire shareholders, said on Feb. 4 that
they had no intention of selling their stake in TNK-BP. An AAR
spokesman declined to comment further today.  An offer for 50 percent of TNK-BP would likely be the
biggest oil and gas deal since  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s $41 billion
all-stock purchase of XTO Energy in Dec. 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  