-- 
No Cocoa Plunge Seen as Ivory Coast Chaos Curbs Supply

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a ,   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-04-11T19:48:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/no-cocoa-plunge-seen-as-ivory-coast-chaos-curbs-supply-correct-.html
(Corrects cocoa’s gain since the election in second
paragraph.)  Cocoa prices are unlikely to plunge
after the capture of Ivory Coast’s former leader  Laurent Gbagbo 
potentially ended a civil war because chaos at banks and ports
will keep curbing exports from the world’s biggest producer.  Gbagbo, whose refusal to cede power after elections in
November triggered the conflict, was captured today after French
troops and forces loyal to rival  Alassane Ouattara  besieged his
home. Cocoa for July delivery rose 1.4 percent to $3,027 a
metric ton as of 11:47 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.
Futures rose as much as 35 percent since the poll, retreating 19
percent since March 3 as investors bet Ouattara would prevail.  “Cocoa prices should come down by another $100 but not
more as there is a logistics nightmare waiting for the supply
chain on the ground -- banking, storage, trucking, workers,
cash,” said Luis Rangel, a vice president at ICAP Futures LLC
in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . “No one will return until the guns
are silenced.”  The surge in cocoa added pressure to world food prices the
 United Nations  says reached a record in February. Ivory Coast
exports slumped as much as 94 percent after the European Union
imposed curbs on sales and Ouattara ordered companies to stop
exports to cut off funds to his rival. That also hurt the
economy, with cocoa, oil and coffee the country’s biggest
sources of revenue and about 68 percent of people dependent on
agriculture, according to the CIA World Factbook.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the world’s largest container
shipping line, said today it has a vessel sailing to  Ivory Coast 
to load cocoa as soon as April 13.  ‘Sufficiently Calm’  “We have ships on the West Africa coast, so we are ready
to enter as soon as it’s sufficiently calm at the terminal,”
Sonny Dahl, Maersk’s director of West Africa services, said by
phone from Copenhagen. “The big challenge, reading a message
from my country manager, is getting cargo ready in ports.”  Cocoa for July delivery rose 1.2 percent to 1,911 pounds
($3,134) a metric ton on the NYSE Liffe exchange in London.
Investors are concerned there also may be delays to exports
because the new government has yet to establish some of the
administration needed for sales.  “The capture of Gbagbo removes a lot of uncertainty, with
the market now seeing little standing in the way to complete
normalization of cocoa trade,” Keith Flury, an analyst at
Rabobank in  London , said in an e-mail. “The creation of a cocoa
export tax system would be very high on the new government’s
priority list.”  Exporter Warehouses  The 27-nation EU lifted curbs on the ports of Abidjan and
 San Pedro  last week. About 440,000 tons of beans are being
stored in exporter warehouses near Abidjan, an adviser to
Ouattara said on March 14. That’s equal to about 12 percent of
global supply in the 2009-2010 crop year, according to the
London-based International Cocoa Organization.  The cocoa stored in those warehouses is probably still
usable, Rik Balcaen, a director at Belgian chocolate
manufacturer Belcolade, said April 7. Beans can be stored for as
long as 10 years with the right ventilation and if they are
pest-free, he said.  Global cocoa output will exceed demand by 119,000 tons in
the year that began on Oct. 1, the ICCO estimates. Production in
Ivory Coast may rise 6.7 percent to 1.325 million tons.  “The fact that the market continued to trade at a premium
today shows that people want to be sure the war has ended,”
said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at Lind-
Waldock, a brokerage in  Chicago . “Cocoa can fall to $2,650 only
after the supplies are normalized, say in a month or two.”  Hedge funds  have reduced their bets on higher prices for
four consecutive weeks. Their net-long position in  New York- 
traded futures shrank 3.3 percent to 13,064 contracts in the
week ended April 5, according to data from the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  There may also be delays in cocoa trading because Ivory
Coast’s banking system needs to be revived, said Jonathan Parkman, joint head of agriculture at Marex Financial Ltd. in
London.  “If you haven’t got any money and you can’t move cocoa
without paying people, nothing is going anywhere,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at +44-20-7330-7304 or
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 