-- 
NXP Semiconductor Weighs Stock Sale to Broaden Investor Base

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-04-12T08:22:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/nxp-chief-clemmer-weighs-second-half-stock-sale-to-broaden-investor-base.html
NXP Semiconductor NV (NXPI)  is considering
asking its owners for another stock sale this year to increase
the number of freely traded shares and meet demand from
shareholders aiming to invest in the Dutch chipmaker.  Some major shareholders last month sold about 25 million
shares in a secondary offering, a stake with a market value of
$816 million as of yesterday, increasing the company’s free
float to about 25 percent from 13 percent.  “Ultimately we’d like it to be about 80 to 85 percent or
more,” Chief Executive Officer Richard Clemmer said yesterday
in an interview at the company headquarters in Eindhoven, the
Netherlands. “Within the next three to six months, we will
probably talk with the shareholders again.”  Clemmer is trying to bolster growth and spending on
equipment after restructuring the business by cutting jobs,
closing factories and refinancing debt since he started in
January 2009. He said the company is not for sale after analysts
said rivals may be interested in parts of NXP.  NXP, whose customers include Dell Inc.,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Nokia
Oyj and  Siemens AG (SIE) , fell as much as 4.7 percent from its
intraday level on the Nasdaq Stock Market yesterday, closing 1.3
percent lower. In German trading, the shares dropped as much as
4 percent today.  “A possible share sale most of the time damps investor
sentiment,” Tom Muller, an analyst at  Theodoor Gilissen
Bankiers , said via phone today. “It also has become clear that
a takeover is not in sight, which has an impact on the share
price.”  ‘Difficult Periods’  The company posted an operating profit of $273 million for
2010, after a loss of $931 million a year earlier. Sales rose 25
percent to $4.4 billion. “We had some very difficult periods.
We were at the abyss and looked in but fortunately got to walk
away from it,” Clemmer said.  NXP and competitors including  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  and
Intel Corp. benefit as makers of consumer electronics and cars
have recovered from the recession and buy more computer chips.  Clemmer, a 60-year-old Texan, is looking for ways to
accelerate growth by making chips that help to reduce carbon-
dioxide emission and let people connect different mobile
devices. These chips are part of the company’s so-called “high-
performance mixed-signal” offerings, or HPMS, that also allow
companies to use ID-authentication to secure goods, he said.  Cutting Debt  “The high-performance mixed-signal market is expected to
grow with 9 percent to 11 percent or so in the next couple of
years and we think we can grow by about 15 percent,” Clemmer
said. “Earnings could even grow at a faster rate as we reduced
debt,” he said, adding that the debt will be well below $3
billion once the Sound Solutions business has been sold in the
second quarter.  NXP had more than $6 billion of debt after it was carved
out from Royal Philips Electronics NV in 2006, the CEO said.  NXP is also betting on investments in near-field
communication technology, which allows smartphone users to make
purchases by tapping them on or waving them in front of
electronic readers in stores. Apple may use the technology in
its iPhone 5 handset, Forbes reported earlier this year.  About 70 million NFC units may be sold this year, NXP said.
This will double in 2012 and probably approach 200 million to
300 million in the following year, Clemmer said.  NXP may be an interesting target for companies such as
 Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  because of its
near-field communication technology, while a full takeover of
the chipmaker is less likely, analysts including ING Wholesale
Banking’s Niels de Zwart, have said.  ‘Not for Sale’  “We are not for sale,” Clemmer said. “I haven’t had any
discussions with the CEOs of these companies in a number of
weeks and when I did it, it was as a customer.”  Texas Instruments’s April 4 announcement that it agreed to
buy  National Semiconductor Corp. (NSM)  for about $6.5 billion to add
higher-margin analog semiconductors is feeding speculation about
industry consolidation, analysts including Muller have said.  “We want to play the role of consolidator in the
industry,” Clemmer said, adding that the company will look for
acquisitions that add technology.  NXP Semiconductor was acquired by KKR & Co.,  Bain Capital 
LLC and three other private equity firms in 2006 in a $9.4
billion leveraged buyout from Philips.  The acquisition, which included assumed debt of 4 billion
euros, was the biggest LBO in the semiconductor industry’s
history at the time and was completed less than a year before
credit markets seized up in August 2007.  In August last year, KKR and Bain Capital sold shares in a
$476 million initial public offering. KKR still owns 19.2
percent of the stock, Bain Capital 15.4 percent and PPTL
Investment 14.2 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  