-- 
Obama Welcomes Arrest of Laurent Gbagbo in Ivory Coast

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-04-11T20:47:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/obama-s-administration-welcomes-arrest-of-laurent-gbagbo-in-ivory-coast.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama 
welcomed the arrest of Ivory Coast’s former leader  Laurent Gbagbo , calling it a “decisive turn of events” that has ended
an “illegitimate claim to power.”  “This represents a victory for the democratic will of the
Ivoirian people, who have suffered for far too long through the
instability that followed their election,” Obama said in a
statement.  Gbagbo lost elections that were “free and fair” and the
U.S. supported the effort to remove him from power, White House
press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters earlier today.  Gbagbo was captured today after French troops and forces
loyal to rival  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally recognized
winner of the Nov. 28 presidential election, laid siege to his
home.  “President Ouattara will need to govern on behalf of all
the people of Cote d’Ivoire, including those who did not vote
for him,” Obama said. “All militia groups should lay down
their weapons and recognize an inclusive military that protects
all citizens under the authority of President Ouattara.”  Gbagbo was taken to the  Golf Hotel , which Ouattara has used
as his base since the conflict started four months ago. Troops
loyal to Ouattara had attempted to capture Gbagbo since
surrounding his residence on April 5.  Ivory Coast  is the world’s biggest producer of cocoa. Cocoa
for July delivery rose 1.4 percent to settle at $3,028 a metric
ton at 11:48 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York . Futures rose
as much as 35 percent since the election, retreating 19 percent
since March 3 as investors bet that Ouattara would prevail. The
surge in cocoa added pressure to world food prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  