-- 
Mobius Buys Nigeria's Banking Stocks as Election Violence Sinks Valuations

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-04-12T15:33:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/mobius-buys-nigerian-banking-stocks-as-election-violence-sinks-valuations.html
Clashes in the run-up to  Nigeria ’s
elections that killed at least 200 people and the government’s
bailout of banks have made the nation’s stocks so cheap that
 Mark Mobius , Standard Bank Plc and  Renaissance Capital  say it’s
time to buy.  Nigeria’s shares tumbled 11 percent from this year’s peak
in January, reducing the MSCI Nigeria Index to its lowest
valuation compared with the MSCI Frontier Markets Index since
December 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Bank shares
trade 30 percent below the average for lenders in  Europe , the
Middle East and Africa relative to assets, according to data
from Renaissance Capital.  President  Goodluck Jonathan , a Christian from the south,
faces candidates including Nuhu Ribadu, a northern Muslim, in
elections a week after the parliamentary vote was beset by
bombings of two polling stations and delays caused by the late
arrival of ballot papers. Investors are looking beyond the
current turmoil as crude above $100 a barrel spurs 8 percent
economic growth this year for  Africa ’s biggest oil producer
while bank profits surge.  “Of course there will be volatility as a result of the
elections, but from a longer range point of view we are quite
bullish,” Mobius, who manages about $34 billion of assets as
the executive chairman of Templeton’s Emerging Markets Group,
said in a phone interview from  Singapore  yesterday. “Banks are
the biggest things we have in Nigeria,” including  Zenith Bank
Plc (ZENITHBA)  and  United Bank  for Africa Plc, he said.  Bank Earnings  Zenith Bank, Nigeria’s biggest lender by market value, said
last month that 2010 profit jumped 81 percent, and  Guaranty
Trust Bank Plc (GUARANTY) , the third largest, reported a 62 percent
increase.  First City Monument Bank Plc (FCMB) , which ranks eighth for
market value, posted a 12-fold surge in 2010 earnings and a
decrease in non-performing loans to 5.5 percent from 8.7 percent
of outstanding debt. United Bank for Africa, ranking fifth,
hasn’t yet reported 2010 earnings. All four are based in Lagos.  “There’s fantastic upside at the moment,” Bo MacEwan, the
head of trading at African Alliance Securities Ltd., a stock
broker with offices in 12 countries on the continent, said in a
phone interview from Johannesburg. “We are engaging our clients
to actually get stuck into the banks” he said, adding that
Zenith and Lagos-based Diamond Bank Plc were the “best call.”  Bailouts, Bombings  Central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi bailed out 10 of
Nigeria’s 24 lenders in 2009 and fired eight bank chiefs after
loans to equity speculators contributed to 700 billion naira
($4.5 billion) of non-performing debt, according to the Economic
and Financial Crimes Commission.  The government rescued lenders by buying bad debt totaling
2.04 trillion naira through its Asset Management Co. of Nigeria.
Amcon, as the state-owned vehicle is known, sold 20.7 billion
naira of bonds last week.  Banks’ fortunes are improving even amid violent clashes
linked to this month’s parliamentary and presidential votes.
More than 50 people have died in election-related fighting since
July, according to  Amnesty International , while sectarian
violence in the north caused at least 200 deaths since Dec. 24.  At least 12 people were killed in an explosion at the
office of the Independent National Electoral Commission in the
central city of Suleja on April 8. Two separate blasts at
polling stations in the northeastern city of Maiduguri killed
three people and injured several others.  Inflation Pressure  Jonathan has led the  People’s Democratic Party  since the
death in May of President Umaru Yar’Adua, a northern Muslim. The
ruling PDP has won the lead in 52 of the 82 Senate seats
declared to date, and 82 of 176 seats in the lower chamber.
Ribadu’s Action Congress of Nigeria, or ACN, came second with 13
Senate seats and 32 in the  House of Representatives .  The presidential election scheduled for April 16 pits
Jonathan against 18 candidates including Ribadu and Muhammadu Buhari, a northern Muslim and former military ruler. Jonathan
was leading at 62.1 percent in an opinion poll conducted by
Ipsos for ThisDay, the newspaper in Lagos reported on April 6.  Increased  government spending  before the elections has
fueled inflation, according to Sanusi. The central bank raised
its benchmark interest rate for a second time this year to slow
inflation, which is running above the central bank’s 10 percent
target. Prices climbed an annual 11.1 percent in February,
according to the National Bureau of Statistics in Abuja.  The parliament approved a 4.97 trillion-naira expenditure
plan for the 2011 fiscal year last month, 17 percent more than
Jonathan proposed in December  Export Earnings  The nation’s currency, the naira, fell to an 18-month low
against the dollar last month.  “If we get through the elections I think there’s
reasonable upside, it does look cheap by most metrics on the
equity side,” said Stephen Bailey-Smith, a London-based
emerging market strategist at Standard Bank Plc. Nigeria is
“pricing most of the bad news and not pricing much of the good
news and what a post-election economy would look like and really
where  oil prices  are,” he said.  While Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country, doesn’t get
the full benefit of higher oil prices as it relies on fuel
imports for more than 70 percent of its domestic needs, crude
accounts for 95 percent of export earnings.  Foreign currency reserves have climbed 8 percent this year
to $35 billion on April 7, according to the Abuja-based  central
bank’s figures , as crude surged 23 percent.  Valuation Gap  Growth of Africa’s third-largest economy is accelerating to
7.98 percent from 7.85 percent in 2010, according to government
estimates.  Economic growth may “accelerate” above 8 percent “if
they do a good job,” Mobius said. “There a lot of political
issues involved in the country and divisions, that’s going to be
ongoing.”  Nigeria is in the top five holdings for the $1 billion
Templeton has invested in frontier markets, Mobius said.  Banks comprise more than 30 percent of Nigeria’s All Share
Index. The 202-stock gauge rose less than 0.1 percent, to
24,681.99, at the 3 p.m. close in Lagos, according to an e-
mailed statement from the bourse.  The  MSCI Nigeria (MXNI)  Index, which includes the eight biggest
companies, is valued at 7.26 times profits, compared with the
average of 15.66 times for the MSCI Frontier Markets Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “With supportive macro-indicators and continued reform of
the banking sector, the likelihood that the equity market will
deliver is high,” Olaleye Adekeye, an analyst at Renaissance
Capital in Lagos, wrote in a March 29 report. “However, we
postulate that the ride will not be a smooth one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  