-- 
Oil-Price Risk Threatens Stronger Global Recovery, IMF Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-04-11T16:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/oil-price-risk-threatens-stronger-global-recovery-imf-says-1-.html
The threat of further oil-price
increases has become a “key downside risk” for global growth,
compounding the difficulties posed by overheating in emerging
economies and persistent unemployment in developed nations, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  The recovery is “stronger,” and the world economy will
expand 4.4 percent this year and 4.5 percent in 2012, the
Washington-based IMF said in its World Economic Outlook report,
leaving forecasts from January unchanged. Oil will rise 36
percent in 2011 to $107.16 a barrel, based on the average prices
of U.K. Brent, Dubai and West Texas Intermediate crudes, it
said.  “The recovery has become more self-sustaining” and
“global activity seems set to accelerate again,” the IMF said
in its World Economic Outlook report. The key risk to growth
“relates to the potential for  oil prices  to surprise further on
the upside because of supply disruptions.”  Countries face different priorities as emerging economies
from China to  Brazil  power the world’s second year of growth
since the recession. As  Group of 20  nations prepare to meet in
Washington this week, the IMF urged developed economies to start
narrowing budget deficits.  The IMF stressed an “urgent” need for  deficit reduction 
in the U.S., while recommending that emerging counterparts raise
interest rates and let their currencies appreciate amid
inflation pressures.  G-20 Negotiations  “The process of negotiation at the G20 is much more
difficult now than it was during the crisis,” IMF chief
economist  Olivier Blanchard  said at a news conference today.
“Countries have their own agenda.”  The IMF said that global economic prospects were good amid
“improvement in financial markets, buoyant activity in many
emerging and developing economies, and growing confidence in
advanced economies.” The predictions were more optimistic than
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, who expect expansion of
4.2 percent this year and next, according to the median of 74
forecasts.  Developing nations will grow 6.5 percent this year and next
while advanced economies will expand 2.4 percent in 2011 and 2.6
percent in 2012, the IMF said.  “Commodity prices have quickly returned to high levels”
with fast-growing economies underpinning demand, the IMF said.
“At the same time, supply responses have been slow.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw-materials
futures reached 757.22 points, the highest level since Aug. 4,
2008. Gold and tin climbed to records. The  United Nations  said
that world food prices that fell from a record in March may
rebound.  Oil Prices  Oil for May delivery fell $2.06, or 1.8 percent, to $110.73
a barrel at 12:07 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Futures settled at $112.79 a barrel on April 8, the highest
closing price since Sept. 22, 2008. Prices have risen 31 percent
in the past year.  The IMF projection was raised from $89.50 a barrel in
January.  While the IMF expects demand for commodities to moderate
and production to pick up this year, it said that the outlook
for oil markets “remains quite uncertain” amid continued
political turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa.  “For the type of increase we have seen we do not see major
effect on either growth or inflation,” Blanchard said today.
“If the increase was substantially larger we might think that
the computation we have done would be incomplete.”  Greater Flexibility  The fund urged emerging economies with current account
surpluses to allow greater exchange-rate flexibility, while
their developed counterparts should reduce debt and deficits,
step up financial repair and keep accommodative monetary
policies in place.  China’s currency “still appears substantially weaker than
warranted by medium-term fundamental” while  South Korea ’s won
“is also weaker than warranted,” the IMF said.  Within Group of Seven countries, the IMF cut the 2011
growth forecast for the U.K. to 1.7 percent from 2 percent. It
also lowered its prediction for the U.S. to 2.8 percent from 3
percent, though it now sees the world’s largest economy growing
2.9 percent in 2012, faster than the 2.7 percent expected
earlier.  Japanese Growth  Japanese growth was cut to 1.4 percent from 1.6 percent
after the nation’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami. The forecast
for next year was raised to 2.1 percent from 1.8 percent.  The IMF increased its prediction for the euro region by 0.1
percentage point for both years, now expecting 1.6 percent in
2011 and 1.8 percent in 2012.  The yen, the euro and the British pound “are now broadly
in line with medium-term fundamentals,” while the dollar
“still remains somewhat high relative to its fundamentals,”
the IMF said.  The IMF, which with European authorities is now considering
a financial aid request from  Portugal , said that risks persist
from “weak sovereign balance sheets” in advanced economies.  While investors’ focus is now on the euro region, where
Greece and Ireland were already bailed out, “risks also flow
from fiscal policy in the  United States , given large funding
requirements and heavy reliance on external sources,” the IMF
said.  ‘Very Sluggish’  In advanced economies, where unemployment remains high and
bank credit “is still very sluggish,” monetary policy can
remain accommodative, the IMF said. In the U.S. and the U.K. new
programs to purchase  government bonds  “appear unnecessary,
given current prospects for activity and developments in
inflation expectations,” it said.  Among major emerging markets, the fastest growth will be in
 China , which will expand 9.6 percent in 2011 and 9.5 percent
next year, according to IMF projections.  India ’s growth forecast was cut to 8.2 percent this year
and 7.8 percent in 2012. The IMF expects Brazil to grow 4.5
percent this year and 4.1 percent next year.  The IMF now expects inflation of 6.9 percent in emerging
economies this year, compared with 2.2 percent in developed
economies.  In a study of the G-20 nations, the IMF assigned what it
called “traffic lights” to each country’s growth, unemployment
and inflation rates to estimate which are overheating. The
economies of  Argentina , Brazil,  Indonesia  and India are all
flashing red across a majority of those indicators.  “Many emerging market economies will need to tighten
policies to lower the risk of a hard landing,” the IMF wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  