-- 
Oil Falls for a Second Day After IMF Cuts Growth Forecasts for U.S., Japan

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-04-12T06:59:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/oil-falls-for-a-second-day-after-imf-cuts-growth-forecasts-for-u-s-japan.html
Oil fell for a second day because
of concern fuel demand will slow after the  International
Monetary Fund  cut its U.S. and Japan growth forecasts, saying
high crude prices pose a risk to global economic expansion.  Futures headed for their biggest two-day drop in almost
five months after the IMF said in its World Economic Outlook
that the  U.S. economy  will expand at a slower pace than in 2010
amid an  unemployment rate  above 8 percent and a drop in  consumer
confidence . Oil also slipped as the African Union tried to
negotiate a cease-fire in Libya and Nigeria prepared for a
presidential election after violent clashes since July.  “The market is starting to be concerned over demand
destruction due to higher fuel prices,”  Mark Pervan , head of
commodity research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
in Melbourne, said in a note. “Markets will be keeping a close
eye on a potential Libyan cease-fire and election developments
in  Nigeria .”  Oil for May delivery slid as much as $2.05, or 1.9 percent,
to $107.87 a barrel, in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , and was at $108.64 at 2:37 p.m. Singapore
time. Yesterday, the contract fell $2.87, or 2.5 percent, to
$109.92, bringing the two-day decline to as much as 4.1 percent,
the most since Nov. 17.  The threat of further oil-price increases has become a
“key downside risk” for global growth, according to the IMF
report. Oil will rise 36 percent in 2011 to $107.16 a barrel,
based on the average prices of U.K. Brent, Dubai and West Texas
Intermediate crudes, the IMF said. The January forecast was for
oil at $89.50 a barrel this year.  Brent Falls  Brent oil for May settlement dropped as much as $2.01, or
1.6 percent, to $121.97 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London. Yesterday, the contract fell $2.67, or 2.1
percent, to end the session at $123.98.  The European benchmark traded at a premium of $14.06 a
barrel to U.S. futures yesterday. The difference between front-
month contracts in London and  New York  surged to a record $19.54
on Feb. 21 as unrest spread in the Middle East and North Africa
and stockpiles climbed at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for New York futures. The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  The U.S., the world’s largest economy and the biggest oil
consumer, will expand 2.8 percent this year, down from 2.9
percent last year and compared with a 3 percent growth rate for
2011 forecast in January, according to the IMF. The Conference
Board reported consumer confidence dropped to a three-month low
in March, and the jobless rate was 8.8 percent in Labor
Department statistics.  Japan,  China   Japanese growth was cut to 1.4 percent from 1.6 percent in
the previous forecast after the nation’s March 11 earthquake and
tsunami, the IMF said yesterday. Expansion in China, the world’s
second-largest oil-consuming country, was projected at 9.6
percent this year, unchanged from the January estimate.  The  African Union  said in a statement yesterday that Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi  agreed to “the immediate cessation of
all hostilities” and to negotiations “with the view to
adopting and implementing the political reforms necessary for
the elimination of the causes of the current crisis.”  Libyan rebels rejected the plan because it doesn’t meet
their demand that Qaddafi gives up power.  Some of the risk that prices will advance may be waning
amid “nascent signs of oil demand destruction” in the U.S. as
well as a record number of bets that prices will rise, elections
in Nigeria and the potential Libyan cease-fire, according to a
report by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts led by  Jeffrey Currie  in  London .  U.S. Inventories  U.S. gasoline supplies probably fell for an eighth week as
the longest stretch of declines since the summer of 2008 may
signal higher prices at the pump, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Inventories of the motor fuel decreased 1 million barrels,
or 0.5 percent, in the seven days ended April 8 from 216.7
million a week earlier, according to the median of 13 analyst
estimates before an Energy Department report tomorrow.  Crude oil stockpiles increased 1 million barrels, or 0.3
percent, in the seven days ended April 1 from 357.7 million a
week earlier, according to the survey. Supplies of distillate
fuel, a category that includes heating oil and diesel, probably
increased 500,000 barrels, or 0.3 percent, from 153.5 million
the prior week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  