-- 
Crude Oil Futures Decline From 30-Month High as IMF Cuts Growth Forecasts

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-04-11T20:13:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/oil-drops-in-new-york-on-report-that-imf-cut-u-s-japan-growth-forecasts.html
Oil fell from a 30-month high after
the  International Monetary Fund  cut its growth forecasts for the
U.S. and Japan, indicating high crude prices pose a risk to
global economic expansion.  Futures tumbled the most in almost four weeks as the IMF
said in its World Economic Outlook that the  U.S. economy  will
expand at a slower pace than in 2010 amid an unemployment rate
above 8 percent and a drop in consumer confidence. Oil also fell
as the  African Union  tried to negotiate a cease-fire in Libya.  The IMF “clearly engendered some downward price pressure
across a number of financial markets, including crude oil,”
said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics, an energy
advisory firm in Austin, Texas. “We’re looking at pretty solid
global growth, it’s just a deceleration of growth.”  Oil for May delivery fell $2.87, or 2.5 percent, to settle
at $109.92 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was
the biggest decline since March 15. Futures settled at $112.79 a
barrel on April 8, the highest close since Sept. 22, 2008.
Prices have risen 29 percent in the past year.  The threat of further oil-price increases has become a
“key downside risk” for global growth, according to the IMF
report. Oil will rise 36 percent in 2011 to $107.16 a barrel,
based on the average prices of U.K. Brent, Dubai and West Texas
Intermediate crudes, the IMF said. The January forecast was for
oil at $89.50 a barrel this year.  “The kind of oil price increases we’ve seen so far should
not derail the recovery,”  Olivier Blanchard , chief economist at
the IMF, said on Bloomberg Television’s “Last Word” with
 Andrea Catherwood .  U.S., Japan  The U.S., the world’s largest economy and the biggest oil
consumer, will expand 2.8 percent this year, down from 2.9
percent last year and a 3 percent growth rate for 2011 forecast
in January, according to the IMF. The Conference Board reported
 consumer confidence  dropped to a three-month low in March, and
the jobless rate was 8.8 percent in Labor Department statistics.  “High energy prices act as a massive tax on the economy
and blow out a lot of the work that’s been done to promote an
economic rebound,” said  Richard Ilczyszyn , a market strategist
at Lind-Waldock, a broker in Chicago.  Japanese growth was cut to 1.4 percent from 1.6 percent in
the previous forecast after the nation’s March 11 earthquake and
tsunami, the IMF said today in Washington. Expansion in China,
the world’s second-largest oil-consuming country, was projected
at 9.6 percent this year, unchanged from the January forecast.  The run-up in  oil prices  reduced global economic growth by
0.5 percent to 1 percent in the first quarter, analysts at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. led by  Lawrence Eagles  in  New York , said
today in a note to clients. The higher prices are “on course”
to have a similar impact on the second quarter, they said.  Brent Falls  Brent oil for May settlement dropped $2.67, or 2.1 percent,
to end the session at $123.98 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London . Futures earlier touched $127.02, the highest
price since Aug. 1, 2008.  The African Union said in a statement today that Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi  agreed to “the immediate cessation of
all hostilities” and to negotiations “with the view to
adopting and implementing the political reforms necessary for
the elimination of the causes of the current crisis.”  Libyan rebels rejected the plan because it doesn’t meet
their demand that Qaddafi give up power.  “The markets came off a bit, but it’s unclear as to
whether this agreement is going to happen,” said  Tom Bentz , a
broker with BNP Paribas Commodity Futures Inc. in New York.
“We’re going to need to see an end to some of the violence in
 Libya  before paying attention to other things.”  Demand Destruction  Some of the risk that prices will advance may be waning
amid “nascent signs of oil demand destruction” in the U.S. as
well as a record number of bets that prices will rise, elections
in Nigeria and the potential Libyan cease-fire, according to a
report by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts led by  Jeffrey Currie  in London.  Total products supplied averaged over four weeks, a measure
of fuel demand, fell for a fifth time in the period ended April
1, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Hedge funds and other large speculators raised net-long
positions by 4.5 percent in the seven days to April 5, according
to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments
of Traders report.  A presidential election next week in  Nigeria , Africa’s top
oil-producing country, pits President Goodluck Jonathan against
18 rivals.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 646,067
contracts as of 3:34 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 719,115
contracts April 8, 11 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.57 million contracts, the
highest level since March 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 