-- 
Crude Oil Declines After IMF Cuts U.S., Japan Growth Forecasts

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-04-11T12:34:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/oil-trades-near-30-month-high-in-new-york-amid-middle-east-unrest-dollar.html
Oil fell, extending its decline
from a 32-month high in  London , on speculation the  International
Monetary Fund  will cut its growth forecasts for the U.S. and 
Japan as commodity prices climb.  Brent crude slid as much as 1.6 percent in London,
falling from its highest price since August 2008, after a German
government official said the IMF will say in a report to be
published today that growth will be slower than predicted. The
 African Union  said Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  agreed to a
cease-fire plan, fueling speculation that exports from the
North African nation may recover.  “It is logical to suggest that current oil-price levels
might well slow demand increases this year,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodity research at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . Crude also fell “because of the peace talks in
Libya, and also because the recent price increases are
considered excessive. Current prices aren’t justified by the
supply-and-demand scenario.”  Brent oil for May settlement dropped as much as $1.96 to
$124.96 a barrel and was at $125.44 at 1:31 p.m. on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London. Futures earlier rose to
$127.02, the highest price since Aug. 1, 2008, after surging 6.7
percent last week. Oil for May delivery on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange fell as much as $1.26 to $111.53 a barrel.  Medium-term deficit reduction strategies in the U.S. and
Japan lack credibility, the IMF said in its World Economic
Outlook, the German official said on condition of anonymity
because the report hasn't yet been published.  Double-Dip Risk  While the likelihood of a double-dip economic slump in the
world economy has decreased, risks to growth mean the world
economy is more likely to disappoint than to beat expectations
and commodity price shocks, especially oil, have emerged as a
new risk to the global economy’s expansion, the German official
cited the IMF as saying. The IMF left its forecast for global
growth unchanged, he said, without giving time-frames.  The IMF estimates damage from the earthquake and tsunami
that struck  Japan  a month ago to amount to between 3 percent and
5 percent of the nation’s gross domestic product.  A 6.6-
magnitude struck the Tohoku region, southwest of Iwaki, in Japan
today, the latest aftershock to strike the country following the
March 11 disaster that killed more than 27,300 and caused
radiation leaks at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  The union of African states said in a statement today that
Qaddafi agreed to “the immediate cessation of all hostilities”
and to negotiations “with the view to adopting and implementing
the political reforms necessary for the elimination of the
causes of the current crisis.”  Brent Premium  South African President Jacob Zuma yesterday presented
Qaddafi with the cease-fire plan, which also calls for
cooperation in delivering humanitarian aid and protecting
foreign nationals in Libya. The AU delegation will meet today
with rebel leaders in Benghazi, their stronghold in the east.  Brent crude  traded at a premium of $13.70 a barrel to U.S.
futures. The difference between front-month contracts in London
and New York surged to a record $19.54 on Feb. 21 as unrest
spread in the Middle East and North Africa and stockpiles
climbed at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New York
futures. The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  An increase in  oil prices  and rising interest rates may
threaten economic growth, BP Plc’s chief economist said. The
basket price of crude for the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, representing the main export crudes of all
member countries, rose above $120 a barrel today for the first
time since Aug. 8, 2008.  “We know one thing from history, rising energy prices and
rising interest rates are toxic for economic growth,” Christof Ruehl told reporters today in Perth. “The combination is
troublesome.”  Hedge funds  raised bets on higher crude prices as continued
airstrikes in  Libya  raised concerns about production after the
country’s conflict ends.  Net-long positions in oil held by hedge funds, commodity
pools and commodity-trading advisers, increased by 13,231
futures and options combined, or 4.5 percent, to 305,297,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly
Commitments of Traders report. It was the third-highest level in
records dating back to 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 