-- 
Olam Says Tata Chemicals to Invest in Gabon Urea Project

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-04-11T11:47:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/olam-says-tata-chemicals-to-invest-in-gabon-urea-project-1-.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , building a
$1.3 billion fertilizer plant in the Republic of Gabon, said
 Tata Chemicals Ltd. (TTCH)  will become a partner in its biggest
investment project.  Tata Chemicals, the world’s second-largest soda ash
producer, will pay $290 million for a 25.1 percent stake in the
planned urea production facility, Singapore-based Olam said
today in a statement. The project may generate more than $300
million in earnings before interest tax, depreciation and
amortization a year, the statement said.  Attracting Mumbai-based Tata Chemicals, a fertilizer
producer in India and  Morocco , into the project comes as Olam
expands its African assets with palm-oil plantations, sugar
refineries and wheat milling to meet African and Asian demand
for food commodities.  Tata Chemicals will acquire the stake from Olam and the
Gabon government, which owns 20 percent of the project that’s
due to make 1.3 million metric tons of urea soil nutrient a
year, with a potential to double the output. The stakeholders
will fund 35 percent of the initial investment, with the rest
coming from debt financing, Olam said.  Olam will hold 62.9 percent in the urea project and the
Gabon government 12 percent after Tata Chemicals completes the
investment, according to the statement. The urea plant, which
will target clients in the U.S., Latin America and  Africa , may
acquire new partners to help with sales, Olam Chief Executive
Officer Sunny Verghese said today on a conference call.  “We’ll definitely bring in additional partners for
marketing,” Verghese said. “We’re unlikely to bring in other
equity partners.”  Olam agreed to invest 413 billion  CFA francs  ($890 million)
in a palm-oil project in the country, Gabon’s Ministry of
Agriculture said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  