-- 
Hong Kong Banks Given Funding Plan Deadline as Loans Surge

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-04-12T03:10:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/hong-kong-s-chan-says-loan-growth-may-curtail-banks-funding.html
Hong Kong  banks were given until
the end of the month to submit their funding strategies to the
de facto central bank amid concerns that “rapid” credit growth
will curb liquidity and reduce loan quality.  “It is clear that the same rapid pace of credit growth is
unsustainable,”  Norman Chan , chief executive officer of the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority, said in a  circular  yesterday. Bank
credit expanded at an annualized 26 percent in the first two
months of 2011 after climbing 29 percent last year, he said.  The HKMA, concerned about the risk of a “credit-fuelled
property bubble,” has tightened rules on mortgage lending three
times since October 2009 and will consider more measures if
needed, Chan said.  Mortgage rates  in Hong Kong, where housing
prices have surged to the highest since 1997, are at record lows
as the city’s currency peg to the dollar forces it to track U.S.
borrowing costs.  “The HKMA may ask local banks to be more prudent in
property lending,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at
KGI Asia Ltd. “That will be somewhat negative on local banks
because they will have less  mortgage loans , impacting their
profitability.”  BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd., the unit of Bank of China
Ltd., fell 2.6 percent to HK$24.65 at 10:34 a.m. in local
trading.  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11) , the Hong Kong-based lender backed
by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , fell 1.4 percent to HK$123.40.  Total loans extended by Hong Kong banks in February reached
HK$4.42 trillion ($568 billion), the highest level since 1981,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rising Loan Ratio  Banks need to review their business plans and funding
strategies for 2011 and submit them to the monetary authority by
April 30, HKMA’s Chan said.  The loan-to-deposit ratios for Hong Kong dollars rose to 81
percent in the first two months of this year, up from 78 percent
in 2010, Chan said. Property lending surged 19 percent last year,
while loans to non-bank Chinese companies jumped 47 percent, the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority said.  “We believe the Hong Kong banks are about to face a
significant liquidity squeeze, due to a confluence of cyclical,
structural and regulatory influences,” Sharnie Wong and Tom Quarmby, analysts at  Barclays Capital , said in a report
yesterday. Rising funding costs and loan rates will lead to a
contraction in mortgage credit, they said.  Funding Pressure  Hong Kong home prices have surged about 70 percent from the
beginning of 2009, according to Centaline Property Agency Ltd.
The base lending rate in the city has been kept at record-low of
0.5 percent since December 2008.  “Should the current trend continue for much longer, it
will inevitably lead to pressure on funding, liquidity and
concentration, as well as concerns about possible lowering of
credit underwriting standards,” Chan said.  In the latest round of tightening on mortgages, the
monetary authority in November raised the down-payments required
for homes that cost HK$8 million to HK$12 million to 40 percent
from 30 percent.  Lenders will face challenges in attracting new deposits as
competition rises and rates climb, Credit Suisse Group AG
forecast.  Bank deposits lagged behind lending growth in 2010, a trend
that’s continued this year, Franco Lam, an analyst at Credit
Suisse, wrote in a report dated yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  