-- 
Toyota May Lose 35,000 Units of North American Output

-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 
2011-04-11T15:35:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/toyota-may-lose-35-000-units-of-production-in-north-america.html
(Corrects percentage of parts from  North America  and
assembly location of Prius, Scion models in the sixth
paragraph.)  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
largest carmaker, may lose production of an estimated 35,000
vehicles at its 13 North American factories between March 11 and
April 25 due to a shortage of components from Japan.  The Toyota City, Japan-based company plans to suspend
production on April 15, 18, 21, 22 and 25 at its plants in the
U.S.,  Canada  and  Mexico ,  Shiori Hashimoto , a Toyota spokeswoman,
said today.  While the carmaker curtails operations in North America,
Toyota plans to reopen all its domestic plants on April 18.
Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co., Japan’s second- and third-
largest automakers, resumed production at major car assembly
plants in Japan today even as overseas output remains limited.  “Carmakers are carefully looking at the supply level of
components,” Takeshi Miyao, an analyst at consulting company
Carnorama in  Tokyo , said by phone today. It’s “highly likely”
that domestic output may be halted again because of further
supply disruptions, he said.  Toyota fell 2.4 percent to 3,260 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading in Tokyo. The stock has declined 11 percent since March
10, the day before the earthquake.  Toyota assembles almost 70 percent of the cars and light
trucks it sells in the U.S. at factories in North America, and
about 85 percent of the parts and materials for those models
come from North America. Its Scion models and Prius hybrids are
assembled only in Japan.  ‘Most Likely Continue’  “Output reduction in Japan and overseas will most likely
continue until September,”  Kohei Takahashi , an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo said. “Demand in the overseas
markets is greater than that in the domestic market, so
automakers will prioritize resuming output at their overseas
plants.”  Following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that damaged
parts factories in Japan, Toyota has also canceled overtime
shifts and weekend shifts at its plants in Europe and  Asia .  Toyota relies on North America for about 60 percent of its
operating profit, excluding exports, according to the automaker.  Tokyo-based Honda and Yokohama-based Nissan also have
reduced output at plants in North America.  In a report published April 8, Citigroup Inc. downgraded
Japan’s automobile sector to “sell,” citing the possibility of
production cuts lasting beyond April in  Japan  and overseas. The
report also said the industry has not fully addressed the impact
on earnings from possible electricity shortages stemming from
the damage to a nuclear-power plant in Fukushima.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  