-- 
Toyota Tells U.S. Dealers to Brace for Tighter Auto Supply

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-04-12T21:31:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/toyota-tells-u-s-dealers-to-brace-for-reduced-vehicle-supplies.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  told U.S.
dealers that assembly disruptions triggered by last month’s
record earthquake and tsunami in Japan may thin supplies of
vehicles into the third quarter.  The world’s largest automaker will build vehicles at
“significantly reduced levels,” Bob Carter, group vice
president of U.S. sales, said in a memorandum to dealers. While
Toyota, Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. reported mostly
minor damage at Japanese plants from the March 11 disaster, all
three cut output in Japan and abroad as they rebuild stockpiles
of parts from suppliers whose operations were disrupted.  Toyota, which estimates that  North America  generates about
60 percent of its operating profit, said last week it would
suspend production at auto, engine and parts plants in the
region for five days this month because of a shortage of Japan-
made components. The company plans to restart all plants in
 Japan  by April 18 at half of their capacity, it said last week.  “What we don’t know are vehicle production levels for May
through July,” Carter said in the memo. “The potential exists
that supply of new vehicles could be significantly impacted this
summer.”  Toyota probably has a sufficient supply of vehicles until
the middle of May, said  Jesse Toprak , an industry analyst at
TrueCar.com, a website based in Santa Monica, California, that
tracks auto market trends.  Prius Availability  “Beyond that, cars made solely in Japan and that get
exceptionally high mileage -- the Prius, for example -- will
have very limited availability,” Toprak said.  The company said today production at five European plants
will stop for several days late this month and in early May
because of parts shortages.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  may also halt production of some models in
 Asia  starting in the last week of April, because of parts
shortages caused by last month’s 9-magnitude earthquake, the
company said in a regulatory filing yesterday. The second-
largest U.S. automaker closed a factory in Kentucky and Belgium
last week due to earthquake-related parts shortages.  The possible shutdown of Asian plants wouldn’t have a
“material impact” on overall results, Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford said in the filing.  Toyota’s American depositary receipts, equal to two
ordinary shares, rose 70 cents to $77.20 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Ford rose 5 cents to
$14.91.  Resuming Output  Toyota may lose production of 35,000 cars and light trucks
at North American factories between March 11 and April 25
because of production cutbacks,  Shiori Hashimoto , a company
spokeswoman in  Tokyo , said yesterday.  Mike Goss , a spokesman for
Toyota’s manufacturing unit in Erlanger, Kentucky, declined to
elaborate on assembly plans beyond the April 8 announcement.  “Output reduction in Japan and overseas will most likely
continue until September,” said Kohei Takahashi, an analyst at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in Tokyo. “Demand in the overseas markets
is greater than that in the domestic market, so automakers will
prioritize resuming output at their overseas plants.”  A decision on whether North American production cuts need
to be extended will be made later this month, Carter said,
without elaborating.  Following the temporary shutdowns in  Europe , output at
plants there will be reduced for the rest of May, Toyota said in
an e-mailed statement today. Auto-assembly plants affected are
in Burnaston, England; Adapazari, Turkey; and Onnaing,  France ,
according to the statement. Engine plants in Jelcz-Laskowice,
Poland; and Deeside,  Wales , will also be shut.  Paint Colors  The company said it will continue to evaluate its supply
chain and make plans about production beyond May.  Toyota has inventory of more than 300,000 new vehicles for
sale in the U.S., more than after the U.S. government’s “cash
for clunkers” incentive program in 2009, Carter said in the
memo.  “We remain confident about April sales,” he said.  Along with reduced vehicle inventory, Toyota also expects
some paint colors to be in limited supply because of damage
sustained by a chemical maker in Japan, Carter said.  Toyota’s distribution department will work with the North
American engineering and production unit “to change exterior
colors on affected vehicles to match paint supply and keep the
production lines moving,” Carter said, without elaborating.  Citigroup Inc. analyst Noriyuki Matsushima downgraded
Japan’s automobile sector to “sell” last week, citing the
possibility that output cuts will last beyond April. The report
also said the industry hasn’t addressed the effect on earnings
from possible electricity shortages stemming from damage to a
nuclear-power plant in Fukushima, Japan.  Toyota’s U.S. sales unit is based in Torrance,  California .
The company’s memo to dealers was reported earlier by the Wall
Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  