-- 
Panetta, Mabus Said to Be Among Candidates to Replace Defense Chief Gates

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-04-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/panetta-mabus-said-to-be-among-candidates-to-replace-defense-chief-gates.html
Obama administration officials are
considering Central Intelligence Agency director Leon Panetta,
Democratic Senator Jack Reed of  Rhode Island  and Navy Secretary
Ray Mabus as possible replacements for Defense Secretary Robert Gates, according to an administration official.  Michele Flournoy, undersecretary of defense for policy, is
also among the candidates being looked at to succeed Gates, who
previously has said that he plans to retire sometime this year,
according to the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
to talk about the selection process.  President  Barack Obama  will be replacing his Pentagon chief
as the U.S. undergoes a transition in Afghanistan and winds down
operations in Iraq. Obama has set mid-2011 as the target for the
beginning of a withdrawal of U.S. forces from Afghanistan,
pending an assessment of security conditions.  Former U.S. Defense Secretary  William Cohen  said he
considers Panetta to be the leading candidate for the post,
given his background leading the spy agency and his experience
as a member of Congress from  California  from 1977 to 1993 and as
director of the  Office of Management and Budget  in President
 Bill Clinton ’s administration. He also served as Clinton’s chief
of staff.  “He understands budgets, and budgets are going to be
crucial as we move forward in terms of how you reconcile
national security requirements with our ability or willingness
to pay for them,” Cohen said.  Leading Candidate  Retired Army General Barry McCaffrey agreed that Panetta
was the leading candidate. Panetta understands Congress and has
experience on international affairs, McCaffrey said, calling him
one of the most “astute individuals I’ve ever worked with.”  “It’s very likely he’s at the top of the list,” said
McCaffrey, who was head of U.S. Southern Command from 1994 to
1996 and still consults with the military.  Panetta, 72, and Reed, 61, a graduate of the U.S. Military
Academy at West Point,  New York , and a member of the  Senate
Armed Services Committee , likely would be speedily confirmed  by
the Senate if nominated, Cohen said.  “There’s no question about Jack being quite popular with
his colleagues,” he said.  While Reed would have the confidence of both the military
and the White House, McCaffrey said, a drawback to nominating
him is the loss of a senior Democratic lawmaker versed in
defense and foreign policy.  ‘Concrete Ceiling’  Cohen said Flournoy, 50, would be a significant choice
because she would break “the concrete ceiling” by becoming the
first woman to hold the post.  Flournoy “has tremendous talent,” McCaffrey said. Still,
she doesn’t have broad international or national exposure and
“it would be surprising to me if the Obama team picked someone
without significant political weight,” he said.  Mabus, 62, a Democrat, served as U.S. ambassador to  Saudi
Arabia  during the Clinton administration and before that was
governor of Mississippi. Obama named him as Navy secretary in
March 2009 and later asked him to also oversee a restoration
plan for the Gulf Coast after the  oil spill  at  BP Plc (BP) ’s Macondo
well in the  Gulf of Mexico , the worst in U.S. history.  Panetta is “focused squarely on the agency’s mission,”
CIA spokesman Preston Golson said in an e-mail. “He isn’t
seeking any other job and hasn’t been asked by the president to
take on a different role.”  Reed, Mabus  Reed, who is in his third term and doesn’t face re-election
until 2014, isn’t ready to leave the Senate, his press
secretary, Chip Unruh, said. “Senator Reed loves his job and
has made it very clear he wants to continue representing the
people of Rhode Island in the  U.S. Senate ,” Unruh said in a
statement.  When asked during a news conference yesterday whether he is
a candidate for the defense secretary’s post, Mabus said he is
happy with his current position.  Flournoy was traveling yesterday and couldn’t immediately
be reached for comment.  President  George W. Bush  named Gates as defense chief in
2006, succeeding Donald Rumsfeld, as the U.S. and its allies
were struggling to quell sectarian violence in  Iraq . Gates was a
career CIA officer and served as the agency’s director from 1991
to 1993. Before being named by Bush to the Pentagon job, he was
president of  Texas  A&M University in  College Station , Texas.  In addition to naming a new defense secretary this year,
Obama also will be selecting a chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff. Admiral Mike Mullen, the current chairman, is scheduled
to retire on Oct. 1 after serving the maximum two consecutive
terms as chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  