-- 
Peru’s Stocks, Currency, Bonds Decline as Humala Faces Fujimori in Runoff

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-04-11T14:42:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/peru-s-stocks-bonds-fall-as-humala-faces-fujimori-in-presidential-runoff.html
Peru stocks and dollar-denominated
bonds fell as the race to be the next president narrowed to
Ollanta Humala, a supporter of greater state control over the
economy, and Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori, the daughter of a
former leader imprisoned for human-rights abuses.  Humala, who once led an army uprising and was an ally of
 Venezuela ’s  Hugo Chavez , won 29.3 percent of yesterday’s first-
round vote, after 72 percent of ballots were counted as of 10:39
a.m. New York time today. Fujimori, daughter of former president
 Alberto Fujimori , finished second with 22.9 percent.  The benchmark Lima General stock index fell 0.8 percent,
exceeding a drop of 0.5 percent for the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index. Peru’s dollar bonds due in 2025 dropped, sending yields
up 3 basis points to 5.43 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The sol sank 0.1 percent to 2.8005 per dollar.  “It’s difficult to get away from the thought that Humala
is more left-winged than anyone else in the election,” Jeremy Brewin, who helps oversee about $3 billion of emerging-market
assets at Aviva in  London , said in a telephone interview. “He
perhaps leans more towards re-negotiating the things that we got
used to. I am sure we are not the only people who are
structurally underweight  Peru .”  While a Fujimori presidency may revive the trauma of her
father’s decade-long rule, the losing candidates are likely to
rally behind before the June 5 runoff vote her to prevent Humala
from jeopardizing the fastest economic growth in Latin America
over the past five years, said  Michael Shifter , president of the
 Inter-American Dialogue .  Past Election  “She’s not a real recipe for stability, but given the
choice, there will be more resistance from the business
community to Humala,” said Shifter, who hosted Humala at an
event in  Washington  last year.  Humala, 48, won the first round of balloting in 2006 with
31 percent only to lose by five percentage points to President
 Alan Garcia  in a runoff. The Andean nation’s stocks, bonds and
currency tumbled over the past month as Humala surged from
fourth into first place in opinion polls.  Former Finance Minister Pedro Pablo Kuczynski came in third
yesterday with 21.1 percent support, while ex-President
 Alejandro Toledo  won 15.1 percent. .  Both Humala and Fujimori are polarizing figures in Peru,
though each has strong support in the Andean highlands where
 poverty  affects 77 percent of the population in some areas.  Military Uprising  Like Chavez, who as a paratrooper led a failed coup, Humala
in 2000 led 50 soldiers who seized and occupied for a week one
of Phoenix-based  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) ’s mines to protest
corruption that beset Fujimori’s government. His brother,
Antauro Humala, is serving a 25-year prison sentence for killing
four policemen during the takeover of the southern highland town
of Andahuaylas in 2005, in an attempt to force Toledo to resign.  While downplaying his ties to Chavez and muting the anti-
capitalist rhetoric used in 2006, Humala’s platform proposes
raising royalty fees on mining and gas production and drawing up
a new constitution. He’s also pledged to renegotiate a free-
trade agreement with the U.S. signed by Garcia.  Last night, at a victory rally in Lima, Humala vowed to
seek national unity as president, telling supporters that “Peru
wants change without shocks to bring about a big redistribution
of the country’s wealth.”  Fujimori´s Campaign  Fujimori, 35, surrounded herself by her father’s former
aides including running mate Jaime Yoshiyama, who served as his
Minister of the Presidency. The jailed Fujimori is credited by
supporters with laying the foundations of Peru’s economic boom
by slashing inflation from 7,650 percent to 3.5 percent.  He also closed Congress in 1992 and saw his grip on power
tumble after his intelligence chief, Vladimiro Montesinos, was
caught on videotape in 2000 bribing opposition lawmakers.  In 2009, after returning from exile, Fujimori was convicted
and sentenced to 25 years in prison for ordering a paramilitary
squad to kill a group of suspected Marxist rebel sympathizers.  Keiko Fujimori, the mother of two, was elected to Congress
in 2006 with more votes than any other candidate. She met her
American husband, Mark Villanella, while obtaining an MBA at
 Columbia University  in  New York .  Last night, she thanked her father and tried to reassure
Peruvians there’d be no return to authoritarian rule.  “We must to look the future, not to the past,” she said
as supporters chanted “Chino, Chino, Chino,” her father’s
popular nickname. “We’re going to work with absolute respect
for democracy, the rule of law, freedom of expression and the
press.”  Market Jitters  The cost of insuring Peru’s debt against default rose to
its highest since 2009 last week on concern a Humala presidency
would jeopardize $50 billion of mining, energy and
infrastructure investment that the government expects will fuel
6.5 percent growth over the next five years. Peru, the world’s
second-largest producer of copper, grew 8.8 percent last year.  Peru’s sol has declined 1.1 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
since March 20, when Humala began gaining in the polls, making
it the worst performer among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The  Lima  General Index has fallen 4.5
percent in dollar terms during the past month, the seventh-worst
performance among 90 primary stock indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  “The uncertainty ahead of the runoff will lead to some
further selloff of Peruvian assets,” said  Kevin Daly , who helps
manage $6 billion in emerging market funds at Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc in London.  Garcia’s Legacy  Garcia, 61, whose five-year mandate expires July 28, is
banned by Peru’s constitution from seeking re-election. During
his term, Peru created 2.5 million jobs and had its first-ever
investment-grade ratings from Moody’s Investors Service,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  Toledo, who had been the early frontrunner, saw support for
his candidacy fade since February. Still, he was the only
candidate favored to defeat Humala in a runoff scenario, by four
percentage points, according to an April 3 poll by Lima-based
researcher Ipsos Apoyo. The same poll found Humala and Fujimori
tied in a runoff scenario, with 42 percent support each.  Whoever is elected president may face gridlock in Congress.
Humala’s Nationalist Party won about 39 of the 130 seats in
Peru’s unicameral  legislature , compared with 31 for Fujimori’s
“2011 Force” and 23 for Toledo’s “Possible Peru” movement,
according to exit polls.  Mario Vargas Llosa, the Peruvian novelist who won the 2010
 Nobel Prize  for literature, said last month that it would be a
“catastrophe” if either Humala or Fujimori were elected.  “If the daughter of a dictator who’s serving a jail
sentence for being a criminal and a thief has a chance of being
president, I’ll be one of the Peruvians that will try to stop
her by all legal means,” said Vargas Llosa, who lost the
presidency to Fujimori in 1990 and was backing Toledo in this
race.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  