-- 
Pfizer’s Lyrica Tops Drugs Recommended for Diabetes Nerve Pain

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-04-11T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/pfizer-s-lyrica-tops-drugs-recommended-for-diabetes-nerve-pain.html
Doctors treating diabetes patients
for nerve-pain symptoms should consider  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lyrica,
the best-studied drug for the condition, among 13 underutilized
treatments, new guidelines suggest.  Lyrica, with sales topping $3 billion last year, was the
only medicine that ranked in the top tier of the recommendations
as having “very strong” research supporting it, according to
the first guidelines for the condition issued today by the
 American Academy  of Neurology. Twelve additional treatments were
“probably effective” and should be weighed by physicians to
meet the individual needs of each patient.  About 16 percent of people with diabetes develop pain and
numbness from nerve damage caused by high blood-sugar levels,
according to the report. About 40 percent of patients with nerve
pain aren’t being treated for it, said guideline author Vera
Bril, professor of medicine at the  University of Toronto .  “The whole field has so many options, it gets confusing,”
Bril said in a telephone interview from Honolulu, where the
guidelines were presented at the neurology academy’s annual
meeting. “You have to choose the treatment that’s most suitable
for the patient.”  Researchers combed through 2,234 research reports to find
the 79 most relevant studies, Bril said. One of the 13
recommended medicines with the greatest potential benefit is a
50-year-old depression treatment called amitriptyline. The drug
wasn’t included in the top level of recommendations because the
studies for it weren’t as comprehensive as more recent clinical
trials, Bril said.  The guidelines also identified nine treatments that aren’t
recommended to treat the nerve pain, including the epilepsy
drugs Trileptal, made by  Novartis AG (NOVN) , and Lamictal, by
GlaxoSmithKline, as well as magnetic-field treatment and low-
intensity laser therapy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in  New York  at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  