-- 
PIC Will Spend $6.8 Billion Across Africa as Growth Accelerates, CIO Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-04-11T16:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/pic-will-spend-6-8-billion-across-africa-as-growth-accelerates-cio-says.html
Public Investment Corp.,  Africa ’s
biggest fund manager, will invest about 45 billion rand ($6.8
billion) on the continent to benefit from one of the world’s
fastest-growing regions, Chief Investment Officer Daniel Matjila
said.  The  state-owned company , which manages the pensions of
government workers and has more than 1 trillion rand in assets,
will initially focus on markets based on size and liquidity,
Matjila said in an April 8 interview in  Pretoria , where the
company is based. Over the next five years, the PIC will
diversify into private equity and “development investments”
that include infrastructure, energy and agro-processing
projects, he said.  “As an investment opportunity, Africa is much better than
the developed world or our home market,” Matjila said. “The
African growth story is remarkable.”  The pace of economic growth in sub-Saharan Africa was more
than double that in  South Africa  over the past 10 years,
according to data from the  International Monetary Fund . Growth
in sub-Saharan Africa may accelerate to 5.5 percent this year
from 5 percent in 2010, according to the IMF. South Africa’s
economy is expected to expand 3.4 percent in 2011 from 2.8
percent a year earlier, it said.  PE Multiples  African stocks excluding those in South Africa trade at
12.4 times annual earnings, according to the MSCI Africa ex-
South Africa Index. That compares with 15.7 times profit on
South Africa’s FTSE/JSE Africa All Share gauge. Stocks in
 Nigeria , sub-Saharan Africa’s second-biggest market after South
Africa, trade at 7.3 times earnings, according to the  MSCI
Nigeria (MXNI)  Index that tracks the West African nation’s eight
biggest companies.  “We also want to contribute to the continent’s
development, the way we already have done at home,” Matjila
said. “We’ll start with the liquid ones around June and slowly
start to move into the illiquid ones like private equity and so
on slowly thereafter.”  The PIC is the biggest single shareholder on Johannesburg’s
stock exchange with a 9.1 percent stake in  ArcelorMittal South
Africa Ltd. (ACL) , a unit of the world’s largest steelmaker, 3.8
percent of  Anglo American Plc (AGL)  unit Kumba Iron Ltd., and 6.7
percent of Telkom South Africa Ltd., the continent’s largest
fixed-line phone operator, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The PIC will use South Africa-based asset managers who
“are doing a lot of nice work in Africa” to handle the
investments, Matjila said.  Kenya ’s benchmark NSE 20 Index has slipped 9.3 percent this
year, while Nigeria’s All Share Index has gained 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 