-- 
Private-Trade Rules, Stress Tests, HAMP Suit: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-04-11T12:27:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/private-trade-rules-stress-tests-bofa-hamp-suit-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is in the “very early stages” of reviewing rules on
trading of shares in closely held firms such as Facebook Inc.
and Twitter Inc., Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said April 8.  “What we have to balance at the end of this process is
capital formation and its importance to companies with investor
protection and the need for investors to have the information
that’s important for them to make informed business decisions,”
Schapiro told reporters at the Society of American Business
Editors and Writers conference in Dallas.  Among the rules under consideration is one that would
require companies with 500 or more shareholders to file public
financial statements, Schapiro said in an April 6 letter to U.S.
Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican. Issa, who
leads the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, asked
Schapiro last month to clarify the SEC’s position on the rules,
saying some of them might be hindering firms’ ability to grow.  Compliance Policy  U.K. Should Seek Some Division of Consumer Banking, CBI Says  The British government’s Independent Commission on Banking
should recommend banks separate parts of their consumer
divisions to enable lenders to operate in a financial crisis,
the U.K.’s biggest business lobby group said.  “Forcing banks to split different business lines into
separate subsidiaries could result in banks being broken up by
the back door,”  Confederation of British Industry  Director
General  John Cridland  said in a statement April 8. “But ring-
fencing critical operational services such as payment systems
could help ensure they can continue to operate in a crisis.”  The commission may recommend banks ring-fence their
consumer units and separate payment systems from other banking
operations, people familiar with the situation have said. The
panel will publish its interim recommendations on April 11.  Lagarde Presses EU for Position Limits on Commodities Trading  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  called for
stricter curbs on trading of commodity derivatives, including
position limits, following concerns that speculation is driving
up prices for raw materials.  “On commodities, we need to be as rigorous and demanding
as we are for other financial derivatives,” Lagarde told
reporters April 9 at a meeting of European Union finance
officials in Godollo, Hungary, where the issue was being
discussed. “We need mechanisms that produce good regulation.
That means position limits so that market makers can’t hold
positions that are too big.”  Lagarde is seeking a common position on the matter for EU
countries before a meeting of Group of 20 finance ministers in
 Washington  this week and of energy officials in Ankara on April
25. French President Nicolas Sarkozy has made regulation of
commodity trading one of his priorities during France’s
leadership of the G-20 in 2011. Sarkozy has stepped up his push
for tougher commodities-trading rules this year as surging food
and oil prices spur inflation, hurting purchasing power at a
time when wage growth has slowed or stagnated in France and
other European countries.  Compliance Action  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  to Pay $70 Million to Resolve Bribery Claims  Johnson & Johnson, the world’s second-biggest seller of
medical products, will pay $70 million to settle U.S. claims
that it bribed doctors in  Europe  and paid kickbacks in Iraq to
sell products and win contracts.  Subsidiaries of J&J since 1998 paid bribes to doctors and
hospital administrators in  Greece , Poland and Romania, the
Securities and Exchange Commission and Justice Department said
April 8 in filings at U.S. District Court in Washington. The
company also made illegal payments to Iraqi officials to win
contracts under the U.N. Oil for Food program, the SEC said.  The company agreed to resolve the claims without admitting
or denying the SEC’s allegations.  J&J Chairman and Chief Executive Officer William C. Weldon
said in a statement April 8 that the company is “deeply
disappointed by the unacceptable conduct that led to these
violations” and has made “significant changes since then to
improve our compliance efforts.”  For more, click here.  Stress Tests Toughened as 90 Banks to Face EU Capital Exams  European regulators will use a tougher measure of capital
on 90 lenders in this year’s stress tests following criticism
last year’s weren’t stringent enough.  Banks will be expected to maintain a Core Tier 1 capital
ratio of at least 5 percent under the stress-test scenarios, the
European Banking Authority said on its  website . Lenders won’t be
allowed to use some types of non-voting capital permitted by
German bank supervisors, known as silent participations, to
calculate the results, the EBA said.  Banks that fall below the EBA’s 5 percent level will have
to arrange capital injections with their national supervisors.  Last year’s tests, which allowed national regulators to use
their own capital definitions, were criticized by bank analysts
for not being tough enough. Lenders in the 27-nation region were
shown by regulators to need only 3.5 billion euros ($5 billion)
of new capital, about a 10th of the lowest analyst estimate.  At least five banks were added to the list of those
examined last year. Ireland’s Irish Life and Permanent Plc,
Norway’s DnB NOR Bank ASA, Nykredit Bank from Denmark,
Slovenia’s Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor and Oesterreichische
Volksbank AG from Austria will be tested for the first time. The
EBA is due to announce the results by the end of June.  For more, click here.  Lloyds Said to Hire McKinsey to Plan Future After Bank Report  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  hired McKinsey & Co. to advise on
possible asset sales and restructuring after the U.K.
government-appointed  Independent Commission on Banking  reports
this week, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The consulting firm is providing advice on ways the 41
percent state-owned bank might reorganize its operations as the
biggest mortgage lender and provider of checking accounts in the
U.K., the people said, declining to be identified because the
discussions are private. Other U.K. banks have held meetings
with  Treasury  ministers and officials in recent weeks, a third
person said.  The commission, led by John Vickers, a former chief
economist at the  Bank of England , will announce its interim
findings today after examining possible measures to improve
competition and make the financial system more resilient in the
event of a banking crisis. It will provide a final report to
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne in September.  For more, click here.  U.S. Chamber Says Dodd-Frank Swaps Deadlines Should Be Delayed  Congress should pass legislation extending the July
deadline under the Dodd-Frank Act for most new derivatives
regulations to be completed, 19 industry trade-associations told
lawmakers.  The associations included the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , the
 American Petroleum Institute  and the  Business Roundtable .  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  and
 Securities and Exchange Commission  need “sufficient time to
develop a transparent and orderly system that minimizes
unintended consequences,” the associations wrote April 8 to the
top Democrats and Republicans on the  Financial Services  and
 Agriculture  committees in the House and the  Agriculture  and
 Banking  committees in the Senate.  Gary Gensler , CFTC chairman, said the agency will miss some
of the mid-July deadlines. Gensler told House lawmakers on March
31 that he didn’t think Congress needs to push back the date
because of “latitude” that Congress has already given the
agency for phasing in rule implementation.  RBS Said to Delay FSA Report Into Lender’s Near-Collapse  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  is delaying the
publication of a Financial Services Authority report into the
lender’s near-collapse amid a dispute about its contents, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  The FSA, which planned to publish the report at the end of
this month, needs to get approval from all the people it
interviewed confidentially during the investigation because no
enforcement action was taken, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. Former
and current employees say the report contains factual
inaccuracies, the other person said, without giving details.  The FSA said in December it wouldn’t take action against
former RBS executives or publish the contents of its review of
RBS’s purchase of ABN Amro Holding NV, a decision that forced
the lender to seek the world’s biggest government bailout. The
FSA later reversed its decision after pressure from lawmakers.  Sky News reported on the delay April 8.  Lloyds Attacks Committee Plan to Expand Branch Sales  Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Britain’s biggest provider of
checking accounts, criticized plans by the  Independent
Commission on Banking  to make it divest more than the 600
branches it’s selling to meet European state aid rules.  The plan “would not be in the interest of our customers,”
Lloyds said in a statement today. Lloyds said in the statement
that the option appears to be based on “limited evidence” and
“may paradoxically potentially delay a new competitor coming
into the U.K. market.”  The commission today recommended that Lloyds should sell
“substantially” more branches to bolster competition in the
British banking industry, without specifying how many.  Lloyds became the U.K.’s biggest provider of checking
accounts and mortgages with its takeover of HBOS Plc during the
2008 financial crisis. The bank is seeking a buyer for outlets
to comply with a 2009 European Union ruling after it received
more than 20 billion pounds ($32.7 billion) in government aid.  “Although Lloyds is required to divest a package of assets
and liabilities to satisfy conditions for state aid approval set
by the European Commission, this divestiture will have a limited
effect on competition unless it is substantially enhanced,” the
commission said in today’s report.  For more, click here.  Portugal Is Pressed for Sustainable Cuts to End Euro Crisis  Europe’s wealthy countries looked to Portugal to resolve
the year-old euro debt crisis by coming up with “sustainable”
deficit cuts to pave the way to an 80 billion-euro ($116
billion) bailout.  Confident that Portugal will be the last aid seeker, German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  pushed the feuding political
parties in Lisbon to unite behind an austerity package in the
thick of an election campaign.  “It’s up to Portugal to decide,” Schaeuble told reporters
April 9 at a meeting of European finance officials in Godollo,
Hungary. Portugal “has to deliver sustainable measures for
reducing the deficit.”  Finance ministers agreed yesterday to send  European
Commission ,  European Central Bank  and International Monetary
Fund officials to Lisbon this week to start negotiations over
the package, with the goal of wrapping it up on May 16, three
weeks before Portugal’s June 5 election.  In a sign of how Portugal has surrendered control of its
fate, the European Union will intrude on the political campaign
by trying to broker a cross-party budget-cutting deal between
Socrates and the opposition party led by  Pedro Passos Coelho .  Anibal Cavaco Silva, the largely ceremonial Portuguese
president, said he will play a role in forging an initial accord
on an economic overhaul that will be followed up by the future
government.  For more, click here.  Courts  Bank of America Asks Judge to Throw Out Loan-Modification Case  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , accused in a lawsuit of violating
obligations to homeowners seeking to modify mortgage loans and
avoid foreclosure, asked a federal judge to throw the case out.  Borrowers say the bank “systematically failed” to comply
with a U.S. government program aimed at stemming foreclosures
and violated contracts for modifying loans, according to a
complaint in federal court in Boston that consolidates cases
from across the country.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, asked
U.S. District Judge Rya Zobel at a hearing April 7 to dismiss
the complaint. The bank argued that not all homeowners are
eligible for inclusion in the government’s Home Affordable
Modification Program, or HAMP, and that it isn’t required to
permanently modify all loans that are eligible.  The complaint consolidates 26 lawsuits from around the
country with another 10 to be added, Gary Klein, a lawyer for
the plaintiffs, said in an interview. If Zobel dismisses the
complaint, all the lawsuits would be thrown out, Klein said
after the hearing.  Bank of America isn’t complying with obligations for
evaluating borrowers and modifying loans, the plaintiffs said in
court papers. Citing unidentified former employees as for some
of its allegations, the complaint accuses the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based bank of breaching HAMP requirements, misleading
homeowners and putting processes in place to avoid modifying
loans because it has financial incentives to do so.  The case is In re Bank of America Home Affordable
Modification Program (HAMP) Contract Litigation, 10-md-02193,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more, click here.  U.K. Management Consultant Denies Insider-Trading Charges  Rupinder Sidhu, a management consultant, pleaded not guilty
to 23 counts of insider trading and one count of money
laundering at a London court.  Sidhu is charged with dealing in securities of companies
such as  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) ,  Swatch Group AG (UHR) ,  Reed Elsevier
Plc (REL)  and  Michael Page International Plc (MPI) , while knowing London
hedge fund AKO Capital LLP planned transactions in the same
shares, according to the indictment. The trades took place in
2008 and 2009.  Judge Nicholas Loraine-Smith said the trial should start on
Nov. 28. It’s scheduled to last as long as three weeks. The
U.K’s Financial Services Authority  brought the case .  Interviews  Hilton Says U.K. Report Encourages Banks to Act Riskier  Andrew Hilton, director of the  Centre for the Study of
Financial Innovation , talked about the findings from the U.K.’s
 Independent Commission on Banking . He commented on capital,
ring-fencing, and bank failures, among other topics.  He spoke with Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television’s “On
The Move.”  For the video, click here.  G-20 Needs Common Rules for Systemic Banks, EU’s Rehn Says  The European Union is pushing for a common international
approach to so-called systemically important banks whose
collapse could undermine financial stability.  The Group of 20 countries needs a “consistent framework”
for such large lenders, EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner Olli Rehn said April 9 after a meeting of European
finance officials in Godollo, Hungary. ”We must ensure a level
playing field.”  The G-20 said in November that lenders that threaten the
wider financial system in case of collapse should face tougher
capital rules to help them to cover any losses. The requirements
would go beyond global standards, known as Basel III, that were
agreed on by governments and regulators last year and apply to
all internationally active banks.  Past commitments at the G-20 “have to be implemented,”
Rehn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 