-- 
Raiffeisen Expects ‘Shock’ 30% Devaluation of Belarus Ruble

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-04-11T16:47:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/raiffeisen-expects-shock-30-devaluation-of-belarus-ruble-1-.html
Belarus may conduct a “shock”
devaluation of its currency, weakening the ruble by 30 percent,
according to  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , owner of the east
European nation’s fifth-biggest lender.  Local banks in Belarus can now sell foreign currencies at a
rate that deviates as much as 10 percent from the official rate,
compared with 2 percent previously, after the central bank
relaxed its controls on the ruble on March 30.  Including that depreciation, Vienna-based Raiffeisen
expects a devaluation of 30 percent, Chief Executive Officer
Herbert Stepic told analysts today at a meeting in London.  Belarus’s gold and foreign-currency reserves slipped 6.5
percent in March as the government tried to close a current-
account gap that was equivalent to 15.6 percent of gross
domestic product last year. The trade deficit more than
quadrupled to almost $2 billion in the first two months of the
year from $468 million in the same period a year earlier,
according to data from the National Committee for Statistics.  Raiffeisen owns 88 percent of Priorbank, the country’s
fifth-biggest lender by assets. With units in 16 former
communist countries, Raiffeisen ranks behind Milan-based
UniCredit SpA and Vienna-based Erste Group Bank AG in terms of
assets in eastern  Europe .  “With the measures we have taken we don’t see significant
risk for our engagement” in Belarus, Stepic said, adding that
Priorbank has about 1.2 billion euros ($1.7 billion) in assets.  Russia  ‘Moving Fast’  Russia may increase its influence over the former Soviet
republic by “moving fast” and “taking over valuable assets,”
Stepic said. Belarus is seeking a $3 billion bailout loan from
Russia and former Soviet partners.  The immediate risks in Belarus “include an uncontrolled
devaluation of the Belarusian currency or disruptions in
economic output due to shortfalls in imported inputs,”
 Alexander Morozov , chief economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in
Moscow, wrote today in an e-mailed note. “Significant external
imbalances and the low level of international reserves pose a
risk for sovereign credit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Jordan in  London  at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in London at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  