-- 
Rajaratnam Gets His Turn to Mount Defense at Insider Trial

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-12T00:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/rajaratnam-must-refute-14-counts-as-defense-begins-in-insider-trading-case.html
Hedge fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam ,
after four weeks of prosecution evidence at his insider-trading
trial, today gets his chance to refute a case built on wiretaps,
e-mails and the testimony of former friends and colleagues.  The government rested last week after seeking to prove to a
jury in  Manhattan  federal court that the Galleon Group LLC co-
founder made $63.8 million from illegal tips on technology and
bank stocks including Intel Corp. and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Jurors heard more than 40 recordings of wiretapped
conversations in the biggest investigation ever to target
insider trading by  hedge funds . Defense attorney  John Dowd  and
his team said they will call at least five witnesses to tell
Rajaratnam’s side of the story. Jury deliberations may begin by
the end of the week, the judge said.  “Raj really needs to start trying to establish that he
made his trading decisions based on the mosaic of information
available to him and not just on the information he got from
insiders,” said Stuart Slotnick, a criminal defense lawyer with
Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney PC in  New York .  Terence Lynam, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, said the defense
wants to call Rick Schutte, Galleon’s former chief operating
officer, and former Galleon analyst Stephen Granoff. The defense
hasn’t said whether Rajaratnam will take the witness stand.  The hedge fund manager’s lawyers also plan to call as an
expert witness Gregg Jarrell, the top economist for the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission from 1984 to 1987. Jarrell is
expected to testify about hedge fund trading and the effect of
market events on share prices.  Sophisticated Investors  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell, who presides over the
trial, ruled April 8 that Jarrell may testify about the
practices of sophisticated investors and how confidential data
can leak out of companies and into the public marketplace.  Rajaratnam’s team has argued that the information he
received in the wiretapped calls was already public in press
articles and analyst reports. They may seek to prove that the
information wasn’t important to Rajaratnam’s trading decisions.  The wiretap recordings may be the biggest obstacle the 53-
year-old Rajaratnam faces in avoiding a conviction that could
land him prison for 20 years, one securities lawyer said.  “It’s going to take an awful lot of explaining to make
that go away,” said Mark Rifkin, a partner with the law firm
Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP in New York who
represents investors in  securities-fraud  lawsuits.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, and  Jim McCarthy , a spokesman for Rajaratnam,
declined to comment on the defense case.  In arguments last week seeking to throw out the charges,
Lynam gave a preview of the arguments defense lawyers may make.  Rajaratnam faces five counts of conspiracy and nine counts
of securities fraud relating to  insider trading . He has pleaded
not guilty and denied any wrongdoing. The conspiracy counts each
carry a maximum five-year prison sentence and the fraud counts
each carry a maximum 20-year term. Below is a summary of each
count, the evidence and some of the arguments defense lawyers
have made during the trial.  Count 1 (Conspiracy)  Charge: Rajaratnam conspired with Galleon colleagues to use
inside tips to trade in stocks including ATI Technologies Inc.,
Vishay Intertechnology Inc. and Integrated Circuit Systems Inc.  Evidence: Ex-Galleon trader  Adam Smith , who pleaded guilty,
testified that he passed tips from sources including Morgan
Stanley investment banker Kamal Ahmed to Rajaratnam. Prosecutors
played wiretapped recordings of Rajaratnam getting what they
alleged were inside tips from then-Goldman Sachs board member
 Rajat Gupta , as well as sources including Krish Panu, a director
of PeopleSupport Inc. Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky
claimed the wiretaps show Rajaratnam knew the information was
secret and agreed to trade on it. Panu and Gupta haven’t been
charged with any criminal wrongdoing. Gupta is the subject of an
administrative action by the SEC related to insider trading.  Defense: Lynam argued there’s insufficient evidence that
Rajaratnam knew Smith’s source was leaking inside data or that
his client knowingly joined in a conspiracy, and that the
evidence of tips from the others is speculative.  Count 2 (Conspiracy)  Charge: Rajaratnam conspired with Roomy Khan, a former  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  executive and stock trader who has pleaded guilty, to use
inside information Khan got from other sources about Google
Inc., Hilton Hotels Corp., and Polycom Inc.  Evidence: The alleged leakers telephoned one another immediately
after getting confidential data and then made trades,
prosecutors said. The government presented evidence including an
instant message between Rajaratnam and Khan.  Defense: Lynam said that because prosecutors didn’t call Khan or
her alleged sources as witnesses, and didn’t tell jurors the
content of the alleged tips, the government is asking jurors to
speculate that inside information was passed along a chain to
Rajaratnam.  Count 3 (Conspiracy)  Charge: Rajaratnam conspired with Rajiv Goel, a former friend
who leaked information about Intel and  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   Evidence: Goel, who has pleaded guilty, testified for the
prosecution. “Mr. Goel’s testimony again alone is enough” to
convict, Brodsky said. Prosecutors presented evidence that
Rajaratnam traded in Goel’s personal account while Goel was
passing him tips about  Santa Clara , California-based chipmaker
Intel. Jurors heard recordings of calls between the men.  Defense: Rajaratnam’s lawyers claim there’s no evidence Goel
reached an illegal agreement with Rajaratnam or that the hedge
fund manager knew the information from Goel was confidential.  Count 4 (Conspiracy)  Charge: Rajaratnam conspired with  Anil Kumar , a former friend
and now ex-partner at McKinsey & Co., to illegally trade on tips
from McKinsey clients including EBay Inc. and  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD)   Evidence: Kumar, who pleaded guilty, testified for the
prosecution. Jurors heard recorded conversations between him and
Rajaratnam. Prosecutors said Kumar’s testimony that Rajaratnam
demanded “inside the boardroom” leaks, and Rajaratnam’s
alleged secret payments to Kumar’s overseas accounts, establish
a conspiracy.  Defense: The defense said the information that Kumar allegedly
leaked was already public, citing press reports.  Count 5 (Conspiracy)  Charge: Rajaratnam conspired with Danielle Chiesi, a trader at
New Castle Funds, about Sunnyvale, California-based
semiconductor products-maker AMD and  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)   Evidence: Prosecutors played recordings of her conversations
with Rajaratnam.  Defense: Rajaratnam’s team argued there’s no evidence supporting
what Chiesi was told by her sources and that prosecutors can’t
establish a conspiracy. Prosecutors didn’t call Chiesi, who
pleaded guilty, as a witness.  Count 6, 7 (Securities Fraud)  Charge: Rajaratnam committed insider trading in Kirkland,
Washington-based Clearwire, a wireless broadband provider, on
March 24 and March 25, 2008, after he got a tip from Goel that
Intel would enter a joint-venture with the company.  Evidence: Brodsky alleged recorded calls of Goel providing
details of the deal showed the data was confidential and that
Rajaratnam repaid Goel by trading in his account.  Defense: The defense said there’s no proof that Rajaratnam gave
a benefit to Goel in return for the information, that news of a
pending deal was already public and that the alleged leak wasn’t
an important part of Rajaratnam’s trading decision.  Counts 8, 9, 10 (Securities Fraud)  Charge: Rajaratnam allegedly engaged in insider trading in
Akamai on July 25, July 29 and July 30, 2008, after he got a tip
from Chiesi about the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company’s
plan to reduce its earnings guidance.  Evidence: Prosecutors claim there was no definitive public
information that Akamai would lower its earnings guidance.
Chiesi’s Akamai source tells her in a wiretapped conversation
that he would make a “gift” of information. Brodsky said that
the timing and size of Rajaratnam’s trades following the alleged
tip proves the case.  Defense: The defense said there were published analyst reports
showing that Akamai, a provider of services to speed Internet
content delivery, would reduce its earnings.  Counts 11, 12 (Securities Fraud)  Charge: Rajaratnam is accused of insider trading in Los Angeles-
based PeopleSupport on July 28 and Oct. 7, 2008 after getting a
tip from Krish Panu, a member of the company’s board, that it
would be acquired.  Evidence: Prosecutors said Rajaratnam violated insider trading
laws by trading in Goel’s account after learning of the
company’s earnings in May 2008, pointing to wiretapped calls.
They say Goel’s testimony shows the hedge fund manager had been
tipped before July 28 about the PeopleSupport takeover.  Defense: The defense claims there’s no evidence that Rajaratnam
got the tip before trading in PeopleSupport on July 28, and the
Oct. 7 tip came after a company press release. There’s no
evidence Panu breached a legal duty to PeopleSupport or obtained
a benefit by disclosing the information, the defense said.  Count 13 (Securities Fraud)  Charge: Rajaratnam is accused of insider trading in ATI
Technologies from March to July 2006, after getting tips from
Smith and Kumar that ATI would be acquired.  Evidence: Prosecutors said Kumar made clear in his testimony
that he was leaking secret information about a pending AMD-ATI
deal and was being paid for it.  Defense: The defense said prosecutors failed to show that Smith,
who allegedly got his information from Ahmed, was in a
conspiracy with the  Morgan Stanley (MS)  banker, or that Rajaratnam
paid Kumar for his information. Galleon research was the basis
of the trade, they said.  Count 14 (Securities Fraud)  Charge: Rajaratnam is accused of insider trading in Intel in
April 2007 after getting tipped by Goel about profit margins.  Evidence: Prosecutors argued that Rajaratnam knew Goel couldn’t
disclose such non-public data regardless of where it came from.  Defense: The defense claims that, because Goel got the
information from Intel’s investor relations department,
Rajaratnam had no reason to think it was secret.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  