-- 
Rajaratnam Was ‘Amazingly Educated’ on Stocks, Galleon Research Chief Says

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/rajaratnam-was-amazingly-educated-ex-galleon-research-chief-testifies.html
Raj Rajaratnam’s defense to  insider
trading  charges opened yesterday with witnesses who contradicted
key government testimony and told the jury how extensive Galleon
Group LLC’s research operation was.  Richard “Rick” Schutte, the former president and chief of
research at Galleon, testified that Rajaratnam, who co-founded
the hedge fund, reviewed dozens of analyst reports each week and
was “amazingly educated” about stocks, research and investment
strategies.  Schutte said Galleon employed 35 analysts at its peak in
early 2008 and each was expected to be expert in as many as 15
companies. The analysts had to file weekly reports to
Rajaratnam, he said. Every morning, Rajaratnam led a meeting of
dozens of Galleon employees to review new “data points” --
news accounts, regulatory filings and research -- that might
influence stock prices, he said.  “He was the most prepared of any of us,” Schutte said of
Rajaratnam yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court. “He’s
amazingly educated on the issues at hand.”  The testimony is designed to support Rajaratnam’s claim
that his trades were based on Galleon research and not on inside
information, as prosecutors allege. Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial
in the largest crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S.
history. The Sri Lankan-born money manager is accused of trading
on tips leaked by corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders.  Defense lawyers said in court last week that Rajaratnam
would present at least five witnesses and that his case may be
completed by today. They didn’t say whether Rajaratnam would
testify.  ‘Information Sharing’  Schutte testified that Galleon analysts and portfolio
managers engaged in a “continuous process of information
sharing” as part of its strategy of “arbitraging consensus,”
or identifying where Wall Street’s consensus was wrong. Galleon
had a “very disciplined, very methodical” process of analyzing
research, he said.  “There’s all sorts of information,” he said.  Analysts arrived at work at 7 a.m. and had to be prepared
to field questions about the companies they covered at the 8:30
a.m. meeting that Rajaratnam led, Schutte said. Employees who
showed up late were fined $25, he said. Rajaratnam then
retreated to his office where he fielded phone calls, reviewed
data on his six computer screens and met with analysts, he said.  ‘Event-Driven Investing’  Schutte, who joined Galleon in 2004 and became president in
October 2009, shortly before Rajaratnam’s arrest on Oct. 16,
2009, said the company would practice “event-driven
investing,” increasing the size of a position in anticipation
of some event. He said he sometimes joined Rajaratnam for
meetings with corporate executives.  “Did you ever see him ask for inside information?”
defense attorney Michael Starr asked.  “No,” Schutte said.  Starr showed jurors news articles, analyst reports and
internal Galleon research data relating to  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD)  and  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) , two companies on
whose stocks Rajaratnam is accused of getting illegal tips.  Rajaratnam, according to prosecutors, got tips on AMD’s
planned acquisition of ATI Technologies Inc. in 2006 and on
plans that AMD, a Sunnyvale, California-based maker of
microprocessors for personal computers, would spin off part of
the company in 2008. Rajaratnam also received illegal
information that Akamai, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts ,
would lower its earnings forecasts in 2008, prosecutors said.  Akamai  Starr showed jurors reports by a Galleon analyst who
covered Akamai showing that she continued to see “more data
points of softness in their business” in the weeks before the
company reported earnings that were lower than expected.  At about the same time that the analyst was writing the
reports, Rajaratnam was taking a bearish position on the stock,
Starr said.  Earlier, the defense called two witnesses to challenge the
testimony of former Galleon portfolio manager  Adam Smith , who
pleaded guilty to insider trading and is testifying for
prosecutors. Smith told jurors that he shared inside tips with
Rajaratnam.  John Pernell, who runs the Polaris Prime Technology Fund,
said he met Smith for breakfast about a week after Smith pleaded
guilty in January. According to Pernell, Smith denied using
inside information to trade on several of the stocks at issue,
contrary to what he said at his guilty plea.  Lawyer Testifies  On cross-examination, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter asked Pernell whether he had been communicating with
Rajaratnam’s lawyers at the time he met with Smith at the
Cornell Club in Manhattan. Pernell, who testified that Smith was
a “dear friend” who managed the Polaris fund, said he had
been.  “Did you tell him you had written a memo to Mr. Dowd?”
Streeter asked, referring to  John Dowd , one of Rajaratnam’s
lawyers.  “No,” Pernell said.  Also testifying for Rajaratnam was Robert Hotz, a lawyer at
Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP who represented Rajaratnam
until August. Hotz said Smith had denied trading on inside
information when Smith was interviewed by defense lawyers in
February and July 2010.  “His representation was he was not aware of any insider
trading at Galleon,” Hotz said.  “Waiting for Superman”  The defense plans to call as witnesses Gregg Jarrell, the
top economist for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
from 1984 to 1987, and Galleon analyst Stephen Granoff. Jarrell
will serve as an expert witness for the defense.  Rajaratnam’s next witness will be Geoffrey Canada, the
creator of the Harlem Children’s Zone, a  New York  City nonprofit
group. Canada was featured last year in the documentary,
“Waiting for Superman,” about  charter schools . The defense
wants him to testify about Rajaratnam’s good character and
generosity.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  