-- 
Rand Depreciation Bet Draws Sanlam Investment Management to Global Stocks

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-12T08:45:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/rand-depreciation-bet-draws-sanlam-investment-to-global-stocks.html
Sanlam Investment Management,  South
Africa ’s second-biggest private money manager, is raising
holdings of global equities as it bets the rand may weaken,
making stocks valued in other currencies more attractive.  Sanlam is reducing investments in South African equities
relative to bonds and adding foreign stocks as it sees the
rand’s fair value at 8.20 per dollar compared with 6.6968 now,
according to Chief Investment Officer Gerhard Cruywagen and
Arthur Kamp, an economist at the Cape Town-based  fund manager .
Among South African stocks, Sanlam favors  Anglo American Plc (AGL) ,
which earns most of its revenue in dollars.  “Where we have mandates that allow offshore investments,
we would have overweight positions in offshore,” Cruywagen, who
helps oversee 330 billion rand ($49.6 billion) at Sanlam, said
in an April 8 interview. “We like global equities and
specifically  Europe .”  The South African currency depreciated 0.5 percent to
6.6969 per dollar at 10:15 a.m. in Johannesburg. The rand has
rallied 8.7 percent against the dollar in the past two months,
the second-best performer among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies monitored by Bloomberg after Romania’s leu. The
rand’s advance, fueled by rising commodity prices and demand
from investors seeking higher-yielding assets, may be overdone,
Kamp said. South Africa’s benchmark interest rate of 5.5 percent
compares with 0.25 percent in the U.S. and 0.1 percent in  Japan .  “We would think that the rand is in overvalued
territory,” Kamp said.  ‘No Cheap Stocks’  A two-year, 78 percent rally in the country’s benchmark
 stock index  has left shares fairly priced at 15.7 times
earnings, said Cruywagen. That compares with 13.8 times reported
earnings on the Stoxx Europe 600 index. Sanlam has been adding
European equities since 2008, and is also investing in emerging
markets including  India , he said.  “We don’t really find cheap stocks” in South  Africa ,
given the index’s gains, he said. The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share
Index snapped two days of gains, declining 1.3 percent to
32,384.16.  Sanlam Investment’s views contrast with those of
Johannesburg-based RMB Asset Management, the country’s third-
biggest private money manager. RMB expects banks to lead a rally
in South African stocks that may last 18 months as record-low
U.S. interest rates spur emerging-market gains, Wayne McCurrie,
who helps oversee 110 billion rand at the Johannesburg-based
company, said on March 30.  Rand-Hedge Qualities  Several of Sanlam Investment’s favored stocks trading on
the South African exchange earn a large proportion of their
income from overseas. Among these are Anglo American, the
diversified mining company that makes up 11 percent of the
benchmark stock index and earns 49 percent of its income outside
South Africa,  Barloworld Ltd. (BAW) , the world’s largest forklift
dealer, and British American Tobacco Plc, Europe’s biggest
cigarette maker. Anglo American shares fell for the first day in
three, losing 3.2 percent to 353.75 rand.  Though Sanlam doesn’t buy stocks purely for their rand-
hedge qualities, its valuation of companies takes the effect of
the rand’s exchange rate on revenue into account, Cruywagen
said. Global equities are a defensive position against rand
weakness, he said.  The money manager prefers diversified mining companies over
pure gold miners, which it considers relatively expensive on a
price-earnings basis.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the continent’s
biggest gold producer, trades 12.42 times estimated earnings,
compared with 9.1 for Anglo American.  Bond Buys  Sanlam is also avoiding shares of Cape Town-based  Shoprite
Holdings Ltd. (SHP) , Africa’s largest retailer, and Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA, the world’s largest jewelry maker based in Zug,
 Switzerland , both of which it considers expensive relative to
their peers. Shoprite trades at 20.3 times estimated earnings,
and Richemont at 20.4.  The fund manager is buying 15-year bonds as the securities
are cheap relative to inflation expectations and shorter-
maturity debt, said Chris Hamman, who oversees about 115 billion
rand of fixed-interest investments at Sanlam Investment.  The extra yield investors pay to hold the 15-year notes,
known as the R186, over five-year debt is 97 basis points, or
0.97 percentage point. The spread has narrowed from 118 basis
points five weeks ago, but is still more than the 63 basis
points it reached on Sept. 15.  Inflation Outlook  “We like the longer end of the curve,” Hamman said. “The
curve is quite steep” and the R186 in particular “is still
really cheap” given the inflation outlook, he added.  Inflation will probably average 4.7 percent in 2011, and
reach 5.7 percent in 2012, the  Reserve Bank  said on March 24.
Inflation was unchanged at 3.7 percent in February. Long-term
bond yields are discounting inflation of more than 6 percent,
Hamman said.  Sanlam Investment is a unit of Cape Town-based  Sanlam Ltd. (SLM) ,
the largest South Africa-based life insurer. Old Mutual
Investment Management, a unit of  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , is South
Africa’s largest private money manager.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 