-- 
Reebok Aims to Get Fitter in Bid to Match Adidas Profitability

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-04-11T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/reebok-aims-to-match-profitability-of-owner-adidas-with-100-running-shoes.html
Adidas AG (ADS) ’s Reebok brand aims to
get profitability closer to the level of its parent company in
the next five years as it adds toning shoes and retro sneakers
to capitalize on growth in personal-fitness spending.  Products such as $100 RealFlex running shoes will help
margins at the sporting-goods maker move closer to its German
owner, which it has lagged behind since being acquired in 2006,
Reebok President Uli Becker said in an interview. The brand’s
gross margin widened by 4 percentage points to 35.9 percent last
year, compared with 47.8 percent for the Adidas group.  “We have very, very ambitious goals,” Becker said. “Five
years is a time period in which a lot can happen.”  Reebok  will
have “positive news” on margins in 2011, he said.  Reebok is counting on products such as $100 EasyTone
sneakers and $75  ZigTech Lite jackets  to continue a revival. The
brand’s revenue increased 12 percent in 2010, ending three years
of decline that followed its acquisition. Sales of toning shoes,
designed to better define the wearer’s legs and buttocks, may
triple to $4.6 billion industrywide in the next few years,
according to data published last year by Wedbush Securities Inc.  Reebok introduced EasyTone trainers in 2009. The shoe,
which has two balance pods under the sole to force the muscles
to adapt and develop tone, was followed last year by ZigTech
conditioning trainers. RealFlex sneakers are aimed at
strengthening feet, promoting a more natural motion.  ‘Long-Term Investment’  “We are at the beginning of the turnaround,” Becker said.
“It is true that Adidas’s investment in Reebok was a burden in
the first years. It has been seen by Adidas from the beginning
as a long-term investment.” Reebok’s market share declined
after the brand stopped selling discount lines in supermarkets.  Sales and margins benefited last year from the addition of
 EasyTone and ZigTech trainers , which are aimed at easing strain
on runners’ leg muscles. A third-generation of shoes known as
RealFlex go on sale in the U.S. this month and will start
selling globally from next year, Becker said.  The executive said he’s “very satisfied” with orders for
the latest running shoes. Reebok expects to beat last year’s
sales figure of about 10 million fitness trainers, he said.
Clothing will be introduced under the RealFlex label next year.  Toning-shoe sales in the U.S. totalled $17 million in 2008
and increased more than eightfold to $145 million in 2009 when
Reebok and Skechers U.S.A. Inc. introduced their models,
according to research from NPD Group.  Nike Inc. (NKE)  has disparaged
the footwear, which has driven market share gains at its rivals.  2,000 Gyms  “There is a definitely a risk of saturation in this new
category as people will keep the shoe they have bought for a
couple of years,” said  Klaus Kraenzle , an analyst for the
consumer goods industry at Silvia Quandt & Cie. in  Frankfurt .
Manufacturers such as Reebok will eventually be forced to reduce
their prices, he said.  A partnership with  CrossFit Inc.  gyms in the U.S. will help
to promote the Reebok brand, according to Becker. The agreement
puts the brand alongside “the coolest and fastest-growing
fitness philosophy in the U.S.,” he said. Reebok has started
selling apparel through the  website  for the CrossFit Games and
will sponsor the event, which is held in  California  in July.  Washington-based CrossFit has developed a training system
used by about 2,000 U.S. gyms that combines weightlifting,
sprinting and gymnastics. Becker declined to provide further
details of the cooperation.  Stronger Brand  “It is key for fitness-product makers to start cooperation
with gym operators where the brand is part of joined campaigns
for existing and potential members and trainers wear their
apparel,” said Niels Gronau, a consultant for the leisure
industry at  Deloitte & Touche LLP  in  Germany . “It supports the
brand’s strength and justifies a higher price level.”  Reebok also cooperates with the Fitness First gym chain in
Germany, which has 280,000 members in the country. Fitness
First’s 4,500 German workers, including trainers, will be
outfitted with Reebok gear and the gyms will organize events for
its members to promote new Reebok shoes and apparel.  Reebok made its name in aerobics in the 1980s, introducing
the first shoe for the fitness craze. The brand now accounts for
about 16 percent of sales at Adidas, the world’s second-biggest
sporting-goods maker.  Adidas is seeking to narrow the gap to larger competitor
Nike by boosting sales to 17 billion euros ($24.6 billion) by
2015 from last year’s record 11.9 billion euros. Nike had sales
of $19 billion in its latest fiscal year.  Rising sales of Reebok fitness shoes this year will help
Adidas compensate for the absence of a sporting event the size
of last year’s soccer  World Cup , Adidas says. The Adidas brand
boosted sales by 16 percent last year to 8.7 billion euros, led
by record soccer-related revenue of more than 1.5 billion euros.  “We must activate people to get fitter,” Becker said.
“The willingness is there, but the offer currently isn’t there
to activate enough people. I am very optimistic with what we
have in the pipeline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf, Germany, at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 