-- 
Pelata Resigns Renault’s No. 2 Position Over Spying Affair

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-04-11T17:56:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/renault-s-pelata-is-said-to-step-down-as-operating-chief-stay-at-carmaker.html
Renault SA (RNO)  accepted Patrick Pelata’s resignation from his post as the French carmaker’s
second-in-command over a botched espionage investigation that
led to the wrongful dismissal of three senior managers.  Pelata will stay on temporarily as chief operating officer
before moving to a role within the carmaker’s alliance with
Nissan Motor Co. Ltd., the Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based
company said in an e-mailed statement today.  The board of directors also agreed at an emergency meeting
on the departure of Laurence Dors, the company’s general
secretary; human resources manager Jean-Yves Coudriou; Legal
Director Christian Husson and Director of Security Remi Pagnie.  Renault admitted last month it was tricked into wrongfully
firing three executives after a company investigation
incorrectly concluded they had received payments from Chinese
companies via foreign accounts. Security manager Dominique
Gevrey, who obtained more than 300,000 euros ($434,000) from the
carmaker to pay an anonymous source for the information, was
arrested on fraud charges after the espionage claims unraveled.  Renault’s board examined the findings of an audit ordered
last month to establish the roles and responsibilities of
executives involved in the spy case. The inquiry revealed
“failings and dysfunction within the company, particularly in
the control and supervision of its security department,” the
automaker said.  Shares Drop  Renault fell 88 cents, or 2.2 percent, to 38.99 euros in
Paris trading today. The stock has declined 10 percent this
year, valuing the company at 11.5 billion euros.  The Renault board approved a draft settlement negotiated
with the three wrongfully dismissed executives: upstream
development Michel Balthazard, his former subordinate Bertrand Rochette and electric-car deputy program chief Matthieu Tenenbaum. The automaker didn’t disclose any details.  “It is a very satisfying settlement,” said Xavier
Thouvenin, a lawyer for Balthazard. He declined to specify how
much the former executive will receive. The unanimity of the
board’s decision was “very important to us” and
ends his client’s wrongful firing complaint, he said.  Tenebaum’s lawyer, Thibault de Montbrial, confirmed that an
agreement had been reached, while Rochette’s lawyer didn’t
immediately return calls for comment. The criminal investigation
into how the three men were targeted continues, Thouvenin said.  “We still want to know who started it,” he said. “That will
be the end of the story.”  Government Pressure  The French government, Renault’s biggest shareholder with a
15 percent stake, had raised pressure for resignations before
the meeting, with Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  saying
those responsible for the affair “must depart.” Pelata has
been a close associate of Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn 
for more than a decade.  Ghosn, who also heads Japanese affiliate Nissan Motor Co.,
refused an earlier resignation offer from Pelata over the
espionage case, the carmaker said March 14.  The 55-year-old Pelata, who ran day-to-day affairs at
 Europe ’s second-largest carmaker, graduated from  France ’s elite
Ecole Polytechnique in the same 1974 class as Ghosn, before
joining Renault as head of bodywork assembly at the carmaker’s
plant in Flins, west of Paris.  In 1999, when Ghosn was sent by then CEO Louis Schweitzer
to rescue Nissan from near-bankruptcy, he took Pelata with him
and the two have worked closely together ever since. Pelata took
over day-to-day control from Ghosn in 2008.  Pelata “will continue to manage operations until his
departure from Renault,” when he will move to another job within
the automaker’s alliance with Nissan, the statement said.  The company also negotiated an agreement with Philippe
Clogenson, a fourth executive wrongfully dismissed in
2009, who will return to work next month as business development
director for Renault Consulting, Renault said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 