-- 
Romanian March CPI Rise to 2 ½-Year High, More Than Forecast

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-04-11T09:09:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/romanian-march-cpi-rise-to-2-year-high-more-than-forecast-1.html
Romania ’s inflation rate rose to
the highest in 2 1/2 years in March, more than economists had
forecast, on rising food and fuel costs, bolstering forecasts
that policy makers will probably keep rates steady this year.  The rate advanced to 8 percent, the highest since August
2008, from 7.6 percent in February, the Bucharest-based  National
Statistics Institute  said today in an e-mailed statement. The
annual rate exceeded the median estimate of 7.8 percent in a
Bloomberg survey of eight economists. Prices increased a monthly
0.6 percent.  Central banks around the world are struggling to fight
inflation threats and keep higher food and fuel prices from
spreading to wages amid turmoil in the Middle East. Romanian
policymakers are trying to lower domestic prices boosted by a
government increase in a value-added  tax rate  last year and
global prices, while also shoring up the recession-hit economy.  The rate was “a bit of a negative piece of news but it
doesn’t change our expectation of  interest rates  remaining
unchanged this year, and if anything it strengthens our view
that there aren’t conditions for a rate cut,” said  Raffaella Tenconi , a Bank of America Merrill Lynch economist in  London .  ‘Too Late’  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  left its key rate unchanged
at a record-low 6.25 percent on March 31 for a seventh meeting
in a row and cut foreign-exchange reserve requirements by 5
percentage points to 20 percent, leaving commercial banks more
money to lend to spur the economy, which contracted for two
years in a row. It kept the reserve ratio on leu deposits at 15
percent. The next rate-setting meeting is on May 3.  A reduction in  reserve requirements  on leu liabilities “is
well possible in coming months” as “it’s too late for interest
rate cuts,” Tenconi said.  Romania’s leu, the third-best performer in eastern Europe
after the Hungarian forint and the Serbian dinar this year,
gained 2 percent in March because of an improved economic
outlook and central bank signals that it may allow further gains
in an attempt to damp inflation. The leu rose 0.3 percent to
4.1048 per euro as of 11:02 p.m. in Bucharest.  ‘Elevated’ Pressures  “It seems to us that as long as inflation pressures remain
elevated, the central bank not only has no room to cut rates,
but also has to accept leu gains - unlikely to be as fast as
recent ones perhaps - in order to tame inflation,” Pasquale Diana, a London-based economist at Morgan Stanley, said in a
note to clients today. “In our view, the central bank’s
inflation targets of 3 percent for end-2011 and end-2012 are too
ambitious and out of reach.”  Food-price inflation quickened to an annual 9.9 percent in
March, compared with 8.8 percent in February, boosted by rising
bread, potato and sugar prices, the institute said. Non-food
prices advanced 7.4 percent, compared with 7.3 percent in the
previous month, driven by higher fuel prices. Price growth for
services fell to an annual 5.7 percent, compared with 6 percent
in February, helped by a stronger currency.  The Bucharest-based central bank will probably increase its
inflation outlook because of surging commodity prices, Governor
Mugur Isarescu told the news service Mediafax in an interview on
April 7. The bank raised its inflation forecast on Feb. 7 for
this year to 3.6 percent from a November expectation of 3.4
percent because of rising global fuel and food prices. The rate
will probably drop to 3.2 percent in 2012, according to the
February forecast.  Romania’s trade deficit narrowed in February to 391.5
million euros ($566 million) from 651 million euros a year
earlier as rising demand from western  Europe  boosted exports,
the statistics institute said in a separate statement today. The
deficit was a revised 191 million euros in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  