-- 
Romney Moves Toward U.S. Presidential Run and Focuses Fire on Obama Policy

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-04-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/romney-announces-exploratory-committee-for-presidential-race.html
As Republican  Mitt Romney  took the
first official steps toward a presidential bid yesterday, he
attacked President Barack Obama’s economic policies even while
questions linger over his commitment to conservative causes.  “It is time that we put America back on a course of
greatness, with a growing economy, good jobs and fiscal
discipline in  Washington ,” Romney, 64, said in a video posted
on his  website  in which he announced that he is forming a
committee to explore a 2012 race for the White House.  Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, is the second
Republican to establish a presidential exploratory group,
following former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty . Romney’s
announcement came on the eve of the fifth anniversary of his
signature on a health-care law in  Massachusetts  that some
Republican activists have been urging him to disavow.  Romney has been planning a second run for the presidency
since losing the Republican nomination in 2008 to Arizona
Senator  John McCain . National polls of likely Republican primary
voters have shown him  leading  or one of the top contenders among
a large group of potential candidates. Many Republicans view him
as the “default candidate” for the nomination, said  Jeffrey
Berry , a professor of political science at  Tufts University  in
Medford, Massachusetts.  Establishment of the Massachusetts-based exploratory
committee allows Romney to raise money for a presidential
campaign and requires him to file financial reports with the
 Federal Election Commission .  As Romney’s efforts progress, he must deal with the
challenge of proving his conservative credentials to a wide
swath of the Republican political base, Berry said.  Policy Reversals  In the 2008 campaign, he was criticized over his reversals
on social issues such as abortion and gay rights, which he no
longer supports. When running unsuccessfully against then-
Democratic incumbent Edward M. Kennedy for a U.S. Senate seat
from Massachusetts in 1994, Romney had backed legal abortion and
advocated for gay rights.  As governor of Massachusetts from 2003 to 2007, Romney
supported a law similar to the national health-care overhaul
despised by many fiscal and social conservatives.  “He has to convince people he has a backbone, and that
backbone is conservative through and through,” Berry said.  Romney also struggled in his previous presidential campaign
to alley skepticism about his Mormon faith, particularly from
evangelical Christians who make up a significant portion of the
Republican electorate. If he runs and is elected, he would be
the first Mormon president.  Romney invested more than $40 million of his own fortune in
his 2008 presidential bid.  Business Background  In the video recorded yesterday at the University of  New
Hampshire  announcing his exploratory committee, he touted his
private-sector experience as a co-founder of Boston-based
private equity firm Bain Capital LLC and as CEO of the 2002 Salt
Lake City Winter Olympics.  “From my vantage point in business and in government, I
have become convinced that America has been put on a dangerous
course by Washington politicians, and it has become even worse
during the last two years,” Romney said. “But I am also
convinced that with able leadership, America’s best days are
still ahead.”  “Sometimes I was successful and helped create jobs, other
times I was not,” he said. “I learned how America competes
with companies in other countries, why jobs leave, and how jobs
are created here at home,” he said.  Individual Mandate  Like the federal health-care law that Obama pushed through
Congress last year and that Republicans are trying to overturn,
the 2006 health-care measure in Massachusetts that Romney
shepherded into law includes a mandate requiring individuals to
purchase insurance.  Democrats are attempting to highlight his support for the
state law by hosting mock birthday displays today in early
primary states. In addition, Obama and White House officials
have praised the Massachusetts law.  “I agree with Mitt Romney, who recently said he’s proud of
what he accomplished on health care in Massachusetts and
supports giving states the power to determine their own health-
care solutions,” Obama said Feb. 28 in remarks to the country’s
governors.  In a Wall Street Journal/NBC News  poll  conducted March 31-
April 4, 21 percent of Republican primary voters backed Romney,
putting him ahead of nine other potential candidates.  Republican Rivals  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  on March 3
announced the start of a  website  to enable him to raise money
and explore a presidential run. Other prospective 2012
Republican candidates include former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, who won the Iowa caucuses in 2008; former Alaska
Governor Sarah Palin, the party’s 2008 vice presidential
nominee; Governor Mitch Daniels of  Indiana , a former director of
the Office of Management and Budget; and former Utah Governor
 Jon Huntsman , who is stepping down as ambassador to  China  this
month.  Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour has expressed interest
in the race and has begun traveling to states that hold early
primaries and caucuses, as have former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania  and Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
 Minnesota , a Tea Party favorite.  Businessman  Donald Trump  also is flirting with seeking the
Republican nomination, saying he will announce in June whether
he is a candidate.  Obama formally announced his re-election campaign on April
4, releasing a campaign video on his  website  and sending an e-
mail to supporters that said the job of preparing for his
campaign “must start today.” The headquarters for his re-
election bid will be in  Chicago , his adopted hometown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  