-- 
Samsung Heavy Rises to Highest Since 2007 on $1.2 Billion LNG Ship Orders

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-04-11T03:18:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/samsung-heavy-rises-to-highest-since-2007-on-1-2-billion-lng-ship-orders.html
Samsung Heavy Industries Co., the
world’s second-largest shipyard, received orders to build six
liquefied natural gas carriers worth a total $1.2 billion as
demand for the fuel surges, prompting a jump in the shares.  Seoul-based Samsung Heavy gained 3.6 percent to 45,650 won
as of 10:49 a.m. on the Korea Exchange, set for the highest
close since November 2007. Other shipbuilders also advanced.
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. climbed 0.7 percent. Daewoo
Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. advanced 2.8 percent. The
 Kospi Index (KOSPI)  was little changed.  The record earthquake in  Japan  that crippled nuclear
reactors has spurred increased demand for natural gas. Only 10
new LNG tankers have been ordered worldwide in the past three
years, creating the smallest backlog among major commercial-
vessel types, according to Mirae Asset Securities Co.  “Optimism about LNG vessel demand is driving many
shipyards higher,” said Song Seong Yeob, a  fund manager  at
Seoul-based KB Asset Management Co., which manages $21 billion
in assets. “Higher oil prices are also boosting expectations
for drilling facilities and vessels.”  Samsung Heavy will build four ships for Golar  LNG Energy
Ltd. (LNG)  and two for a customer that wasn’t identified, the company
said in an e-mailed statement today. Samsung Heavy has won about
$4.7 billion worth of orders this year, it said.  Investment in the oil and gas industry, including drilling
platforms, ships and tankers, may also accelerate as crude  oil
prices  soar above $100 a barrel. Oil has advanced as the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization escalated its air campaign over
 Libya  and on concern unrest may spread to other energy-exporting
countries in the Middle East.  STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. gained 1.6 percent. The
company said on April 8 the value of an order it received in May
2008 increased to 308.4 billion won from 258.6 billion won after
a client revised the contract.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  