-- 
Samsung Heavy Wins $1.2 Billion of Ship Orders; Shares Surge

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-04-11T07:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/samsung-heavy-wins-1-2-billion-of-ship-orders-shares-surge-1-.html
Samsung Heavy Industries Co. (010140) , the
world’s second-largest shipyard, received orders to build six
liquefied natural gas carriers worth $1.2 billion as demand for
the fuel surges, prompting a jump in the shares.  Seoul-based Samsung Heavy gained 3.8 percent to 45,700 won
at the close on the Korea Exchange, the highest level since
November 2007. The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 0.3 percent.  The March 11 record earthquake in  Japan  that crippled
nuclear reactors has spurred increased demand for natural gas.
Only 10 new LNG tankers have been ordered worldwide in the past
three years, creating the smallest backlog among major
commercial-vessel types, according to Mirae Asset Securities Co.  “Optimism about LNG vessel demand is driving many
shipyards higher,” said Song Seong Yeob, a  fund manager  at
Seoul-based KB Asset Management Co., which manages $21 billion
in assets. “Higher  oil prices  are also boosting expectations
for drilling facilities and vessels.”  Samsung Heavy will build four ships for Golar  LNG Energy
Ltd. (LNG)  and two for a customer that wasn’t identified, the company
said in an e-mailed statement today. Samsung Heavy has won about
$4.7 billion worth of orders this year, it said. That compares
with $9.7 billion contracts for the entire 2010, according to a
document posted on the company’s  website .  Investment in the oil and gas industry, including drilling
platforms, ships and tankers, may also accelerate as crude oil
prices soar above $100 a barrel. Oil traded near a 30-month high
in  New York  as unrest in  Libya  disrupted crude output and
investors purchased commodities as a hedge against the declining
dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  