-- 
San Miguel, Investor to Sell $850 Million Shares, Bonds

-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-04-11T07:57:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/san-miguel-share-bond-sale-to-raise-850-million-stock-plunges-in-manila.html
San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the  Philippines ’
biggest food and beverage maker, said it and an investor may
raise $850 million selling shares and convertible bonds. The
company’s stock dropped the most in eight months.  San Miguel will use its share of the proceeds in its
infrastructure business and to boost working capital, while
controlling shareholder Top Frontier Investment Holdings Inc.
will repay loans from its own investors, according to a stock
exchange filing today.  Company President Ramon Ang in February said he plans to
spend more than $4 billion to double revenue in five years by
expanding the Manila-based company’s ventures in energy,
transportation and telecommunications. San Miguel’s share price
surged 10 percent in the two weeks through April 8.  “Investors who speculated on the price and size of the
offering were probably disappointed,” said Astro del Castillo,
managing director at Manila-based advisory firm First Grade
Holdings Inc. “There were rumors on the trading floor this
morning that the price wouldn’t be as high as expected.”  Ang in November said  San Miguel  may sell about $3 billion
of shares this year to fund expansion in infrastructure and
power projects. The new shares may be sold at between 150 pesos
and 200 pesos each, he said on Nov. 18. Today's announcement
didn't provide a per-share price.  Accelerating Expansion  The company said in a  separate statement  today that 22
billion pesos from the proceeds of the share sale will be spent
on the infrastructure business. San Miguel, which  started  as a
brewer in 1890, plans to accelerate expansion into industries
including railways, energy, telecommunications and mining.  San Miguel dropped 7.5 percent, the most in eight months,
to close at 160 pesos in Manila trading today. The stock tumbled
as much as 10 percent before today’s announcement.  “One would probably look at this as an effect of either
investors’ profit taking or just staying on the sidelines,”
said  Jonathan Ravelas , a strategist at Banco De Oro Unibank.
“The market has already anticipated that they’ll probably
borrow in dollars.”  San Miguel has about $2.9 billion in cash as it sold assets
to fund acquisitions in industries that could help boost its
return almost threefold from the 7 percent level it previously
earned from food and beverages.  Island Resort  Ang has completed more than $6 billion of asset sales in
the past five years, helping to fund San Miguel’s acquisitions,
including a controlling stake in Philippine oil refiner  Petron
Corp. (PCOR) , the contracts for four government-owned  power plants ,
coal mines and the operator of the airport for the island resort
of Boracay. Chairman Eduardo Cojuangco has said the acquisitions
will “secure” the company’s future.  San Miguel last month said it expects Petron to help boost
earnings after profit declined in 2010. The refiner will
probably contribute about 230 billion pesos to San Miguel’s
sales this year, making it the biggest source of revenue, Ang
said in a Feb. 3 interview.  Petron, the nation’s largest oil company, will build 500
service stations this year, San Miguel chief finance officer
Ferdinand Constantino said at today’s investors briefing. It
will spend $1.8 billion for a refinery expansion project, Ang
said April 6.  Revenue Target  Ang in February said he’s aiming for 1 trillion pesos in
sales by 2016, compared with the 530 billion pesos in revenue he
expects this year.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  were
hired as global coordinators for the bond and share sales, the
statement said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , UBS AG, Daiwa Capital
Markets,  ATR Kim Eng Financial Corp. (ATRK) ,  Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. (BDO) 
and SB Capital Investment Corp. were hired to help manage the
fund raising.  The bonds will be denominated in dollars, San Miguel said.
Investors who will be repaid by Top Frontier will in turn be
paying back loans from a Standard Chartered affiliate, the
company  said .  San Miguel’s market value has more than doubled in the past
year, compared with a 30 percent gain for the benchmark
Philippine Stock Exchange Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  