-- 
Sarkozy Should Mull Curbing Mortgage Loans for Housing Bubble, OECD Says

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-04-11T09:22:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/sarkozy-should-consider-curbing-lending-for-housing-bubble-oecd-says.html
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
government should consider curbing mortgage lending to counter
rising home prices in France, the  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  said.  “There is a risk that a prolonged period of easy finance
could result in a price bubble,” the Paris-based OECD said in a
report released today. “If real-estate prices were to continue
to rise rapidly, the authorities should implement explicit
macro-prudential measures to limit the distribution of credit to
households,” it added.  The comments, set out in the OECD’s Economic Survey of
France, highlight concern that rising  house prices  may pose a
risk to French banks and the recovery from the worst recession
in more than half a century. Bank of  France  Governor Christian Noyer also warned last month that property prices may be on the
verge of a “correction” as euro-area  interest rates  rise.  While house prices across France rose only 1.5 percent on
average in 2010, prices in the Paris region jumped 15.7 percent
to a record 7,645 euros ($10,789) per square meter, according to
the national residential real-estate brokers’ lobby,  FNAIM .
Paris property prices have surged 40 percent since 2005.  Growth Forecasts  The OECD report said that France’s economy may fail to grow
as quickly as the government expects at a time when Sarkozy is
gearing up for an election in April 2012. The report said the
economy is set to expand 1.6 percent this year, less than the 2
percent predicted by the  Finance Ministry , as unemployment
remains stuck at 9.5, the OECD said.  “A moderate recovery is underway, though the major
recession is going to leave lasting traces on public finances
and employment,” the OECD said.  OECD Secretary General  Angel Gurria , presenting the report
today at a press conference in Paris with Finance Minister
 Christine Lagarde , said that “signs of very strong growth in
the first quarter” means that France may meet the 2 percent
growth target for the year.  Sarkozy, who is trailing rivals in the polls, needs to
loosen  labor laws , slash  government borrowing  and consider
limiting mortgage lending to stave off threats to growth and
revive the nation’s growth potential, according to the report.  ‘Intermediate’ Position  The OECD, which advises its 34 member governments on
policy, said that France is in an “intermediate” position
among the group in terms of its ability to rebound after the
2008 financial crisis.  With gross government debt of about 83 percent of annual
output and a persistent trade deficit of about 2 percent of
gross domestic product, the government must press ahead with
reforms, according to the report.  The French government should “ensure that public finances
do not jeopardize macroeconomic stability and continue
implementing structural reforms that spur employment and the
economy’s productive potential,” the OECD said.  The group praised Sarkozy’s 2010 law that raised the
minimum  retirement age  to 62 from 60 as “a serious step
forward” in improving public finances, while saying more work
on pensions remains to be done.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 