-- 
HSBC Client Pleads Guilty to Conspiring to Hide Indian Accounts From IRS

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-04-11T18:35:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/hsbc-client-accused-of-hiding-accounts-in-india-from-u-s-pleads-guilty.html
A New Jersey businessman pleaded
guilty today to conspiring with five  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  bankers
to hide his Indian accounts from U.S. tax authorities.  The plea by Vaibhav Dahake, 44, in federal court in
Trenton, New Jersey, came four days after a U.S. judge in
California gave permission to the  Internal Revenue Service  to
serve a so-called John Doe summons on HSBC for information about
Americans who may have banked in  India  to hide accounts from the
IRS.  The IRS filed court papers citing the Jan. 26 indictment of
Dahake, saying he was a client of London-based HSBC, the largest
European bank by assets. Dahake pleaded guilty to the
indictment, which said he conspired with five bankers at “one
of the largest international banks in the world,” with
headquarters in  England .  “Those who still think they can hide their assets and
income offshore to evade taxes need to rethink their strategy,”
John A. DiCicco, principal deputy assistant attorney general of
the  Justice Department ’s tax division, said in a statement. The
department “is committed to prosecuting such individuals.”  U.S. District Judge Freda L. Wolfson set a sentencing date
of July 22. Dahake, of Somerset, New Jersey, faces as many as
five years in prison after pleading guilty to his indictment.  “HSBC does not condone  tax evasion  and is cooperating with
 law enforcement  in this matter,” bank spokeswoman Juanita Gutierrez said in an e-mail.  ‘A Very Bad Day’  Dahake attorney Lawrence Horn declined to comment on
whether his client is cooperating with government investigators.  “Today was a very bad day,” Horn said. “Tomorrow will be
better.”  Dahake was the first taxpayer charged in a crackdown
focusing on whether HSBC helped clients with Indian accounts
hide assets from the IRS. He admitted conspiring with two
bankers in New York, one in Fremont,  California , and two in
Thane, India.  The indictment said the bank operated a U.S. division
called NRI Services that marketed offshore banking services to
U.S. citizens of Indian descent. Through NRI, the bank
“encouraged U.S. citizens to open undeclared bank accounts in
India,” according to the indictment.  Dahake, a native of India who became a U.S. citizen in
2006, filed false tax returns that hid ownership of and income
from undeclared accounts in India, as well as the British Virgin
Islands, according to the indictment.  ‘High  Interest Rates ’  His British Virgin Islands accounts didn’t pay interest,
and the bank solicited him to open accounts in India that paid
“high interest rates,” according to the indictment.  In 2001, he met with a banker in  New York  who touted the
advantages of an Indian account, “including that no U.S. forms
were required, he did not have to provide a Social Security
number, the account was not taxable in India” and no Form 1099
reporting the interest income would be filed with the IRS,
according to the indictment.  In transferring funds, the banker advised, Dahake should
send multiple checks in the amount of $10,000 rather than one
large one so that he could “stay below the radar,” according
to the indictment.  Two other U.S. bankers also told him that the bank would
not file 1099 forms with the IRS, the indictment said. Last
April, Dahake was talking with a banker in Fremont and asked if
the bank would issue 1099 forms, according to the document. The
banker stopped speaking in English and said in Hindi that Dahake
shouldn’t discuss the forms on the phone, it said.  HSBC closed its NRI offices in New York and Fremont last
June, according to Gutierrez.  The case is U.S. v. Dahake, 11-cr-42, U.S. District Court,
District of  New Jersey  (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  