-- 
Schneider Said to Weigh Takeover of Tyco to Add Security Systems

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-04-11T20:25:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/schneider-electric-said-to-be-considering-takeover-of-tyco-international.html
Schneider Electric SA (SU)  is studying a
takeover offer for  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  that would make the
French company the world’s biggest manufacturer of security
systems, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Schneider is working with bankers to help assess a
potential acquisition of Tyco, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the matter is private.
Schneider’s efforts are at an early stage and no deal is
imminent, the people said. Tyco, based in Schaffhausen,
Switzerland, had a market value of $22.3 billion as of April 8.  Buying Tyco would mark Schneider’s biggest-ever takeover
and would add ADT, the largest security systems firm as well as
fire-prevention equipment and valves used in water systems.
Schneider, which beat  General Electric Co. (GE)  to a French power-
transmission business last year, has sought to expand in factory
automation and building controls, where it trails companies
including  Siemens AG (SIE)  of  Germany  and  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)   “Tyco could have strategic appeal to many bidders, given
consolidation in fire and markets, nascent cablecom interest in
security services and the ability for Tyco’s balance sheet to
support significantly higher leverage,” Nigel Coe, an analyst
at Deutsche Bank AG in New York said in a note. He recommends
investors buy Tyco stock.  Industry Consolidation  The security industry has been consolidating with deals
such as  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s $1.8 billion purchase of
GE’s security unit last year. Hartford, Connecticut-based United
Technologies has spent about $9 billion building its fire and
security businesses in the past decade.  Tyco rose $1.57, or 3.3 percent, to $48.72 in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading, while Schneider fell 4.5
euros, or 3.7 percent, to 117 euros in Paris.  Paul Fitzhenry, a spokesman for Tyco, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation. Anthime Caprioli, a spokesman
for Schneider, declined to comment.  A sale of Tyco would cap a troubled corporate history in
which L.  Dennis Kozlowski  built the company through acquisitions
in the 1990s, only to end in prison in 2005 for  securities
fraud . Tyco announced or completed more than 100 deals from
early 1994 through Kozlowski’s departure in June 2002, with an
average size of $880 million for those with prices disclosed,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kozlowski and former Chief Financial Officer Mark Swartz
were convicted in 2005 of securities fraud, grand larceny and
falsifying business records. Chairman and CEO Edward Breen took
over in July 2002 after Tyco’s board fired Kozlowski.  Rebuilding Tyco  In the years following his appointment, Breen oversaw a
restructuring of Tyco’s debt, replaced most of the top 400
managers including the entire board, and jettisoned divisions
including plastics and metals.  Schneider has announced or completed 11 acquisitions in the
past year. The company teamed up with Alstom SA of  France  last
year to buy power-distribution assets from  Areva SA (CEI)  for 4.09
billion, beating a rival offer by GE. Schneider’s portion of the
transaction was about 1.1 billion euros.  Schneider’s net debt was 2.7 billion euros at the end of
2010, giving it a debt-to-equity ratio of 18 percent. It had 2.6
billion euros of undrawn credit lines when it presented annual
results on Feb. 16.  The median multiple for transactions involving electronic
and electrical components and equipment companies in the past 12
months is 10.1 times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Tyco’s Ebitda
in the year to Sept. 24 was $2.9 billion.  Capital Increase?  “Schneider would probably have to do a capital increase of
about 10 billion euros, which would put its stock under quite
strong pressure,” said Gael de Bray, an analyst at  Societe
Generale  in Paris. “It may make sense because Schneider lacks
some sub-segment in building automation that Tyco offers, such
as security and fire protection systems, but Tyco is a bit too
large to be digested by Schneider.”  CFO Emmanuel Babeau said last year that Schneider aims to
be stronger in industrial automation, where it ranks second
behind Siemens and ahead of  Rockwell Automation Inc. (ROK)  The company
also aims to expand in building automation and security, where
it trails behind Siemens, Johnson Controls and Honeywell.  Tyco’s valves and thermal controls would add to Schneider’s
offerings in industrial automation and energy management systems
for manufacturers, oil and gas companies, and utilities. The
business also makes heated cables used to keep pipes warm at
refineries at Canada’s oil sands and pipes used to transport
water in  Australia .  Three Entities  Tyco split into three publicly traded entities in 2007,
including the former parent, whichBreen runs from West Windsor,
 New Jersey , though the headquarters has since moved to
Switzerland. Tyco posted sales of $17 billion for the fiscal
year ended in September. The company reports second-quarter
results on April 28.  The other offshoots are  Tyco Electronics Ltd. (TEL) , a maker of
electronic connectors, and health-care products maker  Covidien
Plc. (COV)  Tyco Electronics, which also is based in Schaffhausen, last
month renamed itself TE Connectivity Ltd.  Tyco’s largest division is security solutions, which sells
ADT brand systems and represented about 48 percent of first-
quarter sales. Breen helped expand ADT by buying Brink’s Home
Security Holdings Inc. for $2 billion in January 2010, in his
first major acquisition since taking the helm from Kozlowski.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  