-- 
SEC Suspends Trades in Rino International Amid Fraud Allegations

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-04-11T14:35:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/sec-suspends-trades-in-rino-international-amid-fraud-allegations.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission suspended trading in  Rino International Corp. (RINO) , the
Dalian, China-based maker of water-treatment equipment, amid
concerns the company’s financial statements may be false.  Rino failed to disclose that an outside law firm and
forensic accountants hired to investigate allegations of
financial fraud resigned on March 31, the SEC said today in an
e-mail statement. The company also failed to tell investors that
the head of the  audit committee  and all the remaining
independent directors also quit, the SEC said.  The company disclosed last year that the SEC had opened an
investigation into possible fraud after Muddy Waters Research, a
Hong Kong-based firm that analyzes Chinese companies, issued a
November report saying Rino had falsified financial documents.
Later that month, Rino said in a regulatory filing that audited
financial statements for fiscal years 2008 and 2009 shouldn’t be
relied upon because the company didn’t enter into two contracts
for which sales were recorded.  The SEC launched a probe last year of China-based firms
listed on U.S. exchanges, citing concerns that the companies
might be doctoring financial statements to attract investors.
The regulator said some U.S.-based auditors may be signing off
on the disclosures without conducting adequate review.  Further questions have arisen about the size of Rino’s
operations and workforce, the accuracy of customer contracts,
and the existence of two materially different sets of corporate
books and accounts, the SEC said.  The trading halt in Rino shares began at 9:30 a.m. today in
 New York  and will remain in effect until 11:59 p.m. on April 25,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  