-- 
Republican Senator Chambliss Says Ryan’s 2012 Budget Proposal Won’t Work

-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-04-12T04:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/senate-republican-chambliss-says-ryan-s-budget-plan-won-t-work.html
Senator Saxby Chambliss said the
U.S. House’s 2012 budget proposal by fellow Republican  Paul Ryan 
is “not going to work” because it relies too heavily on
spending cuts and doesn’t raise  tax revenue  to help cut the
deficit.  Chambliss, of  Georgia , is co-leader of a bipartisan group
of six senators crafting a debt-reduction plan that may redirect
the budget debate as Congress faces fights over raising the
federal debt limit and the fiscal 2012 budget.  “Are some people going to pay more in taxes? You bet,”
Chambliss, of Georgia, said during a news conference in Atlanta
yesterday after giving a speech to the Rotary Club.  At the same time, he called a proposal by Ryan, chairman of
the House Budget Committee, to privatize Medicare “very
intriguing.” In his speech to the Rotary group, Chambliss said
the plan “could be the answer” to overhauling the federal
health-care program for the elderly.  Ryan’s plan would phase out Medicare and instead provide
retirees with subsidies to buy private health insurance.  The budget proposal released April 5 by Ryan, of  Wisconsin ,
would cut the federal deficit in coming years by about three-
quarters. It would reduce spending by $6 trillion over the next
decade and lower top individual and corporate tax rates from 35
percent to 25 percent.  Chambliss said some tax exemptions will need to be
eliminated to lower tax rates and increase revenue.  ‘Gang of Six’  Chambliss, Virginia Democrat  Mark Warner  and their group’s
other four senators aim to address financing of Medicare,
Medicaid and Social Security. Chambliss said the so-called
“Gang of Six” is “getting close to an agreement” on its
proposal, though he didn’t offer details.  Warner, who joined Chambliss at the Rotary Club, said, “If
we can start this with a bipartisan plan, it increases the
chance of success.”  Chambliss said President Barack Obama’s plan announced by
an aide on April 10 to give a speech tomorrow to propose changes
in Medicare and Medicaid was a “curve ball” for his group.  “None of us knew until yesterday that the president was
going to make any comment on the long-term deficit issue,”
Chambliss said.  Obama speaks at George  Washington  University in the
nation’s capital. The timing of his speech makes it unlikely the
Gang of Six will finish and release its plan this week, said
several congressional aides close to the discussions who spoke
on condition of anonymity.  Jim Kessler, a vice president of the Democratic policy
group Third Way in Washington, said Chambliss’s comments on
taxes -- similar to the view among many Democrats that some tax
increases will be needed to cut the deficit -- are important.  ‘Slim to Possible’  “We’ve moved from slim to possible on a major deficit-
reduction deal this Congress,” Kessler said.  The budget proposal Obama offered in February aims to
reduce deficits by $1 trillion over coming years, though it
didn’t offer proposals on Medicare, Medicaid or Social Security.  Democrats say Ryan’s plan would balance the budget on the
backs of the nation’s seniors and poor while granting tax breaks
to the wealthy.  Warner has said his group is using a report last year by
leaders of the president’s bipartisan deficit reduction
commission as a basis for discussions. The group’s co-chairmen
were former President  Bill Clinton ’s chief of staff  Erskine Bowles  and Republican former Wyoming Senator  Alan Simpson .  Once Obama provides his ideas in his speech, the debate
among Republicans, Democrats and outside interest groups on
restructuring the government’s finances will begin in earnest,
said Simpson.  ‘Shear the Sheep’  “The savagery hasn’t even started,” he said in a phone
interview yesterday. “When they see it getting closer and
closer,” interest groups “will come out of the woodwork and
shear the sheep,” Simpson said.  Kessler said Obama’s speech offers “a great opportunity
for him” to try to win back some of the momentum Republicans
gained in negotiating a short-term budget deal that led to an
April 8 agreement to cut about $38 billion in  government
spending .  At the same time, Kessler said, “there’s a lot of his
progressive base that’s not going to be happy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  