-- 
Senate’s Hatch Urges Dodd-Frank Delay to Set Global Coordination

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-04-11T19:33:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/senate-s-hatch-urges-dodd-frank-delay-to-set-global-coordination.html
Dodd-Frank Act implementation
should be delayed by U.S. regulators until concerns over global
coordination of new rules can be addressed, Senator  Orrin Hatch 
said in a letter to Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner .  Hatch of Utah, the top Republican on the Senate Finance
Committee, asked Geithner to provide details of international
coordination in advance of this week’s meetings of the Group of
20 finance ministers, the World Bank and the International
Monetary Fund.  “There are significant outstanding issues surrounding
global coordination,” Hatch wrote in the letter to Geithner
dated April 8. “These concerns demand delay of further
implementation and rulemaking of Dodd-Frank Act provisions until
and unless we receive assurances that international partners
agree to adopt similar regulatory reforms.”  U.S. regulators including the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. and the Securities and Exchange Commission are writing
hundreds of rules to implement the law enacted last year. Many
must be completed by July 21 -- the one-year anniversary of
President  Barack Obama  signing the rules into law.  Hatch requested information on the implementation, as well
as reports on consultations with other G-20 nations. He also
focused his requests on whether there is international agreement
on the Volcker rule, a provision that would bar banks from
engaging in proprietary trading.  Finance ministers and central bankers from around the globe
are scheduled to meet Washington this week for the semiannual
meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank.
Finance officials from the Group of 20 meet on April 15, and the
International Monetary and Financial Committee, the IMF’s
steering committee, meets on April 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  