-- 
Serb Interest Rates Won’t Fall Before Inflation Meets Target

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-04-11T10:27:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/serb-interest-rates-won-t-fall-before-inflation-meets-target-1-.html
Serbian policymakers will refrain
from cutting  Europe ’s highest interest rates until inflation
slows to within target as they struggle to rein in price
pressures from rising wages and global food and energy costs.  The  Narodna Banka Srbije  raised the two-week repurchase
rate for the third time this year to 12.5 percent on April 7
because cumulative inflation in the first quarter topped 5.5
percent, central bank Governor Dejan Soskic reporters in
Belgrade today.  “We will not start with monetary policy easing before
inflation falls within the target,” Soskic said. Price growth
should begin to slow beginning in June, he said.  Central banks around the world are struggling to contain
inflation as food prices advance and oil costs rise amid turmoil
in the Middle East.  Serbia ’s rate increase, the eighth since
August, came on the same day when the  European Central Bank 
raised its benchmark interest rate a quarter of a percentage
point to 1.25 percent.  Inflation in February jumped to 12.6 percent, the highest
since October 2008, and is likely to climb further in the second
quarter because of electricity price increases that took effect
on April 1.  The central bank targets an inflation rate of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus 1.5 percentage points, at the end of 2011, and 4
percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points, at the end of next
year.  Regulate Price Increases  Soskic said price pressures in Serbia were also resulting
from regulated price increases that have already risen 7
percent, “the limit agreed between the government and the
central bank.”  The appreciation of the dinar, which has gained about 3.5
percent against the euro so far this year, is the result of
supply and demand, Soskic said, referring to a total of 481
million euros in portfolio investments in high-yielding Treasury
bills in February and 20 days of March.  “We would be happier if the appreciation resulted from
higher exports and greater foreign direct investments,” he
said.  The central bank may act on the market to stem the rise to
boost its own foreign-exchange reserves, though they “are high
enough and we don’t need those interventions” at the moment, he
said.  IMF Program  “I think the central bank’s policy is fully consistent
with medium and long-term targets and we expect the relative
stability of the dinar to reflect on prices,” he said.  Later this year, a new loan program with the  International
Monetary Fund  is expected to continue to underpin the dinar,
Soskic said. The National Bank of Serbia advised the government
to seek a “two-year precautionary loan deal,” the size of
which “is a matter of negotiations,” he said.  “I would not be surprised if we had the arrangement around
mid-year,” he said. “We have assurances from the IMF that they
will consider Serbia’s request as soon as we apply.”  The IMF on Friday agreed to disburse 353.5 billion euros to
Serbia after reviewing the implementation of economic policies
under a 2.9 billion-euro loan. Soskic said Serbia will draw only
“around 50 million euros.”  The central bank sees gross domestic product growing about
an annual 2.4 percent in the first quarter, with the full-year
GDP expansion still expected at about 3 percent, mainly driven
by private investments, Soskic said. Growth has finally been
seen in the  construction industry , the most severely hit by
global recession, he said.  Bank lending activity “somewhat slowed down to 15.1
percent year-on-year in February” while still remaining
stronger than in many neighboring countries, he said, while the
share of non-performing loans stabilized at about 17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  