-- 
Sharp Suspends Output at Two LCD Plants Following Quake; to Restart in May

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-04-11T02:02:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/sharp-halts-two-lcd-plants-after-earthquake-aims-to-restart-them-in-may.html
Sharp Corp.,  Japan ’s largest maker
of liquid-crystal displays, plans to suspend its two biggest LCD
factories until May after last month’s natural disaster led to a
shortage of materials.  The plants in  Osaka  and Mie prefectures, halted this month
because of a shortage of gas needed for production, will resume
operations as early as May 6, Miyuki Nakayama, a Tokyo-based
spokeswoman, said by phone today. She declined to say when the
company suspended the factories.  Sharp fell in Tokyo trading on concern the halt will erode
earnings. The Osaka-based company may lose 50 billion yen ($590
million) in revenue and 15 billion yen in operating profit this
fiscal year because of the suspension, according to estimates by
Yoshiharu Izumi, an analyst at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in Tokyo.  Sharp is prioritizing the use of scarce materials,
including gas, at plants that make smaller-sized LCDs because
they are experiencing stronger demand, Nakayama said. The
company has enough TVs in stock to last about a month, she said.
Nakayama declined to specify the amount of TV panels Sharp has
in inventory.  The company had started reducing production of TV panels at
the two plants, Nakayama said last week. Sharp’s so-called 10th-
generation factory in Sakai, Osaka, has a production capacity of
72,000 panels a month, while the eighth-generation LCD plant in
Kameyama, Mie, is capable of making 100,000 panels, she said.  Sharp fell 1.2 percent to 768 yen as of the 11 a.m. break
in  Tokyo  trading. Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
slid 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  