-- 
Shell, Saipem Sign Nigeria Gas Pipeline Contract to Cut Flaring in Delta

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-11T15:53:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/shell-saipem-sign-nigeria-gas-pipeline-contract-to-cut-flaring-in-delta.html
Shell Petroleum Development Co. of
 Nigeria ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s local unit, said it signed a
$101 million contract with Saipem Contracting Nigeria Ltd. for a
natural-gas pipeline.  The 42-kilometer (26-mile) link will collect about 30
million cubic feet a day of processed associated gas from the
Otumara and Saghara fields in the western  Niger Delta  and send
it through the Escravos-Lagos system to the domestic market,
SPDC said today in an e-mailed statement. That will reduce
flaring, or burning of gas produced alongside oil, it said.  “This is an extremely important project for SPDC in terms
of our commitment to ending routine gas flaring, and
consolidating our leadership position in the domestic gas
market,” said Mutiu Sunmonu, SPDC’s managing director.
“Security and funding permitting, we will continue to make good
progress in bringing on the projects that will reduce flares and
boost gas supply to the domestic market.”  The West African nation, with crude oil and condensate
reserves of about 37 billion barrels and more than 187 trillion
cubic feet of gas, loses $3 billion a year as a result of
flaring of gas, according to the Petroleum Ministry. The country
flared 15.2 billion cubic meters last year,  according  to the
 World Bank ’s Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership.  The Hague-based Shell has invested about $3 billion in
Nigeria to cut flaring of gas “significantly” from 2002
levels, the company  said .  Nigeria is  Africa ’s biggest oil producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. crude imports. SPDC operates a joint
venture in the nation in which Shell holds a 30 percent stake
and state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. owns 55
percent. Total SA has a 10 percent stake and Eni SpA has 5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  