-- 
Steve Jobs Biography to Be Released in 2012, Publisher Says

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-11T20:21:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/simon-schuster-s-steve-jobs-biography-will-be-published-in-early-2012.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  co-founder Steve Jobs’s
biography, drawn from three years of interviews with the
executive, will be published in early 2012, according to  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s  Simon & Schuster .  The book, called “iSteve: The Book of Jobs,” will be
based on interviews that author Walter Isaacson has held with
Jobs and his family, the publishing company said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. Isaacson, who’s written biographies of
Albert Einstein and  Benjamin Franklin , also interviewed
colleagues at Apple and competitors, it said.  “This is the perfect match of subject and author,” said
Jonathan Karp, publisher of Simon & Schuster, calling Jobs “one
of the world’s greatest innovators.”  This is the first biography Jobs has authorized, according
to Simon & Schuster spokeswoman Tracey Guest. Several
unauthorized biographies of Jobs have been released, including
“iCon:  Steve Jobs , The Greatest Second Act in the History of
Business,” published by John Wiley & Sons in 2005, and “The
Second Coming of Steve Jobs,” published by Random House Inc. in
2001. “iSteve” may focus on the past three years, marked by
Jobs twice stepping away from daily operations at Apple to focus
on his health. Jobs, 56, announced he had pancreatic cancer in
2004.  Health Issues  In early 2009, when Isaacson first began his interviews,
Jobs announced he would cede day-to-day control of Apple to
Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook . Months later, Jobs confirmed
he had had a  liver transplant , allowing him to return to work.
The following year, Apple unveiled the iPad and the iPhone 4,
which helped it surpass  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  as the world’s largest
technology company.  This year, Jobs again gave Cook operational control to
attend to his health. Although still on leave, Jobs made an
appearance last month in  San Francisco  to release the iPad 2.  Jobs founded Apple in 1976 as a 21-year-old with Steve Wozniak and Ron Wayne. He left the company in 1985 to start NeXT
Inc., rejoining Apple 12 years later when Apple acquired NeXT
for $400 million in cash, stock and debt.  Apple’s board announced that Jobs would assume “an
expanded role” running the company on July 9, 1997, to coincide
with the resignation of Gilbert Amelio as CEO after shares of
the Cupertino, California-based company fell to an 11-year low.
Apple’s market value at the time was $3.15 billion, compared
with a market value of $306.8 billion today. Apple is the third-
largest company in the world behind  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
PetroChina Co.  Jobs was named interim CEO of Apple on Sept. 16, 1997, with
shares closing that day at $5.48. Since then, Apple has risen
60-fold. Apple fell $4.26 to $330.80 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading at 4 p.m. New York time, and has gained 2.6 percent this
year.  Simon & Schuster didn’t disclose terms of book deal. Steve
Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment. CBS rose 17 cents to $24.44 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading and has climbed 28 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  