-- 
Slovenia Risks Debt Crisis Without Pension Overhaul, Pahor Says

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-04-11T13:19:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/slovenia-risks-debt-crisis-without-pension-overhaul-pahor-says.html
Slovenia’s failure to persuade
voters to back a pension overhaul may put the former Yugoslav
republic on the same path of fiscal instability as Ireland or
 Portugal , Prime Minister Borut Pahor said.  Slovenia, which approved a plan to raise the  retirement age 
to 65 from an average 60 years to reduce pension spending, may
need to take the bill to a referendum should union leaders force
a public vote after collecting the required signatures.  The euro region, which Slovenia joined in 2007, is being
wracked by a sovereign debt crisis. Portugal and Ireland have
joined  Greece  in asking for a European Union bailout after
borrowing costs soared.  “If we fail to enforce the pension reform, we may end up
in the group with Ireland and Portugal instead of sitting on the
Franco-German train,” Pahor told reporters in Ljubljana today.
“People seem to be unhappy with the current situation and yet
are opposing reforms that seek to improve the situation.”  Slovenia’s export-driven economy is emerging from the worst
recession since adopting the market economy two decades ago
after gross domestic product plunged the most among the euro
region members in 2009.  Efforts to help recapitalize its banks, offer state-
guarantees to companies to rekindle the economy and subsidize
shorter working hours pushed the public debt level to 38 percent
of total output at the end of last year.  Jobs Bill Rejection  Yesterday, voters in the Balkan nation rejected with an 80
percent majority the so-called mini-jobs bill that was meant to
expand eligibility for more loosely regulated jobs.  The Constitutional Court rejected the government’s claim
that a referendum on pension reform would put the system of
social benefits in jeopardy.  The nation’s public debt stood at 35.2 percent of gross
domestic product at the end of 2009 and is forecast to advance
to 43.3 percent of GDP by the end of this year, statistics
office has said.  Slovenia’s failure to overhaul its pensions may also speed
up a ratings downgrade of the country with the highest credit
score in eastern  Europe , Marko Mrsnik, an analyst at Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services, said in a Feb.3 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  