-- 
Sniace Says 2011 Sales to Rise on Chinese Demand, Higher Prices

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-04-11T08:35:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/sniace-says-2011-sales-to-rise-on-chinese-demand-higher-prices.html
Sniace SA, a Spanish maker of wood-
based products that’s expanding in renewable energy, said 2011
sales and earnings will climb as it provides substitutes for
cotton, which has more than doubled in price in the past year.  “2011 looks very good,” Chairman Blas Mezquita said in an
interview in Madrid. “The markets where we operate, especially
 China , have started the year with a very strong demand,” which
allowed Sniace to raise prices. “The first semester is going to
be a good one, and we are optimistic for the rest of the year as
well.”  Further price increases for the Madrid-based company’s
cellulose pulp and  viscose fiber  will “significantly” boost
sales as well as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization this year, the executive said.  Demand for those products in China has been climbing more
than 10 percent annually for the last few years, Mezquita said.
Chinese purchases of cotton and Indian export restrictions drove
prices for that commodity higher in the past year, further
encouraging textile manufacturers to use alternatives. Farmers
in the U.S. and  Australia  have responded to higher cotton prices
by planting record amounts of the crop.  Mezquita said it will take time and money for cellulose and
viscose suppliers to catch up with demand, forecasting stable
growth in sales and gross margins for the next 2 1/2 years. The
company also sells chemical by-products of the cellulose and
viscose manufacturing processes.  ‘Feeling of Scarcity’  “There’s something of a feeling of scarcity in the
industry” as Chinese and Indian demand grows, the 52-year-old
executive said. “We expect significant increases during the
year. All businesses are going to do better than in 2010.”  First-quarter sales and earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization will be better than a year
earlier, he said, declining to provide specific figures as
results are scheduled to be published at the end of this month.  Sniace, founded in 1939, expects revenue from renewable
energy to account for 80 percent of sales by 2014, compared with
about a third last year, Mezquita said.  “Our traditional businesses are very cyclical, with great
variations in prices,” he said. “About five years ago we decided
to diversify into areas with less cyclical and more recurrent
revenue such as renewable energy.”  Energy Production  Sniace raised capital in 2006 to finance expansion in
ethanol production and power generation. The company’s revenue
surged 78 percent in 2008 after it bought out partners in an
energy-production venture.  Compared with Sniace’s other businesses, renewable energy
is “more stable and regular, as demand is more inelastic,”
Mezquita said in the April 7 interview. “Renewable energy made
sense for us as we had synergies.”  The company is seeking opportunities to invest in renewable
energy in countries such as  Colombia ,  Brazil  and the U.S., he
added.  “We have held advanced talks with some potential partners
in Colombia,” he said. “It’s a country that we like, as it has
great growth potential and is very developed in ethanol and
biofuels.” The timing and volume of any potential deals in the
region “will be determined by access to funding, which is still
very limited,” he added.  Bioethanol, made by fermenting crops such as wheat, can be
mixed with gasoline for use in cars and planes, helping to curb
consumption of oil-based motor fuel.  The company also aims for future growth in  wind energy ,
especially in the U.S. and Latin America.  Sales Goal  Sniace expects to secure funding to start building a
bioethanol plant in Cantabria, northern  Spain , within a month,
and aims to start another in  Poland  before the end of the year,
which should help total sales triple to about 500 million euros
($721 million) in 2014 from 128 million euros last year,
according to Mezquita.  “Our priority today is to finish all projects we are in,
but we are already studying future opportunities in renewable
energy, both ethanol and wind energy,” Mezquita said. “We’ll
also look at any opportunity in wind energy in Spain.”  The company, which doesn’t plan to pay a dividend while it
focuses on growth, may study the sale of some assets in its
cellulose and viscose division in the next few years, the
chairman said.  “It depends on the price and profitability,” Mezquita
said. “We aren’t close to any transaction, as growth will come
from energy in the next few years. Sniace will then be more of a
renewable-energy company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  