-- 
Somalia’s Government Says It Opposes United Nations-Backed Talks in Kenya

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-04-11T15:22:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/somali-government-opposes-un-backed-talks-on-conflict-in-kenya.html
Somalia’s government said it
opposes a planned United Nations-backed meeting in neighboring
 Kenya  that will discuss the country’s political situation.  Two days of discussions that begin tomorrow in Nairobi, the
Kenyan capital, are being held to “reconcile” differences
between members of Somalia’s transitional government and its
partners, according to the UN Political Office for Somalia.  “We believe that this meeting is an obstacle to the Somali
government’s efforts and developments” to stabilize Somalia,
Abdirahman Omar Osman, a spokesman for the government, said by
phone today from Mogadishu, the capital. “Every consultative or
reconciliation meeting should be held in Somalia, not foreign
states.”  Somalia’s transitional federal government last month
extended its mandate by one year to August 2012 to ensure it has
time to finish off a war with Islamic insurgents and set up a
stable system of governance,  Agence France-Presse  said on April
1, citing Prime Minister Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed.  The U.S. and UN have called for Somalia’s transitional
government to step aside as originally planned this August. The
replacement administration should focus on making the country
more self-sufficient, U.S. Deputy Secretary of State  James
Steinberg  said on Feb. 3. The country will miss an August target
to enact a new constitution that would have paved the way for
elections, Augustine Mahiga, the UN’s representative for
Somalia, said in January.  ‘Congenial Atmosphere’  The talks are taking place in Nairobi to create a
“congenial atmosphere” and for logistical reasons because of the
insecurity in Mogadishu and lack of accommodation, Mahiga said
in an interview today in Nairobi.  Somalia has been mired in civil war for two decades and
hasn’t had a functioning central government since the 1991
ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre. The current government,
backed in Mogadishu by about 9,000 African Union troops, is
battling Islamic militants for control of the city, as well as
southern and central Somalia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 