-- 
Soros Warns Moral Hazard ‘Looms Larger’ as Volcker Says Big Banks Can Fail

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-04-11T19:12:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/soros-warns-moral-hazard-looms-larger-as-volcker-says-big-banks-can-fail.html
Moral hazard in the financial
system “looms larger than ever before,” even after the Dodd-
Frank law gave U.S. federal agencies tools to regulate
institutions that may be deemed too big to fail, said
billionaire investor  George Soros .  “The evidence is overwhelming that the first priority of
the authorities is to prevent a market collapse, and everything
else has to take second place,” Soros, chairman of Soros Fund
Management LLC, said yesterday at a conference in Bretton Woods,
 New Hampshire .  Paul Volcker , former Federal Reserve Chairman, challenged
the notion that large financial institutions wouldn’t be allowed
to collapse, and asked Soros whether the extra yield on  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  bonds relative to Treasuries would widen if the
firm gave up its bank license.  “Probably currently it wouldn’t go up very much, but it
would go up,” Soros said.  The Fed allowed investment banks Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley to convert to bank holding companies in September 2008.
Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation law enacted in July, gave
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. authority to wind down
complex firms after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. exacerbated the credit crisis and forced the U.S. to bail
out companies including American International Group Inc.  “So you’re not 100 percent sure,” Volcker replied. “You
want a tough administrator, you get Sheila Bair up here and
she’ll tell you what will happen if you fail on her watch.”  ‘Too-Big-to-Fail’  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Chairman Bair told
bankers last month that while the Dodd-Frank law is not
“perfect,” it will strengthen the sector by giving the agency
tools to regulate “too-big-to-fail” institutions.  Goldman Sachs’ $1.5 billion of 5.15 percent notes due
January 2014 traded at 107.21 cents on the dollar to yield 111.6
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries as of April
8, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The securities fell to
a low of 75 cents in October 2008.  “It’s clear they’re clinging to this banking license they
got during the crisis because they think the market would permit
them to fail if they weren’t a bank,” Volcker said.
“Otherwise, why would they be holding onto the banking license
with all the additional regulation?”  Volcker Rule  Volcker, 83, is known for taming inflation in the 1980s as
Fed chairman and he provided advice on economic issues as well
as the rewriting of regulations for financial institutions. The
law enacting those regulations included the so-called Volcker
rule, which banned proprietary trading at banks and restricted
their investments in private-equity and hedge funds.  He was President Barack Obama’s head of Obama’s Economic
Recovery Advisory Board and was replaced by General Electric Co.
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt .  While the Volcker provision “was loosened up a bit,” it’s
incorrect to say that it was completely watered down, the former
Fed chairman said. There’s still “intense” lobbying by the
banking industry to influence financial reform, he said.  Europe’s refusal to allow members of the monetary union to
restructure their debt has added to moral hazard in the
financial system, Soros said.  Portugal  will start negotiations
with the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  this
week on a rescue package estimated at 80 billion euros ($116
billion). The country was forced to seek aid, following Greece
and Ireland, after its budget gap helped drive up borrowing
costs.  Soros Bets  “Look at the situation in  Europe , for instance, where
authorities are insisting on no renegotiation or restructuring
on outstanding debt because that could possibly provide a
financial banking crisis,” Soros said. “At the present we bail
out, but in the future we will bail in. It has absolutely no
credibility.”  Soros, 80, reportedly made $1 billion in a successful bet
in 1992 that Britain would fail to keep its currency in a
European exchange-rate system that pre-dated the euro. Other
successful trades included a bet that the deutsche mark would
rise after the collapse of the Berlin wall and a wager that
Japanese stocks would start to tumble in 1989.  He and Volcker spoke at a conference sponsored by the
Institute for New Economic Thinking, which Soros helped found
and supports.  U.S. and European officials met in  Bretton Woods  in 1944 to
draw up rules that governed much of the world economy for almost
three decades. Nations agreed to fix exchange rates, establish
the International Monetary Fund and start the process of
rebuilding Europe’s economy in the aftermath of World War II.  The Bretton Woods era ended in 1971, when inflation forced
the U.S. to abandon the dollar’s peg to gold, an anchor of the
system, heralding the era of floating exchange rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  