-- 
South African Export Coal Rises on Speculation of Japan Buying

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-04-11T10:38:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/south-african-export-coal-rises-on-speculation-of-japan-buying.html
Export-coal prices at  South
Africa ’s  Richards Bay  terminal, the continent’s biggest facility
for the fuel, rose the most in more than two months on
speculation Japanese power generators were buying the fuel.  Prices climbed 3.3 percent to $124.74 a metric ton on
average last week, according to Petersfield, England-based
researcher IHS McCloskey. The gain was the biggest since the
week ended Feb. 4.  Japan  faces the prospect of electricity shortages after an
earthquake and tsunami on March 11 cut national power-generating
capacity by 8 percent. The disaster crippled the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant. Japan will have to compensate for lost
nuclear power with other sources such as natural gas and coal.  “Domestic utilities are anxious to secure volumes to
ensure supply as power consumption resumes within the country --
given nuclear power is likely to remain constrained,”  Daniel Brebner , a London-based analyst with Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in
a report on April 8.  Japanese coal imports in February were 8.9 percent lower
than in December, according to figures from the country’s
finance ministry.  Richards Bay Coal Terminal exported about 5 percent less
coal in March than a year earlier as derailments hindered
shipments to the port. Shipments fell to 5.36 million tons from
5.66 million tons in March 2010, the terminal, located on South
Africa’s eastern coast, said in a  report  on April 6.  Shipments to  India   India is taking 70 percent of coal shipped from Richards
Bay, Emmanuel Fages, an analyst at Societe Generale SA in Paris,
said on April 4. The terminal, owned by producers including
Xstrata Plc, can export 91 million tons a year.  Benchmark European coal derivatives retreated. Coal for
delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or Antwerp with settlement next
year declined 85 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $132.65 a ton by
10:41 a.m. in  London .  The data are drawn from information supplied by ICAP Plc,
 GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) , Spectron Group Ltd., Credit Suisse Group AG, IHS
McCloskey, Bloomberg, Tradition Financial Services and Tullett
Prebon Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 