-- 
Suzlon May Be ‘Bottoming Out’ After Debt Holiday, Repower

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-04-11T17:15:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/suzlon-may-be-bottoming-out-in-mumbai-after-debt-holiday-repower-deal.html
Investors have piled back into
 India ’s  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , the wind-turbine maker that’s behind
on debt payments, as it takes steps to improve margins, reduce
loans and generate cash.  The company leaped 24 percent in Mumbai in 11 trading days,
helped by saying on April 4 it will buy out minority stock-
holders in its profitable German unit,  Repower Systems AG. (RPW)  Three
days later Repower announced a 240-machine order, its biggest
ever in  Europe , in a deal that may be worth at least 530 million
euros ($765 million), Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimated.  The world’s sixth-largest manufacturer of windmills for
power production may be headed for a “turnaround” and could
return to profitability in the fiscal year ending March 31,
2012, Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst Bharat Parekh said.  “We believe that Suzlon is bottoming out,” Parekh said in
an April 8 note to clients. The Ahmedabad-based company has lost
money for four straight quarters on a consolidated basis.  Investors who saw Suzlon lose 93 percent of its value in
the 14 months after it hit a record high on Jan. 9, 2008, will
be watching whether analysts revise earnings estimates after it
said it will buy the 4.8 percent stake held by other investors
in Repower. That’s a transaction JP Morgan and CLSA Asia Pacific
Markets analysts said will bring it financial benefits.  ‘ Turning Point ’  The stock, after rising today to its highest since Jan. 4,
dropped for the first time in four days. It lost 1.4 percent to
close at 54.4 ruppees, leaving its loss for the year at 0.6
percent and trailing No. 1-ranked wind-turbine maker Vestas Wind
Systems A/S of Denmark, which has gained 15 percent.  Suzlon’s margins will improve as it shifts Hamburg-based
Repower’s production to lower-cost plants in India, CLSA Asia
Pacific Markets said in an April 5 note. Suzlon will get access
to Repower’s cash, making it easier to manage its $2.7 billion
in debt, JPMorgan said in a note on April 4.  “It’ll be a turning point” buying out Repower, said
Gaurav Oza, a Mumbai-based analyst with A.K. Stockmart Pvt.,
which has an “accumulate” rating on the stock. “This changes
the picture entirely for Suzlon.”  Suzlon won a two-year grace period on principal repayments
in 2010 when it refinanced 100 billion rupees ($2.27 billion) in
loans taken to buy stakes in Repower and Belgium-based gearbox
maker  Hansen Transmissions International NV. (HSN)   A buyout prepares the way for Suzlon to take steps, such as
extracting dividends, loans or technology from its unit, that
have been blocked by German laws designed to protect minority
shareholders, said Martin Hitzer, a mergers and acquisitions
lawyer at German law firm  Gleiss Lutz  in Dusseldorf.  Squeeze-Out Steps  “Suzlon’s had to act in the best interests of Repower and
that’s not necessarily the same as acting in its own best
interest as a majority shareholder,” Hitzer said by telephone.
“In the end, it’d have the right to do all sorts of things that
you can’t do with an independent, listed company.”  Suzlon announced on April 4 it acquired 95.16 percent of
Repower through open market purchases, enabling it under German
law to initiate a “squeeze-out” to buy out the remaining
shareholders. Two auditors, one appointed by Suzlon and the
other by a German court, will have to agree on a value of the
remaining stake, Suzlon said in an e-mail response to questions.  Squeeze-out proceedings have been completed as quickly as
four months or taken as long as two years in other cases, Hitzer
said. While minority shareholders in principle don’t have the
right to block a squeeze-out, in practice they can cite small
breaches in formalities and other tactics to delay and extract
better terms, he said.  Loans Due  Suzlon is under pressure to generate cash by next year, when
loan repayments start and $389 million in convertible bonds
mature.  With a buyout, Suzlon could use Repower’s “balance sheet
and cash flows in case it lands in a debt trap,” Bhargav
Buddhadev, an analyst with Ambit Capital Pvt., said in a note.
Repower had 291 million euros of cash and 600 million euros in
loans, according to data compiled by Bloomberg through December.  Suzlon acquired a 7.7 percent stake in April 2007 for 1.2
billion euros and gradually expanded its holding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  