-- 
Swedish FSA Won’t Force Banks to Raise Mortgage Risk Weights

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-04-11T08:11:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/swedish-fsa-won-t-force-banks-to-raise-mortgage-risk-weights.html
Sweden ’s financial regulator will
disregard central bank calls to assign higher risk weights to
mortgage assets and opt instead for tougher stress tests to
ensure lenders have enough capital to guard against losses.  The Stockholm-based  Financial Supervisory Authority  will
require banks to prove they can withstand bigger shocks than
those tested for to date to prevent lenders from growing
complacent, said Martin Andersson, the regulator’s director-
general. He says adjusting the so-called Pillar 1, which
concerns minimum capital requirements including risk weightings,
is too backward looking and wants Sweden instead to focus on
Pillar 2, which allows regulators to assess risk based on
possible future losses.  “Pillar 1 is inherently pro-cyclical. You try to change
some parameters here and there but the risk is that it becomes
patchwork,” Andersson said in an interview. Sweden needs to use
Pillar 2 “more actively,” he said.  Andersson’s comments brush aside proposals by central bank
Governor Stefan Ingves, who in a  March 1 speech  proposed
requiring banks to increase risk weightings on mortgage assets
to reflect rising household indebtedness. Sweden, home to four
of the six largest Nordic banks and with a financial sector four
times the size of its economy, should target some of the world’s
toughest regulatory standards, Finance Minister Anders Borg said
in February.  ‘More Onerous’  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  shares were the biggest gainer on
the OMX Index of Sweden’s 30 most-traded companies, rising as
much as 2 percent. The stock rose 0.9 percent to 215.8 kronor at
10:07 a.m. in Stockholm.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  rose as much as 0.8 and
was little changed at 71.90 kronor. SEB AB gained 0.3 percent to
59.2 kronor, while  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  rose 0.4 percent to 115 kronor.  Though the FSA says it will make stress tests more
rigorous, its decision not to focus on risk weightings may come
as a relief to banks in Sweden, home to Europe’s fifth-largest
mortgage-backed covered-bond market. Still, it also gives the
FSA more freedom to dictate standards rather than creating a
fixed set of parameters, analysts said.  “If they use Pillar 2 then it becomes more discretionary
from a regulator viewpoint,” Chintan Joshi, an analyst at
Nomura International Plc in  London , said in an e-mail. “I’m not
sure if I can say it will be more positive as it can become
subjective and potentially more onerous depending on how strict
the regulator wants to be.”  `Too Much Capital'  European regulators will use a tougher measure of capital
on 90 lenders in this year’s stress tests following criticism
that last year’s tests weren’t stringent enough, the European
Banking Authority said on April 8.  The Independent Commission on Banking recommended the
U.K.’s biggest banks should hold core Tier 1 capital levels of
about 10 percent, the group said in a report published today.  Raising risk weightings, with higher rates reflecting that
an asset class may be more prone to losses, could force banks to
keep “too much capital in the system,” Jan Wolter, a Deutsche
Bank AG analyst based in Stockholm, said in a March 29 note.  Swedish banks have enjoyed the lowest residential-mortgage
risk weightings in  Europe  over the past decade, according to a
March 22 note by Stockholm-based lender SEB. Risk weights have
remained low even as Ingves cautions that the country’s property
market may face credit-driven imbalances.  `Pretty Calm'  The central bank, whose main mandate is to defend a 2
percent inflation target, says its five interest-rate increases
since July were in part needed to help offset housing-market
risks as property prices exceed a pre-crisis peak. According to
one of the bank’s six board members, those risks may be abating.  “Lending is slowing down” and “the rate increases we’ve
done have obviously had an effect. I’m pretty calm at the
moment,” Riksbank Deputy Governor Lars Nyberg said in an April
1 interview.  Swedish banks, including the country’s biggest mortgage
lenders Handelsbanken and Swedbank, on average assign a 6
percent to 7 percent risk weight to their mortgage assets,
according to Matti Ahokas, a financial analyst at Handelsbanken
in Helsinki. Banks had feared the rate might be sent as high as
15 percent, said Joshi.  “Of course this is backward looking,” Andersson said.
“If you wanted to be forward looking, you could increase that
to 10-20 percent, but raising the numbers won’t affect the
interest rate for households that much. Pillar 2 framework is
much simpler and more straightforward.”  `Beneficial' for Banks  Sweden’s largest banks will be  required  to have a core Tier
1 capital ratio of at least 10 percent to 12 percent and total
capital of at least 15 percent in a few years, Andersson said.  The Nordic region’s largest lender, Stockholm-based Nordea,
has railed against proposals for tighter  capital requirements 
that Chief Executive Officer Christian Clausen calls “a bit
strange” and “not realistic.”  “There seems to be a notion out there that if we have 10
percent capital that is fine and that is where we will be, to
which we’ve said: no we don’t think so,” Andersson said.  Andersson said he expects European regulation broadly to
harmonize with Sweden’s 10 percent to 12 percent capital goal.  “One of the things we learned from the crisis is I don’t
believe there is a great advantage for any banks to be in a
regime or national context where there are low capital
requirements,” he said. “Strong regulation, strong supervision
will be beneficial for the banking sector in their ability to
participate in the global financial markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net .
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  