-- 
U.A.E. Bourses to Start DvP System, Joining Qatar in Seeking MSCI Upgrade

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-04-11T12:14:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/u-a-e-stock-markets-to-start-dvp-system-this-month-to-meet-msci-criteria.html
United Arab Emirates bourses will
start the so-called delivery-versus-payment system on April 28
as they join Qatar’s exchange in seeking to boost chances for an
upgrade at  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)   "We hope the new development would contribute in uplifting
our markets to emerging market status, which will help attract
more international mutual funds,"  Dubai Financial Market (DFM)  PJSC
Chief Executive Officer Essa Kazim said in a statement from the
 Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority  received today.
The Qatar Exchange started the DvP system today and will
implement further changes in May.  MSCI indexes are tracked by investors with an estimated
$5.2 trillion in assets, according to a May report by Shinhan
Investment Corp. Dubai plans to introduce short-selling as well
as securities borrowing and lending, also MSCI requirements,
later this year, the DFM said in January. The index provider
will in June revalue its assessment of the markets by examining,
among others, economic development, trading volumes and market
accessibility.  Dubai’s benchmark stock index reversed a loss of as much as
1.1 percent after the announcement, gaining 0.2 percent to the
highest since Feb. 16 at the 2 p.m. close. Abu Dhabi’s measure
rose 0.4 percent and Qatar’s gauge advanced 1 percent.  Generating Demand  A promotion at MSCI would “generate demand for Dubai and
Abu Dhabi stocks,” said Nabil Farhat, partner at Abu Dhabi-
based Al Fajer Securities. “It would improve the volume of
activity, which is good news for brokerages.”  MSCI classifies six of the Gulf’s seven bourses, including
those in the U.A.E. and Qatar, as frontier markets, a
designation that typically applies to economies and financial
markets that are less developed.  Saudi Arabia ’s market is not
categorized. MSCI cited a dual account structure as one of the
reasons for the frontier market status of the U.A.E. and Qatar.  "We have set the market on the right track and it’s left to
the market participants to react,’’ DFM’s Kazim said in a phone
interview today. "MSCI makes its judgment based on that
feedback.’’ Foreign ownership limits are related to the company
law and short-selling, borrowing and lending are part of a
second phase of changes, Kazim said.  DvP in Dubai   The U.A.E. Economy Minister Sultan al-Mansouri said in
February the country’s new company law is awaiting approval by
the cabinet. Under existing law, foreign companies must have
U.A.E. nationals as their sponsors and are limited to a maximum
49 percent ownership of businesses, except in free zones.  "DvP does not change the DFM settlement duration of T Plus
2 system, nor does it revoke the need for early cross-check to
ensure that the securities being offered for sale are available
in the client’s trading account,’’ according to the regulator’s
statement today.  Delivery versus payment is a securities industry procedure
in which payment for a security must be made when the security
is delivered. Usually, the payment is made to a bank, which in
turn pays for the security. Short sellers borrow and sell an
asset, hoping to profit by buying it back later for less.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  