-- 
U.K. Retail Sales Plunged Most on Record in March, BRC Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-12T09:25:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/u-k-retail-sales-plunged-most-on-record-in-march-brc-says.html
U.K. retail sales dropped by a
record in March as accelerating inflation squeezed households’
finances and concerns about employment prompted consumers to cut
back, the  British Retail Consortium  said.  Sales at stores measured by value fell 1.9 percent from a
year earlier, partly due to the timing of Easter in 2010, the
London-based BRC said in a report today. That’s the biggest drop
since the series began in 1995 and compares with a 1.1 percent
gain in February. On a like-for-like basis, which excludes new
store openings, sales fell 3.5 percent, the most since 2005.  U.K. households are seeing their spending power eroded at
the fastest rate in more than 60 years as food and energy costs
soar and the aftermath of the recession restrains wage
increases. Signs of a faltering economic recovery as well as the
government’s value-added tax increase and the deepest spending
cuts since World War II are undermining  consumer confidence .  “Uncomfortably high inflation and low wage growth have
produced the first year-on-year fall in disposable incomes for
30 years,” BRC Director General  Stephen Robertson  said in the
report. The combination has “left people unwilling to spend
unless they really had to.”  The pound declined as much as 0.7 percent against the
dollar after a report showed U.K. inflation unexpectedly slowed
for the first time in eight months. Sterling was trading at
$1.6233 as of 10:24 a.m. in  London  and the yield on the 10-year
British government bond fell 7 basis points to 3.74 percent.  Inflation Over Target  The rate of annual consumer-price gains dropped to 4
percent in March from 4.4 percent in February, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in London. Last month’s reading
was double the Bank of England’s target. The central bank left
its key interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent last week
as a faltering recovery takes priority over the threat from
prices.  Big-ticket home and furniture purchases “suffered most”
in March and sales were often promotion-led, the BRC said.  The U.K. housing market “remained flat during March” with
evidence of “low sales levels and falling demand,” the  Royal
Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said today. Still, a U.K.
house-price gauge rose 3 points to minus 23 in the month, a sign
value declines eased, RICS said.  HMV Plc, the music and books retailer, and  Carpetright Plc (CPR) ,
both issued profit warnings last week.  Andy Bond , former chief
executive officer of Wal-Mart Store Inc.’s Asda chain, said the
“retail recession” is still ahead and forecast an “extended
period of constrained consumption.”  Food Sales  In the three months through March, food sales dropped 0.3
percent from the same period a year earlier on a like-for-like
basis, the BRC said. Sales of non-food items fell 1.1 percent.  The data “has led to fresh worries that  consumer spending 
is nose-diving in the face of weak incomes and rising taxes,”
 Michael Saunders , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in London, said
in a note to clients today. “However, while consumer spending
is undeniably sluggish, it is likely that the relatively late
timing of Easter this year is exaggerating the drop.”  The BRC said the  Bank of England  should consider delaying
any increase in borrowing costs as that may put more pressure on
retailers.  “Supporting our weak economy must be the priority,”
Robertson said. “Increasing interest rates would do more harm
than good.”  The BRC report, which is compiled in conjunction with
accountancy firm KPMG LLP, measures changes in the actual value
of retail sales and doesn’t adjust for price changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  