-- 
U.K. Commission Says It Hasn’t Yet Decided Fire-Break Solutions

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n
-- 
2011-04-11T14:38:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/u-k-commission-says-it-hasn-t-yet-decided-fire-break-solutions.html
The British government’s
 Independent Commission on Banking  said it had not yet decided
how to implement fire breaks around lenders’ consumer banking
units.  “How the retail ring-fence would work, that’s one of the
prime things which as I’ve already indicated, we are going to
have to think about from now on,”  John Vickers , chairman of the
commission, told journalists today. “It’s very much one of the
things we would welcome informed views, analysis and opinion.”  The commission’s interim report published today offered
proposals on increasing the stability of the banking system,
with the final report scheduled to be handed to Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  in September. Britain’s largest
consumer banks should have equity capital of at least 10
percent, together with loss-absorbing debt should operate within
banks’ holding companies, Vickers said today.  Retail units are likely to include current accounts, known
in the U.S. as checking accounts,  savings accounts , business
loans, wealth management advice, mortgages, investment products,
consumer loans, credit cards, trade and project finance, though
the boundaries are yet to be decided, Vickers said.  “On any sensible ring-fencing plan the vast bulk of that
activity would be in the retail unit,” said Vickers. “We don’t
want to say at this stage, in what is an interim report, that
everything of that description is in the retail unit.”  The review’s solution of subsidiarization “leaves a lot of
questions to be answered,” said Jonathan Herbst, partner in the
financial services regulation team at  Norton Rose LLP  in London
in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jon Menon in  London  at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  