-- 
U.K.’s Independent Commission on Banking Report: Main Findings

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-04-11T08:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/u-k-s-independent-commission-on-banking-report-main-findings.html
The U.K.’s Independent Commission
on Banking comments on capital standards, ring-fencing of
consumer banking operations and Lloyds Banking Group Plc branch
sales in a report released today.  On Capital Standards:  “The Commission’s view is that the 10 percent equity
baseline should become the international standard for
systemically important banks, and that it should apply to large
U.K. retail banking operations in any event.”  On Ring-Fencing Retail Banking:  “It is open to debate whether a retail ring-fence would
give more or less banking stability than full separation between
retail banking and wholesale and investment banking. It would be
less costly to banks because they would retain significant
freedom to transfer capital. The required U.K. retail capital
level would constrain banks only when they wanted to go below it
to shift capital elsewhere, say to their wholesale and
investment banking operations. Rather than pursuing more radical
policies towards capital or structure, the approach outlined
above is a combination of more moderate measures.”  On Lloyds Banking Group Plc Branch and Asset Sales:  “The Commission therefore suggests that the Government
seek agreement with Lloyds Banking Group to enhance the
divestiture substantially. An enhanced divestiture could give an
improved outcome for competition, both by reducing market
concentration and by strengthening the divestiture’s ability to
act as a challenger.”  “However, if a substantially enhanced divestiture does not
result, there could be a strong case for the competition
authorities to conduct a market investigation of the personal
banking and SME markets in the U.K.”  On Lloyds Branches and Northern Rock Combination:  “In particular, the commission would not want to preclude
the possibility of Northern Rock Plc being used to strengthen
competition at a national level, for example by being combined
with the Lloyds Banking Group divestiture in order to strengthen
a new challenger bank.”  On the Cost of Ring-Fencing:  “On balance, the commission’s current view is that the
private costs of a U.K. retail ring-fence may be material but
are likely to be much smaller than the 12 billion pounds ($20
billion) to 15 billion pounds estimate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  