-- 
U.K. House-Price Gauge Increases on Decline in Property Supply, RICS Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-12T09:11:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/u-k-home-price-gauge-climbs-for-fifth-month-on-fewer-properties-for-sale.html
A U.K. house-price gauge rose for a
fifth month in March as the number of properties for sale
declined, the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said.  The number of real-estate agents and surveyors saying
prices fell exceeded those seeing gains by 23 percentage points,
compared with 26 in February, the London-based group said in an
e-mailed report today. Economists had forecast a reading of 24,
based on the median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.
London was the only region to record an increase in prices.  Recent data have shown a mixed picture of the housing
market, with banks curtailing lending and the prospect of the
tightest government budget squeeze since World War II casting a
shadow over the economic outlook. While the  Bank of England  held
its key interest rate at a record low last week, three policy
makers have called for a rate increase to tame inflation, a move
that could put further pressure on the  property market .  “The low level of buyer interest in many parts of the U.K.
continues to impact,” RICS spokesman, Ian Perry, said in a
statement. “With the prospect of forthcoming interest rate
rises and continued shortage of mortgage funding, it seems that
overall recovery for the housing market is still some way off.”  U.K. house prices rose 0.3 percent in February from a month
earlier, the Department for Communities and Local Government
said today on its website. Prices increased 0.7 percent from a
year earlier.  ‘North-South Divide’  The RICS report showed an index of new buyer enquiries, an
indicator of demand, dropped to minus 6 last month from minus 1
in February. A measure showing the number of new property
listings slipped 1 point to 4. In the quarter through March, a
gauge of sales per surveyor declined to 14.4, the lowest in 21
months, from 14.8 in the three months through February.  The report showed a “North-South divide” emerging across
U.K. regions, with  London  recording a positive reading of 17 and
the Yorkshire and Humberside area a reading of minus 51.  “London is becoming increasingly a port for money coming
from troubled countries abroad,” Benson Beard, a surveyor at
Bective Leslie Marsh’s Chelsea branch in the U.K. capital, said
in today’s report. “Competition for properties is becoming
intense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  