-- 
U.K.’s ‘Moderate’ Bank Report Calls for Extra Capital, Sales

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-04-11T15:49:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/u-k-bank-commission-said-to-say-banks-must-hold-10-core-tier-one-capital.html
The  Independent Commission on
Banking  recommended the U.K.’s biggest banks should boost
capital, implement plans for an orderly bankruptcy and erect
fire breaks around their consumer units in what it called
“moderate” proposals.  The commission acknowledged the concerns of some banks,
including  Barclays Plc (BARC) , by shying away from an enforced
separation of investment banking units in its 208-page interim
report published today. The largest banks should have a core
Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, of at
least 10 percent, the commission said. It also called for  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the country’s biggest mortgage lender, to
divest “substantially” more branches than the 600 already
being offered for sale to meet European Union state aid rules.  “Rather than pursuing more radical policies towards
capital or structure, the approach outlined is a combination of
more moderate measures,” the report said. “They nevertheless
entail costs to banks, some of which fall on the wider
economy.”  John Vickers , 52, chairman of the commission and former
 Bank of England  chief economist, was asked by the government
last year to make recommendations to boost stability and
competition in the British banking industry after the taxpayer
spent 65.8 billion pounds ($108 billion) rescuing  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Lloyds during the financial crisis.
Today’s publication opens the way to five months of lobbying
before the final report is handed to Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne and Business Secretary Vince Cable in September.  Shares Rise  Barclays rose 2.8 percent to 305.35 pence at the close of
London trading, while RBS gained 2.3 percent to 44.4 pence.
Lloyds was 0.3 percent higher at 62.4 pence and  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank, declined 0.7 percent to 660 pence.
The benchmark FTSE 100 Index was little changed.  “The universal banks such as RBS and Barclays fare best
from the report,” said Joseph Dickerson, a banking analyst at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank. “The key negative in the report
is the prospect of further branch divestitures at Lloyds which
is currently unquantifiable.”  Officials at Barclays, HSBC, RBS and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) 
declined to provide an immediate comment.  “We absolutely reject the notion that we bottled it,”
Vickers told reporters at a press conference in London today.
“In no sense at all are these half-measures. These are
absolutely far-reaching reforms,” he said.  ‘Vital’ Consumer Banking  The report “does deal in a very thorough way with how we
tackle this problem of banks that are too-big-to-fail and on a
taxpayer guarantee,” Business Secretary Vince Cable told the
British Broadcasting Corp. today. “I’m pretty sure we will come
up with a solution to that problem thanks to this report.”  Vickers recommended banks put their consumer operations
into a separately capitalized subsidiary within the holding
company to protect depositors and enhance stability. Such a
structure would be “less costly” for banks than full
separation, the report said. In the event of a bank collapse the
“vital” consumer banking operations could be kept running
while the investment banking activities are able to fail safely,
the report said.  “A retail ring-fence can preserve the possibility that the
wholesale/investment banking operations of a universal bank can
save the retail banking operations while curtailing the
possibility that they can sink them,” the report said.  Swiss Finish  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said last year
that all banks had to maintain a reserve of at least 7 percent
Core Tier 1 capital ratio. Banks that are considered too-big-to-
fail may be required to maintain 10 percent, people familiar
with the discussions said last month.  Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  said in January
the biggest U.K. banks could hold double the amount of capital
the Basel rules require without increasing their funding costs.
UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG,  Switzerland ’s two biggest
banks, were told by regulators in October they may need to hold
almost twice the amount of capital required by Basel.  “The banks’ cost of capital is going to go up because
investors are going to have to take the risk that we the
taxpayer have been taking,” Vickers told the BBC today. “That
would affect particularly the investment banking side of the
operations more than the retail banking side.”  The annual cost of the ring fencing will be
“significantly” lower than the 12 billion-pound ($20 billion)
to 15 billion-pound estimate already in the public domain, the
commission said.  Nothing Too Onerous  “There’s nothing in the report that’s too onerous for the
banks,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at Mediobanca SpA
in  London . “This is certainly not as tough as the man in the
street would have hoped. It looks like good news for all the
banks, other than Lloyds.”  Two of the U.K.’s biggest lenders, Barclays and HSBC, had
threatened to relocate their headquarters overseas if they were
forced to spin off their investment banking units. The report
said that its plans would instead help London.  “More resilient banks are therefore central to maintaining
London’s position as a leading global financial center, not a
threat to it,” the report said.  Lloyds plans to sell branches to comply with a European
Union ruling after receiving more than 20 billion pounds in
state aid should be “substantially enhanced,” to create a
“credible challenger,” the report said. Lloyds became the
U.K.’s biggest provider of current accounts, known in the U.S.
as checking accounts, and the biggest mortgage provider with its
takeover of HBOS Plc during the 2008 financial crisis.  Lloyds ‘Surprised’  The London-based bank’s Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio said in a statement that he was “surprised” by
the commission’s suggestion, which was “not in the interests of
our customers” and was based on limited evidence.  The commission “would not want to preclude the
possibility” of government-owned Northern Rock Plc being
combined with Lloyds’s asset sales, the report said.  Vickers also suggest making consumers’ bank deposits rank
senior to unsecured creditors to create a bigger buffer to
absorb losses. Contingent debt capital and debt which converts
into equity in the event of a bank crisis may lead to “improved
loss absorbency,” the report said.  David Fleming, national officer at trade union  Unite  which
represents some bank workers, described the report as
“tinkering at the edges.” The report was “another missed
opportunity to protect customers and staff from the corporate
greed which brought disaster to our economy,” he said in an e-
mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  