-- 
Community Health, Tenet Default Swaps Climb on Overbilling Suit

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-04-11T21:48:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/u-s-default-swaps-climb-as-corporate-earnings-season-begins.html
Credit-default swaps on  Community
Health Systems Inc. (CYH)  and  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  soared after
Tenet sued the hospital operator for allegedly overbilling
Medicare.  Contracts protecting the debt of Franklin, Tennessee-based
Community Health jumped 159.5 basis points to 612.6 basis
points, according to data provider CMA. The contracts cost 4.5
percent upfront, meaning investors would pay $450,000 initially
and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million of the company’s
debt. Swaps on Tenet climbed 71.9 basis points to 529.2.  Tenet, which rejected an unsolicited bid in November from
Community Health, seeks to force the company to disclose how it
admits patients to hospitals for “financial rather than
clinical purposes,” according to a Securities and Exchange
Commission filing today. Tenet filed the lawsuit in U.S.
District Court in  Dallas .  “It introduces uncertainty,” said Stephen Antczak, head
of U.S. credit strategy at Societe Generale SA in New York.
“Whether there is more regulatory scrutiny or not, this
certainly increases, relative to what it was in the past, the
possibility of more.”  Swaps on other health care-related companies rose, with
contracts on HCA Holdings Inc., which operates hospitals in the
U.S. and U.K., gaining 28.5 basis points to 388.5. Those on
 Universal Health Services Inc. (UHS)  jumped 17 basis points to 191,
the data show.  Tomi Galin, a spokeswoman for Franklin, Tennessee-based
Community Health, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  Level 3, Tyco  Contracts on  Level 3 Communications Inc. (LVLT)  dropped after the
unprofitable provider of broadband services agreed to buy  Global
Crossing Ltd. (GLBC)  for about $1.9 billion to expand its network and
reduce expenses. They fell 5.8 percentage points to 4.8 percent
upfront, CMA data show.  “This is what telecom has needed for a long time,” said
Donna Jaegers, an analyst at DA Davidson & Co. who recommends
buying both stocks. “You have way too many players.”  Swaps on  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  declined 3 basis points to
47.5. Schneider Electric SA is weighing a takeover offer for
Tyco that would make the French company the world’s biggest
maker of security systems, according to three people with
knowledge of the matter.  Index Rises  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. was little changed as earnings season began today with
Alcoa Inc.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.1 basis point to a mid-
price of 93.7 basis points as of 4:34 p.m. in  New York ,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, reported first-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates by one cent after
the company’s realized prices for the lightweight metal
increased. The credit swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  