-- 
U.S. Cancer Doctors Back Genetic Tests to Assess Lung Cancer Patients

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-04-11T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/u-s-cancer-doctors-back-genetic-tests-for-lung-tumor-patients.html
Patients with the most common form
of lung cancer should be genetically tested prior to treatment
to predict whether they might be helped by  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s
Tarceva and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Iressa tumor medicines, a U.S.
physicians’ group said.  The testing should be carried out on patients with advanced
 non-small-cell lung cancer  who are being considered for initial
treatment with drugs that target the EGFR gene mutation,
according to the  American Society of Clinical Oncology , which
has 30,000 members. The provisional opinion is based on the
result of five recent clinical trials, the group said today in
an e-mailed statement.  Patients with a mutant form of the EGFR gene may benefit
from both Tarceva and Iressa, studies have shown. Roche, of
Basel,  Switzerland , said in November it would develop a
companion diagnostic test for Tarceva to identify EGFR
mutations. AstraZeneca said in July 2009, after Iressa won
European approval, that it would market a test for the
mutations. Neither of the two medicines has won U.S. approval as
an initial therapy.  “Non-small-cell  lung cancer  is really a collection of
genetically distinct diseases,” Vicki Keedy, co-chair of a
panel set up by ASCO and assistant professor of medicine at
Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center in Nashville,  Tennessee , said in
the statement. “We want to treat patients with drugs that
target the molecular drivers of their specific tumors, rather
than using a one-size-fits-all approach.”  Drug Sales  AstraZeneca, based in  London , had revenue of $393 million
from Iressa last year. Roche’s Tarceva generated sales of 1.33
billion Swiss francs ($1.46 billion) in 2010.  Lung cancer is one of the most common cancers, striking
more than 1.35 million people worldwide each year. It’s the
leading cause of cancer death in the U.S., killing an estimated
157,300 a year, according to the  American Cancer Society .  The  American Society of Clinical Oncology  represents
medical professionals who care for cancer patients and focuses
on improving access to care and information as well as promoting
research into the treatment of tumors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  