-- 
U.S. Stocks Decline as Energy Shares Retreat Amid IMF Forecast

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-11T20:57:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-alcoa-rises-nyse-euronext-retreats.html
U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down for a third day, after oil
dropped from a 30-month high as the  International Monetary Fund 
cut its growth forecast for the world’s largest economy.  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) 
slumped at least 3.1 percent as crude oil fell 2.5 percent.
 General Motors Co. (GM)  retreated 2.4 percent after  China  said 2011
car sales may trail forecasts.  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  rise 3.3
percent as three people with knowledge of the matter told
Bloomberg News that  Schneider Electric SA (SU)  is weighing a takeover
offer for the maker of security systems.  The S&P 500 dropped 0.3 percent to 1,324.46 at 4 p.m. in
New York. The benchmark gauge had the longest losing streak in
almost a month. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 1.06
points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 12,381.11.  “There’s clearly a defensive tone,” said Bruce McCain,
who oversees $22 billion as chief investment strategist at the
private-banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland . “The IMF report
got people concerned,” he said. “The stock market is stuck,
trying to break the previous high. There’s hope that the first-
quarter earnings season will be good and that we’ll see more
takeovers. That would be good for stocks.”  The  S&P 500  has risen 5.3 percent in 2011 amid government
stimulus measures and as corporate profits beat analysts’
estimates for an eighth straight quarter. Earnings for S&P 500
companies rose 12 percent in the first quarter and will increase
17 percent this year, according to analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Crude Oil Slumps  Oil fell from a 30-month high after the International
Monetary Fund lowered its forecast for U.S. growth this year,
predicting higher  oil prices  and the pace of job gains will
restrain the recovery.  The world’s largest economy will expand 2.8 percent this
year, down from the 3 percent projected in January, the IMF said
today. Global gross domestic product will grow 4.4 percent in
2011, matching the previous estimate, according to the
Washington-based lender’s World Economic Outlook report.  Consumer spending , the biggest part of the  U.S. economy ,
faces headwinds from the rising cost of food and gasoline.
 Federal Reserve  officials last month said the expansion is on
“firmer footing,” lessening the need to extend a bond purchase
program beyond June.  ‘Lackluster’  “Recovery in the labor market remains lackluster,” the
IMF said in the report. “The drag on 2011 growth from oil price
increases largely offsets the boost from the Federal Reserve’s
unconventional policies and from stronger net exports.”  Energy shares in the S&P 500 dropped 1.9 percent, the
biggest decline among 10 industries. Occidental Petroleum fell
3.2 percent to $100.42.  Anadarko Petroleum  slumped 4.3 percent
to $81.11.  Automakers had the biggest drop in the S&P 500 within 24
industries, falling 2.2 percent. GM, which sold 28 percent of
its cars last year in China, slumped 2.4 percent to $30.77.  China’s passenger-car sales may grow at a slower pace this
year than was earlier estimated by a group of the nation’s
automakers after the government ended incentives for purchases
and raised fuel prices.  Sales growth in China this year may fail to reach a
previous estimate by the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers for a 10 percent to 15 percent increase, said Dong Yang, vice chairman of the association.  ‘Too Low’  “I am concerned about whether our growth rate is too
low,” Dong said at a briefing in Beijing yesterday. “Some
automakers’ profitability may be undermined this year and some
may even face difficulties in their operations.”  Tyco International climbed 3.3 percent to $48.72. Schneider
Electric is weighing a takeover offer for Tyco that would make
the French company the world’s biggest maker of security
systems, said three people with knowledge of the matter.
Schneider is working with bankers to help it assess a potential
acquisition of Tyco, said the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the matter is private.  Schneider’s efforts are at an early stage and no deal is
imminent, the people said. Tyco, based in Schaffhausen,
 Switzerland , had a market value of $22.3 billion as of April 8.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  slumped 0.8 percent to $17.77. After the close
of U.S. exchanges, the largest U.S. aluminum producer reported
first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates after prices
rose for the lightweight metal. The shares lost 2.9 percent to
$17.25 at 4:54 p.m. in New York.  Put Spreads  Investors should buy May S&P 500 puts or put spreads to
protect from U.S. stock declines or use straddles or strangles
to bet volatility will increase as earnings season begins, UBS
AG said. Fewer companies are likely to beat analysts’ estimates
for the past quarter while more may cut forecasts, equity
derivatives strategist Mitchell Revsine wrote in a report.  Higher commodity prices may cause companies to miss
estimates and reduce forecasts, and  Japan ’s tsunami will cause
some to reduce earnings guidance, Revsine wrote.  “Market volatility may increase during earnings season,”
the New York-based strategist said. “We recommend investors buy
May Index options for exposure to potential increased market
volatility through earnings and/or as a portfolio hedge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  