-- 
Mumbai Drivers’ 50-Year Wait May End With $2.5 Billion Bridge

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 
2011-04-11T04:18:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/mumbai-drivers-50-year-wait-may-end-with-2-5-billion-trans-harbour-bridge.html
Mumbai intends to begin work next
year on a bridge costing as much as 110 billion rupees ($2.5
billion) as it acts on an idea first proposed in the 1960s to
curb traffic jams.  The 22-kilometer “Mumbai Trans Harbour Link,” connecting
the island city with the mainland Navi Mumbai district, will
open before a new airport begins operations in 2014, Rahul
Asthana, commissioner of the  Mumbai Metropolitan Region
Development Authority , or MMRDA, said in an April 8 interview.
The bridge will have six lanes of highway and two rail tracks,
he said.  “The advantages of the  bridge  will be huge,” he said.
“Not only will it lead to faster connectivity to the new
airport, but also it will lead to the development of Navi Mumbai
and reduce pressure on the city.”  The first new road-bridge between  Mumbai  and the mainland
in more than a decade may ease jams that have hindered the city
of  18 million  people’s bid to challenge Shanghai and Dubai as a
business center. Journey times from the Nariman Point financial
district to Mumbai’s existing airport have risen by as much as
an hour in the past decade because of increasing number of cars,
according to Mumbai First, a public-private organization.  The city plans to issue a tender for a consultant to work
on the project soon, Asthana said. The consultant will help
assess ways of paying for the bridge, including allowing a
company to build and operate it, he said.  A construction tender will be issued next year and work may
start before the end of 2012, he said. The government has twice
previously issued tenders to build the bridge without finding a
contractor. The delays and higher commodity prices have caused
the estimated cost to almost triple from the 40 billion rupees
forecast in a 2004 government-backed study.  Traffic Jams  The wait for the new bridge and delays on other projects
have contributed to traffic jams in the city that’s home to
 India ’s central bank, its largest stock exchange and the
headquarters of  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , its biggest company by
market value.  “Mumbai’s infrastructure seems to be moving on a
treadmill,” said Killol Pandya, a Mumbai-based  fund manager  for
Daiwa Mutual Fund, a unit of  Japan ’s second-largest brokerage.
“It’s ambling along, but not going anywhere.”  An eight-lane bridge over Mahim Bay, connecting the
northern suburbs with midtown, opened in July, 2009, four and a
half years late and about four times over budget, according to
Times of India reports at the time.  Phased Construction  The new bridge may be built in two phases, each comprising
three lanes of highway and one railway line, Asthana said. This
would generate toll fees earlier and ensure that the bridge
opened ahead of the new airport, he said.  “The chief minister has made it very clear that the
project needs to be ready by the time the airport comes up,” he
said. The Navi Mumbai airport, which will initially be able to
handle 10 million passengers a year, was approved by the central
government’s environment ministry last year.  Capacity at the existing Mumbai airport, operated by GVK
Group, is also being more than doubled to 40 million passengers.
The city is also building a metro railway and a monorail to ease
congestion and help win investment.  Nariman Point  The new bridge will ease traffic by allowing cars to avoid
the city centre when traveling from the mainland to southern
areas of the city, including Nariman Point, home of the regional
offices of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. Vehicle ownership in India is rising as the nation’s
8.2 percent growth rate is boosting incomes, making cars
affordable to more people.  The bridge was first proposed in 1962, according to the
 website  of the Maharashtra State Road Development Corp., a state
government agency. Various other studies have followed,
including the one in 2004, which laid the groundwork for the
issuing of a build-operate tender.  “It’s only in the last five or so years that the bridge
was being thought of seriously,” said Asthana. “Before that,
there probably wasn’t the need.”  The competition following the 2004 study failed as the
government rejected the only two bids it received. The bidding
groups, led by Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services Ltd.
and  Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. (RELI) , both sought “unreasonable
concession periods,” according to the Maharashtra State Road
Development Corp. website. A tender issued in 2008 for a cash
contract to just build the bridge failed to attract any bids,
Asthana said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphillip3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 