-- 
UN Endorses Laws, Special Courts, Prisons for Somali Pirates

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-11T14:55:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/un-council-backs-new-laws-courts-prisons-for-somali-pirates.html
The United Nations  Security Council 
today endorsed creation of new laws, specialized courts and
prisons to curb the threat of piracy off the coast of Somalia.  The Security Council voted 15-0 to adopt a Russian-drafted
resolution that also supports the Transitional Federal
Government’s establishment of legal authority over “lawless
areas where land-based activities” of pirates are taking place.
The measure backs government efforts to halt illegal fishing and
toxic waste dumping off the coast.  “The worsening situation requires the international
community to adopt qualitatively new measures to combat it,”
Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said. “Today we have taken a
big step ahead to fight piracy.”  Pirates operating off the coast of Somalia carried out 15
of the 16 hijackings at sea this year, according to figures
released on March 24 by the International Maritime Bureau’s
 Piracy Reporting Center . There were 28 seized vessels with 576
hostages held by Somali pirates at that time, the bureau said.  Piracy has flourished near  Somalia , where a two-decade long
war has left the country with no effective government and a
moribund economy. The total cost of piracy, including ransoms,
insurance premiums, re-routing ships, security equipment and
naval forces was estimated at as much as $12 billion last year,
Louisville, Colorado-based  One Earth Future Foundation  said in
January.  Cooperate in Investigations  The UN resolution asks all nations to make piracy a
criminal offense, to cooperate in investigations and share
evidence, to implement anti-money laundering laws, and to
facilitate the transfer of suspected pirates.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon is asked to report to the
Security Council within two months on steps needed to create an
“extraterritorial Somali specialized anti-piracy court.” Such
a court has been proposed for Tanzania, with others to be
established in the semi-autonomous regions of Somaliland and
Puntland.  Ban is also asked to report within six months on “the
protection of Somali natural resources and waters, and on
alleged fishing and illegal dumping, including of toxic
substances, off the coast of Somalia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  