-- 
Hungary Drugmakers Drop on Tax, Leading BUX to 2nd Day Slump

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-04-11T15:36:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/hungary-drugmakers-drop-on-tax-leading-bux-to-2nd-day-slump-1-.html
Hungarian pharmaceutical companies
led a drop in the nation’s stock index after saying they are
ready to accept a new special tax.  The BUX index slipped for a second day, losing 0.2 percent
to 24,375.53 by the 5 p.m. close in Budapest. Gedeon  Richter
Nyrt ., the country’s biggest drugmaker that has a 17 percent
weighting on the BUX gauge, fell as much as 3 percent and closed
1 percent weaker at 38,130 forint, the lowest level this month.
Egis Nyrt., the drugmaker owned by Laboratoires Servier,
retreated 2.1 percent to 18,600 forint, a fifth day of declines
and the lowest close since March 8.  Companies will agree to a new levy on the condition the
extra revenue is used to boost the wages of doctors and nurses,
Erik Bogsch, head of the Hungarian Association of Drugmakers,
said in a statement today. The stocks first fell earlier today
after the Napi Gazdasag newspaper reported the government may
increase the tax on the industry.  “The key question is whether they can continue to deduct
this from research and development costs,” Akos Herczenik, a
Budapest-based analyst at Raiffeisen International Bank AG, said
by phone. “If they can’t, then this will have a brutal impact
on Egis and a smaller effect on Richter.”  The government said last month it will overhaul the drug
subsidy system as part of measures to reduce the biggest debt
burden among the European Union’s eastern members. The changes
will be aimed at cutting state spending without increasing the
price of medicines, according to document distributed to
reporters on March 1. The Cabinet planned to start talks on the
new regulations from this month and present fresh legislation by
July 1, according to the document.  The forint weakened 0.4 percent to 264.9 per euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  