-- 
Vickers Report ‘Spikes Guns’ of Banks Threatening to Quit London

-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-04-11T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/vickers-report-spikes-guns-of-banks-threatening-to-quit-london.html
Independent Commission on Banking 
Chairman  John Vickers  may have neutralized threats by lenders
including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to quit London.  Commission Chairman John Vickers yesterday recommended the
U.K.’s biggest banks erect fire breaks around their consumer
units in what he termed a “moderate” report. He shied away
from forcing banks to separate their investment and commercial
banking operations completely.  “This does spike the guns of the big banks who have said
they might be off because the U.K.’s regulatory environment is
so horrific,” said Bob Penn, financial regulation partner at
law firm Allen & Overy LLP in London. The ICB “decided that the
reform agenda should be primarily limited to saving retail
banking rather than the wider industry. Selfishly speaking, that
is good for London as a financial center.”  British banks threatened to relocate abroad in the face of
increased regulation.  John Varley , Barclays’s then chief
executive officer, said in September that the bank would
consider moving if Vickers called for the full separation of
investment banking and retail banking, as did  Stuart Gulliver ,
now CEO of HSBC.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  CEO Peter Sands said in
August it may move its headquarters out of the U.K. if the
government raised taxes.  “One needs to cast a very skeptical eye on remarks of that
kind,” Vickers said at a press conference in London yesterday.
“There will be a whole host of practical obstacles, legal
obstacles, and I think quite important are reputational
obstacles.”  ‘Jurisdiction Hop’  Customers would be likely to remove their deposits from
banks seeking to “do a jurisdiction hop” because the banks
would lose the U.K. government guarantee on their deposits,
Vickers told reporters.  “They might well think if the U.K. government isn’t
guaranteeing my deposits any more, they might not feel anything
like as happy keeping my business with that bank,” he said.  HSBC spokesman  Paul Harris  referred to a March 6 statement
in which Gulliver and Chairman  Douglas Flint  said “it is our
preference to remain” based in London. Giles Croot, a spokesman
for Barclays declined to comment. Standard Chartered spokesman
Jon Tracey wasn’t immediately available to comment.  “The banks will be breathing a sigh of relief,” said  Paul Mumford , a  fund manager  at Cavendish Asset Management in London.
“Vickers and his colleagues have heeded bankers’ warnings and
have shied away from recommending a total split of retail and
investment banking operations, the outcome banks feared most.”  Shares Climb  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , the biggest government-
controlled lender, and Barclays, Britain’s third-biggest lender,
rose in London trading. Barclays climbed rose 2.8 percent to
305.4 pence while RBS advanced 2.3 percent to 44.4 pence. HSBC,
 Europe ’s biggest bank, declined 0.7 percent to 660 pence.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest provider of
checking accounts, advanced 0.3 pence to 62.4 pence. The
commission said the London-based should divest “substantially”
more branches than the 600 already being offered for sale to
meet European state aid rules.  Vickers recommended the U.K.’s biggest banks boost capital,
implement plans for an orderly bankruptcy and separately
capitalize consumer units.  The largest banks should have a core Tier 1 capital ratio,
a measure of financial strength, of at least of 10 percent, the
commission said. Barclays and HSBC’s ratios are already
estimated to reach 9.9 percent and 10.5 percent respectively in
2012, according to  Christopher Wheeler , a banking analyst at
Mediobanca SpA in  London .  Swiss Finish  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said last year
all banks had to maintain a 7 percent Core Tier 1 capital ratio.
Lenders that are too-big-to-fail may be required to maintain 10
percent, people familiar with the talks said last month.  UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, Switzerland’s two
biggest banks, were told by regulators in October they may need
to hold almost twice the amount of capital required by Basel.
 Bank of England  policy maker  David Miles  said in January the
biggest U.K. banks could hold twice the amount of capital
the Basel rules require without increasing their funding costs.  Vickers recommended banks put their consumer operations
into a separately-capitalized subsidiary within the holding
company to protect depositors and enhance stability.  Such a structure would be “less costly” for banks than
full separation, the report said. In the event of a bank
collapse the “vital” consumer banking operations could be kept
running while the  investment banking  activities are able to fail
safely, the report said. The annual cost of ring fencing U.K.
retail lending units will be “significantly” less than the 12
billion-pound ($20 billion) to 15 billion-pound estimate already
in the public domain, the commission said.  Relocation Fears Receding  Lenders’ investment banking operations will still benefit
from a lower cost of funding they derive from taking customer
deposits because they will be in the same holding company,
Wheeler said.  “The devil is in the detail and there will be a cost, but
it will be seen as manageable,” Wheeler said. “Fears of banks
relocating will recede.”  Bank chiefs started to tone down threats to leave London
after Vickers said in a Jan. 22 speech that he wouldn’t
recommend splitting up banks’ consumer and investment units.  “London is where we want to be,” Barclays CEO  Robert Diamond  said on March 30. HSBC’s Flint has enumerated London’s
advantages over rivals. Mike Rees,  Standard Chartered ’s head of
corporate banking, in January praised the British capital’s
“great neutrality.”  Better than Feared  Vickers, 52, a former Bank of England chief economist, was
asked by the government last year to devise proposals to boost
stability and competition in the British banking industry after
the taxpayer spent 65.8 billion pounds rescuing RBS and Lloyds
during the financial crisis. The publication begins five months
of lobbying before the final report is handed to Chancellor of
the Exchequer George Osborne and Business Secretary Vince Cable
in September.  “On its own, it was better than we feared,” said Gareth Hunt, a banking analyst at Investec Securities in London. “But
we have to remember it comes on top of the bank levy,
compensation rules, and the mortgage market review. In that
light, it’s another brick in the wall. It all adds up.”  Vickers said that the proposals would be good for the City
of London.  “Especially for a country which is so engaged in
international finance, safeguards for retail banking, on which
we all rely in everyday life, are common sense,” Vickers said.
The report “should make the City no less attractive as a global
financial center.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  