-- 
Voting Fiasco Shows Value of Hitting ‘Save’: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-04-11T23:00:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/voting-farce-shows-value-of-hitting-save-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
One thing we should expect from our
government is certainty about who won an election and, within a
reasonable margin of error, by how much.  Government famously failed that test in the 2000
presidential election and did so again last week in a down-to-
the-wire election for a seat on the Wisconsin Supreme Court. The
discovery, two days after the election, of 14,000 missing votes
changed the likely outcome of a race that had become a national
referendum on Governor  Scott Walker  and his slashing of pay,
benefits and bargaining rights of public-sector workers.  We run elections in this country in a way ripe for
distrust: Imagine allowing A-Rod’s agent to be an umpire in a
Yankees-Red Sox game. When votes just turn up in a high-stakes
election, we’re suspicious, cynical and, in the worst case,
alienated from our own democracy.  Until the 14,000 uncounted votes showed up, the Wisconsin
court election was notable mostly for the outsized level of
interest. Turnout was at presidential-primary levels and
spending was through the roof, with $3.5 million spent on ads
alone, according to the Brennan Center for Justice. JoAnne Kloppenburg, an unknown assistant attorney general, was given
almost no chance of winning prior to the Walker controversy. By
Election Day she seemed to have pulled even with the incumbent
justice, David Prosser, a conservative aligned with Walker.  Jaws of Defeat  The vote seesawed in the hours after polls closed. The next
day, Kloppenburg declared victory with a 204-vote lead. But
before she could pop the champagne cork, Waukesha County Clerk
Kathy Nickolaus, a Republican Party loyalist with a checkered
electoral past, found the 14,000 uncounted votes, which snatched
victory for Prosser from the jaws of defeat. Of the discovered
cache, 11,059 went to Prosser, 3,456 to Kloppenburg.  The amended count put Prosser’s victory ever so helpfully
just outside the bounds of a state-financed recount. That
reminds me of the instruction that President  John F. Kennedy 
jokingly attributed to his father, Joseph, regarding the 1960
 West Virginia  primary: “Don’t buy one more vote than necessary.
I’ll be damned if I’ll pay for a landslide.”  There may be nothing wrong here, but it smells bad. As long
as we’re going to put partisans in charge of ballots, the
results should be as reliable, as free from a whiff of human
interference, as technologically possible.  Not so with Nickolaus, who brings to mind former  Florida 
Secretary of State Katherine Harris, the wealthy diva from a
prominent banking family who seemed all too eager to do the Bush
family’s bidding in the 2000 presidential recount.  Worked Under Winner  Nickolaus, a co-owner of Musky Mike’s Bait & Tackle shop in
Okauchee,  worked for  the state Assembly’s Republican caucus when
Prosser, as Assembly speaker, oversaw the caucus.  When all four of the  Wisconsin  legislature’s Democratic and
Republican caucus groups were accused of doing campaign work on
government time, Nickolaus was given immunity from prosecution.
According to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, a 2002 criminal
complaint against the Assembly speaker at that time, Scott
Jensen, said Nickolaus developed a computer software program
that was used by state officials to track donations. Jensen
ultimately  pleaded guilty  to a misdemeanor ethics charge.  Elected  Waukesha County clerk  in 2002, Nickolaus put in
place  her own  counting system. As long as elections were won by
wide margins, her methods didn’t attract attention. In 2006,
however, Nickolaus posted returns that temporarily skewed
results in a primary for an Assembly seat. After that, the
county’s technical staff wanted to review her approach. She
didn’t cooperate. The county ordered an  audit .  Smirking Clerk  At a hearing three months ago to review the findings, the
Waukesha County Board chairman  accused Nickolaus  of smirking
while saying she would take “into consideration” the audit
committee’s recommendations to use technology like that employed
elsewhere in the state.  No wonder she couldn’t keep a straight face: She had no
intention of modernizing. Her mistake last week occurred while
using a personal computer with old software, shared passwords
that permit multiple users and a dial-up modem -- a system that
makes the butterfly ballot in  Palm Beach , Florida, look
sophisticated.  In an emotional press conference, her hair shadowing her
face like a perp in a hoodie, Nickolaus explained that “human
error” caused the undercount, as she’d forgotten to hit
“save” after entering totals from the city of Brookfield.
Which human’s intransigence made that error possible?  Tracking Votes  In a time when online marketers can see what kind of shoes
I like and tailor their pitches accordingly, shouldn’t there be
technology that knows 14,000 votes are missing before two days
elapse? In a toxic political environment, with a lack of trust
on both sides, we don’t need an election clerk going rogue.  A unanimous U.S. Supreme Court decision in 2006  noted  that
fraud “drives honest citizens out of the democratic process.”
Like a bad call that spoils the  World Series , a messy counting
process soils an election. Prosser likely won fair and square,
but for a lot of folks in Wisconsin, it doesn’t feel that way.
Democracy is messy enough; the act of counting votes should be
clean.  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  