-- 
Wal-Mart Brings Back 8,500 Products in Bid to End U.S. Slump

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-04-11T13:43:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/wal-mart-brings-back-8-500-products-in-bid-to-end-u-s-slump.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, is restoring 8,500 products to store shelves
to help reverse a sales slump in the U.S.  Stores will add 11 percent more products on average, with
“It’s Back” flags on the items, the Bentonville, Arkansas-
based company said today. New pasta, beverages and snacks have
already arrived, and fresh groceries, electronics, sporting
goods and apparel also will reach shelves this year.  Wal-Mart is kicking off a new ad campaign and renewing its
focus on pledges to match local rivals’ prices, part of Chief
Executive Officer Mike Duke’s bid to stem seven quarters of
sales declines at U.S. stores open at least a year. Duke also is
opening smaller Express stores to recapture market share lost to
dollar-store chains.  “Wal-Mart is making progress with their remerchandising,
and the launch of the ad campaign shows that most items to be
returned are now back in the stores,”  Colin McGranahan , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in an e-mail. “Whether
that will be enough to lure disenchanted customers back remains
to be seen.” The New York-based analyst rates the shares
“market perform.”  Wal-Mart’s supercenters each carry about 142,000 items,
according to its website. The retailer’s sales at namesake U.S.
stores account for almost two-thirds of its more than $420
billion in total revenue.  At an investor conference last month, U.S. chief  Bill Simon 
said he had seen “an improving positive trend” in sales from
the previous month. The retailer predicted the movement in
first-quarter fiscal 2012 comparable-store sales in the U.S.
would be between a 2 percent drop and little change. Wal-Mart
plans to report first-quarter results in May.  Price Checks  The retailer also said it’s increasing price checks against
rivals, working with suppliers to cut costs and simplifying the
ad-matching guarantee. The company’s “reputation was founded on
the principle of providing low prices day-in and day-out on the
broadest assortment of merchandise,” Wal-Mart Chief
Merchandising Officer Duncan Mac Naughton said in the statement.  Duke promoted Mac Naughton to his new post in January, the
latest move in a senior management overhaul that’s taken place
over the past twelve months. His predecessor,  John Fleming , had
removed thousands of items from stores in 2009 in an attempt to
reduce clutter and focus on faster-growing product categories.  Wal-Mart fell 8 cents to $52.46 at 9:42 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares had fallen 2.6
percent this year before today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  