-- 
Westfield Retail Seeks A$500 Million in Debut Sale of Bonds

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-04-11T00:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/westfield-retail-trust-starts-marketing-at-least-a-500-million-of-bonds.html
Westfield Retail Trust (WRT)  started
marketing at least A$500 million ($529 million) of bonds in the
 Australia  and New Zealand mall owner’s inaugural debt sale after
being split off from Westfield Group last year.  The company is seeking to price the notes, maturing in
October 2016, to yield about 120 basis points more than the swap
rate, according to an e-mailed statement from Commonwealth Bank
of Australia, which is helping to manage the sale.  Westfield Group announced the creation of the retail trust
in November to take 50 percent stakes in its 54 Australian and
New Zealand shopping centers, allowing the main entity to pursue
more developments and acquisitions. It said at the time that
Westfield Retail may sell bonds to help refinance bank debt.  Westfield Retail is rated A+ by  Standard & Poor’s , the
fifth-highest grade and two rungs higher than  Westfield Group (WDC) ,
which is rated A-.  It had A$2.8 billion in bank loan facilities as of Dec. 31,
including A$1 billion split between three- and five-year
facilities, and A$895 million of bridge loans, according to a
regulatory filing.  The trust part-owns assets including the Sydney City center
that opened in October, Westfield Bondi Junction, also in Sydney,
and the Doncaster Center in  Melbourne , according to its  website .  A sale of A$500 million of bonds would match the biggest
non-financial corporate deal in Australia this year, a sale of
five-year 6.75 percent notes by Woolworths Ltd., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., National
Australia Bank Ltd. and Westpac Banking Corp. are also helping
manage Westfield Retail’s debt sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 