-- 
WexTrust Co-Founder Byers Sentenced to More Than 13 Years for Ponzi Scheme

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-11T21:04:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/wextrust-co-founder-byers-sentenced-to-13-years-four-months.html
WexTrust Capital LLC’s co-founder
Steven Byers was sentenced to 13 years and four months in prison
for operating a Ponzi scheme that authorities said defrauded
investors of about $255 million.  “I get the sense that Mr. Byer was not taking the money
from investors and putting it in his own pocket but taking money
to cover other investors,” U.S. Circuit Judge Denny Chin in  New
York  said today.  Chin, who presided over the case, directed Byers to be
taken into custody immediately to begin serving his prison term.  Byers and firm co-founder Joseph Shereshevsky were charged
in 2008, accused of repeatedly lying to investors in their now-
collapsed real estate fund. Many of the victims of the fraud
were members of the Orthodox Jewish community.  Byers, 48, the chief executive of Chicago-based WexTrust,
pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud last April.
Prosecutors said Byers should receive a term of 12 1/2 to 15 1/2
years in prison. Lawyers for Byers sought an unspecified lesser
term and asked Chin to give him credit for serving nine months
in federal custody and 18 months of home confinement Byers has
already served.  During his guilty plea, Byers admitted that he’d lied to
investors when he said the firm raised $9.2 million that
WexTrust owned seven properties it planned to lease to the U.S.
government.  ‘No Excuse’  “I can’t apologize enough to this court, my government and
the investors for what I did; there is no excuse,” Byers said
in court before sentencing today. “I just wanted to show this
company so much that my sense of worth was in it and I turned
into a liar. I lied to justify my actions.”  After three victims of the fraud scheme urged Chin to
impose a long prison term, Byers addressed them, saying, “You
have every right to still be mad at me. I absolutely feel your
anger. My failure is that I was so lax, I allowed this to
happen.”  WexTrust had at least 1,100 investors in the U.S. and
abroad, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said in a
related lawsuit. Byers owned 60 percent of the firm;
Shereshevsky, 20 percent, the SEC said. WexTrust owned at least
120 entities formed to acquire real estate interests and
conducted at least 60 private placements since 2005, the SEC
said.  A private placement is a negotiated sale in which
securities are sold directly to investors rather than through a
public offering. In a  Ponzi scheme , money from new investors is
used to pay earlier ones.  Phony Documents  When Byers pleaded guilty, he told Chin that beginning in
2006, he lied to investors in  Chicago , New York, and Norfolk,
 Virginia , about the supposed government leases and sent them
phony documents. A motive was to raise additional money from
investors, he said.  “It involved the purchase of limited partnerships” in
real estate ventures, said Byers, of Oakbrook,  Illinois , who
also agreed to forfeit $9.2 million to the U.S. as part of the
plea.  Byers and Shereshevsky were initially charged with the $9.2
million property fraud. Prosecutors later added allegations that
they defrauded investors of about $255 million by claiming they
planned to buy residential and commercial properties in
Illinois,  North Carolina ,  Wisconsin , New York and elsewhere.  Instead, they paid investor returns and financed unrelated
projects, the government said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Byers, 08-cr-1092, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  