-- 
Woodside Shares Rise on Speculation BHP Billiton Will Make a Takeover Bid

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-04-11T01:58:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/woodside-shares-rise-on-speculation-bhp-billiton-will-make-a-takeover-bid.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  climbed to
the highest in almost 20 months in Sydney trading on speculation
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  will make a A$46 billion ($48.6 billion) bid
for the Australian oil and gas producer.  BHP is in talks to buy  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s 24 percent
stake in Woodside and make a full takeover offer, the  Sunday
Times  reported in London yesterday, saying that UBS AG is
advising Shell on its options. BHP would swap some of Woodside’s
assets, including the Sunrise natural-gas field, for Shell’s
holding, the newspaper said, citing people it didn’t identify.  Woodside shares gained as much as 7.6 percent, taking the
advance since its March 15 low to 25 percent, on speculation of
a bid from BHP and an increase in gas demand following  Japan ’s
nuclear crisis. BHP and Tokyo-based Mitsui & Co. and  Mitsubishi
Corp. (8058)  may be potential buyers of Shell’s stake or of the entire
company, Credit Suisse Group AG said in an April 7 report.  “If BHP buy the whole of Woodside and bolt it together
with their own assets, I think they could look to make $3 or $4
billion worth of synergies out of this deal,”  John Meyer , an
analyst at Fairfax IS in London, said yesterday in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “There is a lot to be gained here for
shareholders of BHP, and in fact on both sides.”  Bond Risk  Woodside traded at A$49.70 at 11:26 a.m. in Sydney. BHP
climbed 0.9 percent to A$48.20. The company said separately it
completed the A$6 billion off-market share buyback of 147
million shares today.  The cost of protecting BHP’s bonds from non-payment rose,
with its credit-default swaps jumping 10 basis points to 78.5
basis points as of 9:07 a.m. in Sydney, according to  Australia  &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. That’s the highest since Jan. 20
and would be the largest daily increase since Aug. 18, the day
the world’s biggest mining company made a $40 billion bid for
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., CMA prices show.  Contracts on Woodside dropped 10 basis points to 95.5, ANZ
prices show. That’s the biggest decline since Aug. 18, and the
lowest level since May 4 last year, according to CMA.  “We don’t comment on market speculation,”  Amanda Buckley ,
a spokeswoman for BHP, Billiton Ltd. said by phone from
 Melbourne . Linda Hammer, a spokeswoman for Perth-based Woodside,
and Penny Walsh, a spokeswoman for Shell in Australia, declined
to comment. A spokesman for UBS couldn’t be reached.  ‘Hands Off’ Woodside  Western Australia Premier  Colin Barnett  today voiced his
opposition to a takeover of Woodside. “If Woodside were taken
over your industry would lose something,” Barnett told
delegates at a conference in Perth. “My message is ‘Keep your
hands off Woodside.’” The company is “the face” of the
state’s oil and gas industry and should remain independent, he
said.  Former treasurer  Peter Costello  blocked a $3.2 billion bid
by Shell in 2001 to take control of Woodside, citing national
interest.  A A$46 billion bid would represent a 23 percent premium to
Woodside’s value, in line with the average premium paid for oil
and gas assets worldwide in deals announced in the past 12
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Opposition from regulators and investors has led BHP to
abandon bids for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. and Rio Tinto
Group, as well as a planned iron-ore venture with Rio, costing
the company at least $800 million since Chief Executive Officer
 Marius Kloppers  was appointed in May 2007.  Talks Intensified  While talks on Woodside have intensified in recent weeks,
BHP is concerned that securing the support of Woodside’s
management may be too costly, the Sunday Times said.  “My view is it’s dilutive on a valuation basis, Woodside
trades on a much higher multiple,” said Rob Bishop, who helps
manage the equivalent of $3 billion including BHP shares at
Investors Mutual Ltd. in Sydney. “But it’s a good asset, and if
you look out five years, it would probably work out to be a good
acquisition.”  More than half of BHP’s assets are in Australia, where the
resources industry is undergoing its biggest boom in a century
as Chinese demand for coal and iron ore climbs. Kloppers said in
February he’s still considering acquisitions after completed
takeovers in the  mining industry  reached $80.7 billion in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Woodside could exchange stakes in liquefied natural gas
projects for Shell’s remaining shares in the company, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch wrote in a March 18 report.  Asian LNG  Under such a deal, Woodside might swap a 30 percent
interest in the Pluto LNG project, an 18.5 percent stake in the
Browse venture and 20.7 percent of the Sunrise development,
according to the report.  “Asian LNG prices are the highest in the world, and
Australia, being in relatively close proximity to  Asia , is well
positioned to sell to that market,” said Jason Teh of Investors
Mutual. “It comes down to price, but broadly, Woodside would be
a good fit.”  Chevron Corp., the second-largest U.S. energy company, said
yesterday that Shell had agreed to acquire a stake in its
proposed A$20 billion Wheatstone gas project in  Western
Australia . Shell will gain 6.4 percent of the LNG plants and 8
percent of the fields off northwest Australia that will supply
the Wheatstone development, Chevron said in a statement, without
disclosing financial terms.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI spot index of 24 commodities
rose 20 percent last year and has increased another 20 percent
this year.  Woodside ‘Proactive’  Woodside, Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer,
is being “proactive” with Shell about the remaining shares
after The Hague-based Shell sold a 10 percent stake in November,
Woodside Chief Executive Officer Don Voelte said in February.
Shell sold the stock for about $3.3 billion and its remaining
holding was worth about A$9 billion at the close on April 8,
when the market value was A$37.5 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Woodside may sell stakes in its Australian gas ventures to
Japanese companies and use the proceeds to buy back Shell’s
portion, Credit Suisse said April 7. It’s doubtful companies
would be willing to acquire Shell’s holding as a “passive
investment,” and Asian buyers would rather have LNG asset
stakes than an interest in the company, the analysts said.  BHP’s dual listing in Sydney and  London  would mean the
company would probably need the approval of Australia’s Foreign
Investment Review Board for its offer to be successful, the
Sunday Times said.  Credit-default swap contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities if a borrower fails to
meet its debt agreements. A drop signals improving perceptions
of creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  