-- 
World Bank Says Employment, Better Security Will Break Cyclical Violence

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-04-11T03:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/world-bank-says-jobs-security-will-break-cyclical-violence.html
Countries trapped in recurring
outbreaks of civil war and violence should invest in  job
creation  and the re-establishment of the rule of law to break
the pattern, according to the  World Bank .  “Some 1.5 billion people live in countries affected by
repeated cycles of political and criminal violence,” the
Washington-based lender said in an e-mailed statement
accompanying its  World Development Report  2011 titled Conflict,
Security and Development. “To break these cycles, it is crucial
to strengthen legitimate national institutions and governance in
order to provide citizen security, justice and jobs.”  Popular uprisings that spread across the Middle East and
North Africa this year, leading to the overthrow of leaders in
Tunisia and  Egypt , were fueled by high unemployment, poverty,
rising food prices and social injustices.  Ivory Coast  is also
emerging from a month-long civil war and a decade of armed
conflict, while  Democratic Republic of Congo  remains awash with
armed groups, the remnants of wars over the past 20 years.  “There are places where fragile states can seek help to
build an army, but we do not yet have similar resources for
building police forces or corrections systems,” World Bank
President Robert Zoellick said in the report. “We need to put
greater emphasis on early projects to create jobs, especially
through the private sector.”  While national governments must lead the way, overseas
donors should help by stepping up funding and coordinating aid
with each other to support the countries’ plans, he said.  Progress in post-conflict nations is possible within a
generation, or about 25 years, Sarah Cliffe, director of the
World Development Report, said in a video-conference with
reporters from  Washington  on April 7.  In the southern African nation of  Mozambique , where a 15-
year civil war ended in 1992, living conditions have improved
after steps were taken toward national reconciliation, she said.  “The World Development Report tells us that the benefits
of jobs go beyond income, in terms of giving young people an
occupation and a stake in life,” Cliffe said in an interview.
“The bank is investing in more knowledge and financing to
support job creation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 