-- 
Yellen Says Surge in Commodity Costs Doesn't Warrant Fed Stimulus Reversal

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-04-11T18:42:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-11/yellen-says-surge-in-commodity-costs-doesn-t-warrant-fed-stimulus-reversal.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said the increase in food and fuel costs will have only a
temporary impact on inflation and  consumer spending  and warrants
no reversal of record monetary stimulus.  “The surge in commodity prices over the past year appears
to be largely attributable to a combination of rising global
demand and disruptions in global supply,” Yellen said today in
a speech in New York. “These developments seem unlikely to have
persistent effects on consumer inflation or to derail the
economic recovery and hence do not, in my view, warrant any
substantial shift in the stance of monetary policy.”  Yellen is the second top lieutenant of Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to suggest this month that the Fed will complete its
$600 billion of bond purchases aimed at boosting growth. William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ,
said April 1 that the recovery is “still tenuous,” while
Bernanke said April 4 that higher commodity prices may have a
“transitory” effect on inflation.  At the same time, “we cannot be complacent about the
stability of inflation expectations,” Yellen, 64, said to the
 Economic Club of New York . The Fed would have to tighten credit
should commodity prices spark a “wage-price spiral” that sends
underlying inflation up at an “unacceptable pace,” she said.  Dollar Stronger Versus Euro  Treasuries rose, with the 10-year note’s yield declining to
3.57 percent at 2:24 p.m. in New York from 3.58 on April 8. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent to 1,327.04, and
the dollar was unchanged against the euro at $1.4437.  Once the Fed decides to pare its balance sheet, it would
need to sell securities at a “gradual and predictable” pace to
“mitigate the uncertainty” from selling longer-term assets.
“I would expect such sales when they came to put some pressure
on financial markets,” she said.  “I would not expect to see a significant financial-market
reaction to the conclusion” of the $600 billion in purchases,
Yellen said.  The Journal of Commerce-ECRI Commodity Price Index today
reached the highest since at least 1985, indicating an
annualized growth rate of 38.7 percent. The average U.S. price
of regular gasoline increased 23 percent to $3.77 a gallon this
year on higher oil costs stoked by unrest in the Middle East and
 Africa .  Fastest Growth  Developing nations will grow 6.5 percent this year and next
while advanced economies will expand 2.4 percent in 2011 and 2.6
percent in 2012, the  International Monetary Fund  forecast today
in its World Economic Outlook report. Among major emerging
markets, the fastest growth will be in China, which will expand
9.6 percent in 2011 and 9.5 percent next year, according to IMF
projections.  Yellen’s remarks show how she and top Fed officials
including Bernanke are reluctant to follow the lead of their
counterparts at the  European Central Bank , who are tightening
credit in an effort to combat inflation.  Yellen used the word “elevated” four times in her speech
in referring to the 8.8 percent jobless rate. She used
“transitory” five times in referring to the effects of
commodity prices on broader inflation, the same word the policy-
setting  Federal Open Market Committee  used in its March 15
statement.  The FOMC, which next meets April 26-27 in Washington, said
at its last session March 15 that the economy is on a “firmer
footing” and unanimously affirmed plans to buy the Treasuries
through June.  What Comes Next  Policy makers were divided when it came to discussing what
comes next, with a “few” officials saying tighter credit may
be warranted this year, while a “few others noted that
exceptional policy accommodation could be appropriate beyond
2011,” minutes of the meeting released April 5 showed.  “There can be no question that sometime down the road, as
the recovery gathers steam, it will become necessary for the
FOMC to withdraw the monetary policy accommodation we have put
in place,” Yellen said today. Leaving monetary policy “broadly
unchanged” may be the best response to “shocks” in commodity
prices, Yellen said.  Dudley, 58, speaking in Tokyo earlier today, said the Fed
“shouldn’t be overly enthusiastic about tightening monetary
policy too early” because the U.S. labor market is likely to
have “excess slack” at least through the end of 2012.  Also today, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President
 Charles Evans  said in an economic commentary that increases in
commodity prices should cause only a “modest” adjustment of
monetary policy.  ‘A Big Way’  In Yellen’s scenario, “it could be a long time before the
Fed starts to reverse itself in a big way,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , and a former Fed researcher.  “Bernanke, Dudley and Yellen’s positions seem pretty firm
at this point,” he said. “It’s going to take quite a bit of
data moving in a direction that they’re not currently
anticipating to get them to move.”  The ECB last week raised its benchmark interest rate by a
quarter percentage point to 1.25 percent. The  Bank of England 
kept its main rate at a record low of 0.5 percent. Central banks
in the largest emerging-market economies, including  China ,
 Brazil  and  India , have been raising rates this year.  The  U.S. economy  doesn’t seem to be experiencing the kind
of “sharp rebound” that usually follows a deep recession,
Yellen said. The construction industry is hampered by vacant
homes and “remains in the doldrums;” spending by state and
local governments “seems likely to remain limited by tight
budget conditions;” and in the labor market, “job
opportunities are still relatively scarce,” she said.  Preferred Measure  In releases since the Fed meeting, the Commerce Department
reported that the central bank’s preferred price measure, which
excludes food and fuel, was up 0.9 percent from a year earlier
in February, the most since October. Including all items, prices
rose 1.6 percent, compared with a 1.2 percent 12-month increase
through January, the biggest monthly increase since December
2009.  The economy added a greater-than-forecast 216,000 jobs in
March, and the  unemployment rate  fell to the lowest level in
more than two years, marking a drop of a full percentage point
over four months. At the same time,  service industries  expanded
less than forecast in March, a sign the biggest part of the
economy is trailing gains in manufacturing.  “I see weak demand for labor as the predominant
explanation of why the rate of unemployment remains elevated and
rates of resource utilization more generally are still well
below normal levels,” Yellen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  