-- ‘The Artist’ Leads 2012 Golden Globes With Six Nominations
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2011-12-15T21:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/-cars-2-puss-in-boots-are-nominated-for-golden-globe-animation-awards.html
“The Artist,” Weinstein Co.’s
silent, black-and-white film about an actor with the transition
to talkies, was nominated for six Golden Globe awards as
Hollywood prepares to honor its best work of the year.  “The Descendants,” from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Searchlight, and
DreamWorks Pictures’ “The Help” each received five nominations
including best drama, the Hollywood Foreign Press Association
said today at a press conference telecast by NBC from  Beverly
Hills ,  California .  Nominations signal probable candidates for Academy Awards,
Hollywood’s top honor, and often lead to increased box-office
and DVD sales. The five nominated to receive the Globe for
2010’s best drama also received best-picture Oscar nominations.  “There’s no better indicator of how the potential Oscar
race will look,” said  Paul Dergarabedian , president of
Hollywood.com’s box-office research service.  “The Artist,” which opened in four U.S. theaters on
Nov. 25, will expand nationwide on Dec. 23, Weinstein said. The
picture has generated $14.7 million in worldwide ticket sales,
including $12.9 million in  France , where it opened on Oct. 12,
according to Box Office Mojo.  Weinstein followed a similar rollout strategy with “The
King’s Speech,” winner of last year’s best picture Oscar and a
best actor Globe for  Colin Firth . The $15 million film opened
in four U.S. theaters and gradually expanded to 700, taking in
$138 million. Worldwide revenue totaled $414.2 million.  Potential Benefits  Other films for which nominations were announced today also
stand to benefit. Director Steven Spielberg’s “ War Horse ,”
which opens Dec. 25, received two nominations, for best drama
and original score. Roadside Attractions LLC’s “Albert Nobbs”
opens Dec. 21. The film, starring Glenn Close, got three
nominations, including best actress for Close, supporting
actress for Janet McTeer and best original song.  Studios can use the sales boost. Ticket revenue in the U.S.
and  Canada  will be just over $10 billion in 2011, less than last
year’s $10.57 billion, Dergarabedian said.  The Hollywood Foreign Press Association and the Academy of
Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the group that hands out
Oscars, last chose the same best picture in 2009, when director
 Danny Boyle ’s “Slumdog Millionaire” won both.  Movies nominated in the best drama category also included
“Hugo,” “The Ides of March,” and ‘Moneyball.”  “The Artist,” set in the 1920s, follows a silent-film
actor whose career is threatened by talkies and a young dancer
waiting for her big break. Jean Dujardin was nominated for best
actor in a comedy or musical, and Michel Hazanavicius for
directing.  Comedy Nominees  Other nominees for best comedy or musical film were
“50/50,” “Midnight in Paris,” “Bridesmaids” and “My Week
With Marilyn,” another Weinstein film.  The New York-based studio led by brothers Harvey and  Bob Weinstein  received the most nominations, with 12.  Sony Pictures
Classics  had 10, including for  Woody Allen ’s “Midnight in
Paris.”  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Touchstone Pictures took eight
nominations, including for “War Horse” and for “Cars 2” in
animation.  George Clooney  had three nominations, including best actor
in a drama for “The Descendants” and best director and best
screenplay for “The Ides of March,” in which he co-starred as
a presidential candidate.  In “The Descendants,” Clooney plays an indifferent father
who attempts to connect with his daughters after a boating
accident leaves his wife comatose.  ‘The Help’  “The Help,” distributed for Spielberg’s DreamWorks studio
by Disney, earned a best-acting nomination for Viola Davis. She
co-starred as a black maid in 1960s Mississippi who collaborates
with an aspiring author, played by  Emma Stone , writing a book
about the domestics’ life. Jessica Chastain was nominated for
her supporting role.  Ryan Gosling  received two nominations, for best actor in a
drama for his role as an idealistic campaign adviser in “The
Ides of March” and best comedy actor for “Crazy, Stupid,
Love.”  The nominations were read by  Gerard Butler , Woody Harrelson, Rashida Jones and Sofia Vergara during a news
conference at the Beverly Hilton hotel.  The 69th Golden Globe Awards ceremony will be hosted
Jan. 15 by Ricky Gervais and telecast by Comcast Corp.’s NBC
network. Oscar nominations will be revealed on Jan. 24. The
Feb. 26 awards show will air on Disney’s ABC.  Disney’s “Cars 2” and  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) ’s
“Puss in Boots” were among the films receiving Golden Globe
nominations for best animated feature. “The Adventures of
Tintin,” “Rango” and “Arthur Christmas” also were named
finalists in the category.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  