-- H&M Sales Hurt as Weather Curbs Shopping
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2011-12-15T08:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/h-m-sales-hurt-as-weather-curbs-shopping.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , the world’s
second-largest clothing retailer, reported monthly sales that
missed estimates as shoppers delayed purchases of coats and
sweaters amid mild winter weather.  Revenue at stores open at least a year slipped 1 percent,
Stockholm-based H&M said in a statement today. Same-store sales
were predicted to advance 0.3 percent, according to an SME
Direkt poll of analysts. Total sales last month rose 9 percent,
compared with estimates for growth of 9.9 percent.  Retailers including the U.K.’s  Next Plc (NXT)  have said warmer-
than-average temperatures in recent months affected sales. H&M’s
larger competitor,  Inditex SA (ITX)  yesterday reported its slowest
quarterly sales growth in two years in the third quarter.  H&M fell as much as 1.4 percent in Stockholm trading and
were unchanged at 210 kronor as of 9:32 a.m. The shares have
fallen 6.2 percent this year, compared with a 13 percent rise
for Inditex in  Madrid .  H&M’s collaboration with Italian fashion house Gianni
Versace SpA that started on Nov. 17 failed to offset the impact
of the warmer weather. The prospect of falling household
spending is also restraining retail sales amid higher taxes and
increased unemployment in Europe.  “It’s pretty poor given that Germany was positive in the
month and they were certainly promoting quite hard in the
U.K.,”  Simon Irwin , an analyst at Liberum Capital in London,
said by e-mail. “The problem with promotions is that everyone
is doing it. It doesn’t bode well for first quarter clearance.”  Comparable sales decreased 3 percent in the three months
ended Nov. 30, H&M said, while total sales advanced 6 percent.
The retailer had 2,472 stores as of Nov. 30, up from 2,206 a
year earlier, the company also said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Jarvis  at   pjarvis@bloomberg.net . 