-- ABN Restarts Hong Kong Commercial Banking in Asia Expansion
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2011-12-15T07:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/abn-amro-restarts-hong-kong-commercial-banking-in-asia-expansion.html
ABN Amro Group NV, the Dutch lender
nationalized in 2008, reopened a commercial banking unit in  Hong
Kong  to win back some of the international presence lost after
its takeover, breakup and government rescue.  The Hong Kong unit, staffed by two bankers, provides
payment services, loans and trade and treasury services to Dutch
clients with operations in the area, said Jeroen van Maarschalkerweerd, a spokesman for the Amsterdam-based firm. The
bank also won regulatory approval to open a representative
office in Shanghai for its energy, commodity and transportation
unit, it said in a statement.  Chairman Gerrit Zalm has said he will limit expansion
outside the  Netherlands  to activities in which his bank can rank
among the top. The firm in October announced plans to open
offices in the U.S.,  Russia  and  China  to expand the energy,
commodities and transportation unit and has said it wants to
double its current team of about 100 private bankers in  Asia  to
expand assets under management in the region.  “This targeted expansion is consistent with our dual
international strategy of building the global franchises of our
ECT, private banking and clearing businesses, while also
supporting the activities of our Dutch clients around the
world,” Zalm said in a statement today.  Beyond the Netherlands  At a media briefing in Singapore today, he said the bank
wants to cut the Netherlands’ contribution to revenue, headcount
and assets to less than the current 80 percent, while boosting
staff, assets and revenue overseas.  ABN, which says it’s the biggest lender to the cocoa
industry, expects its recently approved  Shanghai  representative
office to be operational in the first quarter of 2012, it said
in the statement.  The lender is also studying a plan to expand the bank’s
equities, futures and options clearing business in  India , Maaike Steinebach, who heads the bank’s energy, commodities and
transportation unit in Asia said at the briefing.  The Netherlands bought Fortis’s Dutch banking and insurance
units and its stake in ABN Amro Holding NV for 16.8 billion
euros ($21.8 billion) in 2008 after the company, now named Ageas,
ran out of short-term funding.  Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  has said he plans
to sell ABN Amro shares in 2014 at the earliest, preferably
through a stock-exchange listing.  “Nobody knows how the world will look like in 2014. If
2014 would look the same as 2011, it certainly won’t be the year
to launch the initial public offering,” said Zalm, citing low
valuation of European bank shares.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Spain’s Banco Santander
SA and Fortis bought  ABN Amro  in 2007 for about 72 billion euros
in the world’s biggest banking takeover.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  