-- Aldar to Convert Mubadala-Held Bonds to Shares at Lower End of Price Range
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2011-12-15T11:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/abu-dhabi-s-aldar-to-convert-mubadala-held-bonds-at-low-end-of-price-range.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  will convert
bonds into shares at the lower end of their price range as Abu
Dhabi’s biggest real-estate company grapples with tumbling
property prices and declining market value. The shares dropped.  Aldar will today convert 2.1 billion dirhams worth of bonds
held by Mubadala Development Co., an investor with stakes in
 Carlyle Group  and General Electric Co., into shares of 1.75
dirhams each, the company said in a  statement  to the Abu Dhabi
bourse today. The original conversion terms stipulated that the
bonds would be converted at not higher than 2.30 dirhams and not
lower than 1.75 dirhams.  Property values and rents slumped in the  United Arab
Emirates  after banks curtailed lending and speculators pulled
out due to the global credit crunch.  Home prices  in  Abu Dhabi ,
the U.A.E. capital, may drop 30 percent more after declining as
much as 55 percent from the market’s peak in mid-2008, according
to Dubai-based Rasmala Investment Bank Ltd.  Aldar shares dropped 4.2 percent to a record-low of 92 fils
at the 2 p.m. close in Abu Dhabi. The stock has plunged 60
percent this year compared with an 11 percent decline for the
benchmark ADX General Index. The company’s market value has
slumped to 2.65 billion dirhams this year compared with 26.9
billion dirhams at the end of 2007, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Aldar in January agreed to sell assets including a Ferrari
theme park and convertible bonds to Abu Dhabi’s government for
19.2 billion dirhams to pay creditors. The company reported its
first profit in 15 months in the first quarter of this year as
it delivered more homes to buyers.  Sorouh Real Estate PJSC (SOROUH) , Abu Dhabi’s second-biggest
developer by market value, declined to a record-low of 87 fils.
The stock has lost 47 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  