-- Adobe Shares Rise as Sales Forecast Tops Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2011-12-16T21:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/adobe-forecasts-sales-that-may-top-estimates-on-creative-design-programs.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  rose the most in
more than three months after its first-quarter sales forecast
beat some estimates, boosted by demand for tools that design Web
pages and create online video.  Revenue in the quarter that ends March 3 will be $1.03
billion to $1.08 billion, the company said in a statement.
Analysts had projected $1.06 billion on average, with estimates
ranging as low as $1.02 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Excluding certain items, profit will be 54 cents to
59 cents a share, compared with an average 58-cent estimate.  Adobe, the largest maker of graphic-design software,
reduced its sales outlook last month and said it will cut 750
jobs and stop making Flash software for mobile devices. The
company is retooling its product line to better support the
HTML5 Web-programming language, which has backing from companies
such as Apple Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Google Inc. It also aims
to get more revenue from online subscriptions.  “Adobe remains the premier company in terms of share,
breadth of products and brand name” in the graphic-design
software market, said Jay Vleeschhouwer, an analyst at Griffin
Securities Inc. in New York. “It was a mistake to think Adobe
would somehow not be right in the middle of participating in the
HTML5 phenomenon.”  Vleeschhouwer has a “buy” rating on the shares and
doesn’t own them.  Adobe advanced 6.6 percent to $28.20 at the close in New
York, marking the biggest intraday gain since Sept. 7. That
trimmed the stock’s decline in 2011 to 8.4 percent.  Creative Suite  The  San Jose , California-based company is releasing a new
version of its flagship print- and Web-design software, Creative
Suite 6, next year. The suite -- plus individual sales of its
programs, such as Photoshop, Dreamweaver and Illustrator --
supplies more than half of Adobe’s sales. Adobe will focus on
tools that help customers work with HTML5 to design Web pages
and produce online video.  For the fourth quarter, which ended Dec. 2, sales increased
14 percent to $1.15 billion, compared with analysts’ average
$1.09 billion estimate. Profit excluding some costs was 67 cents
a share, compared with analysts’ 60-cent estimate. Net income
fell 35 percent to $173.7 million, reflecting the cost of job
cuts in the quarter.  One-third of Adobe’s design-software revenue will come from
online subscriptions in three years, Chief Financial Officer
Mark Garrett said in an interview. That’s up from almost none
now. The company’s advertising-software business may reach
three-quarters of a billion dollars this fiscal year and will
grow at about 25 percent annually, he said.  Billion Dollars  “This will be a billion-dollar business by itself,” he
said. “We’re working hard to take a very fragmented market and
pull it together.”  Chief Executive Officer Shantanu Narayen said the company’s
design software business benefited from sales to large customers
through traditional channels as well as individuals and smaller
businesses through Adobe’s website.  “We had a healthy pipeline and the team executed,” he
said on a conference call yesterday.  Sales in the current fiscal year will increase 4 percent to
6 percent, Adobe said last month. At the time, analysts on
average had estimated a revenue gain of 9 percent.  “A lot of the guidance takedown was due to the business
model change,” said Ross MacMillan, an analyst at Jefferies &
Co. in  New York . “What’s maybe more surprising is the strength
of the underlying business in Q4,” said MacMillan, who has a
“buy” rating on the shares.  Internet Delivery  The company is overhauling the way it sells Creative Suite
to spur more frequent purchases of programs like Photoshop and
Dreamweaver. As more customers seek to buy and use software over
the Internet, Adobe plans to release a software package called
Creative Cloud in the fiscal second quarter, Garrett said on
yesterday’s call.  Perhaps 15 percent of Creative Suite customers may buy
cloud-computing versions of the software, said Walter Pritchard,
a San Francisco-based analyst at Citigroup Inc.  Adobe plans to introduce more tablet-computer software and
subscription pricing plans starting at $50 a month, designed to
attract new customers. It will also stop developing the Flash
Player for mobile devices and instead emphasize the Air
software, which will work with online application stores.  As more users create content using Apple’s iPad, Adobe is
planning to make its entire set of creative tools available on
Apple’s  App Store , Narayen said on CNBC today.  Recent acquisitions aim to expand Adobe’s Web publishing
and advertising prowess as well. Last month, it said it would
acquire online advertising company Efficient Frontier, which
sells software that lets advertisers buy keywords on Google and
place ads on Facebook. Adobe bought video advertising company
Auditude Inc. on Nov. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  