-- Madoff’s Ex-Controller Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz to Plead Guilty, U.S. Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2011-12-15T22:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/madoff-s-ex-controller-enrica-cotellessa-pitz-to-plead-guilty-u-s-says.html
Bernard Madoff ’s ex-controller,
Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz, is expected to plead guilty to criminal
charges stemming from her former boss’s Ponzi scheme, the U.S.
said in a court filing.  Cotellessa-Pitz, who hasn’t been charged yet, will admit to
falsifying documents to aid Madoff’s fraud and to deceiving U.S.
regulators, as part of a cooperation agreement with the
government, assistant U.S. attorneys Lisa Baroni and Julian
Moore told a federal judge in a letter today.  Cotellessa-Pitz will plead guilty to four counts of
conspiracy, falsifying books and records of a broker-dealer,
falsifying books and records of an  investment adviser  and making
false filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
the prosecutors said. The charges carry as long as 50 years in
prison, according to the letter to U.S District Judge Laura Taylor Swain.  Madoff, who pleaded guilty to fraud charges, is serving 150
years in prison for the largest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history.
Investors lost about $20 billion in principal, the U.S. trustee
liquidating Madoff’s securities business has said.  David Rody, a lawyer for Cotellessa-Pitz, didn’t
immediately respond to voice-mail and e-mail messages seeking
comment on the letter.  Trustee Suit  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, sued Cotellessa-Pitz and her husband,
Thomas Pitz, seeking the return of $3.7 million he claimed they
received from the fraud.  Cotellessa-Pitz “played a key role in disguising the
fraudulent Ponzi scheme from investors and investigators,”
Picard said in the complaint. He said Cotellessa-Pitz was
responsible for closing the company’s books each month, and for
preparing annual financial statements and reports for filing
with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the SEC.  Cotellessa-Pitz was also supervisor of the firm’s anti-
money laundering program, according to Picard.  The criminal case is U.S. v. O’Hara, No. 10-CR-228, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The
bankruptcy claim is Picard v. Cotellessa-Pitz, 10-4213,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 