-- Aetna’s Bertolini Says Acquisitions Must Add Membership, Revenue
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2011-12-15T21:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/aetna-s-bertolini-says-acquisitions-must-add-membership-revenue.html
Aetna Inc. (AET)  Chief Executive Officer
Mark Bertolini said any mergers or acquisitions considered by
the health insurer must add membership, fill capability gaps or
increase service-fee revenue.  Aetna will have $1.25 billion for acquisitions and share
repurchases in 2012, Chief Financial Officer Joe Zubretsky said
today at an investor conference in New York. The Hartford,
Connecticut-based company spent $1.6 billion this year on
acquisitions. Bertolini said he is actively looking for deals.  “We spend at least two hours every week looking at
opportunities,” Bertolini said in an interview at the meeting.
“We’ve shown that we’re willing to acquire and be acquisitive.
We’ve done a lot so far and we have more to go.”  Still, takeovers aren’t needed for growth, Zubretsky said.
Total membership for the third-largest U.S. insurer will be 17.9
million on March 31 and the company expects to gain Medicare
participants the rest of the year. Medicare is the U.S.
sponsored health plan for the elderly and disabled.  The company is more likely to acquire a regional Medicare
or Medicaid provider than a commercial insurer, Zubretsky said.
Medicaid is the joint U.S.-state health coverage plan for the
poor.  “We see a lot of activity in the government space. In
Medicare and Medicaid we’re looking for good small regional
health plans,” Zubretsky said at the meeting.  Commercial Insurers  Bertolini said he expects small commercial insurers will
have trouble surviving, and Aetna have more negotiating leverage
to buy them.  “You’re going to be dialing me for dollars,” he said of
such insurers.  Aetna rose 2 percent to $40.05 at the close in  New York .
The company gained 31 percent this year.  Sales are expected to rise at least 5 percent through 2014,
Bertolini said. Aetna raised its current year and 2012 earnings
forecasts yesterday after a strong October and November,
according to a regulatory filing. The insurer increased its 2011
forecast for operating earnings to $5.15 a share from $5 and
said next year’s earnings may be $5 a share from $4.80 projected
last month.  Bertolini said his company plans to participate in state
health insurance exchanges that will be part of the U.S. health
overhaul law passed last year. The state-run marketplaces where
people will buy coverage are central to the Obama
administration’s goal of expanding health insurance to as much
as 95 percent of Americans. The  Congressional Budget Office 
expects 24 million people to obtain insurance through exchanges
by 2014 when they begin.  “We like exchanges,” Bertolini said in an interview. “We
think they’re good for the market.”  The exchanges may help Aetna save costs, including in
marketing, he said. The company is telling state governments
what it would like in exchanges ahead of 2014.  “We’re offering them guidance,” Bertolini said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 