-- Airgas CEO Says He’s Interested in Buying Taiyo Nippon Unit
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2011-12-16T07:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/airgas-wants-to-acquire-taiyo-nippon-sanso-s-u-s-unit-ceo-says.html
Airgas Inc. (ARG) , the largest U.S.
distributor of industrial gases, said it’s interested in
acquiring the U.S. operations of  Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corp. (4091)  as
part of a decades-long trend of consolidating the industry.  The Taiyo Nippon unit, known as  Matheson , is the third-
biggest U.S. distributor of industrial gases such as oxygen and
nitrogen with annual sales of about $1.3 billion, Airgas Chief
Executive Officer  Peter McCausland  said yesterday in a phone
interview. Taiyo Nippon Sanso has “no intention at all” to
sell its U.S. business, spokesman Norikazu Ishikawa said today
in an e-mailed statement.  McCausland, 61, founded Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Airgas
and has made more than 400 deals since the company’s initial
public offering 25 years ago. While Airgas is looking for
potential acquisitions with sales of $5 million to $60 million,
it would consider Matheson and independent companies with about
$300 million in revenue, he said.  “We wouldn’t mind acquiring Taiyo Nippon Sanso’s U.S.
operations,” McCausland said, declining to specify whether
Airgas has made an offer to the Tokyo-based company. “It’s not
for sale; I’m just saying it would be a good fit someday.”  Taiyo Nippon Sanso got 16 percent of its sales, or about
78.6 billion yen ($1 billion), from  North America  in the year
ended March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company got 74 percent of its revenue from  Japan  and the rest
was generated in the rest of  Asia .  “We hope to be successful on a bunch of acquisitions,”
McCausland said. “The focus is going to be on capex for growth,
acquisitions and growing our dividend.”  Taiyo Nippon Sanso hasn’t been approached by Airgas,
Ishikawa said.  Acceptance ‘Unlikely’  “Taiyo Nippon’s strategy is to expand overseas, including
the U.S., as the domestic market matures,” said Masami Sawato,
an analyst at Credit Suisse Securities Japan Ltd. “It’s
unlikely the company would accept an offer.”  For Taiyo Nippon Sanso, expansion in the U.S. operations is
“one of the most important objectives for our mid- and long-
term corporate strategy,” Ishikawa said today in an e-mailed
statement. “Taiyo Nippon Sanso continues to make large
investments in the U.S., in areas such as energy and
environment.”  Linde Purchase  Airgas’s largest acquisition was its $495 million purchase
in 2006 of Linde AG’s U.S. bulk-gas business, which had annual
sales of $154 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The second-biggest deal was the $310 million acquisition a year
later of Linde’s packaged-gas business, which had $346 million
in revenue.  Taiyo Nippon closed down 0.9 percent to 542 yen in  Tokyo .
Airgas rose 1.9 percent to $76.48 in  New York  yesterday. It has
climbed 22 percent this year, while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Materials Index has declined 15 percent.  McCausland, who defeated a hostile takeover attempt by  Air
Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD)  in February, said he’ll consider
retiring as CEO “in the next few years.” He plans to continue
as chairman to ensure a smooth transition and because he’s still
the largest shareholder, with a 13 percent stake, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Michael L. Molinini, who has been chief operating officer
since 2005, is poised to be the next CEO, McCausland said.  “I think I speak for the board when I say he could be the
CEO of the company,” McCausland said.  Three other executives behind Molinini are being groomed
for senior leadership positions and also “have great CEO
potential,” he said.  Improving Outlook  The outlook for the  U.S. economy  is improving, McCausland
said. Airgas is seeing the fastest sales gains in welding
equipment and in markets that serve the energy, chemicals and
manufacturing industries, primarily in the upper Midwest and on
the  Gulf Coast , he said. That indicates an early-stage economic
recovery, he said.  “We are in the third inning of a slow and steady
recovery,” McCausland said. “We are wary of what is going on
in  Europe  and in  Washington .”  Earnings are at record levels and have room to grow because
gas volumes are 5 percent below their pre-recession peak and
welding and safety equipment volumes are 8 percent below their
peak, he said. Airgas has almost fully restored employment
levels after cutting its workforce by 7 percent during the
recession that ended in June 2009, McCausland said.  Airgas is also poised to benefit from investment in new
software and reassigning some salespeople to specific industries
rather than geographies, he said.  McCausland said analysts’ estimates for 15 percent to 20
percent in annual growth in per share earnings over the next
several years are “very reasonable.”  “I think we can do that,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  