-- Alabama’s Immigration Law Clogs Government Machinery
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2011-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/alabama-s-imperiled-immigration-crackdown-clogs-machinery-of-government.html
Mobile County  spent hundreds of
thousands of dollars to comply with a law designed to drive
illegal immigrants from  Alabama . Kim Hastie, the first-term
Republican  license commissioner , had an up-close look at the
crackdown’s political cost.  Customers clogged her office in the Gulf Coast city  founded 
by French colonists in 1702. Locals demanded to know why they
were treated like foreigners after having to prove their
citizenship to register a car or license a dog. A World War II
veteran shouted at a clerk. A widow wept.  “I’m going to do what the law tells me to do,” Hastie,
52, said in  Mobile  last week. “But, as an elected official
representing the taxpayer, I feel it’s my duty to say what I
feel is unjust to the taxpayer. My concern is for the way the
citizens of this state are being treated. This process has not
been good.”  Alabama , which census data last year showed was 3.9 percent
Hispanic, compared with 16.3 percent nationwide, is among five
states that passed immigration laws modeled on  Arizona ’s tough
2010 statute. Now, after months of hassles in local government
offices, Republican Governor Robert Bentley and lawmakers have
promised to revisit the measure they touted as the nation’s
strictest. The decision testified to the influence of hometown
politicians like Hastie and demonstrated how interwoven
America’s 10.2 million illegal immigrants have become in the
larger society.  High Court   On Dec. 1, Alabama Attorney General Luther Strange advised
local officials to stop enforcing parts of the law after legal
challenges. This week, the  U.S. Supreme Court  said it would
review the Arizona statute. The outcome might nullify much of
Alabama’s law.  The measure, which Bentley signed June 9, empowered police
to detain people lacking documents when stopped for a traffic
violation. It required schools to check the immigration status
of new students and outlawed hiring, renting to or transporting
illegal immigrants. It made it a felony for government officials
to offer them “public benefits.”  It forced local officials to check the citizenship of
anyone wanting a car registration, a title transfer, a
handicapped license plate or a business permit. Mobile County
even weighed requiring citizenship proof to adopt a puppy or
kitten from the animal shelter, Hastie said.  The law’s intent was to make life so miserable that
Hispanics would leave, according to state Representative Micky Hammon, a Decatur Republican, who sponsored the bill.  Port City  Of Mobile County’s 412,992 residents in 2010, 60 percent
were white and 35 percent black, according to the U.S. Census
Bureau. There were Hispanics, who can be of any race, American
Indians and Asians, including Vietnamese refugees who work in
the shrimp boats and shipyards of  Bayou La Batre . The birthplace
of Mardi Gras, Mobile’s French, Spanish, Creole and Catholic
heritage distinguish it from the rest of the state.  The port city’s international firms include Australian
shipbuilder  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  and  Germany ’s  ThyssenKrupp AG , whose
$4.6 billion steel mill there opened a year ago.  Hastie said officials got no time to prepare for the law,
and enforcement directives changed. The county spent $150,000
for scanners to meet an early mandate that it keep copies of
citizenship documents. The office gave back $30,000 in fines it
levied on 1,700 people whose licenses expired before they could
prove their citizenship.  Death and Divorce  By mid-October, at Hastie’s urging, Alabama officials
allowed the use of a driver’s license database to check who was
in the country legally. Some still had problems, she said. To
register a car or mobile home, clerks had to verify every name
on a title. Divorce, a spouse’s death, remarriage or a
misspelling all delayed the process.  “It’s been a real pain in the butt,” said Calvin Bosarge,
53, a U.S. citizen who owns two mobile-home parks in the fishing
community of Bayou La Batre.  In one month, Hastie’s office handed out 332 temporary
vehicle registrations to legal Alabamians without proper
paperwork. There were 152 in all of 2010. Fewer than five people
in the country illegally were turned away, she said.  Thwarted citizens got mad: “They’d say, ‘I’m not a
Mexican. Do I look Mexican to you?’”  One World War II veteran had no birth certificate, an
expired driver’s license and a military identification that the
county couldn’t accept, she said.  “He was so mad he was yelling,” Hastie said. “He said,
‘I served my country and I can’t register my car?’”  An 85-year-old widow broke down after learning that she
would have to spend more than $200 to get her dead husband’s
name off five titles. Hastie paid half herself.  Intended Effect  Meanwhile, the law had its intended effect on immigrants.
Farmers across the state complained of labor shortages as
migrant workers left.  Foley, a town in Baldwin County across the bay, is 9.5
percent Hispanic, compared with Mobile County’s 2.4 percent,
according to census data. Foley Elementary School, with 1,200
pupils, lost 70 of its 270 Hispanic students when parents fled,
said Principal William Lawrence.  Remaining illegal parents are now terrified, afraid to
drive or leave home, he said. One father was stopped Dec. 8 and
sent to  New Orleans  for deportation, Lawrence said. His son told
teachers the next morning that his father had a new job “very
far away.”  The school helped parents draw up guardianship papers to
keep their kids from becoming wards of the state should they be
deported. Forty volunteers ferry immigrants to work, grocery
stores and doctors’ offices, said Marita Llaverias Johnson, who
is coordinating the effort for  St. Margaret of Scotland Catholic
Church .  ‘Get Out’  Hispanic citizens were harassed. Alabama native Carmen
Gonzales, a 27-year-old from Foley, said she found a flier about
the law on her windshield after work, with the words “Get out
of town” written on the top.  The Vietnamese refugees of Bayou La Batre were intimidated,
too, said Ana Chau, an oyster shucker. Like many in the
community, Chau purchased a laminated, wallet-sized, U.S.
passport card after the law went into effect, so that she would
never be without documentation.  Residents’ disquiet was echoed by their representatives,
who had unique worries.  Mobile County Republicans Ken Megginson, a school board
member, and Ashley Rich, the  district attorney , attended a
bicentennial parade last week in the city of Citronelle.  MoonPie Ritual  Speaking while being pelted with  MoonPie  pastries from
parade floats -- a local ritual -- Rich said prosecutors dislike
a provision that allows citizens to sue if the law isn’t
enforced. Megginson said schools can’t afford to perform their
new enforcement duties.  Such local leaders are a powerful force, William Stewart,
emeritus professor of political science at the  University of
Alabama  at Tuscaloosa, said in a telephone interview. Their
complaints trumped months of outcries from civil libertarians,
churches and even the farmers, he said.  They made Bentley, the governor, look again at the law
because their support is “critical to top-level state
officials, to their ability to get into office and stay there,
which is what they want.”  Another Look  Bentley said Dec. 9 that he was working with leaders of the
Republican-controlled Legislature to clarify and simplify the
measure to eliminate burdens on legal residents.  “We recognize that changes are needed to ensure that
Alabama not only has the nation’s most effective law, but one
that is fair and just,” he said in a statement.  The law passed the state’s House of Representatives 67-29
and the Senate 25-7. Changing it may prove tricky, Stewart said,
because the public supported it.  At the parade in Citronelle, 35 miles (56 kilometers) north
of Mobile, many still did.  “By George, if they can’t be here legally, then they don’t
need to be here at all,” said Malcolm Rowell, 61. “I know
everybody likes to come to the U.S., but we can’t give them
everything they want.”  Willie Gray, owner of the area’s weekly newspaper, the Call
News, said his readers -- he estimated 100,000 online -- agree
with Rowell, as does he.  He said the state acted only because the federal government
did not.  --
Editors: Stephen Merelman, Pete Young  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 