-- Tale of Missing $1.6 Billion, a Bankrupt Baltic Bank and Soccer
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a ,   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2011-12-15T10:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/tale-of-missing-1-6-billion-a-bankrupt-baltic-bank-and-soccer.html
Vladimir Antonov, whose grandfather
worked on the Soviet atomic bomb, opted for a career in banking
when he arrived in Moscow in the early 1990s.  Almost two decades later, the fallout from that choice is
being played out across  Europe  as authorities try to trace the
whereabouts of more than $1.6 billion missing from banks owned
by the 36-year-old Russian in Lithuania and Latvia.  Antonov, whose network of companies also included English
soccer club Portsmouth F.C., a Dutch sports car maker that went
on to buy Saab Automobile AB, and banks in Panama and Ukraine,
is scheduled to appear at court in  London  tomorrow. He was
arrested on Nov. 24 in the U.K. with a business partner,
Raimondas Baranauskas, at the request of Lithuanian prosecutors
wanting to charge them with fraud and embezzlement. They both
deny any wrongdoing and plan to fight extradition.  “This looks like someone else who put together an
enormously lucrative portfolio of assets and now with forensic
accounting I’m sure that will all unravel,” Chris Akers, who
served as a director at  Portsmouth Football Club  (2010) Ltd.
alongside Antonov, said in a Dec. 1 telephone interview. “It’s
like the Russian dolls,” he said.  Investigators are trying to figure out how a man whose
holding company claimed to have $7 billion of assets as recently
as nine months ago ended up with an insolvent bank in Lithuania,
 Bankas Snoras AB (SRS1L) , and an international arrest warrant.  Getting Blocked  They also are aiming to piece together how the businesses
were financed by Antonov, another Russian who amassed wealth in
the 1990s, though who didn’t make the Forbes magazine list of
the country’s billionaires published in April.  Antonov, who grew up in the former Soviet state of
Tajikistan, is a car enthusiast who was blocked by the  European
Investment Bank  from investing in Saab as long as the Swedish
car company owed the bank money. He previously was stopped in
December 2009 from being involved in the purchase of Saab from
U.S. carmaker General Motors Co.  Snoras, his bank, was barred from opening in the U.K. by
the Financial Services Authority, alleging the company wouldn’t
deal with the regulator in an “open and co-operative way,” the
FSA said in a  statement  on March 3, 2009.  “You have to admit that a bank isn’t some candle factory,
you need to find proof for each argument because we’re talking
about billions of litai,” Vitas Vasiliauskas,  Lithuania ’s
central bank governor, told lawmakers on Dec. 6. “We’ve acted
with caution and care by meticulously gathering all evidence and
our insights to substantiate our suspicions.”  ‘State Raid’  Snoras, which was majority owned by Antonov, was seized by
the government in Vilnius on Nov. 16 on concern it was
performing illegal operations. The Baltic country’s central bank
said regulators are now looking for 3.4 billion litai ($1.3
billion) that is unaccounted for.  Antonov and Baranauskas called it a “state-sanctioned
raid” on the bank and vowed to protect their business from the
“forced nationalization,” they said in a statement e-mailed on
Nov. 21 through their spokeswoman, Natalja Olesik.  In Latvia, the banking regulator halted the operations of
Latvijas Krajbanka AS, a unit of Snoras, on Nov. 21 because of
missing funds. About 167 million lati ($311 million) needs to be
recovered, Janis Brazovskis, the deputy head of the regulator,
told national television on Dec. 11.  Lithuanian Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius said on Nov. 25,
the day Antonov and Baranauskas first appeared in court in
London, that Snoras was “an institution of possibly criminal
financial machinations” taking money from depositors to finance
the other businesses run by the shareholders.  Forgery Claim  Should he be extradited from his home in London to face the
charges in Lithuania, he faces up to 10 years in prison if found
guilty, according to the prosecutors in Vilnius.  Antonov was released on bail by a U.K. judge. He
“strenuously denies dishonesty in any of his dealings,” Rachel
Scott, one of his lawyers, told the court. The men are accused
of stealing about 879 million litas through forgery and
misappropriation, U.K. prosecutor Natalie Soule said. They
allegedly forged documents to show false deposits in unspecified
Swiss banks, she said.  The Russian declined numerous requests during the past two
weeks for an interview, both through his lawyers in London and
e-mail exchanges with spokeswoman Olesik. When contacted on his
mobile telephone on Dec. 13 he said he was in a meeting with his
lawyers and was unable to talk.  Seizing Assets  Prosecutors in Vilnius seized personal assets valued at 300
million litai from former Snoras shareholders, Ruta Dirsiene,
spokeswoman for the  Lithuanian Prosecutor General’s office , said
in a Dec. 6 e-mailed response to questions. She declined to say
how much of it involved Antonov.  Latvian police spokeswoman Sintija Virse confirmed on Dec.
12 that officers had seized 14 cars and one house registered to
Antonov in Jurmala, a wealthy town about 20 kilometers (12
miles) from Riga, the capital.  “It’s likely that more assets held by former Snoras
shareholders and people linked to them may be uncovered,”
Dirsiene said in her e-mail.  Antonov rarely displayed the trappings of wealth, said
Akers. “If you walked into a room of 10 or 15 people you
wouldn’t have assumed he was theoretically the wealthiest in the
room,” he said. “He’s a very quiet individual, almost
bordering on a reclusive character.”  Born in  Uzbekistan  in 1975, Antonov moved shortly after to
Tajikistan with his family to a center of uranium mining and
processing, according to a  report  by research consultancy Kroll
dated Dec. 16, 2009, and made public by the Swedish debt office
a year later. He is the grandson of Yuri Antonov, who was one of
the founders of the Soviet Atomic program, Kroll said.  No Evidence  The report was commissioned after Antonov tried to secure
Saab and found no evidence of any illegalities.  Antonov’s company, Convers Group Management, originated in
1999 when, aged 24, he bought a stake in a Russian bank for
$200,000, Kroll said. He had graduated from the Moscow Institute
of Banking in 1996, and told Kroll he earned about $5 million in
bonuses working for a Russian bank by selling out of local
 government bonds  just before the 1998 ruble crisis. Antonov’s
 LinkedIn networking page  refers to him as a “banking
specialist” at Moscow Banking College from 1993 to 1995.  Antonov’s Moscow-based Konversbank bought Bankas Snoras in
March 2003, saying the Lithuanian bank was a vehicle to enter
European Union markets. He built it into Lithuania’s third-
largest bank by deposits by making it the most accessible bank
in the country via a network of more than 230 blue kiosks.  Claiming Deposits  One in central Vilnius carried a poster with a golden
retriever dog arranging wooden block letters to read “Snoras”
and a slogan below saying “Everyone knows it’s worth holding a
deposit here.” Almost a month after Snoras’s collapse, a sign
on the closed glass door tells customers to claim their deposits
insured by the government at other banks. The cash machine
inside flashes that Snoras’s banking license has been canceled.  The central bank, which fined Snoras in 2004 after the bank
ignored recommendations to set aside more money for bad loans,
gave Snoras 10 days in January this year to improve risk
management and other deficiencies in operations.  “This bank has not had a significant footprint on our
economy and lending to businesses,”  Mykolas Majauskas , chief
economic adviser to Lithuanian premier Kubilius, said in London
on Dec. 5 at an event to drum up investment in the Baltic state.
“It did however have a connection with depositors and it
collected a lot of deposits.”  Bank Holdings  The breadth of Antonov’s interest appears in a  press
release issued on March 11  by Convers Group, the company he
chairs along with his father, Alexander Antonov.  The group included Bankas Snoras, Krajbanka, Conversbank in
Ukraine and Banco Trasatlantico SA in  Panama , the statement
said. It announced that Vladimir Antonov had sold his 40 percent
stake in a company called Investbank for an undisclosed sum and
both Antonovs were leaving the board.  “The proceeds from the sale of his share will drive the
development of his business internationally in profitable and
fast developing sectors,”  the statement  said.  Alexander Antonov worked in uranium enrichment plants owned
by the Soviet government until 1993, when he moved his family to
Moscow to join Vladimir after the collapse of the  Soviet Union 
and independence of Tajikistan, the Kroll report said. He was
shot and wounded in Moscow in March 2009, the Russian Prosecutor
General’s Office said on its website. Antonov and his bodyguard
were hit by automatic-weapon fire as they walked to Antonov’s
car, Kommersant newspaper reported on March 12, 2009.  Fear for Life  Vladimir Antonov  told Kroll that the assassination attempt
was linked to a conflict in  Russia  over the assets of his
holding company. Both men then chose the U.K. as their domicile,
Kroll said in its report.  Antonov junior told the Lithuanian daily Respublika in a
 phone interview published on Nov. 25  that he feared for his
life. “I understand that extradition is inevitable,” he said.
“I can say it openly: I am scared that I may get killed.”  Olesik, the spokeswoman for Antonov, didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking confirmation of the comments.  Antonov continued disposing of his assets last month.  He signed an agreement on Nov. 19 to sell his 85.16 percent
stake in Banco Trasatlantico to the bank’s minority
shareholders, all Panamanian, banking regulator  Superintendencia
de Bancos de Panama  said in an e-mail on Dec. 6. The contract is
currently under review by the regulator, it said. He also sold
his Kiev-based Conversbank to a group of investors on Nov. 22,
the bank said in a  statement on its website .  No Contact  “We have not been contacted by nor received information
from authorities of Lithuania and  Latvia ,” the Panamanian
regulator said in the e-mailed response to questions.  The Russian banker is listed as a current director in the
U.K. at Convers Group Holding (U.K.) Ltd., International
Sportsworld Communicators Technologies Ltd. and North One Sport
Ltd., according to the U.K. registry on Dec. 9. He resigned as a
director of Portsmouth soccer club on Nov. 29, it said.  While Antonov spent more than 30 million pounds ($46.7
million) on as many as  10 sports businesses , according to
business partner Akers, the Russian only kept directorships at
two. Akers was asked to set up Convers Sports Initiatives, or
CSI, he said.  North One Sport owns the rights to the World Rally
Championships. Andrew Andronikou, the administrator trying to
find buyers for CSI’s assets, said fresh investment is needed if
the businesses aren’t to run out of cash.  ‘Shocked’ Partner  Convers Group is a shell company and doesn’t have any
assets,  Roman Dubov , another U.K. business partner, said. Dubov,
like Akers, was a director of CSI, which bought Portsmouth F.C.
in the English Championship, its second-tier soccer league,
using Antonov’s money, they said.  Dubov, 37, said in a Dec. 1 e-mail that he got to know
Antonov through an old school friend. He said his first business
dealing with the Russian banker was 15 months earlier when
Antonov asked him to set up a sports business. He and Akers set
up CSI in September 2010, they said. It went into  administration 
on Nov. 25, filings show.  “I, as all management in CSI and subsidiaries, was shocked
when the situation with him happened in Lithuania,” Dubov said
in the e-mail. “We have never been involved in his personal
business, and Mr. Antonov has not been involved in the day-to-
day operation of CSI, but CSI clearly associated with him as
majority shareholder,” he said.  ‘Petrol Head’  Antonov never showed much interest in soccer, said Akers,
who called him a “petrol head” rather than a “football
person.” His LinkedIn profile says he is “passionate about
cars and participates in several rallies.”  Spyker Cars NV, the Dutch maker of  sports cars  that Antonov
owned a stake in and was its chairman, was close to signing an
agreement with GM in December 2009 to buy Saab until the U.S.
company halted negotiations. Antonov subsequently was forced to
sell his stake and leave the board. Spyker eventually bought
Saab in February 2010.  “The only real shock is, if the allegations are true,
countless entities have done their (checks) and not been able to
prove anything,” Akers, the former business partner, said.
“There was a lot of smoke. People can go back to the FSA, the
investigation by Kroll and the Swedish national debt office. It
was very difficult to prove otherwise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net 
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  