-- Boeing to Work Past Christmas Amid ANA 787 Delay, ‘Minor Issues’
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2011-12-16T03:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/all-nippon-airways-says-delivery-of-third-boeing-787-is-delayed.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  said some employees will
work through their Christmas break to reach a 787 Dreamliner
delivery goal, as  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) ’s third jet was held
back by production delays while mechanics fix “minor issues.”  The company is “working hard” to meet its goal of
delivering at least five Dreamliners this year, Boeing
Commercial Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh  said in an interview
yesterday at a Wings Club event in  New York .  The third delivery to ANA, the only operator so far of the
new, composite-plastic jet, will take place later this month
rather than in November, Megumi Tezuka, a spokeswoman for the
Tokyo-based carrier, said yesterday. The holdup has caused the
airline to delay the start of 787 services to Beijing by a month
and disrupted the plane’s introduction on flights to  Frankfurt .  Boeing has revised delivery dates as it incorporates
changes to the jets that were already built when the 787 was
certified in August, according to Jennifer Cram, a company
spokeswoman. ANA received its first Dreamliner in September, 3
1/2 years behind schedule because of delays caused by Boeing’s
use of new technologies, materials and production techniques.  The Chicago-based planemaker lowered its delivery forecast
in October, saying it would hand over 15 to 20 of its two new
models through December, with two-thirds of those being 747-8
jumbo jets and one-third 787s. It had delivered seven 747-8s
through last week.  Boeing shuts down the week between Christmas and New
Year’s, leaving only one week of regular work left this year.
Workers in production for the 787 program and some others “will
be working to some degree” during the break, said Mark Hooper,
a spokesman in  Seattle , home to Boeing’s commercial-jet hub.  Continued Problems  The 787 team has had to deal with continued problems even
after the jet was certified for passenger use and deliveries
began.  Wiring “issues” were found in three planes during a
standard Federal Aviation Administration walkthrough, Cram said.
They were minor but needed to be rectified, she said, declining
to give further details. The faults aren’t recurring and weren’t
widespread, and Boeing is giving mechanics and inspectors
further training, she said.  Three auxiliary power units on Dreamliners also failed to
start and had to be replaced, she said, confirming a Seattle
Times report. The company is working closely with  Hamilton
Sundstrand , which builds the units, to analyze the problem and
has installed fully functioning APUs on all of the jets
scheduled for near-term delivery.  Wiring Problems  “Both of these are well understood and are already being
addressed by our team,” Cram said. “These aren’t what Boeing
is asserting as factors for driving our schedule.”  She declined to give specifics on what had held up the
third ANA jet or to say whether the wiring and APU problems had
slowed deliveries.  ANA was unchanged at 225 yen at the 11:30 a.m. trading
break in  Tokyo  today, after gaining as much as 1.33 percent
earlier. The shares have slid 26 percent this year, compared
with an 18 percent drop in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average. Boeing
gained 1 percent to $70.61 in New York yesterday.  Boeing is boosting output of the 787 following the plane’s
entrance into commercial service. Workers at the plant north of
Seattle that builds wide-body planes were on course to raise
their 787 production rate to 3.5 a month by early spring, from
2.5 now, Albaugh said in an interview last month.  The tally will reach five a month next fall as the company
works toward a target of 10 a month by the end of 2013, from
factories near Seattle and Charleston,  South Carolina .  ANA, which placed orders for 55 Dreamliners, is expanding
its overseas network following the opening of a new terminal at
Tokyo’s Haneda airport. The carrier expects to increase
international flights 16 percent in the year ending March 31 and
has said it expects to receive 12 Dreamliners by then.  Boeing is working closely with ANA “to minimize the impact
and expect to deliver this airplane as quickly as possible,”
Cram said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  