-- Alpiq to Focus on Cross-Border Power as Polish Forwards ‘Frozen’
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2011-12-15T11:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/alpiq-to-focus-on-cross-border-power-as-polish-forwards-frozen-.html
Alpiq Holding AG (ALPH) ,  Switzerland ’s
largest energy producer, plans to focus on cross-border power in
 Poland  as local electricity forwards are “frozen,” according
to the head of its Polish trading desk.  The local unit of the company is changing its strategy amid
low liquidity and volatility in Polish power trading, Krzysztof
Bonk said in an interview in Warsaw.  Polish utilities, the largest sellers, are focused on
winning orders from end-users, Bonk said. Power prices in Poland
are cheaper and more stable than contracts in the neighboring
Czech Republic and  Germany . Traders rely on volatility to
generate profit.  “I think that local power groups are focused on end-users
rather than trying to compete on the European market, where
forward prices are volatile,” Bonk said.  Polish power for 2012 last traded on Dec. 2 at 202.70 zloty
($57.99) a megawatt-hour, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg. The difference between its highest and lowest price
was 0.3 percent of the average since the start of November,
compared with 6.4 percent in the  Czech Republic  and 7.7 percent
in Germany. German baseload power for next year traded at 52.60
euros ($68.35) on Dec. 2 and the Czech contract was 51.70 euros.  Alpiq plans to focus on cross-border trade between Poland
and the Czech Republic, Germany and Slovakia and offer power
portfolio management services to its clients, Bonk said.  In early October, Alpiq won a tender for capacity to import
as much as 215 megawatts of electricity through a cable between
Poland and Ukraine this quarter.  While the link was used in the second half of November,
when Polish day-ahead prices averaged 251.33 zloty per megawatt-
hour, flows halted in December, according to data from the power
grid operator  PSE Operator SA , as next-day electricity fell by
more than 20 percent this month.  “Imports are also unprofitable in terms of forward
contracts as Ukrainian power is 6 to 7 euros more expensive per
megawatt-hour,” Bonk said. “Power in Poland would have to cost
over 50 euros per megawatt-hour to make imports profitable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  