-- Amazon Says Kindle Sales Topping 1 Million Devices a Week
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2011-12-15T22:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/amazon-kindle-selling-more-than-1m-per-week.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest
online retailer, said customers have bought about 1 million of
its Kindle e-book readers and tablets in each of the past three
weeks, the most detailed sales numbers the company has released.  The Kindle Fire tablet, which sells for $199, has been the
best-selling product on Amazon.com since its introduction 11
weeks ago, the Seattle-based company said in a statement today.
Kindle Fire sales have risen week-over-week for the past three
weeks, Amazon said.  The Kindle Fire, which has a 7-inch (18-centimeter) display
and runs on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, costs less
than half the price of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s least-expensive iPad tablet.
Amazon Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bezos said in October that
the company may post a loss in the fourth quarter as it ramps up
spending. Operating margin may narrow to 0.79 percent this
quarter from 3.66 percent in the year-earlier period, according
to the average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  “They have not talked about numbers at all, so it’s a big
deal that they for some reason think they need to disclose
metrics now,” said  Brian Blair , an analyst at Wedge Partners
Corp. in New York. “It’s a part of their strategy to show the
strength of it against Apple -- a way to say, ‘we’re a player,
and we’re going to start letting you know.’”  Amazon shares jumped 0.6 percent to $181.26 today at the
close in New York. The stock is little changed this year.  Content Revenue  While  IHS (IHS)  Inc. says Amazon is losing money on every $199
tablet it sells, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP said Nov. 15
that each machine may generate a total of $384 in revenue for
the company, including money spent on books, videos and other
content.  Estimates for sales have varied. Amazon has raised
production of the tablet two or three times since its
introduction and will probably sell 5 million to 6 million
Kindle Fires by the end of the year, Blair said.  Anthony DiClemente , an analyst at Barclays Plc in New York,
said the company may sell 4.5 million tablets in the fourth
quarter, while  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W. Baird &
Co. in San Francisco, estimates Amazon will sell 5 million to 6
million units of the device.  After hitting store shelves on Nov. 14, the Kindle Fire has
surpassed more established tablets from Samsung Electronics Co.
and  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  in challenging Apple, which will ship an
estimated 18.6 million iPads in the fourth quarter, IHS said.
That would give Apple a market share of 66 percent, compared
with an estimated 14 percent for Amazon, IHS said. The
researcher  forecasts  overall tablet sales of 28.3 million units
this quarter.  “They’re getting traction by selling no-profit hardware,”
said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP in New York.
“Bad for margins, but it is giving them some share.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  