-- American Electric Seeks Easing of EPA Toxics Plan for Particles
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2011-12-15T16:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/american-electric-seeks-easing-of-epa-toxics-plan-for-particles.html
Power producers fighting the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency’s $11 billion rule to curb
mercury and toxic emissions are gaining ground in a drive to
revise part of the standard.  American Electric Power Co. (AEP)  and  Southern Co. (SO)  asked the EPA
to ease its planned limits on small-particle emissions from
coal-fired plants. Otherwise the rule would require expensive
changes to plants that already have pollution-controls, the
companies said in a closed-door meeting with the EPA this year.  The agency is likely to adjust the particulates standard,
according to Christine Tezak, a senior policy analyst at Robert
W. Baird & Co. in McLean, Virginia. “They’ve done something
constructive,” she said in an interview.  A revision in the rule, set to be released within days, may
be a way for the agency to deal with complaints from American
Electric and Southern that the standard will put unnecessary
burdens on operators of coal-fired  power plants . The change
isn’t the top demand of such power companies, and would leave
the rest of the obligations it imposes in place.  The EPA rule was initiated after a federal court threw out
standards issued by the  Bush administration  to limit mercury
pollution. Under the proposal, plants will need to install
controls to curb toxic materials released when coal is burned.  The agency has opposed demands from the companies that
President  Barack Obama  grant an across-the-board waiver to delay
implementation, according to people briefed on the matter who
declined to be identified before an announcement. White House
officials haven’t indicated whether they may intervene to change
the EPA’s proposal.  ‘Rosy’ Assumptions  The EPA will need to change the particulate-matter levels
because the “rosy technological assumptions just didn’t add
up” in its proposal, said  Scott Segal , a lobbyist for companies
including Southern. “Those numbers need to be adjusted just to
be plausible.”  The EPA rule incorporates three separate limits: one for
mercury, a second for acid gases and a third for particulate
matter, which is used to target emissions of metals such as
chromium, selenium and cadmium.  The EPA declined to comment on how it might adjust the
particles standard.  “We hope those interested in these standards will withhold
judgment until they are actually finalized and released,”
Betsaida Alcantara, an agency spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The proposed rule, released in March, set the standard for
dust and finer particles that are 1/30th the width of a human
hair at 0.3 pounds per megawatt-hour for coal-fired plants. A
megawatt-hour of electricity can power 800 average U.S. homes
for an hour, according to the Energy Department.  Eliminate Emissions  For American Electric, the proposed standard will require
eliminating 99.8 percent of emissions at plants where it has
installed pollution-control equipment, up from the current 99.6
percent, costing more than $600 million, Chief Executive Officer
Nick Akins said in an interview Nov. 2.  “You are really getting into a marginal return at a high
cost to the economy and to ratepayers,” Akins said.  American Electric, based in Columbus,  Ohio , said in June
that proposed EPA rules would force it to close parts or all of
11 power plants, eliminating 600 jobs. Complying with the rules
would cost $8 billion, most of it on cleaning up or shutting
plants that lack pollution-control equipment, it said.  American Electric and Atlanta-based Southern made a similar
case at a closed-door meeting with EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson  on Sept. 26, according to a record posted by the agency
on the government website  www.regulations.gov.   Time to Comply  Southern also pushed the agency to ease its standard for
mercury emissions. That’s not likely, according to  Frank O’Donnell , president of Clean Air Watch, an environmental group
in  Washington .  Most utilities are focused on how long they would get to
meet the new standards.  Power-plant operators would get three years to install
pollution scrubbers. The EPA has said it will grant an
additional year on a case-by-case basis, although it hasn’t
outlined a process for such extensions.  Power companies are backing a proposal from the Edison
Electric Institute, an electric-company trade group, for a
blanket one-year extension. Companies are also seeking a
presidential waiver for further extensions. Southern CEO Tom Fanning told Jackson it needed six years.  Tezak and O’Donnell say the final regulation from EPA is
likely to be in line with its earlier proposal, which would be
welcomed by health groups such as the American Lung Association
and would disappoint coal producers. That’s unlike Obama’s
decision in September to scrap an EPA proposal to reduce smog.  “The opposition is nowhere near as broad nor as intense”
as it was to the ozone rules, O’Donnell said in an interview.
“And the White House would like to keep health and
environmental groups on its side this time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  