-- Amgen CEO Kevin Sharer Retiring in May After 11 Years, President Steps Up
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2011-12-16T21:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/amgen-ceo-kevin-sharer-retiring-in-may-after-11-years-president-steps-up.html
Kevin Sharer, who has run  Amgen
Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest biotechnology company, for the past
decade, will hand the reins to Robert Bradway, president and
chief operating officer, in May.  Amgen grew under Sharer, 63, to an estimated $16 billion in
annual sales from $3.6 billion in 2000. He also oversaw the
debut in 2002 of Amgen’s current best selling drug, Neulasta,
which is used to reduce infections in patients on chemotherapy,
generating $3.56 billion in sales last year.  More recently, the  Thousand Oaks , California-based company
has sought to protect its former core anemia therapies, Aranesp
and Epogen, from further declines and new challengers by locking
buyers into long-term contracts. Amgen also has promised to
return more cash to stockholders through declaring its first
quarterly dividend this year and a $10 billion buyback program.  “Amgen has been run in a very shareholder friendly manner,
they’ve been giving a lot of cash back to shareholders,”  Eric Schmidt , an analyst with Cowen & Co. in  New York , said in an
interview. “I expect that it is going to be the case going
forward as well.”  During Sharer’s tenure as the company’s third CEO, shares
have gained an annual return of half of 1 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. His predecessor, Gordon Binder,
oversaw a 43 percent annual jump.  The drugmaker needs to focus more on finding partners and
developing new products after turning out one blockbuster
therapy in the past five years, denosumab, approved last year as
Prolia for women with osteoporosis, said  Michael Yee , a San
Francisco-based analyst with  RBC Capital Markets .  ‘Shake Up’  “What I think Bob Bradway needs to do is shake up the
culture at Amgen, to reinvigorate a focus of innovation for new
products and a focus on cutting expenses,” Yee said in an
interview. “This company has not had a successful history of
business development.”  Bradway, 48, who joined Amgen five years ago as vice
president of operations, was named chief financial officer in
2007 and president last year.  While investors shouldn’t expect too must disruption under
Bradway, he could “shake things up a little,” said Chris Raymond of Robert W. Baird & Co. in a note to clients.  ‘Unlocking’ Value  Although Amgen’s “cost cutting, accelerated share buyback
and dividend initiation announced earlier this year did placate
some investors, we think many expected more, including a more
drastic restructuring or strategic move,”  Raymond wrote.
“Under new management, perhaps more avenues toward unlocking
 shareholder value  can be explored.”  Amgen rose 2.4 percent to $60.05 at the close in New York.
Shares have gained 9.4 percent this year. Yesterday’s closing
price of $58.62 was 4.9 percent lower than on May 11, 2000, when
Sharer took over as CEO.  The company earlier announced it would raise its dividend
for the first-quarter of 2012 to 36 cents from 28 cents. Amgen
began paying a quarterly dividend in September.  Sharer, who joined the company in 1992 as president and was
promoted to his current role in May 2000, also became board
chairman in January 2001, a post he will hold until the end of
2012, the company said yesterday in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  