-- AMR Debt Value Set at 23.5 Cents on Dollar in Credit-Default Swaps Auction
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2011-12-15T19:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/amr-debt-initially-valued-at-22-cents-on-dollar-in-credit-swaps-auction.html
Credit derivatives traders settling
contracts that protected against a default by  AMR Corp. (AMR)  set a
value of 23.5 cents on the dollar for the debt of the American
Airlines parent.  The price, the result of a final round of bidding by 13
dealers including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG,
means sellers of the swaps would pay 76.5 cents on the dollar to
buyers of protection to settle the contracts, according to  data 
posted on the  website  of administrators Markit Group Ltd. and
Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s Creditex division.  A net demand to buy $119.5 million of the bonds was matched
with orders from the dealers and their clients, according to the
auction website. The debt was initially valued at 22 cents on
the dollar during a first round of the auction this morning.  Sellers of the contracts, used to hedge against losses or
speculate on creditworthiness, pay the buyer face value of the
amount being protected, less the value of the underlying debt.  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR filed for bankruptcy on Nov. 29
after failing to secure cost-cutting labor agreements and
sitting out a round of mergers that dropped it from the world’s
largest airline to No. 3 in the U.S. The company listed $24.7
billion in assets and $29.6 billion in debt in Chapter 11 papers
filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  Banks,  hedge funds  and other institutional investors had
bought or sold a net $337.6 million of protection against an AMR
default as of Dec. 9, down from $366.6 million through Nov. 25,
according to the  Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. , which runs a
central repository for the credit swaps market.  AMR also was one of 100 companies in older versions of the
Markit CDX North America High Yield Index, on which investors
bought or sold a net $131.5 billion of protection, DTCC data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  