-- AMR CEO: Company May Be Takeover Target
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2011-12-15T18:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/amr-ceo-company-may-be-takeover-target.html
AMR Corp. (AMR)  “most certainly” will
cut jobs as the parent of  American Airlines  revamps its fleet
and flight network and may become a takeover target during its
bankruptcy, Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said.  American, the third-biggest U.S. airline, will decide “in
the coming weeks” about what aircraft it will keep, the size of
its route system, how many workers the  Fort Worth , Texas-based
carrier requires and what it needs to negotiate in labor
contracts, he said in a letter to employees today.  “We will restructure our debt and aircraft leases, and as
we do we will undoubtedly need to ground some planes and resize
our network before we can turn the corner and grow again,”
Horton said. “And, regrettably, we will most certainly end the
process with fewer people than we have today.”  AMR, which filed for Chapter 11 protection Nov. 29, has
begun trimming jobs and warning of potential additional
furloughs at the American Eagle regional unit. Twenty pilot
trainees were laid off earlier this week, and 218 pilots and
flight attendants at Eagle’s Executive Airlines were told
yesterday that their jobs may be cut by the end of January.  Some parties involved in AMR’s bankruptcy want the company
“to shrink dramatically, close hubs and lay off thousands more
to create the greatest value for creditors” while others will
call for AMR to be sold or broken up, Horton said.  Takeover ‘Opportunists’  “And as we’ve seen before in this situation, there may be
opportunists who wish to acquire our company while we are in
this situation,” he said. Horton was named CEO after  Gerard Arpey  retired from the job when AMR’s board voted to file
bankruptcy.  US Airways  Group Inc. made an unsuccessful hostile bid for
Delta Air Lines Inc. in 2006, during Delta’s bankruptcy. The
current US Airways emerged from its last stay in bankruptcy
through a merger with America West Holdings Corp.  More recently, US Airways said this year that there is room
in the U.S. airline industry for more consolidation and that it
will participate.  AMR expects to fund operations through its bankruptcy with
$4.1 billion in cash and short-term investments, the most ever
for a U.S. carrier filing Chapter 11. The cash reserve may help
it avoid a takeover attempt by eliminating the need for outside
financing, analysts including James M. Higgins of Ticonderoga
Securities LLC have said.  Bonds, Credit Swaps  AMR’s 10.5 percent notes due in October rose 0.5 cent to
95.25 cents on the dollar at 11:39 a.m. in  New York , according
to Trace, the bond-pricing service of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Credit derivatives traders settling contracts that
protected against a default by AMR today set an initial value of
22 cents on the dollar for its debt. The price means sellers of
the swaps would pay 78 cents on the dollar to buyers of
protection to settle the contracts, according to data posted on
the website of administrators Markit Group Ltd. and
IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Creditex division.  AMR is the last of the largest full-service U.S. carriers
to seek court protection. The company blamed the filing in part
on its inability to win new labor agreements that would reduce
expenses and boost productivity. The airline has said it has an
$800 million cost disadvantage to peers that shed pensions and
some retiree benefits and changed union contracts in bankruptcy.  “As part of the restructuring process, we’ll need to
finally agree upon next-generation, competitive labor
contracts,” Horton said. “This will all be difficult, but I
assure you our objective will be to create a successful company
and the best outcome for the greatest number of people.”  Six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg have said they expect
American to shrink in bankruptcy by as much as 10 percent.  A United Continental Holdings Inc predecessor, UAL Corp.,
trimmed capacity 8 percent in the months after its December 2002
filing. Delta reduced domestic capacity by 16 percent in 2006,
its first full year in Chapter 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  