-- Amtrak Says It Needs NY Station That May Be Too Costly
-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 2011-12-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/amtrak-says-it-needs-new-york-station-that-may-be-too-costly.html
For Amtrak to move more passengers
on trains between Washington and  Boston , its only profitable
route, it must move out of  New York ’s Penn Station, said Drew
Galloway, assistant vice president for the eastern region.  The new space it covets is across the street, where New
York state and two developers plan to transform the 97-year-old
James A. Farley Post Office into a $1 billion train hall and
retail complex.  The rub: Officials at U.S. taxpayer-subsidized Amtrak,
which lost $1.3 billion last fiscal year, say they can’t afford
to leave Penn Station, which the railroad owns, unless their new
home is effectively rent-free. With the development’s finances
unresolved, New York officials haven’t made guarantees.  “Either we are able to expand the station capacity to
accommodate more passengers, or we can’t expand the service on
the corridor,” Galloway said. “It’s that simple.”  Other potential sources of project funding have dried up or
face constraints. Congress last month killed the fiscal 2012
budget for President Barack Obama’s high-speed rail program and
cut  Amtrak ’s annual subsidy by $65 million.  The  Port Authority of New York and New Jersey , which is
managing construction for the state, raised tolls in August by
56 percent over five years to shore up its budget. The real
estate developers will spend money on the project after
negotiating final terms with the state, Timothy Gilchrist,
president of  Moynihan Station Development Corp. , a unit of New
York state’s business-investment agency, said in an interview.  The project is named for the late Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a New York Democrat, who first championed it almost 20
years ago.  ‘Modest Increase’  Amtrak won’t have to help pay to build its new home,
Gilchrist said. How much it will contribute to operations is
under discussion, though Washington-based Amtrak won’t occupy it
if it faces more than a “modest increase” from costs at  Penn
Station , Galloway said in an interview.  Penn Station is  North America ’s busiest passenger-
transportation center, handling more travelers than the New York
region’s three airports combined, according to the June 2010
state  plan  outlining the project.  It’s in the middle of Amtrak’s Northeast Corridor, where
ridership on regional and Acela trains grew 30 percent to 10.9
million in fiscal year 2011 from 8.4 million in fiscal 2000,
according to the railroad.  ‘Running of Bulls’  The Acela, which can reach 150 miles per hour, captured 74
percent of the airline-rail market between New York and
Washington in fiscal 2011, Stephen Gardner, Amtrak’s vice
president of Northeast Corridor infrastructure and investment
development, said at a conference last month. In 2000 it was 37
percent.  Amtrak passengers represent a small fraction of people who
use Penn Station, which is also served by  New Jersey  Transit,
Long Island Rail Road and New York subways. More than 600,000
people enter the station daily; 25,000 to 30,000 ride Amtrak,
Galloway said.  Separating Amtrak from local trains would stop some of the
ripple effect in operations that a problem with one train can
cause, Galloway said.  It also would remove Amtrak riders from the crush of
commuters that descend on Penn Station during rush hours like a
“running of the bulls,” Fred Bartoli, transportation project
manager for Moynihan Station Development, said.  Two former Amtrak presidents questioned whether the
railroad must relocate to carry more passengers on Northeast
trains.  “The tracks under the Farley Building and Penn Station are
the same tracks,”  Tom Downs , president from 1993 to 1998, said
by phone. “Without a way to increase the number of platforms,
it doesn’t increase capacity.”  Longer Trains  David Gunn withdrew Amtrak from the project in 2004 when he
was president, saying it was too expensive as the railroad faced
possible bankruptcy. Current President Joseph Boardman in 2009
renewed the commitment.  The post-office redevelopment is “an example of how the
whole transportation planning system has broken down,” Gunn
said in a phone interview. “It was controlled by a bunch of
rich developers.”  Galloway agreed the project won’t add tracks to the 21 that
run under Penn Station; 13 of those continue beneath the Farley
building. It will create “much-needed passenger waiting space”
and escalators, elevators and stairs to platforms, he said.  “Even though the number of trains may not increase they
can grow in length” as the new station could accommodate more
riders, Galloway said.  The Farley complex is distinctive for its inscription
 “Neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night stays these
couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds.”   Development Rights  The first phase of the renovation, to expand the
underground concourse on Penn Station’s west end, began last
October and is scheduled to be completed in 2016. The second
phase is to include the train hall and developing the complex’s
west side for residential and commercial use.  Building Amtrak’s new site will take 3 1/2 to 4 years and
make available 2.5 million square feet of development rights the
private-sector partners can transfer to other sites or sell,
Gilchrist said. Phase two will be financed by a public-private
partnership with New York-based developers  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) 
and Related Cos LLP.  ‘Funding Gap’  The development rights may yield several hundred million
dollars “but there will still be a funding gap and it’s not
clear how that will be filled,” Juliette Michaelson, director
of strategic initiatives for the New York-based  Regional Plan
Association , said in a phone interview.  The U.S. Transportation Department rejected the state’s
request for $50 million for Moynihan Station design plans
earlier this year. U.S. Representative  John Mica , the Florida
Republican who’s chairman of the House transportation committee,
said the department shouldn’t put more resources into the
project until the developers contribute.  “There’s plenty of federal money in it,” Mica said in an
interview. “I want to see the green dollar bills from the
private sector.”  Vornado, Related  Vornado and Related in 2006 committed $313.8 million to the
project. Though a final deal wasn’t struck, they made a $10
million refundable deposit, according to a 2005 document
prepared for the Moynihan Station Development board.  Joanna Rose , a spokeswoman for Related, and Wendi Kopsick,
a Vornado spokeswoman, declined to comment on negotiations.  Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, last week offered a job-
creation plan that includes $300 million for the  Port Authority 
to spend on capital projects. That may provide enough money to
start the second phase, Michaelson said in an e-mail.  To offset any costs of space at Moynihan Station, Amtrak
may renovate and rent its space in Penn Station to retailers,
 New Jersey Transit  and the Long Island Rail Road, Galloway said.  Moynihan Station may end up saving Amtrak money, Galloway
said.  “If we didn’t have this opportunity, then we would be
looking at probably several hundred million in  capital
investment , in life-safety improvements for the area of Penn
Station that Moynihan is taking care of for us,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in  Washington  at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  