-- Apollo Said Near Taminco Deal for More Than EU1.1 Billion
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2011-12-15T13:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/apollo-said-near-taminco-purchase-for-more-than-eu1-1-billion.html
Apollo Global Management LLC , the
private equity firm started by  Leon Black , is near an agreement
to buy CVC Capital Partners Ltd.’s amine-derivatives business
for more than 1.1 billion euros ($1.43 billion), two people with
knowledge of the situation said.  Apollo outbid Bain Capital LLC and Pamplona Capital
Advisors Ltd. for the Taminco business, said the people, who
declined to be identified before an official announcement. The
purchase by the New York-based firm may be announced as soon as
this week, the people said.  The agreement marks a prolonged exit by CVC from Taminco,
which the London-based private equity firm bought for 800
million euros in 2007. The  fund manager  canceled a planned
initial public offering in February 2010, citing market
volatility, and failed to reach a sale agreement with synthetic
rubber maker  Lanxess AG (LXS)  this year. CVC is set to make more than
twice its initial investment in the sale, the people said.  Officials for Apollo and CVC declined to comment. The
Financial Times earlier today reported Apollo won the contest to
acquire Taminco.  Taminco, based in Ghent, Belgium, takes ammonia and blends
it with alcohol to make amines that can be reacted with other
chemicals to make derivatives for pharmaceuticals, foods, crop
chemicals and solvents. It’s a consolidated market, with  BASF SE (BAS) 
of Germany as the other major supplier of amine derivatives.  Chief Executive Officer Laurent Lenoir has steered the
company toward higher-growth markets such as personal-care
chemicals and water treatment and away from commoditized
products. As part of an emerging-market drive, the company
entered a joint venture with  Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Co. (4182)  to
expand production in  China . In the U.S., Taminco is expanding
its methylamines operation as demand grows.  Apollo already owns two specialty chemical companies, now
merged under the name Momentive, with an offering spanning
formaldehyde and thermosetting resins.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are
advising London-based CVC on the sale of Taminco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net 
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  