-- Argentina’s GDP Growth Hit 9.3% in Third Quarter, Fastest Pace Since 2003
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-15T19:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/argentina-s-gdp-growth-hit-9-3-in-third-quarter-fastest-pace-since-2003.html
Argentina’s  economy  expanded in the
third quarter at the fastest pace since 2003, cushioning  South
America ’s second-biggest economy from a slowdown in neighboring
Brazil.  Gross domestic product in the three-months through
September rose 9.3 percent from a year earlier, compared with
8.6 percent in the same quarter of 2010, President  Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner  said today at a  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  plant
in  Buenos Aires province . The 58-year-old president was re-
elected in October after overseeing annual economic growth that
averaged 5.6 percent since taking office in 2007.  “We have to continue working on this path and not get
sidetracked,” said Fernandez, who started her second four-year
term on Dec. 10. “I’m proud of what we have done and committed
to the things that we still need.”  Argentina ’s economy is heading to its ninth year of growth
after Fernandez and her late husband and predecessor,  Nestor
Kirchner , boosted public spending to generate jobs and raised
pensions and wages to fuel domestic consumption. A slowdown in
Brazil, Argentina’s main trade partner, and the global crisis
will trim growth to 4.3 percent in 2012, according to the median
estimate of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The global slowdown will start to be noticed in Argentina
and in some other countries of the region in the fourth quarter
or in the first quarter of next year,” said  Carola Sandy  an
economist at Credit Suisse AG.  Signs of Stalling  Some sectors are already showing signs of stalling. Exports
fell 5 percent in October from a month earlier to $7.5 billion
dollars, while industrial production rose 4.1 percent from a
year earlier, the slowest pace in two years.  Brazil ’s economic growth will slow to 2.97 percent this
year from 7.53 percent in 2010, according to the median forecast
of economists in a weekly central bank survey.  Argntina’s national statistics institute is due to publish
its third-quarter GDP report tomorrow at 4 p.m. local time.  Annual inflation that economists estimate is 23 percent,
double the official rate, has helped fuel demand for autos, real
estate and dollars, as investors look to preserve their savings.
Capital flight in the first nine months of 2011 reached $18
billion, more than twice the pace of a year earlier, according
to central bank data.  ‘Overheated’ Economy  “The high level of inflation is showing that the economy
is overheated,” said Sandy in a telephone interview from  New
York . “There is investment, but demand growth has surpassed
investment.”  Toyota invested $126 million to boost production of its
plant by 42 percent to 92,000 units per year, according to an e-
mailed statement today from the Industry Ministry. The 776,000
vehicles produced in the country this year through November
surpass the record 717,000 in all of 2010.  Fernandez responded to the capital outflow by ordering some
companies to repatriate foreign investments and export revenue
and by tightening oversight of the foreign exchange market
following her election victory. The moves helped quell demand
for dollars, allowing the central bank to begin rebuilding
reserves that fell to $44.7 billion yesterday from a high of
$52.6 billion in January.  Labor Threats  Even with her landslide electoral win, inflation may
undermine support for Fernandez in a second term. Hugo Moyano,
the head of the country’s biggest labor association, today
called on businessmen to “contain” prices and asked the
government to raise the minimum income tax threshold ahead of
annual salary negotiations next year. Moyano, who previously was
an ally of Fernandez and Kirchner, also resigned his leadership
posts in the ruling Peronist party.  “We are willing to negotiate if businessmen reduce price
increases,” said Moyano. “We can’t allow workers to sacrifice
themselves to earn an extra penny, and then it’s taken away by
the government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  