-- Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio’s Office Targeted Hispanics, U.S. Report Says
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2011-12-16T03:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/arizona-sheriff-joe-arpaio-targeted-hispanics-unfairly-u-s-report-says.html
An  Arizona  sheriff’s department with
a reputation for being tough on crime discriminated against
Latinos through a pattern of unlawful stops, arrests and biased
jail practices, the U.S.  Justice Department  said.  The Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office engaged in a “pattern
and practice of violating the Constitution” and federal law,
Thomas Perez, assistant attorney general in charge of the civil
rights division, said today in a telephone news briefing. The
continuing investigation also revealed “serious concerns” that
Sheriff Joe Arpaio, 79, and deputies didn’t investigate crimes
adequately or provide police protection to the Latino community.  “MCSO is broken in a number of critical respects,” Perez
said, referring to the sheriff’s office. “The problems are
deeply rooted in MCSO’s culture and are compounded by MCSO’s
penchant for retaliation against individuals who speak out.”  Arpaio, a Republican first elected to the job in 1992, and
top deputies said Perez’s statements were politically motivated
and denied systemic problems in the office, based in Phoenix.
Arpaio said he’d cooperate with federal officials while not
changing police procedures, at news briefing later today.  “We are going to keep doing our jobs,” Arpaio said.  Homeland Security   The U.S. Homeland Security Department ended its cooperation
with the sheriff’s office today by terminating an agreement that
helped screen jail inmates for immigration violations, citing
the Justice Department’s findings.  “Discrimination undermines law enforcement and erodes the
public trust,” Homeland Security Secretary and former Arizona
Governor  Janet Napolitano  said in a statement. Her agency “will
not be a party to such practices,” she said.  Arpaio’s department covers the state’s biggest county by
population, with 3.8 million residents. His methods -- which
have included “crime suppression” sweeps in predominantly
Latino areas in and around Phoenix -- have made him a hero to
groups seeking a crackdown on illegal entrants to the U.S. and a
target of advocates for immigrants’ rights.  Arizona has taken center stage in a national debate on
enforcing federal law and the role of state and local
authorities. The  Supreme Court  said this week it will review a
2010 Arizona law requiring local police to check the immigration
status of anyone they suspect is in the country illegally. The
statute, which led to a national boycott and became a model for
 Georgia ,  Alabama  and other states, faces a Justice Department
challenge. An earlier ruling kept key parts from taking effect.  Civil-Rights Probe  The unrelated three-year civil-rights investigation of
Arpaio’s office found that Hispanic drivers in Maricopa County
are four to nine times more likely to be stopped, the Justice
Department said. One expert told investigators that the cases
represent “the most egregious racial profiling,” Perez said in
a letter sent today to Bill Montgomery, the county prosecutor.  Sheriff’s deputies and detention officers “routinely”
punish Latino inmates who speak little English for failing to
understand commands and deny them “critical services” provided
to others, Perez said in the letter.  People who oppose Arpaio’s policies have been arrested and
jailed “for no reason” or forced to defend against
“specious” civil complaints, Perez said on the call.  Investigators also found “troubling incidents” involving
the excessive use of force, sexual-assault allegations that
weren’t properly handled and a “failure to provide adequate”
police services in Latino communities, Perez said.  Lawsuit Threatened  The Justice Department will sue if Arpaio doesn’t take
“clear steps” toward a voluntary compliance agreement within
60 days, Perez said on the call. In his letter to Montgomery, he
asked for a response by Jan. 4.  “I’d much rather collaborate and solve the problem that
way,” Perez said on the call. He said that the department may
seek to cut off millions of dollars in federal funding to the
sheriff’s office if changes aren’t made.  Arpaio, who repeatedly brought up an unrelated scandal
involving the Justice Department’s handling of a gun-trafficking
investigation known as “Fast and Furious” that put thousands
of weapons into the hands of smugglers, told reporters that he
didn’t believe changes were needed in his office.  “I’d be glad to see them in court,” he said of the
federal agency.  ‘Witch Hunt’  The Justice Department made “false allegations,” said
Jack MacIntyre, Arpaio’s deputy chief, who referred to the
report as a “sneak attack” and a “witch hunt.” While there
may have been mistakes by deputies, those don’t amount to a
systemic problem, he said.  “I think it was a foregone conclusion what they were going
to find, and they ended up finding it,” MacIntyre said at the
briefing with Arpaio. The office was “targeted” by federal
authorities to generate votes for Democrats next year, MacIntyre
said. “That is the only purpose of it,” he said.  Initially, Arpaio refused to cooperate with the
investigation, which began in June 2008, prompting the Justice
Department to sue for access to relevant information and
facilities in September 2010, Perez said in his letter.  The suit was settled in June after Arpaio agreed to give
the department the access it sought. Investigators conducted 400
interviews of staff and jail inmates, toured facilities and
reviewed tens of thousands of pages of documents, Perez said.  Separate Investigation  A separate criminal probe led by the U.S. Attorney for
 Arizona  “remains ongoing,” Perez said. That investigation
relates to claims that the sheriff used his office to target his
political opponents, including other elected county officials.  In recent weeks, Arpaio has been criticized following
reports that hundreds of sexual-assault cases weren’t thoroughly
investigated or were botched by deputies. U.S. Representative
Raul Grijalva, a Democrat, three Democratic state lawmakers and
dozens of activists have called for Arpaio’s resignation.  The Justice Department is continuing to review the sex-
assault cases, in which many of the victims may have been
Hispanic, Perez said. Briefing reporters in Phoenix, Perez said
he believed Arpaio’s policies had constructed a “wall of
distrust” between deputies and the Latino community, leading to
a “public-safety crisis.”  “It is clear to me that this community is divided and it
is time to heal,” Perez said. “It is time to bring the
community together around the shared vision of a department that
is effective in reducing crime, respects the rule of law and
enjoys the confidence of everyone.”  Right Step  The letter from Perez is “a step in the right direction,”
said Randy Parraz, president of Phoenix-based Citizens for a
Better Arizona, a nonprofit advocacy group that led the
successful recall in November of Arpaio ally and former Senate
President Russell Pearce, a Mesa Republican. It validates
activists’ complaints about abuses and violations that have long
been known to them, he said by telephone.  Parraz was arrested after a public meeting in 2008, and
said that was an instance of retaliation by Arpaio.  “He needs to resign,” said Parraz. “He needs to step
down for us to get a fresh start.”  Arpaio has announced plans to run for another term next
year. As for resigning, “that is never going to happen,” he
said today.  He said he was courted by several Republican presidential
candidates seeking his endorsement, including  Michele Bachmann ,
 Rick Perry  and  Mitt Romney . He backs Perry, the Texas governor.  “They called me because they appreciate what I am doing on
the immigration problem and they want my support and ideas,” he
said today.  Arpaio, a former U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration
manager, has attracted media attention for his procedures since
he took office as sheriff. He keeps jail inmates in tents,
requires them to wear pink underwear and provides only two meals
a day, according to the sheriff’s office website.  In summer months, temperatures in Phoenix often top 100
degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Seth Stern in  Washington  at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 