-- Stocks Climb as U.S. Data Show Stronger Economy; Commodities Erase Gains
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2011-12-15T21:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/asian-stocks-south-korean-won-retreat.html
Stocks rose, rebounding from a
three-day slump, as data on jobless claims and manufacturing
signaled a strengthening U.S. economy and  Spain  raised almost
double its target at a debt sale. The euro strengthened from an
11-month low and Spanish and Italian bonds rallied.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (DSM)  gained 0.3 percent to
1,215.75 and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed 45.33
points, or 0.4 percent, to 11,868.81 at 4 p.m. New York time.
Spanish five-year yields fell 34 basis points and the euro
strengthened 0.3 percent to $1.3016, its first advance this
week. European government-bond risk retreated from near a record
high, default-swap trading showed. Commodities erased earlier
gains as oil, lead and cocoa retreated more than 1.3 percent.  The S&P 500 halted a three-day retreat as initial jobless
claims unexpectedly dropped to a three-year low and Federal
Reserve gauges of manufacturing in the New York and Philadelphia
regions topped estimates. Stocks and the euro  pared gains (SPX)  as
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said  Europe ’s debt crisis is escalating beyond the point where
one group of nations can solve it.  “Today we’re focusing on the positives and that’s that we
do have better economic numbers coming through in the U.S.,”
said  Michael Strauss , who helps oversee about $27 billion of
assets as the chief investment strategist at Commonfund in
Wilton,  Connecticut . “Macroeconomic news domestically is more
important to company valuations than what’s going on
internationally.”  FedEx Rallies  Among U.S. stocks, FedEx Corp. rallied 8 percent for its
biggest gain since April 2009. The world’s largest cargo
airline’s 76 percent jump in earnings topped analyst estimates.
Boeing Co. climbed 1 percent as FedEx said it ordered 27 of the
company’s 767 jet freighters to retire older planes. Utilities,
health-care and consumer-staples companies led gains among the
10 main industries in the  S&P 500 , with each group rising at
least 1 percent.  Tomorrow is the expiration of futures and options
contracts on indexes and individual stocks, an event known as
quadruple witching that occurs once every three months.  Stocks favored by  hedge funds  fell more than the S&P 500
during the first three days of the week, with a Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. gauge of companies that appear most often in funds’
top 10 holdings losing 4.5 percent compared with a 3.5 percent
drop for the S&P 500 during the period.  Traders who used to profit from price swings are struggling
as record stock market volatility shows no signs of abating.
Hedge funds are poised to post their second-worst year on
record, declining an average 4.4 percent through November,
according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research. The industry
lost a record 19 percent in 2008.  ‘Squaring Positions’  Hedge funds selling assets because of client redemptions
may have exacerbated declines for equities and reinforced market
volatility, according to  Eric Green , a Philadelphia-based  fund
manager  at Penn Capital Management. His firm oversees about $6
billion.  “The hedge fund exposure continues to go down -- it’s year
end, they’re squaring positions off, they’re preparing for
redemptions,” Green said in a telephone interview. “The
volatility is pretty extreme, the market is getting whipped
around on nothing and most of them want to shut things down.
They probably have to sell more things than buy because they
have net redemptions.”  Three stocks gained for each that fell in the Stoxx 600.
 Old Mutual Plc (OML)  climbed 11 percent after the third-biggest U.K.
insurer said it plans to sell its Nordic unit to Skandia Liv for
2.1 billion pounds ($3.3 billion) to reduce debt and return
capital to shareholders.  The U.S. currency weakened against 12 of 16 major peers and
the Dollar Index retreated 0.4 percent from the highest level
since Jan. 11. The franc strengthened versus all 16 major peers,
gaining 1.1 percent against the euro, after Swiss National Bank
policy makers kept the minimum  exchange rate  at 1.20 francs per
euro at a meeting in Zurich.  Spanish Auction  Five-year Spanish notes rose for a fifth straight day,
pushing yields down to 4.62 percent, and rates on similar-
maturity Italian debt slid 43 basis points to 6.38 percent.
Spain sold 6 billion euros ($7.8 billion) of bonds, exceeding a
3.5 billion-euro target.  A Markit Economics report showed European services and
manufacturing output contracted less than economists in a
Bloomberg survey had forecast in December.  The cost of insuring sovereign debt fell, with the Markit
iTraxx SovX Western Europe  Index (SHCOMP)  of credit-default swaps linked
to 15 governments retreating 10 basis points to 373 from 383
yesterday, just two basis points shy of its record on Nov. 25.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid for a sixth day,
falling 0.7 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index sank 2.1
percent to the lowest level since March 2009. The Dubai
Financial Market General Index retreated 1.3 percent, the most
in six weeks, after the  United Arab Emirates  and Qatar failed
for a second time this year to secure an upgrade to emerging-
market from frontier status at MSCI Inc. Qatar’s QE Index
slipped 0.2 percent.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  retreated 1.7 percent as
Toyota Motor Corp. and shipping companies fell. The Tankan large
manufacturer index slid to minus 4 from 2, the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
said. The median estimate of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a reading of minus 2. A negative number indicates
that pessimists outnumber optimists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  