-- AT&T Investors Face Risks if T-Mobile Deal Is Scrapped, Fitch Ratings Says
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2011-12-15T21:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/at-t-investors-face-risks-if-t-mobile-deal-is-scrapped-fitch-ratings-says.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’s endangered $39 billion
takeover of T-Mobile USA Inc. could create greater risk for
bondholders if it’s killed and the company opts to boost stock
buybacks or spectrum purchases, according to  Fitch Ratings .  AT&T, the nation’s second-largest wireless operator, was
granted a delay until Jan. 12 to decide whether to proceed with
the proposed deal that is opposed by U.S. regulators. Without
the benefits the deal would bring, AT&T could increase share
buybacks beyond “moderate levels,” Fitch said today in a
report.  Should Dallas-based AT&T decide to end the deal, it will
pay T-Mobile parent  Deutsche Telekom AG  a $3 billion cash fee.
Deutsche Telekom has said it values the total breakup package at
as much as $7 billion, including lower charges for its customers
to terminate calls on AT&T’s network.  “AT&T’s need to enhance its capacity could lead to a rise
in  capital spending  and/or the acquisition of spectrum through
other transactions,” according the report. “We would evaluate
those negative factors in the context of the company’s strong
free cash flow and its capital spending flexibility,” the Fitch
report said.  The move comes as AT&T faces a difficult decision on how to
address its need for more spectrum and network capacity, with or
without T-Mobile, amid rapid growth in network data traffic.  The report also says a scrapped deal could have “knock-on
effects” for the credit of other players in the industry
including T-Mobile which could have trouble remaining
“independently viable and competitive.”  Fitch placed AT&T on Rating Watch Negative in March after
the deal was announced, with its long-term issuer-default rating
of ‘A.’  AT&T was little changed at $28.79 at the close in  New York .
The shares have fallen 2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  