-- BofA, Citigroup, Goldman, Barclays Have Credit Ratings Reduced by Fitch
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2011-12-16T15:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/bank-of-america-goldman-sachs-barclays-default-ratings-reduced-by-fitch.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  had their credit grades cut by
Fitch Ratings new financial regulations and market  turmoil (VIX) 
weighed on the industry.  The lenders’ long-term issuer default ratings were cut one
level to A from A+, Fitch said yesterday in a statement.
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , based in London,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  and BNP Paribas SA also had their grades lowered.  The moves complete a review of financial firms by the three
major rating companies. Moody’s Investors Service cut banks in
September, citing a lower probability that the U.S. will support
the industry in an emergency. Standard & Poor’s lowered ratings
last month. Lenders including Bank of America and Citigroup have
said they may have to post billions of dollars in collateral and
face higher funding costs in the event of downgrades.  “It’s hard to take anything positive from this; it speaks
to the sentiment overall on global financial firms right now,”
said Michael Nix, who helps manage about $925 million at
Greenwood, South Carolina-based Greenwood Capital Inc.,
including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  shares. “It also validates what the
other raters have already done, and to an extent was expected.”  Bank of America climbed 8 cents to $5.34, New York-based
Goldman Sachs rose 83 cents to $92.73 and Citigroup advanced 1.4
percent to $26.28 at 9:54 a.m. in New York.  Biggest Lenders  Credit ratings of the world’s biggest lenders have come
under pressure amid weak economic growth and doubts about
whether European regulators have done enough to end the
sovereign-debt crisis. Lenders in the region must raise about
114.7 billion euros ($149 billion) in capital to help address
the turmoil, the European Banking Authority said last week.  Fitch downgraded Barclays and Zurich-based Credit Suisse to
A from AA-, while lowering France’s  BNP Paribas (BNP)  and Deutsche
Bank to A+ from AA-. Fitch corrected an earlier version of its
statement to announce that Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank was cut
one level instead of two. Morgan Stanley’s long-term issuer
default rating was affirmed at A. Jefferies Group Inc., the New
York-based investment bank that has lost half its market value
this year, was affirmed at BBB.  The downgrades may increase pressure on firms facing
stagnant revenue. Bank of America said last month that a one-
level downgrade by all rating companies could amount to $5.1
billion in collateral demands as of Sept. 30.  The full scope of damage from a credit-rating downgrade is
“inherently uncertain” because it depends upon the behavior of
counterparties and customers, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based firm said.  ‘Strong Liquidity’  “This decision is driven more by concerns about the global
economy than the specific credit quality of Bank of America,”
 Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for the lender, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We continue to maintain strong liquidity levels and
to build capital.”  A one-level rating reduction for Citigroup’s deposit-taking
unit could trigger an estimated $4 billion of collateral
payments and other cash obligations, the company said in a
regulatory filing.  Citigroup has made “enormous progress refocusing our
business strategy to take advantage of our global network” Jon Diat, a spokesman for the New York-based bank, said in an e-
mailed statement. “With a strong capital base, robust
structural liquidity and ample reserves, Citi is well-positioned
for the future.”  Representatives for Goldman Sachs, BNP, Deutsche Bank,
Credit Suisse and Barclays declined to comment. Mark Lake, a
spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley, said the firm was
“gratified” that Fitch affirmed its ratings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  