-- Bank Rev. Growth to Be Worst Since ’38: Mayo
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2011-12-15T18:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/bank-revenue-growth-to-be-worst-since-1938-mayo-says-tom-keene.html
U.S. banks’ revenue growth this year
will be the worst since the Great Depression and is unlikely to
improve in 2012, said Mike Mayo, an analyst at CLSA Ltd.  “This is going to be the worst revenue growth year for
U.S. banks since 1938, and next year is not going to be a whole
lot better either,” Mayo said today on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “So you better get it
on the expense side and you better not make mistakes.”  Financial firms globally have responded to slow revenue
growth and uncertainty about the European debt crisis by
announcing plans this year to eliminate more than 200,000 jobs.
New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the sixth-biggest U.S. bank by
assets and owner of the world’s largest brokerage, said today it
will cut about 1,600 jobs in the first quarter of next year.  U.S. economic growth may be muted for several years and
lenders are likely to see deflation in  Europe  as credit is
restricted and banks buy more sovereign debt, Mayo said.  “This is not a typical recovery; we’re recovering from a
major financial crisis and that takes many more years,” Mayo
said. “As it relates to the banks, it’s just not a whole lot of
loan growth, not a whole lot of revenue.”  Banks must cut their number of branches, he said. Mayo said
it was a step in the right direction last week when  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  announced that it will decrease the number of new
offices from its original target of 300 to about 175 in 2012.  Mayo has “underperform” or “sell” ratings on 13 of the
19 U.S. banks he covers, according to Bloomberg data.
Pittsburgh-based  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  is a “buy”
because management has “stuck to their knitting,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  