-- Banks Wooing Wealthy Women CEOs Say This Time Is Different
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2011-12-15T18:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/banks-say-this-time-is-different-in-wooing-wealthy-women-ceos-as-clients.html
About 75 women executives streamed
up the marble staircase of the  Harold Pratt House  on Park Avenue
in New York last month to a ballroom with cathedral ceilings and
antique chandeliers.  They were attending “Women Unscripted,” the second in a
series of events put on by San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
aimed at attracting and retaining women executives as clients.
Instead of focusing on financial planning or products for women,
there was a presentation by Saj-nicole Joni, who advises chief
executive officers as president of Cambridge International
Group. After the discussion there was a chance to mingle at a
wine tasting in the adjacent library.  While banks have courted women clients in the past, Wells
Fargo,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and others are increasingly
focused on getting the assets of high-earning women executives,
said Sylvia Ann Hewlett, founding president of the New York-
based Center for Work-Life Policy.  They’re targeting them now through these events that bring
“like-minded” women together rather than overtly selling
products, said Lisa Caputo, founder and former chairman and CEO
of Women & Co. at Citigroup. It’s a more prudent strategy since
women don’t react well to “financial services wrapped in
pink,” an approach that some firms have taken in the past, said
Caputo, who is now executive vice president of marketing and
communications at the Travelers Cos. in New York.  Women Millionaires  Jacki Zehner, a former partner and managing director of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and co-chair of  Women Moving Millions ,
a group of women who have made $1 million gifts to
nongovernmental organizations, said she’s seeing an increase in
the number of these types of women-focused events. Although some
firms are making progress, they still aren’t doing as much as
they could be when considering the amount of wealth held by
women, Zehner said.  “I don’t see any major financial firm having done this in
the way I would see as really taking advantage of the
opportunity that’s there,” said Zehner of Park City,  Utah .  About 27 percent of millionaires worldwide were women in
2010, compared with 24 percent in 2008, according to a report
released in June by Capgemini SA and Merrill Lynch Global Wealth
Management. Women controlled an estimated  $20 trillion  globally
as of 2009, a figure that is expected to rise by an average 8
percent annually through 2014, according to a July 2010 report
from the  Boston Consulting Group .  Large Cohort  About 42 percent of wealthy women surveyed by BCG earned
all of their money from their own salaries and bonuses, the
report said. Women’s  $12 trillion  in total earnings was
projected to rise by 50 percent to $18 trillion in five years, a
separate BCG study from October 2009 said.  Banks (S5INBK)  are paying more attention than ever to “this very
alluring” segment of the market because now there’s a large
cohort of high-earning women, Hewlett said.  Private banks offer wealthy clients access to services such
as investments, lending, trusts and estate planning. The largest
banks are  under pressure (BKX)  to attract more assets as government
regulations have curbed profits and boutique investment advisers
have grabbed market share.  It’s not that women have different financial needs than
men, it’s that some banks are realizing the best way to approach
them may be different, said Kate Sayre, a partner at the Boston
Consulting Group in New York and co-author of “Women Want
More.” During previous attempts to attract the business of
women, some financial firms’ pitches assumed women weren’t as
sophisticated or knowledgeable, Sayre said.  Patronizing Pitches  “For a long time, the industry has done such a poor job,”
said Sayre. “A lot of women felt that the banker addressed
everything to the man and felt they were just an appendage.”  Fifty-five percent of women surveyed said they think wealth
managers can do a better job of meeting the needs of female
clients and 27 percent aren’t satisfied with their private
banks, according to the BCG report. Many wealth managers
overlook women or use superficial strategies to reach them that
may end up alienating female clients if the “women-labeled”
pitches come across as patronizing, the report said.  “Our industry does not do a great job for women,” Sallie Krawcheck, the former head of Bank of America Corp.’s wealth-
management division who was ousted in September, said at a
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association meeting in
 New York  last month. She declined to comment for this story.  ‘All But Ignored’  Sasha Galbraith, 52, a former vice president in commercial
real estate at Wells Fargo who works at Galbraith Management
Consultants, which serves Fortune 200 companies, said she and
her husband have used private bankers since 1996 before turning
to asset management firm Neuberger Berman Group LLC.  “Until recently, I’ve been all but ignored during
discussions,” said Galbraith, who lives in Breckenridge,
 Colorado , referring to her experiences before Neuberger Berman.  Larraine Segil, who ran the Lared Group for 24 years before
it was acquired by consulting firm Vantage Partners, said she
worked with four different wealth managers before finding one
who was a good fit. Segil, 63, was unhappy with the  investment
performance  by the previous managers and didn’t trust some of
them to serve her interests rather than theirs, she said.  Segil, who lives in  Los Angeles  and is on the foundation
board of the  Committee of 200 , a global nonprofit group of women
executives, said she’s satisfied with her firm now, which she
declined to name, because she feels they understand her long-
term strategy, concerns and meet regularly with her.  Bank Luncheons  Beginning last year, Citi Private Bank, which works with
clients who have at least $25 million in net worth, held a
series of luncheons in cities such as New York and Seattle for
existing and potential women customers on topics including
finance, entrepreneurship, fashion and health, said Ida Liu,
managing director and head of North America Asian clients group.
Citigroup is based in New York.  The events, which have been attended by as many as 100
women, have helped contribute to a gain in assets from existing
clients, Liu said. The purpose is also to attract new clients
who mingle with existing ones and hear about their experiences
at the bank, said Liu.  While Citi Private Bank may host events geared to topics of
interest to women, it offers all of its clients, regardless of
gender, the same investment products and strategies tailored to
their individual needs, Liu said.  ‘Gender-Neutral’ Tools  The tools Wells Fargo uses to meet the financial needs of
women clients are “gender neutral,” said Jennifer Lee,
regional managing director for New York at Wells Fargo Private
Bank. Before last month’s event, Lee hosted women executives at
a June dinner at the Four Seasons Restaurant for another
discussion on leadership.  “I have no doubt that we will have new clients as a
result,” said Lee, whose clients have at least $5 million in
investable assets. “No private bank can afford to ignore women
clients.”  Barclays Wealth, based in  London , started holding events
across the U.K. this year focused on women, including one in
March at the  Marylebone Hotel . Last year, the firm also started
a magazine called “SmartWoman.”  “It’s about appealing to the intellect,” said Barbara-Ann King, head of the Barclays Wealth female client group in the
U.K. Women clients of private banks traditionally came from
inheritances or divorces, and now they’re seeing more women who
have earned their wealth as entrepreneurs or executives, said
King. Earlier this year, she started the female client group,
which currently focuses on women in the U.K. with generally at
least 500,000 British pounds ($773,450) in investable assets.  Engaging Female Clients  J.P. Morgan Private Bank, which generally works with people
who have at least $25 million in investable assets, usually
seeks potential clients by their source of wealth, such as law
firm partners or hedge fund managers, said  Doug Morris , a
spokesman for the New York-based company. Some of the firm’s
private bankers have reached out to women locally, Morris said.  “We take a regional approach to serving the needs of women
clients and prospective clients,” said Karey Dye, a managing
director in the investment management division at Goldman Sachs.
“Each region customizes its outreach and engagement efforts to
suit the needs of the community.”  Women’s Leadership  Banks and advisers trying to add female clients need to
tailor their approach without clumping all women together, said
Heather Ettinger, managing partner at Fairport Asset Management
in  Cleveland . Executive women clients are the fastest growing
segment of Ettinger’s businesss, she said. Ettinger’s firm
manages about $750 million in assets.  At the annual “Impact” conference for registered
investment advisers hosted by  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  in November
there was a session for the first time on “How to Engage the
Female Client.” About 240 advisers attended and listened to
Anthony DiLeonardi, co-author of “The $14 Trillion Woman.”  Wealthy women who are invited to banks’ events or
approached by financial advisers should find out what the firm’s
commitment to educating their clients about money is before
moving assets, said Zehner of Women Moving Millions, who has
been or is a client of  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Goldman Sachs,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , Charles Schwab and  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)   They should also ask about the fee structure, whether the
firm sells non-proprietary products and what its commitment to
women’s leadership within the organization is, she said.  ‘Huge, Huge Opportunity’  Since there are few women in top positions in the finance
industry, there still may not be enough understanding about the
best ways to work with women once they’re clients, and if they
require different investing strategies, according to Hewlett of
the Center for Work-Life Policy. Women made up  18 percent  of
executive officers at Fortune 500 finance and insurance
companies, according to a 2011 report from Catalyst, a nonprofit
that focuses on women and business.  “I don’t see anyone that’s really shown a full commitment
to the high-net-worth women market,” Zehner said. “There’s
just a huge, huge opportunity for a firm to really do it well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net 
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 