-- Bayer $750 Million Accord in Modified-Rice Case Accepted by Most Farmers
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2011-12-15T20:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/bayer-750-million-accord-in-modified-rice-case-accepted-by-most-farmers.html
A  Bayer AG (BAYN)  unit said a $750 million
settlement with U.S. rice farmers who sued after their crops
became tainted by a genetically modified strain is binding now
that the requisite number of growers has accepted the deal.  First announced in July, the agreement ended scores of
cases filed against  Bayer CropScience  by growers in  Arkansas ,
Louisiana, Mississippi,  Missouri  and  Texas .  “A sufficient number of now-verified registrations for the
settlement program have been filed by growers to represent 85
percent of U.S. long-grain rice acreage, a threshold point
established for the agreements to become binding,” Bayer
CropScience said today in a  statement .  Bayer CropScience and a Louisiana State University facility
in Crowley were testing a strain of the rice for resistance to
Bayer’s Liberty-brand herbicide.  The genetically modified variety cross-bred with and
“contaminated” more than 30 percent of U.S. rice lands, Don Downing, lawyer for the farmers, said at the first trial in
November 2009.  U.S. exports fell as the European Union,  Japan ,  Russia  and
other overseas buying ceased or was slowed for testing of U.S.-
grown long-grain rice, growers alleged.  Bayer CropScience denied the testing program was
negligently managed and claimed sale prices rebounded after the
initial drop. The unit of Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer AG
said the trace amounts of the LibertyLink rice posed no threat
to people.  Jury Awards  Juries in the first six cases to be tried awarded farmers
about $54 million in total compensatory and punitive damages
before the company settled a seventh case three days into an
October 2010 trial in federal court in St. Louis.  Under the accord, farmers who sustained market losses would
be paid a maximum of $116 for each acre of rice they grew, with
that amount declining annually from 2006 through 2010.  A farmer who grew rice in all five years could collect a
maximum of $300 an acre.  Downing, a partner at Gray, Ritter & Graham in  St. Louis ,
didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment
on Bayer’s statement.  Another attorney for the growers, Adam Levitt, of Chicago-
based  Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLC , confirmed the
settlement threshold had been attained.  “Hitting the threshold was a combination of the extensive
efforts of the lawyers involved and the understanding of the
farmers of the importance of the settlement,” Levitt said.  The case is In re Genetically Modified Rice Litigation,
06-md-01811, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri
(St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  