-- Bearish State Bank of India Bets at Record High on Bad Loans
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2011-12-15T06:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/bearish-state-bank-of-india-bets-at-record-high-on-bad-loans.html
Bearish  futures bets on  State Bank
of India (SBIN) , the nation’s biggest lender, are at a record high amid
concern a rise in bad loans will erode profits.  Open interest, or the number of outstanding contracts held
by traders, totaled 75,169 in  State Bank  at 11:16 a.m. in
Mumbai, the highest since 2002 when the futures started trading,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Non-performing assets at the biggest Indian lender rose to
4.19 percent of total debt last quarter, from 3.35 percent a
year earlier. Bad-loan provisions jumped 35 percent to 29.2
billion rupees ($538.9 million) in the same period. The  Reserve
Bank of India  has increased borrowing costs 13 times since 2010
to 8.5 percent to damp consumer prices, curtailing lending by
banks. State Bank shares have slumped 38 percent this year, the
eighth  worst-performing (SENSEX)  stock on the BSE  India  Sensitive Index.  “Traders are building massive short positions on State
Bank amid fears a rise bad loans will crimp profits,” Indrajit Sen, a derivatives analyst with Mumbai-based  Fortune Financial
Services India Ltd. (FFSI) , said in a phone interview. “Slipping
growth momentum, high borrowing costs and rupee depreciation is
raising concerns some debtors may fail to repay loans.”  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the outlook for
India’s banking system last month to “negative,” saying a
domestic economic slowdown and the surge in borrowing costs will
boost bad loans.  State Bank had its financial strength rating cut by the
ratings provider in October on inadequate capital buffers and
rising non-performing credit. The  Bankex Index (BANKEX) , the nation’s
main gauge of banking stocks, has lost 27 percent this year.  The lender will cancel untapped lines of credit and
reorganize its balance sheet to boost the amount of available
funds as it waits for an injection of capital from the
government, Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri said in an interview on
Dec. 12.  “Higher cost of capital, a slowdown in growth, and
foreign-exchange volatility are likely to result in a further
rise in non-performing loans,” analysts at Morgan Stanley led
by Hong Kong-based Chetan Ahya wrote in a research note dated
Dec. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  