-- BlackRock Says Euro Area Headed for ‘Full-Fledged’ Recession Amid Cuts
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2011-12-15T16:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/blackrock-says-euro-area-headed-for-full-fledged-recession-on-debt-woes.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
asset manager, said European nations including France and
 Germany  are headed for a recession as the prolonged debt crisis
has prompted companies to cut spending and stop hiring.  “We now believe that we’re in for a full-fledged
recession, including one in France and Germany, that could cut
GDP by 1 percent to 2 percent,” according to a note published
today by New York-based BlackRock’s investment institute.
“Short-term austerity measures could worsen the recession,
defeating their very purpose of closing budget gaps.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said today in
a speech in Berlin that the euro area may not be able to escape
a recession triggered by governments’ austerity measures. The
economy of the 17-nation monetary union will probably shrink in
the current and next quarters, Ernst & Young LLP said in a
report published in  London  today. The firm is forecasting growth
of 0.1 percent in 2012.  European Union leaders agreed at a summit last week in
Brussels to tighter control of tax and spending by governments
that overstep the bloc’s deficit limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product. They pledged a faster start to a 500 billion-
euro ($650 billion) rescue fund. On Dec. 8, the ECB established
refinancing operations with a maturity of three years, allowed
banks to use their own loans as collateral and cut the required
reserves ratio to 1 percent from 2 percent.  The moves by the ECB “reduce the risk of a bank liquidity
crisis that would spread around the world,” BlackRock wrote
today. “Secondly, they enable national governments to push
their banks harder to buy their government debt.”  BlackRock, which manages $3.35 trillion, has advised
governments including those in Ireland and  Greece  since the
start of the European sovereign-debt crisis in 2010.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  