-- BlueCrest’s Platt Says European Banks Insolvent
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2011-12-15T16:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/bluecrest-s-platt-says-most-european-banks-insolvent-debt-crisis-growing.html
Michael Platt, the founder of the
$30 billion hedge fund BlueCrest Capital Management LLP, said
most of the banks in  Europe  are insolvent and the situation will
worsen in 2012 as the region’s debt crisis accelerates.  “I do not take any exposure to banks at all if I can avoid
it,” Platt, 43, said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Inside Track With  Erik Schatzker .” If European
lenders had to mark their books to markets every day in the same
way  hedge funds  do, most would be proven “insolvent,” he said.  BlueCrest is pouring money into  U.S. Treasuries  and short-
term German debt because of concerns about market volatility and
counterparty risk, Platt said. BlueCrest Capital International,
the fund he personally manages in Geneva, has risen about 5.6
percent in 2011, posting gains when hedge funds broadly are on
pace to have their second-worst year ever.  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index (BEBANKS)  has
slumped 35 percent this year on concern over lenders’ holdings
of government debt.  France ’s BNP Paribas SA, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and Deutsche Bank AG have been paring
sovereign bonds and yields on Italian, Spanish and Portuguese
debt have risen to euro-era highs.  ‘Completely Unstable’  Platt said he’s disappointed in the measures that came out
of last week’s meeting of European leaders, saying they were too
focused on budget cuts. Austerity will ultimately lead to slower
growth in Europe, making the region’s debt woes even worse, he
said. A solution will come when the European Central Bank pumps
significant amounts of money into economies, something it lacks
a mandate to do, Platt said.  The situation in Europe is “completely unstable” because
countries have negative economic growth at the same time they
are paying higher yields to service debt, Platt said. The region
is heading into a recession that “can turn all the countries of
Europe, given enough time, into  Greece ,” he said.  The debt crisis began two years ago in Greece and has
spread to Ireland,  Portugal ,  Italy  and  Spain . At last week’s
meeting in Brussels, European leaders proposed their fifth
attempt at a solution since May 2010, agreeing on a closer
fiscal union and a willingness to add 200 billion euros ($260
billion) to International Monetary Fund coffers.  Hedge Funds Decline  While hedge funds have had bearish views on Europe, they’ve
struggled to make money on the crisis. Global market volatility
has prompted hedge funds to decline 4.4 percent on average this
year through November, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund
Research. The industry lost a record 19 percent in 2008.  Hedge funds have struggled because there hasn’t been an
obvious trend and there have been periods of bullishness that
have confused traders, Platt said.  “The process has been unfolding over two years,” he said.
“It has been extremely gradual and there’s been a lot of
optimism that a solution will be found.”  Platt’s BlueCrest International fund hasn’t had a down year
since he started the company in 2000 after leaving a proprietary
trading desk at New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The fund,
which has produced an average annual return of about 13.8
percent, mainly bets on movements for currencies and interest
rates. The firm’s BlueTrend Fund, which uses computers to try to
spot profitable trades in futures contracts tied to currencies
and commodities, is down about 2.7 percent this year.  BlueCrest has avoided buying assets put up for sale by
banks that are trying to deleverage because of concerns about
liquidity, Platt said. The financial meltdown of 2008 showed how
quickly holdings can become hard to sell at the same time hedge
fund investors are forcing sales by trying to pull their money
out of the industry, he said.  “I would not touch them with a barge pole,” he said.
“The major opportunities will come post-blowout.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Ruhle in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  