-- BP, TNK Billionaires Seek to Defeat Oil-Company Theft Claims
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2011-12-15T21:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/bp-tnk-billionaires-seek-to-defeat-oil-company-theft-claims.html
BP Plc  and its billionaire partners
in Russian oil venture TNK-BP asked a New York judge to throw
out claims against them seeking more than $1 billion in damages
over the alleged theft of an  oil company .  The lawsuit by Norex Petroleum Ltd. stems from more than a
decade of litigation in  Russia  and the U.S. over Yugraneft,
which owns an oil field in Western Siberia. Norex claims its
controlling stake in Yugraneft was stolen through corruption and
armed force and that BP and its partners profited off the scheme
at Norex’s expense.  BP and the other defendants in the lawsuit, including
billionaires Leonard Blavatnik and Victor Vekselberg, asked New
York State Supreme Court Justice Eileen Bransten in  Manhattan 
today to dismiss the complaint. Norex has fought in Russian and
U.S. courts over Yugraneft and lost, they argue.  “Norex cannot use this court as an appellate court to
overturn prior litigation decisions and outcomes,” said Owen Pell, an attorney at White & Case LLP who argued for dismissal.
“They litigated all these issues in Russia.”  TNK-BP, Russia’s third-largest oil producer, now controls
Yugraneft.  TNK-BP  is half-owned by London-based BP and half-
owned by  Access Industries , Vekselberg’s Renova Group and Alfa
Group Consortium.  AK-47s  Norex says that in 2001, militiamen wearing fatigues and
armed with AK-47 assault rifles, forcibly entered Yugraneft’s
corporate offices, telling employees that TNK had assumed
ownership of the company, according to the Norex complaint. The
men were acting at the direction of Blavatnik, Vekselberg and
 Alfa Group , Norex said.  Blavatnik, Vekselberg and others also bribed Russian
officials to influence a lawsuit that sought to reduce Norex’s
stake in Yugraneft based on the argument that its contribution
to Yugraneft, for which it received a 60 percent stake, wasn’t
properly valued, according to Norex.  In 2002, a Russian court reduced the stake to 20 percent,
according to the lawsuit. A Russian appeals court in 2004
affirmed the ruling, and Norex actively participated in the
case, Blavatnik and other defendants said in court papers.  “The assertions in Norex’s lawsuit are not only untrue,
they are simply a tired rehash of the same preposterous claims
they have been recycling for the past 12 years in both U.S. and
Russian courts,” Mike Sitrick, a spokesman for Blavatnik said
in an e-mailed statement. Previous lawsuits have been dismissed,
and “we are confident plaintiff’s latest attempt will suffer
the same fate,” he said.  Andrey Shtorkh, a spokesman for Renova, declined to comment
on the Norex claims. Representatives of  TNK-BP (TNBP)  and Alfa Group
couldn’t be reached for comment.  ‘Fully Aware’  When TNK-BP was formed, BP was “fully aware” of the
alleged illegal takeover of Yugraneft, according to Norex. Norex
cites an internal BP e-mail and an indemnification agreement it
obtained from Access, Renova and Alfa Group related to
Yugraneft.  “Our case highlights BP’s tumultuous history with TNK’s
principals and the shifting and self-serving alliances BP has
forged as part of its Russia strategy, which put the desire for
profit ahead of the all else,”  Barry Ostrager , an attorney for
Norex, said in an e-mailed statement.  BP attorney Daryl Libow argued in court that the U.K.
company’s mere knowledge that its business partners may have
engaged in improper conduct isn’t enough for the Norex claims to
proceed against BP.  In court papers, the company argued that Norex “does not
 -- because it cannot -- allege that BP had any involvement in
the alleged illegal takeover.” Just because it received
dividends from TNK-BP as a shareholder and some portion of the
revenue may have come from Yugraneft doesn’t mean BP was
enriched at Norex’s expense, BP said.  The case is Norex Petroleum Ltd. v. Blavatnik, 650591-2011,
New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 