-- Brasil Foods Said to Seek Sale of 33% Stake in Argentina’s Quickfood
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2011-12-15T21:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/brasil-foods-said-to-seek-sale-of-33-stake-in-argentina-s-quickfood.html
BRF - Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3) , the world’s
largest poultry exporter, may sell a stake in meatpacker
 Quickfood SA (PATY)  to a group of Argentinean investors, according to a
person with knowledge of the discussions.  Sao Paulo-based Brasil Foods may sell as much as 33 percent
of Quickfood to a group led by Carlos Miguens, whose family was
the former controlling shareholder of Argentinean brewery
Quilmes Industrial SA, said the person, who asked not to be
named because the talks haven’t been announced publicly.
Quickfood is worth 394 million pesos ($92 million), based on its
share price on Dec. 7, the last time it was traded.  Brasil Foods is in the process of taking over Quickfood,
Argentina’s biggest meatpacker, from  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3)  and
would sell the stake after the deal is concluded, the person
said. The purchase may involve assets in Argentina including a
slaughterhouse, a processed-vegetables unit, a sausage and ham
operation, a distribution center and the Paty and Barny brands,
according to a presentation by Marfrig Alimentos on its website.  Brasil Foods owns 67 percent of Grupo Danica and Empresa
Avex in Argentina, while investors led by Miguens own the
remaining 33 percent. Brasil Foods plans to follow the same
model for Quickfood, the person said.  A request for comment from Miguens at his office in  Buenos
Aires  wasn’t returned. Brasil Foods declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News.  Brasil Foods rose 1.2 percent to 36.52 reais at the close
in  Sao Paulo . The shares have climbed 32 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with an 18 percent decline in
Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carlos Caminada at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net  