-- Brazil Rejects Bids in Dollar Repurchase Auction to Stem Liquidity Squeeze
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2011-12-15T14:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/brazil-central-bank-to-hold-currency-auction-today-1-.html
Brazil ’s central bank rejected all
bids in an auction today to sell and repurchase dollars aimed at
stemming a liquidity squeeze affecting local lenders.  The real extended gains after the central bank announced
that it was offering repo agreements for the first time since
the credit crunch following Lehman Brothers Holding Inc.’s 2008
collapse. Investors pulled $1.5 billion out of Brazil from Oct.
1 through Dec. 9 as they fled to lower risk investments to
protect themselves from the deepening European debt crisis.  While  Latin America ’s biggest economy isn’t facing a credit
crunch like there was in 2008, dollar-hoarding by banks is
“distorting” the foreign exchange market, driving down the
real and curtailing trade financing, said  Jankiel Santos , chief
economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank.  “This is going to interrupt the weakening trend of the
real, and it’s going to introduce some order into the market,
but it’s not going to really bring the real to a much lower
level,” Santos said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo .  The repo mechanism, which is the equivalent to lending
dollars to banks, is aimed at guaranteeing liquidity in the
interbank lending market. An official at the central bank, who
can’t be named due to internal policy, said that liquidity tends
to diminish toward the end of the year.  The bank in today’s auction offered to deliver dollars on
Dec. 19 and repurchase them on either Jan. 18 or Feb. 16.  Brazil’s currency has declined 8 percent against the dollar
in the past three months, the third-worst performance of the
world’s 16 most-traded currencies. The currency strengthened 1.2
percent as of 9:22 a.m. New York time, ending a three straight
sessions of losses.  The last time the repo mechanism was used was in April
2009, when the bank sold $500 million.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said from
 Washington  in September that policy makers stand ready to
provide necessary liquidity to ensure that foreign exchange
markets work “properly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  