-- Chevron Permanent Ban Sought by Brazil Prosecutor on Spill Off Rio Coast
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2011-12-15T23:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/brazil-prosecutor-says-seeking-permanent-ban-on-chevron.html
The Brazilian prosecutor who filed a
lawsuit against  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  said he’s
seeking a “permanent” ban on the companies’ operations in the
South American nation after an  oil spill  last month.  There is no timeline yet for a possible ruling in the lawsuit
that has been assigned to a federal judge, Eduardo Santos, the
federal prosecutor in Campos, in  Rio de Janeiro  state, told
reporters today.  Santos, who is suing Chevron and Transocean for 20 billion
reais ($10.8 billion), said previous fines against other companies
in the millions of reais haven’t prevented such accidents.  “Brazil has to change the paradigm from millions to
billions,” Santos said.  The case imperils Brazil’s plan to boost crude output because
Transocean operates 10 out of the 61 rigs working in the country
and it would be hard to replace them in a tight market for oil
equipment, said Judson Bailey, an analyst at Jefferies & Co.
Brazilian oil production growth slowed after the country increased
safety requirements following last year’s spill at  BP Plc ’s
Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico.  ‘Tight’ Market  “The rig market is pretty tight, so if Transocean were
banned, the  oil companies  wouldn’t be happy at all,” Bailey said
in a telephone interview from Houston. “Chevron and  Petrobras (PETR4) 
can’t get a rig elsewhere, so it messes with the state-owned  oil
company ,” he said, referring to Petroleo Brasileiro SA, known as
Petrobras.  Chevron, based in San Ramon, California, and Transocean,
based in Vernier, Switzerland, said yesterday they haven’t been
notified of legal action and are cooperating with authorities.  Chevron is committed to remaining in Brazil for the long term
and is working with federal agencies,  Ali Moshiri , vice president
for Africa and Latin American exploration and production, said at
an event in Houston, according to a report by Dow Jones Newswires.  Scott Walker , a Chevron spokesman, didn’t return calls
seeking comment today.  Chevron, Brazil’s third-largest producer behind Petrobras and
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , will see production wane in the South
American country until the government lets it drill again, said
Cleveland Jones, an oil specialist and professor at Rio de Janeiro
State University.  Chevron fell less than 1 percent to $99.67 at the close in
 New York . Transocean declined 1.9 percent to $39.41.  Macondo Blowout  Chevron has come under increased scrutiny in Brazil after
3,000 barrels of oil leaked last month from an oil field in deep
waters of the Campos Basin. The company underestimated the amount
of pressure at an oil deposit it was exploring, and crude leaked
from the reservoir for about eight days, George Buck, the head of
Chevron for  Brazil , said on Nov. 20.  BP has booked more than $40 billion in losses related to the
April 2010 blowout of the Macondo well in the Gulf. The accident
killed 11 workers aboard Transocean’s Deepwater Horizon well and
spilled 4.9 million barrels of crude. That’s about $8,163 per
barrel spilled, compared with $3.57 million per barrel if the
Brazilian fine were to hold.  “Ultimately this is an opening shot, Chevron’s attorneys are
probably not at all fazed by this,” said Jones. “The
prosecutor’s office will be a positive development for Chevron,
because they will ensure that the letter of the law is followed
and the letter of the law is reasonable.”  Criminal Lawsuit  Chevron said yesterday that it “responded responsibly to the
incident at its Frade Field and has dealt transparently with all
Brazilian authorities.”  Guy Cantwell , a Transocean spokesman,
said the company’s rigs are operating in Brazilian waters and the
company continues to cooperate with the government.  Chevron holds a 51.74 percent stake in Frade. Petrobras holds
a 30 percent stake, and Frade Japao Petroleo Ltda., a joint
venture including  Inpex Corp. (1605)  and  Sojitz Corp (2768) , holds 18.26 percent.
The Frade Field is about 230 miles (370 kilometers) northeast of
Rio de Janeiro and produced 76,000 barrels a day of oil and
natural gas in October.  In the next few weeks, prosecutors will probably file a
criminal lawsuit against Chevron for alleged environmental crime,
said Romulo Sampaio, a law professor at Brazil’s Getulio Vargas
Foundation.  “In this case, everything conspires against the company:
it’s a foreign company, drilling for oil in Brazilian waters,”
Sampaio, who coordinates the university’s Environmental Law
program, said in a telephone interview. “That may bring about
emotional responses.”  Amazon Destruction  Prosecutors’ track record in lawsuits against companies
involving environmental issues has been mixed. Federal prosecutors
twice this year sought to halt construction of the Belo Monte
hydroelectric dam in the Amazon, and on both occasions federal
judges ruled that the project should proceed.  Federal prosecutors in 2009 convinced Brazilian cattle
ranchers in Para, the state that has lost the most forestland to
illegal logging, to halt Amazon forest destruction to avoid an
international ban on meat.  Brazil’s five largest meatpackers --  JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s
largest beef producer,  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) , Bertin SA, Minerva SA
and Frigol Comercial Ltda. -- agreed to stop buying cattle from
suppliers that contributed to stripping the Amazon forest.  A lawsuit against  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  is pending after six years.
Federal and state prosecutors sued Alcoa’s Brazilian mining
subsidiary in 2005 to block construction of the Juruti bauxite
mine, saying the company had circumvented the law by not applying
for a federal permit and instead seeking a license from the state
of Para.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carlos Caminada at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net  