-- Study: Women More Ambitious in Brazil Than U.S.
-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2011-12-15T23:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/brazil-women-more-ambitious-than-u-s-counterparts-study-shows.html
Brazilian women are more ambitious
than their U.S. counterparts and aim to attain top jobs, a
report by the Center for Work-Life Policy shows.  At least 80 percent of college-educated Brazilian women
aspire to top-level positions, compared with 52 percent in the
U.S., and 59 percent of Brazilian women consider themselves
“very ambitious,” compared with 36 percent in the U.S.,
according to the study. Twenty-eight percent of women with a
college degree earn more than their husbands in Brazil, compared
with 20 percent in  China , 19 percent in  Russia  and 16 percent in
 India . In the U.S., 39 percent earn more than their husbands.  The study, which was presented in  Sao Paulo  today, drew on
an online survey and interviews with more than 4,000 men and
women with at least a bachelor’s degree equivalent in Brazil,
Russia, India, China and the  United Arab Emirates .  Quickening economic growth and rising costs of living have
propelled Brazilian women to aim high in their careers, said
Ripa Rashid, executive vice-president at the New York-based non-
profit research group. While growth has slowed this year as the
European debt crisis deepens, unemployment is at record lows and
some Brazilian cities are experiencing full employment.  “  Brazil ’s economy has been doing really well, so there
are opportunities for growth that are unparalleled and
unprecedented,” Rashid said in a phone interview from  New York 
on Dec. 12.  The Center for Work-Life Policy  analyzed surveys from a
minimum of 1,000 people in each of the BRIC nations and at least
200 in the U.A.E. in October 2009, as well as surveys of 2,952
college-educated people in the U.S. in February 2010. The study
was sponsored by five companies -- Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of Bloomberg News, Booz & Company,  Intel Corp ., Pfizer
Inc. and Siemens AG.  Female President  Gross domestic product growth in Brazil, the world’s
second-largest emerging market after China, will be 3 percent
this year after a 7.5 percent expansion in 2010, according to
Banco Bradesco SA. Unemployment fell to 5.8 percent in October,
a record low for the month, according to the government
statistics agency.  President  Dilma Rousseff , Brazil’s first female president,
is a much-needed role model for women, Rashid said. Rousseff’s
victory marked a milestone for a country where only one of the
68 companies that form the  Bovespa (IBOV)  benchmark stock index is run
by a female executive. Rousseff named at least eight women to
cabinet posts and has made female empowerment a key objective in
her government.  The study found that the biggest barriers women face in
advancing their careers is the lack of mentors and the need to
care for elderly parents.  “In Brazil, they are much less likely to have senior-level
relationships, which is critical to advancement,” Rashid said.  Untapped Resource  Women hold 29 percent of senior positions in privately held
companies in Brazil and are chief executive officers of 11
percent of large companies, compared with 20 percent and 3
percent, respectively, in the U.S., the study says. Among
privately held companies, 59 percent have women in their
ownership structure, greater than the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development average of 32 percent.  As skilled workers become scarce in Brazil’s labor market,
women represent an untapped resource that can supply talent to
support economic growth, according to the study. Sixty percent
of university graduates entering Brazil’s labor force are women,
and the rising cost of living means that more women will begin
working in the next few years.  Those who make more than their husbands are encouraged to
keep that fact within the family circle. While male chauvinism
isn’t explicit in Brazil, most men are uncomfortable with their
wives bringing home bigger paychecks, Rashid said.  Elderly Care  “We found that men are proud that their wives work, in
general, most of them don’t want others to know that she earns
more money than he does,” she said.  Sixty-nine percent of the women in the survey help shoulder
financial costs for taking care of elderly relatives, compared
with 48 percent in the U.S. The financial support averages
13,000 reais ($7,000), or 23 percent of their annual income,
according to the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  