-- Brazil Real Advances First Day in Four on Dollar Auction, European Outlook
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2011-12-15T17:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/brazil-real-advances-first-day-in-four-on-dollar-auction-european-outlook.html
Brazil ’s real gained for the first
day in four after the central bank said it will lend dollars to
help exporters, adding to the supply of the U.S. currency.  The real rose 1.1 percent to 1.8596 per dollar at 3:12 p.m.
in Sao Paulo, from 1.8799 yesterday. Brazil’s central bank
rejected all bids at its auction today to sell dollars with an
agreement to repurchase them at a later date.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said Brazil wants to use the
auctions to help exporters should the global economic outlook
worsen, O Estado de S. Paulo reported, citing an interview with
the minister. The auctions can provide a  credit line  to
exporters for trade financing as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbs the
supply of dollars, said Jose Marcio Camargo, an economist at
Opus Gestao de Recursos Ltda. in  Rio de Janeiro .  “We had a reduction in the supply of credit in Brazil
because of the European crisis,” Camargo said in a telephone
interview. “The central bank is trying to avoid a problem. It’s
more of a preventative action.”  The repo mechanism, which is the equivalent of lending
dollars to banks, hasn’t been used since liquidity dried up in
the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in 2008.
Investors pulled $1.5 billion out of Brazil from Oct. 1 through
Dec. 9 as they fled to lower-risk investments to protect
themselves from the deepening European debt crisis.  Brazil’s currency has declined 8.1 percent against the
dollar in the past three months, the third-worst performance of
the world’s 16 most-traded currencies.  The central bank wants to limit the real’s decline so it
can continue cutting  interest rates  and keep inflation under
control, said Ram Bala Chandran, a Latin American currency and
rates strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York .  “It’s very hard to target the level of the currency, but
on lowering volatility, they will definitely achieve that,” he
said. “The only way to help exporters is to remove the carry
trade from the real, and they’re basically working towards it.”  European Crisis  Today’s auction didn’t result in any sales because
investors put in bids that were too low, Italo Abucater, head of
 currency trading  at ICAP Brasil SA in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview.  “The market tried to buy dollars at yesterday’s rates,”
when the real was weaker, Abucater said. “The central bank
didn’t want to sell.”  The bank in today’s auction offered to deliver dollars on
Dec. 19 and repurchase them on either Jan. 18 or Feb. 16.  The last time the repo mechanism was used was in April
2009, when the bank sold $500 million.  The real pared gains after the head of the  International
Monetary Fund  said the European debt crisis is escalating to the
point that it will not be solved by one group of countries,
tempering optimism the crisis will be contained.  U.S. Data  The number of applications for  unemployment benefits  in the
U.S. unexpectedly dropped last week to the lowest level in three
years, showing the U.S. labor market is improving and
strengthening global growth optimism.  Yields on most interest-rate futures contracts rose after
Brazilian prices rose 0.19 percent in the 30 days to Dec. 10
after a 0.44 percent increase a month earlier, according to the
Getulio Vargas Foundation’s IGP-10 inflation report. This
month’s reading trailed the 0.35 percent median estimate of 29
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  This month’s report showed consumer prices up 0.65 percent,
while wholesale prices declined 0.03 percent.  “Even though the IGP-10 slowed, consumer prices sped up,”
Mauricio Nakahodo, senior economist at CM Capital Markets Ltda
in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone interview. “The fact that the
external scenario is a little better helps pressure the yield
curve.”  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
2014 rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 10.27
percent. Yields on the contract due in January 2013 were
unchanged at 9.9 percent after earlier rising as much as three
basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  