-- HTC, Avago, Apple, Shanda, Righthaven: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2011-12-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/htc-avago-apple-shanda-righthaven-intellectual-property.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , the largest smartphone
vendor in the U.S., said a decision on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s bid to stop
some of the Taiwanese company’s imports has been delayed a
second time.  The International Trade Commission was set to announce a
ruling in  Washington  yesterday on whether HTC infringed patents
owned by Apple. Publication of the verdict was delayed to
Dec. 19, HTC said in an e-mailed statement. The ITC originally
scheduled the announcement for Dec. 6 before postponing it a
first time. No reason was given.  A decision for Cupertino, California-based Apple could
result in a ban or limits on imports of HTC phones into the U.S.
An outcome favoring Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC could help the
company in separate cases brought by the iPhone maker alleging
infringements of its  intellectual-property  patents.  Calls and e-mails to officials at the ITC and Apple weren’t
immediately answered outside U.S. business hours.  HTC also filed a complaint with the same trade agency
alleging Apple infringed its own patents.  Apple’s case against HTC is In the Matter of Certain
Personal Data and Mobile Communications Devices and Related
Software, 337-710.  HTC’s case against Apple is In the Matter of Portable
Electronic Devices with Communication Capabilities, 337-721,
both U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  Avago Drops Patent Infringement Suit Against Cypress  Avago Technologies Ltd. (AVGO)  has dropped its patent infringement
suit against Cypress Semiconductor Corp., according to court
filings.  The Singapore-based semiconductor maker sued Cypress in
federal court in  Delaware  in January, claiming that its patents
were infringed by Cypress products.  In the course of the suit, each company claimed five of its
patents were infringed by the other side.  In a Dec. 12  statement ,  San Jose , California-based Cypress
said that it paid no damages and admitted no infringement.  The case is Avago Technologies U.S. Inc., v.  Cypress
Semiconductor Corp. (CY) , 1:11-cv-00071-SLR, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Apple Founder Jobs Commemorated in Patent Office Exhibition  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is honoring the late
 Steve Jobs  with an exhibit of the more than 300 issued patents
that bear his name, together with many of the trademarks
belonging to the company he and fellow computer enthusiast Steve
Wozniak founded, according to a patent office  statement .  The exhibit commemorates Apple Inc.’s founder Jobs, who
died Oct. 5 of pancreatic cancer. It runs through Jan. 15 in the
atrium of the patent office’s Madison Building in Alexandria,
Virginia. It’s free and open to the public from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Monday to Friday, and on Saturdays from noon to 5 p.m.  Jobs’s patents and trademarks “provide a striking example
of the importance intellectual property plays in the global
marketplace,” David Kappos, the undersecretary of commerce for
intellectual property and director of the patent office, said in
the statement.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Shanda’s Suit Over ‘Dragon Nest’ Trademark Goes to Trial  Shanda Interactive Entertainment Ltd. (SNDA) ’s trademark suit
against Shenzhen Teelio Technology Co. has gone to trial,
 according to  the EastDay.com news website.  The suit is over the Chinese name “Dragon Nest” used for
a Shanda game, which allegedly infringes a trademark belonging
to Shenzhen Teelio Technology Co. according to the website.  Before trial Teelio had asked Shanda for either 56 million
yuan ($8.8 million) to buy the mark outright, or an annual
licensing fee of 12 million yuan, the website reported.  Shanghai-based Shanda, which agreed last month to be taken
private through a buyout offer from its chief executive and his
family, is arguing that the two companies’ trademarks are
registered for different categories, and that no infringement
actually occurred, according to EastDay.com.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Righthaven Assets Reduced to ‘Legal Memorabilia,’ Defendant Says  Righthaven LLC, the Las Vegas-based company that’s been
attempting to enforce copyrights for Stephens Media Group’s
publications, must come to court and reveal the location of its
assets.  In a Dec. 12 order, a federal magistrate judge said two
Righthaven officials must appear in federal court in  Las Vegas 
Jan. 5 to “provide testimony under oath” about the assets the
company possesses.  Also on Dec. 12, the magistrate judge granted the defendant
Wayne Hoehn’s request to be assigned Righthaven’s intellectual
property. Righthaven sued Hoehn in January, accusing him of
infringement for allegedly posting content from the Las Vegas
Review-Journal to his “Dogs that Bark” blog. The court found
that Righthaven lacked the standing to sue Hoehn because it
didn’t have complete control over the copyrighted material he
allegedly infringed.  In earlier court filings, Righthaven had sought to stay a
damages award, saying it possessed valuable intellectual
property in the form of software it used to search the Internet
for potentially infringing content. The company claimed that
should the IP be awarded to any of the more than 100 defendants
it has sued in the past year, the software could be reverse
engineered by the very people it had been invented to pursue.  In seeking assignment of the Righthaven intellectual
property, counsel for Hoehn argued yesterday that the notoriety
the company achieved through its unsuccessful copyright
enforcement campaign enhanced the value of its intellectual
property, including its trademark and Internet domain name.  “The public has a palpable interest in Righthaven and it
is foreseeable that Righthaven’s assets will take on the form of
‘legal memorabilia’ and thus their auction price would be higher
than their inherent value.”  Hoehn said in a filing that his lawyers have already
received requests for the Righthaven IP “from curious
collectors and other parties who wish to have a piece of
Righthaven memorabilia.”  He noted that a federal judge
permitted the auction of personal items belonging to convicted
Unabomber Ted Kaczynski to satisfy a restitution agreement.  In a declaration filed with the request for the IP, one of
Hoehn’s lawyers said he has been contacted by people who wanted
to buy anything related to Righthaven, including its office
artwork, office supplies such as staplers and lamps, and a
Bluetooth headset worn by Righthaven Chief Executive Officer
Steven Gibson.  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Hoehn, 2:11-cv-00050-PMP-RJJ,
U.s. District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  Technology Executives Attack Anti-Piracy Bills in Congress  Founders of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , PayPal Inc.,  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and other
Internet executives published an open letter in newspapers
criticizing Hollywood-backed anti-piracy legislation in
Congress.  “We urge Congress to think hard before changing the
regulation that underpins the Internet,” the companies said in
letter that was sent to members of Congress and appeared
yesterday in newspapers including the  New York  Times, Wall
Street Journal and the Washington Post.  Lobbying by Internet companies and movie studios has
intensified as the House Judiciary Committee prepares to vote
today on its version of the Hollywood-supported measure.  For more copyright news, click here  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Facebook Hacker Admits Actions, to Be Sentenced in February  A U.K. student whose actions triggered an industrial-
espionage alert at Facebook Inc. has admitted hacking into the
 Palo Alto , California-based company’s website and faces
sentencing Feb. 17, the  BBC   reported .  Glenn Mangham, 26, told the court that his actions were
only intended to show Facebook how to improve its security,
according to the BBC.  The hacking was so “effective and egregious” that even
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  was concerned, government
prosecutor Sandip Patel told the court, the BBC reported.  Mangham’s defense counsel had argued that his client was
ethical, and operated with a “high moral stance,” according to
the BBC.  IP Moves  McGlinchey Stafford Adds Coca-Cola Patent Counsel to IP Practice  McGlinchey Stafford PLLC  hired Hoang M. “Wayne” Vo for
its IP group, the New Orleans-based firm said in a  statement .  Vo  previously was with the  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , where he did
patent-acquisition and IP-related transactional work. Before he
became a lawyer, Vo was part of a research group that
synthesized a drug used to treat AIDS.  He has an undergraduate degree in chemistry and a master’s
degree in organic chemistry from Emory University and a law
degree from Georgia State University.  McCarter & English Expands IP Practice with Hire From Proskauer  McCarter & English LLP  hired Deborah M. Vernon for its
intellectual property/information technology group, the  Newark ,
New Jersey-based firm said in a statement.  Vernon, who previously practiced at New York’s  Proskauer
Rose LLP , does patent acquisition work for clients whose
technology included superconductors, semiconductors,
photovoltatics, plasma science, ceramics, thin film technology,
nanophase and composite materials, spectroscopy, analytical
chemistry, medical devices and instrumentation, and mechanical
engineering.  She has an undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering
from Trinity College, a master’s degree and a doctorate in
material science from Brown University and a law degree from
Suffolk Law School.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 