-- Cablevision Slides After COO Rutledge Resigns Without Providing a Reason
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2011-12-16T14:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/cablevision-s-rutledge-to-resign-after-reshaping-company-1-.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  dropped
the most in seven weeks after saying Chief Operating Officer Tom Rutledge will step down this month for undisclosed reasons.  Rutledge, 58, will leave effective Dec. 19, according to a
regulatory filing. He joined in 2002 and has reshaped
Cablevision as operating chief since 2004. The Bethpage, New
York-based company is seeking a successor to oversee its cable
operations, according to a statement yesterday.  Rutledge transformed Cablevision into a cable
infrastructure-focused company after it spun off  Madison Square
Garden Co. (MSG)  and AMC Networks Inc. in the last two years.
Cablevision, the fifth-largest U.S. cable operator by
subscribers, added assets with the $1.37 billion purchase last
year of Bresnan Communications LLC.  “This is a staggering loss,” said  Craig Moffett , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in New York. “Tom Rutledge is
the hands-down-best executive in the cable business.”  Cablevision fell 13 percent to $12.09 at 9:48 a.m. in New
York after earlier losing as much as 15 percent for the steepest
intraday drop since Oct. 28. The shares have fallen 41 percent
this year before today and 46 percent since AMC was spun off
July 1.  Vijay Jayant, an analyst with International Strategy &
Investment Group, called Rutledge’s departure a “bombshell”
and lowered his price target for Cablevision to $17 from $25.  Investor Reaction  Investors will punish Cablevision as long as there is
uncertainty about who will replace Rutledge, Jayant wrote in a
research note.  “For Cablevision investors (still) in it for the long
haul, we believe they’d better hope that the right person is
found, and found soon,” Jayant wrote.  Rutledge was inducted into the Broadcasting & Cable Hall of
Fame this year after 34 years in the cable industry. He was  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) ’s president before Cablevision Chief Executive
Officer  James Dolan  hired him as president of cable and
communications.  “Tom Rutledge has played a key role in driving and shaping
Cablevision’s success over the last decade, applying a rare
combination of technological vision and operational
excellence,” Dolan said in the statement.  Rutledge’s departure follows that of John Bickham, who
succeeded Rutledge in 2004 as president of cable and
communications. Bickham announced his resignation last month.  CEO Mike Lovett of St. Louis-based  Charter Communications
Inc. (CHTR) , the fourth-largest U.S. cable company, has said he will
step down by April 30. Charter hasn’t announced Lovett’s
successor.  A Cablevision spokesman,  Jim Maiella , declined in an e-mail
to comment beyond the statement, and said Rutledge declined to
elaborate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  