-- Cameron Climbs in YouGov Poll After Refusing to Join Pact to Rescue Euro
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2011-12-15T13:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/cameron-climbs-in-yougov-poll-after-refusing-to-join-pact-to-rescue-euro.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
personal poll ratings improved and his  Conservative Party  moved
ahead of the opposition after he refused to join in a European
Union-wide pact to rescue the euro, YouGov Plc said.  The percentage of respondents who say Cameron “sticks to
what he believes in” rose to 39 percent in a survey published
today from 26 percent before the premier made his stand at an EU
summit in Brussels last week. The number viewing him as
“decisive” increased to 29 percent from 20 percent. Cameron’s
scores rose for six of eight attributes voters were questioned
about.  The boost draws parallels with a turnabout in the fortunes
of a previous Tory premier,  Margaret Thatcher , at the time of
the 1982 Falklands War with Argentina, YouGov President Peter Kellner said. “Cameron seems to be benefiting from a ‘Europe
Factor,’” he noted, while warning that it’s far too early to
tell if the poll gain will last.  “The broad parallels with the early stages of the
Falklands War are uncanny,” Kellner said in an  e-mailed
commentary . “Then, as now, Britain’s prime minister gained
credit for decisive action and escaped public blame for the
failings that precipitated the crisis. Then, as now, soaring
personal ratings of a Conservative leader converted into extra
support for their party.”  ‘Diplomatic Fiasco’  Kellner compared the “diplomatic fiasco” of British
officials failing to detect the threat of an invasion of the
Falklands, known in  Argentina  as the Malvinas, with the failure
of ministers and officials to prepare the ground before the EU
summit. Cameron blocked a treaty change backed by other EU
members over concerns it might harm  London ’s finance industry.  The improvement in Cameron’s personal ratings comes as
those of Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  and
opposition  Labour Party  leader  Ed Miliband  continue to decline,
YouGov said.  Support for the Conservatives was at 40 percent in today’s
YouGov tracker poll for the Sun newspaper, compared with 38
percent for Labour and 10 percent for the  Lib Dems . That echoed
the 2-point Conservative lead the previous day “after a year
of almost unbroken Labour leads,” Kellner said.  YouGov surveyed 1,751 adults on Dec. 13 and yesterday for
its  latest poll , for which no margin of error was given. The
pre-summit ratings for Cameron are from a survey carried out
Dec. 4-5, four days before the Brussels talks.  To be sure, Kellner said, a parallel with another Tory
premier might serve as a warning for Cameron. Anthony Eden
“remained popular for some weeks” after invading  Egypt  in
1956.  “But eventually the scale of the catastrophe became clear,
Eden resigned, and ‘Suez’ became the four-letter word that
defined Britain’s greatest post-war foreign-policy disaster,”
Kellner wrote. “It may be well into next year before we know
whether Cameron’s stand within the EU ends up like the Falklands
victory, the Suez debacle, or something completely different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  