-- Canada Third Quarter Capacity Utilization Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2011-12-15T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/canada-third-quarter-capacity-utilization-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's capacity utilization report for the third quarter
released by  Statistics Canada .  Canadian industries operated at 81.3% of their
production capacity in the third quarter, up 1.4
percentage points from 79.9% in the previous quarter.  This increase in the industrial capacity utilization
rate was widespread. It comes from 13 of the 21 major
manufacturing industries and from all non-manufacturing
industries covered except for the forestry and logging
industry.  Renewed growth following a dip in the previous quarter  Manufacturing: Transportation equipment industry biggest
contributor to the rise in capacity utilization  Capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector
increased from 79.5% in the second quarter to 81.1% in the
third quarter.  The manufacturing transportation equipment industry was
by far the largest contributor to the increase in capacity
use in the manufacturing sector. Capacity use in this
industry rose 7.1 percentage points in the third quarter
to 89.1% following a decline of 2.1 percentage points in
the previous quarter.  Significant gains in  motor vehicle  and parts
manufacturing, ship and boat building, and railroad
rolling stock manufacturing led this growth. Motor vehicle
and parts production rose sharply compared with the
previous quarter. However, second quarter production was
substantially reduced by supply chain disruptions
following the tsunami in  Japan . In comparison, the
production level in the third quarter, for all practical
purposes, returned to the first quarter level, which was
slightly affected by the natural disaster.  Other major contributors to the rise in the
manufacturing sector were machinery, chemical products,
beverages, metal products and paper.  Higher production of agricultural, construction and
mining machinery, along with metalworking machinery,
helped to increase the capacity utilization rate in the
machinery manufacturing industry from 86.1% to 91.0%.  The chemical manufacturing industry saw its capacity
utilization increase from 77.7% to 82.1%, mainly as a
result of the expanded production of pharmaceuticals and
medicine.  Soft drink manufacturers, breweries, wineries and
distilleries all increased production in the third quarter
after reporting a decline in the previous quarter. This
turnaround enabled them to raise their capacity use from
70.4% to 75.2%.  Manufacturing: Capacity utilization rate gradually
approaching 2007 level  The overall manufacturing industry increase was limited
by declines, particularly in the food, electrical
equipment, appliance and component, plastics and primary
metal industries.  A decline in production in the third quarter for almost
all food categories reduced the capacity use in the food
manufacturing industry from 80.3% to 77.8%.  The electrical equipment, appliance and component
manufacturing industry operated at 68.3% of its capacity,
down from 72.2% in the previous quarter. This decline was
a result of weaker demand for household appliances,
electrical equipment and other electrical equipment except
lighting.  Non-manufacturing: Strength in the mining and oil and gas
extraction industry  In the non-manufacturing sector, capacity utilization
increased in all industries except forestry and logging.  Capacity use in the mining and oil and gas extraction
industry increased from 79.7% in the second quarter to
82.1% in the third quarter. Higher demand for support
services for mining and oil and gas extraction, combined
with increased oil extraction, more than offset the
decline in gas extraction.  Despite a decrease in non-residential construction,
stronger activity in residential construction and
engineering enabled the  construction industry  to operate
at 77.3% capacity, up slightly from 76.7% in the second
quarter.  The electric power generation, transmission and
distribution industry saw its rate edge up from 91.1% to
91.3% in response to weak growth in electricity demand.  Note to readers  The industrial capacity utilization rate is the ratio
of an industry's actual output to its estimated potential
output. For most industries, the annual estimates are
obtained from the Capital and Repair Expenditures Survey
while the quarterly pattern is derived from output-to-
capital ratio series, the output being the real gross
domestic product at factor cost, seasonally adjusted, by
industry.  This program covers all manufacturing and selected non-
manufacturing industries.  At the time of this release, rates have been revised
back to the first quarter of 2006 to reflect updated
source data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  