-- Canada’s Dollar Advances From Two-Week Low on Stronger U.S. Economic Data
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2011-12-15T22:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/canadian-dollar-strengthens-from-a-two-week-low-as-european-concern-eases.html
Canada ’s currency advanced from
almost its lowest level in two weeks as U.S. reports on
employment and manufacturing indicated Canada’s biggest trading
partner’s economy is recovering.  The Canadian dollar, known as the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose for the first time in
four days versus its U.S. counterpart as  Spain  sold almost twice
its maximum target at a debt auction, easing funding concern
related to sovereign-debt turmoil.  “As we continue to see U.S. data on an improving trend,
that is positive for the loonie because it means better demand
for Canadian exports,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in
 Washington  at Travelex Global Business Payments, a currency-
exchange network. “Riskier currencies are staging a little bit
of a comeback.”  The loonie appreciated 0.4 percent to C$1.0351 after
yesterday reaching C$1.0424, the weakest since Nov. 28. One
Canadian dollar buys 96.61 U.S. cents.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.3 percent, and
Canada’s benchmark  S&P/TSX Composite Index  fell 0.3 percent.  Canada’s government bonds rose, pushing the  yield  on the
10-year benchmark down three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 1.93 percent. The 3.25 percent securities due in June
2021 gained 25 cents to C$111.40.  Canadian Housing  Existing home sales in November rose at their slowest pace
in three months, the  Canadian Real Estate Association  said,
adding to evidence the country’s housing market is cooling.  Seasonally adjusted home sales advanced 0.5 percent from
last month to 38,897 units, the Ottawa-based real-estate agency
said in an e-mailed statement. Purchases rose 5 percent from a
year earlier, the slowest pace since May, while  home prices 
posted the smallest annual increase since January.  Manufacturing  in New York, northern New Jersey and southern
 Connecticut  expanded in December more than forecast to the
highest level in seven months as measures of employment and new
orders improved. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic index rose to 9.5, from 0.6 in November. Economists
projected the gauge would rise to 3, based on the median of 55
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings greater than zero
indicate expansion.  The Philadelphia Fed’s general economic index for eastern
 Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and Delaware increased to 10.3
in December from 3.6 last month. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News forecast the gauge would advance to 5, according
to the median of 57 estimates that ranged from zero to 12.  “The Philly Fed number particularly was a strong one,”
said Thomas Molloy, chief dealer at FX Solutions, a currency
brokerage, in Saddle River, New Jersey. “Today we had some
numbers out of the U.S. that were actually not so bad and would
probably play into the risk-on trade if the rest of the world
were not so ugly.”  The loonie has lost 2.3 percent this year, while the dollar
has appreciated 2.1 percent and the 17-nation euro has lost 0.6
percent, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, a gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  