-- Canadian Stocks Fall for Fourth Day on Global Growth Concern
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2011-12-15T21:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/canadian-stocks-rise-after-spanish-bond-sale-surpasses-target.html
Canadian stocks  fell for a fourth
day as mining and industrial stocks dropped amid concern slowing
growth in China and a prolonged European debt crisis will hinder
a global economic recovery.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest gold producer,
dropped 1.5 percent as the metal declined after settling at the
lowest price since July yesterday.  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) 
decreased 1.6 percent as a report showed manufacturing in China
may contract for a second month and International Monetary Fund
Managing Director Christine Lagarde said Europe’s debt crisis is
escalating.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  retreated 38.63
points, or 0.3 percent, to 11,504.42. The benchmark gauge has
dropped 4.4 percent since Dec. 9, poised for its worst week
since September.  “Clearly what’s happening is you’ve got this macro
problem,” Irwin Michael, a  money manager  at ABC Funds in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees C$1
billion ($967 million). “It appears like the sky is falling.
It’s scaring off a lot of investors -- why do anything just
before you take your Christmas holiday?”  The S&P/TSX fell this week after Moody’s Investors Service
said it will review European Union countries’ ratings and the
U.S. Federal Reserve declined to begin a third round of asset
purchases to spur economic growth. The index has plunged 14
percent this year, which would be its second-biggest annual
retreat in the last 20 years behind that of 2008.  Slowdown in China  Manufacturing in  China  probably contracted this month,
according to a survey by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.
The country’s foreign direct investment fell last month for the
first time since 2009, the Ministry of Commerce said.  U.S. industrial production slipped 0.2 percent last month,
the Federal Reserve said today in Washington. Most economists in
a Bloomberg survey had forecast an increase.  Lagarde, speaking at the State Department in Washington,
said the European debt crisis is growing to the point that it
won’t be solved by one group of countries. If countries don’t
work together, the world will face a situation similar to the
1930s, before the world slid into World War II, she said.  The  S&P/TSX Materials Index (STMATR)  dropped, led by gold producers,
after closing at the lowest since August 2010 yesterday. Barrick
slipped 1.5 percent to C$45.79, a sixth-straight retreat.
 Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. (AEM) , Canada’s sixth-biggest gold producer by
market value, declined 5.6 percent to C$37.92, the lowest since
December 2008.  Nevsun Resources Ltd. (NSU) , which mines precious and
base metals in Eritrea, sank 13 percent to C$5.10.  Added to Index  First Majestic Silver Corp., (FR)  which operates in Mexico,
jumped 9.3 percent to C$16.60. The company will be added to the
NYSE Arca Gold Miners Index on Dec. 19, Todd Anthony, investor-
relations manager for First Majestic, said in a telephone
interview. The index is used for the $8.56 billion Market
Vectors Gold Miners ETF.  Base-metals producers retreated as copper slumped to a
seven-week low.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s biggest
industrial-metals and coal producer, lost 1.9 percent to
C$34.43.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , the country’s second-
largest publicly traded copper producer, decreased 2 percent to
C$18.18.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s largest oil and gas producer,
fell 1.9 percent to C$27.59 as crude oil dropped to the lowest
in six weeks.  Commodity Market  “The one thing that tends to move the Canadian market more
is the price of commodities,” Timothy Lazaris, chief executive
officer of Red Sky Capital Management Ltd. in Toronto, which
oversees C$54 million, said in a telephone interview. “There’s
been some weak data in China” where demand is especially
important to Canada because “we sell a lot of base metals and a
lot of material into the global commodity cycle.”  Industrial companies  in the S&P/TSX retreated, led by
railroads. CN, Canada’s biggest railroad, fell 1.6 percent to
C$75 to extend its four-day drop to 5 percent.  Canadian Pacific
Railway Ltd. (CP)  declined 2.5 percent to C$63.86, ending a six-day
streak of gains.  Finning International Inc. (FTT) , the world’s largest Caterpillar
dealer, tumbled 5.5 percent to C$22.05 after forecasting a 5
percent increase in sales next year. Analysts, on average,
estimated C$6.11 billion, a 10 percent gain from C$5.55 billion
this year, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Canaccord Financial Inc. (CF) , Canada’s largest non-bank
brokerage, fell 8.2 percent to C$7.80 after agreeing to buy
London-based Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Plc for 253.3 million
pounds ($393 million). Canaccord’s closing price was the lowest
since July 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  