-- Canada to Gain $131 Billion With Access to Asian Oil Markets, Study Says
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2011-12-15T17:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/canada-to-gain-131-billion-with-access-to-asian-oil-markets-study-says.html
Pipelines from  Canada ’s oil sands to
the Pacific coast, including  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s proposed Northern
Gateway route to tap markets in  Asia , will raise the price
received by producers by $13.60 a barrel by 2030, a university
study said.  The extra profit would mean an additional C$131 billion
($127 billion) for Canada’s economy between 2016 and 2030,
according to a study by the University of Calgary’s School of
Public Policy. It would also add 649,000 person years of
employment and generate  tax revenue  for provincial and federal
governments, the report said.  Without access to markets in Asia, where fuel demand is
growing faster than in the U.S., Canada is not able to earn
world market prices, the study said. Currently, about 99 percent
of Canadian crude exports is shipped to its largest trading
partner, with most of it ending up in the Midwest and resulting
in “substantially” lower prices than crude varieties such as
Louisiana Light Sweet.  “Given Canada’s proximity and long history of supplying
the U.S. with crude oil products, natural gas and electricity,
the design and demand characteristics of U.S. energy markets
largely dictate  price levels ,” the study said. “The
opportunity to achieve these new price and processing levels
produces substantial returns for Canadian resources.”  Enbridge, based in Calgary, is proposing to build a twin
pipeline system between Alberta and the coast of British
Columbia to help bring crude from oil-sands projects to market.
Further south, Kinder Morgan Inc. aims to expand capacity on its
TransMountain pipeline that ends in  Vancouver .  Spill Risk  Opposition to the Northern Gateway pipeline from native and
environmental groups has focused on the risk of a spill along
the route or on the British Columbian coastline, which is home
to killer whales, sea otters and other marine life.  The Northern Gateway system would cross more than 785
streams and rivers, putting at risk commercial and recreational
salmon fishing industries with a combined C$800 million in
annual revenue, the  Natural Resources Defense Council , Pembina
Institute and Living Oceans Society said in a joint report on
Nov. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  