-- Chimpanzee Use in Research Should Be Restricted, Panel Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2011-12-15T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/chimpanzee-use-in-research-should-be-restricted-panel-says.html
Chimpanzees aren’t necessary for
most medical research and shouldn’t be used in experiments
unless there’s no alternative for life-threatening diseases, a
U.S. science panel said.  The U.S. should restrict the use of chimpanzees and require
the animals be housed in “ethologically appropriate”
environments or in natural habitats, the  Institute of Medicine ,
a nonprofit committee that advises Congress and the government,
recommended in a report today.  The review was sought by the U.S. National Institutes in
response to complaints from U.S. senators and animal-rights
groups. The U.S. and Gabon are the only countries that allow
experimentation on the animals.  “Most current use of chimpanzees for biomedical research
is unnecessary,” the committee said in its report. Only the
U.S. and Gabon allow experiments on the animals.  There were 937 chimpanzees in captivity in the U.S. for
medical research as of May, according to the science panel. The
NIH owns or supports 436 of them, including 176 as of April at a
New Mexico facility where no invasive research is allowed.  The NIH, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , stopped breeding the
chimpanzees in 1995, and the population is expected to die off
by 2037, the nonprofit said. Animal rights groups led by the
Washington-based  Humane Society  of the  United States  have called
on Congress and the government to end chimpanzee research.  Consistent With Call  The committee’s recommendation “is consistent with what
we’ve been calling for: a phase-out of invasive work,” said
Kathleen Conlee, senior director for animal research issues at
the Humane Society, in a telephone interview.  Francis Collins , the director of the NIH, said the
recommendations “are thoughtful and scientifically well-
founded.” He said he “intends to adopt the panel’s general
conclusions,” according to an e-mail from an institute
spokeswoman.  The only fields of research in which chimpanzee testing
might be useful, the committee said, are vaccines for hepatitis
C and treatments that employ monoclonal antibodies such as  Roche
Holding AG (ROG) ’s Herceptin for  breast cancer .  An “immediate, outright ban” on experiments in
chimpanzees would be “disruptive” to researchers, the panel
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  