-- China’s Treasury Stake Fell in October as Europe Crisis Slows Cash Flows
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2011-12-15T22:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/china-s-treasury-stake-falls-in-october-as-europe-crisis-slows-cash-flows.html
China’s holdings  of U.S. Treasury
debt fell in October as the European sovereign-debt crisis
curbed the pace of foreign investment in the world’s most
populous country, reducing its need to buy Treasuries.  China ’s stake in U.S. government securities shrank by 1.2
percent, or $14.2 billion, in October to $1.13 trillion,
according to Treasury data released yesterday. The nation’s bill
holdings fell 41 percent to $2.6 billion. Holdings of Treasuries
by  U.K. buyers , who are often seen as a proxy for Chinese
investors operating away from the mainland, declined for the
first time since June 2010.  The decrease by China was the result of a slowdown in
foreign direct  investment  into the country on concern a slowdown
in the European economy would curb global growth, said Amitabh Arora, an interest-rate strategist in New York at Citigroup
Inc., one of the 21 primary dealers that trade Treasuries with
the  Federal Reserve .  “The hot-money inflows that China was getting have
reversed to some extent,” Arora said. “The central bank isn’t
buying as much foreign currency from exporters and portfolio
investments; therefore it has fewer dollars to invest. It’s very
directly related to the sovereign crisis in  Europe .”  China’s trade surplus in October was less than forecast,
with exports exceeding imports by $17 billion, compared with a
median estimate from 24 economists of $25.8 billion, according
to the China Economic Information Network, limiting the amount
of dollars that needed to be invested in U.S. securities.  Foreign Holdings Fall  Total foreign holdings of Treasuries fell by 0.1 percent in
October to $4.66 trillion, U.S. government data show. Foreigners
held 47.8 percent of the $9.75 trillion of outstanding public
Treasury debt, down from 48.4 percent the month before.  Holdings in the U.K. fell 3.1 percent to $408.4 billion,
Treasury data show. Investors in the U.K. have increased their
holdings 51 percent this year.  Treasuries lost 0.76 percent in October, the most since
December 2010, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Treasury master index. Equities rebounded from five months of
losses, the longest streak since 2008, after European leaders
persuaded bondholders to take 50 percent losses on Greek debt
and boosted a rescue fund to 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion).  The  U.S. economy  grew at the fastest pace in a year, 2
percent, during the third quarter as Americans increased
spending and companies bought more machinery and software.  China’s holdings of  U.S. debt  have fallen 2.2 percent this
year through October to $1.13 trillion, the least since July
2010, when they totaled $1.12 trillion, from $1.16 trillion at
the end of 2010, Treasury data show.  Revisions Likely  The data are expected to be revised in 2012. On Feb. 28,
the U.S. updated earlier estimates, showing China’s Treasury
investments in October 2010 were a record $1.18 trillion, 30
percent more than the initial estimate of $906.8 billion.  Treasuries  held in custody  by the Fed for foreign central
banks have increased 4.1 percent this year to $2.72 trillion,
the smallest increase since 2005 when the holdings rose 3.5
percent for the full year.  Holdings of Treasuries by foreign official accounts fell
0.7 percent in October to $3.24 trillion, the lowest since July,
Treasury data show. They have increased 2.4 percent this year.  “We started to get hints through the custody holdings data
that foreign official accounts from early October on were
starting to become less enamored of the Treasury market, which
somewhat coincides with” 10-year yields trading in a range
around 2 percent, said  John Briggs , a U.S. government bond
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , a primary dealer. “Two percent’s
not doing a lot for them, it appears.”  Japanese Holdings  Japan , the second-largest foreign holder of the debt,
 increased its position  2.3 percent to $979 billion after raising
its stake 2.2 percent in September and 2.4 percent in August,
Treasury data show.  Japanese holdings rose as Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said
Oct. 31 that he was prepared to continue currency-market
intervention in order to weaken the yen and boost exports.
Credit Suisse Group AG analysts estimated Japan sold more than
$50 billion of yen on Oct. 30.  Foreign holdings of U.S. Treasuries have risen 5 percent
this year through October, the smallest increase since 2006.
International ownership of  U.S. government debt  rose 20 percent
annually in the prior two years, and at a compound rate of 17
percent since 2001, or as far back as the data are available.  The Treasury’s initial reports on international purchases
are based on the location where the transaction occurs.
Revisions are based on location of the beneficial owner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  