-- China Money Rate Rises Most in Two Weeks as PBOC Drains Capital
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-15T09:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/china-money-rate-rises-most-in-two-weeks-as-pboc-drains-capital.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose the most in two weeks on speculation cash supply will wane
as the central bank drains funds from the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China will withdraw a net 73 billion
yuan ($11.5 billion) of capital this week as bill sales exceed
redemptions, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The
central bank  reiterated  its stance yesterday for a prudent
monetary policy, according to a statement on its website
summarizing the results of an annual economic planning meeting
of Communist Party leaders in Beijing.  “The market doesn’t understand why the central bank is
selling so many bills to drain capital,” said Liu Junyu, a bond
analyst in Shenzhen at China Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s
sixth-biggest lender. “The government’s statements coming after
the work conference haven’t shown any sign of a policy change.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 23 basis points to 3.45 percent as of
4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled
by the National Interbank Funding Center. That was the biggest
increase since Nov. 30.  China’s manufacturing may contract for a second month in
December as  Europe ’s debt crisis weighs on exports and home
sales slide, a preliminary reading from a purchasing managers’
index reported by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
indicated today. The gauge was at 49 compared with a final
number of 47.7 for November.  The central bank kept the  yield  on three-month bills
unchanged at 3.1618 percent for a 16th sale, according to a
statement on its website. It issued 3 billion yuan of the bills
and 10 billion yuan of 91-day repurchase contracts.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined six
basis points to 2.84 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.44 percent government bonds due June
2016 rose three basis points at 3.08 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Simon Harvey, Anil Varma  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 