-- China Halts Project After Village Protests
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-15T17:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/china-halts-project-as-protests-erupt-over-death-of-villager-land-sales.html
China’s Communist Party halted a
real estate project and is investigating local officials in a
village in  Guangdong province  where protests have led to it
being cordoned off, state media reported.  Authorities in Wukan village will be questioned and the
property construction plan will be stopped, China News Service
said. Future land development will be undertaken only with the
approval of a majority of villagers, the report said, citing Wu
Zili, the mayor of Shanwei, which has jurisdiction over Wukan.  Police set up a roadblock about three miles from the
fishing village, cut off supplies of food and water and
prevented local boats from leaving, the  Daily Telegraph  reported
from the area Dec. 14. The Wall Street Journal  said  yesterday
that its reporter was blocked from entering Wukan, which is
surrounded by “hundreds” of paramilitary police. Protests
began three months ago due to a dispute with the local
government over the sale of land, and escalated in the past week
after a villager, Xue Jinbo, died in police custody, according
to the Telegraph report.  The standoff is the latest in a series of demonstrations
that have sparked concern among Communist Party leaders who have
ruled  China  for more than six decades. Zhou Yongkang, a member
of the ruling Politburo Standing Committee and the country’s top
law enforcement official, twice this month called for handling
social conflicts with care.  “There is growing unhappiness within the Chinese populace
at large about the behavior of Party members,” said Dean Cheng,
a research fellow on Chinese political and security issues at
the  Heritage Foundation  in  Washington . “The result is growing
internal pressures at the same time that you have a leadership
whose legitimacy is likely to be challenged.”  Soaring Home Prices  Residential prices in the world’s second-biggest economy
have risen 155 percent since 1998. Land disputes are the leading
cause of unrest, according to an official study published in
June. The number of protests, riots and strikes doubled in five
years to almost 500 a day last year, according to Sun Liping, a
professor at Beijing’s Tsinghua University.  About 50 million farmers have lost their homes in the past
30 years since  Deng Xiaoping  began breaking up agricultural
collectives to make way for roads, factories and airports,
according to the  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences  in Beijing.
An estimated 60 million more will be uprooted over the next two
decades as urbanization expands.  The government of nearby Lufeng city issued a  statement  on
its website saying Xue, 42, died on Dec. 11 of heart failure and
an initial investigation ruled out other causes of death. The
body showed no signs of assault, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported, citing a Guangdong provincial investigator.  Property Development  China News said the property development involved a real
estate company with the same name as Hong Kong-listed Country
Garden Holdings Co. A woman in Country Garden’s investor
relations department who only gave her surname Zuo said the firm
didn’t have a project in the area.  Calls to a number on the Lufeng government’s website went
unanswered Dec. 14. Guangdong Communist Party official Wei
Jianfei was unavailable for comment, said a man who answered the
telephone at his office and declined to give his name.  Thousands of villagers gathered for a second day at Wukan’s
village hall Dec. 14 and chanted for the return of Xue’s body,
the London-based Telegraph reported. The roadblocks are having a
“serious effect” on the livelihood of villagers, China News
quoted Shanwei Mayor Wu as saying.  State Department spokesman Mark Toner in a Dec. 14
interview called on “Chinese and local authorities to ensure a
peaceful resolution” to the situation in Wukan.  Villagers first protested in September, when they broke
into local government offices, police stations and destroyed six
police cars, Xinhua reported. The demonstrations were sparked by
issues including  land use , financing and the election of local
officials, and two officials were fired following the unrest.  Police Standoff  The government then asked local villagers to appoint 13
residents to mediate in the dispute, the Telegraph reported. On
Dec. 9, five of the 13 people appointed to mediate were detained
by men in plain clothes, according to the report.  A thousand armed police attempted to enter Wukan on Dec. 11
and were blocked by the villagers, the Telegraph reported,
citing a local resident. Tear gas and water cannons failed to
disperse the crowd and after two hours the police withdrew and
blocked roads to the village, according the newspaper. Wukan is
currently being supplied by residents of neighboring areas
carrying in food across fields, the Telegraph reported.  Xue and two others were arrested on Dec. 9 on suspicion of
damaging public property and disrupting public services,
according to Xinhua. He pleaded guilty to the accusations during
two interrogations on Dec. 9 and Dec. 10, Xinhua reported,
citing Zeng Songquan, deputy chief of the public security bureau
of Shanwei city. The city of Shanwei holds jurisdiction over
Lufeng and Wukan, according to Xinhua.  Shanwei, about 135 kilometers (84 miles) east-northeast of
 Hong Kong , was also the site of protests in 2005 during which
police opened fire on demonstrators. Three of the protesters
were killed, Xinhua reported in December 2005, citing the city
government.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Mohammed Hadi in Hong Kong at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bruce Grant  at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  