-- Chinese Drywall Maker to Pay Homeowners to Settle Contamination Lawsuits
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2011-12-15T20:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/chinese-drywall-maker-knauf-plasterboard-agrees-to-800-million-settlement.html
Knauf Plasterboard Tianjin Co., a
Chinese drywall maker, agreed to pay at least $800 million to
settle homeowner claims that faulty building materials
contaminated their homes with corrosive sulfur fumes,
plaintiffs’ lawyers said.  Knauf agreed to resolve claims involving about 4,500
properties that contain the tainted drywall, lawyers for
property owners said today in an e-mailed statement. Homeowners
said the faulty wallboard emits gases that corrode copper coils
and electrical and plumbing equipment.  “KPT has agreed to provide thousands of families the
opportunity to recover losses caused by KPT drywall,”  Russ Herman , a New Orleans-based lawyer representing property owners,
said in the statement.  The accord was announced today before U.S. District Judge
 Eldon Fallon  in New Orleans, who is overseeing about 12,000
suits filed over the contaminated drywall that have been
consolidated for pretrial evidence gathering. KPT is a
subsidiary of Iphofen, Germany-based Knauf International, owned
by  Knauf Group .  The $800 million figure “is wildly speculative and
premature given the settlement terms,” Greg Wallance, a KPT
lawyer, said today at a press conference. “We are confident the
figure will be considerably lower.”  The agreement didn’t contain a minimum or maximum number on
the cost of repairing homes with the faulty drywall, Steven Glickstein, another company lawyer, said in a telephone
interview.  ‘Landmark Settlement’  “Homeowners who can show they have KPT product in their
homes will be covered and the costs of those repairs” are
covered by the agreement no matter how much the total cost may
be to the company, Glickstein said.  The agreement is a “landmark settlement” and a “win-
win” proposition for KPT and homeowners, Glickstein said at a
press conference earlier today. “We think it’s in the best
interest of the homeowners” and will enable KPT to focus on
making and selling building materials, he said.  More than 1.1 million sheets of harmful Chinese drywall
were used in  Louisiana  rebuilding projects after hurricanes
Katrina and Rita struck in 2005, according to state Attorney
General James Caldwell.  Today’s settlement covers both residential and commercial
properties, Herman said.  The amount of the settlement will range from $800 million
to $1 billion, depending on the number of homeowners who can
prove they had KPT drywall, Herman said today at a press
conference.  Bidding Process  KPT payments won’t reach that level, Wallance countered.
Many plaintiffs don’t have KPT drywall in their homes and actual
costs for remediation “will be controlled through a competitive
bidding process,” he said. “Those who select a cash option
will receive a discounted settlement value.”  About 55 percent of the property owners who may benefit
from the settlement live in  Florida  while 35 percent are
Louisiana residents, Wallance said in a telephone interview
today.  The settlement doesn’t cover about 6,000 to 8,000 property
owners, Herman told the court today. Those plaintiffs are
“victims of corporate malfeasance in  China ,” he said.  The remaining cases involve drywall made in China by units
of Taishan Gypsum Co. and Beijing New Building Materials Public
Limited Co., the judge said. Fallon said he will travel to  Hong
Kong  to supervise depositions in the suits.  Other drywall suppliers, such as Miami-based Banner Supply
Co., agreed in June to pay about $55 million to settle claims
over the contaminated building materials made in China.  The consolidated case is In re Chinese-Manufactured Drywall
Products Liability Litigation, 2:09-md-02047, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Allen M. Johnson Jr. in New Orleans
at   allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  