-- Chinese Cut Back on London Luxury Homes Purchases as Stock Losses Bite
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2011-12-15T09:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/chinese-cut-back-on-london-luxury-home-buying-as-stock-market-losses-bite.html
Chinese investors’ share of prime
 London  home purchases in the city’s most expensive neighborhoods
fell by more than half in the third quarter as stock market
declines hurt spending power,  Hamptons International  said.  Buyers from the world’s second-largest economy accounted
for 4.9 percent of sales in Chelsea, Kensington, Knightsbridge
and Belgravia in the three months through September, down from
12.6 percent in the previous quarter, said Adam Challis, head of
residential research the London-based property broker. They
represented 10.6 percent of the purchases in the three months
through March.  “A lot of Asian wealth that’s spent on property is tied to
the performance of equity markets,” Challis said in an
interview. “When they wobble, there’s less money to spend.”  The  Hong Kong  Hang Seng Index fell 22 percent and Japan’s
Nikkei 225 Stock Average retreated 15 percent in the two months
through September, as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis damped
global investor confidence.  Chinese buyers have been increasing their share of London
home purchases after  China ’s government took steps to cool the
country’s real estate market and avoid a bubble. Foreign
investors have also been attracted to the U.K. capital after the
British pound lost about 24 percent of its value against a
basket of currencies since the housing market peaked in the
third quarter of 2007.  London Attraction  Buyers from  Asia  accounted for the majority of new home
purchases in central London for the first time in the six months
through April, according broker Knight Frank LLP. Most were from
Hong Kong and  Singapore .  Home values in expensive neighborhoods such as Kensington
and Knightsbridge may rise as much as 13 percent this year as
buyers compete for a limited number of properties on the market,
Challis said in a report today.  “Prime owner-occupiers move less often, further
restricting the supply of for sale properties at any one time,”
he said. “The supply constraint for existing stock is an
endemic feature of prime property.”  U.K. buyers accounted for around 44 percent of London
luxury home purchases in the third quarter. About 19.5 percent
came from the European Union and 14.6 percent from the Middle
East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 