-- Chow Tai Fook, New China Life Drop on First Day as Hong Kong IPOs Struggle
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2011-12-15T11:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/chow-tai-fook-slides-on-first-hong-kong-trading-day-after-2-billion-ipo.html
Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. 
and New China Life Insurance Co. fell on their first trading day
in  Hong Kong , reflecting a slump in demand for new equity as
China’s growth slows and Europe’s debt crisis persists.  Chow Tai Fook , the world’s largest listed jewelry chain,
dropped 8 percent to HK$13.8 at the close of Hong Kong trading
after raising HK$15.8 billion ($2 billion) in an initial public
offering.  New China Life , the country’s third-largest life
insurer, fell 9.8 percent to HK$25.7 at the market close after
completing a $1.9 billion IPO.  New China Life had the worst debut among Hong Kong IPOs of
at least $1 billion since June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Other companies selling stock for the first time,
including Haitong Securities Co. and Guodian Technology &
Environment Group Corp., canceled or reduced offerings in the
past week as the economic turmoil sapped demand for equity.  “Investors are holding on to their cash, doubtful about
not only new stock, but also shares in the secondary market,”
said Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based managing director at China
Merchants Securities Co., which oversees about $1.5 billion.
“Worries about  Europe  will keep investors cautious in months to
come.”  Near the Bottom  Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust  fell 9.4 percent on
its April debut after raising $1.8 billion in Hong Kong’s first
yuan-denominated initial public offering.  Samsonite
International SA , the world’s biggest branded-luggage maker,
lost 7.7 percent on its first day of trading in the city in June.  Chow Tai Fook and  New China Life  fell even after pricing
their IPOs at or near the bottom of ranges marketed to investors.
Hong Kong’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  is down 6.3 percent since
Dec. 7, the day before New China Life priced its shares.  “With the uncertain outlook for the macro economy, it’s
difficult to ask investors to buy newly listed stocks at the
moment,” said  Alex Au , Hong Kong-based managing director of
Richland Capital Management Ltd., which oversees $300 million.  Chow Tai Fook’s offer price values the company at about 15
times estimated profit for the year ending March 2013, according
to people with knowledge of the matter.  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , the New
York-based luxury jeweler, trades at 15.4 times the average
analyst estimate for 2012 earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Signet Jewelers Ltd. (SIG) , the world’s second-largest jewelry
chain, trades at 11.3 times.  39 Percent Plunge  China Polymetallic Mining Ltd. plunged 39.2 percent
yesterday on its debut after raising HK$1.1 billion in a Hong
Kong IPO. Baoxin Auto Group Ltd. lost 14.1 percent yesterday in
the first day of trading after a HK$3.2 billion offering.  Chow Tai Fook  expects “buying power of customers to
weaken” amid the slowing global economy, Chairman Henry Cheng
said in Hong Kong today. The company is “confident” about its
long-term sales performance, he said.  “With gold’s price coming down from its peak, sales growth
at gold shops would inevitably fall,” Jason Yuan, a Shanghai-
based analyst at UOB Kay Hian Holdings Ltd., said in a phone
interview today. “The high-growth period is over.”  The jeweler’s same-store sales growth for the six months
ended Sept. 30 was 62 percent, according to its listing
prospectus. It had 1,335 outlets in mainland China and 86 in
Hong Kong, Macau and other Asian markets as of Sept. 30.  33 Month Low  New China Life  is raising more equity after its expansion
in a market that has grown an average 30 percent a year during
the past three decades brought its solvency ratio, a gauge of
its ability to settle claims, below regulatory requirements.
Chinese life insurers’ capital strength may weaken further as
stocks declines amid an economic slowdown crimp profitability,
Fitch Ratings said in an e-mailed report on Dec. 7. The  Shanghai 
Composite Index yesterday fell to its lowest close since March
2009.  The company’s “quality isn’t perceived as good as other
listed insurers in the market,” said Au of Richland Capital.
“If the general macro economy is not so certain, investors tend
to stick with higher quality names.”  New China Life  raised $1.3 billion in Hong Kong and $580
million in Shanghai, where it will start trading tomorrow.  Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., HSBC Holdings
Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. managed Chow Tai Fook’s IPO. BNP
Paribas SA, China International Capital Corp., Deutsche Bank,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG are among banks that
arranged New  China  Life’s sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  