-- Clippers’ Paul Trade May Turn NBA Losers Into Los Angeles Rival for Lakers
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2011-12-15T06:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/chris-paul-finally-moves-to-los-angeles-as-nba-ratifies-trade-to-clippers.html
The acquisition of  Chris Paul  may
push the  Los Angeles  Clippers out of the shadow of the arena-
sharing Lakers, who almost got the National Basketball
Association All-Star last week.  The Clippers and Lakers have shared Los Angeles for the
past 27 years, during which time the Lakers have won eight NBA
championships and the Clippers have had two winning seasons.  Now, teamed with NBA Slam Dunk Contest champion  Blake Griffin , point guard Paul is part of a team that could compete
for the loyalties of  Hollywood stars  and local fans starting
next week in a pair of preseason games at the Staples Center.  “These ain’t your father’s Clippers any more,” the team’s
radio announcer, Brian Sieman, wrote last night on the club’s
website. “After years of finishing in last place, the source of
talk show hosts’ jokes, being LA’s other team -- the Clippers
have seized their opportunity.”  Paul, 26, was traded to the Clippers six days after NBA
Commissioner  David Stern  vetoed a deal that would have sent the
four-time All-Star from the  New Orleans Hornets  to the Lakers as
part of a three-team transaction including the  Houston Rockets .  In exchange for Paul and two second-round draft picks in
2015, the league-owned Hornets will get guard Eric Gordon,
center Chris Kaman, forward Al-Farouq Aminu and a 2012 first-
round draft pick.  “The proposed transaction that we have tonight is a very
good transaction and better for the future of the Hornets than
the transaction on which I did not sign off,” Stern said last
night in a conference call with reporters. “I knew that we were
doing the best thing for  New Orleans , that was my job. It wasn’t
a lot of fun, but I don’t get paid to have fun.”  Stern’s Final Say  The league’s 29 other team owners own the Hornets and are
trying to sell the club. Though Hornets Chairman Jac Sperling
and General Manager Dell Demps run the franchise and engage in
trade talks, the league has final say on proposed deals.  Stern said there was no conflict of interest in his roles
as NBA commissioner and overseer of the Hornets.  “There was always going to be a level of discomfort, but I
didn’t consider it to be rooting for a team or against a team,”
Stern said on the conference call. “There was only one thing we
were interested in, and that was to get the best value.”  Paul has averaged 18.7 points and 9.9 assists per game
during his six-season career. He played 80 games last season
after being limited to 45 the previous campaign following
surgery for a torn meniscus in his left knee.  Paul told the Hornets he didn’t want to sign a contract
extension and could have become a free agent after the 2011-12
season. He made $14.9 million last season with the Hornets, who
went 46-36 in 2010-11 and lost to  Kobe Bryant  and the Lakers in
six games in the first round of the playoffs.  Paul and Griffin  He is coming to a team that went 32-50 last season and
hasn’t reached the playoffs since 2006. Griffin, last season’s
NBA Rookie of the Year, led the Clippers with averages of 22.5
points and 12.1 rebounds per game.  Demps said the Hornets were satisfied with the players and
the draft pick they got in return for Paul.  “This transaction here gives the team a long-term
foundation, we’re getting some exciting young players in the
program,” he said on the conference call. “For the long-term
future of the New Orleans Hornets, this is the best move.”  Gordon, who is entering his fourth NBA season, averaged
22.3 points and 4.4 assists per game in 2010-11. Kaman, a 2010
All-Star, had a left ankle injury last season and was limited to
32 games, averaging 12.4 points and seven rebounds per contest.
Aminu, a forward, played in eight games as a rookie last season
for the Clippers.  Neil Olshey, the Clippers’ vice president of basketball
operations, said Paul is the type of player who should make
Griffin and the rest of his new teammates better.  “We had to think, do we continue to build slowly and keep
adding pieces through the draft?” Olshey said in a video clip
on the Clippers’ website. “We just decided for a player of
Chris’s caliber that it was time to make a move and push all our
chips into the center of the table.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  