-- Coca-Cola Femsa Sees 2.7 Billion Pesos in Ebitda From 3 Mergers
-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2011-12-15T22:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/coca-cola-femsa-sees-2-7-billion-pesos-in-ebitda-from-three-2011-mergers.html
Coca-Cola Femsa SAB (KOF) ,  Latin America ’s
largest Coke bottler, sees as much as 2.7 billion pesos ($193.8
million) in  cash flow  from three acquisitions announced this
year, Chief Financial Officer Hector Trevino said.  “The sum of the three Mexican companies will represent
about 2.5 billion to 2.7 billion pesos in Ebitda in addition to
what Coca-Cola Femsa used to generate before these mergers,”
Trevino said in a telephone interview today from Queretaro,
Mexico. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization is a measure of cash flow known as Ebitda.  Coca-Cola Femsa bought the beverage division of Mexico’s
Grupo Fomento Queretano for 6.6 billion pesos ($474 million) and
will pay for the acquisition by issuing new shares, according to
a statement to regulators today. Earlier this week, Coca-Cola
Femsa said its shareholders approved an agreement to buy the
bottling operations of  Mexico ’s Grupo Cimsa with new shares, a
transaction announced in September.  In June, Coca-Cola Femsa agreed to pay 6.55 billion pesos
in stock for the Coke bottling operations of Grupo Tampico SA,
marking the company’s first all-share transaction.  The Queretano purchase should be completed by the first
quarter of next year, Trevino said.  Trevino said he’s open to seeking out additional mergers or
acquisitions in Mexico and elsewhere in Latin America to foster
growth.  Coca-Cola Femsa reported a 7.1 percent increase in third-
quarter profit as sales volumes increased in Mexico, Colombia
and Argentina. Net income rose to 2.28 billion pesos as revenue
climbed 17 percent to 30.3 billion pesos.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  