-- Colombia Raising Rates Fastest Sends ‘Loud and Clear’ Message on Inflation
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2011-12-15T19:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/colombia-raising-interest-rates-fastest-shows-clear-inflation-message.html
Colombia ’s central bank, the most
aggressive in the Americas this year in fighting inflation after
raising interest rates seven times, will increase borrowing
costs again as soon as May, trading in the swaps market shows.  “The central bank still has a ways to go,” said Nader Nazmi, a  Latin America  economist at BNP Paribas in New York, who
predicts the bank will lift its key rate in the first quarter.
“The current interest rate is still very accommodative.”  Board members, who are meeting tomorrow to set monetary
policy, will boost the  overnight rate  25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, to 5 percent as early as May to keep inflation
in check, according to six-month interest-rate swaps trading
data compiled by Bloomberg. In November, the central bank raised
the rate by 25 basis points to 4.75 percent, the first increase
since July.  Traders are betting on another increase even after
President  Juan Manuel Santos  said on Dec. 6 that such a move
wouldn’t be “appropriate” as central banks from  Brazil  to
 Australia  cut borrowing costs to contend with a slower global
expansion. Banco de la Republica said in minutes of the November
meeting that it raised rates to bolster its credibility after
“strong” growth drove up inflation expectations.  Latin America’s fifth-largest economy may grow as much as 6
percent in 2011, the fastest pace since 2007, according to the
central bank. The  International Monetary Fund  predicts South
American economies will expand 4.9 percent this year.  Inflation Target  Annual inflation quickened to 4.02 percent in October,
breaching the central bank’s target range for the first time
since 2009, before slowing to 3.96 percent in November. Banco de
la Republica targets inflation between 2 percent and 4 percent
this year and next.  Higher interest rates in Colombia are bucking a global
trend for looser monetary policy. Concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis will deepen the global slowdown has prompted Brazil’s
central bank to cut the benchmark rate three times to 11 percent
after last cutting it in July while policy makers in Chile, Peru
and  Mexico  have indicated they may lower borrowing costs.  China ’s central bank reduced the amount of cash that banks
must hold as reserves on Nov. 30 for the first time since 2008.
The same day, the  Federal Reserve  and five other central banks
cut the costs of emergency dollar funding to European lenders to
alleviate a credit crunch.  Colombia’s November rate increase reversed the increase in
inflation expectations, said Munir Jalil, the chief economist at
Citigroup’s Colombia unit.  Breakeven Rate  The gap between yields on government inflation-indexed
bonds due 2013 and similar-maturity fixed-rate debt, a gauge of
annual consumer price increase expectations, fell to 3.56
percentage points today, from 3.91 on Nov. 17, the highest level
since March 4.  “The central bank’s message was loud and clear: I want to
control inflation expectations,” said Jalil, a former central
bank official who helped make inflation forecasts. “And the
market understood it.”  He predicts the bank will increase borrowing costs next
year in the second quarter after leaving interest-rates
unchanged at tomorrow’s meeting. Jalil is among 26 of 32
 economists surveyed by Bloomberg  that predict no change
tomorrow. The others forecast an increase to 5 percent.  Colombia’s six-month  interest-rate  swaps at 4.77 percent
show traders pricing in a 25 basis point increase in the
benchmark rate in May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The swaps reflect traders’ views of the likely average of future
benchmark rates during the life of the contract.  Bond Yields  Yields on Colombia’s peso bonds due in August 2012 fell to
5.24 percent today from 5.50 percent on Nov. 24, a day before
the central bank raised interest rates, as investors priced in
slower inflation, according to Camilo Contreras, an analyst at
Ultrabursatiles SA brokerage in Bogota.  Most Banco de la Republica policy makers said lifting the
key rate in November was “prudent” given rapid loan growth and
record housing costs, according to  minutes of the meeting .  Total lending rose 25 percent to 207.2 trillion pesos ($107
billion) in October, up from 168.8 trillion pesos in the same
month a year ago. The increase marked the eighth straight month
that  lending  expanded at an annual pace exceeding 20 percent.  The central bank could reverse course if the global economy
worsens, Colombian policy makers said in the meeting minutes
published Dec. 9.  “Increasing the rates today might not bring about a heavy
cost if the foreign situation suddenly deteriorates in the near
future,” they said, according to the minutes. “This is easily
detectable and the policy would be reversed.”  ‘Dovish Tone’  Lower interest rates worldwide and Banco de la Republica’s
“dovish tone” in the Nov. 25 statement means it will likely
leave rates unchanged through 2012, according to Benito Berber,
a strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York .  “The threshold for rate increases is getting increasingly
complicated,” Berber said. “Given the gray clouds
internationally, the rate is appropriate. It’s a bit exaggerated
to expect more hikes.”  Central bank board members who had voted to leave the
lending rate unchanged questioned the decision given moves by
monetary authorities elsewhere to loosen policy, according to
the minutes.  “Why should Colombia be different from the rest of the
world except for India or Iceland?” they said. The bank should
consider “prudential regulatory measures” in addition to
interest-rate changes to combat rapid loan growth and record
housing costs, the dissenting board members said, according to
the minutes.  Economists’ Forecasts  Most of the economists in a central bank survey published
Dec. 12 forecast policy makers will increase the key rate by a
quarter percentage point to 5 percent in March.  Felipe Campos, the head analyst at brokerage Alianza
Valores SA in Bogota, predicts the central bank will raise
interest rates further in the first quarter, leaving the
benchmark at 6 percent at the end of next year as it “chases
down” inflation. He predicts consumer prices will rise 3.73
percent this year and 4.5 percent next year.  “Banco de la Republica has always prioritized inflation
over growth,” Campos said. “Given inflation dynamics and
accelerating growth, it will be forced” to raise rates further,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  