-- Foreign Financial Commercial Paper in U.S. Declines to Lowest in Two Years
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2011-12-15T17:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/commercial-paper-market-declines-for-second-week-fed-says-1-.html
Commercial paper  sold in the U.S. by
foreign banks fell to the lowest level in more than two years as
money market lending strains grow on concern that European
leaders may fail to stop the region’s debt crisis from tainting
bank balance sheets globally.  The drop underscores how banks in  Europe  are increasingly
relying on central banks for financing as their dollar-based
funding costs  rise  to the highest since July 2009, based on the
three-month London interbank offered rate.  Foreign financial institutions’ commercial paper fell $3.6
billion to $164.5 billion outstanding in the week ended
yesterday, the lowest level since August 2009, the  Federal
Reserve  said today on its website. A drop in short-dated
borrowing by  U.S.-based banks  fell for a second week, decreasing
$7.6 billion to $295.7 billion, the Fed said.  U.S.  money market funds , typically among the biggest
commercial-paper buyers, are reducing holdings as short-term
lending market strains grow. Corporations, which issue the IOUs
to pay rent and salaries, are using more commercial and
industrial bank loans, said Raymond Stone, an economist at Stone
& McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton,  New Jersey .  “There are significant financial strains, particularly in
interbank funding for dollars outside the  United States ,” Stone
said. “This has been eased to an extent by the currency swap
lines extended by the Fed and other central banks. But
ultimately the natural buyers for commercial paper, the money
market funds, have been buying less.”  Overall, the seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial
paper outstanding fell by $5.6 billion to $991.7 billion in the
week ended Dec. 14, according to the Fed.  That’s the biggest
decline since the period ending Nov. 9, according to Fed data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Parry in New York at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  