-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Improves on Job Gains, Bloomberg Index Shows
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2011-12-15T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-improves-on-job-gains-bloomberg-index-shows.html
Consumer confidence in the U.S. rose
last week to the highest level in two months, a sign that job
gains may be lifting sentiment during the  holiday shopping
season .  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was at minus 49.9 in
the period ended Dec. 11, after a reading of minus 50.3 the
prior week. Confidence among Americans with full-time jobs
climbed to the highest level in almost five months.  A decline in  unemployment  last month complemented by
increasing payrolls may help reverse the recent decline in
household confidence. At the same time, the European debt crisis
and gridlock among lawmakers in Washington could prevent further
gains in sentiment.  “The modest increase in private-sector hiring has at least
tentatively prevented another leg down in confidence,” said
 Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg L.P. in  New
York . “Perhaps the traditional holiday season has injected a
bit of hope that the worst has passed, at least for those
fortunate to have a job and disposable income to enjoy the
holidays.”  First-time claims for  unemployment benefits  dropped last
week to a three-year low, showing the labor market is improving.
The number of applications for jobless insurance dropped by
19,000 to 366,000 in the week ended Dec. 10, the fewest since
May 2008, the Labor Department said today.  Stocks extended gains after the report, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rising 1 percent to 1,223.82 at 9:40 a.m. in
New York.  Treasury securities  fell, sending the yield on the 10-
year note up to 1.93 percent from 1.90 percent late yesterday.  Industrial Production   A report from the  Federal Reserve  showed industrial
production cooled last month. Output at the nation’s factories,
mines and utilities declined 0.2 percent in November, the first
decrease in seven months.  The figures are a reminder that a slowing economy in  Europe 
may limit shipments from American factories and restrain the
industry that’s been a source of strength for the recovery.  The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  said that factories in
the region  grew  in December by the most in seven months, spurred
by employment and orders.  Two of the three components of the weekly comfort index
improved. The measure of Americans’ views of the current  state
of the economy  rose to minus 87.9 last week from minus 89.7 in
the prior period, and the buying climate index increased to
minus 51.8 from minus 52.6. The gauge of  personal finances 
declined to minus 10 from minus 8.5.  This Year  The Bloomberg comfort index, which began in December 1985,
has averaged minus 46.9 this year compared with minus 45.7 for
all of 2010 and minus 47.9 in 2009, the worst full-year reading
on record, the report showed.  Confidence among consumers with a full-time job rose to
minus 32, the highest level since July, from minus 37.6 the
prior week. Sentiment declined for Americans who are unemployed
and for those with part-time jobs.  Political affiliations led to differing levels of
confidence among Americans, today’s report showed. Republicans’
sentiment improved to minus 45.2, from minus 47.8, while that of
Democrats declined to minus 51.3 from minus 46.8 the previous
week.  Other sentiment indicators have rebounded. The Conference
Board’s index of confidence in November had the biggest monthly
gain since April 2003. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan final index of sentiment rose last month to the highest
level since June.  ‘Feeling Pretty Good’  “Given recent sales trends and  consumer confidence 
numbers, we’re feeling pretty good about where the industry is
going,”  Don Johnson , General Motors Co. vice president of U.S.
sales, said Dec. 1 on a conference call with analysts.  Better job prospects may have supported some of the
improved views in today’s report. Employment climbed by 120,000
workers in November, and the jobless rate dropped to 8.6
percent, the lowest since March 2009, from 9 percent, Labor
Department figures showed Dec. 2.  “While far from wholesale relief, these trends hold out at
least the possibility of a break from the unrelenting consumer
discontent that’s run steadily for the past three years,”  Gary
Langer , president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York,
which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement.  “The economy has been expanding moderately,
notwithstanding some apparent slowing in global growth,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement at the
conclusion of its meeting this week in  Washington . “While
indicators point to some improvement in overall labor market
conditions, the  unemployment rate  remains elevated.”  Bloomberg Survey  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  