-- Corzine: MF Staff Said Fund Transfer Legal
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2011-12-15T19:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/corzine-mf-staff-said-fund-transfer-legal.html
Jon S. Corzine, former chairman and
chief executive officer of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. , told
lawmakers today that the firm’s back-office staff “explicitly”
informed him that fund transfers made before the company filed
for bankruptcy were legal.  Corzine, testifying today before U.S. lawmakers for the
third time in a week, was responding to allegations made at a
U.S. Senate hearing earlier this week when the executive
chairman of Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME)  told lawmakers Corzine
had known of a $175 million loan using client money that was
made before the Oct. 31 bankruptcy.  Corzine used today’s hearing of an oversight panel of the
House Financial Services Committee to rebut the suggestion that
he may have authorized improper use of customer money.  Lawmakers and U.S. authorities are investigating what
happened to as much as $1.2 billion in customer funds that is
missing from MF Global accounts.  “I did not instruct anyone to lend customer funds to
anyone,” Corzine said.  Corzine suggested  Terrence Duffy , CME Group executive
chairman, may have been referring to some funds transfers that
occurred as MF Global was selling billions of dollars in
securities.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which was involved in the
transactions, told MF Global the sale could not be completed
until overdrafts in some accounts in  London  were corrected.  “I contacted the firm’s back office in  Chicago  and asked
them to resolve the issues, which I understood they did,”
Corzine said. He didn’t say explicitly whether he was aware at
the time that the loan may have included funds from customer
accounts.  Operations Staff  Corzine’s  testimony  today marked the second time that he
appeared to be suggesting that MF Global’s Chicago-based
operations staff might be the appropriate target for scrutiny
over what happened to the missing money.  “The back office in Chicago explicitly confirmed to me
that the funds were appropriately transferred,” Corzine said.  On Tuesday, Corzine named Christine Serwinski, the
company’s chief financial officer for  North America , as someone
in charge of the responsible department, though he said she had
been on vacation during the final days of MF Global. Serwinski
did not respond to a message left at her home telephone number.  Texas Republican  Randy Neugebauer , chairman of the
oversight subcommittee, said he was uncomfortable with the
amount of power Corzine held at MF Global before he stepped
down.  “What we saw was one person had an extreme amount of
authority, Mr. Corzine, as the chair of the board and the CEO of
the company,” Neugebauer said in his opening statement.  “And,
according to people we have interviewed, one of the principal
traders of this company. There was no real barrier or firewall
for protecting the investors of the company.”  Second-Hand Account  Duffy, who is also scheduled to testify today, said Tuesday
his information was based on a second-hand account of a
conversation between CME and MF Global employees. He didn’t say
whether Corzine learned of the loans in advance of the funds
being moved. He also didn’t say whether the loans were a
legitimate use of customer funds.  Corzine has repeatedly testified that he cannot explain why
the money is missing, and that he had been surprised to learn of
the shortfall on the night of Oct. 30.  Officials from regulators including the  Federal Reserve
Bank of New York , the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and
the Securities are also expected to appear at today’s hearing.  Illegitimate Transfers  Investigators are attempting to determine which
transactions involving customer funds were illegitimate, Jill E. Sommers, the senior CFTC commissioner overseeing the
investigation said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “We’re far enough along the trail to see the transactions
going out” of segregated accounts, Sommers said. Investigators
are searching e-mails and other documents to trace the
transactions. “Following a trail is not as easy as it sounds
because money isn’t just transferred from point A to point B and
stopping,” she said.  Sommers said she expects regulators will eventually be able
to determine where all the money went. There may still be a
shortfall because some money may not be available to be clawed
back for customers, she said.  Corzine and MF Global didn’t receive preferential treatment
in a bid to become a primary dealer of  government securities ,
Thomas C. Baxter Jr., general counsel of the New York Federal
Reserve, said in  testimony  prepared for today’s hearing.  Corzine met with officials at the New York Fed on June 1,
2010, and discussed the broker’s efforts to improve its credit
structure by raising $150 million in equity, Baxter said.  Primary Dealer  MF Global, starting before Corzine became CEO, sought to
expedite a New York Fed review in order to become a primary
dealer. The firm was under orders from the  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission  to overhaul its internal controls. The Fed’s
policy was to impose a one-year waiting period after such an
enforcement action. MF Global argued the matter wasn’t material
to its application, Baxter said.  The  New York  Fed disagreed and reviewed MF Global’s
application “without fear or favor,” Baxter said in the
testimony. MF Global was approved as a primary dealer on Feb. 2,
2011. That status was revoked by the Fed on Oct. 31, the same
day the firm filed for bankruptcy.  Primary dealers participate in auctions of  U.S. government
debt  and provide the New York Fed’s trading desk with
information and analysis about the market as the central bank
implements interest rate policies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  