-- Covidien Spinning Off Drugs Unit to Focus on Pain Management
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2011-12-15T21:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/covidien-plans-spin-off-of-pharmaceuticals-unit-into-stand-alone-company.html
Covidien Plc., (COV)  a maker of surgical
products and drugs, plans to spin off its pharmaceuticals
division into a separate company that would be better able to
compete in the growing pain-management area.  The drugs unit generates about $2 billion in annual sales,
with about two-thirds coming from the U.S. market, the company
said in a statement today. Among its products are Exalgo, a 24-
hour extended release opioid, and Pennsaid, a topical anti-
inflammatory medication.  Covidien, with offices in Dublin, Ireland, and Mansfield,
 Massachusetts , had been seeking to sell the unit when talks
broke down earlier this year, people familiar with the matter
said in June. The company’s medical products business has annual
sales of about $9.6 billion, today’s statement said.  “The pharma division has been a drag on the company’s top-
line growth rate,” said  Joanne Wuensch , an analyst with BMO
Capital Markets in New York, in a note. The spinoff “should
provide a relief to the overhang and questions that have dogged
this division.”  Covidien rose 3.3 percent to $43.55 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The shares had fallen 7.7 percent this year before today,
closing yesterday near their low for 2011.  Recent Trend  The company’s plan follows a recent trend of health-care
companies who have shed units in favor of their core businesses,
including Abbott Laboratories, in  Abbott Park ,  Illinois , and New
York-based Pfizer Inc., said  Jeff Jonas , an analyst with Gabelli
& Co. in Rye, New York, in a telephone interview.  “We’re in a tough market where share prices haven’t been
increasing,” Jonas said. “Maybe the pieces will be more
attractive on their own.”  Investors have rewarded all three companies in the wake of
their announcements. Abbott has risen 4.7 percent to $54.89
since Oct. 18, the day before its plan to divest its drug
business was announced, and shares of New York-based Pfizer have
increased 16 percent to $21.15 since CEO  Ian Read  announced on
Feb. 1 that he was planning to divest units.  Covidien’s decision to shed its drugs division is expected
to take up to 18 months to complete, the company said. While a
leader for the  drug company  has been hired, according to the
company, Covidien declined to identify the person.  The change won’t affect Covidien’s ability to make
acquisitions, Chief Financial Officer Charles Dockendorff said
on a conference call with investors.  Trays, Hypodermic Needles  The medical products division makes trays, hypodermic
needles, retractors, pumps for patient feeding and pain
management, and other items used in hospitals.  “This transaction, if completed, would give both
businesses greater flexibility to focus on and pursue their
respective growth strategies, while potentially providing
shareholders with greater value over the longer term,” Almeida
said in the statement.  The pharmaceutical company will likely be based in Ireland,
partly for tax purposes, Dockendorff said. The main operations
of the drug business are now in  St. Louis ,  Missouri .  The drugs business “definitely needs some investment, and
that’s why there are so many questions about the new president
and whether there might be some strategy changes beyond that,
Jonas said. “They need to find some new products, invest in the
pipeline. That’s a multiyear process,” he said.  Past Divestitures  Covidien has divested three business units since December
2009, when it sold the U.S. radiopharmaceutical business to
Parthenon Capital LLC, a private equity firm based in  Boston . In
two 2010 deals, the company sold U.S. units to New Mountain
Capital LLC, based in New York.  Jonas said those sorts of sales are part of a trend across
industries in a difficult economy. “We’re in a tough market
where share prices haven’t been increasing,” he said. “Maybe
the pieces will be more attractive on their own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net 
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 