-- Credit Suisse to Merge Private, Investment Bank Operations
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2011-12-15T10:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/credit-suisse-to-merge-private-investment-bank-operations.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-
biggest Swiss bank, plans to combine the operational functions
of its private banking and investment-banking units from next
year to lower costs.  Gary Bullock will lead global operations, reporting to
Chief Financial Officer  David Mathers , the Zurich-based bank
said in a memo to employees yesterday. Credit Suisse spokesman
 Marc Dosch  confirmed the memo’s contents.  “These changes will accelerate the development of more
integrated operating and securities processing platforms across
the bank, improving client access to our products and reducing
the cost of delivery,” the bank’s executive board said in the
memo. “These measures will also significantly contribute to the
bank’s overall cost reduction efforts.”  Credit Suisse said last month it aims to cut annual costs
by 2 billion Swiss francs ($2.1 billion) by the end of 2013. The
bank is scaling down its investment-banking division and cutting
3,500 jobs amid market volatility that Chief Executive Officer
 Brady Dougan  has compared to the 2008 credit crisis.  Bullock joined Credit Suisse in 2008 as head of operations
for the investment bank after working for Morgan Stanley and UBS
AG for 22 years. In his new role, he will be a member of the
extended management committees for private banking and
investment banking, the memo said.  Romeo Lacher, the head of private banking operations who
was appointed to lead the western European wealth management
business from January, and head of investment bank operations
Stef Toffolo will work with Bullock through the transition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 