-- Croatia’s Economy May Contract Next Year, Rohatinski Says
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2011-12-15T11:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/croatia-s-economy-may-contract-next-year-rohatinski-says-1-.html
Croatia  may slide into a recession
next year as government spending cuts and the euro area’s debt
crisis hit the Adriatic Sea nation’s economy,  central bank 
Governor Zeljko Rohatinski said.  “Next year will be a very hard year, we don’t expect any
growth, probably there will be a contraction,” he told
reporters in Zagreb today. “A stronger fiscal consolidation
will lead to lower growth. This is the price we need to pay to
keep sustainable economic growth in the future.”  The central bank lowered its gross domestic product growth
forecast this year to 0.4 percent from a previous estimate in
October of 0.5 percent, while GDP next year may range from a
contraction of 0.2 percent to a rise of 0.1 percent, he said.  The ruling  Croatian Democratic Union  was toppled on Dec. 4
by an opposition bloc led by the  Social Democrats , which is
expected to form a government by the end of the year. Premier-
elect  Zoran Milanovic  said on Dec. 6 he will introduce fiscal
measures within 50 days of taking office to bolster the
country’s credit rating and avoid seeking international aid.  Should the new government “hesitate” with fiscal
consolidation, “the things will only get worse,” Rohatinski
said. The fiscal deficit could widen to 7 percent of GDP from an
expected 6.1 percent this year, he said. Public debt in that
case may jump to 75 percent of GDP from 51 percent, he added.  ‘Fiscally Responsible’  “Fiscal consolidation should be the first economic duty of
the new government,” Rohatinski said. “It would also be a
signal to markets that we are fiscally responsible, and we’d be
able to keep a significant part of external financing.”  Croatia, which is preparing to become the  European Union ’s
28th member in July 2013, is taking longer than its Balkan
neighbors to climb out of a two-year recession. Foreign direct
investment dropped to $583 million in 2010 from $6 billion in
2008, while the government still needs to strengthen the labor
market and the “business environment,” the European Commission
said on Oct. 12.  The  World Bank  said this week that Croatia’s economy will
slide into a recession in 2012 as  Europe ’s debt crisis hinders
growth and the government delays cuts in state administration
and spending. The Washington-based lender urged the new
government to cut spending on public wages and social benefits,
as well as to relax its labor legislation and strengthen tax
collection from the gray economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  