-- Crude Oil Falls to Six-Week Low as U.S. Industrial Production Decreases
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2011-12-15T20:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/crude-oil-rebounds-from-five-week-low-on-u-s-jobs-manufacturing-data.html
Crude oil tumbled to the lowest
level in six weeks as  industrial production  declined for the
first time since April in the U.S., the world’s largest oil-
consuming country.  Prices fell 1.1 percent after Federal Reserve data showed
output at factories, mines and utilities slipped 0.2 percent in
November. Oil also decreased as the front-month contract
breached technical support at 50- and 200-day moving averages.  “The industrial demand number is weighing on the oil
market,” said  James Williams , an economist at WTRG Economics,
an energy research firm in  London ,  Arkansas . “People are
concerned that oil demand from factories will be weaker.”  Crude for January delivery fell $1.08 to $93.87 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
Nov. 2. Prices have risen 2.7 percent this year after climbing
15 percent in 2010. Futures have tumbled 6.3 percent in the past
two days.  Brent oil for January settlement increased 7 cents to
expire at $105.09 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The more-actively traded February futures fell
65 cents to settle at $103.60.  Brent oil was $11.22 higher than West Texas Intermediate
oil traded on the Nymex, the biggest premium since Nov. 15.  The decline in industrial production followed a 0.7 percent
gain in October, Fed data showed. Economists forecast a 0.1
percent advance, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey.  U.S. Consumption  “The U.S. is still the biggest oil consumer in the world
and what happened here really matters,” said  Michael Lynch ,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts .  The U.S. used 19.1 million barrels a day of oil in 2010, or
21 percent of global demand, according to BP Plc’s annual
Statistical Review of World Energy.  The January oil contract ended below the 50-day moving
average for the first time since Oct. 13, a technical indicator
that prices may continue to drop. The average was at $94.22. The
contract closed below the 200-day moving average for a second
day after breaching the support level for the first time in two
months yesterday.  “Technically, we’re taking out a lot of support,” said
Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount Options Inc. in  New
York .  Put Options  January $94 puts, bets that futures prices will decline
below the price level, were the most active options contract in
electronic trading on the Nymex. January oil options expired at
the close of Nymex floor trading today.  “Oil traders are very nervous about another potential
selloff,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and
founder of IiTrader.com in Chicago. “The commodity space is
still kind of shuddering here and there is no shake-off rally
that one would expect after such a decline.”  Earlier, crude futures rose 1.1 after the U.S. Labor
Department reported that applications for  unemployment benefits 
 slipped  to 366,000 last week, the fewest since May 2008. The
figure was projected to rise to 390,000 in the median forecast
of 47 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The jobless claims look pretty good but the industrial
production number is weak,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst with
PFGBest in  Chicago . “After yesterday’s big selloff, the bulls
have been beaten up and they are a little nervous.”  OPEC Meeting  Futures tumbled 5.2 percent yesterday after the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed to raise
its production ceiling. OPEC decided on an output target of 30
million barrels a day at the group’s meeting in Vienna.  Saudi Arabia  won’t compensate for any potential decline in
Iranian oil supply if the Persian country comes under sanctions
affecting its exports of crude, Iranian Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi said today.  Iran , the second-largest producer in OPEC after Saudi
Arabia, may come under fresh sanctions that target its crude
trade as the European Union and other importers seek to
intensify pressure on the country over its nuclear program.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 492,687
contracts as of 3:34 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 759,946
contracts yesterday, 16 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.35 million contracts, the highest level
since Nov. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  