-- Crude Oil-Tanker Rents Fall as Ship Supply Exceeds Cargo Demand
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2011-12-15T17:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/crude-oil-tanker-rents-fall-as-ship-supply-exceeds-cargo-demand.html
Returns for the largest  oil tankers 
hauling 2 million-barrel crude shipments on the industry’s
benchmark route fell for a third day, to the lowest level in a
month, as the supply of vessels exceeded cargo demand.  Daily income for very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, on
the Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage declined 2.4 percent to
$11,810, the lowest price since Nov. 11, according to the
London-based Baltic Exchange. Costs measured in industry-
standard Worldscale points fell 0.1 percent to 56.81.  Global demand to ship crude on VLCCs will rise 5.3 percent
to 148.2 million deadweight tons this year, according to
Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of the top global
shipbroker. Fleet growth will exceed demand, expanding 8 percent
to 172.9 million tons, its figures show.  “Oversupply will keep a clammy hand over the market,”
Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Oslo-based Arctic
Securities ASA, said by e-mail. There are 81 of the ships
available for loading in the  Persian Gulf  over the next four
weeks, three more than yesterday, according to a e-mailed report
from broker Marex Spectron Group Ltd.  Ship fuel, an owner’s single-biggest expense, slid 0.1
percent to $651.53 a metric ton, data compiled by Bloomberg from
25 ports worldwide showed. It’s still up 28 percent this year.
Owners can boost returns by reducing a ship’s speed on a return
journey after unloading a cargo, saving on fuel costs. The
exchange’s earnings estimates don’t reflect speed cuts.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a measure of shipping crude
that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, fell 0.3 percent to
856 points, the exchange said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  