-- Death-by-Air in Beijing Shows China’s Heart Risk From Worsening Pollution
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-15T22:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/death-by-air-in-beijing-shows-china-s-heart-risk-from-worsening-pollution.html
As  smog  grounded hundreds of flights
from Beijing last week, emergency doctors at  Peking University 
People’s Hospital faced a rush of patients.  Lungs weren’t the problem, says Ding Rongjing, the
hospital’s deputy head of cardiology. Five people were admitted
for heart attacks from Dec. 4 to 6, compared with one or two a
week typically. One 60-year-old male patient died.  The illnesses are an unwanted consequence of the economic
growth that helped spur a 32 percent jump in China’s car sales
last year. Outdoor air pollution kills 1.3 million people
globally each year, the  World Health Organization  estimates. A
growing body of evidence shows dirty air not only triggers
asthma and other respiratory conditions, over time it may the
damage heart and blood vessels, and even cause  birth defects .  “Whenever we have days with bad pollution, we get
significantly more patients with symptoms like high  blood
pressure , feeling of suffocation, and chest pains,” Ding said
in an interview at the hospital, where she’s worked since 1996.
On days of extreme pollution, heart and stroke cases at the
1,450-bed center can increase as much as 40 percent to 280
patients, she said.  Before hosting the 2008 Olympics, Beijing imposed driving
limits, suspended work at construction sites and moved factories
out of the city to clean up the capital’s air. Economic growth,
averaging 10 percent a year, and a population of  19.6 million 
people expanding at a 3.8 percent clip is making air-quality
improvements harder to sustain.  Starve the Heart  Microscopic  air particles 30 times smaller than the width
of a human hair penetrate deep in the lungs, where they can pass
into the bloodstream, said  Jon Ayres , professor of environmental
and respiratory medicine at the University of Birmingham, in a
telephone interview. The contaminants increase the risk of
artery-blocking clots that can starve the heart, brain and other
organs of oxygen, according to Ayres.  “In somebody with coronary artery disease where the
arteries are narrower anyway, having blood that is more likely
to clot is a bad thing,” said Ayres, who chairs a U.K. panel on
the medical effects of air pollutants.  The danger is increased when the inhaled substances cause
the coronary arteries to become inflamed, he said.
Cardiovascular disease is the  biggest killer  in  China ,
accounting for 38 percent of deaths, the WHO says.  Traffic Jams  Constant  traffic jams  and resultant idling engines emit
lung-penetrating toxic material, said Pan Xiaochuan, a professor
of environmental health at Peking University who studies the 
impact of air pollution.  The U.S. embassy in Beijing monitors pollutants smaller 
than 2.5 micrometers in diameter, known as PM2.5, and releases
the information via Twitter.  “What is needed is better traffic management,” Pan said.
“People still drive even if the traffic is bad, and it’s hard
to convince them to take public transport after they spent so
much money to buy their own cars.”  There were 4.81 million vehicles on Beijing roads last year,
triple the number in 2000,  government data  show. Car ownership
in China is offsetting the benefits of the past decade’s efforts
to limit industrial emissions, said Xu Dongqun, deputy director
of the Institute for  Environmental Health  and Related Product
Safety at the  Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention .  Murky Haze  “The level of fine particulate matter is still increasing
because it comes not just from industrial emission and coal-
burning, but also from the large amount of cars on the roads,”
Xu said on Dec. 5 from a second-floor meeting room in central
Beijing, where  murky haze  outside rendered the housing blocks
across the street barely visible. “This is why we see the level
of PM2.5 worsening in cities.”  Emissions data on PM2.5 are slated to be made publicly
available throughout China’s cities, including Beijing, by 2016.
The timeframe is too slow, according to a Dec. 8 editorial in
the state-owned China Daily newspaper, which called on the
government to be “brave enough” to measure the tiny
contaminants.  The government currently uses an indicator known as PM10
that measures particulate as big as 10 micrometers in diameter
for its public pollution data.  Air quality  in all of the 32 Chinese cities that track
pollution fall short of WHO  guidelines . The air in Beijing is
the fifth-worst in China, based on the PM10 measure. Annual
levels average 121 micrograms per cubic meter of air, compared
with a  global average  of 71 micrograms and the 20 micrograms
recommended by the Geneva-based agency.  Deadly Air  Each 10-microgram increase above WHO guidelines for PM2.5
boosts emergency room visits for cardiovascular ailments by as
much as 7 percent, a 2009  study  by the Peking University School
of  Public Health  found.  Breathing dirty air does have an impact on mortality,
researchers found in a  12-year study  in June involving 12,584
residents of the northeastern city of Shenyang. After adjusting
for smoking and other known risk factors, the authors found
levels of PM10 and the air pollutant nitrogen oxide “were
significantly associated” with death from cardiovascular and
cerebrovascular diseases, they said.  Information on air quality in Beijing is provided by
multiple sources, including the U.S. embassy, and daily
measurements are often inconsistent. That makes it harder for
residents to know how and when they should take extra
precautions, says cardiologist Ding.  Smog Deterrent  The Chinese CDC would like to see coordinated warning data
broadcast on the nightly news, the center’s Xu said. Publicizing
the data may have implications for businesses if it means more
people are worried about air quality and are reluctant to live
in the city.  “That’s one of the major factors that has an impact on
standard of living in Beijing,” said Lee Quane, the Hong Kong-
based regional director for  Asia  at ECA International.
Executives relocating from abroad will typically opt for  Hong
Kong  over Beijing if they have choice, he said.  The human resources advisory firm recommends employers pay
Beijing staff a higher hardship allowance than those in  Chinese
cities  such as  Shanghai , Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Quane said.  “Beijing has historically had the worst air pollution out
of the 20 mainland Chinese cities that we look at,” he said.
“Many of these senior executives are married and have children,
who are much more affected by air pollution, so they need
greater financial incentives to come.”  ECA recommends companies offer an extra 15-to-25 percent of
base salary to top-level executives relocating to Beijing,
compared with 10-20 percent for Shanghai.  “We definitely worry about young kids and elderly people
with lung and heart diseases,” said Richard Saint Cyr, a doctor
at the  Beijing United Family Hospital . “Most people think it’s
just lungs. But if you’re already on the edge with  heart disease ,
and you’re out playing golf when the air pollution is really bad,
it is a very high risk for having a heart attack.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  