-- Dedini Expects Boost in 2012 Sales on New Cane Mills in Brazil
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2011-12-15T20:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/dedini-expects-boost-in-2012-sales-on-new-cane-mills-in-brazil.html
Dedini SA Industrias de Base, the
Brazilian maker of heavy equipment, expects revenue to increase
as much as 10 percent next year, largely on sales to ethanol
producers that may expand production capacity to meet demand for
the renewable fuel.  Sales of equipment related to sugar-cane processing have
generated 65 percent to 70 percent of the company’s revenue over
the past eight years, Piracicaba, Brazil-based Dedini said today
by e-mail.  Cane-processing equipment will account for less than half
the company’s sales this year, said Jose Luiz Oliverio, Dedini’s
vice president of technology and development, and total 2011
revenue will be about 1 billion reais ($538 million).  Brazilian cane companies, which curtailed investment in
mills after the 2008 credit crisis, may commit more funds to new
projects at the end of next year to meet demand from the
country’s growing fleet of cars that can run on gasoline or
straight ethanol, Oliverio said. Revenue from cane-processing
equipment may account for 60 percent of Dedini’s sales in 2012.  “The capacity that’s installed today isn’t enough to meet
demand,” Oliverio said in a telephone interview. “The last
time a decision was made to build a new mill was 2007.”  Brazil  needs more cane mills, Salim Morsy, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s Sao Paulo office, said yesterday
in an e-mail.  “Historical investment trends in Brazilian greenfield
ethanol projects certainly suggest that new mills should be
built in the coming years to serve growing fuel demand,” Morsy
said.  Ethanol Pipeline  A 1,300-kilometer (808-mile) ethanol pipeline that Logum
Logistica SA is developing to connect Brazil’s center west
region to traditional consumption centers in Sao Paulo and  Rio
de Janeiro  will also drive investments, Morsy said. The project
is scheduled to be complete by 2016, he said.  Brazil will need to build as many as 150 new mills worth 45
billion reais by 2020, Oliverio said. Three consecutive poor
harvests have masked the need for new mills, he said.  “You just can’t see it because there’s too little cane,”
he said. Brazil will crush about 570 million metric tons of cane
this harvest compared with 630 million tons last year. As
harvests improve the capacity shortage will become more visible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  