-- Democrats Urge Inclusion of Energy Tax Breaks in Payroll Deal
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2011-12-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/democrats-urge-renewable-u-s-energy-tax-breaks-in-payroll-deal.html
U.S. Senate Democrats are pressing
to include a suite of tax breaks for  renewable energy  in a
 payroll tax -cut bill that lawmakers may consider this weekend.  They are proposing to continue a program that allows
companies to claim grants instead of tax credits, extend the
main tax credit for wind energy production and revive a program
that provided tax credits to manufacturers.  “I don’t think that’s final at this point,” Senator  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat, said in an interview yesterday.
“That’s what we’re pushing for.”  They are seeking to include the tax breaks in a bill that
would extend a payroll tax-cut for workers before it expires on
Dec. 31. The tax bill is one of the few remaining items for
Congress to debate before leaving Washington for the year.  Though Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  hasn’t introduced
a payroll bill that can clear his chamber, there was growing
optimism yesterday that a stalemate over how to cover the cost
of the measure would be broken soon.  The “momentum’s building” toward a deal, Senate Finance
Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, told
reporters yesterday. “The train is starting to come down the
track.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  said there was “some movement”
toward resolution marked by a new willingness by Democrats to
compromise.  Senate Majority Whip  Richard Durbin  of Illinois said
yesterday that Democrats were open to dropping a provision that
would impose a new tax on income exceeding $1 million. The
surtax is one of the chief hurdles to a deal with Republicans.  Weekend Work  Lawmakers prepared to remain on  Capitol Hill  this weekend
to complete a payroll package that could clear the Democratic-
controlled Senate and the  House of Representatives , where
Republicans hold a majority.  Through the grant program, which also expires Dec. 31,
companies receive cash instead of tax credits. The credits are
less valuable when companies don’t have taxable income to
offset.  The wind credit doesn’t expire until the end of 2012.
Industry advocates have been urging Congress to extend it now,
because the deadline applies to the start of energy production,
meaning that the potential expiration affects investment
decisions before the deadline.  The advanced energy manufacturing credit, created in a 2009
economic stimulus law, has effectively expired.  Year-End Measure  Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico Democrat, said he has
been advocating for the energy tax provisions’ inclusion in a
year-end tax bill.  “It’s been discussed extensively,” he said in an
interview yesterday.  Reid said Dec. 13 that he planned to add the tax provisions
to the House-passed bill, which extends an expiring payroll tax
cut for employees. He said the tax package would add $35 billion
to the bill’s cost without specifying which provisions would be
included.  The wind credit and the manufacturing credit wouldn’t be
included if the tax package were limited only to provisions
expiring Dec. 31.  The list of provisions that would be extended includes
others that have previously lapsed and been revived, including
the research and development tax credit, the optional deduction
of state sales taxes and a tax credit for companies that hire
welfare recipients and other members of disadvantaged groups.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  