-- Deutsche Telekom Said to Target EU1 Billion Service Savings
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2011-12-16T08:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/deutsche-telekom-said-to-target-eu1-billion-technology-savings.html
Deutsche Telekom AG ,  Europe ’s
largest phone company, has set a target of 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) in savings by 2015 through the merger of its internal
computing and communications systems, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  The person asked not to be named as the target isn’t
public. Deutsche Telekom’s supervisory board yesterday approved
a plan to merge the information-technology systems and services
of its private customer business with that of the  T-Systems 
enterprise unit, spokesman Stefan Koenig said. Deutsche Telekom,
based in Bonn, Germany, declined to comment on cost savings.  Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  is intensifying
efforts to reduce expenses as the European debt crisis dampens
demand and challenges an attempt to return its non-German
business to growth. The T-Systems unit alone sold services
valued at 2.6 billion euros within the parent company in 2010.
The company doesn’t disclose spending on internal information
and telecommunications systems.  Deutsche Telekom yesterday extended the contract Reinhard Clemens, the T-Systems chief who will also oversee the group’s
information technology activities, by five years. Obermann will
oversee product and innovation after the departure of board
member Ed Kozel. Kozel, responsible for technology and
innovation, cited personal reasons for leaving at the end of
this year, 20 months after his appointment.  Purchasing Decisions  The merger of the internal computing and communications
systems is aimed at enabling more centralized purchasing
decisions, reduce the need for internal sales and get the
various divisions to use matching software, Koenig said.  Deutsche Telekom’s current “Save for Service” cost-
reduction program targets 4.2 billion euros in cumulative
savings between 2010 and 2012. Last year, Deutsche Telekom
completed the combination of its fixed-line and mobile
businesses in  Germany , and is following that example in other
European markets.  Deutsche Telekom added 0.2 percent to 9.05 euros at 9:34
a.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock has dropped 6.3 percent
this year, giving the company a market value of 39 billion
euros.  The savings target was reported earlier by Dow Jones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  