-- Doomsday Killer Crams Corpse With Snakes; Jerry Lewis Mania: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2011-12-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/doomsday-killer-stuffs-corpse-with-snakes-jerry-lewis-mania-greg-evans.html
This season’s Bible-based plot of
“ Dexter ” wasn’t much of a revelation. Even a gimmicky “Fight
Club” twist couldn’t elevate the Doomsday Killer (Colin Hanks)
into the show’s pantheon of memorable murderers.  Through much of the sixth season, Dexter (and viewers)
believed a string of grisly murders inspired by the Book of
Revelation to be the handiwork of two men: a loony theology
professor (Edward James Olmos) and his weak-willed protege
(Hanks).  Nine episodes in, the professor was revealed to be a
figment of the student’s twisted psyche.  Hanks could then shake off his ho-hum demeanor and head for
the nut-job heights of past “Dexter” creeps played by  John Lithgow , Jimmy Smits and Christian Camargo.  The Doomsday murders were glum and sadistic: a corpse
filled with snakes, a severed head attached to a manikin and
saddled atop a horse. An early side plot featuring actor Mos Def
as a streetwise preacher did little but burden Dex (the
impeccable Michael C. Hall) with half-baked soul-searching.  The finale, which wasn’t available for review, is titled
“This is the Way the World Ends.” Let’s hope not.  “Dexter” airs Dec. 18 on Showtime at 9 p.m. New York
time. Rating: **1/2  Jerry Lewis  So what caused that falling out between Jerry Lewis and the
Muscular Dystrophy Association last summer?  “ Method to the Madness of Jerry Lewis ,” a career-spanning
Encore documentary, doesn’t go there. Or anywhere else that
might anger the prickly comedian.  “Method” is an early holiday gift for Lewis fans, who
include the French, the young at heart and Lewis himself.  Slickly produced and directed by Gregg Barson, the
documentary stitches together film clips, old and recent stage
performances, new interviews, and paeans from celebrities
including  Jerry Seinfeld , Carol Burnett and  Steven Spielberg .  “He’s like a mountain,” says actor and comic Richard Belzer, whose arm is tattooed with a Lewis caricature. “Some
people get caught in the foot scales of him, but you have to
scale the peaks to truly appreciate the phenomenon of Jerry
Lewis.”  What?  Still, watching the Elvis-level reception of Lewis and
partner Dean Martin in the 1950s is enjoyably mysterious.  “Method to the Madness of Jerry Lewis” airs Dec. 17 on
Encore at 8 p.m. New York time. Rating: **1/2  ‘Architect and Painter’  The chair that changed America might not have been possible
without the suffering of soldiers in World War II.  The connection between the furniture and the battlefield is
a fascinating footnote in “ Charles & Ray Eames: The Architect
and the Painter ,” a documentary debuting on PBS following a
brief theatrical run.  The film is a fast-moving, visually pleasing crash course
in both modernism and the couple who made it available -- and
palatable -- to the masses.  Charles Eames and his wife Ray, who revolutionized American
design from their studio in  Venice ,  California , were an unlikely
duo.  Battlefield Splints  He was a handsome architect-school dropout. She was “a
painter who rarely painted,” described as a “dumpling” by a
former underling. He loved science and black-and-white. She
loved color and playful design.  “Eames,” narrated by  James Franco , explains how Charles
developed the contoured chair that revolutionized furniture
design with its curvy lines and rejection of overstuffed
fussiness. He only figured out how to bend plywood into that
now-ubiquitous shell-shape after inventing a method for making
battlefield splints.  The documentary, produced and directed by Jason Cohn and
Bill Jersey, is cluttered yet incomplete. It rarely pauses to
consider why the Eames designs transfixed America and why
they’re still relevant today.  “Charles & Ray Eames: The Architect and the Painter” airs
Dec. 19 on PBS at 10 p.m.  New York  time. Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 