-- Draghi Says There’s No ‘External Savior’ for Countries That Won’t Reform
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2011-12-15T13:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/draghi-says-there-s-no-external-savior-for-euro-countries-that-fail-to-act.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said there is no “external savior” for countries
that don’t implement structural reforms to restore confidence to
debt markets.  “There is no external savior for a country that doesn’t
want to save itself,” Draghi said in a speech in Berlin today.
“I will never tire of saying the first response should come
from the countries.”  The ECB is buying the bonds of debt-strapped nations such
as Italy and  Spain  after they agreed to implement austerity
measures to improve their finances. Draghi nevertheless
reiterated today that the ECB’s bond program is “neither
eternal nor infinite.”  He said an “unavoidable” short-term economic contraction
in the euro area may be mitigated by a return of confidence if
governments implement budget consolidation plans.  “In the medium term, sustainable growth can be achieved
only by undertaking deep structural reforms that have been
procrastinated for too long,” he said.  Bank Measures  While the ECB has pushed back against calls for it to step
up its bond purchases, Draghi said measures taken last week to
give banks greater access to liquidity will soon be felt.  On Dec. 8, the ECB established refinancing operations with
a maturity of three years, allowed banks to use their own loans
as collateral, and cut the required reserves ratio to 1 percent
from 2 percent.  “The current package should be felt tangibly in the
financial sector and the real economy over the coming months,”
Draghi said.  He said banks face “headwinds” as they try to meet new
Europe-wide  capital ratios .  “The plan to strengthen their capital bases is an attempt
to reinforce their standing in financial markets, but this is
not an easy process,” he said. “Raising capital levels is
expensive in a depressed market and faces resistance from
shareholders. Selling assets is less preferable and curtailing
credit to the real economy is even worse.”  Banks should consider restraining dividends and ad hoc
compensation to strengthen buffers, Draghi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff Black at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net  