-- Dubai Stocks Decline Most in 6 Weeks
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2011-12-15T10:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/dubai-stocks-drop-most-in-six-weeks-as-msci-extends-review-emaar-declines.html
Dubai stocks dropped the most in six
weeks, leading a decline in  United Arab Emirates  and Qatar,
after the two countries failed to secure emerging-market status
at index provider  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)   Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, fell the most since August. Dubai Financial Market
slid to the lowest since February 2009. Dubai’s benchmark  DFM
General Index  lost 1.3 percent, the most since Nov. 1, to
1,367.49 at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate, bringing the drop
for the week to 1.2 percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  fell
1.2 percent today as  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  declined to a record.  MSCI, whose stock indexes are tracked by investors with
about $3 trillion in assets, will extend its review to June for
reclassification of the countries from frontier status “to give
additional time for market participants to assess the
effectiveness” of the new payment systems, according to a
statement. While more regulation is needed, it has to be in
place “long enough” for investors to test it, MSCI said.  “This is disappointing news for Qatar and the U.A.E.,”
Georges Elhedery, head of global markets for the  Middle East  and
North Africa at HSBC Holdings Plc in Dubai, said in an e-mailed
statement. “It is important that the markets continue to work
toward addressing these issues and continue to raise awareness
among the international investor community.”  FGB Slides  First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB) , which last month raised its foreign
share ownership limit, retreated 3.7 percent, the most since
Aug. 9, to 15.50 dirhams. The shares had soared 12 percent since
the lender controlled by Abu Dhabi’s ruling family on Nov. 29
raised the amount of shares foreigners can hold to 25 percent
from 15 percent.  MSCI’s decision came after a delay in June to allow
investors time to assess the delivery-versus-payment models the
exchanges in both countries implemented. Market participants
said there are “significant concerns over the effectiveness of
this new framework to fully ensure the safeguarding of their
assets under certain circumstances,” the index provider said in
its statement. For Qatar, “stringent foreign ownership limits,
including on large companies, remain a major concern to
international institutional investors,” MSCI said.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  fell 0.2 percent. Qatar’s exchange doesn’t
expect foreign ownership limits in companies, currently at 25
percent, to be raised next year, or that short-selling will be
introduced, Chairman Hussein al-Abdullah said Dec. 4.  The MSCI decision was “understandable,” the exchange said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Trading volumes in the GCC have plunged this year as
foreign funds trimmed holdings of riskier assets amid regional
uprisings and as  Europe ’s debt crisis deepened.  Dubai volumes 
are at a six-year low. In Qatar, trading is down about 40
percent from the same period in 2009.  Liquidity  “I would have been happy if they said the lack of
liquidity in the markets was one of the main reasons for their
decision, but they didn’t, so I feel that they evaded the
issue,” CapM Investment PJSC’s Abu Dhabi-based Chief Investment
Officer Mohammed Ali Yasin said today. “I don’t think it was
unexpected because the market conditions in December aren’t
better than what they were in June.”  Emaar slid 4.3 percent to 2.65 dirhams, while  Dubai
Financial Market (DFM) , the only publicly traded stock market in the
region, fell 4 percent to 89.3 fils.  Aldar plunged 4.2 percent to 92 fils after the real-estate
developer said it will today exchange 2.1 billion dirhams ($572
million) worth of bonds held by Mubadala Development Co. into
shares at 1.75 dirhams each. The original conversion terms
stipulated that the bonds would be converted at not higher than
2.30 dirhams and not lower than 1.75 dirhams.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200) , which tracks the biggest 200
companies in the region, fell 0.4 percent and Kuwait’s benchmark
index retreated 0.3 percent. Oman’s MSM30 declined 0.1 percent,
while Bahrain’s gauge lost less than 0.1 percent.  Saudi Arabia ’s
stock market is closed for the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  