-- Duke Pushes Back Progress Takeover to March, Citing Ruling
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2011-12-15T21:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/duke-pushes-back-progress-takeover-to-march-citing-ruling.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  delayed the
expected closing of its $16.2 billion takeover of  Progress
Energy Inc. (PGN)  to March after U.S. regulators rejected its plan to
ease competition concerns.  The companies remain committed to the transaction and will
submit revised terms promptly, Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Duke said in a statement today. The transaction would create the
largest U.S. utility owner.  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission yesterday declared
Duke’s proposal to sell some power in  North Carolina  and South
Carolina at 10 percent above cost to preclude its ability to run
up prices insufficient. Duke had planned to close the
transaction by Jan. 1.  “The time line is shot,” Philip Adams, a Chicago-based
analyst for Gimme Credit LLC, said earlier today in an
interview. “The deal is in regulatory trouble.” Adams rates
the debt of both companies at “underperform” and doesn’t own
their stock nor bonds.  Market confidence that the deal would close as expected
waned today. Progress shares fell 1.3 percent to close at
$53.75, dropping $1.22 below the value of Duke’s all-stock
offer. The  arbitrage spread  on the deal widened by $1.18 from 4
cents yesterday. Duke shares rose less than 1 percent to close
at $21.04 in  New York , their highest close since May 15, 2002.  Duke must notify North Carolina and South Carolina
regulators of any planned federal regulatory filings under an
agreement that cleared the way for its $5.7 billion takeover of
Cinergy Corp. in 2006. Those notices will be given, it said.  The federal commission wants Duke, Raleigh, North Carolina-
based Progress and other utility owners in the U.S. Southeast to
sell their  power plants  and allow interstate oversight of
competitive wholesale power markets by regional transmission
organizations, Adams said. Southeastern regulators want to keep
utilities integrated with state-regulated power rates based
cost, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  