-- DuPont, Honeywell Said to Face EU Car-Refrigerant Probe
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2011-12-15T14:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/dupont-honeywell-said-to-face-eu-antitrust-probe-over-car-refrigerant.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the largest U.S.
chemicals company by market value, and  Honeywell International
Inc. (HON)  face a European Union antitrust probe over a refrigerant
for car air-conditioning systems, according to four people
familiar with the plan.  The European Commission will soon open a formal
investigation to examine whether DuPont and Honeywell may have
concealed their ownership of patents for the refrigerant before
the car industry agreed to use the technology as a standard,
said the people who couldn’t be identified because the issue
isn’t yet public.  Honeywell and DuPont are expecting growth from the
technology they jointly developed to meet  EU environmental rules 
to cut  greenhouse gases  from air-conditioning systems. DuPont
told investors this week that the low-emission refrigerant
promises “nice growth and some healthy margins.” Honeywell’s
speciality chemicals division has said it expects coolants to
help it make “extremely solid” profits.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said earlier
this month he planned to open “a high-profile case on
standards” to follow an investigation into standards in the
banking industry. Regulators want to make sure that intellectual
property rights “are used to reward inventions and motivate
innovation and not as tools to foreclose access for expansion in
markets.”  DuPont “has responded to inquiries from the European
Commission regarding the competitive dynamics and intellectual
property landscape” concerning the refrigerant, said Janet
Smith, a spokeswoman for the Wilmington, Delaware-based company.  Cooperation With Regulators  “DuPont will continue to cooperate fully with this inquiry
and is confident that the commission will conclude that actions
taken by DuPont complied with applicable laws,” Smith said.  Honeywell has “received requests for information from the
European Commission about the new refrigerant” and is “fully
cooperating,” said Peter Dalpe, a spokesman for the Morristown,
New Jersey-based company.  “Honeywell is confident” that its “practices are
consistent with the law and that the commission will conclude
that we acted in full compliance with European Union competition
rules,” Dalpe said in an e-mail.  European Union regulators have had mixed success with
antitrust cases over standards. The EU settled a probe of
memory-chip designer  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  in 2009 into so-called “patent
ambush.” The practice involves patent owners hiding their
intellectual property so they can demand royalties from other
companies forced to use the same technology once it becomes a
standard.  Phone Chips  The commission dropped a four-year probe into  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM) , the biggest maker of chips for mobile phones, started
after competitors complained the chipmaker was charging
excessive royalties on patents.  The refrigerant developed by Honeywell and DuPont was
designed to replace ozone-depleting chlorofluorocarbons, which
can’t be included in new cars sold in the 27-nation EU from
2017. It was  endorsed  by the Society of Automobile Engineers, an
industry group.  Honeywell and Dupont  agreed last year  on a joint venture to
produce the refrigerant from the fourth quarter this year.  The Brussels-based antitrust authority can fine companies
up to 10 percent of yearly sales or require them to change the
way they do business if it concludes that they harmed
competition.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the commission, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 