-- Dutch Bank Tax to Have Limited Effect on Credit, Government Says
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2011-12-15T17:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/dutch-bank-tax-to-have-limited-effect-on-credit-government-says.html
A proposed Dutch bank tax may cut
lending by as little as 0.05 percent, the government said,
easing concern the levy would substantially restrict credit to
households and businesses.  According to the country’s central bank’s estimates, the
tax may reduce loans by about 500 million euros ($650 million),
based on outstanding lending in September, Finance Minister Jan Kees  de Jager  said today in a memorandum explaining a draft
bill. Loan spreads may rise by about 1 basis point, which may
have an influence on demand, according to the memo.  Balance sheets of Dutch banks, including  ING Groep NV (INGA)  and
 ABN Amro  Group NV, total almost five times the size of the
country’s economy, the central bank  said  last month. The tax is
designed to raise 300 million euros annually, forcing banks to
take on some of the costs of ensuring financial stability.  The Netherlands bought Fortis’s Dutch units, including ASR
Nederland NV and parts of ABN Amro, in 2008 after the lender ran
out of short-term funding, customers withdrew deposits and
investors lost confidence. The government also provided aid to
ING,  SNS Reaal NV (SR)  and Aegon NV in 2008 and 2009.  “In the recent past it has become clear that the state is
willing to offer a helping hand to troubled banks when needed to
guarantee financial stability,” De Jager said in the
memorandum. “It is justified that the banking industry is asked
for a contribution in the shape of a bank levy. That puts a
price tag to the implicit state guarantee.”  The tax is to go into effect in mid-2012 for all lenders
active and licensed in the Netherlands. The tax will apply to
uncovered debt, with a 0.022 percent tariff on short-term debt
and 0.011 percent on debt maturing in more than a year. That may
have an additional benefit of stimulating long-term funding, the
government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  