-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for December (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 2011-12-15T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-december-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s December monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 8 December 2011 to
lower the key ECB  interest rates  by 25 basis points, following
the 25 basis point decrease on 3 November 2011. Inflation is
likely to stay above 2% for several months to come, before
declining to below 2%. The intensified financial market tensions
are continuing to dampen economic activity in the euro area and
the outlook remains subject to high uncertainty and substantial
downside risks. In such an environment, cost, wage and price
pressures in the euro area should remain modest over the policy-
relevant horizon. At the same time, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion remains moderate. Overall, it is essential
for monetary policy to maintain price stability over the medium
term, thereby ensuring a firm anchoring of inflation
expectations in the euro area in line with the Governing
Council’s aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to,
2% over the medium term. Such anchoring is a prerequisite for
monetary policy to make its contribution towards supporting
economic growth and  job creation  in the euro area.  In its continued efforts to support the liquidity situation of
euro area banks, and following the coordinated central bank
action on 30 November 2011 to provide liquidity to the global
financial system, the Governing Council also decided to adopt
further non-standard measures. These measures should ensure
enhanced access of the banking sector to liquidity and
facilitate the functioning of the euro area money market. They
are expected to support the provision of credit to households
and non-financial corporations. In this context, the Governing
Council decided:  First, to conduct two longer-term refinancing operations (LTROs)
with a maturity of 36 months and the option of early repayment
after one year. The operations will be conducted as fixed rate
tender procedures with full allotment. The rate in these
operations will be fixed at the average rate of the main
refinancing operations over ﻿the life of the respective operation.
Interest will be paid when the respective operation matures.  Second, to increase collateral availability by reducing the
rating threshold for certain asset-backed securities (ABS). In
addition to the ABS that are already eligible for Eurosystem
operations, ABS having a second-best rating of at least “single
A” in the Eurosystem harmonised credit scale at issuance, and at
all times subsequently, and the underlying assets of which
comprise residential mortgages and loans to small and medium-
sized enterprises, will be eligible for use as collateral in
Eurosystem credit operations. Moreover, national central banks
will be allowed, as a temporary solution, to accept as
collateral additional performing credit claims (namely bank
loans) that satisfy specific eligibility criteria. The
responsibility entailed in the acceptance of such credit claims
will be borne by the national central bank authorising their use.  Third, to reduce the reserve ratio, which is currently 2%, to 1%.
This will free up collateral and support money market activity.
As a consequence of the full allotment policy applied in the
ECB’s main refinancing operations and the way banks are using
this option, the system of  reserve requirements  is not needed to
the same extent as under normal circumstances to steer money
market conditions. Fourth, to discontinue for the time being the
fine-tuning operations carried out on the last day of each
maintenance period. This is a technical measure to support money
market activity.  As stated on previous occasions, all the non-standard monetary
policy measures are, by construction, temporary in nature.  As regards the economic analysis, real GDP in the euro area grew
by 0.2% quarter on quarter in the third quarter of 2011,
unchanged from the previous quarter. Evidence from survey data
points to weaker economic activity in the fourth quarter of this
year. A number of factors seem to be dampening the underlying
growth momentum in the euro area. They include a moderation in
the pace of global demand growth and unfavourable effects on
overall financing conditions and on confidence resulting from
ongoing tensions in euro area sovereign debt markets, as ﻿well as
the process of balance sheet adjustment in the financial and
non-financial sectors. At the same time, the Governing Council
expects euro area economic activity to recover, albeit very
gradually, in the course of next year, supported by resilient
global demand, very low short-term interest rates and all the
measures taken to support the functioning of the financial
sector.  This assessment is also reflected in the December 2011
Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area,
which foresee annual real GDP growth in a range between 1.5% and
1.7% in 2011, between -0.4% and 1.0% in 2012 and between 0.3%
and 2.3% in 2013. Compared with the September 2011 ECB staff
macroeconomic projections, there is a narrowing of the range of
the real GDP growth projection for 2011 and a significant
downward revision of the range for 2012. These revisions mainly
reflect the impact on domestic demand of weaker confidence and
worsening financing conditions, stemming from the heightened
uncertainty related to the sovereign debt crisis, as well as
downward revisions of foreign demand.  In the Governing Council’s assessment, substantial downside
risks to the economic outlook for the euro area exist in an
environment of high uncertainty. Downside risks notably relate
to a further intensification of the tensions in euro area
financial markets and their potential spillover to the euro area
real economy. Downside risks also relate to the global economy,
which may be weaker than expected, as well as to protectionist
pressures and the possibility of a disorderly correction of
global imbalances.  With regard to price developments, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 3.0% in November, according to Eurostat’s flash
estimate, unchanged from the previous two months. Inflation
rates have been at elevated levels since the end of last year,
mainly driven by higher energy and other commodity prices.
Looking ahead, they are likely to stay above 2% for several
months to come, before declining to below 2%. This pattern
reflects the expectation that, in an environment of weaker
growth in the euro area and globally, underlying cost, wage and
price pressures in the euro area should also remain modest.  ﻿This assessment is also reflected in the December 2011
Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area,
which foresee annual HICP inflation in a range between 2.6% and
2.8% for 2011, between 1.5% and 2.5% for 2012 and between 0.8%
and 2.2% for 2013. Compared with the September 2011 ECB staff
macroeconomic projections, the projection ranges for 2011 and
2012 have been revised slightly upwards. This results from the
upward impact of higher  oil prices  in euro terms, as well as a
higher contribution from indirect taxes. The upward impact of
these factors is expected to more than compensate the downward
adjustments to profit margins and wage growth that are related
to the downward revision of activity.  The Governing Council continues to view the risks to the medium-
term outlook for price developments as broadly balanced. On the
upside, the main risks relate to further increases in indirect
taxes and administered prices, owing to the need for fiscal
consolidation in the coming years. The main downside risks
relate to the impact of weaker than expected growth in the euro
area and globally. Turning to the monetary analysis, the annual
growth rate of M3 decreased to 2.6% in October 2011, after 3.0%
in September. The annual growth rate of loans to the private
sector, adjusted for loan sales and securitisation, increased to
3.0% in October, compared with 2.7% in September. As in the
previous two months, the monetary data for October reflect the
heightened uncertainty in financial markets.  On the counterpart side, the annual growth rates of loans to
non-financial corporations and loans to households, adjusted for
loan sales and securitisation, remained broadly unchanged in
October, at 2.3% and 2.5% respectively. The unadjusted growth
rates were lower, owing to substantial securitisation activities
in October. Overall, the figures on lending do not suggest that
the heightened financial market tensions have significantly
affected the supply of credit in the period to October. However,
given that credit supply effects can manifest themselves with
lags, close scrutiny of credit developments is warranted in the
period ahead.  ﻿Taking the appropriate medium-term perspective and looking
through short-term volatility, overall, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion remains moderate. The soundness of bank
balance sheets will be a key factor in reducing potential
negative feedback loop effects related to tensions in financial
markets, thereby facilitating an appropriate provision of credit
to the economy over time. The agreement of the European Council
of 26 October to proceed with the increase in the capital
position of banks to 9% of core Tier 1 by the end of June 2012
should improve the euro area banking sector’s resilience over
the medium term. In this respect, it is essential that national
supervisors ensure that the implementation of banks’
recapitalisation plans does not result in developments that are
detrimental to the financing of economic activity in the euro
area.  To sum up, inflation is likely to stay above 2% for several
months to come, before declining to below 2%. Intensified
financial market tensions are continuing to dampen economic
activity in the euro area and the outlook remains subject to
high uncertainty and substantial downside risks. In such an
environment, price, cost and wage pressures in the euro area
should remain modest over the policy-relevant horizon. A cross-
check with the signals from the monetary analysis confirms this
picture, with the underlying pace of monetary expansion
remaining moderate. Turning to fiscal policies, all euro area
governments urgently need to do their utmost to support fiscal
sustainability in the euro area as a whole. A new fiscal compact,
comprising a fundamental restatement of the fiscal rules
together with the fiscal commitments that euro area governments
have made, is the most important precondition for restoring the
normal functioning of financial markets. Policy-makers need to
correct excessive deficits and move to balanced budgets in the
coming years by specifying and implementing the necessary
adjustment measures. This will support public confidence in the
soundness of policy actions and thus strengthen overall economic
sentiment.  To accompany fiscal consolidation, the Governing Council has
repeatedly called for bold and ambitious structural reforms.
Going hand in hand, fiscal consolidation and structural reforms
would strengthen confidence, growth prospects and job ﻿creation.
Key reforms should be immediately carried out to help the euro
area countries to improve competitiveness, increase the
flexibility of their economies and enhance their longer-term
growth potential. The agreements following the European Council
meeting of 8-9 December 2011 are an important step in this
direction. Labour market reforms should focus on removing
rigidities and enhancing wage flexibility. Product market
reforms should focus on fully opening up markets to increased
competition.  Box 1: Additional non-standard monetary policy measures decided
by the Governing Council on 8 December 2011:  ﻿On 8 December 2011 the Governing Council of the ECB decided on
several measures to prevent adverse effects on the monetary
policy transmission mechanism stemming from the ongoing tensions
in parts of the euro area financial markets. These tensions have
the potential to hamper the monetary policy transmission
mechanism of the Eurosystem and, hence, its ability to maintain
 price stability  in the euro area. These measures are not
intended to affect the monetary policy stance.  In particular, the Governing Council decided to expand its offer
of refinancing operations by conducting two refinancing
operations with a maturity of 36 months, to support the supply
of credit to the euro area economy. This measure addresses the
risk that persistent financial market tensions could affect the
capacity of euro area banks to obtain refinancing over longer
horizons. Through these operations, the Eurosystem will ensure
that banks continue to have access to stable funding with longer
maturities. This will provide essential support to lending
activity by limiting the impact on euro area banks of the
difficult conditions in funding markets. Additionally, after one
year banks will have the option to repay outstanding amounts
received in these operations, which gives them a high degree of
flexibility, facilitating their liability management.  The Governing Council also announced a temporary expansion of
the list of collateral with regard to securities, as well as the
intention to enhance the use of eligible credit claims (i.e.
bank loans) as collateral in Eurosystem operations. These
measures also aim to support bank lending, by increasing the
amount of assets on euro area banks’ balance sheets that can be
used to obtain central bank refinancing. Expanding the list of
collateral helps to enhance the reach of the fixed rate tender
procedure with full allotment (including in the additional
longer-term refinancing operations), limiting the impact of the
financial market tensions on access to central bank refinancing.
The list of collateral is expanded to include securities backed
by loans to the real economy, as well as loans which are not
securitised (asset-backed securities and credit claims
respectively). This enables euro area banks to more readily
access Eurosystem refinancing using assets directly related to
their lending activity.  In the case of credit claims, the Governing Council decided to
temporarily accept as collateral credit claims which are
assessed at the national level as eligible. Although the vast
majority of euro area banks currently do not face collateral
shortages, this measure allows for a swift expansion of
collateral, as a precaution, in order to counter the risk of a
more broad-based collateral shortage resulting from persistent
financial market tensions. National central banks will apply
certain eligibility criteria in their evaluation of credit
claims. The Governing Council would welcome the wider use of
credit claims as collateral ﻿in Eurosystem operations on the
basis of harmonised criteria. To this end, the Eurosystem aims
to enhance its internal credit assessment capabilities and
encourages potential external credit assessment providers, as
well as commercial banks using an internal ratings-based system,
to seek endorsement under the Eurosystem Credit Assessment
Framework.  The Governing Council also decided on measures aimed at
fostering money market activity. The proper functioning of euro
area money markets is essential to ensure that monetary policy
impulses are transmitted via the banking system to the euro area
economy. Accordingly, it decided to discontinue the fine-tuning
operations carried out at the end of maintenance periods. These
operations, which, in a situation of balanced liquidity
conditions, help to limit the volatility of short-term money
market rates, especially on the last day of a maintenance period,
are not needed under the current circumstances, given that there
is excess liquidity in aggregate terms. The Governing Council
also decided to temporarily reduce the reserve ratio from 2% to
1% in order to increase incentives for market participants to
engage in money market transactions, as this increases the cost
to banks of holding liquidity buffers, which are an alternative
to money market trades for smoothing out intra-maintenance
period liquidity shocks. In this context, it should be noted
that reserve requirements are technically not needed in an
environment of excess liquidity. This measure also increases the
collateral available to banks, as it reduces their liquidity
needs vis-à-vis the Eurosystem and thereby the amount of
collateral that needs to be posted.  In the view of the Governing Council, these measures are
essential to safeguard the effectiveness of the monetary policy
transmission mechanism. In particular, they will help to remove
impediments to access to finance in the economy stemming from
spillovers from the sovereign debt crisis to banks’ funding
markets and to asset valuation. The measures will thereby help
to ensure continued access to finance for households, non-
financial corporations and financial intermediaries at
favourable conditions, thus contributing to maintaining price
stability over the medium term in the euro area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  