-- Medical Devices Need Greater Follow Up After U.S. Approval, Senators Say
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2011-12-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/medical-devices-need-tracking-after-fda-clearance-senators-say.html
U.S. regulators would gain greater
authority to track the use of devices, such as hip implants from
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and vaginal meshes made by Boston Scientific
Corp., that have sparked thousands of patient lawsuits, under a
bill introduced in the Senate.  Under the legislation, the  Food and Drug Administration 
could order companies to conduct safety studies of devices after
they’re approved and could grant conditional approvals pending
the result of ongoing trials. That would strengthen rules for
products approved through the so-called 510(k) system, which now
requires companies only to show their devices are similar to
those already on the market.  The procedure was used to clear hip implants recalled in
2010 by J&J, the world’s largest maker of medical devices, and
vaginal meshes that spurred an FDA warning earlier this year. In
July, the  Institute of Medicine , a U.S. advisory group, urged
the FDA to replace 510(k), saying it didn’t ensure safety.  “Faulty medical devices, especially those implanted in the
body, can have disastrous health impacts on patients,” said
U.S. Senator Herb Kohl, one of the bill’s three sponsors, in a
 statement . “This legislation will help ensure that FDA can act
quickly and decisively when there’s a problem and that the drive
toward getting new technologies to market won’t come at the risk
of patient safety.”  The legislation was introduced by Kohl, a Wisconsin
Democrat, Senator  Charles Grassley , a Republican of  Iowa , and
Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Connecticut Democrat.  Letters to Companies  The senators have sent letters to five companies that
recalled faulty medical devices, including  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based J&J,  Minneapolis , Minnesota-based  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) 
and  Murray Hill , New Jersey-based  CR Bard Inc. (BCR) , requesting
information about how the manufacturers conduct post-market
surveillance and manage recalls.  Jeffrey Shuren , director of the FDA’s device-review center,
declined to comment on the legislation, saying he hadn’t yet
seen the bill.  The agency is limited in its current authority to order
post-approval reviews, said Christy Foreman, director of the
FDA’s Office of Device Evaluation. Studies like those it
required earlier this year by J&J and other hip-implant makers
can’t last longer than three years, Foreman said. And the agency
can’t mandate long-term studies as part of 510(k) approvals, she
said in an interview.  Lobby Response  The  Advanced Medical Technology Association , the device
industry lobby group in  Washington , opposes expanding FDA’s
post-market authority because it is unnecessary, said Janet
Trunzo, executive vice president for technology and regulatory
affairs at the group.  “It is important for the American public to realize that
the medical technology industry has a well-documented safety
record,” Trunzo said in a statement. “Several recent studies
have shown that for the vast majority of products cleared by the
FDA, less than 0.5 percent are involved in a serious recall.”  The legislation should be included in reauthorization of
the FDA’s medical device user fee program that helps fund the
review process, Grassley said. The program must be reauthorized
by October. While consumer advocates have criticized the FDA as
too lax, the agency has also come under fire this year from
device makers who say reviews take too long.  Shuren, in a meeting yesterday with investors in  New York ,
said the FDA had heard the complaints and is making the process
faster and more consistent.  The percentage of 510(k) applications granted a final
decision has risen to 78 percent this year, after four years of
declines. The percentage of initial reviews in which the FDA has
sought more information may fall for the first time since 2002,
he said. The meeting was held by Wells Fargo & Co.  “Our mission is to protect the public health,” Shuren
said. “But it’s also to promote public health by promoting
innovation. There’s this misperception out there that the two
are inconsistent but we think they are very compatible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 