-- Egypt Uncertainty Sends Bond Yield to Record, Suffocates Growth
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2011-12-15T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/egypt-uncertainty-sends-bond-yield-to-record-suffocates-growth.html
Egypt ’s dollar bond headed for its
worst weekly loss amid political uncertainty that has pushed the
currency to a seven-year low and reduced economic growth to the
lowest  level  in almost a decade.  Voting ended yesterday in the latest round of elections,
the first since the uprising that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak 
in February. While Islamist groups made early gains, the make-up
of parliament won’t be clear until final results are announced
in January, nor will the balance of power between the assembly,
the Cabinet and the country’s ruling military council. Wrangling
over the details of the handover to civilian rule has helped
push bond yields to record highs.  The Cabinet will meet on Dec. 18 to discuss austerity
measures after raising its deficit outlook for the fiscal year
through June by 16 percent to 160 billion pounds ($27 billion),
equivalent to about 10 percent of gross domestic product. Egypt
may need to resume loan talks with the  International Monetary
Fund  and tap financing sources in other Arab countries,
International Cooperation and Planning Minister Fayza Aboulnaga
said yesterday.  “This will not comfort investors because investment here
is at a standstill, not just because of the unrest, but because
there is confusion in government decision-making,” said  Alia Mamdouh , an economist at Cairo-based investment bank CI Capital.  The yield on 5.75 percent notes due April 2020 surged to a
record 8.02 percent at 9:04 p.m. yesterday and has jumped by
almost a percentage point this week. Tourism and foreign
investment have slumped since the popular uprising began in
January. The pound has weakened almost 4 percent this year, to
6.02 per dollar, even as the central bank spent almost half its
foreign exchange reserves.  IMF Negotiations  Talks with the IMF over a possible $3.2 billion loan were
suspended in June. The deterioration of public finances since
then will make negotiations harder, said Mamdouh. “The question
is: Will the IMF give you the same offer? The  credit rating  is
down, the reserves are falling sharply and they have now raised
the deficit target.”  In November,  Standard & Poor’s  reduced Egypt’s credit
rating for a fourth time this year to B+, four steps below
investment grade.  The economy expanded at an annual rate of 0.5 percent in
the three months through September, according to a Cabinet
briefing document shown to Bloomberg News today. While this is
more than the 0.4 percent growth of the preceding three months,
“there are some negative indicators,” Aboulnaga said in an
interview, without elaborating.  Spending Cuts  The government will announce a plan to cut expenditure by
20 billion pounds within days to reduce the  budget deficit , Al
Masry Al Youm reported, citing an unidentified official. The
cuts won’t affect health care, education or pensions, the Cairo-
based newspaper cited the official as saying.  Egypt missed its sale target for one-year Treasury bills
yesterday, raising 3.38 billion pounds, or 120 million pounds
less than it had aimed for. The Ministry of Finance paid an
average yield of 15.226 percent on the securities, three basis
points, or 0.03 of a percentage point, higher than the previous
sale, according to its website and central bank data on
Bloomberg.  Run-offs for the second round of elections, which covers
Aswan, Menoufiya and seven other provinces, are due to begin on
Dec. 21, with the third and final round scheduled for Jan. 3.
Final results will be announced on Jan. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 