-- Lehman Matches Zell’s $1.3 Billion Bid for Archstone Property Unit Stake
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2011-12-15T18:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/lehman-matches-zell-s-1-3-billion-bid-for-archstone-property-unit-stake.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. told
 Bank of America (BAC)  Corp. and Barclays Plc it would buy half their
stake in Archstone, owner of apartments in the U.S. and  Germany ,
for $1.33 billion, matching an offer by Equity Residential,
according to a person with knowledge of the deal.     Lehman
mailed its offer to the banks last night, meeting a deadline to
exercise its right to buy the stake, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the process is confidential. The
purchase of 26.5 percent of Archstone is a bid by Lehman to get
control of its biggest real estate asset.  The bankrupt securities firm, which has approval for a $65
billion liquidation plan, will ask a judge to let it use some of
the Lehman estate’s cash to increase its stake in Archstone to
73.5 percent from 47 percent with the cash offer, according to
another person familiar with the plans.  The offer shifts the onus to  Sam Zell ’s Equity Residential
to exercise its option to buy the other 26.5 percent of
Archstone held by Bank of America and Barclays.  Equity
Residential (EQR) , the largest publicly traded U.S. apartment
landlord, has said it would like to own all of Archstone to gain
properties in major U.S. markets at a time when rental demand is
rising and the national vacancy rate is at a five-year low.  Equity Residential hasn’t decided whether to exercise its
option for the second piece and won’t make a determination until
Lehman completes its purchase of the first interest, said Marty
McKenna, a spokesman for the Chicago-based company.  ‘Nothing to Do’  “There’s nothing to do here until if and when they close
on the first piece,” McKenna said in a telephone interview
today. “It’s nonbinding, so that’ll have to carry out before we
start to make a determination about the second 26.5 percent.
There’s certainly been no determination about a price for the
second piece.”  Lehman has disagreed with Bank of America and  Barclays (BARC)  over
how best to extract value from the apartment landlord. Lehman
favored waiting for a public offering or sale of the entire
company, and Bank of America and Barclays sought to sell their
combined 53 percent interest as soon as possible.  The two banks on Dec. 2 agreed to sell Equity Residential
half of their stake and granted it an option to buy the second
half for $1.33 billion or more. Lehman has the right to match
any offer from Zell, chairman of Equity Residential, for the
second piece.  Sell or Liquidate  Lehman seeks to sell or liquidate Archstone for at least $6
billion of equity value, according to a person with knowledge of
the plan. Its strategy depends on taking over Archstone, said
that person, who asked not to be named because the money-raising
efforts are private.  Archstone was acquired by Lehman in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP in October 2007 as
commercial real estate prices peaked. Lehman, saddled with debt,
filed for the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September
2008, as credit markets froze worldwide.  Lehman has until Dec. 25 to file a motion on its matching
bid with the  bankruptcy court  and until Jan. 24 to get court
approval for its purchase, two people with knowledge of the
timetable said. Lehman also must obtain financing by the January
deadline, said one of the other people.  Part of Process  Lehman along with its affiliates has about $23 billion of
available cash, according to court papers.  Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman, and Brandon Ashcraft, a Barclays spokesman, both declined to comment. Kerrie McHugh, a spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank
of America, said she had no immediate comment.  “This is just part of a process that will carry out over
the next 40 days or so,” said McKenna of Equity Residential.  As of Sept. 30, Archstone had stakes in about 428 apartment
complexes with about 74,000 units, including some under
construction, according to the company. The total comprises 179
properties with about 60,000 units in the U.S. and 249 sites
with about 14,000 units in Germany.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  