-- Lehman Sues Barclays, Bank of America for Archstone Deal Contract Breach
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2011-12-16T19:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/lehman-sues-barclays-bank-of-america-over-archstone-deal-1-.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. sued
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  for breach of contract
after they agreed to sell a stake in apartment landlord
Archstone to  Sam Zell ’s Equity Residential, Archstone’s
“largest competitor,” according to court papers.  Lehman told the banks it would buy half of their stake in
Archstone, its biggest real estate asset, for $1.33 billion,
meeting a deadline to exercise its right to make the purchase,
according to a lawsuit filed yesterday. The suit seeks to
clarify the terms of Lehman’s right to buy the stake, to make
the banks carry out their obligations under agreements in place,
and to postpone deadlines for the purchase, Lehman said in the
suit filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  The former securities firm, which received approval for a
$65 billion liquidation plan, has the right to match Zell’s
offer. The two banks had agreed to sell 26.5 percent of
Archstone to  Equity Residential (EQR)  and granted the Chicago-based
company an option to buy the second half of their stake in the
apartment owner for $1.33 billion or more.  “In violation of several significant contractual
provisions, defendants have conspired to sell their combined
approximately 53 percent interests in Archstone to Archstone’s
largest competitor -- Equity Residential,” Lehman said in the
suit. Having “breached the Archstone agreements and the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing implied therein,
defendants should not be allowed to benefit from the terms of
those agreements,” Lehman said.  Sale Information  The banks also failed “to provide information about the
sale process to plaintiffs on a regular basis and in a
commercially reasonable manner,” it said.  Even after notifying Lehman about the proposed deal with
Zell, the banks omitted key information, Lehman said.  Kerrie McHugh, a spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, and Brandon Ashcraft, a spokesman for
London-based Barclays, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Suing the banks, Lehman wants an injunction that would stop
them from completing any transfer to Zell’s company. In
addition, it seeks to divest the banks of their  voting rights  in
Archstone, and to recover damages and legal fees from them.  According to Lehman, the banks have been negotiating for
months with Zell and other parties about selling their Archstone
stake. Lehman’s original agreement with the banks gave it until
Jan. 23 to get court approval for its purchase, make a $66
million deposit and complete the deal, paying the balance of the
$1.33 billion, it said.  Tishman Buyout  Lehman seeks to sell or liquidate Archstone for at least $6
billion, according to a person with knowledge of the plan. Its
strategy depends on taking control of Archstone, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the deliberations are
private.  Should Lehman buy half the stake held by the banks, Equity
Residential probably would bid “at least” $1.45 billion for
the second half, to maximize its potential breakup fee of $80
million under the purchase agreement, said Andrew McCulloch,
senior analyst at Green Street Advisors Inc., a  Newport Beach ,
California-based researcher of real estate investment trusts.  “We place a very high probability on EQR bidding for the
remaining 26.5 percent stake,” McCulloch wrote in a report
yesterday. Equity Residential would have about 30 days -- until
late February -- after Lehman completes its purchase to make its
offer, he said. “A final resolution to the Archstone saga is
still likely months away.”  No Price Determination  Lehman must complete its purchase of the first interest
before Equity Residential decides whether to make a bid for the
second stake, Marty McKenna, an Equity Residential spokesman,
said yesterday.  “There’s certainly been no determination about a price for
the second piece,” he said.  Archstone was acquired by Lehman in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP in October 2007 as
commercial real estate prices peaked. Lehman, Bank of America,
Barclays and other lenders assumed or provided secured loans,
according to the lawsuit.  Lehman, whose share of the secured debt was more than $3
billion, filed for the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
September 2008 as credit markets froze worldwide.  Archstone was twice restructured afterward, with the
lenders committing another $485 million in 2009 and converting
$5.2 billion of debt to equity in 2010, according to court
papers.  In U.S.,  Germany   As of Sept. 30, Archstone had stakes in about 428 apartment
complexes with about 74,000 units, including some under
construction, according to the company. The total comprises 179
properties with about 60,000 units in the U.S. and 249 sites
with about 14,000 units in Germany.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan). The complaint is Archstone LB Syndication Partner
LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.), 11-02928, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  