-- Emerging-Markets Stocks Decline to Three-Week Low on Signs of China Slump
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2011-12-15T22:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/emerging-markets-stocks-decline-to-three-week-low-on-china-korea-slowdown.html
Emerging-market stocks fell to a
three-week low as data showed  China ’s manufacturing may contract
for a second month and crude prices fell.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped for a sixth day,
sliding 0.8 percent to 896.68 at the close in New York, the
lowest since Nov. 25. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
Chinese stocks listed in  Hong Kong  lost 2.1 percent.  Brazil ’s
benchmark gauge fell 0.6 percent. The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100) 
rose 1.1 percent in Istanbul and the  Micex Index  advanced 1.5
percent in Moscow.  The MSCI gauge pared earlier losses of 1.5 percent as U.S.
jobless claims and New York- and Philadelphia-area manufacturing
indicators signaled the world’s largest economy is
strengthening. HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics’s
manufacturing index for China showed a contraction for December,
while another report showed foreign direct investment fell last
month, the  first decline  since 2009. Crude oil retreated to
settle at $93.87 a barrel in  New York .  “China faces some headwinds from weaker exports,”
Flemming Nielsen, an analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen,
wrote in an e-mailed note to clients. The bank said the data led
it to cut a forecast for Chinese economic growth in 2012 to 8.5
percent from 8.9 percent. “However, at this stage, it appears
that the headwinds China faces are far less severe than in the
wake of the financial meltdown in late 2008.”  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index retreated over the past
week as data from China to Brazil fueled concerns  Europe ’s debt
crisis is weighing on economic growth in emerging markets.
Developing market stocks have fallen 22 percent this year, while
 developed markets (MXWO)  have lost 11 percent.  Brazil Rebounds  Brazilian stocks fell for a second day as  oil companies 
followed crude prices lower. Oil driller  Petroleo Brasileiro SA 
lost 1.4 percent and  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA 
declined 2.4 percent.  U.S. jobless claims dropped by 19,000 to 366,000 last week,
the fewest since May 2008 and below the median forecast of 47
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Manufacturing in the New York
region expanded more than forecast to the highest level in seven
months, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s
general economic index. The Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s general economic index increased to 10.3,
indicating expansion in the area.  The  BUX Index (BUX)  jumped 1.5 percent in Budapest and the forint
strengthened 1 percent versus the euro as the government signed
a deal with the country’s banks on measures to help foreign-
currency mortgage holders.  Shanghai Stocks  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell for a sixth day.  Foreign direct investment in China slid 9.8 percent last
month, the Ministry of Commerce said in a statement in Beijing.
A preliminary reading of 49 in December for the purchasing
managers’ index compared with a final 47.7 in November. A number
below 50 points to a contraction.  China will ensure the overall consumer prices are
“basically stable” while guaranteeing steady economic growth
next year, Xinhua News Agency said. The report came after the
conclusion of the government’s annual central economic work
conference, which sets the tone for economic policies for the
following year.  The Brazilian real appreciated 1.1 percent while the
 Mexican peso  lost 0.2 percent versus the dollar.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 422, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  