-- EON Invests $9 Billion in Renewables as Germany Drops Nuclear
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2011-12-15T15:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/eon-invests-9-billion-in-renewables-as-germany-drops-nuclear-generation.html
EON AG ,  Germany ’s biggest utility,
said it’s investing 7 billion euros ($9.1 billion) in renewable
energy projects over the next five years as the country drops
nuclear power generation.  EON plans to build at least three offshore wind projects,
including the 1 billion-euro Amrumbank West farm in the North
Sea, Dusseldorf-based EON said in an e-mailed statement today.
 Siemens AG , Europe’s biggest engineering company, will supply
the the 288-megawatt plant with 80 of its turbines.  “Renewables are a cornerstone of our strategy, and
offshore wind is one of EON’s growth areas,” Chief Executive
Officer Johannes Teyssen said in the statement. “We intend to
commission a new offshore wind farm every 18 months.”  Germany,  Europe ’s biggest economy, seeks to install 10,000
megawatts of sea-based  wind turbines  this decade as it raises
the share of renewables and phases out atomic energy. Utilities
including EON and  RWE AG (RWE)  are selling assets and cutting jobs to
lower costs and boost profit margins as the nuclear exit removes
revenue streams.  EON is cutting as many as 11,000 positions and announced a
64 percent slide in nine-month profit, in part because of the
phase-out.  The utility plans a 219-megawatt wind farm off the U.K. and
a 48-megawatt facility off Sweden’s southern Baltic Sea coast.
Both projects, which have a combined cost of about 970 million
euros, will use turbines supplied by Vestas Wind Systems AS, EON
said.  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi disaster in March spurred
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government to revise its nuclear
 energy policy  with a plan to shut the country’s 17 reactors by
2022.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  