-- Fukushima Dismantling to Start After Cold Shutdown
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a ,   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2011-12-16T07:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/tepco-said-to-expect-approval-to-start-decommissioning-fukushima-station.html
(Corrects name spelling in 12th paragraph and water
measure in 14th of story first published on Dec. 16.)  Japan’s Prime Minister  Yoshihiko
Noda  said the Fukushima nuclear reactors have been brought to a
state of cold shutdown, a disputed milestone that will likely
allow the return of some evacuees and eventual dismantling of
the plant.  Speaking at his office in Tokyo, Noda said today that the
government and  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  had contained the
nuclear crisis that occurred after the reactors in northeast
Japan were crippled by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  “A stable condition has been achieved, and we can consider
the accident itself contained,” Noda said.  Cold shutdown describes a reactor’s cooling system
operating at atmospheric pressure and below 93 degrees Celsius
(200 degrees Fahrenheit), according to the  U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission . The utility has released data showing it
meets these criteria at Fukushima, the site of the worst nuclear
accident since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster, though some nuclear
scientists say the term doesn’t apply to melted reactors.  “Achieving cold shutdown does not change the condition of
the reactors,” Tadashi Narabayashi, a former reactor safety
researcher at  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and now a nuclear engineering
professor at  Hokkaido University , said by phone. “It does mean
the government will start reviewing evacuation zones and perhaps
lifting restrictions depending on extent of contamination.”  Return Home  While the status of the reactors is in dispute, it remains
that swathes of land, towns and villages in Fukushima are highly
contaminated by radiation fallout and are likely to be
uninhabitable for two decades or more.  Radiation has forced the evacuation of about 160,000 people
and the government has yet to say how many can return and when.  “We want to make a united effort for them to return home
as soon as possible and rebuild their livelihoods,” Noda said.  Tokyo  Electric has battled explosions, aftershocks,
equipment breakdowns and leaks of contaminated water after the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami hit the plant and knocked out
power to reactor cooling systems. Three reactor cores
subsequently melted, causing the biggest civilian nuclear
disaster since Chernobyl in 1986.  The utility, known as Tepco, said in September it had
restored stable cooling of the three reactors at the Dai-Ichi
plant and reduced their temperatures below 100 degrees Celsius.
Last month, it assessed the  radiation exposure  at the plant’s
boundaries at 0.1 millisievert a year, below its target of 1
millisievert a year.  ‘Extraordinarily Hot’  The drop in radiation was the second of two criteria
imposed by the country’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency
before the watchdog would consider the plant stable.  It’s an achievement to have restored cooling and gotten
water temperatures to 100 degrees, said Arnie Gundersen, a
Vermont-based nuclear engineer who has testified to the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission on Fukushima, said in a phone
interview.  “But I don’t know why they choose to say cold shutdown
because that’s an affront to those in the industry who really
know what the term means,” he said. “That nuclear core is
still in a configuration where the center is extraordinarily
hot.”  Besides maintaining stable cooling of the reactors and
spent-fuel pools at the plant, Tepco has to manage  storage tanks 
holding thousands of metric tons of contaminated water.  ‘Hardest Part Starts’  “Now the hardest part starts, which is the cleanup,” said
Najmedin Meshkati, a professor of civil engineering at the
University of  Southern California , who worked as a consultant on
decommissioning Chernobyl.  Experiences in other countries show the scale of the task
still facing Tepco as it begins decommissioning the reactors,
and cleaning contaminated waste, even without the complications
posed by the damage at Fukushima.  Cold War weapons production in the U.S. left the country
with “a significant nuclear cleanup legacy, including high-
level waste, contaminated soil and groundwater,” Daniel Poneman, the U.S. Deputy Secretary at the  Department of Energy ,
said in Tokyo yesterday.  The Hanford Site in Washington State and the Savannah River
Site in  South Carolina  have more than 90 million gallons of
liquid waste in tanks the government is working to convert into
more stable forms that do not threaten the environment, he said.  Japan ’s government has requested support from the U.S. to
decommission the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant as well as managing
the site from an environmental perspective, he said.  ‘Long Way’  “Work on decommissioning is a long way off. For now, they
have to focus on making robots to remove melted fuel and
developing new technologies to demolish facilities,” said
Narabayashi at Hokkaido University.  In addition, there are about 7 kilometers of plastic pipe
in the makeshift cooling system that will need to be replaced
with metal versions, he said.  Gundersen said that declaring the cold shutdown at
Fukushima risks further eroding people’s faith in the
government’s ability to regulate the nuclear power industry.  “I actually think it’s going to blow up in their face,”
he said. “In the eyes of the Japanese public, the last thing
they need to do is exaggerate. And this is an exaggeration.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  