-- Erste Bank of Austria Sends Risk Head to Hungary Following Mortgage Losses
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2011-12-15T08:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/erste-bank-of-austria-sends-risk-head-to-hungary-following-mortgage-losses.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , eastern
 Europe ’s second-biggest bank, is sending Bernhard Spalt, chief
risk officer, to Hungary as bad debts soared following a
government decision forcing banks to swallow mortgage losses.  Spalt will take over risk management at Erste Bank Hungary
Zrt., the nation’s second-biggest lender, from Feb. 1, the
Vienna-based bank said in a statement today. The position had
been vacant since the summer.  The lender set aside 701 million euros ($912 million) in
the nine months to Sept. 30 to cover bad loans in Hungary
following Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s foreign-currency
mortgage law passed in September. The provision is almost four
times the 180 million euros the bank set aside for souring loans
in  Hungary  in the same period of last year.  “With Bernhard Spalt, Hungary will have the most capable
risk manager anyone can hope for,” Chief Executive Officer
Andreas Treichl said in the statement. “His experience and
persistence are a guarantee that our subsidiary in Hungary will
soon be seeing less risky times.”  Erste, which pledged to inject 600 million euros into its
Hungarian unit on Oct. 10 to cover losses this year, needs a
“complete strategic rethink” of its business in Hungary because
of the “unstable and unpredictable” market environment under
Orban, Radovan Jelasity, Erste’s Chief Executive Officer in
Hungary, told analysts and investors on Dec. 9.  Romanian Appointment  Spalt’s position on Erste’s management board will be taken
by Gernot Mittendorfer, the board member heading corporate and
investment banking. Franz Hochstrasser will take on
Mittendorfer’s role as well as keeping responsibility for
treasury and capital markets.  Martin Skopek, the board member overseeing the customer
unit, will move to  Romania  and head the retail business at
Erste’s Banca Comerciala Romana, the country’s biggest bank. He
will replace Oana Petrescu, who has resigned and will leave in
March.  The board reshuffle cuts Erste’s management board to five
members from seven. The remaining five members’ contracts, which
were due to expire in 2012, were extended for five years until
mid-2017, Erste said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  