-- Dollar Falls as Stronger Economic Data, Spain Auction Crimp Haven Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2011-12-15T22:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/euro-advances-for-first-time-in-4-days-against-dollar-climbs-versus-yen.html
The dollar dropped against the
majority of its most-traded counterparts as U.S. economic data
showed a quickening recovery and European funding stress eased,
damping demand for the safety of the U.S. currency.  The 17-nation euro rallied from an 11-month low against the
dollar as  Spain  sold more than its maximum target at a debt
auction and a report showed European manufacturing and service
industries contracted less this month than economists forecast.
The Swiss franc advanced after the central bank refrained from
introducing additional measures to weaken the currency. The
Brazilian real and the Australian dollar strengthened on
improved demand for higher-returning assets.  “With the Spanish bond auction, yields are still high, but
when you’re able to sell all the bonds that they wanted to,
that’s a good sign,” said  John Doyle , a strategist in
 Washington  at currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc. “We
followed up with fairly decent numbers here in the U.S. and it
has kept with the narrative of a slightly risk-on kind of day.”  The dollar fell 0.3 percent to $1.3016 per euro at 5 p.m.
in New York, after falling as much as 0.5 percent. Yesterday it
reached $1.2946, the strongest level since Jan. 11. The
greenback fell 0.3 percent to 77.86 yen. The European currency
was little changed at 101.34 yen.  Annual Changes  The dollar has gained 2.1 percent against nine developed-
nation counterparts this year, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has dropped 0.6 percent
and the yen strengthened 5.1 percent.  Brazil ’s real strengthened 0.9 percent to 1.8799 per dollar
and the Aussie gained as much as 0.8 percent to 99.89 U.S.
cents.  The real’s gain came as the central bank said it will lend
dollars to help exporters, adding to the supply of the U.S.
currency. The central bank will hold an auction to sell dollars
with an agreement to repurchase them at a later date.  The euro rallied after the currency’s 14-day relative
strength index against the dollar fell to 29 yesterday, below
the 30-level that some traders see as a sign a currency may be
poised to reverse direction.  “We’re having a natural short-covering bounceback after
three or four days of very severe selloffs,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of research at online currency trader GFT
Forex in New York. A short is a bet the price of an asset will
fall. “We had a very significant calming in European credit
markets and the U.S. data was pretty good, which is underpinning
the risk sentiment.”  Taylor View  John Taylor , founder of the world’s largest currency hedge
fund FX Concepts LLC, said the euro should be trading lower and
there remains a “distinct possibility” it will drop to parity
with the dollar. Repatriation of assets is what’s keeping the
euro from weakening, Taylor said in a Bloomberg Television
interview.  Spain sold 6.03 billion euros ($7.9 billion) of bonds
today, compared with the maximum target of 3.5 billion euros the
Treasury set for the auction. The yield on the security due in
April 2021, which acts as the 10-year benchmark, was 5.545
percent, compared with 5.433 percent when it was last auctioned
on Oct. 20. The nation also sold debt due in 2016 and 2020.  The euro also gained after London-based Markit Economics
said its euro-area composite index based on a survey of
purchasing managers in both services and manufacturing
industries rose to 47.9 from 47 in November. Economists forecast
a drop to 46.5, according to a Bloomberg News survey. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction.  All of the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg dropped
against the dollar this week through yesterday, with the euro
losing 3 percent.  Swiss Banks  The franc gained the most in eight weeks against the euro
after  Switzerland ’s central bank left its limit on the currency
unchanged, resisting pressure from exporters to further curb its
strength as officials assess deflation risks.  The  Swiss National Bank  kept the franc’s minimum exchange
rate at 1.20 per euro, in line with the forecasts of nine out of
13 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The central bank also
maintained its benchmark  interest rate  at zero.  The franc appreciated 1.1 percent to 1.2237 per euro, the
biggest gain since Oct. 20. The currency rose 1.4 percent to
94.00 centimes per dollar.  China  sold $14.2 billion of its  Treasury holdings  in
October, according to Treasury Department data released today.
While it remains the biggest foreign holder of  U.S. debt , its
$1.13 trillion stake is the smallest since July 2010.  “It really is a very, very troublesome development,” said
 Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in  New York  at Bank
of New York Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank,
with more than $26 trillion in assets under administration.
“This suggests that China may have changed its strategy of how
it manages its foreign exchange reserves, specifically the
reinvestment of foreign exchange proceeds from intervention in
the market.”  Yuan Pricing  Trading in the  yuan , a denomination of China’s currency, is
limited to a band set daily by the People’s Bank of China. It’s
allowed to move 0.5 percent on either side of that rate.  The Chinese currency dropped for a third day after the
central bank set its daily fixing 0.04 percent weaker at 6.3421
per dollar.  The Treasury’s data are forecast to be revised in 2012. On
Feb. 28 the Treasury revised earlier estimates, showing China’s
Treasury investments in October 2010 were a record $1.18
trillion, 30 percent more than the initial estimate of $906.8
billion.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general  economic
index  rose to 9.5, from 0.6 in November. Economists projected
the gauge would rise to 3, based on the median of 55 forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey. A separate report showed that the
number of applications for  unemployment benefits  dropped last
week to 366,000, the lowest level in three years, showing the
U.S. labor market is healing.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the U.S. currency against those of six trading
partners, dropped 0.3 percent to 80.314. Yesterday it touched
80.730, the highest since Jan. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  