-- European Stocks Advance on Economic Data; Old Mutual Shares Gain
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2011-12-15T16:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/europe-futures-erase-losses-asian-shares-drop-s-p-futures-little-changed.html
European  stocks advanced amid
speculation that this year’s slump in equities isn’t
commensurate with the outlook for corporate earnings and as
economic data from the U.S. and the euro area topped estimates.  Insurance  companies led the gains.  Old Mutual Plc (OML)  rallied
11 percent after saying it will sell its Nordic business for 2.1
billion pounds ($3.3 billion). TUI AG, the owner of Europe’s
largest travel company, rose after analysts upgraded the stock.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 1 percent to 234.73 at
the close in  London , after U.S. initial jobless claims
unexpectedly fell last week. The benchmark gauge has still lost
15 percent this year as the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis
spread to  Italy  and Spain and U.S. economic growth slowed.  “I’m looking at attractive valuations on equities,” said
Tom Elliott, a global strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management,
which has about $1.3 trillion in client funds. “The mix of an
improvement in leading economic indicators plus attractive
valuations should help propel markets,” He spoke in a Bloomberg
Television interview with  Mark Barton .  The  Stoxx 600  fell to its lowest level since Nov. 29
yesterday as the U.S. Federal Reserve refrained from taking new
action to bolster the world’s largest economy. The gauge trades
at 10.2 times estimated profits, a discount of 15 percent to its
average price-earnings ratio of 12 over the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S.,  European (SXXP)  Data  Shares extended gains after U.S. Labor Department figures
showed the number of applications for  unemployment benefits 
dropped by 19,000 to 366,000 in the week ended Dec. 10, the
fewest since May 2008. The median forecast of 47 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News had projected 390,000.  Spanish  government bonds  advanced after the nation sold 6
billion euros ($7.8 billion) of debt at an auction today, more
than the maximum target of 3.5 billion euros.  A report showed  Germany ’s manufacturing industry contracted
less than estimated. An index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the manufacturing industry rose to 48.1 this month
from 47.9 in November, London-based Markit Economics said today.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had expected a drop to 47.5.
Readings below 50 indicate a contraction. Germany’s services
output unexpectedly rose, the report showed.  In  France , the Purchasing & Services Managers’ Index rose
to 48.7 in December from 47.3 in November. This topped the
average economist estimate for a reading of 47, according to
Bloomberg data.  New Capital Rules  The ECB is pushing to change new capital rules for  banks (SX7P)  to
prevent “aggressive deleveraging” and a credit crunch possibly
leading to recession, Market News International reported, citing
unidentified sources.  The agency reported the ECB supports a new proposal that
would discourage  banks  from dumping riskier assets to boost
capital levels.  “The balance of risk has shifted to the downside again,”
said Valentijn Van Nieuwenhuijzen, the head of strategy at ING
Investment Management in  The Hague , which manages $163 billion.
“Overall, our stance is quite defensive. It’s still uncertain
what the end game is going to look like” for the euro area, he
told Linzie Janis in a Bloomberg Television interview.  National benchmark indexes rose in all of the 18 western-
European markets. France’s CAC 40 gained 0.8 percent, Germany’s
DAX rose 1 percent and the U.K. FTSE 100 advanced 0.6 percent.  Old Mutual Rallies  Old Mutual jumped 11 percent to 123.7 pence. The third-
biggest insurer in the U.K. said it will sell its Nordic
business, excluding  Finland , for 2.1 billion pounds to Skandia
Liv.  Commerzbank AG rose 6.7 percent to 1.31 euros.  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI)  rallied 5.3 percent to 18.40 euros. A
gauge of  banking shares  on the Stoxx 600 gained 1.3 percent.  TUI jumped 12 percent to 4.55 euros after Cheuvreux
upgraded the shares to “outperform” from “underperform.”
Exane BNP Paribas SA and Natixis SA also raised their
recommendations on the stock.  Bouygues SA climbed 2.3 percent to 23.60 euros after  Les
Echos  reported that the company is “very confident” about 2012
as international construction orders are strong and there is no
sign of a slowdown in France, citing an interview with Chief
Executive Officer Martin Bouygues.  Telefonica SA (TEF)  fell 1 percent to 13.05 euros. Spain’s former
telephone monopoly reduced its 2012 dividend forecast by 14
percent, citing market conditions that have changed
“significantly.”  “Management credibility has been tarnished and Telefonica
remains on an unjustified growth premium,” James Britton, a
telecoms analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a report.  International Personal Finance, a U.K. lender that makes
unsecured loans to low-income households in eastern  Europe ,
dropped 9.2 percent to 165 pence after saying currency movements
will reduce its full-year earnings by as much as 14 percent and
said “the global economy continues to make the outlook for 2012
unusually uncertain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  