-- Dollar, Yen Weaken as Signs of U.S. Growth Damp Safety Bid; Aussie Gains
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2011-12-16T12:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/euro-is-set-for-its-biggest-weekly-drop-in-three-months-amid-debt-crisis.html
The dollar and yen weakened against
most of their major counterparts as evidence the U.S. economy is
gaining momentum reduced demand for safer assets.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars led gains versus the
greenback as rising commodity prices boosted investor appetite
for the South Pacific nations’ assets. The euro pared its
biggest weekly decline against the dollar in three months as
Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  survived a vote on his budget
plan.  India ’s rupee surged from a record low after the central
bank took steps to curb speculation.  “Sentiment overall remains fragile, but at least recent
reports in the U.S. suggest there’s some degree of economic
healing going on,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at
Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in Tokyo. “That helps to
stabilize risk sentiment in the near term, and it’s negative for
haven currencies.”  The dollar declined 0.2 percent to $1.3035 versus the euro
at 7:12 a.m. New York time, trimming this week’s advance to 2.7
percent, still the most since the period ended Sept. 9. The yen
depreciated 0.2 percent to 101.50 per euro after rising
yesterday to 101.05, the strongest level since Oct. 4. The
dollar was little changed at 77.88 yen.  The Stoxx  Europe  600  Index  gained 0.2 percent, and futures
on the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SXXP)  rose 0.4 percent.  The Australian dollar advanced 0.8 percent to $1.0002, and
the New Zealand currency, also known as the kiwi, climbed 0.9
percent to 76.05 U.S. cents.  ‘Factored In’  “The market has already factored in a fairly negative
outcome from Europe and there’s some scope for sentiment to
improve,” said Greg Gibbs, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney. The Australian
currency is likely to “firm up,” he said.  The  Indian rupee  extended its rally from an all-time low
reached yesterday after the  Reserve Bank  of India announced
measures to curb speculation in the foreign-exchange market. The
currency appreciated 1.7 percent to 52.74 per dollar after
touching the all-time low of 54.3050 yesterday.  “The RBI has taken decisive measures to reduce onshore
speculation against the rupee,” said Olivier Desbarres, head of
regional foreign-exchange strategy at Barclays Plc in  Singapore .
“These measures have certainly caught the market’s attention,
and it reduces the chances of a rapid weakening.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, was little changed at 80.154 after touching
80.730, the highest level since January.  Consumer Prices  U.S. consumer prices rose 0.1 percent last month after
falling 0.1 percent in October, according to the median forecast
of 82 economists in a Bloomberg News survey before today’s
report from the Labor Department.  Gross domestic product will expand 2.19 percent in 2012
after growing 1.80 percent this year, according to forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg News.  U.S. initial jobless claims fell by 19,000 to 366,000 last
week, the least since May 2008, the Labor Department said
yesterday. Other reports showed manufacturing in the regions
covered by the Federal Reserve Banks of  New York  and
Philadelphia accelerated in December more than forecast.  The Fed’s policy-setting panel said on Dec. 13 the economy
“has been expanding moderately,” compared with the Nov. 2
assessment that growth “strengthened somewhat.”  The dollar has appreciated 1.8 percent in the past month in
the best performance among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has
fallen 1.8 percent, and the yen has advanced 0.6 percent.  Euro Versus Dollar  Bets that the euro will drop against the dollar fell from
last week in the options market. Traders paid 3.3 percentage
points more for the right to sell the euro against the dollar
than to buy it, down from 3.6 percent on Dec. 9.  “The  U.S. economy  has certainly been pretty stable for
several months,” Gibbs said. Recent demand for the  U.S. dollar 
may have been “excessive,” he said.  The euro was headed for a weekly decline against most of
its major counterparts after European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said there’s no “external savior” for indebted
countries that don’t implement structural reforms.  The ECB is purchasing the bonds of debt-strapped nations
such as Italy and  Spain  after they agreed to implement austerity
measures to improve their finances. Draghi nevertheless
reiterated in a speech in Berlin this week that the ECB’s bond
program is “neither eternal nor infinite.”  Further gains in the euro will be limited, according to
Morgan Stanley.  “We expect the downtrend to resume shortly as concerns
linger, particularly surrounding the implementation risk for the
EU Summit agreement,”  Hans-Guenter Redeker , a strategist in
 London , wrote in a note to clients. “We do not expect bank
repatriation to provide much support for the euro against the
dollar going into the year-end as we believe that much of this
flow may well have been already taken place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  