-- European Inflation Remains at Three-Year High; Payrolls Shrink
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2011-12-15T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/european-inflation-remains-at-three-year-high-payrolls-shrink.html
European inflation  remained at a
three-year high in November and employment declined in the third
quarter as euro-area leaders struggled to contain the worsening
debt crisis.  The  inflation rate  in the 17-nation euro area held at 3
percent, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said today, matching an initial estimate published on Nov. 30. A
separate report showed payrolls contracted 0.1 percent in the
third quarter from the previous three-month period.  The  European Central Bank  cut its  benchmark interest rate 
last week for the second straight month and forecast that
inflation will slow to 2 percent in 2012 and 1.5 percent in
2013. As euro-area leaders try to contain the region’s debt
turmoil, the ECB also cut its forecast for growth next year to
0.3 percent from 1.3 percent.  On the month, euro-area consumer prices rose 0.1 percent,
the statistics office said.  Core inflation , which excludes
volatile costs such as energy, held steady at 1.6 percent for a
second month.  The payrolls report showed that German third-quarter
employment grew 0.2 percent from the previous three months.
French payrolls gained 0.1 percent, while Spanish employment
fell 0.9 percent.  Downgrade Threat  Data published on Nov. 30 showed the euro-area  unemployment
rate  increased to 10.3 percent in October, the highest in more
than 13 years, undermining an economy already hit by the
worsening fiscal crisis.  Euro-area leaders agreed at a summit last week on a
blueprint for a closer fiscal union, seeking to prevent the
crisis that led to bailouts for  Greece , Portugal and Ireland
from engulfing Spain and  Italy . They also agreed to start a 500
billion-euro ($649 billion) rescue fund next year.  The plan was unveiled in the shadow of a Dec. 5 downgrade
threat on 15 euro nations from  Standard & Poor’s . Moody’s
Investors Service said on Dec. 12 it will review the ratings of
all European Union countries in the first quarter because the
summit failed to produce “decisive policy measures” to end the
crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  