-- Manufacturing Output May Shrink From China to Europe: Economy
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2011-12-15T12:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/european-output-contracts-for-fourth-month-as-manufacturing-services-fall.html
Manufacturing may contract this
month from China to the euro region as global demand slows and
 Europe ’s leaders struggle to contain the worsening debt crisis.  Chinese factory output may decline for a second month in
December as Europe’s fiscal woes weigh on exports and home sales
slide, preliminary results from a Markit Economics survey
indicate. In the euro area, manufacturers may face a fifth
straight month of contraction as the region endures its worst
quarter for 2 1/2 years, a separate report showed.  Ripples from Europe’s debt turmoil have dented confidence
among companies and consumers and hit global demand. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said last
month that trade in goods stalled in most major economies in the
third quarter and it cut its growth forecast. The slowdown is
spilling over into unemployment, with Nokia Siemens Networks
announcing last month that it plans to eliminate 17,000 jobs
worldwide.  “The near-term outlook is still bleak” in Europe, said
Stella Wang, an economist at Nomura International Plc in  London .
“With the uncertainty about the sovereign debt crisis and
slowing momentum of the euro area’s main trading partners, both
businesses and consumers look set to continue holding back their
investment and consumption decisions going into 2012.”  U.S. Production  U.S. industrial-output may have cooled in November as
slowdowns in automobile output and mining overshadowed broader
manufacturing strength, economists said before reports today.  Production at factories, mines and utilities increased 0.1
percent after advancing 0.7 percent in October, according to the
median of 82 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Manufacturing
in the New York and Philadelphia regions picked up in December,
a sign the industry is weathering slower global growth, a pair
of regional reports may also show.  Factory floors are staying busy as a government tax
incentive helps sustain business investment and a drop in
inventories last quarter drives new orders from purchasing
managers. At the same time, cooling growth in Europe may limit
shipments from American manufacturers and restrain the industry
that’s been a source of strength for the recovery.  In Europe, the euro fell below $1.30 for the first time
since Jan. 12 yesterday as investors lost confidence that the
region’s leaders would be able to contain the sovereign debt
turmoil and preserve the common currency. The OECD said the
region’s difficulties have undermined global growth.  The euro traded at $1.3012 as of 12:24 p.m. in London, up
0.2 percent since yesterday. It’s fallen 2.8 percent this week.  European Manufacturing  A gauge of euro-region  manufacturing  rose to 46.9 in
December from 46.4 the previous month, according to London-based
Markit Economics. A services index increased to 48.3 from 47.5.
While both numbers were higher than economists forecast, they
remain below the 50 mark indicating contraction.  Markit economist  Chris Williamson  said the reports suggest
the euro-region economy will contract 0.6 percent in the current
quarter. Unicredit Group said that while the economy may shrink,
“fears of a deep recession are overdone.”  “We might be seeing the bottom in business surveys,”
 Marco Valli , chief euro-area economist at Unicredit in Milan,
said in an e-mailed note. “This fits very well with the growth
picture we have in mind; moderate contraction in the fourth
quarter, followed by a gradual recovery starting early next
year.”  ECB Outlook  The  European Central Bank  earlier this month cut its 2012
growth forecast for the 17 countries sharing the common currency
to 0.3 percent from 1.3 percent.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s No. 3 bank, said yesterday
that it expects to report a loss for 2011. The bank plans to cut
2,350 jobs at its investment and consumer-finance units.
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Spain ’s largest telecommunications company, said
yesterday it will cut its dividend for the first time in a
decade, as rising unemployment and a weakening economy undermine
demand in its domestic market.  In  Asia ,  Japan ’s largest manufacturers became more
pessimistic than economists expected and China reported the
first decline in foreign direct investment since 2009 as
Europe’s crisis drags down the global economy.  The Tankan  large manufacturer index  of sentiment fell to
minus 4 in December, the  Bank of Japan  said today in  Tokyo ,
worse than the median estimate for a reading of minus 2 by 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Investment in  China  slid
9.8 percent from a year earlier to $8.76 billion, the Ministry
of Commerce said.  The preliminary reading of 49 for a China purchasing
managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
compares with a final number of 47.7 for November.  “The outlook completely hinges on what happens in
Europe,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , an economist at Itochu Corp.
in Tokyo. “If the debt crisis worsens further and spreads to
the U.S., that could spark a recession there too and that would
mean a recession for Japan as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  