-- Former IndyMac CEO Michael Perry Must Face $600 Million FDIC Loan Lawsuit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2011-12-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/ex-indymac-chief-executive-michael-perry-must-face-fdic-suit-1-.html
Michael Perry, the ex- IndyMac
Bancorp Inc. (IDMCQ)  chief executive officer, must face the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.’s claims that caused more than $600
million in losses on  mortgage loans  that couldn’t be sold.  U.S. District Judge Otis Wright II in Los Angeles denied
Perry’s request to dismiss the lawsuit. The judge disagreed with
Perry’s argument that the so-called business-judgment rule
protects corporate officers as well as directors from lawsuits
over their decisions made on behalf of the corporation.  The “business-judgment rule does not protect officers’
corporate decisions,” the judge said in his Dec. 13 order,
citing  California  legislative history.  The FDIC sued Perry in July, alleging that he acted
negligently when he allowed IndyMac, once the second-largest
U.S. independent mortgage lender, to generate and purchase
$10 billion in risky loans to be sold in the secondary market in
2007. The market at that time had become unstable and illiquid
and IndyMac wasn’t able to sell the loans, which caused the bank
$600 million in losses, the FDIC said.  IndyMac was seized by regulators in July 2008 after a run
by depositors left the Pasadena, California-based company
strapped for cash. The Securities and Exchange Commission, in a
lawsuit filed in February, accused Perry and two other former
IndyMac executives of failing to warn investors of the bank’s
deteriorating financial condition.  D. Jean Veta, a lawyer for Perry, didn’t immediately return
phone and e-mail messages yesterday seeking comment on the
ruling.  The case is FDIC v. Perry, 11-05561, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 