-- Ex-Primary Global Executive Fleishman Seeks Home Detention
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2011-12-15T17:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/ex-primary-global-executive-fleishman-asks-for-12-months-home-detention.html
James Fleishman, the former Primary
Global Research LLC executive convicted of conspiracy as part of
a U.S. crackdown on insider trading of consultants and fund
managers, asked for a sentence of 12 months’ home detention.  Fleishman, 42, of  Santa Clara ,  California , is to be
sentenced Dec. 21 by U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff in
 Manhattan . He asked for detention rather than prison in a court
filing yesterday by his lawyer,  Ethan A. Balogh   “Mr. Fleishman does not present as a rogue employee,
secretly stealing his employer’s property for personal gain at
the expense of his employer, but instead as a man who worked for
essentially what became a rogue enterprise in which a legitimate
business model was structured in a way that misappropriation of
third-party information was likely to occur,” Balogh said in
court papers.  Company management “sought to shield itself from
liability” when employees or consultants passed confidential
information, the attorney wrote.  Fleishman was convicted in September of two conspiracy
charges for a scheme to obtain and pass confidential information
from technology company employees moonlighting as consultants
for  Mountain View , California-based Primary Global, a so-called
expert-networking firm.  Cooperating witnesses said the nonpublic information was
passed to Fleishman’s clients, fund managers who paid Primary
Global, also known as PGR, for consultation calls.  Four Witnesses  At least four cooperating witnesses took the stand during
the 2 1/2-week trial.  Bob Nguyen, a former Primary Global analyst who pleaded
guilty, testified that he knowingly passed confidential company
information to Fleishman from consultants.  Also testifying for the prosecution about passing tips to
fund managers during Primary Global consulting calls were Daniel Devore, a former global-supply manager of  Round Rock , Texas-
based  Dell Inc. (DELL) , and Mark Anthony Longoria, a former Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. manager.  Steven Hwang, an ex-Samsung Electronics Co. employee,
admitted passing shipping data for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad components
months before the tablet debuted.  All except Hwang pleaded guilty.  Balogh argued that his client was an “aider and abettor,”
who continued to “sell the firm’s services nonetheless” after
learning that some consultants like Longoria and Devore were
providing information during consulting sessions.  Earlier this month, Rakoff rejected Fleishman’s request for
a new trial or to reverse his conviction on the ground that
prosecutors failed to establish that any of the acts taken to
further the scheme occurred in New York.  Fleishman faces as long as 20 years in prison on the most
serious count, according to prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 