-- Former French President Chirac Found Guilty of Diverting Paris City Funds
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2011-12-15T18:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/ex-president-chirac-guilty-of-diverting-paris-funds-as-mayor.html
Former French President  Jacques Chirac  was found guilty by a French criminal court of misusing
Paris city funds during his years as mayor.  Chirac, 79, was found guilty of all three charges against
him related to diverting city money to benefit his political
party and reward supporters, the court ruled today. He received
a two-year suspended prison sentence, meaning he won’t be jailed
unless he commits further offenses.  The mayor of Paris from 1977 until 1995, except for a two-
year period when he was prime minister, Chirac is the first
French head of state to stand trial since World War II. The
corruption investigation was delayed until after he stepped down
as president in 2007 by rules shielding sitting leaders from
investigations for anything short of treason.  Chirac “was the initiator and principle author” of the
plan through which Paris funds were used to benefit party
loyalists, Judge  Dominique Pauthe  said today. “His deliberate
actions failed his duties to the detriment of Paris.”  Twenty-eight job contracts were reviewed by the court.
Chirac was found guilty of misusing public funds on 12 of the
posts.  Chirac won’t appeal, even if he “categorically contests
the judgment,” his office said in a statement to Agence France-
Presse. In a statement read by his lawyer  Jean Veil  at the
September trial, Chirac denied “having committed any criminal
or moral wrong.”  Suspended Sentences  Two of Chirac’s nine co-defendants were cleared. The others
were found guilty of either aiding in the scheme or benefiting
from it. They also received suspended sentences, or in one case,
no penalty at all.  Prosecutors said in September that Chirac should be
cleared, arguing all the jobs were legitimate. Under the French
legal system, independent investigating judges decide whether a
case should go to trial, even if prosecutors don’t agree.  The City of Paris dropped its claim after reaching a
settlement in which the former president and the Union for a
 Popular Movement , successor to Chirac’s party, paid 2.2 million
euros ($2.9 million) without admitting any guilt. Parisians and
an anti-corruption activist group, which sought to be considered
victims in the case, had their claims rejected today.  Chirac, who was dubbed “Super Liar” while president,
could have been sentenced to as much as 10 years in prison and a
375,000-euro fine ($487,000).  Chirac’s age and health -- his presence at the trial was
waived for health reasons and he didn’t attend the verdict
reading -- as well as the settlement and years since the crimes
took place, were all mitigating factors in determining his
sentence, Pauthe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 