-- Texas Instruments to Move Stock Listing to Nasdaq From NYSE
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2011-12-15T17:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/texas-instruments-moving-from-nyse-to-nasdaq.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  is
transferring its listing to the Nasdaq Stock Market from the New
York Stock Exchange, becoming the biggest company ever to make
the move.  The second-largest U.S. chipmaker will start trading on
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s venue on Jan. 3, keeping its TXN symbol,
the Dallas-based company said today in a statement. Texas
Instruments, developer of the first commercial silicon
transistor in the 1950s, first listed its stock at the  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  market almost six decades ago, according to the
company’s  website .  Nasdaq also won the listing of  Viacom Inc ., the owner of
MTV Networks and  Paramount Pictures , from NYSE this year. Texas
Instruments and Viacom were valued at a combined $57.5 billion
when their shifts were announced. Technology and media shares
make up a bigger proportion of the  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP) , which
includes Apple Inc., Microsoft Corp. and  Intel Corp ., than the
 NYSE Composite Index (NYA) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The likely motivation is annual cost saves from Nasdaq’s
cheaper listing venue versus NYSE’s,” Jonathan Casteleyn,
analyst at Susquehanna International Group LLP said in an e-mail
today. “It is not abnormal for a company to want to trade on a
venue of companies in a similar sector.”  Nasdaq-100 Index  Technology and media companies account for about 52 percent
and 6.2 percent, respectively, of the Nasdaq index’s value,
compared with 7.1 percent and 1.7 percent for the NYSE gauge,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Texas Instruments, given its
market value, would be about the 17th- biggest (NDX)  stock in the
Nasdaq-100 Index, a measure of the 100 largest non-financial
companies listed by the exchange.  Companies that shifted to NYSE from Nasdaq this year
include  Imax Corp. (IMAX) , the operator of large-screen theaters,
broadband service provider  Level 3 Communications Inc. (LVLT)  and  Joy
Global Inc ., the maker of P&H and Joy mining equipment.  “It’s highly competitive,” Chris Allen, a New York-based
analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , said in phone interview.
“The exchanges obviously compete on price, they also offer
secondary services along with the listing in terms of corporate
communications, market surveillance. So this could be a
combination of things.”  Texas Instruments shares rose 1 percent to $28.33 at 12
p.m. New York time, trimming their loss to 5.3 percent since the
company lowered its fourth-quarter sales forecast on Dec. 8.
Texas Instruments gets most of its revenue from analog chips,
which are key components in everything from missiles to washing
machines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  