-- Mexico Probes TV-Phone Deals as Televisa Awaits Approval for Mobile Deal
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2011-12-15T23:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/mexico-probes-tv-phone-deals-as-televisa-awaits-approval-for-mobile-deal.html
Mexico ’s antitrust agency started an
investigation into agreements between phone carriers and TV
programming providers, a sign that  Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO) ’s bid to
enter the wireless industry is facing more scrutiny.  Deals between fixed-line phone, wireless, Internet,
broadcast and pay-TV providers could represent prohibited
concentrations of market power, the antitrust agency said in
today’s edition of the nation’s official gazette. It didn’t name
any of the companies it would examine in the probe. An official
who can’t be identified under the agency’s policy declined to
provide specifics.  Televisa, the world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster,
is awaiting antitrust approval for a $1.6 billion deal to
acquire 50 percent of  Grupo Iusacell SA (CEL*) , Mexico’s third-biggest
wireless carrier. Televisa aims to add wireless service to its
home-phone, cable-TV and Internet plans to compete against
billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB.  “It’s something the regulators are taking a closer look at
than I would’ve originally expected,” said  Christopher King , an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore. “Clearly they’re
interested in examining what this could mean for the competition
in the future and whether significant conditions need to be
imposed.” He advises holding America Movil shares and doesn’t
have a rating on Televisa.  Iusacell is closely held by billionaire  Ricardo Salinas ,
who also controls TV Azteca SAB, Televisa’s closest competitor
in Mexico’s broadcast television market.  Officials at Iusacell and Televisa who can’t be identified
under their companies’ policies didn’t have immediate comments.  Televisa rose 0.7 percent to 56.77 pesos at the close in
Mexico City. Azteca gained 0.1 percent to 8.44 pesos, and
 America Movil  slid 0.2 percent to 15.46 pesos. All three
companies are based in Mexico City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  