-- Mexican Peso Bonds Advance on U.S. Economic Growth Outlook
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2011-12-15T23:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/mexican-peso-gains-first-day-in-four-on-europe-u-s-employment.html
Mexico  benchmark peso bonds rose for
the first time this week after U.S. unemployment claims fell to
a three-year low, boosting the outlook for economic growth.  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso-denominated bond due
in 2024 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
6.78 percent in Mexico City, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price of the security climbed 0.25 centavo to
127.77 centavos per peso. The peso declined 0.2 percent to
13.9153 per  U.S. dollar , from 13.8923 yesterday.  The number of applications for  unemployment benefits  in the
U.S. unexpectedly dropped last week to the lowest level in three
years, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .
Gauges of manufacturing in the New York and Philadelphia regions
also topped estimates. Mexico sends about 80 percent of its
exports to the U.S.  “A lot of people still are enthused about the data that’s
been coming out of the U.S.,” Alex Silva, who oversees $800
million of assets at Silva Capital Management in  Chicago , said
in a telephone interview. The bonds are “just a levered beta-
play on the U.S. growth story. We’re actually dealing more in
the true fundamentals of a country that’s still exhibiting
growth and it’s linked to one of the parts of the world that’s
still holding in,” he said.  The central bank said it didn’t sell dollars or receive
offers in the three auctions it held today.  Mexico’s currency-exchange commission said Nov. 29 the
central bank will auction $400 million of its reserves daily at
a peso  exchange rate  at least 2 percent weaker than the previous
day’s level to arrest a slide in the currency. The currency has
dropped 11.3 percent this year, the biggest decline among the
region’s major currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  