-- Lebanese Canadian Bank Laundered Money for Hezbollah, U.S. Says in Lawsuit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2011-12-15T21:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/hezbollah-laundered-money-through-used-car-sales-drug-running-u-s-says.html
Lebanese Canadian Bank and two
Lebanese exchange houses helped launder more than $480 million
for the Hezbollah terrorist group in a scheme that involved
buying and selling used cars, the U.S. said in a civil
complaint.  Federal prosecutors filed a lawsuit in  Manhattan  today
claiming the defendants took money from Lebanon to buy used cars
in the U.S. and sell them in West Africa. Money from the car
sales and from drug trafficking was funneled through Hezbollah-
linked money laundering channels back to Lebanon, according to
the complaint.  “The intricate scheme laid out in today’s complaint reveals
the deviously creative ways that terrorist organizations are
funding themselves and moving their money, and it puts into
stark relief the nexus between narcotics trafficking and
terrorism,” U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement
today.  The U.S. Treasury Department in February identified
Lebanese Canadian Bank as a “financial institution of primary
money laundering concern,” according to the statement. As a
result, financial institutions in the U.S. cut their ties to the
bank, making it impossible for it to send money to the U.S.,
prosecutors said.  Hezbollah, based in Lebanon, was designated as a foreign
terrorist  organization  by U.S. President  Bill Clinton  in 1997.
The suit filed today also names as defendants Hassan Ayash
Exchange Co. and Ellissa Holding, both Lebanese exchange firms.  The case is U.S. v. Lebanese Canadian Bank SAL, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 