-- FEC Won’t Require Groups Airing Political Ads to Disclose Donors
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2011-12-15T21:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/fec-won-t-require-groups-airing-political-ads-to-disclose-donors.html
The  Federal Election Commission  said
it won’t consider requiring organizations that air political
advertisements to disclose their donors.  On a 3-3 party-line vote, the FEC decided today not to
proceed on a  request  for such a rule by Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat.  Van Hollen  filed his petition in April, more than a year
after the  U.S. Supreme Court’s  Citizens United decision, which
removed restrictions on political ads funded by corporations and
unions. Senate Republicans twice in 2010 blocked legislation
that would require public disclosure of contributors.  The FEC did agree to begin changing regulations that
conflict with the court decision. Chairwoman Cynthia Bauerly and
fellow Democratic commissioner Steven Walther called the action
“the bare minimum necessary” in a statement. Democrat Ellen Weintraub voted with Bauerly and Walther to consider a
disclosure rule.  The three Republican commissioners -- Vice Chairwoman
Caroline Hunter, Donald McGahn II, and Matthew Petersen -- also
voted in January and June not to move ahead with proposals that
could lead to greater disclosure.  Those commissioners “are working to eviscerate the laws
they are supposed to support and that have been enacted to
protect citizens against corruption,” said  Fred Wertheimer ,
president of Democracy 21, a Washington-based advocacy group
that supports stronger campaign finance laws.  Request to Court  Van Hollen  has also asked  a federal court in  Washington  to
throw out a 2007 FEC regulation that requires groups to disclose
only donors who give money specifically for political ads.  In the 2010 elections, in which Republicans won a House
majority and narrowed the Democrats’ Senate edge, Republican-
leaning outside groups spent $184 million, about $100 million
more than Democratic-leaning organizations, according to the
Campaign Finance Institute, a Washington-based research group.  Organizations that didn’t disclose their donors reported
spending $137 million in 2010, 25 times greater than their
spending during 2006, the previous off-year election.  Of the five Republican-leaning groups that spent the most
money, four kept their donors hidden, led by the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies, which
former Republican White House aide  Karl Rove  helped create.  Crossroads GPS and its affiliated American Crossroads,
which does disclose donors, said they planned to raise more than
$240 million for the 2012 elections. Democrats have countered
with their own political groups, including some that won’t
disclose donors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 