-- Fed Foreign Bank Lifelines May Reach $1 Trillion, Congress Told
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2011-12-15T23:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/fed-lifelines-to-overseas-banks-may-reach-1-trillion-congress-is-told.html
The  Federal Reserve  may lend
$1 trillion to central banks as Europe’s crisis roils markets
and erodes confidence in the region’s lenders, Anthony Sanders,
a George Mason University finance professor, told Congress.  Such a level would exceed the program’s peak of $586
billion reached in December 2008, when the  subprime  mortgage
crisis in the U.S. spurred foreign banks to obtain emergency
dollar funding. Under the so-called swap lines, the Fed lends
dollars to foreign central banks so they can pass on the money
to their local lenders.  The swaps program may “get to the $1 trillion level, or
perhaps even higher,” said Sanders, a former director of
mortgage-bond research at  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  He spoke today
before the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Oversight
and Government Reform’s subcommittee on financial-services
bailouts, led by  Patrick McHenry , a North Carolina Republican.  Loans on the  swaps program  jumped to $54.3 billion as of
Dec. 14 from $2.3 billion a week earlier, Federal Reserve data
show. Draws by the  European Central Bank  surged after the Fed on
Nov. 30 announced it would cut rates on the program. The Federal
Reserve’s overall balance sheet stands at $2.9 trillion.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday told a closed-door
gathering of Republican senators that the Fed won’t provide more
aid to European banks beyond the swap lines and the discount
window -- another Fed program that provides emergency funds to
U.S. banks, including U.S. branches of foreign banks.  Size Estimates  European financial companies led by Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc were borrowing about $538 billion directly from the Fed when
the central bank’s emergency loans to all banks peaked at
$1.2 trillion on December 2008, according to a Bloomberg News
examination of data released by the Fed under last year’s Dodd-
Frank Act and earlier this year under court-upheld Freedom of
Information Act requests.  The Fed hasn’t provided any estimates of how large the
swap lines might get, said  David Skidmore , a Fed spokesman. He
declined to elaborate.  “To get above $600 billion wouldn’t be a stretch,” said
Desmond Lachman, a former International Monetary Fund deputy
director who’s now a resident fellow at the  American Enterprise
Institute , a conservative public-policy center in  Washington .
“You’re talking about a European banking system that is huge in
relation to that of the  United States .”  The Fed has “no formal reporting channel” for the
identities of the banks that get dollar loans from the foreign
central banks, which assume the risk for any losses,  Michelle Smith , a Fed spokeswoman, said in a Dec. 5 e-mail.  Josh Rosner, a banking analyst with New York-based Graham
Fisher & Co., said the Fed’s swap lines may end up helping
 Europe  support banks that might not deserve emergency loans.  “As a result of this commitment of financial support,
we’re now supporting undemocratic approaches implemented largely
by authorities who have demonstrated an ongoing inability to
either recognize the scope and scale of the problems or come to
a consensus on the proper approach,” Rosner said.  The ultimate size of the swap lines is “unknowable at this
point,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  