-- FedEx Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates as Shipments Show Consumer Strength
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2011-12-15T21:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/fedex-orders-27-boeing-freighters-as-second-quarter-earnings-top-estimates.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  posted quarterly profit
that beat analysts’ estimates as U.S. consumers bolstered by a
better labor market increased holiday orders from online
retailers.  Demand in the home delivery and SmartPost programs helped
fuel a 76 percent gain in net income at FedEx, an economic
bellwether because it moves goods ranging from pharmaceuticals
to financial documents. The company also said today it was
buying 27 new Boeing Co. freighters.  “The domestic economy is in better shape than most
forecasters” say, because of  consumer spending , said  David Campbell , a Thompson Davis & Co. analyst in Richmond,  Virginia .
Christmas season retail spending will buoy results this quarter,
which ends Feb. 29, Campbell said in an interview.  The residential delivery gains helped the  Memphis ,
Tennessee-based company weather declining volumes in  Asia  that
damped express division shipments between countries by 3
percent. Chief Executive Officer Fred Smith plans to park some
aircraft flown along overseas routes in the second half and the
company is delaying delivery of some larger Boeing 777 jets.  Today’s results were for the quarter that ended in
November, a month in which U.S. unemployment fell to 8.6
percent, the lowest since March 2009. New claims for jobless
benefits slid last week to the lowest in three years, signaling
that the U.S. labor market is healing, and consumer confidence
rose to the highest in two months, reports today showed.  Improved Consumer Confidence  “ Consumer confidence  remains at very low levels, but we
have seen improvement recently,” Mike Glenn, executive vice
president for market development, said on an earnings call with
analysts and investors. “We’re well positioned to take
advantage of this increasing trend of e-commerce sales.”  FedEx advanced 8 percent to $83.47 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York, the biggest gain since April 2009.  The company projected earnings of $1.25 to $1.45 a share in
the current quarter, in line with the $1.31 average estimate
from 21 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “They’re benefiting from the growth we’re seeing in online
shopping,”  Kevin Sterling , an analyst with BB&T Capital Markets
in Richmond, Virginia, said in a telephone interview. In ground
shipments, “not only are they getting volumes, they’re also
getting pricing.”  Profit for the three months through November rose to $497
million, or $1.57 a share, from $283 million, or 89 cents, a
year earlier, the company said in a statement. That topped the
$1.53 average estimate of 22 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Sales climbed 10 percent to $10.6 billion, in line with
estimates.  Fuel Efficiency  The Boeing 767s ordered today will be about 30 percent more
fuel-efficient than the MD10 jets they’re replacing, some of
which are more than 40 years old, FedEx said. Three of the jets
will be delivered in fiscal 2014 and six a year from 2015
through 2018. The order is valued at $4.7 billion at  catalog
prices , though carriers typically negotiate discounts.  FedEx will delay receipt of 11 Boeing 777s now on order.
Two will be deferred from fiscal 2013, five from 2014 and one a
year from 2015 through 2018, FedEx said. The company is also
exercising two options for 777 jets, which will be shipped at
the end of its delivery schedule.  Boeing worked with FedEx “for months” on the schedule
adjustment, said  Jim Albaugh , head of the commercial airplanes
division.  Boeing Customers  “They did slide some airplanes out, and we were able to
slide other good customers into those positions,” Albaugh said
in an interview in  New York . “In fact, this really solidifies
our skyline in the out years, so this worked well for them and
worked well for us.”  The 777 is Boeing’s largest twin-engine jet, and the
freighter version has a list price of $280.1 million.  FedEx’s deferral is a continuation of efforts during the
quarter to adjust its network, particularly in Asia, “as recent
destocking trends have impacted demand for our FedEx Express
services,” said Chief Financial Officer Alan Graf.  Express shipments between countries in  Europe  climbed from
last year, which Sterling said may be because the company is
taking market share from competitors on the continent.  Performance in the region has been strong, Graf said, and
“we think we’re going to see growth from Europe the rest of the
fiscal year.”  Boeing 777 Postponement  FedEx originally planned to use the 777s on international
markets where it now uses MD11s, sliding the older jets into
domestic spots filled by MD10s, Chief Executive Officer  Fred
Smith  said on the call.  When Boeing continued production of its 767 model, FedEx
decided to use that aircraft to replace MD10s domestically and
continue using the MD11 internationally, he said.  “So our international capacity hasn’t changed at all,”
Smith said. “We’ll simply operate the MD-11s in the
international system a bit longer. And the 777s and the MD-11s
are not that much different in capacity. The big differences is
in efficiency and range in the 777.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at   ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 