-- Finland Needs Substantial Cuts to Balance Budget, Liikanen Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2011-12-15T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/finland-needs-substantial-cuts-to-balance-budget-liikanen-says.html
Finland’s government must make
“substantial” spending cuts and increase taxes to bring
finances onto a sustainable footing, the Bank of Finland said.  “If these steps are not taken in time, we could end up in
a situation where we are forced to rapidly reduce the general
government deficit at a time when economic growth is
weakening,” Governor  Erkki Liikanen  said today in an e-mailed
report. “The deteriorating economic outlook puts Finland’s
public finances in a different light.”  Finland’s government will cut spending by 1.16 billion
euros ($1.5 billion) and raise taxes by 1.1 billion euros in
next year’s budget and plans to discuss further balancing in the
first half next year, according to the government program.  The northernmost euro member is seeking to balance its
budget by 2015. The deficit will shrink to 1.3 percent of gross
domestic product this year and 1.2 percent in 2012, compared
with a shortfall of 2.8 percent last year, Bank of Finland said.  The central bank said today that AAA rated Finland must
improve its central government deficit by 2.5 percentage points,
moving to a surplus, to stop the debt to GDP ratio from growing.
Having  Europe ’s fastest-aging population means measures must be
“even more substantial” to ensure long-term sustainability,
the central bank said.  Finland’s economy will expand slower than previously
estimated, the Helsinki-based central bank said, projecting GDP
growth of 0.4 percent next year, down from 2.6 percent on June
15. Growth will rebound to 1.8 percent in 2013.  “The forecast is based on the assumption that the euro
area debt crisis will not get any worse and the slowdown in
growth in both the euro area and the global economy will be
relatively short-lived,” said Liikanen, who is also a member of
the  European Central Bank  governing council. “This assumption
contains a clear downside risk for the forecast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  