-- TFL Creditors to Proceed With Sale of Company From January
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2011-12-15T12:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/tfl-creditors-to-proceed-with-sale-of-company-from-january.html
TFL Holding GmbH’s creditors plan to
begin seeking bids for the leather-chemicals supplier from early
next year, according to the trustee overseeing the sale.  Creditors of the company and adviser Leonardo & Co. will
begin the auction in January, according to lawyer Andreas
Ziegenhagen.  Efforts to consolidate among European suppliers of leather
chemicals have been hampered by low valuations.  BASF SE (BAS) 
abandoned the sale of its leather and textile unit in March
after offers fell short of the company’s valuation. Competition
from low-cost producers in  Asia  is coinciding with a slowdown in
demand in some markets for leather bags and shoes.  TFL has attracted interest from financial sponsors and
difficulty in raising debt may lead to bids of less than 200
million euros ($260 million) if markets don’t improve, said a
person familiar with the transaction, who declined to be named
because the information isn’t public.  Leonardo already sent out a memo detailing the forthcoming
auction of TFL, which stands for Together For Leather. The
supplier of chemicals for car leather and handbags is being sold
on behalf of creditors seeking debt repayments taken on under
the ownership of private equity firm Odewald & Cie.  Other leather-chemical makers in  Europe  include  Clariant
AG (CLN) ,  Lanxess AG (LXS)  and Stahl, owned by French buyout firm Wendel SA.
Lanxess, which in July started work on a 30 million-euro leather
chemicals plant in Changzhou,  China , is an unlikely buyer now as
it already has had ample opportunity to target TFL, two people
said.  TFL, based in Weil am Rhein, is suffering after Odewald
saddled it with 65 million euros in debt, leading the company to
break covenants in 2008, two people familiar with the matter
said in September. Odewald bought TFL, which has annual sales of
about 240 million euros, from Permira Advisers LLP in 2003 for
an undisclosed price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  