-- Foreclosure Filings Decline in U.S. as Holiday Moratorium Extends Delays
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2011-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/foreclosure-filings-decline-as-holiday-moratorium-extends-delays.html
U.S.  foreclosure filings  fell last
month as delinquent homeowners got a holiday break, RealtyTrac
Inc. reported.  A total of 224,394 properties received notices of default,
auction or repossession, down 14 percent from a year earlier,
the Irvine, California-based data seller said today in a report.
One in 579 U.S. households got a filing, compared with one in
563 in October, a decline partly the result of a holiday
eviction moratorium by mortgage giants  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie
Mac (FMCC) , said RealtyTrac Chief Executive Officer James J. Saccacio.  The U.S. housing market must digest more than 14 million
distressed properties -- 1.5 million homes in the foreclosure
process, 3.5 million with delinquent mortgages and at least 10
million “underwater” properties, whose owners owe more than
the homes are worth -- before the foreclosure crisis will
subside, according to RealtyTrac.  “The python took a break -- the pig is still in there,”
Saccacio said in a telephone interview.  While total filings declined in November, the number of
scheduled foreclosure auctions reached a nine-month high,
indicating that in early 2012 more homes will be seized by banks
or offered as short sales, in which lenders agree to accept less
than the balance of a mortgage, Saccacio said.  The “first quarter typically is a better buying season, so
you’ll see more of this inventory try to come to market,” he
said. “I expect 2012 to look similar to 2011 in volume if
nothing changes with government intervention or regulations.”  State Investigations  Notices fell from November 2010, when banks and loan
servicers began slowing the foreclosure process after complaints
over the way they handled home-seizure documents.  Attorneys
general  from all 50 states launched investigations of
foreclosure actions a year ago and most of them remain in
negotiations with the five largest mortgage servicers, including
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Nevada  led the nation with the highest foreclosure rate for
the 59th straight month even as foreclosure notices fell 43
percent from a year earlier, according to RealtyTrac. The
decline came in the wake of a new state law requiring lenders to
sign and publicly record affidavits of “key” information. One
in 175 Nevada homes received a foreclosure filing in November,
more than triple the U.S. average.  California had the second-highest foreclosure rate, with
one in 211 homes receiving a filing in November. The most
populous state led the nation with 63,689 filings, or 28 percent
of the U.S. total. Notices of trustee sale or foreclosure
auctions, when property owners face a date of losing their
homes, increased 63 percent in  California  from October to
November.  Stockton,  Las Vegas   The state was home to nine of the 10 cities with the
highest foreclosure rates, led by  Stockton , where foreclosure
auctions rose 65 percent from October to November. Las Vegas
ranked No. 6 and was the only city outside California in the top
10, having lost its No. 1 ranking in October, when Nevada’s
tougher foreclosure law took effect.  Arizona had the third-highest foreclosure rate, with one in
every 256 properties receiving a notice in November.  Utah  had
the fourth-highest foreclosure rate, followed by  Georgia .  Florida fell to seventh-highest in November from fourth
place in October, as the number of filings dropped 25 percent.
The state had the second-highest number of foreclosure filings,
with 24,739 properties receiving notices. It was followed by
Michigan, Illinois and Georgia, RealtyTrac said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  