-- France Doesn’t Rule Out Closure of Oldest Nuclear Plant
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2011-12-15T15:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/france-doesn-t-rule-out-closure-of-oldest-nuclear-plant-2-.html
France  hasn’t ruled out the
permanent shutdown of its oldest nuclear plant at Fessenheim
because of safety concerns, Environment Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet said.  “The closure is not excluded, neither is it being
announced at this point,” she said today in an interview on
France Info radio when asked about the future of the facility in
eastern France. “We can’t use an ideological approach to
nuclear safety.”  The opposition Socialists pledged last month to shut
Fessenheim if they win next year’s presidential elections. The
safety of France’s 58 reactors, all operated by Electricite de
France SA in a nation that depends on atomic power for three-
quarters of its energy needs, came to the fore after the
Fukushima nuclear meltdown earlier this year.  France’s nuclear regulator will publish the results of
safety checks at the country’s nuclear plants next month. The
stress tests were ordered by the European Commission in the wake
of the Japanese disaster and are designed to test whether atomic
installations can withstand earthquakes, floods and failures in
cooling and power systems.  Ten Years  In July, the regulator known as the  Autorite de Surete
Nucleaire ruled  that EDF could run the Unit 1 reactor at
Fessenheim, which was commissioned in 1978, for another 10 years
as long as improvements were made. The plant is located near the
border with Germany and  Switzerland .  The watchdog recommended the creation of an alternative
source of cooling water to the Alsace canal and wants EDF to
enlarge the plant’s concrete base, which is thinner than others
in France, Kosciusko-Morizet said.  “I want to wait for the results of the post-Fukushima
audit before drawing conclusions about Fessenheim,” she said.  The president of the parliamentary science committee warned
politicians against interfering in the affairs of the nuclear
watchdog.  “If ever there is pressure, that would not be
acceptable,” French lawmaker Claude Birraux told a press
conference today. The ASN’s budget should be increased, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   Rudy Ruitenberg at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  