-- France Braces for Cut in AAA Debt Rating as Noyer Takes a Swipe at Britain
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2011-12-15T12:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/france-braces-for-cut-in-aaa-debt-rating-as-noyer-takes-a-swipe-at-britain.html
French leaders are girding for the
loss of the nation’s top credit grade, with the central bank
governor taking a swipe at Britain as he called debt-rating
companies “incomprehensible and irrational.”  Standard & Poor’s said last week it may lower France by two
levels in a euro-area downgrade stemming from the failure of the
region’s leaders to arrest a debt crisis that began in Greece in
2009 and now presents the biggest threat to the world economy.  “A downgrade doesn’t strike me as justified based on
economic fundamentals,” Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer 
told Le Telegramme, a newspaper based in Brittany. “Or if it
is, they should start by downgrading the U.K., which has a
bigger deficit, as much debt, more inflation, weaker growth and
where bank lending is collapsing.”  A cut by S&P or Moody’s Investors Service, which said this
week it will review European ratings, may complicate  Europe ’s
efforts to stem the crisis by threatening the rating of the
region’s bailout fund.  The European Financial Stability Facility, which funds
rescue packages for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  partially with
bond sales, owes its AAA rating to guarantees from the six top-
rated euro nations. A downgrade may prompt investors to demand
higher rates on the fund’s debt and force greater action by the
 European Central Bank .  “A French downgrade could come sooner than envisaged,”
said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank Plc
in London. “There could be a domino effect on confidence, not
to mention the sizable impact on the EFSF.”  ‘Not Insurmountable’  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has tried to minimize the
potential impact of a downgrade, calling it “not
insurmountable” in an interview published in Le Monde on Dec.
12, three days after an all-night summit in Brussels that he had
said was the last chance to save the euro.  “If rating companies pull it, we’ll face the situation
coolly and calmly,” Sarkozy told the newspaper. “It would be
an additional difficulty but it’s not insurmountable. What is
important is the credibility of our economic policy and our
strategy of reducing spending.”  Sarkozy, who has sought to protect his government’s
creditworthiness by announcing tax increases and spending cuts,
has attempted to position himself for a 2012 re-election
campaign as the most credible candidate on economic matters.  Presidential Polls  Sarkozy trails his main rival, Socialist Party candidate
 Francois Hollande , by about 14 points in voting intention for
the second round of the election, according to an LH2 poll
published Dec. 11.  Of the six top-ranked euro-region countries,  France  has
been the most vulnerable. The extra yield demanded to lend to
France for 10 years was 120 basis points more than the German
rate today. The gap was 200 basis points on Nov. 17, the widest
since 1990, up from 28 in April. The French 10-year yield was at
3.1 percent, about 72 basis points more than the AAA rated
Finland and 100 points more than the U.K.  It currently costs 237 basis points to ensure French five-
year bonds, more than twice as much as the U.K. and more than
the costs of insuring debt issued by  Indonesia  or the
 Philippines , CMA prices show.  “We have put in place a credible plan for dealing with the
deficit and the credibility of that plan can be seen in what’s
happened to bond yields in this country,” Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman Steve Field told journalists in London in
response to the Noyer remarks.  Budget Rules  Moody’s said on Dec. 12 it will review the ratings of all
European Union countries after a summit on Dec. 8-9 failed to
produce “decisive policy measures” to end the region’s debt
turmoil.  Standard & Poor’s  placed the ratings of 15 euro
nations, including AAA rated  Germany , on review for possible
downgrade on Dec. 5 pending an assessment of the summit.  At the summit, European leaders spelled out tougher budget
rules and agreed to boost rescue funds from their central banks.  “There is more politics than economics” in the arguments
that rating companies develop now, Noyer said. Noyer said he
hasn’t been informed about any decisions yet to be announced.  Euro-area governments have to repay more than 1.1 trillion
euros ($1.43 trillion) of long- and short-term debt in 2012,
with about 519 billion euros of Italian, French and German debt
maturing in the first half alone, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. European banks have about $665 billion of debt coming due
in the first six months, according to Citigroup Inc., based on
Dealogic data.  Vulnerabilities  Noyer’s comments are a case of “sour grapes,” said  Klaus Baader , co-head of euro area economics research at  Societe
Generale  in  London . “One thing that differentiates the euro-
zone countries is that they don’t have national central banks
that can monetize debt.” So whatever the deficit figures,
“markets are well aware that’s not really the point,” he said.  France has the biggest debt burden of the top-rated euro
nations, at 85 percent of gross domestic product. Its financial
institutions also have the largest debt holdings in the five
crisis-hit countries, at $681 billion as of June, according to
data from the Bank for International Settlements in Basel.  French  credit quality  has drawn attention since mid-
October, when Moody’s said its financial strength had weakened,
making its debt measures the weakest among its top-rated peers.  Sarkozy has unveiled two sets of budget cuts since August
to preserve the  credit rating  and try to calm jittery markets.
In November, France unveiled 18.6 billion euros in tax increases
and spending cuts to defend the rating. It pledged to do more if
necessary to reduce the deficit to 4.5 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012 and 3 percent in 2013, from 5.7 percent in 2011.  U.K. Deficit, Debt  U.K. government debt amounts to 83 percent of gross of GDP
and will rise to 86.5 percent next year, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . The U.K. Office for Budget
Responsibility expects the government’s deficit to equal 8.4
percent of output in the year through March and 7.6 percent in
the next fiscal year.  S&P stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating for the
first time on Aug. 5, and subsequently the  bond market  rallied.
S&P cited the nation’s political process and criticized
lawmakers for failing to cut spending or raise revenue enough to
reduce a record budget deficit. The yield on the benchmark U.S.
government bond fell to a record 1.6714 on Sept. 23. They had
closed at 2.558 on Aug. 5.  As with the U.S. downgrade, S&P’s reasoning for European
downgrades cited flaws in the political process. The summit
agreement in December was the fifth attempt to forge a
comprehensive solution to the debt crisis since agreeing to
provide  Greece  with a 110 billion-euro bailout in May 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  