-- French Economy Is in Six-Month Recession as Confidence Slumps, Insee Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2011-12-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/france-is-in-recession-that-will-last-through-march-insee-says.html
The  French economy  will shrink this
quarter and next, suggesting the nation is in a recession as
investment and consumer spending stagnate, national statistics
office Insee said.  The euro area’s second-largest economy will shrink 0.2
percent in the fourth quarter and 0.1 percent in the first
quarter of 2012, before expanding 0.1 percent in the following
three months, Paris-based Insee said yesterday in its quarterly
forecast.  Confidence is slumping as businesses cut back on investment
and slash jobs in the face of  Europe ’s deepening sovereign debt
crisis. That’s driving up unemployment and prompting households
to rein in spending. A shrinking economy may present a challenge
to President  Nicolas Sarkozy  as he prepares for a two-round
election in April and May of next year.  “Corporate demand, which has been driving the recovery
for two years, should end up sagging,” Insee said. “Faced with
a deteriorating labor market and stagnating purchasing power,
households will maintain a high level of savings and consumption
is unlikely to sustain growth.”  Sarkozy’s government has counted on growth of between 0.5
percent and 1 percent in 2012 to meet its budget targets. On the
basis of today’s forecasts, the economy would have to grow 1.3
percent in both the third and fourth quarters of 2012 to
achieve an annual growth rate of 1 percent.  After driving  France ’s recovery since the last recession
ended in early 2009, corporate investment began declining in the
third quarter of this year with a 0.3 percent drop.  Investment by non-financial companies will fall 0.5 percent
and 0.6 percent in the fourth and first quarters, Insee said.
Household spending will gain 0.1 percent in each of the
quarters.  “The impetus from domestic demand seems to have ground to
a halt,” Insee said. With unemployment set to increase to 10
percent by the middle of next year, internal demand will
probably “remain weak” in coming months, it added.  Insee estimates that French inflation will be about 1.4
percent by June, down from 2.3 percent in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  