-- Fujifilm Agrees to Buy SonoSite for $995 Million to Expand in Ultrasounds
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2011-12-15T11:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/fujifilm-agrees-to-buy-sonosite-for-995-million-to-expand-in-ultrasounds.html
Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901)  agreed to
buy SonoSite Inc. for about $995 million, including  debt (SONO)  owed to
note holders, expanding its range of imaging products used in
medicine.  Fujifilm,  Japan ’s only maker of photographic film, will pay
$54 a share in cash for Bothell, Washington-based SonoSite, the
companies said in a statement today. The tender offer, which
opens next month, is 28 percent more than SonoSite’s closing
price of $42.24 in Nasdaq trading yesterday.  The acquisition will speed Tokyo-based Fujifilm’s expansion
into health care as it seeks to diversify away from cameras and
film. SonoSite is the world leader in bedside and point-of-care
ultrasound with a distribution network covering more than 100
countries, the companies said. It specializes in portable
ultrasounds, the global market for which is increasing more than
10 percent a year, Fujifilm President Shigetaka Komori said.  “This transaction significantly accelerates Fujifilm’s
full-scale entry into the fast-growing hand-carried, ultrasound
equipment market,” he said. The global market for portable
ultrasound machines may reach 85 billion yen ($1.1 billion) in
2014 from 50 billion yen in 2009, Fujifilm told reporters at a
briefing in  Tokyo .  SonoSite had net income of $10 million from sales of $275
million last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company has a $115 million convertible bond maturing in July
2014.  “We had been interested in SonoSite for five or six years,
but we approached the company last year,” Koichi Tamai, head of
Fujifilm’s medical system operations, said at the briefing.  The Japanese company aims overtake General Electric Co. as
the dominant supplier of portable ultrasounds machines within
two to three years, he said. SonoSite has a 37 percent share of
the global market now, Fujifilm said.  The announcement was made after markets in Tokyo closed.
Fujifilm fell 2.2 percent to 1,841 yen at the close of Tokyo
trading today.  Fujifilm was advised by Barclays Plc, and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. advised Sonosite, the companies said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  