-- FX Concepts’ John Taylor Says Euro May Decline to Parity With U.S. Dollar
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L i s a   M u r p h y
-- 2011-12-15T22:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/fx-concepts-john-taylor-says-euro-may-decline-to-parity-with-u-s-dollar.html
The euro will sink to parity against
the dollar as the European sovereign-debt crisis shrinks
investor appetite for the 17-nation currency, according to  John Taylor , founder of the world’s largest currency hedge fund.  “It should be a lot lower than it is,” Taylor said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with Lisa Murphy. “It’s a distinct possibility” that the euro could
weaken to trade on a one-to-one basis with its U.S. counterpart
in the next 18 months, he said.  Taylor predicted in January that the euro would fall below
parity with the dollar this year. The shared currency has
dropped 2.7 percent this year as the region’s leaders bailed out
Portugal after providing rescue packages in 2010 for Ireland and
 Greece  and attempted to rein in rising sovereign debt yields.  The euro gained 0.3 percent to $1.3014 at 5 p.m. in  New
York . The currency is trading 8 percent higher against the
dollar than its average value of $1.2042 since inception in
1999.  Taylor, who said he owns more dollars than anything else,
cited European investors repatriating foreign assets as the main
driver of the euro’s relative strength this year. European
portfolio managers brought home 65.9 billion euros ($85.8
billion) in August and 11.6 billion euros in September, higher
than the 12-month average of 629 million euros in inflows,
according to European Central Bank data compiled by Bloomberg.  Capital Flows  Repatriation is occurring as banks rush to increase capital
to meet a European Banking Authority mandate that lenders
increase their Core Tier 1 capital ratios to more than 9 percent
by mid-2012, Taylor said.  European leaders unveiled a blueprint last week for a
closer fiscal accord to save the currency, adding 200 billion
euros to their current bailout fund and tightening rules to curb
future debts. They also agreed to move up the creation of its
permanent bailout fund.  The  European Central Bank  has bought 207.5 billion euros of
sovereign bonds since May 2010 to curb a rise in borrowing
costs.  Yields  on Italian 10-year bonds reached a euro-era record
of 7.48 percent in November as concern increased the nation
wouldn’t be able to pay its debt.  Taylor, who manages about $5.5 billion from New York, said
Norway’s krone and  Sweden ’s krona are the most attractive
European currencies.  The krone “is one of the best currencies there because
they have all the oil and they don’t even belong to the European
Union,” Taylor said. “They’re completely free so they can do
whatever they want and what they want is generally a strong
currency, a stable currency.”  While he also favors the Canadian and Australian dollars,
he said he has a short position, or a bet that the price will
decrease, on the  New Zealand  dollar. Both  Australia  and New
Zealand are at risk if a slowdown in  China ’s economy spurs a
drop in commodity prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  