-- General Maritime Wins Court Approval of New Financing Terms With Oaktree
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2011-12-15T20:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/general-maritime-reaches-agreement-with-creditors-on-75-million-loan.html
General Maritime Corp. (GMR) , the second-
largest U.S. owner of  oil tankers , won approval of financing
agreements with  Oaktree Capital Management  LP after changing
terms to address creditors’ objections.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan  today
approved a $75 million loan from lenders including Nordea Bank
Finland Plc and a $175 million equity investment from Oaktree.
Glenn questioned expense reimbursements and a breakup fee for
Oaktree, a junior secured lender to General Maritime that will
be the lead, or stalking-horse, bidder at an auction to sell the
company.  “This has all the hallmarks of a loan-to-own structure,”
Glenn said. “Even if the committee is satisfied, I’m not
necessarily satisfied.”  General Maritime negotiated the loan and Oaktree’s
investment before filing for bankruptcy last month. Kenneth Eckstein, a lawyer for General Maritime, told Glenn today that
under an agreement with creditors, some loan terms were changed
and the New York-based company now has until Jan. 18 instead of
Jan. 4 to file a reorganization plan.  The official creditors’ committee will get $125,000 to
investigate actions before the bankruptcy, more than the $75,000
previously allotted, and will hire Lowenstein Sandler PC to
handle the probe.  Auction Planned  General Maritime still plans to auction itself to the
highest bidder and still has a baseline bid from Oaktree,
Eckstein said. The breakup fee for Oaktree if a higher bidder
wins was reduced to $7.75 million from $12.5 million.  Some issues connected with the loan still need to be worked
out, such as a provision that gives Oaktree all the equity in
the reorganized company, Eckstein told Glenn. General Maritime
on Nov. 18 won court permission to draw $30 million of the loan.  “We’re still resolving a dispute over equity, and how
unsecured creditors will be treated,” Eckstein said.  The creditors’ committee initially argued against the loan,
saying it would give Oaktree all the equity in a reorganized
company while blocking creditors from suing the Los-Angeles
based investment manager over transactions it made with General
Maritime before the bankruptcy filing.  Supporting Lenders  Under the restructuring support agreement reached before
the bankruptcy filing, all of General Maritime’s debt would be
converted into stock in a newly created company, and lenders
would agree to vote in favor of a reorganization plan under
certain terms. Supporting lenders include parties involved in a
$550 million loan made in May of this year and a $372 million
loan made in May 2010, according to court papers.  General Maritime’s $300 million in 12 percent notes due in
2017 traded at less than 2 cents on the dollar today, a 66
percent decline from 6 cents on Dec. 8, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The notes traded at about 10 cents when the company
filed for bankruptcy on Nov. 17.  General Maritime, which operates in more than 230 ports of
call in over 70 countries, filed for bankruptcy in November. It
listed assets of $1.71 billion and debt of $1.41 billion in a
Chapter 11 petition.  The case is In re General Maritime Corp., 11-15285,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  