-- Global Demand for U.S. Financial Assets Cools
-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2011-12-15T18:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/global-demand-for-u-s-assets-climb-4-8-billion-even-as-china-cuts-back.html
Global demand for U.S. financial
assets cooled in October amid optimism  Europe  would resolve its
debt crisis, expectations that that have since diminished.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$4.8 billion during the month compared with net purchases of
$68.3 billion in September, Treasury Department data showed
today in Washington. Including short-term securities such as
stock swaps, foreigners sold a net $48.8 billion compared with
net buying of $65 billion the previous month.  Demand for  U.S. debt  fell “as economic data improved and
European leaders seemed to be getting a grip on the debt
crisis” in October,  Jay Bryson , global economist for Wells
Fargo Securities, said in a note today. The European rescue fund
was boosted to 1 trillion euros ($1.4 trillion) in October and
investors agreed to a voluntary writedown of 50 percent on Greek
debt.  A worldwide Bloomberg poll conducted Dec. 5-6 showed rising
confidence in U.S. leadership among investors, who have sought
safety in the U.S. from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis even
after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its  credit rating  on Treasury
debt in August.  U.S. government debt  rallied the most since the
end of 2008 during the third quarter after the unprecedented
rating cut.  ‘Dominant Trend’  “Many foreign countries like China continue to run big
trade surpluses with the U.S. and they will park the dollar
proceeds from trade in Treasuries,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief
financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New
York . “Foreign central banks have only sold Treasuries in a
handful of months the last several years, and the dominant trend
is to build foreign-exchange reserves and add to the Treasuries
holdings.”  Investors, primarily foreign central banks, reduced their
holdings of long-term U.S. securities by $7.5 billion and sold
$9.4 billion of Treasuries, Bryson said.  Foreign holdings of
U.S. short-term securities also fell by $41 billion.  Economists had forecast net buying of $62.5 billion of
long-term assets, the median of four estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Their estimates before the report ranged from a net
buying of $32 billion in long-term assets to $75 billion.  The $4.8 billion increase in net buying of long-term
equities, notes and bonds was the lowest rise since June.  Drew Matus , a senior U.S. economist at UBS Securities LLC in
Stamford, Connecticut, said the figure for July was also weak
while August and September were at normal levels.  Possible New Pattern  It “may just be a new pattern or may get revised away,”
he said. A reduction in the  U.S. trade deficit  “suggests these
flows should get smaller as the current account is the inverse
of the capital account.”  Congressional inaction on cutting the  budget deficit  led to
the loss of the country’s last stable outlook from the three
biggest credit-ranking companies.  Fitch Ratings  lowered its
rating to negative on Nov. 29. Fitch said its outlook on the
U.S., which it still assigns its top AAA grade, reflects
“declining confidence that timely fiscal measures necessary to
place U.S. public finances on a sustainable path will be
forthcoming.”  In November, a congressional panel of Republicans and
Democrats, the so-called supercommittee, failed to agree on $1.2
trillion in government budget cuts before the end of the year.  China  Holdings  China remained the biggest foreign holder of U.S.
Treasuries in October after its holdings fell by $14.2 billion
to $1.13 trillion.  Hong Kong , counted separately from China,
increased its holdings by $1.7 billion to $110.7 billion.  Japan, the second-largest holder, increased its holdings in
October by $22.2 billion to $979 billion. The U.K., a major
banking center for Asian investors, reduced its holdings by
$13.2 billion to $408.4 billion.  “It looks like foreigners were aggressive sellers of
corporate bonds and foreign central banks were moderate sellers
of Treasury notes and bonds in October,” said  Guy Lebas , chief
fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia.  “What’s particularly interesting, however, is who was
selling: Switzerland, China, and the U.K.,” he said.
Switzerland “was likely selling U.S. assets as part of their
currency intervention plans.”  Confidence in the U.S. remains intact even with the swings
in financial markets and sentiment.  The U.S. received its highest rating among global investors
in more than two years, according to the Bloomberg Global Poll
this month of 1,097 investors.  In the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, the government reported
the second-highest annual deficit on record, $1.3 trillion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  at 
Or  vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  