-- Graco’s Bid for Paint Equipment Maker Challenged by U.S. FTC
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2011-12-15T21:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/graco-s-bid-for-paint-equipment-maker-challenged-by-u-s-ftc-2-.html
Graco Inc. (GGG) ’s proposed acquisition of
a maker of equipment for applying paints and finishes was
challenged by U.S. regulators, who said the deal would hurt
competition and lead to higher prices.  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission issued an administrative
complaint to block Minneapolis-based Graco’s $650 million bid
for  Illinois Tool Works Inc. (ITW) ’s ITW Finishing, the agency said in
a statement today.  ITW Finishing and Graco, which supplies technology for
managing fluids in industrial and commercial applications,
dominate the industry for equipment used to put finishes on
products ranging from cars to appliances, said Richard Feinstein, director of the FTC’s Bureau of Competition, in a
statement.  “Combining competitors in these markets would be a bad
deal for manufacturers and consumers,” he said.  Graco President and Chief Executive Officer Patrick J. McHale said in a statement he is “disappointed” by the FTC
decision.  “The liquid finishing industry is highly competitive,” he
said. The FTC action, “if successful, will hurt manufacturing
and jobs in this country.”  Illinois Tool will try to address the FTC’s concerns, said
Alison Donnelly, a spokeswoman for the Glenview, Illinois-based
company.  “We will continue to work with the FTC with the goal of
reaching a successful completion of the sale,” she said.  Illinois Tool fell 7 cents to $45.75 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange trading. Graco fell 2.7 percent to $37.93.  Illinois Tool agreed in April to sell the unit, which had
revenue of $305 million last year and 900 employees, according
to a Graco statement in April. Graco said the transaction was
scheduled to close as soon as June, pending regulatory review.
In July, the commission requested more information on the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  