-- Liberty Global Gets Antitrust Approval to Buy Kabel BW
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2011-12-15T13:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/liberty-global-s-4-1-billion-cable-takeover-cleared-by-german-regulators.html
Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  won German
antitrust approval to acquire cable operator Kabel Baden-
Wuerttemberg GmbH, a decade after regulators blocked founder
 John Malone ’s attempt to buy  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s cable assets.  The deal was cleared because Englewood, Colorado-based
Liberty Global made “far-reaching” concessions, including
removing basic encryption of digital free television programs as
well as enabling competitors to bid on contracts with housing
associations, which make up a large part of sales, the Bonn-
based  Federal Cartel Office  said in a statement.  The 3.16 billion-euro ($4.1 billion) acquisition will
expand Liberty Global’s subscriber base in  Germany  to almost
7 million. The market is set to outpace growth in elsewhere in
 Europe  because of lower broadband and digital-TV penetration,
according to research company IHS Screen Digest. The decision
marks the first time German authorities have approved a
combination of any of the country’s larger cable operators.  “This is a stepping stone to full consolidation of the
German market,” Andrew Hogley, an analyst for Espirito Santo
Investment Bank in  London , said in a telephone interview. The
U.S. company is “likely” to want to take over  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG  next, possibly in late 2012 or in 2013,
said Hogley, who has a 53-euro share-price estimate for Kabel
Deutschland.  Stock Rises  Kabel Deutschland jumped as much as 5.3 percent to 42 euros
and was up 2.5 percent at 2:50 p.m. in  Frankfurt . On  Dec. 13 ,
when the likelihood of approval was first reported, the stock
rose 4.4 percent.  The company, which has its headquarters in the Munich
suburb of Unterfoehring, could be worth as much as 55 euros a
share to Liberty Global, based on the additional price paid for
Heidelberg-based Kabel BW, Hogley said.  Liberty Global owns Cologne-based Unitymedia, Germany’s
second-largest cable company, following a 3.5 billion-euro
transaction in November 2009.  Kabel Deutschland  was blocked from
buying three operators in 2004 because of concern it would quash
competition. Malone, who founded Liberty Global’s former parent
Liberty Media Corp., was turned down for the Deutsche Telekom
deal in February 2002.  Kabel Deutschland may now take a second look at Tele
Columbus GmbH and its 2.2 million customers, which UBS said last
week could be worth as much as 600 million euros, or at Leipzig-
based  Primacom , which has about 1 million connected households,
Hogley said. Both operate within Kabel Deutschland’s main
region.  Deutsche Telekom’s Response  In Germany, cable companies cover distinct regions and
don’t compete with each other. Their main rival is  Deutsche
Telekom AG , which offers broadband, telephone and television
services nationwide. Customer demand for Deutsche Telekom’s
broadband services has been slowing as cable operators offered
faster and cheaper Internet links.  Liberty Global’s concessions “are not sufficient,” Bonn-
based Deutsche Telekom said in a statement. “Despite the more
difficult situation, we will continue to compete with the cable
operators in television services.” Deutsche Telekom  shares  fell
as much as 0.7 percent to 9.01 euros.  The remedies will allow Deutsche Telekom to bid for
housing-association contracts in Liberty Global’s region,
 Espirito Santo ’s Hogley said. Liberty Global may let the German
telephone operator win a few of those agreements to make
antitrust authorities more inclined to allow further
consolidation, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  