-- Illinois Republicans Lose Challenge to New Congressional Electoral Map
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2011-12-15T22:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/illinois-republicans-lose-challenge-to-new-congressional-electoral-map.html
Illinois Republicans lost a bid to
undo changes made to the state’s U.S. congressional districts by
the Democratic-dominated state legislature.  A panel of three federal judges in  Chicago  today rejected a
request to invalidate an electoral map the Republican
congressmen said hurt Latino voters as it erased one of the
state’s 19 congressional districts.  While agreeing that the map’s creation was “a blatant
political move to increase the number of Democratic
congressional seats,” the judges said the challengers “failed
to present a workable standard by which to evaluate such
claims.”  The trio of one appeals court judge and two district judges
last month heard two days of testimony and argument from
lawyers, legislators, voters and expert witnesses on whether the
redistricting, made necessary by a drop in the state’s
population, was lawful.  “After presenting extensive evidence, we are pleased with
the court’s thorough decision,” said Maura Possley, a
spokeswoman for  Illinois  Attorney General Lisa Madigan.  The state’s Republican congressional delegation issued a
statement saying it was disappointed with the ruling.  “We are in the process of reviewing the decision and
evaluating our options for future action,” the lawmakers said in
the statement.  District Eliminated  The new map eliminated a Republican-held district and
redrew the boundaries of Democratic U.S. Representative Luis Gutierrez’s territory, which includes neighborhoods on Chicago’s
north and south sides, as well as western suburbs, in a manner
the challengers said unfairly concentrated Latino voting power
while weakening it elsewhere.  Gutierrez’s Fourth Congressional District is already known
as the  “earmuff”  because it consists of two east-west-running
lobes connected by a narrow north-south band tracking a portion
of an interstate highway.  “There can be no dispute that race was the predominant
factor in the drawing of Congressional District Four,” Lori
Lightfoot, an attorney for the challengers, told the judges at
the hearing.  Carl Bergetz, a lawyer for the Illinois State Board of
Elections, disputed that assertion.  ‘No Discriminatory Intent’  “The state Legislature had no discriminatory intent in
drawing this map,” he told the panel.  The elimination of a Republican-held district almost
prompted an intra-party primary between incumbent freshmen Randy Hultgren and Joe Walsh until Walsh said he would seek re-
election in the reconfigured Eighth District rather than
challenge Hultgren in his 14th District.  Hultgren and Walsh are plaintiffs in the case, which was
filed on July 27, as are U.S. representatives  John Shimkus ,  Judy Biggert , Peter Roskam, Robert Dold, Donald Manzullo and Adam Kinzinger.  The case is Committee for a Fair and Balanced Map v.
Illinois State Board of Elections, 11-cv-5065, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  