-- IMF’s Lagarde: Europe Crisis ‘Escalating’
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2011-12-15T17:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/imf-s-lagarde-says-escalating-european-crisis-requires-more-cooperation.html
The European debt crisis is growing
to the point that it won’t be solved by one group of countries,
 Christine Lagarde , the managing director of the  International
Monetary Fund  said today.  Lagarde said that if countries don’t work together, the
world will face a situation similar to the 1930s, before the
world slid into World War II.  “There is no economy in the world, whether low-income
countries, emerging markets, middle-income countries or super-
advanced economies that will be immune to the crisis that we see
not only unfolding, but escalating at a point where everybody
would actually have to focus on what it can do,” Lagarde said.  If the international community doesn’t work together, “the
risk from an economic point of view is that of retraction,
rising protectionism, isolation,” Lagarde said. “This is
exactly the description of what happened in the ‘30s and what
followed is not something we are looking forward to.”  Lagarde said the world economic outlook “is quite gloomy”
with pervasive downside risk, downward revisions, slower growth
than expected, higher deficits than predicted and public
finances in shaky condition. “And that is pretty much true the
world over,” Lagarde said.  The one exception, she said, is emerging markets and the
Asian economies most badly hit during the 1990s economic crisis.
They, too, will have to help manage the current crisis if the
world is to weather the risk, she said. Leadership has to rest
with  Europe , she said.  Crisis Core  “It’s going to have to start from the core of the crisis
at the moment, which is obviously the European countries and in
particular the countries of the eurozone, which are sharing this
monetary union,” Lagarde said.  She described the eurozone, the countries that use the
euro, as a “monetary union which has not been properly been
completed by an economic and fiscal union, which is currently in
the works.”  As Europe’s leaders work to resolve their “monumental”
challenges, the impatience of financial markets is a problem,
she said.  “It would be lovely from a market perspective if it was
not just ‘currently’ but immediately, a signed, sealed,
delivered done-deal overnight,” Lagarde said. “Unfortunately,
those of you who have the privilege of belonging to democracies
know things do not happen in that way, things take time.”  ‘Fiscal Solidarity’  Lagarde said international support would probably be
channeled through the IMF for “organizing a collective
financial responsibility, a fiscal solidarity and that element
of risk-sharing that is expected, pretty much, around the
globe.”  Lagarde spoke at the State Department, where Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  had invited her to address an event to
promote greater involvement of women in public policy.  The leadership skills that are needed to face this crisis
are ones that management consultants such as McKinsey & Co Inc.
have found women possess in abundance, Lagarde said.  “Because it’s a question of courage or actually facing the
issues, not being in denial, accepting the truth, accepting the
reality and then dealing with it,” Lagarde said. “And frankly,
from my previous life either in the private sector, or as
minister of finance, or in my current position, it’s a set of
skills that women excel at.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  