-- India Tightens Rules on Trading in Currency Forwards After Rupees Plunges
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2011-12-15T18:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/india-s-tightens-rules-on-currency-forwards-trading-after-rupees-plunges.html
India ’s central bank curbed trading
in rupee forwards, seeking to temper speculation after Asia’s
worst-performing currency fell to a record low.  Forward contracts once canceled cannot be bought again, the
 Reserve Bank of India  said in a  statement  on its website
yesterday. The new rule applies to domestic as well as foreign
investors and takes effect immediately. Forwards are agreements
to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.  The rupee, which plunged 16.6 percent this year and dropped
to a record low of 54.3050 a dollar yesterday, will open
stronger than 53 today as the measures curb speculation,
according to FirstRand Ltd. and HDFC Bank Ltd. The trading curbs
precede the RBI’s policy review at noon, where Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao is expected to keep borrowing costs unchanged,
according to a Bloomberg News  survey .  “Exporters were booking a forwards contract, canceling it
and then rebooking at a better rate, which was contributing to
the free fall” of the rupee, said J. Moses Harding, an
executive vice president at  IndusInd Bank Ltd. (IIB)  in Mumbai. “The
RBI had to think out of the box and it seems to have taken the
final option of curtailing foreign-exchange operations.”  The central bank also said it will reduce the amount of
open positions dealers can maintain overnight. Onshore forwards
signal the rupee will drop almost 2 percent from the spot rate
in three months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
indicating derivative traders are betting on a decline past
54.55 a dollar.  The move will be positive for the rupee in the “short-
term,” increasing transaction costs and showing the RBI is
looking to curb currency-market speculation, according to
 Standard Chartered  Bank Plc.  ‘Root Causes’  “This, along with some intervention from the RBI, will buy
time for the country to address medium-term issues such as the
current-account deficit and capital outflows,” said Ananth Narayan G., head of South  Asia  currency and bonds trading at
Standard Chartered in Mumbai. Those are the “root causes of the
rupee’s weakness.”  Overseas funds cut  holdings  of Indian shares by $311
million this year after adding $29 billion in 2010, data from
the market regulator, as  Europe ’s debt crisis slows growth in
Asia’s third-largest economy.  The nation’s  current-account  shortfall, which was $14.2
billion in the three months ended June 30, may widen to 3.5
percent of gross domestic product in the year ending March,
Commerce Secretary  Rahul Khullar  said this month.  “Though such measures place strictures on trading, and
therefore are theoretically not ideal, it had to be done as the
rupee’s fall below 54 would have been bad for the economy,”
IndusInd’s Harding said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  