-- India Food Inflation Slows to 4.35%, Lowest Level Since 2008
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2011-12-15T12:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/india-food-inflation-slows-to-4-35-lowest-level-since-2008-1-.html
India ’s food inflation slowed to the
lowest level in almost four years, boosting the central bank’s
scope to pause record interest-rate increases.  An  index  measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products rose 4.35 percent in the week ended Dec. 3 from a year
earlier, the commerce ministry said in a statement in New Delhi
today. The increase is the least since February 2008 and
compares with a 6.6 percent gain the previous week.  Asian policy makers from  China  to  Indonesia  have either cut
borrowing costs or kept them on hold to shield their economies
as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens to trigger a global slump. The
 Reserve Bank of India  may keep its repurchase rate unchanged
tomorrow, according to all 13 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  “The momentum in food prices is clearly downward which we
think will keep headline inflation trending down,”  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Mumbai-based analysts Tushar Poddar and
Vishal Vaibhaw said in a note yesterday.  Goldman expects the  Reserve Bank , which has raised
borrowing costs 13 times since the start of 2010, to keep its
 repurchase rate  at 8.5 percent tomorrow.  The yield on the 8.79 percent government bonds due November
2021 was unchanged at 8.49 percent at the close in Mumbai. The
rupee gained 0.1 percent to 53.64 per dollar. The BSE India
Sensitive Index dropped 0.3 percent.  Onions, Potatoes  Food inflation eased after prices of onions declined 46
percent in the week ended Dec. 3 from a year earlier, today’s
report showed. Potato costs dropped 33.3 percent and wheat slid
4.4 percent.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation index rose 9.11
percent in November from a year earlier, the commerce ministry
said yesterday, the lowest level in a year.  “Domestically the struggle against inflation and
tightening interest rate regime has contributed to reversal of
growth in demand and investment,” Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said at an event in New Delhi today.  Consumer demand has begun to wane as a result of higher
borrowing costs.  Output  at factories, utilities and mines fell 5.1 percent
in October from a year earlier, according to India’s statistics
office. The decline is the first since the 1.8 percent drop in
June 2009.  “The options for fiscal steps as well as monetary measures
are increasingly limited,” Mukherjee said. “In recent months
the government has sought to unlock economic bottlenecks through
various initiatives such as national manufacturing policy,
greater foreign direct investment in retail, direct tax code and
goods and service tax.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net . 