-- India Profit Forecasts Cut Deepest Since ’09 as Sensex Sinks Most in World
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2011-12-16T11:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/india-profit-forecasts-cut-most-since-09-as-sensex-sinking-most-in-world.html
Indian stocks are ending 2011 with
the biggest decline among the world’s largest equity markets,
and analysts say the worst is yet to come.  Earnings  forecasts (SENSEX)  for BSE India Sensitive Index companies
for the year ending in March 2012 have fallen 7.9 percent to
1,160 rupees per share, the biggest drop since the 12 months
ended March 2009, according to about 1,500 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Analysts cut outlooks for  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) ,
the country’s biggest carmaker, and  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , the largest
producer of the alloy, by at least 29 percent, the data show.  While Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said in a Dec. 14
interview with Bloomberg News that he expects economic growth in
India to accelerate to an annual pace of 9 percent, analysts are
slashing their forecasts for companies as seven interest-rate
increases this year drive up financing costs and a 15 percent
plunge in the rupee boosts import prices. Bank of America Corp.,
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets and UTI Asset Management Co. say the
downgrades will extend into the 2013 fiscal year and deepen
declines in the Sensex, which has plunged 24 percent this year,
the most among benchmark measures in the 10 largest markets.  “Till now, the concern was that inflation and  interest
rates  are going to hurt earnings growth,” said Swati Kulkarni,
who helps oversee $12 billion at Mumbai-based UTI Asset, India’s
fifth-largest money-management company. “Now the rupee is
causing the biggest damage to earnings. We may see more earnings
downgrades in the next two to three months.” Kulkarni’s  UTI MNC (UTIUGSC) 
fund has beaten 97 percent of its peers this year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  BRIC Declines  The Sensex may sink to 14,500 in the next six months,
according to a Dec. 5 Bank of America report. The measure
slumped 2.2 percent to 15,491.35 at the 3:30 p.m. close in
Mumbai, the lowest level in 25 months. Still, the gauge’s drop
this year has outpaced the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 3.3
percent loss and, in dollar terms, is more than the declines for
measures in any of the so-called BRIC countries of  Brazil ,
 Russia  and  China .  “I am sure investors are wise enough to distinguish
between short-term aberrations and long-term prospects,” Prime
Minister Singh said in the interview in New Delhi two days ago.
“There are short-term issues sometimes over which we don’t have
any control.”  ‘Decelerating’  With inflation exceeding 9 percent for the past year, the
 Reserve Bank  of India raised its benchmark  interest rate  375
basis points to 8.5 percent in 13 moves since March 2010. Policy
makers today refrained from raising rates for the first time in
eight meetings, matching the expectation of all 14 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey.  “Growth is clearly decelerating,” the central bank said
in a statement. “This reflects the combined impact of several
factors: the uncertain global environment, the cumulative impact
of past monetary policy tightening and domestic policy
uncertainties.” Inflation risks “remain high” and the “rupee
remains under stress.”  Higher borrowing costs have slowed the expansion in India’s
$1.7 trillion economy,  Asia ’s third-largest, to 6.9 percent in
the three months to September, the least in more than two years.
 Industrial production  fell 5.1 percent in October from a year
earlier, the first decline since 2009, according to statistics
office data on Dec. 12.  “A slowdown in economic  growth , a weak rupee and global
factors are the biggest threat to earnings growth,” UTI’s
Kulkarni said. “The question is how much is priced” into stock
markets, she said.  Lower Target  While net income at the Sensex’s 30 companies climbed a
combined 7 percent in the three months through September, the
least in five quarters, 40 percent of the gauge’s companies
including New Delhi-based  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the nation’s
largest mobile-phone operator, and Mumbai-based  Tata Consultancy
Services Ltd. (TCS) , the biggest software services exporter, reported
profit that missed analysts’ estimates, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Bank of America predicts Sensex companies may earn 1,200
rupees per share for the year ending March 2013, 21 percent
lower than the 1,510 rupees estimated in April, according to the
report from Bank of America analysts led by Jyotivardhan Jaipuria, the lender’s Mumbai-based head of India research.  The bank’s latest target is 9.2 percent lower than the
1,322 rupee forecast of analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “For the next six months, we will see most of the
downgrades happening,” Jaipuria said in a Dec. 1 interview.  More Expensive  The slide in the Sensex means the gauge trades at 2.7 times
corporate net worth, near the lowest level since July 2009.
While that’s higher than the MSCI BRIC Index, which trades at
1.4 times, cheaper valuations are luring Franklin Templeton
Investments’  Mark Mobius , who is buying consumer banks that
benefit from increasing wealth in  India  as well as utilities,
because of electricity shortages.  “Valuations are good in India,” Mobius, who oversees $40
billion as Hong Kong-based executive chairman of Franklin
Templeton Investments’ Emerging Markets Group, said in a
telephone interview on Dec. 9. “We can get great opportunities
right now.”  Indian stocks remain 39 percent more expensive than
companies in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, compared with an
average premium of 12 percent since 1996, according to price-
earnings ratios based on trailing profits compiled by MSCI Inc.
and Bloomberg.  Risk Appetite  International investors withdrew $787.1 million from local
shares last month, the most since August, data from the market
regulator show.  Foreign funds  have pulled out $321.5 million
from domestic stocks this year compared with a record inflow of
$29.4 billion in 2010, as  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis
prompted investors to flee from assets perceived as risky. The
European Union is the Asian nation’s biggest trading partner,
according to India’s Commerce Ministry.  “There is a long-term appetite for Indian equities but in
the near term, with the global crisis dominating, investor
appetite for risk is not high,” Nick Cringle, co-chief
investment officer at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s wealth
management division, said in a Nov. 23 interview in Mumbai. The
Sensex trades at 13.7 times estimated profit and equities will
become attractive when valuations fall to 11-to-12 times,
according to Cringle.  Kotak Institutional Equities, the Mumbai-based brokerage
controlled by billionaire Uday Kotak, has pared its earnings
growth forecast for Sensex companies for the year ending in
March to 14.4 percent from 19 percent, Sanjeev Prasad, co-head
of institutional equities at Kotak, said in an interview with
Bloomberg UTV on Nov. 23.  ‘Political Logjam’  CLSA lowered its target for Sensex companies’ earnings per
share for 2013 by 3 percent to 1,269 rupees, analysts led by
Mahesh Nandurkar wrote in a Dec. 8 report. CLSA cut its 12-month
Sensex target to 17,000 from 18,200 citing lower earnings and
“political logjam,” according to the report.  Prime Minister Singh decided on Dec. 7 to shelve plans to
allow overseas investment in some domestic retailers, bowing to
opposition lawmakers and adding to government initiatives that
haven’t been completed, such as the planned sale of stakes in
state-run companies to help narrow the  budget deficit . Singh
expects to push through the reform of the retail industry next
year, he said on Dec. 14.  Policy decisions in India are fraught with “uncertainty
and confusion,”  John Flannery , chief executive officer for
General Electric Co.’s local unit, said in an interview in  New
Delhi  on Dec. 7.  “Any near-term positive newsflow appears unlikely on the
‘reforms’ front,” CLSA’s Nandurkar and his team wrote in their
report. An economic “slowdown is visible,” they said.  Rising Costs  The rupee’s slump is also driving up financing costs and
providing little relief to the  trade deficit , which widened by
$19.6 billion in October, the most in at least 17 years, data
from the government show. The Reserve Bank announced trading
curbs on rupee forwards yesterday, seeking to limit speculation
in the currency. The rupee today surged as much as 2.7 percent
to 52.21 a dollar and traded at 52.78 at 4:34 p.m. in Mumbai.  Tata Steel reported an 89 percent drop in group profit in
the quarter ended Sept. 30. The Mumbai-based company’s costs to
service its foreign currency bonds may rise by 1.5 billion
rupees because of  currency depreciation , Chief Financial Officer
Koushik Chatterjee told reporters on Nov. 10.  New Delhi-based Maruti Suzuki is “selectively” hedging
its foreign-exchange risk as the rupee plunges, Chief Financial
Officer Ajay Seth said in a Nov. 21 interview. Maruti’s imports
are about twice the size of the company’s exports, he said.
Maruti Suzuki and Tata Steel’s shares have slumped more than 30
percent this year.  “A lot of analysts tend to keep the forex loss as a one-
off,” Bank of America’s Jaipuria said. “It would be probably
worse if we took the forex loss into account. Earnings will come
down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  