-- Traffic-Jam Curse May Ease on Indonesia Investment-Outlook Boost: Economy
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2011-12-16T07:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/indonesia-regains-investment-grade-after-14-years-as-fitch-raises-rating.html
Indonesia ’s plan for guidelines on
acquiring land for infrastructure projects and a boost to the
nation’s credit rating augur improved prospects for investment
in the world’s fourth-most populous country.  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy regained investment grade
for its sovereign debt yesterday after 14 years, as  Fitch
Ratings  raised the long-term foreign and local currency rating
to BBB-. The Indonesian parliament approved a bill today that
will empower the government to take over land for development
and ensure adequate compensation for owners.  “Extended access for financing” sought by Indonesian
companies may be forthcoming as the sovereign rating strengthens,
 Helmi Arman , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in Jakarta, said by
phone after Fitch announced the rating change late yesterday.
“There are still other challenges to overcome in terms of the
investment climate. I’m stuck here in a traffic jam for two
hours so that’s one example; it’s infrastructure.”  The land legislation, which had been debated in parliament
since March, tackles a key impediment to President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s target to boost growth to as much as 6.6
percent. Infrastructure bottlenecks, along with corruption and
gaps in worker skills, are among the challenges for Indonesia,
according to Standard Chartered Plc, which says the nation can
become one of the world’s 10 biggest economies by 2020.  Stocks Climb  Indonesia’s currency is set to rise for the first day in
four today, gaining 0.1 percent to 9,081 a dollar as of 2:11 p.m.
in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. Bonds climbed earlier, with the yield on Indonesia’s
8.8 percent Islamic dollar notes due in 2014 dropping the most
since May last year, according to data from Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  The  Jakarta Composite (JCI)  index of stocks added 1.8 percent as
PT Astra International, the nation’s largest automotive retailer
and the biggest stock by market value, rose 4.1 percent. PT
Citra Marga Nusaphala Persada, a toll-road operator, advanced
1.2 percent, set for the first increase in three days.  Elsewhere in Asia today, a report from  Singapore  showed
exports unexpectedly rose in November as pharmaceutical sales
countered weak demand for electronics. Non-oil domestic exports
climbed 1.6 percent from a year earlier, after a revised 16.3
percent slide in October.  India  refrained from raising  interest rates  today for the
first time in eight meetings as inflation cools and the fallout
from  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens growth. The rupee pared
gains and bonds rose after the  Reserve Bank  of India left the
repurchase rate at 8.5 percent, as predicted by all 14 analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey.  India Rates  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said he won’t speculate when the
central bank will start reducing borrowing costs, saying a “rate
cut is an event some way ahead.”  In Europe,  Russia ’s government is scheduled to release
reports on retail sales and the  unemployment rate  in November.
The median estimates in Bloomberg surveys of economists are for
a 0.5 percent fall in retail sales from October and the jobless
rate rising to 6.5 percent from 6.4 percent a month earlier.  Ireland’s government is slated to release a report on
third-quarter gross domestic product,  Spain  is issuing a report
on labor costs from July through September, and a French
indicator is expected to show weaker business confidence this
month. In the U.S., a Labor Department report is expected to
show consumer prices gained 0.1 percent in November from the
previous month, according to the median estimate of 82
economists surveyed.  Yesterday’s Fitch upgrade puts Indonesia on the same level
as India. The outlook on the rating is stable.  Full Circle  The nation lost the investment grade rating in December
1997, and its return is an endorsement of Yudhoyono’s efforts to
rejuvenate the economy, underscoring the progress made since the
1997-98 Asian financial crisis when the country was forced to
seek a bailout from the  International Monetary Fund .  Indonesia, which avoided the recession some neighbors
suffered during the 2009 global slump, has expanded more than 6
percent this year even as Europe’s debt crisis threatens  Asia .
Still, gains under the president’s seven-year rule have been
undermined by corruption scandals and project delays caused by
land disputes, which have hampered efforts to lure investment.  “Indonesia has now come full circle since the Asian
financial crisis,”  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , Singapore-based
director of Asian economics at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a
note today. “The passage of the bill is expected to lead to a
much-needed boost to infrastructure spending by speeding up the
process of acquiring land for the purposes of building roads,
railways and the like.”  Growth Target  Moody’s Investors Service raised the nation’s rating in
January to Ba1. In April,  Standard & Poor’s  increased
Indonesia’s long-term foreign-currency rating one level to BB+
from BB, with a positive outlook. The ratings are one level
below investment grade. Citigroup’s Arman said they will
probably follow Fitch’s move to upgrade Indonesia
“eventually.”  Yudhoyono targets growth of as much as 6.6 percent on
average through the remainder of his term ending in 2014.
Indonesia’s 2011-2025 development plan seeks 4,012 trillion
rupiah ($440 billion) of investment, with about 1,786 trillion
rupiah assigned to items such as highways, harbors and power
plants.  The land legislation passed by lawmakers today will set a
deadline of 74 working days to resolve all legal issues in the
event of objections to any land acquisition for infrastructure
projects. An independent appraiser will decide on compensation
in the form of money or land relocation for people giving up the
property for development.  Toll Roads  During the president’s first five-year term, only 125
kilometers (78 miles) of toll roads were built, compared with
 China ’s 4,719 kilometers of toll roads in 2009 alone. A 1961 law
said that only the president could seize land if owners refuse
to sell. Yudhoyono was elected to a second term in 2009.  “This is a good signal for investors to get involved in
infrastructure projects,” Wisnu Wardana, an economist at PT BNI
Securities in Jakarta, said today. “Combined with Fitch’s
upgrade, it will give new power to the government to boost
projects. We can see significant impact to Indonesia’s economy
starting from 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  