-- U.S. Industrial Production Unexpectedly Falls
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2011-12-15T14:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/industrial-output-in-u-s-unexpectedly-shrinks-first-time-in-seven-months.html
U.S. industrial production
unexpectedly dropped in November for the first time in seven
months, an indication of a pause in manufacturing as 2011 comes
to a close.  Output at factories, mines and utilities declined 0.2
percent after a 0.7 percent gain in October, figures from the
 Federal Reserve  showed today. Economists forecast a 0.1 percent
advance, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. Factory production, which makes up 75 percent of the
total, decreased 0.4 percent, also the first decline since
April.  A slowing economy in  Europe  may limit shipments from
American manufacturers and restrain the industry that’s been a
source of strength for the recovery. While lean inventories
point to sustained production, today’s figures underscore Fed
policy makers’ comments this week that business investment is
beginning to cool.  “Manufacturing still appears to be growing, albeit slightly
less than it was in the third quarter,” said Kevin Cummins, an
economist at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Part
of the weakness reflected a cut in motor vehicles and parts.”  Estimates of the 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from a decrease of 0.5 percent to an increase of 0.5 percent.  Stocks climbed after a report showed jobless claims
declined to a three-year low. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 1 percent to 1,224.07 at 9:51 a.m. in  New York .  The Labor Department said the number of applications for
 unemployment benefits  dropped by 19,000 to 366,000 in the week
ended Dec. 10.  Capacity Utilization  Capacity utilization , which measures the amount of a plant
in use, fell to 77.8 percent from a revised 78 percent in
October that was higher than previously estimated. The reading
compares with the 79.5 percent average over the past 20 years.  Today’s industrial production report showed  factory output 
decreased after increasing 0.5 percent in October. Manufacturing
accounts for about 12 percent of the  U.S. economy .  The output of motor vehicles and parts declined 3.4
percent, erasing the prior month’s entire gain, today’s report
showed. Manufacturing excluding autos and parts dropped 0.2
percent following a 0.3 percent October rise.  Flooding in  Thailand   Production, including auto manufacturing and computer
equipment, may have been hindered by flooding in Thailand that
has killed almost 700 people and swamped the nation’s industrial
facilities.  Intel Corp ., the world’s largest chipmaker, reduced
its fourth-quarter revenue forecast by about $1 billion, saying
a shortage of hard-disk drives is cutting customers’ production
of personal computers.  Mining, which includes oil drilling, increased 0.1 percent.
In October, production at mines surged 2.1 percent.  Utility output climbed 0.2 percent, the first gain in four
months, after a 0.3 percent decrease. The average temperature in
November was 44.3 degrees Fahrenheit (6.8 degrees Celsius) last
month, 1.4 degrees above that month’s average from 1901-2000,
according to the  National Climatic Data Center .  Production of business equipment decreased 0.1 percent
after rising 1.4 percent the prior month, restrained by less
output of motor vehicles for businesses. Production of aircraft
and railroad equipment increased.  ISM Manufacturing  Today’s figures are at odds with the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s national index of manufacturing, which  rose  last
month. The barometer’s measures of production and new orders
climbed at the fastest rate since April.  “It’s been a great year, it goes almost against logic in
terms of what you read in the papers with the economy,” Claude Jordan, president and chief executive officer of Arctic Cat
Inc., which makes all-terrain recreational vehicles, said during
a Dec. 6 investor conference. Jordan said he was “feeling good
about where we stand today, a lot of that’s due to lower dealer
inventories, pent-up demand.”  A regional report today showed manufacturing regained some
momentum this month. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s
general economic index climbed to 9.5, the highest level in
seven months, from 0.6 in November. Readings greater than zero
show companies in the so-called Empire State Index, which covers
New York, northern  New Jersey , and southern Connecticut, are
boosting output.  A separate central bank report today may show manufacturing
across eastern  Pennsylvania , southern New Jersey and  Delaware 
expanded as well. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s
general economic index increased to 5 in December from 3.6 last
month, economists forecast ahead of the 10 a.m. release.  The industry is not without risks. In addition to the
European debt crisis, Fed officials after this week’s policy
meeting said “business fixed investment appears to be
increasing less rapidly.”  The central bank reaffirmed that “the economy has been
expanding moderately,” according to the Federal Open Market
Committee’s statement on Dec. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  