-- U.S. Industrial Production Growth May Have Slowed
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2011-12-15T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/industrial-production-in-u-s-probably-cooled-as-auto-manufacturing-slowed.html
Industrial production  in the U.S.
probably cooled in November as slowdowns in automobile output
and mining overshadowed broader manufacturing strength,
economists said before reports today.  Production at factories, mines and utilities increased 0.1
percent after advancing 0.7 percent in October, according to the
median forecast of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Manufacturing in the  New York  and Philadelphia regions picked up
in December, a sign the industry is weathering slower global
growth, a pair of regional reports may also show.  Factory floors are staying busy as a government tax
incentive helps sustain business investment and a drop in
inventories last quarter drives new orders from purchasing
managers. At the same time, a slowing economy in  Europe  may
limit shipments from American manufacturers and restrain the
industry that’s been a source of strength for the recovery.  “Away from a drop in auto production, manufacturing output
is pretty decent,” said  Brian Jones , a senior U.S. economist at
 Societe Generale  in New York.  The  Federal Reserve ’s production data are due at 9:15 a.m.
in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a drop of 0.5
percent to a 0.5 percent increase.  Vehicle assembly slowed in November relative to the prior
month, Jones said, citing figures from Ward’s Automotive data.
The pace of mining may cool as well after a 2.3 percent jump in
October that was the biggest since January 2010, he said.  Fed Survey  Manufacturing “grew at a steady pace across most of the
country, with all districts other than St. Louis reporting
increases in orders, shipments, or production,” the Fed said in
its Beige Book survey released Nov. 30.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s national index of
manufacturing, which  rose  last month, corroborated the Fed
report. The barometer’s measures of production and new orders
climbed at the fastest rate since April.  “It’s been a great year, it goes almost against logic in
terms of what you read in the papers with the economy,” Claude Jordan, president and chief executive officer of Arctic Cat
Inc., which makes all-terrain recreational vehicles, said during
a Dec. 6 investor conference. Jordan said he was “feeling good
about where we stand today, a lot of that’s due to lower dealer
inventories, pent-up demand.”  Regional Data  Regional reports indicate the strength continued into this
month. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index, due at 8:30 a.m., probably  accelerated  to 3 from 0.6 in
November, according to the median forecast. Readings greater
than zero show companies in the so-called Empire State Index,
which covers New York, northern  New Jersey , and southern
 Connecticut , are boosting output.  Manufacturing across eastern  Pennsylvania , southern New
Jersey and  Delaware  expanded as well. The Federal Reserve Bank
of Philadelphia’s general economic index increased to 5 this
month from 3.6 in November, economists forecast before the 10
a.m. release.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Machinery Index (S15MACH)  has
climbed 21 percent since Oct. 3, when it reached the lowest
level in more than a year. That compares with a 10 percent gain
in the broader  S&P 500 Index  in the same period.  The industry is not without risks. In addition to the
European debt crisis, Fed officials after this week’s policy
meeting said “business fixed investment appears to be
increasing less rapidly.”  ‘Expanding Moderately’  The central bank reaffirmed that “the economy has been
expanding moderately” according to the Federal Open Market
Committee’s statement on Dec. 13.  The policy makers also said “inflation has moderated since
earlier in the year, and longer-term inflation expectations have
remained stable.”  Producer prices rose 0.2 percent in November after falling
0.3 percent the prior month, economists forecast a Labor
Department report will show at 8:30 a.m.  At the same time, a report from the agency may show initial
claims for  unemployment insurance   rose  to 390,000 last week from
381,000 the prior week, which was the lowest since February,
according to the median estimate in the Bloomberg survey.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  