-- Insider Trading, SEC Budget, Corzine Testifies: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2011-12-15T14:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/insider-trading-bill-sec-budget-corzine-testifies-compliance.html
A Senate panel approved a proposal
to place restrictions on insider stock trading by members of
Congress, as lawmakers seek to restore eroding public trust in
 Washington .  The  Senate Homeland Security Committee , on a 7-2 vote,
yesterday approved a measure that would explicitly ban lawmakers
and their aides from using nonpublic information they receive as
part of their legislative and oversight duties for personal
gain. The legislation also would make clear that existing
securities laws prohibiting  insider trading  apply to Congress.  Enacting such legislation, which Congress has considered
before, took on added urgency after the CBS News program “60
Minutes” reported last month that members of Congress bought
stock in companies during debates on legislation that might
affect the businesses. None of the questioned investments was
illegal, the report said.  The Senate measure combines bipartisan proposals. It
directs ethics committees in the House and Senate to issue rules
on insider trading and requires lawmakers to disclose their
stock, commodities futures, bond and other transactions within
30 days.  The bill requires the Government Accountability Office to
study the role of so-called political intelligence firms, which
use their contacts in Washington to provide financial
institutions with market-related information.  In the House, similar legislation is gaining bipartisan
support, growing from nine cosponsors before the CBS report to
more than 230 backers.  Compliance Policy  House’s Emerson Says Lawmakers Agree on SEC Budget for 2012  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s 2012 budget
has been agreed upon by lawmakers negotiating over the federal
spending plan, according to Representative Jo Ann Emerson, the
Missouri Republican who leads the House panel responsible for
the SEC’s outlay.  Emerson, who spoke in Washington yesterday at a U.S.
 Chamber of Commerce  forum, declined to disclose specifics on the
SEC budget, which is to be included in a $1 trillion bill to
fund the government for the rest of the fiscal year. House and
Senate leaders are trying to finish negotiations on that
catchall bill before current federal funding expires Dec. 16.  The agency’s budget is more generous than the spending plan
lawmakers have negotiated for the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, Emerson told reporters at the Chamber of Commerce
event held to discuss its plan for reforming the SEC.  The CFTC’s 2012 budget was increased by $2.6 million to
$205.3 million under an agreement signed into law last month.
SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has asked Congress to approve a $1.4
billion budget for 2012 as it implements new oversight duties
under the Dodd-Frank financial-regulation law.  Both Emerson and Representative Scott Garrett, the  New
Jersey  Republican who leads a House subcommittee that oversees
SEC operations, said the agency shouldn’t be given more money
without demonstrating it can make fundamental changes.  Separately, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
should hold off an overhaul of money-market fund rules until it
assesses whether earlier changes are working, Republican
Commissioner Dan Gallagher said yesterday at the conference.  Considering capital buffers and a floating net-asset value
at this point “would be premature or possibly unnecessary,”
Gallagher said, citing steps Schapiro has said the agency may
take.  “I’m hesitant about any form of so-called capital
requirement, whether it takes the form of a buffer or an actual
capital requirement similar to those imposed on banks,” said
Gallagher, who was installed as an SEC commissioner last month.
“The level of capital that would be required to legitimately
backstop the funds would effectively end the industry.”  Schapiro said last month that the SEC will soon propose
revamping money-market fund rules in pursuit of “structural
reform” in the $2.6 trillion industry.  Regulators are aiming to make the funds safer and more
stable in response to the 2008 collapse of the Reserve Primary
Fund. The SEC could approve rules without backing from
Gallagher, one of two Republicans on the five-member commission.  House Panel Votes for Standards on Mortgage-Backed Securities  A U.S. House subcommittee advanced legislation that would
require regulators to establish standards for mortgage-backed
securities.  The Financial Services Committee’s  Capital Markets  panel
voted 18-15 yesterday for the measure.  The requirement is part of a package of bills from House
Republicans aimed at dismantling  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , the
mortgage-finance companies that have operated under U.S.
conservatorship since they were seized in September 2008. The
government-sponsored enterprises, which own or guarantee almost
half of U.S. home loans, have drawn more than $170 billion from
a Treasury Department lifeline.  The bills must win approval from the full  Financial
Services Committee  before they can be considered by the House.  FSA Official Said to Meet Bankers on Euro Breakup Contingencies  The head of prudential policy at the  U.K. Financial
Services Authority  will meet today with officials from the
British Bankers’ Association in  London , two people familiar with
the matter said.  Paul Sharma will discuss, as part of the meeting with
officials from the lender group, contingency plans for a
financial collapse following the breakup of the Euro currency
union or a large bank failure, said one of the people, who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the meeting isn’t public.  U.K. banks should have contingency plans for “unlikely but
not un-severe scenarios,” including the exit of euro-area
member states,  Andrew Bailey , head of banking supervision at
Britain’s banking watchdog, said last month.  Liam Parker, a spokesman at the FSA, declined to
immediately comment.  The Wall Street Journal reported the planned meeting
earlier today.  Special Section: MF Global  Corzine, Abelow, Berkovitz to Testify Today at CFTC  Jon S. Corzine, former  MF Global Holdings, Ltd.  chairman
and chief executive officer,  Bradley Abelow , the firm’s
president and chief operating officer, and Dan Berkovitz, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission general counsel, are
scheduled to testify at a hearing today of the House Financial
Services subcommittee on oversight and investigations.  The panel is the third congressional committee to vote to
subpoena Corzine, who has said he had no intent to authorize the
misuse of customers’ funds at the company’s broker-dealer unit.  Corzine Knew MF Made Loan From Customer Accounts, Duffy Says  Jon Corzine, the former chief executive officer of  MF
Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) , knew that the company made a loan out of
segregated customer accounts before it went bankrupt,  CME Group
Inc. (CME)  chairman  Terrence Duffy  told the U.S. Senate.  Duffy, whose company is MF Global’s regulator and principal
exchange, faced questions about a shortfall of some $1.2 billion
in missing customer funds. CME and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission staff had been told a discrepancy existed in the
customer funds, which by law are required to be kept separate
from company funds.  On Oct. 31, the day MF Global filed for bankruptcy
protection, “a CME auditor also participated in a phone call
with senior MF Global employees, wherein one employee indicated
that Mr. Corzine knew about the loans that it had made for the
customer -- from the customer segregated accounts,” Duffy said
Dec. 13.  Corzine in earlier testimony said that he couldn’t explain
why money was missing from customer accounts, and that he had
been surprised to find out that money was missing from customer
accounts on the night of Sunday Oct. 30.  For more, click here, and click here.  CFTC Internal Watchdog Prepares for MF Global Oversight Review  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s internal
watchdog will review the agency’s oversight of MF Global
Holdings Ltd’s brokerage after “immediate concerns” about as
much as $1.2 billion in client funds are resolved, said Judith
Ringle, attorney-adviser in the inspector general’s office.  The watchdog’s office is waiting for James W. Giddens, the
trustee overseeing the liquidation of the bankrupt broker, to
determine when the concerns are resolved before beginning the
review, Ringle said yesterday in an interview.  Compliance Action  Ex-UBS Trader Says Bank Had No Unauthorized Trading Controls  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s wealth-management unit in London had no controls
to prevent unauthorized trading in client accounts, according to
a lawyer for a former trading desk head challenging a 1.25
million-pound ($1.93 million) fine.  UBS “was to some extent complicit” in Sachin Karpe’s
unauthorized trades because “senior managers” were copied on
e-mails about some client accounts, Karpe’s lawyer, Michael
Blair, said at a court hearing in London this week. An external
auditor’s review, commissioned by the bank, determined there
were no controls to prevent internal unauthorized transfers or
loans between clients of the bank unit, Blair said.  Blair said that Karpe did not circumvent controls because
there were no rules in place.  The case is one of three challenges by individual UBS
bankers to Financial Services Authority enforcement actions
stemming from the unauthorized trades. Zurich-based UBS in 2009
paid an 8 million pound-fine and agreed to reimburse customers
$42.4 million.  A UBS spokesman said the bank has “acknowledged that there
were weaknesses in certain aspects of Wealth Management U.K.’s
control environment.”  For more, click here.  SEC Revokes Registration of China’s Longtop Financial  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission revoked the
registration of  Longtop Financial Technologies , a Chinese maker
of financial software, saying the company is in default for
failing to respond to an agency order.  The SEC had requested that Longtop give reasons why the
registration of its securities shouldn’t be revoked for failing
to file required financial reports, according to an SEC filing.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Deutsche Bank AG  took Longtop
public in 2007.  Courts  Kluger Pleads Guilty in Law-Firm Insider Trading Scheme  Matthew Kluger  pleaded guilty to stealing corporate merger
tips from law firms to fuel a 17-year insider-trading scheme
that prosecutors said generated $37 million in illegal profits.  Kluger, 50, admitted to securities fraud, conspiracy to
commit securities fraud, conspiracy to commit money laundering,
and obstruction of justice yesterday in federal court in Newark,
New Jersey. He said he stole from four law firms where he worked
as an attorney and agreed to forfeit $415,000 in cash. U.S.
District Judge Katharine Hayden set sentencing for April 9.
Kluger remains free on bail.  Kluger is the third defendant to plead guilty in the case,
joining stock trader Garrett Bauer and middleman Kenneth T.
Robinson in admitting they used nonpublic data to trade ahead of
more than 30 corporate transactions over 17 years. Robinson, who
cooperated with prosecutors, pleaded guilty in April. Bauer
pleaded guilty on Dec. 8.  The case is U.S. v. Bauer, 11-cr-03536, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  Accountant Gets 14 Months in Connecticut Hedge-Fund Case  A Venezuelan accountant was sentenced to 14 months in
prison for his role in trying to hinder a probe into a
Connecticut hedge fund manager accused of conducting a Ponzi
scheme.  Juan Carlos Guillen Zerpa, 44, was sentenced yesterday in
federal court in Bridgeport, Connecticut, for lying to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, according to Tom Carson,
spokesman for U.S. Attorney David Fein in New Haven.  Guillen admitted to aiding Francisco Illarramendi, majority
owner of Michael Kenwood Group LLC, a holding company for an
investment adviser through which Illarramendi managed several
 hedge funds . Illarramendi pleaded guilty to fraud and
obstruction on March 7. Guillen was managing partner of BDO
Guillen Martinez & Asociados, the Venezuelan affiliate of BDO
International Ltd., according to the  Latin American Herald
Tribune .  Carson, the prosecutor’s spokesman, said the investigation
into the case is continuing.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Guillen, 11-cr-76, U.S.
District Court, District of Connecticut (Bridgeport), and the
SEC case is SEC v. Illarramendi, 11-cv-78, U.S. District Court,
District of Connecticut (New Haven).  For more, click here.  Ex-IndyMac Chief Perry Must Face FDIC Lawsuit Over Loan Losses  Michael Perry, the ex- IndyMac Bancorp Inc. (IDMCQ)  chief executive
officer, must face Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. claims over
more than $600 million in losses on mortgage loans that couldn’t
be sold.  U.S. District Judge Otis Wright II in  Los Angeles  denied
Perry’s request to dismiss the lawsuit. The judge disagreed with
Perry’s argument that the so-called business-judgment rule
protects corporate officers as well as directors from lawsuits
over their decisions made on behalf of the corporation. In
support of his decision, Wright cited  California  legislative
history.  The FDIC sued Perry in July, alleging that he acted
negligently when he allowed IndyMac, once the second-largest
U.S. independent mortgage lender, to generate and purchase $10
billion in risky loans to be sold in the secondary market in
2007.  IndyMac was seized by regulators in July 2008, and was
later sued by the Securities and Exchange Commission.  D. Jean Veta, a lawyer for Perry, didn’t immediately return
phone and e-mail messages yesterday seeking comment on the
ruling.  The case is FDIC v. Perry, 11-05561, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  Interviews/Speeches  Cameron Says Looking at Extra Measures Against RBS Directors  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron said the government is
considering what extra measures it can take against directors of
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  after a Financial Services
Authority report this week on the near collapse of the bank
following its purchase of ABN Amro Holding NV in 2007.  Cameron made his comment at his weekly question-and-answer
session in Parliament in London yesterday.  For the video, click here.  Zachary Discusses Opposition to 500-Shareholder Rule  George Zachary, general partner at Charles River Ventures
Inc., talked about his opposition to a rule that requires
closely held companies to disclose financial data when they have
500 or more shareholders.  Zachary, who spoke with Emily Chang on Bloomberg
Television’s “Bloomberg West,” also discussed  Zynga Inc. ’s
initial public offering.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Goldman Sachs Recruits French-Speaking Regulator From FSA  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s U.K. arm hired a French-speaking
markets regulator from Britain’s  Financial Services Authority ,
as rule-setting powers move from London to Paris and Brussels.  The bank hired Martine Doyon, a specialist in European
Union market rules and an international strategist for the
regulator, to head up its EU government-affairs department, an
FSA spokesman said in a telephone interview. She becomes at
least the ninth senior official to leave the regulator since the
government said in 2010 it would abolish the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 