-- Investor Confidence in Duke’s Bid for Progress Slides
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2011-12-15T18:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/investor-confidence-in-duke-s-bid-for-progress-slides-1-.html
Investor confidence in  Duke Energy
Corp.’s (DUK)  $16.1 billion bid for  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN)  waned after
U.S. regulators questioned a plan to mitigate competition
concerns.  Progress shares fell $1.01 below Duke’s offer price at 1:05
p.m. today in  New York  after the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission yesterday rejected the companies’ proposal to sell
some electricity at cost plus 10 percent. The plan didn’t
resolve concerns that the combined company could manipulate
prices in North and South Carolina, the commission said.  The  arbitrage spread  on the all-stock deal widened by 97
cents from 4 cents yesterday. Duke, based in Charlotte, North
Carolina, rose less than 1 percent to $20.88 at 12:42 p.m. in
New York. Progress, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , fell 1.6
percent to $53.56.  Duke had said it expected federal and state regulatory
approvals in time to close the takeover by Jan. 1.  “The time line is shot,” Philip Adams, a Chicago-based
analyst for Gimme Credit LLC, said today in an interview.
“The deal is in regulatory trouble.” Adams rates the debt of
both companies at “underperform” and doesn’t own their stock
nor bonds.  The federal commission wants Duke, Progress and other
utility owners in the U.S. Southeast to sell their power plants
and allow interstate oversight of competitive wholesale power
markets by regional transmission organizations, Adams said.
Southeastern regulators want to keep utilities integrated with
state-regulated power rates based cost, he said.  The commission on Sept. 30 subjected its approval of the
transaction to a market-mitigation plan from the companies. Duke
offered in October to sell some electricity at cost plus 10
percent in a so-called virtual divestiture.  In its order yesterday, the commission said that plan
lacked sufficient oversight.  Duke’s spokesman  Tom Williams  had no comment on the
commission’s decision today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  