-- Iraq Draws U.S. Hotel Operators Banking on Business Travel
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2011-12-15T19:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/iraq-draws-u-s-hotel-operators-banking-on-business-travelers.html
Iraq , after eight years of
occupation by American troops, is luring U.S. hotel operators
and developers betting on growth from business expansion and an
eventual pickup in leisure travel to the war-torn region.  Best Western International Inc. plans two hotels under its
 Premier brand  in Erbil, Iraq’s fourth-largest city and the
capital of Iraqi Kurdistan in the northern part of the country.
 Marriott International Inc.  expects to operate two properties in
the city.  Hilton Worldwide , owned by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , is
planning a 200-room Hilton DoubleTree Suites in Erbil.  The hotel companies are following growth in Iraq by
businesses including  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
as the U.S. prepares to withdraw its remaining troops by the end
of the year. The Kurdistan region, in particular, is attractive
for hospitality projects because of its relative safety and
decades of neglect under  Saddam Hussein ’s regime, said Stephen
Lari, principal at New York-based Claremont Group, which is
spending $32 million to develop Erbil’s Hilton DoubleTree.  “We were drawn to the region due to its stable and
functioning regional government, a desire for American
investment, a safe security environment, strong economic growth
and an ever-more sophisticated and prosperous populace,” Lari
said in an e-mail. It also has “a strong and favorable
investment law, and an enormous pent-up demand for residential
and hospitality development,” he said.  ‘Dangerous’ Area  Demand for lodging in Iraq probably will be limited to
business workers as kidnapping and terrorist violence remain
concerns. The U.S. Department of State warns Americans against
all but essential travel to the country given “the dangerous
security situation,” according to its  website .  “Some regions within Iraq have experienced fewer violent
incidents than others in recent years, in particular the  Iraqi
Kurdistan  region,” the State Department said in a Sept. 13
statement. “However, violence and threats against U.S. citizens
persist and no region should be considered safe from dangerous
conditions.”  A possible lack of fresh water, electricity and
communications systems also can be obstacles to doing business
in the country, said Jan Freitag, senior vice president at  Smith
Travel Research Inc . Against this backdrop, U.S. hoteliers may
benefit from increased demand from workers seeking familiar
brands, he said.  Safe Havens  “Western hotels are often seen as safe havens from the
craziness outside their own four walls,” said Freitag, based in
Hendersonville,  Tennessee . “Reporters, oil workers, diplomats
are willing to pay extra to sleep safely, work safely and -- as
importantly -- eat safe food. If the hotel can deliver, then it
makes sense for them to expand into high-risk areas.”  The State Department has pushed to get more U.S. businesses
into Iraq. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has mobilized her
agency to help companies like  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  PepsiCo  Inc. to
compete there by focusing on building economic links,  Robert
Hormats , the State Department’s under secretary for Economic
Affairs, said in a July interview.  Iraq wants American companies to help build roads, schools
and hospitals, provide equipment and develop power grids, the
country’s prime minister, Nouri al-Maliki, said during a
luncheon in  Washington  on Dec. 13.  Exxon, GE  Exxon, based in Irving,  Texas , signed contracts with the
Kurdistan Regional Government to explore six blocks in Iraq’s
north, Michael Howard, an adviser to the regional authority,
said on Nov. 11. GE is helping to increase electricity
production and distribution in the country, according to a Nov.
21  statement  from the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company. It
last month opened three offices there, including one in Erbil.  Stability in the northern Iraq region has created a
favorable environment for foreign business, according to  Michael O’Hanlon , senior fellow at the Washington-based  Brookings
Institution , which does public policy research and analysis.  “The area is ethnically homogeneous,” O’Hanlon said in an
interview. “There’s no tension within the Kurdish population
and it has had some autonomy. That’s created a more stable
environment as compared to the rest of Iraq to do business in.”  Foreign investment will be limited because of Iraq’s
constrained natural resources, mountainous terrain and shared
border with  Iran , according to O’Hanlon.  Foot in Door  “I don’t think the importance of the area should be
overstated,” O’Hanlon said. “If you start looking at the
magnitude of investments in northern Iraq and future
expectations, most investors don’t look at Kurdistan as a major
oil producer. Being there is more like a foot in the door to the
rest of Iraq.”  Best Western, the biggest closely held hotel chain, expects
to operate a 160-room property in the center of Erbil that will
command rates at an average of $400 a night, Chief Executive
Officer David Kong said in an interview earlier this month. The
Phoenix-based company also is planning an 82-room hotel near the
city’s airport with an average rate of $200 per night. Both
properties are expected to open in late 2013.  “Erbil is least affected by any uncertainty in Iraq and
the Gulf war because it’s located in northern Iraq,” said Kong,
who is seeking other hotel opportunities in the country. “This
area has seen the biggest influx of economic activity, highest
growth and has the fastest-growing real estate markets.”  Marriott three years ago explored opening hotels in the
country but decided against it, said Ed Fuller, president and
managing director of international lodging. It is now planning a
200-room Marriott-branded hotel and a 75-unit property under its
high-end, extended-stay Marriott Executive Apartment brand that
are slated to open in 2014.  No Leisure Travel  The Bethesda, Maryland-based hotelier, which has about 40
hotels across the  Middle East , intends to add another 50 in the
region in the next four years, Fuller said. He expects almost
all of the demand in Iraq to come from business travelers.  “There’s no leisure travel to talk about at this point,”
Fuller said. “It’s like  Saudi Arabia  -- the only leisure travel
there is religious. Everything else is business.”  Hilton also is looking to expand in Iraq beyond Erbil.  “It’s good to be early in an area, particularly in the
Middle East, as the region is one of relative
underdevelopment,” said Ian Carter, president of global
operations and development at the McLean, Virginia-based
company. “We will almost certainly do other projects in Erbil.
We are in negotiations for other projects in the region.”  Limited Financial Risk  None of the three hotel companies are investors in the Iraq
projects, limiting their financial risk. As management
companies, hoteliers are only responsible for operating a
property under one of its brands, without having any costs
associated with the underlying real estate acquisition.
Companies in the franchise system, such as Best Western, provide
access to their distribution network or the use of their brand
name, while independent operators run the hotel.  Best Western teamed with Iraqi developer  Golden Mountains
Co.  for the $20 million airport hotel and the $40 million city
project.  “The bright future of Kurdistan’s economy (oil and gas
exporting) is an important reason for us to take the initiative
for investing in the two properties,” Handren Azzo, chairman at
Golden Mountains, said in an e-mailed statement. The region is
currently lacking any international high-end hotels, he said.  Claremont Group, Hilton’s partner, is also building a
1,600-unit mixed-use gated community, called the Atlantic Villas
& Apartments, near Erbil’s business district and international
airport.  Marriott partnered with local developer  Empire Iraq , which
will invest more than $100 million in the two projects,
according to a statement on its  website .  “We believe we can make it work,” Marriott’s Fuller said.
“But I don’t really have any past comparison of a similar
situation as given here in Iraq. We haven’t gone into an area
before where there had been an active war. We’ll have to see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  