-- Italy Recession to Last Until Late 2012, Confindustria Says
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2011-12-15T13:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/italy-recession-to-last-until-late-2012-confindustria-says-1-.html
The Italian economy will remain in
recession until the second half of next year and expand less
than previously forecast in 2011, Confindustria, the country’s
employers’ lobby, said in a report today.  The euro area is facing a “winter of recession” and  Italy ,
which was hit sooner, will be also hit harder, the report said.  Confindustria forecast gross domestic product will contract
1.6 percent in 2012, compared with a September forecast for an
expansion of 0.2 percent. Confindustria also cut its estimate
for GDP growth this year to 0.5 percent from 0.7 percent.  “If anyone had any doubts, after the numbers from
Confindustria, we can no longer hide the fact -- we are in
recession, even if we didn’t cause it,” Development Minister
 Corrado Passera  said at the presentation of the report in  Rome 
today. “The situation today is worse than we expected,” when
the government came to power a month ago.  Unemployment will reach 9 percent in 2013 and the  budget
deficit  will fall to 0.1 percent of GDP the same year, the
report said, indicating the government would achieve its
balanced-budget goal for that year.  The government led by Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
approved on Dec. 4 a 30 billion-euro ($39 billion) plan aimed at
balancing the budget. The package overhauls the pension system,
reinstates the main property tax, raises gasoline levies. It
also seeks to curtail  tax evasion  and spur economic growth by
opening up some professions and offering tax breaks to companies
hiring new people and women.  Vote Tomorrow  Monti requested a confidence vote in the Chamber of
Deputies, which will vote on the plan tomorrow. After that the
plan will pass to the Senate, which is set to begin debate on
the measures on Dec. 21 with the final vote set for Dec. 23.  The budget plan is a first step in the right direction but
“more has to be done” on the growth side, Confindustria head
 Emma Marcegaglia  said today, adding that Italy can make it.  Monti said today that his government was working on a new
package of growth measures and also planned changes to labor
laws and the welfare system to spur the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Angela Cullen
at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 