-- Liz Taylor’s ‘Cleopatra’ Robe, Wedding Gown Set Fashion Record
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2011-12-15T07:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/liz-taylor-s-cleopatra-robe-wedding-gown-set-auction-record-for-fashion.html
Elizabeth Taylor ’s glittery designer
gowns, rhinestone-adorned tops and feather capes raised $2.6
million at  Christie’s International  in New York yesterday, a
record for a fashion auction.  The haute-couture evening sale from the estate of the
actress, who died this year, lasted more than three hours as
telephone and online bidders from  China  to  Minnesota  fought for
a piece of the Hollywood icon’s famous wardrobe. All 67 lots
sold, some beating their high estimates by more than 60 times.  “To own a piece worn by Elizabeth Taylor, the last of the
glamorous, great movie stars, is priceless,” said Fern Mallis,
fashion industry consultant, who attended the sale. “There are
people who buy it as collectors. Vintage clothing is like buying
art these days, it will only increase in value.”  The fashion sale followed a record auction of the Hollywood
star’s jewels that tallied $137.2 million over two days,
including a 50.6-carat pearl given to Taylor by her husband
 Richard Burton , that sold for $11.8 million on Dec. 13.  The top lot in yesterday’s evening sale was a signed 1964
Andy Warhol lithograph depicting Taylor on a red background with
green eye-shadow and red lipstick, inscribed “To Elizabeth, with
much love.” Estimated at $30,000 to $50,000, it surged to
$662,500.  The priciest fashion lot was a Christian Dior gown of
silver-encrusted brocade with a matching purse. They fetched
$362,500, compared with a $6,000 high estimate. Taylor wore the
ensemble to the annual ball in  France  given by Guy de Rothschild
and his wife.  ‘Crazy’ Sale  “It’s crazy,” said Linda Yellen, who was a producer of
“Sweet Bird of Youth,” a 1989 melodrama in which the actress
starred. “It just shows you how much wealth there is to have
some piece of the magic that she represented.”  Michael Steinhardt , an art collector and former hedge-fund
manager, walked into the salesroom mid-way through the evening
with his wife Judy. Sitting in the front row, he bid through a
representative for Taylor’s black velvet “Scorpio” cape by
Tiziani that she wore to Princess Grace of  Monaco ’s 40th
“Scorpio” ball on Nov. 15, 1969. It ended up going to an
Internet bidder for $60,000, more than 20 times the high presale
estimate.  Steinhardt, chairman of Wisdomtree Investments Inc., had
more luck with a pair of cascading rock crystal and gold ear
pendants by Gucci. The room erupted with applause when his
winning bid of $60,000 ($74,500 with commission) brought down
the auctioneer’s gavel. The result exceeded the piece’s low
estimate by 30 times.  Botswana Wedding Dress  “He is really the best husband in the world,” Judy
Steinhardt said after the sale. “There’s never a dull moment.”  Taylor (1932-2011) was married eight times, including twice
to her “Cleopatra” co-star Burton. The flowing dress by Gina
Fratini she wore at her second wedding to Burton in Botswana in
1975 sold for $62,500.  Earlier in the day, the gold and diamond rings given to
Taylor by Burton upon their marriages in 1964 and 1975 sold for
$1.02 million, against a high estimate of $8,000.  An embroidered saffron-yellow chiffon robe made for her
role as Cleopatra by costume designer Irene Sharaff brought in
$62,500, while a Versace beaded bolero jacket, embroidered with
rhinestone portraits of Taylor in her famous roles, including
Cleopatra, fetched $128,500. The actress wore it to the
“Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert for AIDS Awareness” in April
1992.  “What instantly comes to mind is how incredible and brave
she was to take a stand on AIDS when no one was acknowledging
it,” said Mallis. “She was there from the very beginning and
helped raise millions and millions of dollars for it.”  A portion of profits generated by admissions, events and
select publications related to the sales will be donated to the
 Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation , Christie’s said.  Prices include buyers’ commission, while estimates don’t.  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 