-- Jefferson County Bankruptcy Case May Turn on Meaning of the Word ‘Bond’
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2011-12-15T20:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/jefferson-county-bankruptcy-case-may-turn-on-meaning-of-the-word-bond-.html
The fate of the biggest municipal
bankruptcy in the U.S. may depend on how the  Alabama  Supreme
Court defines the word “bond.”  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett in Birmingham said
he may ask the state’s highest court for advice on a state law
that county creditors claim bans Alabama counties from entering
bankruptcy unless they have issued “refunding or funding
bonds.”  Bennett ended a hearing today without deciding whether
Alabama’s Jefferson County can stay in bankruptcy.  Creditors including  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  objected to the November filing and want
Bennett to dismiss the Chapter 9 petition because Jefferson
County doesn’t have any debt that is officially labeled as a
bond; its bankruptcy was caused mainly by more than $3 billion
in sewer warrants. One Alabama town, Prichard, had its
bankruptcy petition thrown out because its debt didn’t include
funding bonds, according to court papers. That case is on appeal
to the Alabama Supreme Court.  Bennett said it was his “inclination” to seek guidance
from the Alabama Supreme Court under a process. He said he would
not make a decision before Christmas.  Distinction, if Any  “If the creditors are right, the outcome will turn on the
distinction, if any, between bonds and warrants,” Dale Ginter,
a lawyer who represented retired city workers in Vallejo,
 California ’s bankruptcy, said in an e-mail. “Financial
instruments are occasionally given different names -- even if
the economic impact is the same.”  Jefferson County contends that limiting the bankruptcy
option in Alabama to municipalities with bonds is “absurd.”  “Were the objectors’ argument the law, a county struggling
to service $3 billion in bond debt would be authorized to
declare bankruptcy, but a county struggling to pay the same $3
billion in warrant obligations would not,” the county argued in
court papers filed Dec. 13.  Bennett asked both sides to submit proposed questions for
the Alabama Supreme Court on the question about whether bond
debt is required before a municipality can file for bankruptcy
in the state.  The hearing opened this morning with county attorney
Jeffrey Sewell saying that the county has spent about $10
million on legal related to the sewer debt since 2008.  Explicit Law  Bondholders and other creditors claim the state law
authorizing bankruptcy is explicit and should be applied to
Jefferson County the same way it was applied to Prichard.  Bondholders have asked Bennett to dismiss the bankruptcy,
which gives the county the right to stop paying some bills
temporarily while it reorganizes its finances. Under Chapter 9
of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , the county may seek court approval
for a plan to reduce what it owes creditors.  Bennett scheduled a two-day hearing starting today to
decide whether the county meets legal tests laid out in Chapter
9. Those tests include whether Jefferson County is insolvent,
whether it negotiated with creditors before seeking bankruptcy
and whether the filing was authorized by state law.  The dispute over the definition of the word ‘bond’ is part
of the state law test and was the focus of court filings leading
up to today’s hearing. Both sides agree that the Alabama Supreme
Court may need to answer the question of whether a public debt
must be labeled as a bond before a municipality qualifies for
bankruptcy.  Agreement Failed  Jefferson County filed last month after county, state
officials, the receiver and bondholders failed to implement a
tentative agreement that would have required the sewer debt to
be cut by about $1 billion.  Jefferson County was the 13th entity to file a Chapter 9
bankruptcy this year. Three other filings were by
municipalities: Boise County,  Idaho ;  Central Falls ,  Rhode
Island ; and Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania .  The rest were special-purpose districts and public-benefit
corporations. A bankruptcy judge dismissed Harrisburg’s case,
saying it wasn’t properly authorized under state law.  Jefferson County’s bankruptcy is opposed by BNY Mellon, the
trustee for the sewer debt, and creditors JPMorgan, which owns
more than $1 billion of the sewer warrants, Bank of America
Corp. and Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. A group of taxpayers
who are suing Jefferson County also seeks to dismiss the
bankruptcy.  Chapter 9  “In light of the county’s lack of funding or refunding
bonds and the resulting failure of specific authorization to
file its Chapter 9 petition, the county’s Chapter 9 petition
must be dismissed,” BNY Mellon said in a court filing.  The county’s sewer system doesn’t collect enough money pay
obligations on more than $3 billion in related debt. Since the
Nov. 9 bankruptcy filing, the county has battled bondholders and
the sewer system’s receiver for control of the system and its
finances. Bennett hasn’t ruled on what limits, if any, the
bankruptcy imposes on the receiver, John S. Young Jr.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  