-- Jobless Claims in U.S. Drop to Three-Year Low
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-12-15T18:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/jobless-claims-in-u-s-unexpectedly-decline-to-three-year-low-of-366-000.html
The fewest workers in three years
filed claims for U.S. jobless benefits last week, indicating the
world’s largest economy is strengthening heading into 2012.  The number of  applications  for unemployment payments
dropped by 19,000 to 366,000 in the week ended Dec. 10, less
than the lowest forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News and the least since May 2008, according to Labor Department
figures issued today in Washington. Other reports showed
manufacturing accelerated this month after pausing in November.  “The  U.S. economy , unlike the rest of the world, is
gathering momentum as we head toward year-end,” said  Eric Green , chief market economist at TD Securities Inc. in New York.
“The labor market is improving sharply,” he said, and “we
look for gains in industrial production.”  A reduction in firings may pave the way for an increase in
employment that will help spur  consumer spending , which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy. Lean inventories and
growing demand may probably spark gains in production that will
keep factories at the forefront of the expansion.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose, snapping a three-day
drop, on the improving economic outlook. The gauge climbed 0.6
percent to 1,218.71 at 1:03 p.m. in  New York .  Manufacturing may contract this month from  China  to the
euro region as global demand slows and  Europe ’s leaders struggle
to contain the worsening debt crisis, reports today showed.  Global Manufacturing  Chinese factory output may decline for a second month in
December as Europe’s fiscal woes weigh on exports and home sales
slide, preliminary results from a Markit Economics survey
indicate. In the euro area, manufacturers may face a fifth
straight month of contraction as the region endures its worst
quarter for 2 1/2 years, a separate report showed.  Manufacturing in the regions covered by the Federal Reserve
Banks of New York and Philadelphia accelerated more than
forecast in December as orders and employment grew.  The so-called Empire State Index, covering New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern Connecticut, climbed to the
highest reading in seven months. The Philadelphia Fed’s gauge
for eastern  Pennsylvania , southern New Jersey and  Delaware , rose
to an eight-month high.  The improvement helped ease concern factory demand was
cooling after another report from the Fed in Washington showed
industrial production unexpectedly dropped in November for the
first time in seven months. Output at factories, mines and
utilities declined 0.2 percent after a 0.7 percent gain in
October. Economists forecast a 0.1 percent advance, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘More Timely’  “The weakness in November followed strength in October, so
I wouldn’t necessary extrapolate one month,” said Kevin Cummins, an economist at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “Given this month’s jump in the Empire State
Index, it does suggest that there was factory output growth in
December, which is a little more timely.”  The decrease in production was led by a drop in auto output
even as sales increased last month to the highest level since
August 2009.  Reports indicate that the floods in  Thailand  may have
caused shortages in some auto parts, said Cummings, “so you
might be getting effects from that as well, which shows that it
may be just a temporary event in November.”  “November was one of the strongest sales months of the
year,’ Erich Merkle, sales analyst for Ford Motor Co., said on a
Dec. 1 teleconference. “Sales appeared to be carrying strong
momentum as we finish the year and head to 2012, a very
encouraging sign.”  Producer Prices  Another Labor Department report today showed the producer
price index increased 0.3 percent last month after declining 0.3
percent in October.  Jobless claims were projected to increase to 390,000 from
381,000 initially reported for the prior week. Estimates ranged
from 375,000 to 412,000. The Labor Department revised the
previous week’s figure up to 385,000.  “We’re seeing improvement in labor-market conditions,”
said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for North America at BNP
Paribas in New York. “It’s good to see claims moving this much
below 400,000.”  The financial industry is among those most affected by the
European debt crisis.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the investment bank whose
shares have declined 45 percent this year, said today it plans
to cut about 1,600 jobs amid a drop in revenue from investment
banking and trading. The figure amounts to about 2.6 percent of
the 62,648 employees New York-based Morgan Stanley had at the
end of September.  Firing, Hiring  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  A hiring summary index, developed by economists at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., has climbed to the highest level since mid
2008. “The improvement is an encouraging sign for employment
growth, at least over the next several months,” according to a
report today by  Andrew Tilton , a New York-based economist at the
bank.  The gauge tracks forward-looking measures like job
openings, planned hiring by small businesses and Manpower Inc.’s
quarterly survey.  Slow progress in the job market remains a concern for the
Fed, which this week left unchanged its statement that economic
conditions are likely to warrant “exceptionally low”  interest
rates  “at least through mid-2013.”  “While indicators point to some improvement in overall
labor market conditions, the  unemployment rate  remains
elevated,” the central bank said in a statement after its
meeting on Dec 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  