-- Judge Orders Hearing Into U.K. Solar Subsidy Cuts Next Week
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2011-12-15T17:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/judge-orders-hearing-into-u-k-solar-subsidy-cuts-next-week.html
A U.K. judge ordered a hearing next
week on a High Court challenge to government cuts to solar
subsidy rates, installers Solarcentury and HomeSun said.  The companies are challenging a government decision to
lower rates by more than 50 percent before the end of a
consultation period, according to statements today. The hearing
is due to take place on Dec. 20.  “It is only the first step of the legal challenge”, John
Faulks, Solarcentury’s company secretary, said in a statement.
“The Court agrees that we have a case to argue and has given us
permission to challenge DECC,” he said, referring to the
Department of Energy and Climate Change.  The department started a consultation on feed-in tariffs,
or guaranteed premiums for solar energy, on Oct. 31, in an
attempt to reduce rates to reflect lower costs for panels and
curtail a boom in installations. It decided that the cuts would
apply to all projects completed after Dec 12., about fourth
months earlier than scheduled.  “A cut of over 50 percent that occurred in just six weeks
and before the end of a consultation period is cynical and
irrational,” Faulks said.  Solarcentury and HomeSun were joined by Friends of the
Earth, an environmental group, in the legal challenge. The
opposition  Labour Party  has said the cuts could put 25,000 jobs
at risk.  U.K. Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  said the reductions are
needed because the boom in installations means every week of
delay leads to more than 25 million pounds a year in additional
subsidies. The surge is threatening the 867 million-pound ($1.4
billion) budget allocated for feed-in tariffs through 2015, he
said.  “To wait any longer will put the entire scheme at risk,”
Huhne told ministers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  