-- Jung’s Outside Successor May Shake ‘Entrenched’ Avon Culture
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2011-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/jung-s-outside-successor-may-shake-entrenched-avon-culture.html
Replacing  Avon Products Inc.’s (AVP)  Chief
Executive Officer Andrea Jung with an outsider may inject fresh
energy into a company where the leader and much of her board
have served for more than a decade.  The cosmetics seller’s management needs someone “to shake
them out of their entrenched ways of doing things,” said  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford Bernstein & Co. in  New York  who
has covered Avon since 2007.  Avon, which generates more than 80 percent of revenue
outside the U.S., said Dec. 13 that Jung will step aside as CEO
next year and remain chairman while it contends with slowing
sales and profit growth. The new CEO should be an operations
person with strong  emerging-markets  knowledge, Dibadj and other
analysts said in interviews. The trick will be to find someone
who can allow Jung to continue her role as an embodiment of the
125-year-old brand, they said.  The new executive will enter an environment quite unlike
the one Jung encountered when she became CEO in 1999. Because
she had a marketing background, the New York-based company
surrounded her with executives with operating experience, said
Connie Maneaty, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in New York.  In recent years, Jung ran the company without benefit of
executives like Liz Smith, who left two years ago after leading
the North American operations and global brands as president.  While Jung, 53, had a laudable “vision of connecting women
to economic independence through direct selling,” her execution
was lacking, Maneaty said in an interview.  Succession Planning  Smith, who left to head OSI Restaurant Partners LLC, was
considered a potential heir apparent at a company that had given
succession planning short shrift, Dibadj says. With no obvious
internal candidates, Avon must hire an outsider.  The person need not be knowledgeable about Avon’s direct-
selling model, Dibadj said.  “It could be someone from a completely different
background,” he said  Jung’s successor also will inherit an internal probe into
potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which
led to the firing of four executives over bribes to officials in
 China . The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is also
looking into the cosmetics company’s actions, Avon said in an
Oct. 27 regulatory filing.  It’s not as though Avon’s direct-selling model is broken,
said Victoria Collin, an analyst at Atlantic Equities in  London .
While the strategy is increasingly irrelevant in the U.S., where
sales growth has lagged, it remains effective in such emerging
markets as China and  Brazil , she said.  Under Jung, Avon has boosted sales overseas by focusing
more on small towns than big cities where rivals like  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG)  and Estee Lauder Cos. have concentrated.  Lower Prices  Between 2005 and 2010, Avon ranked second after  Colgate-
Palmolive Co. (CL)  in sales growth measured in local currencies and
sells quality products at lower prices than comparable goods
from  L’Oreal SA (OR)  and  Revlon Inc. (REV) , Maneaty said.  “If you live in the provinces in China, you are more
likely to encounter an Avon product than an Estee Lauder
product,” Collin said.  Avon should cut spending at home -- or even exit the U.S.
altogether -- and put more resources into emerging nations,
Dibadj says. The company needs to attract a wealthier cohort of
middle-class customers in China and Brazil, and doing so will
require putting money and effort into creating a “cohesive
global brand,” he said.  “Invest less where you are mature, invest more where
you’re not mature,” he said. Avon hasn’t “been effective on
where they’ve been spending money.”  Various restructurings, including a four-year plan
announced in 2009 to eliminate 1,200 jobs and close plants in
Ohio and  Germany , have yet to pay off, Collin said.  Power Vacuum  While a power vacuum in the executive suite has prompted
potential acquirers to take a run at companies in the past, Avon
may be too big for a private-equity takeover, Dibadj said. The
company also would be hard to value because there’s “no clarity
on what the free  cash flow  is,” he said.  Strategic suitors also are unlikely because the direct-
selling model would give them pause, Collin said.  As executive chairman, Jung “will work really closely with
the CEO and board on the overall strategic direction and brand
position,” Jennifer Vargas, a company spokeswoman, said
yesterday in an interview.  Jung, who sits on the board of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  General
Electric Co. (GE) , remains an asset for Avon -- and that’s why it
makes sense for her to remain chairman, leaving the nuts-and-
bolts operational tasks to someone else, Collin said.  “They can keep Andrea as sort of the flagship face,” she
said. “But they need to run the business divisions
operationally much better.”  Investors seemed to agree: Avon rose 5.1 percent to $16.96
yesterday in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  