-- Juventus Plans $32.5 Million Bid for Tevez, Guardian Reports: Roundup
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2011-12-15T11:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/juventus-plans-32-5-million-bid-for-tevez-guardian-reports-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Juventus Wants Tevez  Juventus has opened talks with Manchester City over a 21
million-pound ($32.5 million) move for Argentina striker  Carlos Tevez ,  the Guardian reported .  City hopes it can negotiate a larger fee as AC Milan and
Paris Saint-Germain are also interested, the newspaper said.  Tevez’s preference is to join Milan, but the Serie A
champion has so far only proposed an initial loan with view to a
17.2 million-pound deal, the Guardian said.  Final Offer  Milan’s offer for Tevez “is final,” the Italian club’s
Vice-President Adriano Galliani was cited as saying  by the Sun .  Milan has reached an agreement with Tevez but has yet to
finalize terms with City, the newspaper said.  “If PSG make a better offer, we will not counter it,”
Galliani said, according to the newspaper.  Pogba Exit  Manchester United midfielder Paul Pogba will open talks
with  Inter Milan  about a move at the end of his contract,
shunning a new deal at Old Trafford,  the Mirror reported .  Pogba can sign a pre-contract agreement with Inter next
month, the newspaper said.  Sunderland Search  Sunderland will attempt to sign a striker next month as the
club cannot recall Asamoah Gyan from his loan spell at Al-Ain in
the United Arab Emirates,  according to the Mirror .  Midfielder Sebastian Larsson is the only player to score
more than two goals for the Black Cats this season.  Onuoha Bid  West Bromwich Albion manager  Roy Hodgson  is ready to make a
4 million-pound bid for Man. City defender Nedum Onuoha after
Jonas Olsson said he may leave the Baggies,  the Mirror said.   City is looking to sell Onuoha, 25, who has played only two
matches for the club this season, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 