-- Kenya Shilling Heads for a 7-Month High on Cash Reserve Measures
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2011-12-15T15:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/kenya-shilling-heads-for-a-7-month-high-on-cash-reserve-measures.html
Kenya ’s shilling strengthened for a
third day against the dollar as a higher  cash reserve ratio ,
effective today, and repurchase agreements reduced liquidity.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy strengthened
as much as 2.8 percent to 84.88 per dollar before paring its
gains to 2.6 percent at 85 per dollar as of 5:17 p.m. in
Nairobi. A close at this level will be the highest since May.  Kenya’s central bank accepted 250 million shillings ($2.9
million) at 11.9 percent for its 4 billion-shilling repurchase
agreements today. An increase in the cash reserve ratio, the
percentage of total deposits commercial banks are prohibited
from lending, by 50 basis points to 5.25 percent, takes effect
today, the central bank said on Nov.1.  “The increase in the cash reserve ratio and participation
of the central bank in the money market through  repurchase
agreements  has sucked liquidity, hence the strengthening of the
shilling,” Duncan Kinuthia, a dealer at Nairobi-based
Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said in a phone interview. The
shilling is likely to gain further as businesses wind down their
operations for the year-end, he said.  The bank has mopped up 6 billion shillings in the last two
days in repurchase agreements, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In a repo, the regulator sells securities in a bid to
withdraw  money supply  from the system.  Uganda , Tanzania  Uganda’s currency strengthened for the fourth day, the
longest streak since Dec 2., as the central bank bought dollars
to stem “volatility”. The shilling gained 0.2 percent to
2,380.40, the highest since May 24.  “We intervened in the market on the buy side to curb
volatility,” Jan Tibamwenda, the bank’s spokesman, said by
phone from the capital, Kampala. “We bought dollars but our
policy is that we don’t mention the extent of our
intervention.”  The Tanzanian shilling weakened for the second time this
week, declining by 0.3 percent to 1,610.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  