-- KGHM Drops to 15-Month Low as Poland Details Copper Tax Plan
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2011-12-15T13:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/kghm-drops-to-15-month-low-as-poland-details-copper-tax-plan.html
KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , the copper
miner with the biggest European mine output, dropped to a 15-
month low after Poland published a draft of the new copper tax
bill it plans to implement in 2012.  KGHM lost as much as 13 percent to 105 zloty in Warsaw, the
lowest intraday level since Aug. 31, 2010. The WIG20 Index fell
0.9 percent. The shares shed 7 percent after a Bloomberg report
that the new levy won’t reduce the base calculating corporate
income tax. Poland plans to raise about 1.8 billion zloty ($517
million) from a new copper and silver extraction tax, which
would be paid by KGHM, Poland’s sole copper producer.  The government confirmed the number in the draft bill
published today, saying it expects to raise about 2.2 billion
zloty from the tax in the following years. The  Finance Ministry 
set the maximum level of the tax at 32,000 zloty ($9,138) a ton,
it said on its website. The limit is based on a monthly average
copper price exceeding 52,000 zloty a ton.  “According to my estimates for copper and the zloty-dollar
rate, the tax will be higher than expected,” Leszek Iwaszko, an
analyst at  Societe Generale , said by phone from Warsaw today.  The new copper won’t be treated as a cost for calculating
the corporate income tax, said Marek Firlej from the Finance
Ministry’s tax policy department in a phone interview.  Below the maximum level, copper producers will pay the tax
according to a formula with a lower tax limit set at 130 zloty a
ton when the average monthly price of the metal doesn’t exceed
13,000 zloty a ton. Iwaszko estimates that copper will trade at
$7,950 a ton in 2012, with the zloty-dollar rate at 3.13.  ‘Progressive’ Formula  “The formula is very progressive, Iwaszko said. ‘‘It
penalizes the company when the copper price is high and it’s
lenient when the price drops.’’  Iwaszko said the formula implies ‘‘eating up’’ about 40
percent of annual net income in the next four years.  KGHM ‘‘needs time’’ to analyze the draft and its impact on
its strategy, spokesman Dariusz Wyborski said. KGHM estimates
that the average copper price will be at $8,000 a ton next year,
Radoslaw Zalozinski, the head of KGHM’s hedging department, told
the PAP newswire yesterday. Wyborski declined to comment today
on the assumed zloty-dollar rate.  ‘‘The progressive formula is triggered at a very low copper
price, which is very negative news,’’ Tomasz Duda, an analyst at
 Ipopema Securities SA (IPE) , said by phone today. ‘‘It means that any
KGHM’s profit will be taxed at quite a high rate.’’  According to the document published today, the new tax, to
be paid monthly, is planned to be introduced on March 1,
compared with a previous plan of April 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  