-- Putin, Prokhorov Put Khodorkovsky Pardon in Play in Presidential Vote Bids
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2011-12-15T15:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/khodorkovsky-becomes-russian-campaign-issue-as-putin-prokhorov-seek-votes.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  raised
the prospect of freeing  Mikhail Khodorkovsky  if he succeeds in
returning to the Kremlin, countering billionaire challenger
 Mikhail Prokhorov ’s pledge to grant a presidential pardon to the
former Yukos Oil Co. owner.  “I’ll consider a petition if he writes this request, but
first it’s necessary to become president,” Putin told reporters
in Moscow today after his annual call-in television show, which
lasted 4 1/2 hours. “The law is such that a person serving a
prison sentence and convicted by a court verdict must write a
petition for pardon and effectively admit his guilt, something
Khodorkovsky hasn’t yet done.”  Khodorkovsky was Russia’s richest man when he was arrested
at gunpoint on the tarmac of a Siberian airport in October 2003,
during Putin’s first presidential term. He was later convicted
of  tax evasion  and oil embezzlement in two trials and sentenced
to a total of 13 years in prison as Yukos was dismantled and
sold at auction to cover more than $30 billion in back taxes.
Khodorkovsky, who denies any guilt, says he was targeted by
Putin for financing opposition parties.  ‘Dangerous’  Western governments including the U.S. have called the case
against Khodorkovsky politically motivated, though Putin has
said he played no role in the prosecution.  Khodorkovsky is currently serving time at a penal colony
near  Finland , after being incarcerated in the Chita region near
 China . President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s human rights council in July
called for an amnesty for economic crimes that would apply to
Khodorkovsky and Medvedev himself said in May that freeing
Khodorkovsky wouldn’t be “dangerous” for the country.  “I don’t trust Putin,” said Yuri Schmidt, a lawyer for
Khodorkovsky. “He doesn’t say, ‘I will pardon Khodorkovsky if
he makes an appeal.’ He says, ‘I will consider it,’” Schmidt
said by phone in Moscow.  “The president has a right to issue a pardon irrespective
of any admission of guilt and Khodorkovsky has repeatedly said
he won’t recognize his guilt,” the lawyer said.  Prokhorov, who announced his intention to challenge Putin
for the presidency on Dec. 12, today said his first act as
president would be to set Khodorkovsky free.  ‘Humanism’  “It’s important to display humanism and the president
should set an example,” Prokhorov told reporters in the Russian
capital before Putin, 59, addressed the nation.  Prokhorov, 46, said the Dec. 4 parliamentary elections won
by Putin’s dominant United Russia party were “falsified” and
encouraged disgruntled opposition leaders to challenge the
results in court. He said he may attend an anti-Putin rally
planned for central Moscow on Dec. 24.  Tens of thousands of Russians have taken to the streets
since the vote, culminating in a Dec. 10 protest that was the
largest held in Moscow since Putin came to power more than a
decade ago.  Putin compared the rallies to Ukraine’s so-called Orange
Revolution that brought U.S.-backed opposition leader  Viktor
Yushchenko  to power in 2004 over Putin’s favored candidate,
 Viktor Yanukovych , who became president last year.  ‘I am Useful’  “The opposition will always claim results aren’t fair,”
Putin said on national television. Some of the demonstrators
were paid to be there, Putin said.  Prokhorov said he’ll ensure his candidacy doesn’t serve
Putin’s goal of defusing mass protests.  “Of course I am useful to the Kremlin in the elections,”
Prokhorov said in a  blog  posting yesterday. “They want to play
with democracy so that people have ‘some kind of a choice.’ The
authorities want to use us for their own understandable goals,
but we will use them.”  Putin today said Prokhorov will be a “worthy and strong
competitor” in the campaign.  “Mikhail Dmitrievich is a man who sticks to his plan and
doesn’t veer,” Putin said, using Prokhorov’s patronymic. “I
understand he made the decision to use a new platform to promote
ideas that he thinks are right for the country.”  Calling for Khodorkovsky’s release is a clever campaign
tactic because it clearly differentiates Prokhorov from Putin,
 Roland Nash , chief investment strategist at Moscow-based Verno
Capital, which manages $175 million, said in an interview today.  ‘Glamorous Oligarch’  His denunciation of electoral fraud is also aimed at
attracting middle-class voters, said Nash.  “That’s the electorate that he’s going after, either
because he really genuinely wants to be elected president or
because he’s absorbing some of the pressure away from the
Kremlin,” Nash said.  Prokhorov, who owns the New Jersey Nets basketball team,
about 36 percent of Polyus Gold International Ltd. and 17
percent of aluminum maker United Co. Rusal, is the country’s
third-richest man with a fortune Forbes magazine puts at $18
billion.  Sergei Markov , a former United  Russia  lawmaker who heads
the Institute of Political Studies in Moscow, is among the
analysts who have characterized Prokhorov’s candidacy as a ploy
to benefit Putin by legitimizing the March vote through the
appearance of genuine competition.  “There are two possibilities here, either it’s something
agreed with Putin to bolster the legitimacy of the presidential
elections after the recent protests or Prokhorov could be
jumping on the bandwagon of the protests,” Markov said Dec. 12.
“Prokhorov is a glamorous oligarch and he’s got plenty of money
to spend on promoting himself.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  