-- China’s King & Wood, Mallesons Combine to Create Asia’s Largest Law Firm
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2011-12-16T00:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/king-wood-mallesons-combine-to-create-asia-s-largest-law-firm.html
King & Wood  and  Mallesons Stephen
Jaques  said they will combine to create Asia’s largest law firm
with more than 2,180 lawyers in China and Australia, as well as
in cities including London,  New York  and  Tokyo .  “We’re creating a new law firm for the Asian century,”
said Stuart Fuller, who will become global managing partner of
the combined firm, King & Wood Mallesons, when the alliance
takes effect March 1.  The firms’ Hong Kong offices will merge and combine with
the partnerships in China and Australia through a so-called
verein structure, maintaining separate finances. While law firms
including London-based Ashurst LLP and Australia’s Blake Dawson
have agreed to merge this year, others, like Herbert Smith LLP
of  London  and  Germany ’s Gleiss Lutz, are ending alliances.  King & Wood Mallesons “is a pioneering step by two firms
seeking to go global,” said Anthony Root, the China practice
head of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCoy LLP. “Like any such
effort, it presents significant opportunities as well as
challenges.”  The combined firm will be able to provide Chinese state-
owned enterprises venturing abroad one-stop advice on energy and
resource acquisitions said Wang Ling, King & Wood’s Beijing-
based managing partner, in an interview.  King & Wood has won work from large Chinese state
enterprises on deals in  Canada  and  South Africa  as a result of
the tie-up, which had been discussed for a year, according to
partner Handel Lee.  Continuing Chinese Acquisitions  “ China ’s energy and resources requirements are going to
continue to need to be satisfied so we don’t see any change”
next year due to the problems in  Europe , Lee said. He added that
Chinese companies will also be looking for opportunities in  food
security  and financial services abroad.  “Australia and China are more robust parts of the world
and our clients there are still looking for growth,” said
Robert Milliner, chief executive partner at Mallesons, which
traces its history to 1832. “The world has become much more
complex and we’re primarily placed in these opportunity
markets,” he said.  Milliner, who will be succeeded by Fuller on Jan. 1, added
that Mallesons’ Australian clients, including one financial
institution it has advised for over a century, think the
alliance means they can work with someone they trust in China.  Resources Boom  China is Australia’s largest trading partner and its demand
for  iron ore  and coal is driving the biggest resources boom in a
century in Australia. Ties between the two countries were
strained in 2010 with the trial and imprisonment in China of
 Stern Hu , an Australian convicted of accepting bribes and
commercial spying while working for Rio Tinto Group.  King & Wood Mallesons brings together the Australian firm
with the highest profit-per-partner and legal publisher  Chambers
and Partners ’ best China law firm of 2010, and will have 21
offices, including 11 in China, five in Australia, and in London,
New York and Tokyo.  The two firms will merge their  Hong Kong  partnerships to
have over 130 lawyers in the city, which maintains a separate
legal system from that of mainland China. Wang Junfeng, who left
a Chinese state-owned law firm to found King & Wood in 1993,
will be chairman of the combined firm based in Beijing.  IPOs  King & Wood is the top legal adviser on Chinese initial
public offerings this year according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its international clients include Nestle SA, the
world’s largest food company, which this year won Chinese
regulatory approval for its acquisition of Guangdong province-
based snack maker Hsu Fu Chi International Ltd.  “We’ll be the only top firm in the world based in  Asia ,”
said Lee. “Our goal and vision is to become a global, top tier
firm, beyond Asia,” he said. He declined to discuss potential
U.S. or U.K. initiatives, saying the priority was integration
and “how to establish our presence in Asia.”  “We share common values, and our approach to who we
recruit and how we retain and nurture our talent is closely
aligned,” said Fuller, who will relocate to Hong Kong from
Sydney and also serve as chief executive of the new Hong Kong
partnership.  Two Mallesons partners are leaving the firm in China
following the tie up. Beijing chief representative John Shi and
mergers and acquisitions partner Nicolas Groffman are joining
 DLA Piper  in Beijing, the world’s largest law firm announced in
November.  Hong Kong Battleground  Hong Kong has become a battleground for global law firms,
with U.S. firms such as Milbank and Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP
expanding in the last two years in a challenge to London-based
firms which have dominated financial legal advice in the former
British colony.  Beijing’s Dacheng Law Offices, Asia’s largest firm with
over 2,000 lawyers and partners, opened a Hong Kong office in
2010.  U.K. firms have expanded in  Australia , leading to some
lawyers saying that Australian firms must tie up with foreign
firms to compete.  “The large domestic law firms here will not exist in their
current form in the next five years,” said Chris Freeland, the
national managing partner at  Baker & McKenzie  in Australia.
“Every large law firm must have an international strategy,
whether it’s a merger, or a relationship in some form.”  King & Wood Mallesons has the flexibility to add new
members to its network, Fuller said.  “This is the first step in the journey for us,” he said 
in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  King & Wood previously entered an alliance with Australia’s
Gilbert & Tobin, the first between King & Wood and a Western law
firm, according to the Australian firm’s website.  “They’re a terrific firm with a wonderful leader and I
wish them every success in their venture with Mallesons,” Danny
Gilbert, managing partner at Gilbert & Tobin, wrote in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  