-- Kors Raises $944M in IPO, Pricing Above Range
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2011-12-15T21:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/kors-raises-944-million-in-ipo-pricing-shares-above-range.html
Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. , the
clothing company founded by the designer of that name, rose 21
percent in its trading debut after raising more than originally
sought in its initial public offering.  The shares advanced to $24.20 in New York Stock Exchange
trading after earlier surged to $26.15. The company sold 47.2
million shares yesterday for $20 apiece to raise $944 million,
19 percent more than planned.  Kors Holdings, whose sales surged more than 60 percent in
the first half, plans to more than double the number of its
stores over the “long term,” according to a  regulatory filing .
The company, founded in 1981, also has opportunities to license
the Kors brand, said Steven Dennis, founder of the luxury
consulting firm Sageberry Consulting LLC.  “It’s a very solid business and it has been growing
really, really nicely,” said Dennis, who is based in  Dallas .
“They have a number of growth opportunities ahead of them.”  The company had initially offered 41.7 million shares on
behalf of existing shareholders for $17 to $19. Michael Kors
himself, the largest individual investor, planned to trim his
stake to 8.6 percent from about 12 percent, according to the
original terms of the offering.  Sportswear Holdings Ltd., the largest shareholder, planned
to cut its stake to 38 percent from 52 percent, while Chief
Executive Officer John Idol intended to reduce his stake to 5.1
percent. Kors Holdings didn’t plan to sell any shares in the
offering.  Coach,  Ralph Lauren   Laurence Stroll and Silas Chou, of Sportswear Holdings,
helped develop the Tommy Hilfiger brand, and Idol previously ran
Donna Karan International Inc.  “They are super operators, they know how to build
brands,” said Marc Cooper, head of the retail practice at New
York-based investment bank Peter J. Solomon Co.  The company also benefits from more affordable pricing and
more easily wearable -- “safe” -- fashions than some
designers, according to Sageberry Consulting’s Dennis. Michael
Kors handbags can be purchased in the $400 range, compared with
at least $800 for Prada and other designer labels, he said.  The midpoint of the proposed price range valued Kors
Holdings at more than $3.4 billion, or 3.4 times trailing 12-
month sales through Oct. 1, according to the prospectus.  Coach
Inc. (COH)  trades at about 4 times sales over the same period, and
Ralph Lauren Corp. is at about 2 times sales.  Europe,  Japan   Kors Holdings’ sales increased to $548.7 million in the six
months through Oct. 1 from $340.9 million a year earlier. Net
income in the fiscal year ended April 2 jumped 85 percent to
$72.5 million. Kors Holdings operated 184 North American stores
and shops within department stores as of Nov. 26, and 37 in
Europe and Japan, according to the prospectus.  While Kors Holdings has principal executive offices in  Hong
Kong , designer Kors, who is the chief creative officer, leads a
New York-based team that is responsible for the company’s
products.  Michael Kors  also is a judge on the fashion-design
show “Project Runway” with model Heidi Klum.  Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. managed the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net 
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 