-- National Retail Federation Raises Holiday Sales Forecast
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2011-12-15T15:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/national-retail-federation-raises-holiday-forecast-to-3-8-gain.html
Retail sales in the U.S. holiday
shopping season may rise 3.8 percent to a record $469.1 billion,
higher than an earlier forecast, helped by strong traffic on
Black Friday, the  National Retail Federation  said.  The trade group previously projected sales in November and
December would gain 2.8 percent to $465.6 billion. The 3.8
percent gain would be higher than the 10-year average of 2.6
percent growth and slower than last year’s 5.2 percent increase,
the Washington-based group said today in a statement.  U.S. shoppers flocked to malls and websites during
Thanksgiving weekend, spending a record $52.4 billion. Consumers
took advantage of earlier opening hours and deals at retailers
from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to Toys “R” Us Inc.  “The strong numbers are impossible to ignore and show a
certain optimism,”  Ellen Davis , an NRF vice president, said in
an interview. “There has been a slight uptick in momentum.”  An improving labor market may help sustain the gains in
 consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the
 U.S. economy . Payrolls climbed by 120,000 workers in November
and the jobless rate fell to 8.6 percent, the lowest since March
2009.  Still, shoppers are being restrained by political discord
in Washington, low housing values and fears that the European
debt crisis may trigger a recession in the U.S., Davis said.
That’s making them careful to stick to a budget.  “They’re still more cautious than in the past,” she said.  No ‘Fireworks’ Yet  Consumers had about 65 percent of their holiday purchasing
done as of the second week of Dec. 11, the International Council
of Shopping Centers said this week. That was 1 percentage point
higher than at the same weekend a year earlier, the New York-
based group said.  Shoppers don’t have much more money to spend and may have
used some of their budgets on items for themselves, said  Marshal Cohen , chief industry analyst at NPD Group in  Port Washington ,
New York.  “One Thanksgiving weekend does not a season make,” Cohen
said in a telephone interview. “It’s a little soon to be
blowing into the horn and setting off the fireworks.”  Stores’ aggressive discounts and free shipping on orders
over the Internet may hurt retailers’ profit margins, especially
for those dealing with higher labor and raw-material costs this
year, said Poonam Goyal, a Bloomberg Industries analyst.  That already began happening during the third quarter. The
average gross margin, or the percentage of sales left after the
cost of goods sold, for 43 retail companies in the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 Index narrowed to 32.2 percent, from 33.1 percent a
year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ashley Lutz in  New York  at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  