-- Netflix Offers Customers Extra Disc in Holiday Promotion
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2011-12-15T23:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/netflix-offers-customers-extra-disc-in-holiday-promotion-1-.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the mail-order and
streaming video service, offered DVD subscribers an extra disc
as a freebie in orders placed during a year-end promotion that
reverses a stance against new marketing plans.  “As a gesture of thanks this holiday season, we’d like to
offer you a free bonus DVD rental to supplement your DVD
subscription,” the  Los Gatos , California-based company said
today in an e-mail to customers.  Netflix Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  has been
seeking to contain a subscriber revolt over a price increase and
an aborted plan to split its streaming and DVD-by-mail
businesses. The Los Gatos, California-based company put a global
expansion plan on hold after predicting losses for next year.  The DVD promotion goes against the position that Hastings
took Oct. 24 during a conference call with analysts. Netflix in
the past focused on attracting streaming subscribers, he said.  “We don’t plan on any substantial change to it,” Hastings
said then. “The focus for us is in building back our reputation
and brand strength. But that’s not through grand gestures,
signing some crazy content deal or doing something else.”  Netflix lost 800,000 U.S. subscribers in the third quarter,
the company reported on Oct. 24. Hastings reiterated at a
conference Dec. 6 that “we’re not putting a lot of time and
energy” into the DVD business. He declined at the time to
comment on fourth-quarter subscriber trends, while predicting
gains in 2012.  A Netflix spokesman,  Steve Swasey , said it was the first
time the company offered a bonus disc to all its DVD customers.
He declined to reveal how much the promotion might cost.  “We thought it was a good thing to do but don’t think it
falls into the ‘grand gestures’ category,” Swasey said in an
interview. “It’s not a big promotion but it’s part of our step-
by-step, brick-by-brick plan of rebuilding loyalty.”  Netflix fell 1.9 percent to $69.72 at the close in  New
York . The stock has lost 60 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  