-- NJ’s Richest County Leads Rise in Food Stamp Recipients
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2011-12-15T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/new-jersey-s-wealthiest-county-leads-rise-in-residents-using-food-stamps.html
New Jersey ’s Hunterdon County, the
hilly region of horse farms and weekend retreats where last
year’s median  household income  was almost $100,000, is a
surprising new face of federal food aid.  The percentage of U.S. households using food stamps has
more than doubled in six of the 10 wealthiest counties in the
nation as more residents find themselves out of work and unable
to sell their homes. The increase among counties with more than
65,000 people was greatest in Hunterdon County, according to
Census Bureau data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hunterdon, whose 2010 median household income of $97,874
was the highest in New Jersey and fourth-highest in the U.S, saw
food-stamp usage surge 513 percent between 2007 and 2010,
although the overall numbers are small.  “Sometimes people will come in a Mercedes,” said Gina
Davio, 41, program director of social services at Fisherman’s
Mark, a non-profit social-services center in Lambertville, a
city of 3,900 on the  Delaware River . “Sometimes they come in
nothing but  Ralph Lauren , but you never know: That may be all
they have left.”  Nationwide, requests for emergency food assistance
increased over the past year in 25 of 29 cities surveyed by the
U.S. Conference of Mayors. Unemployment led the list of reasons
for requesting the aid, followed by poverty, low-wage jobs and
high housing costs, according to the survey released today.
Eighty-eight percent of the cities reported an increase in the
number of persons requesting food assistance for the first time.  Needing Help  In Hunterdon County, the number of households enrolled in
the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or  SNAP , the $75
billion federal system still widely known as  food stamps  even
after a title change in 2008, increased to 1,424 in 2010 from
232 in 2007.  Neighboring Somerset County, where the late Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis hunted foxes on horseback and the Far Hills
steeplechase is a highlight of the social season, increased its
caseload almost threefold, to 3,777, from 1,237. That county, a
45-minute drive from the Lincoln Tunnel to midtown  Manhattan ,
has the eighth-highest household income, at $94,270. Morris
County, 10th in the national income rank and home to Governor
 Chris Christie , more than doubled its food-stamp enrollment to
4,076 cases from 1,680.  Food-stamp usage also more than doubled in the Washington,
D.C., suburbs of Loudoun and Fairfax counties in  Virginia , the
two wealthiest in the nation, as well as in that state’s Prince
William County, the census data show.  Federal Benefits  Christie, at a news conference at the Food Bank of South
Jersey in Pennsauken yesterday, said he hadn’t personally seen
evidence of hunger in Morris County.  “In some of those affluent counties it’s hidden even more
because it’s unexpected and because the people who are there try
affirmatively to hide it,” he said. “But we know it’s there.
We know it’s there by the statistics.”  Hunger in New Jersey’s wealthier areas is apparent at the
Food Bank Network of Somerset County in Bridgewater, which is
serving about 3,500 individuals this year, a 35 percent increase
from 2010.  “So many people out there are coming from the hills --
Bernardsville and  Basking Ridge , a lot of Bedminster people,”
Marie Scannell, the bank’s executive director, said in a phone
interview.  Forty-five percent who use the food bank also collect the
federal benefits, compared with 30 percent last year, said
Scannell, 70. In 2005, Somerset County counted 538 foreclosures,
according to the Administrative Office of the Courts. Last year,
the figure was 1,580.  ‘Curbing Hunger’  In June, the Somerset Hills Republican Club appealed to
donors to fill orange “Curbing Hunger” bags, distributed by
the county months earlier, and drop them at the Bernardsville
rail station.  “Some may be wealthy, but like everywhere we have our
share of people in need,” said Barbara Long, 72, the club’s
president.  Lambertville , about 15 miles north of the state capital of
Trenton, has a mix of middle-class families,  New Yorkers  who
maintain weekend homes, third- and fourth-generation residents
and Hispanic immigrants. In October, demand at Fisherman’s Mark,
four blocks from downtown art galleries and antique shops, was
up 23 percent compared with a year earlier, said Davio. Nine
percent of the October clients were there for the first time.  “We see a lot of families who used to make a lot of money
and are in a transition mode -- whether it’s due to a divorce,
loss of a job or medical bills -- that don’t have the ability to
put the reins on the way they were living,” Davio said.  Reaching Out  In Trenton, one of the cities surveyed by the mayors group,
the Mercer Street Friends Food Bank started a SNAP outreach
program last year to increase participation in the food-stamp
program.  Mercer County, which includes Trenton, saw food-stamp usage
more than double between 2007 and 2010, the Census data show.  Kenneth Schapiro, a Hunterdon County resident who is
founder and president of investment adviser Condor Capital in
Martinsville, part of Somerset County, said he’s not surprised
by the rise in food-stamp use. Housing is 30 percent to 40
percent off its peak in the area, he said in an e-mail.  “I run a few businesses in the area and have seen some
collection issues, where in the past we have seen none,”
Schapiro wrote.  Leaving Property Alone  In  New Jersey , whose 2010 median household income of
$67,681 was second-highest in the nation behind  Maryland , a
family of four qualifies if its gross monthly income is less
than $3,447. While applicants can be denied if they have certain
liquid assets, their property and cars haven’t been taken into
account since April 2010, when the income threshold was
increased, according to Nicole Brossoie, assistant commissioner
of public affairs for human services.  “Home, car, etc. are not easily liquidated to support
families’ immediate food needs,” Brossoie said in an e-mail.  New Jersey’s economy was ranked the third-worst performing
among U.S. states in the year through June 30, according to the
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States Index, which uses data
on employment, income, real estate, taxes and stocks. The
 unemployment rate  was 9.1 percent in October, while the  national
rate  was 9.0 percent that month.  The economic data this year led human services to start a
public-education campaign telling New Jerseyans they may qualify
for the federal food benefits and other programs.  ‘A Different Time’  The rising New Jersey figures may reflect “a situation
where there are more needy people in the community and hopefully
the state is doing a better job of helping them,” said Stacy
Dean, vice president for food assistance policy at the
Washington-based Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, which
researches issues affecting people of low and moderate incomes.  Hunterdon County had the lowest unemployment rate in the
state last year, 7 percent, according to  data  from the state
labor department. That rate, though, is more than double the 2.9
percent unemployment it had in 2007.  George Melick, a Republican member of the county’s
governing body whose family has farmed in the region since the
18th century, said the rise in food benefits is just one facet
of what he called “a different time here in Hunterdon.”  “We have a lot of big houses that are not sale-able,” he
said. “The economy here is worse than some people would let
on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frank Bass in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  