-- New York May Face Larger Budget Gaps as Wall Street Slows, DiNapoli Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2011-12-15T22:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/new-york-may-face-larger-budget-gaps-as-wall-street-slows-dinapoli-says.html
New York City  may face increased
budget deficits because of falling Wall Street profits, an
“uncertain economic recovery” and the prospect of reduced
federal and state aid, state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said.  The securities industry lost almost $3 billion in the third
quarter of 2011, cutting year-to-date profits to $9.6 billion,
DiNapoli  reported  today. He predicted profits will come in
“significantly short” of the $20 billion the city forecast for
2011 in its financial plan, saying weakness on Wall Street may
lower tax collections by $100 million in the next fiscal year.  “With its prospects dimming, the industry has begun to cut
costs and reduce employment and employee compensation, actions
which will ripple through the New York City economy,”
DiNapoli’s office said in a statement. “Cash bonuses paid to
securities-industry employees in the city are likely to be
substantially smaller than last year.”  Job Cuts  Wall Street  contributed about 7 percent of city tax revenue
in fiscal 2011, almost half of the prerecession level of 13
percent, DiNapoli estimated in a previous report. Financial
firms globally have disclosed plans to eliminate more than
200,000 jobs this year in response to market turmoil, economic
weakness and fallout from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Broker-dealer profits totaled $12.6 billion in the first
half of this year, down 10.8 percent from the same period a year
ago, the comptroller’s report said.  “Underlying profitability at the large firms was even
weaker than reported because third-quarter profits were boosted
by accounting adjustments,” it stated.  The securities industry has lost about 1,800 jobs in the
city since April, the comptroller said. In October, a report by
the office forecast that the industry may lose almost 10,000
jobs by the end of 2012.  The city’s $70.3 billion financial plan for fiscal 2013,
which begins in July, contains a budget deficit of $2 billion
that may grow to $4.9 billion by 2015. Those estimates don’t
reflect probable federal and state aid cuts, or the possibility
that Governor  Andrew Cuomo  may veto a bill that would generate
$1 billion for the city through the sale of new taxi medallions.
The European crisis poses additional risk to the U.S. and city
economies, the comptroller said.  ‘More Difficult’  “While the city has taken steps to narrow next year’s
budget gap, the projected out-year gaps are considerably larger
and will be more difficult to close,” DiNapoli said. “The
risks are accelerating rather than decreasing.”  The city faces additional costs from debt service, which
may rise as much as 45 percent by 2015, to $7.3 billion, the
report said.  “The mayor has been saying for some time that the economic
picture remains uncertain,” said  Marc LaVorgna , a spokesman for
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg . “We have a tough road ahead and will
continue to take the same proven approach.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said today it will cut about 1,600 jobs in
the first quarter of next year.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the
second-largest U.S. lender, said in September that it plans to
cut 30,000 jobs.  While lower credit losses have helped earnings at U.S.
commercial banks, the traditional Wall Street businesses have
suffered. Revenue from  investment banking  and trading at the 10
largest global firms fell 12 percent in the first nine months of
this year, after a 23 percent decline in 2010, according to
industry consultant Coalition Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  