-- Dudley Doesn’t Foresee More Fed Action to Limit Harm from European Crisis
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2011-12-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/new-york-s-dudley-doesn-t-see-further-efforts-by-fed-to-curb-europe-crisis.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said the Fed isn’t planning to
undertake additional steps to curtail the impact of Europe’s
crisis, while standing by to boost liquidity if necessary.  “At this time, although I do not anticipate further
efforts by the Federal Reserve to address the potential
spillover effects of Europe on the United States, we will
continue to monitor the situation closely,” Dudley, 58, said in
prepared testimony. He is scheduled to appear at 9:30 a.m. at a
hearing in  Washington  of a House Oversight and Government Reform
subcommittee, which posted the remarks on its website.  The Fed “has a range of tools available to provide an
effective liquidity backstop” for U.S. financial institutions
if the crisis escalates, Dudley said. U.S. banks don’t currently
“face difficulty obtaining liquidity in short-term funding
markets,” he said.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled this week he’s concerned
that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis will damage a 2 1/2-year
expansion in the U.S. and that the central bank is prepared to
provide easing if needed. The  Federal Open Market Committee  said
after meeting in Washington on Dec. 13 that “strains in global
financial markets continue to pose significant downside risks to
the economic outlook,” and that there is an “apparent slowing
in global growth.”  Swap-Use Surge  The Fed’s swap lines to foreign central banks surged $52
billion to $54.3 billion this week after the Fed and five other
central banks lowered borrowing costs by a half-percentage point
in a coordinated action. The Fed lends dollars through the swaps
to other central banks, which auction them to local commercial
banks and give the Fed foreign currency as collateral.  “By reducing the cost of dollar funding via the swap lines
last month, we reduced the pressure on banks in Europe to
abruptly liquidate their U.S. dollar assets,” Dudley said.
“Thus, this step will help to insulate U.S. markets from the
pressures in Europe and support the availability of credit to
U.S. households and businesses.”  Dudley’s remarks echo those made by Bernanke to Republican
senators on Dec. 14. Bernanke said the Fed plans no additional
aid to European banks amid the region’s crisis, according to
senators  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee  and  Lindsey Graham  of  South
Carolina , who attended the meeting.  While the Fed may not be able to lend directly to banks
outside the U.S., it can provide loans to their U.S. branches
through the discount window. The Fed’s currency-swap lines also
provide indirect dollar funding to overseas banks through the
 European Central Bank  and other central banks who assume the
credit risk.  ‘Severely Impaired’  “It is in the U.S. national interest to make sure that
non-U.S. banks that are judged to be sound by their central bank
are able to access the U.S. dollar funding they need in order to
be able to continue to finance their  U.S. dollar  assets,”
Dudley said. “If the access to dollar funding were severely
impaired, this could necessitate the abrupt, forced sales of
dollar assets by these banks, which could seriously disrupt U.S.
markets and adversely affect U.S. businesses, consumers, and
jobs.”  Lending through the swap lines peaked at $586 billion in
December 2008. The swaps are separate from Fed emergency loans
to banks and other businesses that peaked at $1.2 trillion the
same month, including about $538 billion that European financial
companies borrowed directly, according to a Bloomberg News
examination of available data.  Pressure on Banks  A worsening crisis in Europe risks damaging overseas demand
for U.S. goods and services, putting pressure on the U.S.
banking system and causing financial-market conditions to
deteriorate, Dudley said.  “I am hopeful that  Europe  can effectively address its
current fiscal challenges,” Dudley said. “Although the  U.S.
economy  is currently expanding at a moderate pace, we face
significant downside risks, mostly relating to the sovereign
debt crisis in Europe.”  Steven Kamin, director of the Fed’s Division of
International Finance, said in prepared testimony for the same
hearing that Europe’s financial stress is “undoubtedly spilling
over” to the U.S. by curbing exports, lowering business and
consumer confidence and adding to pressures on U.S. financial
markets and institutions.  Kamin also defended the swap lines as necessary to help
non-U.S. financial companies who “have heavy borrowing needs in
our currency.” The half percentage-point cut in borrowing costs
last month was needed to contain growing market strains that
“if left unchecked, could impair the supply of credit to
households and businesses in the  United States  and impede our
economic recovery,” Kamin said.  Foreign central banks assume the credit risk on the dollar
loans from the Fed, whose “interactions with them over the
years have provided a track record that justifies a high degree
of trust and cooperation,” Kamin said. Fees on the swap lines
have added about $6 billion to the Fed’s earnings over the past
five years, increasing returns to taxpayers, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  