-- New York Manufacturing Grows More Than Forecast to Highest in Seven Months
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2011-12-15T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/new-york-manufacturing-grows-more-than-forecast-to-highest-in-seven-months.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  region
expanded more than forecast to the highest level in seven months
in December, as measures of employment and new orders improved.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s  general economic
index  rose to 9.5, from 0.6 in November. Economists projected
the gauge would rise to 3, based on the median of 55 forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings higher than zero signal
expansion among companies in the so-called Empire State Index,
which covers New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern
Connecticut.  Manufacturers may stay at the forefront of the economic
expansion as they boost production to replenish depleted
stockpiles and meet household and business demand. At the same
time, the financial crisis in  Europe  and a slowdown in  China  may
limit overseas sales.  “Improving  consumer spending  is helping power rising
orders and production,”  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff
Economic Advisors Inc. in Holland, Pennsylvania, said before the
report. “If the manufacturing sector is doing well, it tends to
point to solid overall economic activity.”  Estimates  of economists surveyed ranged from no change to
7.5. The headline index is based on a separate question and does
not reflect changes in areas like orders and employment. For
that reason, some economists consider it a measure of sentiment.  The Empire State gauge of shipments rose to 21 from 9.4.
New factory orders increased to 5.1 from minus 2.1 last month. A
measure of the number of employees climbed to 2.3 from minus
3.7.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district became
more optimistic about the future, the report showed. The gauge
measuring the outlook six months from now climbed to 52 from 39.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  