-- NRC’s Jaczko Backed by U.S. Senate Democrats in Agency Feud
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2011-12-15T19:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/nrc-s-jaczko-backed-by-u-s-senate-democrats-in-agency-feud-1-.html
U.S.  Senate Democrats  defended
Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  in a feud
with his colleagues and criticized other commissioners for
delaying the agency’s response to Japan’s nuclear disaster.  Critics of Jaczko’s leadership are trying to “assassinate
the character of a dedicated public servant,” Senator Barbara Boxer said today at a hearing of the Senate Environment and
Public Works Committee in Washington.  Jaczko, 41, and his colleagues returned to Congress a day
after a House committee examined accusations by the four other
commissioners that the chairman bullied agency employees,
humiliated female workers and blocked information from being
shared. The chairman denied the complaints, saying many actions
have been “misconstrued.”  Jaczko, elevated to chairman by President  Barack Obama ,
said today he accepted a “share of responsibility” for the
rift with the four other commissioners. He told the Senate panel
that he is committed to working with his colleagues.  The NRC, which regulates 104 U.S. commercial reactors, is
considering rules to improve nuclear plant safety after an
earthquake and tsunami caused radiation leaks and meltdowns at
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi facility.  “It’s simply inexcusable” the NRC hasn’t moved quickly to
implement rules after the disaster, Boxer, a California Democrat
and chairman of the committee, said at the hearing on the
agency’s post-Fukushima safety review. Boxer said the House
hearing yesterday on Jaczko’s leadership was a “witch hunt”
and she vowed to focus on the response to the  Japan  crisis.  ‘Can’t Be Ignored’  The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and
Boxer’s panel held hearings after Jaczko’s four colleagues told
White House Chief of Staff William Daley in an Oct. 13 letter
that the NRC chairman’s actions have created a “chilled work
environment” and caused “serious damage” to the agency.  “Chairman Jaczko’s actions simply can’t be ignored,”
Senator  James Inhofe  of  Oklahoma , the top Republican on the
Committee, said today. “The White House appears to be ignoring
the warning of four commissioners.”  Commissioner George Apostolakis said the commissioners
didn’t conspire to weaken the agency’s actions since the
Fukushima crisis by delaying a task-force’s recommendations.  “I find it deeply offensive that ill motives are ascribed
to us,” Apostolakis said.  Verbal Abuse  Three female employees of the NRC complained that Jaczko
verbally abused them in separate instances, Commissioner William Magwood told the House panel yesterday. Jaczko said today he was
“mortified” at those statements.  “I have never intentionally berated, threatened, bullied
or intimidated any member of the staff,” he said. “There are
times at which I can question people intensely.”  Senator Bernard Sanders, an independent from Vermont who
often votes with Democrats, asked Magwood whether he has
considered the NRC chairman’s seat should Jaczko step down.  “I’ve never really expressed much interest in being
chairman,” Magwood said. Magwood said he wouldn’t necessarily
decline the offer if the president asked him to be chairman.  The NRC may soon issue  Southern Co. (SO)  of Atlanta and  Scana
Corp. (SCG)  of Cayce,  South Carolina , the first permits to build U.S.
reactors in more than 30 years. A majority of the commission has
voted to back the AP1000 design from  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s
Westinghouse Electric unit, which Southern and Scana plan to
build at existing plants.  The NRC hasn’t held a final vote to affirm the AP1000, a
necessary step before the companies can obtain construction and
operating licenses for the new reactors.  “We need for this commission to bring it’s A-game to work
every day,” Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat, said at
today’s hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  