-- NY Fed Didn’t Give Corzine or MF Global Preferential Review, Baxter Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2011-12-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/ny-fed-didn-t-give-corzine-or-mf-global-preferential-review-baxter-says.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. and Jon S. Corzine, the broker’s former chairman and chief executive
officer, didn’t receive preferential treatment in a bid to
become a primary dealer of  government securities , said Thomas C. Baxter Jr., general counsel of the New York Federal Reserve.  Corzine met with officials at the New York Fed on June 1,
2010, and discussed the broker’s efforts to improve its credit
structure by raising $150 million in equity, Baxter said in
testimony prepared for a hearing today of the House Financial
Services subcommittee on oversight and investigations.  MF Global, starting before Corzine became CEO, sought to
expedite a New York Fed review in order to become a primary
dealer. The firm was under orders from the  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission  to overhaul its internal controls. The Fed’s
policy was to impose a one-year waiting period after such an
enforcement action. MF Global argued the matter wasn’t material
to its application, Baxter said.  The New York Fed disagreed and reviewed MF Global’s
application “without fear or favor,” Baxter said in the
testimony. MF Global was approved as a primary dealer on Feb. 2,
2011. That status was revoked by the Fed on Oct. 31, the same
day the firm filed for bankruptcy.  Primary dealers participate in auctions of  U.S. government
debt  and provide the New York Fed’s trading desk with
information and analysis about the market as the central bank
implements interest rate policies. Being designated a primary
dealer “is consistent with our global strategy of expanding our
broker-dealer activities, as we seek to serve our clients with
broader execution services and greater market insight and
ideas,” Corzine said on Feb. 2.  Third Hearing  Baxter is set to appear during the third congressional
hearing into the collapse of MF Global, which filed for
 bankruptcy protection  on Oct. 31. James W. Giddens, the trustee
overseeing the bankruptcy, has estimated that the firm is short
by as much as $1.2 billion in client funds that were supposed to
be kept in segregated accounts.  Corzine, who has said he doesn’t know what happened to the
money, is scheduled to testify for the third time in a week.  U.S. authorities are investigating whether MF Global
Holdings Ltd. intentionally tapped customer funds to cover the
bankrupt firm’s margin payments on European government bond
trades, said people with knowledge of the probe who declined to
be identified because the investigation is ongoing.  Investigators are attempting to determine which
transactions involving customer funds were illegitimate, Jill E. Sommers, the senior CFTC commissioner overseeing the
investigation said in a telephone interview yesterday.  ‘Following a Trail’  “We’re far enough along the trail to see the transactions
going out” of segregated accounts, Sommers said. Investigators
are searching e-mails and other documents to trace the
transactions. “Following a trail is not as easy as it sounds
because money isn’t just transferred from point A to point B and
stopping,” she said.  Sommers said she expects regulators will eventually be able
to determine where all the money went. There may still be a
shortfall because some money may not be available to be clawed
back for customers, she said.  If a transaction that was legitimate in the beginning
“becomes illegitimate” later in a chain of transactions, then
the chances of recovering the funds could be slim. “It may be
gone,” Sommers said.  Dan Berkovitz, CFTC general counsel,  Robert Cook , director
of the division of trading and markets at the Securities and
Exchange Commission, and  Bradley Abelow , president and chief
operating officer at MF Global, are also scheduled to testify at
the hearing today.  The CFTC’s internal watchdog plans to review the agency’s
oversight of MF Global after the probe into the missing funds
runs its course, Judith Ringle, attorney-adviser in the
inspector general’s office, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  