-- New York Times Chief Robinson Retires After Turbulent Era for Newspapers
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2011-12-16T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/nyt-ceo-janet-robinson-to-retire.html
New York Times Co. (NYT)  Chief Executive
Officer Janet Robinson will retire on Dec. 31 after seven years
of steering the company through a turbulent time for the
newspaper industry.  Chairman Arthur Sulzberger Jr. will serve as interim CEO
while the company searches for a permanent replacement, New
York-based Times Co. said yesterday in statement. Robinson, 61,
will step down as a director and be paid $4.5 million as a
consultant for one year, according to a company filing.  Times Co. shares have fallen 82 percent since the end of
2004 as Robinson, like her peers in the newspaper industry,
grapples with declining advertising and circulation as readers
shifted to the Web. She was credited by Sulzberger for
stabilizing the balance sheet and leading a shift to digital
formats, including charging readers to view stories on the Web.  “The paper is in a much better position at the end of 2011
than 18 months ago,” said  Ken Doctor , a media analyst with
Outsell Inc. “They managed to get through a very tough
period.”  The company lost $31.5 million in the past 12 months,
including writedowns of its regional newspapers.  Times Co. shares rose 1.8 percent to $7.53 yesterday in New
York, and have declined 23 percent this year.  Pay Wall  This year, the company started charging for digital
subscriptions to the New York Times, a cash-generating step also
taken by the  Chicago Sun-Times  that is also being studied by the
Los Angeles Times. Times Co. said in July it would pay back $250
million to billionaire  Carlos Slim  earlier than planned. It had
borrowed the money in 2009 as ad sales slumped.  Robinson “has led our continuing transition to a multi-
platform company and directed steps that resulted in an improved
liquidity position and significant cost reductions,” Sulzberger
said in the statement.  He said Robinson, as head of advertising at the Times in
1996, envisioned the plan to expand circulation outside of  New
York , making the newspaper into a national daily.  “The decision to create a national edition changed the
fortunes for the company,” Sulzberger said in a memo to staff.
“It took huge courage and vision on Janet’s part to create and
to successfully implement our national edition.”  In her memo to staff, Robinson highlighted the more recent
period.  “Obviously, the last few years have been tough as,
together, we have navigated one of the most difficult periods in
publishing history,” she wrote. “It is probably an
understatement to say that transitioning from a traditional
print journalism model to the digital world has been an enormous
challenge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  