-- Obama Overstated Failing Schools: Study
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2011-12-15T16:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/obama-overstated-failing-schools-under-u-s-no-child-law-study-indicates.html
Almost half of U.S. public schools
are labeled failing under the federal No Child Left Behind law,
compared with the 80 percent estimate President  Barack Obama ’s
administration cited as a rationale for changing its mandates, a
study found.  The estimated percentage of schools that didn’t show
adequate progress toward passing state standardized tests of
math and reading was 48 percent in 2011, a record and an
increase from 39 percent in 2010, according to a  report  today by
the Center on Education Policy, a Washington-based nonpartisan
research group.  Obama and Education Secretary Arne Duncan cited the 80
percent figure this year in justifying a plan to offer waivers
to the law for states that agree to abide by the
administration’s education agenda, including tying teacher
evaluations to student performance. Congress is also considering
a rewrite of the legislation. The lower estimate still shows the
need for change, said  Jack Jennings , the center’s president.  “Whether it’s 50 percent or 80 percent, the law is too
crude a measure of what is considered failing,” Jennings said
in a phone interview. “The law is defective, and Duncan is
right to want to change it.”  In 2002, President  George W. Bush  signed the No Child Left
Behind law, which was also supported by Democrats including the
late Massachusetts Senator Edward Kennedy. The legislation
requires all children to pass those tests by 2014 --and make
progress toward that goal each year -- or risk losing federal
funds.  Florida , Wisconsin  The center analyzed state reports submitted to the U.S.
Department of Education or interviewed staff in state
governments, according to the report. The percentage of failing
schools varied from state to state, from about 11 percent in
 Wisconsin  to about 89 percent in Florida.  Under No Child Left Behind, each state establishes its own
proficiency tests and determines what constitutes passing. That
system penalized states with higher standards and gives them an
incentive to dumb down tests, Duncan has said. In addition,
high-performing schools can be labeled failing if a subgroup of
students -- such as students with disabilities or those who
speak English as a second language -- don’t pass tests.  The administration is studying why its projection this year
was higher, said Peter Cunningham, an assistant education
secretary. It could be due to changes in state policies
regarding testing or an improvement in student achievement, he
said.  “The trend is still clear,” Cunningham said in a phone
interview. “More and more schools are being labeled failing,
triggering a one-size-fits-all response under No Child Left
Behind. States need more flexibility. That’s why we need to fix
the law.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  