-- Obama Seeks Minimum Wage Coverage for Home Health-Care Aides
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2011-12-15T20:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/obama-proposes-extending-minimum-wage-rights-to-home-health-care-workers.html
The Obama administration is
proposing new rules to extend  minimum wage  and  overtime  coverage
for almost 2 million workers who provide home health-care
services for the elderly and infirm.  The proposal by the U.S. Labor Department would protect
health-care aides under the  Fair Labor Standards Act  and reflect
the changing nature of domestic workers as an aging U.S.
population creates greater demand for long-term care in homes,
according to the White House.  President  Barack Obama , appearing with home health-care
aides at the White House to highlight the plan, said such
workers are now classified the same as teenage babysitters and
may be  paid  less than the minimum wage, even when working 70
hours a week.  “That’s just wrong,” Obama said. “They deserve to be
treated fairly. They deserve to be paid fairly for a service
that many older Americans couldn’t live without.”  Such workers are now classified as “companions” and
exempt from the 1974 minimum wage law. The change will ensure
that those workers are properly compensated for the work they
do, Labor Secretary Hilda Solis said in a statement.  “The care provided by in-home workers is crucial to the
quality of life for many families,” Solis said. “The vast
majority of these workers are women, many of whom serve as the
primary breadwinner for their families.”  Minimum Wage Coverage  The proposal by the Labor Department would require that
minimum wages be applied to workers offering tube feeding, wound
care, physical therapy and a variety of other health-related
services, according to the White House. Twenty-nine states don’t
cover such workers with minimum wage protection, the
administration said.  Some Republicans criticized the proposal as more anti-
business regulation from the Obama administration.  “Once again, the administration is pursuing new
regulations without regard for the potential unintended
consequences,” Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota
Republican and chairman of the House Labor and Workforce
Committee, said in an e-mailed statement. “The likely result of
this new rule is reduced hours for home-care workers and higher
costs for taxpayers.”  Agency Workers  Of the 1.8 million home-care workers, 1.6 million are
employed by staffing agencies. More than 92 percent are women,
almost 30 percent are black and 12 percent are Hispanic. Almost
40 percent of them rely on public aid such as Medicaid and food
stamps, according to the administration.  “At a time when we are rightfully focused on creating
jobs, this rule will improve working conditions in a growing
industry, attract more workers to it and better position the
country for the future,” Debra Ness, president of the
Washington-based advocacy group National Partnership for Women &
Families, said in an e-mailed statement.  Demand for health-care aides is rising. The government
projects the number of elderly who are disabled to some degree
will jump in coming years as the  U.S. population  over age 65
increases. There may be as many as 22.6 million disabled elderly
in 2040 from about 5.1 million in 1986, according to the
 Administration on Aging .  There will be a 60-day public comment period and the new
rules may take effect early next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  