-- Obama’s Support Among Young People Slips as More Say He’ll Lose
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2011-12-15T18:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/obama-support-among-young-people-slips-as-more-say-he-ll-lose-poll-shows.html
Barack Obama’s approval rating with
young Americans who were crucial to his 2008 White House victory
has declined to 46 percent, and a greater percentage see the
president losing his bid for a second term than winning, a new
poll finds.  The poll by the Institute of Politics at  Harvard University 
in Cambridge, Massachusetts, shows an “overall lack of
enthusiasm” today among young voters for the presidential
election compared with four years ago, John Della Volpe, the
institute’s polling director, said during a conference call with
reporters.  Thirty-six percent of Americans age 18 to 29 predict that
Obama will lose the election next year, while 30 percent say he
will win. College students, who gave Obama some of his strongest
support in 2008, now give the president a 48 percent approval
rating, down from 60 percent in February, according to the poll.  Winning over this bloc is critical for the president.
Voters under 30 backed Obama by a ratio of 2-1 in 2008 and
volunteered their time to staff phone banks and canvass door-to-
door to round up support.  “The opportunity exists for all political parties and
campaigns to re-engage this generation,”  Trey Grayson , director
of Harvard’s Institute of Politics, said in a statement. “Those
who do can maximize results in 2012.”  Lowest Rating  Obama’s 46 percent approval with young people, down from 55
percent in February, is the lowest since the institute began
polling about the administration in 2009. More than half of the
respondents said they disapprove of the president’s job
performance.  The poll of 2,028 Americans age 18 to 29 was conducted Nov.
23 to Dec. 3 and has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.2
percentage points for the total sample and plus or minus five
percentage points for those identifying themselves as college
students.  Congress is also declining in popularity. Approval of
Democrats in Congress is at 33 percent, down from 45 percent in
February, while Republicans slipped to a 24 percent from 30
percent, the poll found. By a ratio of more than 4-1, young
Americans believe the nation is headed in the wrong direction.  Still, the fact that young people are souring on the
president doesn’t necessarily translate into good news for
whoever emerges as the Republican nominee.  Obama leads in a matchup against a Republican candidate, 35
percent to 29 percent. The president tops former  Massachusetts 
Governor Mitt Romney by 11 percentage points and leads former
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  by 16 points.  Occupy  Wall Street   The poll also found that the Occupy Wall Street movement
isn’t catching on with the so-called millennial generation.
About 1 in 5 of those polled said they support the movement,
compared with 33 percent who don’t. Two-thirds of respondents
said they weren’t following the demonstrations closely.  The protests began in  New York  in September and sparked
similar action throughout the country and the world. Targets of
participants’ ire include growing  income inequality , government
bailouts of U.S. banks, and home foreclosures.  “One of the problems of the Occupy protests all along has
been they’re really good at diagnosing the problem, but not
really coming up or talking about solutions,” Grayson said.
“So that may be another reason why there is such a
disconnect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  