-- F-22 Jet Is ‘Expensive Corroding Hangar Queen,’ McCain Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2011-12-15T18:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/lockheed-s-f-22-expensive-corroding-hangar-queen-mccain-says.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-22 jet is
among several U.S. weapons that are flawed, waste taxpayer
dollars and benefit from the military-industrial alliance,
Senator  John McCain  said today.  Lockheed’s F-22 “may very well become the most expensive,
corroding, hangar queen ever in the history of modern
aviation,” McCain, a Republican from  Arizona , said in remarks
as prepared remarks for delivery on the Senate floor.  The 187th, and last, of what McCain said is a $200 million
fighter rolled off Lockheed Martin’s Marietta, Georgia plant
this week.  He also cited Lockheed’s Advanced Extremely High Frequency
satellite and F-35 jet, the Pentagon’s most expensive weapon, as
flawed programs sustained by the institutional influence of
defense companies, retired military officials they hire and the
military services.  “The military-industrial complex does not cause programs
to fail, but it does help create poorly conceived programs --
that are so fundamentally unsound they are doomed to be poorly
executed. And it does help keep them alive long after they
should have been ended or restructured,” McCain said.  McCain addressed military spending matters as the Senate
started debate on the final version of the $662 billion fiscal
2012 defense bill. His prepared remarks were provided by his
press office.  Skyrocketing Maintenance  McCain highlighted cost, schedule and “sky-rocketing
maintenance costs” for the F-22 that have made maintaining its
stealthy surface “cost-prohibitive to sustain over the long
run.”  “The  Air Force  is now faced with a huge maintenance
headache costing over hundreds of millions of dollars and
growing to keep all F-22 sitting on the ramp from corroding from
the inside out,” McCain said.  F-22 jets began corroding soon after introduction into the
U.S. Air Force in 2005 and it plans to spend $228 million
through 2016 to fix the deteriorating aluminum skin panels, the
Government Accountability Office said in a December 2010 report.  The Air Force bought F-22s “without having conducted
careful developmental testing and reliably estimating how much
they will cost to own and operate,” McCain said.  Operational F-22s are based at Langley Air Force Base, Va.;
Elmendorf AFB,  Alaska ; Holloman AFB, N.M. and Hickam AFB,
 Hawaii .  The entire F-22 fleet was grounded for months this year
because of problems with the aircraft’s on-board oxygen system
that caused pilots to get dizzy or, in some cases, lose
consciousness, a condition called hypoxia, he said.  “While this grounding was lifted, exactly why F-22 pilots
have been experiencing hypoxia remains unknown -- but similar
unexplained incidents continue,” McCain said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  