-- Lockhart Says ‘Unsustainable’ Deficits to Cause Pain for U.S.
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2011-12-15T20:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/lockhart-says-unsustainable-deficits-to-cause-pain-for-u-s-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the U.S. government, and some
state and local governments, must reduce the growth in budget
deficits to a more sustainable level.  “In the public sector, municipal and state governments are
facing mounting pension obligations in coming years that may
prove to be underfunded,” Lockhart said today in a commencement
speech at Georgia State University’s Andrew Young School of
Policy Studies in Atlanta. “At the federal level, an
unsustainable  budget deficit  and debt trends portend deep cuts
and painful adjustments in the coming years.”  Lockhart didn’t comment on the economic outlook or monetary
policy in his speech. The  Federal Open Market Committee  this
week said the U.S. is maintaining its expansion even as global
growth slows.  “We as a society are beset with serious problems that, at
their source, are the fallout of irresponsible, or at least
naïve, financial management,” Lockhart said. “There has been
too much ‘kicking the can down the road,’ as they say, leaving
problems for those who follow, for later generations. Financial
problems won’t go away if we ignore them.”  Lockhart said some U.S. homeowners shared in fiscal
irresponsibility by taking on debt they couldn’t afford and that
U.S. banks have failed by becoming overly concentrated in risky
loans, sometimes without adequate supervision.  Georgia  has led
the nation in bank failures since 2007.  “The Atlanta Fed and other supervisors have acknowledged
we could have done more as watchdogs, but first-order
responsibility rests with the principals of those banks,” he
said.  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy, with Lockhart next voting in 2012. The Atlanta
Fed district includes Alabama,  Florida , Georgia, and portions of
 Louisiana , Mississippi, and Tennessee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  