-- Old Mutual to Sell Nordic Operations to Skandia Liv for $3.25 Billion
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2011-12-15T16:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/old-mutual-to-sell-nordic-operations-to-skandia-liv-for-3-25-billion.html
Old Mutual Plc (OML) , the third-biggest
U.K. insurer, plans to sell its Nordic unit to Skandia Liv for
2.1 billion pounds ($3.3 billion) to reduce debt and return
capital to investors. The shares soared.  The cash sale of Skandia Insurance Co. Ltd. includes Old
Mutual’s long-term savings and banking operations in Sweden,
Denmark and  Norway , London-based Old Mutual said today in a
statement. Old Mutual gained 11 percent to 123.7 pence in
London, the biggest rise since March 2009.  “The sale is significantly in excess or our sum-of-the-
parts component for these businesses of 1.4 billion pounds,”
wrote Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Colin Simpson in a note
to investors today. “The company should become significantly
less complex and have less debt.”  Old Mutual,  Africa ’s biggest insurer, bought Skandia AB,
its largest acquisition, in June 2006 for 56 billion kronor ($8
billion) to enter Scandinavia and bolster sales in the U.K.,
where the Stockholm-based company made about half of its
revenue. Skandia Liv, a customer-owned insurance subsidiary of
Old Mutual, will operate independently from its parent following
the deal, which is due to be completed in the first quarter of
next year.  Repay Debt  Old Mutual, which was founded in  Cape Town  in 1845, in
November said it plans to repay 1 billion pounds of debt by the
end of next year after having paid down about 473 million pounds
in July and 31 million pounds in September.  “This transaction represents a material step in the
execution of our restructuring program,” Old Mutual Chief
Executive Officer Julian Roberts said in the statement. “We
intend to use the proceeds from the sale to accelerate the
reduction in group borrowings and return surplus capital arising
from the transaction to shareholders.”  Old Mutual, with operations in  South Africa , the U.K and
the U.S., is selling assets three years after guarantees offered
to policyholders and writedowns on investments, including  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. , forced former CEO Jim Sutcliffe to step
down.  The insurer is planning an initial public offering of its
U.S. asset-management business and in 2010 agreed to sell its
U.S. life insurance unit to  Harbinger Capital Partners  for $350
million. Last year talks broke down to sell a $3.7 billion stake
in  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , a South African bank, to HSBC Holdings
Plc.  New Entity  Skandia Liv will have 2 million customers and manage 440
billion kronor of assets following the purchase, it said in a
separate  statement .  “In the long term we will have a better platform to
improve our offering and competitiveness,” said Bengt-Åke
Fagerman, CEO of Skandia Liv. “The new entity will be an
independent customer-owned alternative to the large banks.”
Fagerman will be CEO of the newly formed Skandia group.  Old Mutual’s U.K. unit won’t be affected by the sale,
Roberts told journalists on a conference call today. The insurer
was advised by Evercore Partners Ltd. and Morgan Stanley.
Skandia Liv was advised by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Lazard Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 