-- Hollywood-Backed Bill on Web Piracy Faces More House Debate
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2011-12-16T03:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/hollywood-backed-bill-on-web-piracy-debated-as-amendments-added.html
House Judiciary Committee Chairman
 Lamar Smith  urged U.S. lawmakers to approve Hollywood-backed
legislation aimed at stopping Internet piracy of movies and
goods that  Google Inc. (GOOG)  opposes as promoting censorship.  Smith’s panel began debating 60 proposed amendments to the
Stop Online Piracy Act today before adjourning with plans to
resume tomorrow. Lawmakers on the panel raised concerns that a
provision on blocking websites may damage the security of the
Internet’s domain-name system and requested a delay to hear
technical testimony.  Lobbying by the entertainment and Internet industries
intensified ahead of today’s hearing. Movie studios, including
Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., want a crackdown on non-U.S.
websites that sell illegally copied films and TV shows. Web
companies say the House measure would harm innovation.  “Laws equip U.S. authorities and rights-holders to take
action against criminals who operate within our borders,”
Smith, a Republican from  Texas , said in an opening statement at
the hearing. “But there is no parallel authority that permits
effective action against criminals who operate from abroad.”  The bill would let the  Justice Department  ask courts to
order Internet-service providers,  search engines , payment
services and advertising networks to block or cease business
with non-U.S. websites trafficking in stolen content or
counterfeit goods.  Internet Executives  A similar measure, the Protect IP Act, was approved by the
Senate Judiciary Committee in May and is awaiting action by the
full Senate.  Sixteen Internet executives, including Google co-founder
 Sergey Brin , PayPal Inc. co-founder  Elon Musk , and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) 
founder Pierre Omidyar, published an open letter to Congress in
major newspapers yesterday saying the House and Senate bills
would give the U.S. government power to censor the Web.  Google, Facebook Inc. and other Internet companies rallied
around an alternative draft bill from Senator  Ron Wyden , an
Oregon Democrat, and Representative  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican, which would make the U.S. International Trade
Commission the arbiter of complaints about non-U.S. websites
linked to piracy.  The proposal from Wyden and Issa “fails to provide an
effective way to target foreign rogue websites and goes easy on
online piracy and counterfeiting,”  Michael O’Leary , senior
executive vice president for global policy and external affairs
at the  Motion Picture Association  of America, said in a
statement last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  