-- Hong Kong Toy Manufacturers’ Sales May Fall in 2012, FHKI Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2011-12-15T11:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/hong-kong-toy-manufacturers-sales-may-fall-in-2012-fhki-says.html
Toy manufacturers in  Hong Kong , who
exported HK$54.9 million ($7.2 million) of toys in the first
nine months of this year, may see their sales fall next year as
demand from the U.S. and Europe stagnates, according to the
 Federation of Hong Kong Industries .  The decline may be “within a few percentage points,”
Yeung Chi-kong, a member of the FHKI and executive vice-
president of the Toys Manufacturers’ Association of Hong Kong,
told reporters today in the city. The toy industry “will worsen
because of unstable economic conditions globally,” he said.  Toy exports from Hong Kong to the U.S.  dropped  by 25
percent in the first nine months of the year, from a year
earlier, according to the Hong Kong Trade Development Council.
Exports to  Europe  rose 17 percent in the same period.  The export outlook for Hong Kong is “austere” as
expanding sales from  emerging markets  won’t be enough to offset
falling sales in Europe,  Japan , and the U.S., the council said
today.  In a survey of toy companies released today by the FHKI,
over 60 percent of respondents said sales this year worsened
from last year and 57 percent said they expect business to
“further deteriorate in 2012.”  Over 90 percent of survey respondents said that new safety
standards imposed by the E.U. in July may have increased their
production cost. “Salaries and material costs will continue to
rise,” Yeung said. “The yuan will definitely continue to
appreciate although the pace might slow,” he said.  Further appreciation of the yuan against the  U.S. dollar 
will erode competitiveness of Hong Kong’s exports, the trade
council said. The yuan has strengthened 3.4 percent against the
dollar this year.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  