-- Moody’s May Cut Ukraine 2012 GDP Growth Forecast to 3%
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2011-12-15T11:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/moody-s-may-cut-ukraine-2012-gdp-growth-forecast-to-3-1-.html
Moody’s Investors Service may cut
Ukraine’s economic-growth forecast for next year to about 3
percent from 4 percent as the faltering global economy crimps
the former Soviet republic’s capital inflows and exports.  “We see several downside risks for this forecast and we
may need to revise it,” Moody’s analyst Thorsten Nestmann said
in a phone interview from  Frankfurt  today. “We are thinking
about cutting it probably to something like around 3 percent.”  Economic growth next year will be driven by demand for
Ukraine’s commodities and strong domestic consumption, Nestmann
said. Ukraine depends “a lot on the global economy,” he said,
after Moody’s cut the rating outlook to “negative.”  Ukraine is relying on a $15.6 billion loan program with the
 International Monetary Fund  to support the national currency and
the state budget. Payouts to Ukraine have been stalled this year
as the government delayed steps to narrow the budget gap by
raising the cost of natural gas and utility services. Officials
are trying to renegotiate the terms of a Russian gas-supply
contract to get a lower price.  “Definitely the risks are increasing, given the lack of a
deal with  Russia ,” Nestmann said.  Ukraine’s credit-rating outlook was changed from stable
today because of funding, liquidity and political stability
risks after the country failed to meet the IMF’s terms on the
bailout deal, Moody’s said in a statement.  Falling Bonds  The revision means Moody’s is more likely to lower the
country’s B2 foreign-currency debt rating, which is five steps
below investment grade.  Ukraine’s 7.95 percent government bonds due in 2021 fell,
pushing the yield up to 10.073 as of 12:20 p.m. in Kiev, the
highest level since Nov. 29, compared with 10.065 yesterday,
Bloomberg data shows.  The authorities will calculate next year’s budget with a
3.9 percent economic growth assumption to meet IMF requirements,
First Deputy Prime Minister Andriy Klyuev said yesterday. They
will also seek to stimulate the domestic market and maintain
growth at this year’s level of 5 percent, he said.  The 2012 budget assumes a price of $416 per 1,000 cubic
meters of imported natural gas, Klyuev said yesterday. If there
is no agreement, controlling the state budget is going to be
“not easy, but manageable,” Klyuev said.  An accord with Russia would play an “important role” in
the development of the current account, Nestmann said.  Liquidity Risks  Foreign-exchange reserves have fallen since August and the
current-account deficit more than doubled in the first 10
months. Liquidity risks have risen “significantly” in
comparison with the end of 2010, Nestmann said.  The government is facing a “significant” increase in debt
repayments next year, which is “of concern” given conditions
on global financial markets, Nestmann said.  Debt repayment, both external and domestic, will be about
$10 billion next year, including central bank payments to the
IMF and the $2 billion loan from VTB Group, Russia’s second-
biggest lender, Nestmann said.  A resumption of the IMF loan program would be positive for
investor sentiment and “help open access to markets” for
Ukraine, Nestmann said. A new gas accord with Russia would also
help “in the short term to improve liquidity”.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  