-- Och-Ziff, Moor Park Are Only Bidders for Catalan Government’s Properties
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2011-12-16T12:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/moor-park-och-ziff-make-joint-bid-for-26-buildings-in-spain-s-catalonia.html
Och-Ziff Management Europe Ltd. and
Moor Park Capital Partners and are the only bidders for 26
buildings that the Spanish region of Catalonia is selling to pay
down debt, according to an e-mail obtained by Bloomberg News.  Catalonia, Spain’s largest regional economy and its most
indebted, is in talks on a joint offer for the office buildings
by the unit of New York-based  Och-Ziff Capital Management (OZM)  and
Moor Park, based in  London , according to the e-mail. The region
aims to sell a total of 37 properties for 550 million euros
($716 million).  The minimum bid that will be accepted is 450 million euros,
and the deadline for closing was extended to Jan. 31 from Dec.
16, the e-mail showed. A spokeswoman for the Catalan government
who declined to be identified confirmed the contents of the e-
mail. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Och-Ziff, declined to
comment. No one at Moor Park was available to comment.  Spanish regions, which control more than a third of public
spending, play a pivotal role in the country’s effort to reduce
its  deficit  to 6 percent of gross domestic product this year
from 9.3 percent in 2010.  Spain  is trying to avoid following Greece, Ireland and
Portugal in requiring a bailout.  Standard & Poor’s  last week put
15 European nations on watch for potential downgrades pending
the outcome of a European Union leaders’ summit, saying it may
lower Spain’s rating by as much as two levels.  Following local elections last year, the incoming
government of Catalonia said the 2010 deficit was 60 percent
wider than its predecessors had acknowledged. It plans a deficit
equal to 2.7 percent of GDP this year, more than twice the
national government goal.  Stock Exchange  The properties to be sold include the Barcelona Stock
Exchange building on Paseo de Gracia, Spain’s fourth-most
expensive commercial street, and the Catalan Agriculture
Ministry on the city’s Gran Via.  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , based in  Chicago , and Madrid-based
real-estate consultant  Aguirre Newman  are advising the
government on the sales.  Catalonia and Andalusia, whose economies match the size of
Portugal and Ireland, have 38.5 billion euros and 13.5 billion
euros of debt respectively, ranking them the first and fourth-
most indebted of Spain’s 17 regions in nominal terms, according
to data from the Bank of Spain. Both regions have included the
future proceeds from the property sales in their 2011 budgets.
Valencia and  Madrid  are the second- and third-most indebted
regions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 