-- OPEC Raises Crude Exports on Libyan Supply, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2011-12-15T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/opec-raises-crude-exports-on-libyan-supply-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will boost crude supply by 0.6 percent this
month as  Libya  raises output, according to tanker-tracker Oil
Movements. Exports from the  Middle East  will drop.  OPEC will pump  23.65 million barrels a day in the four
weeks to Dec. 31, up from the 23.51 million barrels shipped
daily in the month to Dec. 3, the Halifax, England-based
researcher said today in an e-mailed report. The figures exclude
Ecuador and Angola.  “The great surge in Middle East exports in November has
definitely finished,” Roy Mason, founder of Oil Movements, said
by phone. “It’s down to Libya now.”  Exports from Middle Eastern producers, including non-OPEC
members Oman and Yemen, are set to decline to 17.83 million
barrels a day, compared with 17.89 million in the four weeks to
Dec. 3, according to estimates from Oil Movements.  OPEC producers met yesterday in Vienna, agreeing to a
production limit of 30 million barrels a day that includes  Libya 
and  Iraq , both of whom are increasing output. Libyan supply will
return to pre-conflict levels by the third quarter of next year,
Oil Minister Abdul-Rahman Ben Yezza said.  Crude on board tankers will average 486.95 million barrels
in the four-week period, up 0.3 percent from 485.55 million in
the period to Dec. 3, according to today’s report. Oil Movements
calculates shipments by tallying tanker-rental agreements. Its
figures exclude crude held on board ships as floating storage.  OPEC’s members, which pump 40 percent of the world’s oil,
are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,  Iran , Iraq, Kuwait, Libya,
Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates and
Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  