-- Morgan Stanley to Cut About 1,600 Jobs Globally
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2011-12-15T16:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/morgan-stanley-plans-to-cut-about-1-600-jobs-worldwide-in-first-quarter.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , the financial firm
whose shares have declined 45 percent this year, plans to cut
about 1,600 jobs amid an industrywide drop in revenue from
 investment banking  and trading.  Reductions will occur in the first quarter of 2012 at all
levels of the firm, Mark Lake, a company spokesman, said in an
interview today. The figure amounts to about 2.6 percent of the
62,648 employees New York-based Morgan Stanley had at the end of
September.  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  is grappling with
 Europe ’s debt crisis and concern that U.S. economic growth will
slow, reducing demand for trading and investment-banking
services. Morgan Stanley’s revenue from those businesses dropped
36 percent in the third quarter from the previous three months,
excluding accounting adjustments.  The decision to reduce staff comes as “we conduct our
year-end performance-management process and evaluate the right
size of the franchise for 2012,” Lake said.  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets and
owner of the world’s largest brokerage, advanced 0.7 percent to
$15.17 at 11:25 a.m. in New York trading.  Financial firms have disclosed plans to eliminate more than
200,000 jobs globally this year in response to market turmoil,
economic weakness and fallout from Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis. Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest U.S. bank, told
regulators this week it may dismiss 413 employees in  New York
City  as the firm starts eliminating 4,500 jobs.  Smith Barney   Morgan Stanley’s job reductions won’t affect financial
advisers in the firm’s joint venture with New York-based
Citigroup’s Smith Barney, according to a person familiar with
the plans. Morgan Stanley previously said it would eliminate at
least 300 low-producing brokers, and the number of advisers fell
by 828 in the 12 months ended Sept. 30.  The cuts in fixed-income trading will come primarily from
businesses such as securitization that the firm is looking to
shrink as it faces new capital rules, said the person, who
declined to be named because the details haven’t been made
public. The firm won’t eliminate a significant number of jobs in
the interest-rate and foreign-exchange trading businesses that
it expanded in 2009 and 2010, the person said.  Equities trading will likely be less affected by the cuts
than other areas, the person said. Revenue from that business,
excluding accounting adjustments, jumped 29 percent in the first
nine months of this year, the most of any major U.S. firm.  Return on Equity  Gorman said in October that he wasn’t wedded to the current
size of the company and would make necessary cuts if the
slowdown in the  capital markets  was prolonged. Morgan Stanley
had a 6 percent return on average common equity in the first
nine months of the year, below Gorman’s goal of “mid-teens.”  Morgan Stanley said in a June presentation it had begun a
three-year cost-saving project that sought to eliminate $1
billion from annual expenses. The firm increased that target to
$1.4 billion in October.  Revenue from investment banking and trading at the 10
largest global firms fell 12 percent in the first nine months of
this year, after a 23 percent decline in 2010, according to
industry consultant Coalition Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  