-- Los Angeles Dodgers Judge Issues Opinion on Approval to Market TV Rights
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2011-12-16T02:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/los-angeles-dodgers-judge-issues-opinion-on-approval-to-market-tv-rights.html
The judge handling the bankruptcy of
the Los Angeles Dodgers explained his reasons for giving the
 Major League Baseball  team permission to seek buyers for the
rights to televise its future games.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross filed a 20-page opinion
today outlining the grounds for letting the Dodgers speed up the
process for soliciting offers and telling why he overruled
objections from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports unit, which currently
has the TV rights.  Gross ruled at a Dec. 8 hearing in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
that the Dodgers could move forward with their plan to try and
sell the media rights.  It is “disingenuous for Fox now to fight debtors’
marketing procedures which move exclusive, confidential and good
faith negotiations to an earlier date,” Gross wrote, noting
Fox’s negotiations prior to the team’s bankruptcy filing.  “The court’s ruling will enable debtors to seek at present
what they will be unable to obtain later, better telecast terms
-- first exclusively negotiated with Fox -- in conjunction with
the sale of the team, thereby maximizing the value of both,”
the judge wrote.  2014 Season  Fox Sports opposes the plan to market the rights for the
2014 season and beyond, arguing that it can exclusively
negotiate for them until December 2012 and the team can’t
solicit offers from third parties until those exclusive
negotiations end.  Fox has a 45-day exclusive negotiating window, now ending
Jan. 19, the same as under its current contract, just 10 and
half months sooner, Gross said in the filing. Fox appealed this
week, seeking to overturn the ruling.  “The formal opinion issued today by Judge Gross expands on
his order approving the debtors’ amended telecast marketing
rights motion enabling the Dodgers to move forward with the
process to unlock the full potential value of one of the
debtors’ primary assets,” the Dodgers said in a statement.  The Dodgers filed a letter with the U.S. District Court in
Wilmington urging a rejection of Fox’s appeal. The network’s
move is “nothing more than an attempt to delay, and by doing
so, derail, the carefully crafted marketing procedures approved
by the  bankruptcy court ,” according to the Dodgers’ statement.  ‘No Shop’  Gross wasn’t swayed by Fox’s argument claiming its current
contract bars any negotiations before its exclusive period
expires. He wrote that “this ‘no shop’ provision is not
enforceable against a bankruptcy entity,” and that Delaware law
prohibits such clauses because they prevent the company from
fulfilling its “duty to maximize value.”  Gross also rejected Fox’s assertion that the decision could
lead to a large damages claim for breach of contract. He said
“any damages flowing from these changes are highly speculative
and therefore unsubstantiated.”  The team filed for bankruptcy in June with plans to sell
the media rights to pay creditors and allow  Frank McCourt  to
retain his ownership. McCourt later agreed to sell the team
under a deal that ended a fight between Major League Baseball
and the Dodgers.  As part of that effort, the Dodgers needed court permission
to solicit bids on a new media rights contract. The team may be
worth about $1 billion, according to court records filed by the
Dodgers. No sale of the TV rights can go forward without
approval from MLB, Gross and whoever ends up buying the team.  Edwin Desser, a consultant for Fox and president of Desser
Sports Media Inc., said in court last week that the TV rights
could be worth about $100 million a year.  The case is In re  Los Angeles Dodgers  LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 