-- Toshiba Reactor Wins Majority Backing From Feuding U.S. Nuclear Commission
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2011-12-15T19:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/toshiba-reactor-unites-u-s-nuclear-panel.html
(Corrects date for Scana’s second reactor in 15th
paragraph.)  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse
Electric won majority support for the design of its AP1000
reactor from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, even as the
members were feuding publicly over the panel’s leadership.  The NRC issued a notice yesterday that the third of five
commission members voted to certify the design that Southern Co.
and  Scana Corp. (SCG)  plan to use for new units at existing U.S.
nuclear plants.  The action opens the door for a new generation of U.S.
nuclear plants,  Dale Klein , a former NRC chairman, said
yesterday in an interview. The AP1000 also has the potential to
become a “very dominant player in worldwide nuclear
activities,” according to Klein, associate vice chancellor for
research at the University of Texas System in Austin.  Commissioner William Magwood voted Dec. 6 to certify the
design for the AP1000, the commission said. Approval by NRC
Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  and Commissioner George Apostolakis had
been announced earlier this month.  “It is a very encouraging first step on a lengthy road to
the operation of new energy facilities,” Steve Kerekes, a
spokesman for the  Nuclear Energy Institute , a Washington-based
industry group, said in an e-mail.  The full commission hasn’t scheduled a vote on the final
certification rule, a step before companies can win licenses to
build the AP1000 reactor designed by the unit of Tokyo-based
Toshiba. The NRC hasn’t issued a construction license for a U.S.
nuclear plant since a partial meltdown at the Three Mile Island
facility near Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , in 1979.  ‘Extreme Behavior’  Magwood, who joined Jaczko in backing the AP1000, told a
House committee yesterday that the chairman had engaged in
“extreme behavior” by verbally abusing female employees.
Jaczko bullied staff and created a chilled work environment at
the agency, all four of the chairman’s colleagues told the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee that’s examining
discord within the agency.  “Many of these instances that they’re referring to have
been misconstrued,” Jaczko, 41, told lawmakers. “I’ve listened
very carefully to the concerns of my colleagues.”  Jaczko also has said the commission’s majority “loosened
the agency’s safety standards” over his opposition.  Some of the strife has concerned what steps may be needed
to improve the safety of U.S. reactors after an earthquake and
tsunami in March triggered meltdowns and radiation leaks at
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  Possible Changes  Jaczko and Magwood voted to move ahead with the AP1000
while reserving the option of requiring added safeguards later.  “As we develop a regulatory response to Fukushima, it is
certainly possible that some changes may need to be made to the
AP1000 or at least to any” license using the design, Magwood
said in comments attached to his vote.  Major changes probably won’t be required because the AP1000
design already incorporates safety features singled out by an
NRC task force that examined U.S. plant safety after Fukushima,
Andrew Levi, a New York-based utilities and power analyst with
Caris & Co., said in an interview.  “I don’t view them as a big risk at all,” Levi said of
requirements that may be placed on Southern and Scana as the NRC
seeks to prevent cascading failures that doomed Fukushima’s
three reactors.  Southern Co. (SO)  of Atlanta still expects its two new reactors
to begin commercial operation in 2016 and 2017, Steve Higginbottom, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail. Scana’s
reactors are on schedule to start producing power in 2016 and
2019, Rhonda O’Banion, a spokeswoman for the Cayce, South
Carolina-based company, said in an interview.  Design Changes  The NRC must vote final approval for design changes to the
AP1000 reactor, whose concrete-and-steel shell was strengthened
to withstand aircraft strikes, before issuing construction and
operating licenses to the utilities.  Southern has dug foundations for a $14 billion project to
add two reactors to its Vogtle plant, about 26 miles (42
kilometers) southeast of Augusta,  Georgia . Scana plans to build
two reactors for its Virgil C. Summer plant about 26 miles
northwest of Columbia,  South Carolina .  The companies, which have already spent billions of dollars
to lay groundwork for the new plants, can’t begin construction
on buildings to house the new reactors without federal licenses.  License This Year?  Southern expects the NRC to hold a public vote certifying
the AP1000 soon, and the company “remains confident” that the
agency will issue its license “shortly after” the vote,
Higginbottom said.  Scana anticipates “receiving our combined construction and
operating license this year or early 2012,” O’Banion said.  To do so, the other commissioners would need to override
Jaczko’s opposition for the licenses’ expedited approval, which
Southern and Scana requested earlier this year.  The companies “must accept the risk of potential delays”
in the NRC’s rule-making process, Jaczko said in comments
attached to his Dec. 6 vote.  NRC commissioners choose whether to make their votes
public, and individual members of the panel determine when the
votes are released, Scott Burnell, an agency spokesman, said in
a phone interview.  Jaczko had said May 20 that Westinghouse would need to
provide more information about the ability of the AP1000’s
shield building and containment structures to withstand
accidents. NRC staff said Aug. 9 that the design is safe.  Standardized Design  The nuclear industry and investors will be watching closely
to see if Southern and Scana can deliver the four new reactors
on time and on budget, breaking with costly overruns that
plagued nuclear plants built during the 1970s and 1980s, Levi
said.  Unlike the earlier generation of  power plants , Southern and
Scana have the benefit of a standardized reactor design
developed by Westinghouse and lessons learned by Chinese
counterparts who are constructing the first two AP1000 reactors.  “No doubt there’s risk, but it’s manageable,” Levi said.  ‘Wobbly Limb’  The AP1000’s design is inadequate to withstand potentially
high pressure inside the reactor, according to a November report
commissioned by the environmental groups Friends of the Earth,
based in  San Francisco , and the North Carolina Waste Awareness &
Reduction Network. The environmental groups have vowed to block
the AP1000’s construction in the courts unless the NRC
reconsiders the design.  If the NRC issues licenses to Southern and Scana, the
AP1000 reactors will need to be corrected at a cost to taxpayers
and utility customers, Jim Warren, executive director of the
Durham, North Carolina-based organization, said in a phone
interview.  The NRC “is sticking them out on a very wobbly limb if
they try to move forward,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  