-- Forint Gains as Hungary’s Bank Deal Boosts OTP Most in Two Weeks
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2011-12-15T16:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/otp-strengthens-as-hungary-prepares-to-sign-bank-deal-on-loans.html
The forint gained and  OTP Bank
Nyrt. (OTP) ’s shares staged the biggest rally in more than two weeks
as  Hungary  signed a deal with the country’s banks to share the
burden of helping foreign-currency mortgage holders.  The forint appreciated as much as 1.4 percent and traded
1.2 percent stronger at 301.5 per euro. Shares of OTP, Hungary’s
biggest lender, rose 6.2 percent to 3,150 forint by the close in
Budapest, the biggest jump since Nov. 30 and paring its losses
this year to 37 percent. The BUX index, in which OTP has a 26
percent weighting, rose 1.5 percent to 17,024.43.  The agreement with the lenders marks a shift after the
government unilaterally allowed the repayment of foreign-
currency home loans at below market rates in September and
forced banks to swallow the costs. Today’s deal may also help
Hungary secure assistance from the  International Monetary Fund ,
which Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  requested last month,
according to  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   “What is key is that for the first time in a while the two
sides found an agreement,”  Murat Toprak , a London-based
strategist at HSBC, said in a telephone interview today. “This
agreement clearly paves the way for a deal with the IMF. It’s
something which is overall positive for Hungary and the forint
in particular.”  The government and commercial banks have agreed to share
the burden on foreign-currency home loans, Economy Minister
 Gyorgy Matolcsy  told reporters today. Lenders will be able be to
write off the extra burden they take on in foreign-currency
mortgages from the extraordinary tax on banks, Matolcsy added.
The government will also cut the bank tax level by 50 percent
starting in 2013, Matolcsy said.  ‘Total Takeover’  The government is also considering merging the central bank
with the country’s financial regulator. A bill to change the
composition of the central bank’s decision-making bodies shows
Orban is aiming for a “total takeover” of the bank, central
bank President Andras Simor told news website  Index (BUX)  in an
interview published today.  The central bank merger plan creates uncertainty for the
forint after the rally on the government’s agreement with
commercial lenders, Michal Dybula, Warsaw-based central Europe
economist at BNP Paribas SA, wrote in an e-mail today.  “The markets are ignoring the long-run risks to inflation
and other policy areas that require independence,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based economist at Nomura International Plc,
wrote in an e-mail on why Hungarian assets didn’t slump on the
central bank reorganization plans.  ‘Concerned’  The European Commission is “concerned” that Hungary’s
draft central bank law may undermine the independence of the
institution, commission spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  said by e-mail
today.  Hungary will rely on budget reserves, tax increases and
channeling more private pension fund contributions to the budget
to plug a 320 billion-forint ($1.4 billion) hole in next year’s
budget resulting from slower growth and a weaker forint,
Matolcsy said.  The IMF and the European Union may not welcome some of the
“controversial” budget measures, said Zoltan Arokszallasi, a
Budapest-based economist at Erste Group Bank AG.  “All in all however, we view today’s agreement as positive
for the forint,” Arokszallasi wrote in a report, adding that he
forecasts a forint level of 280 against the euro at the end of
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  