-- House Armed Services Chairman Seeks to Avert $55 Billion in Cuts
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2011-12-15T05:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/house-armed-services-chairman-seeks-to-avert-55-billion-in-cuts.html
The chairman of the U.S. House Armed
Services Committee is proposing to avoid about $55 billion of
defense spending cuts in 2013 by reducing the federal workforce.  Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, a California Republican,
introduced legislation yesterday to trim government employment
by 10 percent over 10 years by hiring one  federal employee  for
every three who retire.  The Defense Department faces cuts of as much as $1 trillion
over the next decade after lawmakers on a bipartisan deficit-
reduction panel in November said they were deadlocked on how to
reduce the federal  deficit  by at least $1.2 trillion.  The Pentagon already is cutting about $490 billion from its
budget over the next 10 years under the budget control act
President  Barack Obama  signed into law Aug. 2. The same measure
created the supercommittee.  The deficit panel’s failure to reach an agreement is
supposed to automatically increase the defense cuts by an
additional $500 billion, excluding interest savings, starting in
January 2013.  The prospect of automatic cuts “forces us to break faith
with the men and women who have been at war for a decade now,”
McKeon said in a statement yesterday. “ We can and should have
a national conversation about our role in the world and how our
military is configured. That conversation should come before we
cut the budget, not after.”  Obama last month said he would oppose efforts to find ways
around automatic reductions triggered by the supercommittee’s
failure.  Employee Attrition  McKeon’s plan is designed to save $127 billion through
employee attrition. The lawmaker proposed using $55 billion to
avert  Pentagon cuts  in 2013, another $55 billion to avoid a
year’s worth of automatic cuts in non-defense domestic spending
and $17 billion for deficit reduction.  “The coming political year is likely to be marked with
gamesmanship and brinksmanship,” McKeon said. “My bill gives
Congress a shot at statesmanship. Over half of the deficit
reduction efforts to date have come out of the military.”  Four Senate Republicans yesterday also announced that they
would introduce legislation in January to avoid the automatic
defense cuts. Senators  Jon Kyl  of Arizona,  John McCain  of
Arizona,  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  and Kelly Ayotte of
 New Hampshire  didn’t offer details of the legislation.  McCain, the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services
Committee, said the proposal would include efforts to “improve
efficiencies in defense spending.”  Kyl said the group will seek to find budget savings
identified during a round of talks earlier this year with Vice
President  Joe Biden  and the supercommittee. Lawmakers will
“package those savings into tranches of spending reductions
that can then offset” the required automatic cuts, according to
Kyl.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 