-- House Republicans Push Toward Vote on $1 Trillion Spending Bill
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2011-12-15T08:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/house-republicans-unveil-1-trillion-spending-bill-to-force-vote-on-friday.html
House Republicans  unveiled a $1
trillion spending bill setting budgets for hundreds of
government programs in a bid to force U.S. lawmakers to
wrap up their work for the year.  Republicans aim to put the more than 1,200-page
spending measure to a vote tomorrow, a move designed to
give them an advantage in a separate battle with Democrats
over extending an expiring payroll tax cut.  Passing the spending bill would let Republicans leave
for their Christmas holiday, increasing pressure on the
Democratic-controlled Senate to accept it as well as
Republicans’ version of the payroll tax cut. Democrats have
been holding up the legislation on concerns that approval
would ensure the House recess, forcing them to accept both
measures.  A short-term bill funding federal agencies expires
tomorrow and without action by Congress, the government
will partially shut down. House Appropriations Committee
Chairman Hal Rogers, a Kentucky Republican, said his
colleagues want to break the payroll-tax stalemate.  “Hopefully, the Senate will act,” he told reporters
yesterday. “But you know how they are. We’re not going to
sit around here and wait two weeks, twiddling our thumbs,
waiting for the Senate.”  Short-Term Measure  President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman  Dan Pfeiffer  said
last night in a statement that lawmakers instead ought to
pass a short-term budget measure to allow more time for
negotiations on the budget bill and the payroll-tax plan.  “Given the magnitude of the legislation -- providing
over $1 trillion dollars in funding -- coupled with the
unresolved payroll-tax cut and unemployment insurance
extension, Congress should pass a short-term continuing
resolution,” Pfeiffer said.  Some Republicans expressed qualms about their party’s
strategy. Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican,
said lawmakers will be asked to vote on legislation they
won’t have enough time to read. “It goes against a lot of
what we’ve said we were going to do,” he said.  The party’s campaign “Pledge to America” last year
said “we will end the practice of packaging unpopular
bills with ‘must-pass’ legislation” and “instead, we will
advance major legislation one issue at a time.”  Oil Pipeline  Democrats are balking at some provisions in the House-
passed payroll-tax plan, including plans to expedite
construction of an oil pipeline from  Canada  to  Texas ,
raising Medicare premiums for wealthier retirees and paring
 unemployment benefits .  The spending measure wraps together nine overdue
appropriations bills funding almost 40 percent of the
government, including the Departments of Defense, Labor,
Education,  Homeland Security ,  Veterans Affairs  and others.  Some House Republicans said yesterday they are unsure
how many of their colleagues will support the budget plan,
which has been criticized for spending too much. More than
100 Republicans, 40 percent of the chamber’s caucus,
opposed a spending bill last month, forcing party leaders
to rely on Democratic votes for passage.  Representative Tim Huelskamp, a Kansas Republican,
said yesterday he was withholding judgment because he
wasn’t sure what would be in the legislation, which was
released early today.  ‘See What’s In It’  “I’m not going to vote for something unless I have a
pretty good idea of what’s in it and right now, we don’t,”
Huelskamp said. “I’ve got to see what’s in it.”  The budget bill, combined with a related bill passed
last month, would cap non-emergency discretionary spending
at $1.043 trillion, according to the Republicans’ summary.
That would be $7 billion less than last year and the second
consecutive year appropriations have declined.  The cuts are larger when compared with inflation,
currently 3.5 percent, and the increased demand for
government services that comes with  population growth .  More than half of the bill is comprised of the Defense
Department’s budget, which would increase by $5 billion or
about 1 percent to $518 billion. That doesn’t include an
additional $115 billion in emergency war funding.  Foreign Aid  Some of the biggest cuts would come in foreign aid and
international programs, one of the politically easiest
areas to cut. Funding for the State Department, global
health programs, economic assistance and other initiatives
would fall by 13 percent, according to Republicans.  Pell grants , which help low-income families send
children to college, would be cut by $11 billion over the
next decade in part by tightening eligibility criteria.  The Environmental Protection Agency would see a 3
percent cut, which, when combined with reductions approved
earlier this year, would mean an 18 percent cut from 2010,
according to Republicans. The Government Accountability
Office, the investigative arm of Congress, would receive a
6 percent cut.  The bill also includes a number of policy “riders”
including ones targeting the administration’s policies on
travel and sending money to Cuba, energy-efficient  light
bulbs  and public funding of abortions in Washington, D.C.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  