-- Overpaid Yankees Found With New Data Tool Also Used to Find Health Trends
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2011-12-15T20:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/overpaid-yankees-found-with-new-data-tool-also-used-to-find-health-trends.html
Maybe Brian Cashman, the  New York 
Yankees general manager who refused to dip into this year’s
high-priced pool of baseball free agents, kind of knew this
already. Now there are numbers to back up the suspicion.  The Yankees’ players were the most overpaid in pro baseball
in 2008 compared with their individual performance, according to
a new data evaluation tool developed by researchers at  Harvard
University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts. And if you’re a Yankees
fan suspicious of where the study came from, calm down. The key
researchers grew up in  Maryland .  The new method is designed to spot patterns in information
with hundreds of variables, according to a study in the journal
 Science . The tool was tested in studies on obesity trends, gene
expression in yeast, and baseball salaries and performance. The
Milwaukee Brewers,  Tampa Bay Rays ,  Chicago Cubs  and  St. Louis
Cardinals  had the best ratios, the study found.  “With a big dataset, you need a reliable measure to look
for relationships without studying pictures one by one,” said
Terry Speed, the author of an editorial that accompanied the
study, and a statistician at the  University of California ,
Berkeley. “It’s a very nerdy thing. I would guess that a lot of
people looking at relationships between financial variables
might be interested in this.”  The new method allows computers to act in a manner that
mimics the ability of the human eye to identify clumps of
things, only in large amounts of data, said  Yakir Reshef , a
study author who was a Harvard undergraduate when he began the
research. While existing data programs require scientists to
tell computers precisely what they’re seeking, the new tool
allows computers to find unknown relationships more easily, he
said.  Public Health   Using information from the  World Health Organization  in
Geneva, the researchers discovered a trend, in the shape of a
parabolic curve, showing that the poorest and richest were
skinnier than middle-income people.  There was also a second trend in the data corresponding
with Pacific Island nations where female obesity is a sign of
status. In those countries, the rate of obesity rose steeply as
 household income  increased.  The researchers piled together all kinds of baseball data,
and ran it using their new method. They found an existing
statistic in baseball, called Replacement Level Marginal Lineup
Value, was among the closest correlate to player pay. That
statistic measures the aggregate number of runs per game a
player is responsible for, compared with an average player in an
average lineup, the authors said.  Highest Payroll  After the program was completed, it turned out the Yankees
were at the bottom of the pile in 2008, a year in which they
carried major league baseball’s highest payroll at $209 million
yet failed to make the postseason for the first time since 1993.  The next year, in 2009, Cashman spent millions to bring in
first baseman Mark Teixeira and pitcher CC Sabathia to raise the
Yankees’ performance level, and won the  World Series .  “We checked this out because we liked baseball a lot,”
said Reshef, who is now a Fulbright scholar at the Weizmann
Institute of Science in  Israel , in a telephone interview. “When
we saw this statistic as being strongly related to player
salary, we broke it down by team to see who was overpaid and who
was overperforming.”  The analytic tool was developed by Reshef; his brother
David, a graduate student at the Harvard-MIT Health Sciences and
Technology Program; and scientists from the Broad Institute in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , where Harvard is based.  This new method of analysis will be very important for
other areas with large datasets, such as those generated by
political science, economics or physics, Speed said. Economics
and markets may be an ideal area for research, Reshef said.  “One of the things we’ve always been curious about is what
does this look like if you use it on financial data,” Reshef
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 