-- Hovnanian Loss Narrows as Homebuilder Reports Decline in Costs, Writedowns
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2011-12-15T14:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/hovnanian-loss-narrows-as-homebuilder-reports-decline-in-costs-writedowns.html
Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , the
largest homebuilder in  New Jersey , reported a narrower fourth-
quarter loss as the company cut costs and reduced writedowns
amid slumping demand for new homes.  Hovnanian’s net loss for the three months ended Oct. 31 was
$98.3 million, or 90 cents a share, compared with $132.1
million, or $1.68, a year earlier, the Red Bank-based company
said today in a statement.  Hovnanian, the  worst-performing  homebuilder stock this
year, has depleted cash as it tries to boost margins by buying
land at distressed prices. Sales of new U.S.  homes  are being
limited by competition from lower-priced foreclosures and an
 unemployment  rate of 8.6 percent.  “Regardless of what the earnings are, the key metric is
how many homes have they sold,” Steve Blitz, senior economist
at ITG Investment Research Inc. in  New York , said yesterday by
telephone. “Their long-term survival is much more dependent on
a turnaround in the U.S. housing market than their competitors
because they’re much more highly leveraged.”  The company’s debt-to-capital ratio was 130 percent in the
previous quarter, compared with 61 percent for the 13 companies
in Bloomberg’s homebuilder index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries.  Hovnanian’s fourth-quarter revenue declined to $341 million
from $353 million a year earlier. Net contracts increased 3
percent to 1,175 homes from a year earlier.  The results included $63.2 million in land-related
impairments, down from $80.6 million a year earlier.  Hovnanian reported earnings before the open of regular U.S.
trading. The shares fell 4.9 percent yesterday to $1.36. They
have dropped 67 percent this year, compared with a 28 percent
decrease in the Bloomberg homebuilder index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 