-- Pakistan Shuts Karachi-Kabul Route After Boom
-- B y   S h a h a n   M u f t i
-- 2011-12-15T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/pakistan-shuts-karachi-kabul-trade-route-after-u-s-fueled-boom.html
Mohammad Shakir Afridi has watched
U.S. troop levels in  Afghanistan  since the first Americans
landed in the country 10 years ago. As president of the Khyber
Transport Association, one of the largest groups of truck owners
in Pakistan, Afridi’s biggest contract involves moving military
equipment for American and coalition forces through Pakistan to
military bases in Afghanistan. The slightest policy shift in
 Washington  can carry consequences for Afridi and his business.  Sitting on a rooftop in a residential block in Peshawar,
the largest city in northwest Pakistan, Afridi slaps the morning
paper on the floor beside his mat. “Twenty-four of our boys in
one go,” he spits out. A front page photograph shows a field
full of coffins draped in Pakistani flags. The soldiers were
killed on Nov. 26 when U.S. helicopters and jet fighters from
Afghanistan fired on military outposts on the Pakistani side of
the border. The relationship between Pakistan and the U.S. hit a
new low, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Dec. 19 issue.  While the U.S. military promised to investigate and the
NATO chief regretted the “tragic, unintended” incident, the
Pakistani Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  said there would be
“no more business as usual” with the U.S. Pakistan demanded
the U.S. vacate an airbase it was using in the South and choked
off all U.S. and coalition military supplies traveling through
the country.  Americans ‘Sweat’  Afridi learned of the American attack before the Pakistan
military or government had issued any statement. One of his
truck drivers called to tell him the border was closed. Afridi
was later given orders from the military to halt trucks near the
border, and to direct all others to the southern port city of
Karachi. “It’s serious this time,” Afridi says. “They’ll make
the Americans sweat.”  U.S. and Allied forces in Afghanistan get the bulk of their
supplies in two ways. The first is the Northern Distribution
Network, a web through Central and Eastern Europe and Central
Asia that crosses through at least 16 countries, using a
combination of roads, railway, air, and water to move supplies
in from the north.  One path through the network might involve military cargo
that arrives by sea in Istanbul. From there it travels the width
of  Turkey  on truck and crosses the northern border into Poti,
 Georgia . In Georgia the equipment goes by rail to Baku in
 Azerbaijan , where it’s loaded onto a ship bound for the Kazakh
Port of Aktau, across the Caspian Sea. Then it’s put on trucks
for the 1,000-mile ride through  Kazakhstan , then a train through
Kyrgyzstan and, finally, into Afghanistan.  Primary Path  The second passage to Afghanistan, known as Pakistani Lines
of Communication, begins at the port of Karachi and continues on
one of two land routes, north toward the hub at Bagram Airfield
or west towards Kandahar. It has always been the primary option
for American forces. It’s the shortest and cheapest, requires
only one border crossing, and minimal time on the road inside
Afghanistan.  Nearly 60,000 trucks drive more than 1,200 miles through
the length of Pakistan every year carrying supplies and fuel.
According to varying figures provided by U.S. and NATO forces,
40 percent to 60 percent of all military supplies used by
coalition forces in Afghanistan come through Pakistan.  Afridi, 46, is from the Khyber Agency, one of the seven
Pakistani tribal sectors along the border with Afghanistan. The
Pashtun has a salt and pepper beard and wears a white shalwar
kameez and a black vest. The only thing that makes him stand out
from similarly dressed men on the streets of  Peshawar  are his
dark glasses and a cell phone that never stops ringing.  Family Business  Even Afridi wouldn’t have dreamed of such a life a decade
ago. His grandfather started the family transport business in
the 1960s, buying trucks to move melons, grapes, and wheat from
the Punjab in Pakistan to largely arid Afghanistan. Afridi
inherited the business in the 1980s. In 1996 he added a few
tanker trucks to his fleet after signing a contract with
Pakistan State Oil to transport fuel from refineries in Karachi.  When the U.S. invaded Afghanistan and coalition forces
moved in to occupy the landlocked country, Afridi’s business
took off. He says he runs a fleet of nearly 4,000 flatbeds and
more than 3,000 fuel tankers that haul military supplies into
Afghanistan.  The fallout from the Nov. 26 friendly fire incident means
Afridi’s business is at a standstill, indefinitely. Still, he
thinks the Pakistanis have done the right thing. He says he
hates the sight of the American flag, and stands “shoulder to
shoulder” with Pakistan’s army.  Longest Border  Of Afghanistan’s neighbors, Pakistan has the longest border
and has historically wielded the most influence. It also
provides the nearest seaport to Kabul. The U.S. has poured more
than $20 billion into the country over the past decade.  “If we want to be successful in Afghanistan,” as General
James L. Jones Jr., former National Security Advisor to
President  Barack Obama , said in recent congressional testimony,
“the roads to that success have a lot to do with Pakistan.”  The U.S. has worked to find an alternative. The Northern
Distribution Network, running through  Europe  and Central Asia,
was developed in 2009. That was after the U.S. troop surge in
Afghanistan had begun the previous year. Today around half of
U.S. military supplies to Afghanistan come in from the north,
but the northern network comes with its own set of challenges.
About 10 percent to 20 percent of supplies are flown in.  Vulnerable to Attack  Besides being long and costing three times as much to use
as the Pakistani route, it’s vulnerable to attack. Only days
before the closure of the Pakistani Lines of Communication, a
Russian  news agency  reported an explosion along the northern
supply route in Uzbekistan.  Russia ’s influence spreads across much of the northern
route, which can cause complications. In 2009, for example,
after Kyrgyzstan threatened to eject the U.S. from the Manas Air
Base, a key node in the supply chain, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said Russia was “working against us.” Two days after the
Pakistanis closed the supply route in November, and the U.S. was
left with only the northern route, Russia’s NATO envoy made
loosely veiled threats at closing off the northern supply line
as well if NATO didn’t begin to rethink its European missile
defense shield.  Many countries along the northern route still don’t allow
the passage of foreign military gear, so  Pakistan  was the only
way for the U.S. to move nearly all of its combat equipment. At
a congressional hearing in May, Lieutenant General Mitchell H.
Stevenson, the U.S. Army’s Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics,
was asked what the “long term impact” would be if the supply
route through Pakistan was “suddenly shut down.” After
explaining that the Army kept a 45-day supply of reserve fuel on
the ground in Afghanistan, the general said they could only
“last several weeks” without any significant impact.  Pakistan’s Response  According to Abdul Sattar, Pakistan’s foreign minister from
1999 to 2002, the evening after the attacks on the World Trade
Center and Pentagon in 2001, General Pervez Musharraf, who then
ruled Pakistan as an unelected Chief Executive, called a meeting
at the military’s General Headquarters in Rawalpindi. He wanted
to discuss his country’s response to the inevitable U.S. call
for cooperation.  Abdul Sattar, one of only two people at that meeting not
affiliated with the military, says that by midnight the group
had decided on the outlines of Pakistan’s official response to
the U.S. in case of a war in Afghanistan. Sattar suggested a
“Yes, but...” approach to Musharraf, meaning Pakistan should
agree in principle to whatever reasonable demands the U.S. would
make, then secure strategic advantages while negotiating the
fine details.  Military Supply  Sattar was soon sidelined though, as were many others, and
decision-making shifted into an insulated and small circle of
generals closest to the dictator. “I would not hear much after
that, a memo here or there, months after the fact,” says Sattar,
now retired and living in Islamabad.  Pakistan’s highway network would be the route along which
the U.S. military’s supply chain would run. On this issue,
Pakistan had taken the “Yes, but…” path. The country did not
allow American military vessels on its waters. The U.S.
Transport Command gave contracts to international shipping lines
such as  Singapore ’s APL, the Danish company Maersk, and
 Germany ’s Hapag-Lloyd. Since the beginning of the war, APL has
received more than $700 million in defense-related contracts and
has moved more than 300,000 shipping containers for the U.S.
military. Maersk has won nearly $2 billion in contracts. The
goods transported through Pakistan include everything from
blankets and microwave dinners to armored Humvees and Kevlar
vests.  Local Truckers  Getting all the overseas  crude oil  and other supplies to
the port city of Karachi has proven to be the easy part. Once
the cargo is unloaded in Karachi, the international shipping
lines subcontract the job of getting it to Afghanistan to local
agencies. Those agencies in turn hire local truckers like Shakir
Afridi. And so the lifeline for one of the largest deployments
of U.S. forces in American history falls into the hands of a
loose association of truck drivers and owners from Pakistan’s
tribal areas.  The center of the transport business in Karachi is in
Shireen Jinnah Colony. Flatbed trucks are assembled on the side
of the road. In the background, oil refineries pump smoke into
the air. From a small room in an office block abutting the Port
of Karachi, Muntazir Afridi, Shakir’s younger brother, deals
with the southern end of the Afridi family business.  Cultural Ties  The trucking industry in Karachi is in the hands of the
city’s large minority Pashtun population. Mostly immigrants from
Peshawar and the tribal areas on the Afghan frontier, the
Pashtuns arrived in the 1950s and 1960s looking for jobs.
Largely uneducated and 1,000 miles from home, they slowly
acquired transport contracts to supply Pakistan’s north. Their
cultural ties to Afghanistan’s majority Pashtun population made
them favorites for transport jobs for Afghan trade. In a city
where ethnic groups battle over slices of the local economy, two
tribes in particular have agrip on the trucking business: the
Shinwaris and the Afridis.  Taped to the wall in Muntazir Afridi’s office are photos of
the holy mosque in Mecca and the prophet’s mosque in Medina.
“In Bombay they have their  film industry ,” Muntazir proclaims.
“In Karachi we have the trucking industry.”  Muntazir is in his mid-20s and dressed, like his brother,
in a plain white shalwar kameez. He points outside where
stretching for miles is a patchwork of hundreds of  oil tankers 
and flatbed trucks. “On a regular day they would all be on the
move like ants,” Muntazir says.  Military Boom  The Afridi family is one of hundreds that have enjoyed the
boom from American military supplies through Pakistan after 2001.
The gold rush started with the troop surge in Afghanistan that
began soon after Obama won the election in 2008. When he took
office there were just over 30,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan.
By January 2010, the number had more than doubled to nearly
70,000. In May of this year, troop levels peaked at nearly
100,000.  More troops meant more supplies. Figures issued by the
Pakistan Federal Tax Ombudsman show the spike in traffic at
Karachi’s port. U.S. military equipment received at the port
rose from nearly 16,000 shipping containers in 2005 to more than
54,000 in 2009. Halfway through 2010 the U.S. military had
already shipped nearly 30,000 containers to Karachi.  In Pakistan the demand for trucks skyrocketed. “Everyone
who had nothing to lose took out a loan and bought a truck,”
Muntazir says. He invited many of his extended relatives from
the tribal areas to come to Karachi and start driving.  Missing Trucks  The local “third party vendor” transport companies, to
whom the international shipping lines subcontracted, were so
desperate for drivers that Muntazir says they began lending
money to people they had just met, so they would buy a truck and
get supplies moving. “There was just no way the companies would
be able to deal with truckers,” Muntazir says. “They couldn’t
keep track of a thing.” Entire truckloads started going missing.  This is where Shakir, the elder brother, began to do work
he describes as “brokering,” placing himself between truck
owners and the local transport companies. He takes
responsibility for the cargo and ensures it gets to U.S. and
other ISAF forces in Afghanistan. Acting as a guarantor, Afridi
receives a cut from the logistics companies when the cargo is
picked up and again when it’s dropped off. The work has proved
so profitable that Afridi has sold his entire fleet.  Increased Attacks  In November 2008, Hakimullah Mehsud, a commander of the
newly formed Taliban Movement of Pakistan, invited the news
media to Orakzai, a tribal agency in Pakistan, for his first
press conference. Mehsud arrived riding in a brand new armored
U.S. military Humvee. He told reporters he had captured a few
American vehicles after attacking and looting a military convoy
traveling through Pakistan. He boasted he would increase these
attacks.  Such attacks started at the same time as the U.S. troop
surge in late 2008. Fuel tankers began getting torched regularly
and shipping containers were ripped open, looted, and left empty
along highways. In the local press, Pakistani military officials
told of groups in the tribal areas stealing helicopter parts.
Militants who couldn’t get to the trucks took to bombing bridges
and roads along the route, at times shutting the supply route
for days.  The supply line was not just vulnerable to militants. In
the past several years, the Pakistani and American visions for
Afghanistan’s future have diverged so far that the relationship
has turned hostile. Pakistan first cut off NATO’s supplies in
September 2008, in response to the first-ever reported incursion
of U.S. troops into Pakistan. Two months later, after a drone
aircraft targeted Pakistan’s settled nontribal lands for the
first and only time, 160 NATO trucks were burned in a nightlong
rampage in Peshawar.  Vanishing Cargo  Many believed the event was staged by the Pakistani
military and meant to send a clear signal. Vice Admiral Mark D.
Harnitchek, deputy commander of the U.S. Transportation Command,
said in a 2009 speech that 12 percent of the freight bound for
Bagram in December 2008 had disappeared.  The supply line has been under consistent fire ever since.
In 2009 there were 25 attacks on NATO supply lines in Pakistan,
according to the South Asia Terrorism Portal, an online database
tracking terror incidents in the region. In 2011, before the
supply line was closed in November, there had already been a
total of 111 reported incidents, destroying hundreds of supply
vehicles. Even in times of calm, the Pakistani military has had
its hand on the valve, as it alone decides how many trucks
carrying U.S. military equipment to let through on any given day.  Driver’s Role  The spike in attacks is partly because of drivers and truck
owners. Drivers, discouraged by the high risks involved, have
taken to selling their loads of fuel on the black market, then
setting fire to the tankers and collecting insurance money.
Though the scam is a pain for the brokers, Muntazir says he
feels for the truckers. “These guys risk their lives, and they
get what? Thirty thousand, maybe forty thousand rupees for a
trip?” That’s about four hundred dollars.  In June 2010, after an unsourced news report on Pakistani
television said nearly 11,000 Afghanistan-bound shipping
containers that had arrived in Karachi had gone missing, the
 Supreme Court  of Pakistan asked another agency, the Federal Tax
Ombudsman’s office, to investigate. The case went to Shoaib
Suddle, a career police officer and Karachi’s police chief at
the height of a war between several ethnic groups in the mid-
1990s. He has a doctorate in white-collar criminology from the
University of Wales and has also served as the chief of
Pakistan’s Intelligence Bureau.  Detailed Records  Suddle found that private container terminals in Karachi
were keeping detailed records of the exact time containers would
depart and return. Some trucks would never check back in. But
thousands of mostly empty trucks were coming back too soon,
sometimes a few hours after departing for Afghanistan.  “We found the mother of all scams,” Suddle said. In a
report published by his office earlier this year, he described
complex transnational networks bribing local customs agents and
using crooked bureaucrats in Pakistan to forge documents and
create fake companies. The intent of that corruption was to get
goods labeled as Afghanistan-bound into the country, and then
divert them for resale on the black market.  Suddle estimated that at least 7,992 shipping containers
had never reached Afghanistan. The report called this “the tip
of the iceberg.” A follow-up investigation, also ordered by the
Pakistani Supreme Court, revealed that close to 29,000 cargo
loads have gone missing in the country. There is no way of
knowing precisely what disappeared.  Military Cargo  While many of these containers were loaded with commercial
cargo destined for Afghanistan, military equipment for coalition
forces accounts for nearly 40 percent of all trade to
Afghanistan through Pakistan. Pakistan’s Federal Board of
Revenue estimates that 3,300 shipping containers full of
military equipment were among those missing.  According to an agreement between the Pakistani and British
ministries of defense signed in June 2002, Pakistan allows ISAF
military equipment to arrive in Pakistan without inspection. The
U.S. military is not required to file a customs declaration form
describing contents inside shipping containers.  In the Khyber Agency, not far from Peshawar, the
hemorrhaging U.S. supply line stocks a long bazaar the locals
call Karkhano Market. Among the corrugated-iron storefronts,
middle-aged women are shopping for “USA” branded oil and soap
bars with the American flag printed on them. Fighters drop in
from Afghanistan to sample the latest in the military technology
available on roadside tables.  Military Manuals  Alongside old British rifles and Soviet AK-47s, American
military gear like Kevlar vests, boots, camouflage suits, night-
vision goggles, and knives hang from hooks. Tall stacks of large
boxes carrying ammunition and weapons parts will not be opened
without a good reference. In the bargain bins, thrown in with
used fleece socks and shrink-wrapped copies of The Book of
Mormon, are U.S. military operation manuals that restrict
distribution to “DoD and DoD contractors only,” and carry
instructions to destroy “by any method that must prevent
disclosure of contents or reconstruction of documents.”  A sign for a shop on the second floor reads, “Haji M.
Ikhlas USA traders,” with crude paintings of a U.S. military
helmet and army boots. In 2009 a U.S. military laptop that the
U.S. Army’s 864th Engineer Combat Battalion used for diagnostics
and maintenance of military weapons systems and vehicles was
found in this same market.  Shopkeepers say that much of their stock comes from
Afghanistan or is brought in from elsewhere in Pakistan.  Back inside the city limits of Peshawar, Shakir Afridi is
attending a lunch at the house of a truck owner he represents.
There are more than a dozen guests, some of whom introduce
themselves as truck owners, others as drivers. There are local
officials from towns along the supply route and representatives
from the transporters’ union.  Praying for End  Afridi sits at the head of a spread of goat meat and Kabuli
pulao rice. “When I was in Mecca last month, I prayed and
begged Allah to finish this war,” he says, sinking his teeth
into a leg of goat, coated in dripping salty fat. A truck owner
sitting next to him pours himself a glass of Pepsi and passes
Afridi his phone. He wants to share a photograph of one of his
drivers, whose eyes had been gouged out, he explains, by Taliban
who attacked his truck as he drove along the western route to
Kandahar. “This is a dirty, dirty business,” says Afridi
shaking his head sadly.  Afridi says he’s not worried about revenue should the war
end. He’s confident other contracts will come through. After all,
he’s been cooperating with Pakistan’s military for years now,
“standing shoulder to shoulder.” He thinks Pakistan will start
moving goods into Central and  East Asia . Most important, he is
convinced that “Allah, not America, is the one who provides
sustenance to man.”  No Apology  As Pakistan and the U.S. drift apart, Afridi’s prayers for
an end to the war may soon be answered. As of Dec. 13, the
supply route remains closed. President Obama has ordered a
military investigation into the events of Nov. 26. While Obama
has called President Asif Ali Zardari to offer condolences, the
U.S. has yet to apologize.  “America has been trying to get out of this for years
now,” says Afridi as he pushes away his empty plate and sticks
a toothpick in his mouth. Dessert and green tea are served. “We
have them so badly hemmed in that they can’t go anywhere.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Aley at   jaley@bloomberg.net  