-- Pakistan Military: U.S. Ignored Warnings in Border Attack
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2011-12-15T22:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/pakistan-military-u-s-ignored-warnings-in-border-attack.html
Pakistan’s military, giving its
account of a Nov. 26 border clash that left 24 of its soldiers
dead, said the U.S. continued its aerial attack on their posts
even after commanders knew they were hitting the wrong targets.  The NATO-led coalition in  Afghanistan  couldn’t have
confused known Pakistani border posts with militant positions
and started the mission without waiting for a response on
whether any friendly forces were in the area, a Pakistani
defense official told reporters at his embassy in  Washington 
today.  The bombardment also continued for more than an hour after
a coalition commander said the aircraft had been ordered to
withdraw, the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.  The media briefing, held a week before the U.S. is due to
issue a report on its investigation of the incident, was similar
to one provided to reporters by Pakistani military headquarters
in Rawalpindi and was based on a review of events that night,
the official said.  U.S. expressions of regret and pledges to get to the bottom
of what happened failed to satisfy Pakistani leaders faced with
street protests and calls for a full apology.  Pakistan  shut two
border crossings into Afghanistan that the NATO-led coalition
relies on for about a quarter of its supplies, and temporarily
withdrew personnel from border coordination centers.  “We are very firmly committed to understanding what
happened here,” State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
told reporters in Washington today. “We invited the Pakistanis
to participate with us in the investigation, and, frankly, that
would have been the best way for them to have eyes on and to
ensure the credibility of what we were up to.”  Year of Tension  The incident heightened a year of tension between the U.S.
and Pakistan over the shooting of two Pakistani men by a CIA
contract employee,  Raymond Davis , in Lahore and the secret raid
that killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in a Pakistani
garrison town.  Pakistan refused to participate in a joint investigation
with the U.S., as has been conducted after such incidents
previously. The Pakistani defense official said his country’s
leaders were frustrated that findings in four earlier cases
never resulted in disciplinary action against American
personnel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  