-- Panetta Says U.S. Will Have Robust Presence in Middle East
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2011-12-15T14:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/panetta-says-u-s-will-have-robust-presence-in-middle-east-1-.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
joined Iraqi officials in Baghdad today to mark the end of the
almost nine-year American mission in the country.  “The dream of an independent and sovereign  Iraq  is now a
reality,” Panetta said in a televised speech at the Baghdad
International Airport. The U.S. and Iraq will have a “new
relationship rooted in mutual interest and mutual respect.”  Iraq is capable of taking over the security
responsibilities and must stand firm in the face of challenges
ahead, Panetta said, adding that “Iraq will be tested in the
days ahead by terrorism, by those who would seek to divide, by
economic and social issues, by the demands of democracy
itself.”  Iraqi and U.S. officials discussed extending the American
military presence, to continue training of Iraq’s security
forces. The talks failed to reach agreement on legal issues
including immunity from prosecution for U.S. troops.  Iraq’s government points out that violence is down from
peak levels in 2006, when the country tipped toward civil war,
and says its forces are able to assure domestic security.  The flag of U.S. Forces-Iraq was wrapped around a flagpole
and covered in camouflage during the  Baghdad  ceremony, in
accordance with Army tradition, and will be carried back to the
U.S.  War Deaths  More than 100,000 Iraqis have been killed since the
invasion in March 2003, according to the Iraq Body Count
website. More than 1 million Americans served in Iraq at some
time during military action that Pentagon figures show cost
almost 4,500 American lives, with more than 32,000 wounded.  Panetta said the U.S. will continue to have a “robust”
military presence in the  Middle East  even as it withdraws from
Iraq. There are currently about 4,000 U.S. troops still in Iraq,
down from 170,000 at the height of the invasion.  When the pullout is complete, the U.S. presence will be at
the embassy in Baghdad, with an array of diplomats, military
advisers and contractors.  “You will leave with great pride -- lasting pride,”
Panetta told the troops. “Secure in knowing that your sacrifice
has helped the Iraqi people to begin a new chapter in history.”  -- Editors: Steven Komarow, Bob Drummond  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  