-- Paulson’s Bright Spot May Fade as Gold Plunges
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2011-12-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/paulson-s-bright-spot-amid-slump-may-fade-as-gold-drops-to-five-month-low.html
John Paulson , the hedge-fund manager
enduring the worst year in his career, may be facing a final
blow from this month’s selloff in gold, an investment that
mitigated losses at his $28 billion firm earlier in 2011.  The  SPDR Gold Trust (GLD)  exchange-traded fund, of which Paulson
was the largest shareholder as of Sept. 30, fell 10 percent from
the end of last month, and all eight of his gold stocks slumped
with a 9.6 percent decline for bullion. The declines would
translate into a $672.1 million paper loss on those securities
for Paulson & Co., assuming his holdings haven’t changed since
the end of the third quarter, when the firm reported its equity
stakes in a regulatory filing.  Until this month, gold had been the bright spot for Paulson
& Co. clients, who can choose to invest in gold-denominated
shares of the  hedge funds . Gains in bullion had alleviated
losses of 46 percent, in the dollar share class, for one of the
firm’s biggest funds this year through November. Paulson also
offers a dedicated Gold Fund, its best performer this year.  “With the dramatic moves of gold and the recent decline
from its peak, I think some investors will be deciding whether
they want to continue to invest in that share class,” said Don
Steinbrugge, managing partner of Agecroft Partners LLC, a
Richmond, Virginia-based firm that advises hedge funds and
investors.  Scaling Back  Paulson, who turned 56 yesterday, has lost money this year
on investments including Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp.
and  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese forestry company accused by
short-seller Carson Block of overstating timberland holdings.
Paulson cut the so-called net exposure in his main funds to 30
percent last month and reduced bullish bets across all his funds
on stocks including gold companies.  Net exposure is calculated by subtracting the percentage of
a fund’s short positions, or bets on falling securities, from
its longs, or wagers on rising stocks and bonds.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson, declined to comment
on the firm’s potential gold-related losses.  Paulson & Co. held shares of SPDR Gold Trust and eight gold
companies in the third quarter, according to its 13F filing. The
firm, which uses the ETF to denominate the gold share classes of
his funds, pared its stake in the gold trust to 20.3 million
shares from 31.5 million as of June 30.  The firm was the largest holder of American depositary
receipts in  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the third-biggest gold
producer. Paulson also owned shares or ADRs of  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ,
 NovaGold Resources Inc. (NG) ,  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) ,  Agnico-Eagle
Mines Ltd. (AEM) ,  Iamgold Corp. (IMG) ,  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  International
Tower Hill Mines Ltd. (THM)   200-Day Average  Gold’s plunge to a five-month low sent it below its 200-day
moving average for the first time in almost three years,
signaling more declines to traders who follow technical
analysis. Bullion fell below $1,600 an ounce yesterday to settle
at the lowest level in five months as a stronger dollar curbed
demand for the metal as an alternative asset. Gold futures for
February delivery dropped 4.6 percent to settle at $1,586.90 at
1:44 p.m. on the Comex in  New York , the lowest closing level
since July 13. The 200-day moving average was near $1,613.  The metal was up about 12 percent in 2011 and still heading
for an 11th straight annual gain, the longest winning streak in
at least nine decades. It has outperformed commodities, global
equities and Treasuries.  11% Gain  The Paulson Gold Fund, which can buy derivatives and other
gold-related investments, rose 11 percent in this year’s first
11 months.  Paulson’s biggest funds, Advantage Plus and Advantage, seek
to profit from corporate events such as takeovers and
bankruptcies and have $11 billion in combined assets. The
Advantage Plus Fund fell 46 percent in 2011 in its dollar shares
and 29 percent in its gold shares. The Advantage Fund lost 32
percent in its dollar class and 13 percent in its gold class.  The Paulson Partners Enhanced Fund, which invests in the
shares of merging companies, decreased 18 percent in its dollar
class and 0.9 percent in its gold class.  The Recovery Fund, which invests in assets Paulson believes
will benefit from a long-term economic upturn, declined 28
percent in its dollar shares and 12 percent in its gold class.
Paulson has been betting on a U.S. economic recovery by the end
of 2012.  Paulson’s Credit Opportunities Fund dropped 18 percent in
its dollar shares and gained 0.3 percent in its gold shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  