-- Payroll-Tax Impasse Sets Off Workers’ Bipartisan Wrath at U.S. Lawmakers
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2011-12-15T20:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/payroll-tax-impasse-ignites-workers-bipartisan-anger-at-u-s-lawmakers.html
Troy Brook said it’s time to
redeploy the forces mobilizing against  Wall Street  to focus on
Congress’s logjam blocking the extension of a payroll-tax cut
for 160 million people with jobs and emergency unemployment
benefits for those without.  “We should stop marching on all those other cities and get
together to march on one -- D.C.,” Brook, 30, a restaurant
worker in downtown Chicago, said in an interview yesterday.  Deadlocked Republicans and Democratic lawmakers are holding
the measures hostage in a fight over spending. Most Americans
-- 58 percent -- want Congress to approve the extension,
according to an Associated Press-GfK  survey  released today.
Interviews around the nation yesterday showed divisions that
mirrored those in  Washington .  If lawmakers don’t approve the extension by Dec. 31,
workers would pay 6.2 percent on the first $110,100 of wages, up
from 4.2 percent this year. And if lawmakers don’t act,
 unemployment  benefits would be limited to the 26 weeks that most
states offer. The fight over the tax, which funds Social
Security, is the latest to-the-brink dispute that has come to
define Congress, and threatens for the third time this year to
shut down the federal government.  Congress “should not and cannot” leave for a holiday
break until it passes the measures, President  Barack Obama  said
in Washington today. A failure “wouldn’t be good for the
economy.”  ‘Playing Games’  The fight has not cowed investors:  Yields on benchmark 30-
year Treasuries , a measure of the extra money investors demand
to hold government debt, were 2.93 percent today, up from 2.90
yesterday, the lowest since Nov. 24.  Still, economists have warned the higher payroll levy might
damage the economy by restricting  consumer spending .  “They’re playing games and it kills the markets,” said
Ken Rohr, 52, a senior associate at  Bank of America Merrill
Lynch (BAC)  in Chicago. “And the average Joe is the one who
suffers.”  Each party says it wants an extension; the question is how
to pay for it. Democrats want increased revenue while
Republicans say the costs should be covered by spending cuts.
The version approved by the Republican-controlled U.S. House of
Representatives attached a provision limiting  unemployment
benefits  and promotes a Canadian oil pipeline.  ‘Stupid Thing’  Jim Nyquist, 50, an accountant in Lansing,  Michigan , said
the tax must go up.  “Cutting back the payroll tax is the most stupid thing
they could do with respect to Social Security, underfunded as it
is,” he said in an interview at an area shopping mall.  Democrats and Republicans alike are interested only in re-
election rather than sound policy, he said.  “I tend to blame the Democrats for everything but I think
it is Republicans that have been stalling this situation,” said
 David Hayes , 56, a physician from Scottsdale,  Arizona , as he
shopped at a Phoenix OfficeMax. He says he strongly believes the
tax cut should be extended.  “I think the Republicans are making a point of deficit
reduction even though they are usually anti-tax,” added Hayes,
who said he supports “armed resistance” and believes Arizona
should secede from the  United States .  ‘It’s Disgusting’  Stephanie Cook, 55, who works for  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)  in
Chicago said she objects to the pipeline amendment.  “I think it’s disgusting,” she said. “They’re playing
games again. That has nothing to do with the payroll tax and
that shouldn’t be allowed.”  When asked who’s to blame for the stalemate, Nona Fox, 67,
a retiree and writer from East Lansing, Michigan, said,
“Probably the  Republican Party , but I’m disgusted with both
parties. I’m disgusted with Congress in general.”  Mike Wilson, president of the Cincinnati Tea Party near
West Chester,  Ohio , the hometown of Republican U.S. House
Speaker  John Boehner , said his comrades are not looking for tax
cuts and want federal spending controlled.  “It would be irresponsible at this point, given the
deficit we face, to continue the  payroll-tax  cut without paying
for it,” Wilson said in a telephone interview from Cincinnati.  At the downtown Chicago fast-food restaurant where Skyler
Reinhardt works, workers have been circulating a petition to
raise the minimum wage, currently $8.25 an hour. Reinhardt, 20,
said the tax-cut dispute makes no sense.  “I know that things need to be paid for, but are they
charging the right people?” Reinhardt asked.  State employee Pat Cruz shook her head.  “To me, they ought to lock these guys in a room and let
them fight it out to see who wins,” said Cruz, 61, who lives in
the suburb of Woodridge.  “I’m living from paycheck to paycheck, trying to make ends
meet while these guys are lining their own pockets,” Cruz said
as she scratched the coating off a lottery ticket.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in  Chicago  at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  