-- BlueCrest’s Platt Says European Banks Insolvent as Bass Sees Possible Run
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2011-12-15T20:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/peripheral-europe-may-face-a-run-on-banks-in-coming-months-kyle-bass-says.html
Michael Platt, founder of the $30
billion hedge fund BlueCrest Capital Management LLP, said most
of the banks in Europe are insolvent and the situation will
worsen in 2012 as the region’s debt crisis accelerates.  Kyle Bass, the Dallas-based hedge-fund manager who said in
2009 there would be sovereign  defaults  within three years, said
Greek, Portuguese and Spanish depositors will withdraw money
from banks in the coming months.  “I do not take any exposure to banks at all if I can avoid
it,” Platt, 43, said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Inside Track With  Erik Schatzker .” If European
lenders had to mark their books to markets every day in the same
way hedge funds do, most would be proven “insolvent,” he said.  The European Banking Authority demanded this month that the
region’s banks raise 114.7 billion euros ($149 billion) in fresh
capital to withstand writedowns on Greek bonds and other
sovereign debt. Attracting additional funds may be challenging
as lenders are suffering from depressed share prices and lack of
confidence from investors.  Platt said he’s disappointed in the measures that came out
of last week’s meeting of European leaders, saying they were too
focused on budget cuts. Austerity will ultimately lead to slower
growth in  Europe , making the region’s debt woes even worse, he
said. A solution will come when the European Central Bank pumps
significant amounts of money into economies, something it lacks
a mandate to do, Platt said.  Completely Unstable  The situation in Europe is “completely unstable” because
economies are shrinking at the same time as governments are
paying higher yields to service debt, Platt said. The region is
heading into a recession that “can turn all the countries of
Europe, given enough time, into  Greece ,” he said.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said today
that the euro area may not be able to escape a recession
triggered by governments’ austerity measures. BlackRock Inc.,
the world’s biggest asset manager, said European nations
including France and  Germany  are headed for a recession as the
crisis prompts companies to cut spending and stop hiring.  “We now believe that we’re in for a full-fledged
recession, including one in France and Germany, that could cut
GDP by 1 percent to 2 percent,” according to a note published
today by New York-based BlackRock’s investment institute.
“Short-term austerity measures could worsen the recession,
defeating their very purpose of closing budget gaps.”  ‘Failed Attempt’  The Dec. 9 European Union summit was the 15th in 23 months
as leaders attempt to contain a surge in bond yields that
threatens the survival of the common currency. Leaders agreed on
a blueprint for a closer fiscal union, added 200 billion euros
to their war chest and sped the start of a 500 billion-euro
rescue fund to next year.  “As European leaders press forward with failed attempt
after failed attempt to suppress borrowing costs, control
spending, reduce deficits and prop up what the markets have
already told us is a broken monetary system, the data tells us
that the citizens of the most troubled and profligate nations
are losing confidence in the euro dream,” Bass, who runs Hayman
Capital Management LP, said yesterday in an investor letter, a
copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Bass, who made $500 million with bets on a U.S. subprime-
mortgage market collapse, said trust and confidence in the
European economy has been lost and sovereign defaults are
“imminent.” He declined to comment beyond the letter when
contacted by Bloomberg News today.  ‘Destabilizing  Latvia ’  Latvians pulled about $54 million from local  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) 
automatic teller machines on Dec. 11 and 12 on speculation
customers wouldn’t be able to access their funds.  “The rumors were knowingly distributed with the goal of
destabilizing the situation in Latvia,” Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said, according to the Leta newswire.  In Greece, business and household bank  deposits  have
slumped 26 percent in the past two years to 176 billion euros,
and fell in October by the most since the nation joined the
euro, according to the  Bank of Greece. (TELL)  There were 2.24 trillion
euros of  overnight deposits  with euro-region financial
institutions at the end of September, down from 2.26 trillion in
July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Just as Latvians ran to the ATMs this weekend, so will
depositors all over peripheral Europe in the months ahead,”
Bass, whose hedge fund oversees $948 million, said in the
letter. “Deposits are now declining at an accelerated pace.
What’s surprising is that it hasn’t happened much sooner.”  Buying Treasuries  S&P placed the ratings of 15 euro nations on review for
possible downgrade on Dec. 5, including the region’s six AAA
rated countries. Moody’s said Dec. 12 it will review the ratings
of all EU countries in the first quarter of 2012 because the
summit didn’t produce “decisive policy measures.”  BlueCrest is pouring money into U.S. Treasuries and short-
term German debt because of concerns about market volatility and
counterparty risk, Platt said. BlueCrest Capital International,
the fund he personally manages in Geneva, has risen about 5.6
percent this year through November.  Platt’s BlueCrest International fund hasn’t had a down year
since he started the company in 2000 after leaving a proprietary
trading desk at New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The fund,
which has produced an average annual return of about 13.8
percent, mainly bets on movements for currencies and interest
rates. The firm’s BlueTrend Fund, which uses computers to try to
spot profitable trades in futures contracts tied to currencies
and commodities, is down about 2.7 percent this year.  BlueCrest has avoided buying assets put up for sale by
banks that are trying to deleverage because of concerns about
liquidity, Platt said. The financial meltdown of 2008 showed how
quickly holdings can become hard to sell at the same time hedge
fund investors are forcing sales by trying to pull their money
out of the industry, he said.  “I would not touch them with a barge pole,” he said.
“The major opportunities will come post-blowout.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  