-- Peru’s Dollar Bonds Gain as Anti-Mining Protesters Seek Talks
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2011-12-15T21:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/peru-s-dollar-bonds-gain-as-anti-mining-protesters-seek-talks.html
Peru ’s dollar bonds rose, pushing
down yields to a four-week low, after opponents to Newmont
Mining Corp.’s mine expansion, the Andean country’s biggest
investment project, ended their protests and agreed to talks
with the government.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 6.55 percent dollar-
denominated bond due March 2037 fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 4.76 percent at 4:02 p.m. New York time.
That’s the lowest yield since Nov. 17. The security’s price rose
0.73 cent to 126.05 cents per dollar.  President Ollanta Humala fired 10 ministers on Dec. 11,
four months into his term, as he sought to speed up the
resolution of anti-mining protests. His new Cabinet Chief Oscar Valdes said yesterday Humala must decide whether to call off the
state of emergency in Cajamarca, where Newmont’s project is
based, after local political leaders ended three weeks of
protests.  “Overall the market has viewed the cabinet changes
positively,” said Bret Rosen, a strategist at Standard
Chartered Bank in  New York . “Peru fundamentals still look good,
but investors have had their worries about the implications of
the protests.”  The sol gained 0.1 percent to 2.6970 per  U.S. dollar  at
today’s close, from 2.6990 yesterday, according to Deutsche Bank
AG’s local unit.  The central bank didn’t  buy or sell dollars  in the spot
currency market today.  Peru’s  economy expanded  at the slowest pace in 21 months in
October as rising consumer demand and government outlays failed
to offset a slowdown in private investment. Gross domestic
product rose 5.1 percent in October from a year earlier, the
national statistics agency said today in an e-mailed report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  