-- Pfizer Settled About Half of Prempro Cases, Adds to Reserve
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2011-12-15T13:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/pfizer-has-settled-about-half-of-prempro-cases-adds-to-reserve.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, has settled almost half of the lawsuits over its
menopause drugs and increased the funds set aside to resolve the
cases, the company said in a regulatory filing.  Pfizer and its  Wyeth  and  Pharmacia & Upjohn  units have
resolved about 46 percent of suits that claimed the companies’
hormone-replacement medicines, including  Prempro  and  Premarin ,
caused breast cancer, according to the Securities and Exchange
Commission filing. Pfizer said it added $68 million to the
$772 million it already reserved for the cases.  “We have recorded a charge of $260 million in the first
nine months of 2011 that provides for the minimum expected costs
to resolve all the remaining hormone-replacement actions,”
Pfizer officials said in the Nov. 10 filing.  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms including hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer.
Wyeth’s sales of the medicines, which are still on the market,
exceeded $2 billion before the release of the  Women’s Health
Initiative  study sponsored by the  National Institutes of Health .  Until 1995, many menopausal women combined Wyeth’s
Premarin, an estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden  Provera ,
made by Pfizer’s Upjohn unit, to relieve their symptoms. Wyeth
combined the two hormones in its Prempro pill. Pfizer, based in
 New York , acquired Wyeth in 2009.  10,000 Claims  At the height of the litigation, Pfizer faced more than
10,000 claims that its menopause drugs caused breast cancer,
according to lawyers for former users. Those lawsuits included
more than 8,000 cases consolidated in federal court in Arkansas
and suits in state courts in  Pennsylvania , Nevada and  Minnesota .  Pfizer in May disclosed the $772 million reserve and said
it had resolved a third of the cases, or about 3,300. The
November filing indicates Pfizer officials have now settled
almost 5,000 of the suits.  “Pfizer continues to have a strong record of success in
defending these cases,” Chris Loder, a company spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement. “While we will continue to look for
opportunities to enter into favorable settlements where
appropriate, we will also continue to vigorously defend these
medicines in litigation.”  Jury Verdicts  Wyeth and Upjohn have now lost 10 of the 18 Prempro cases
decided by juries since 2006. Pfizer got some of those verdicts
thrown out or had the awards reduced. It resolved some of the
verdicts through settlements, while other decisions are on
appeal. Pfizer also has had cases thrown out before trial.  Earlier this month, a Philadelphia jury ordered the Pfizer
units to pay $72.6 million in compensatory damages to three
women who blamed the drugs for their breast cancers. Pfizer
agreed to settle the case before jurors were asked to decide
whether the company should face punitive damages. Terms of the
settlements weren’t released.  The $260 million Pfizer has reserved for the remaining
Prempro cases is only “an estimate” and “additional charges
may be required,” the company said in the Nov. 10 filing.  Zoe Littlepage, a lawyer representing women suing Pfizer
over the menopause drugs, said that reserve doesn’t provide
enough compensation to spur settlements of outstanding claims.  “Based upon the size of the jury verdicts to date, and the
fact that multiple appellate courts have now affirmed some of
those verdicts, this new amount of money set aside by Pfizer
seems grossly insufficient to resolve the remaining claims,”
Littlepage said in an e-mailed statement.  The consolidated case in  Arkansas  is In Re Prempro
Products, 03-CV-015070-WRW, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Arkansas ( Little Rock ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  