-- Philippine Remittance Growth Slows as Global Economy Falters
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2011-12-15T06:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/philippine-remittance-growth-slows-as-global-economy-falters-1-.html
Remittances  sent home by Philippine
citizens abroad increased at a slower pace in October, adding to
concern  consumer spending  may weaken and hurt economic growth.  The  funds  rose 6.2 percent from a year earlier to $1.78
billion, the central bank said in a statement in Manila today.
Remittances grew 8.4 percent in September.  Europe’s debt crisis has sapped global growth, hurting
demand for Filipino workers overseas and threatening to curb
remittances that help support purchases of items such as  Vista
Land & Lifescapes Inc. (VLL)  homes. President  Benigno Aquino  unveiled
a 72 billion-peso ($1.6 billion) fiscal stimulus package in
October, with nations from Indonesia to China also stepping up
efforts to sustain spending at home.  “Remittances will slow down mainly because of weaker
growth and high unemployment rates in developed economies,”  Luz Lorenzo , an economist at ATR-Kim Eng Securities Inc. in Manila,
said before the report. “Even if you look for new markets, it
won’t be enough to offset weaker demand in advanced economies.”  The peso reached 44.323 per dollar today, the weakest level
in more than 10 months, before trading at 44.215 at the mid-day
break, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The benchmark Philippine
Stock Exchange Index closed down 0.1 percent.  Remittances account for about 10 percent of the
Philippines’ $200 billion economy and are the nation’s largest
source of foreign-exchange after exports.  The government forecast in October that the economy may
expand 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent this year, compared with an
earlier estimate of 5 percent to 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  