-- Putin Hits Back at Opposition Protest in Vote-Fraud Standoff
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2011-12-16T07:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/putin-denies-fraud-in-vote-claims-foreign-role-in-protests-3-.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  hit
back at protests over alleged electoral fraud even as  Russia ’s
biggest street demonstrations in a decade threaten to complicate
his bid to return to the Kremlin next year.  While Putin pledged to bolster transparency during March’s
presidential vote, he rejected accusations of fraud at Dec. 4
parliamentary elections and said foreign funding was helping
fuel protests organized by his foes to “destabilize” Russia.
He spoke in a 4 1/2-hour phone-in show on television yesterday.  Putin, 59, is facing the biggest unrest since he came to
power. Opposition groups got permission this week to stage a
demonstration in Moscow on Dec. 24 for as many as 50,000 people,
twice the size of the crowd estimated by police at a similar
rally Dec. 10. The protests may force Putin into a run-off for
the Kremlin if he can’t win more than 50 percent support.  “Putin doesn’t believe he has to make any serious
compromises,” Mikhail Vinogradov, head of the St. Petersburg
Politics Foundation research group, said yesterday by phone.
“He made statements the opposition will consider insulting.”  The ruble was little changed at 31.7674 per dollar after
yesterday snapping 10 days of losses against the U.S. currency.
The 30-stock  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index advanced for a second day, adding 0.7
percent to 1,403.33 at 10:59 a.m. in Moscow.  Orange Revolution  Putin warned against being “dragged into some schemes to
destabilize society” and compared the rallies against
accusations of ballot-rigging to  Ukraine ’s Orange Revolution.
Organizers paid students to join the Dec. 10 rally in the
Russian capital, he added.  “We know the Orange Revolution in Ukraine -- some of our
opposition leaders were in Ukraine at the time and were working
officially as advisers to Yushchenko,” Putin said, referring to
the 2004 street protests in the former Soviet republic that
overturned the results of a presidential election and brought
opposition leader  Viktor Yushchenko  to power. “They are
transferring these tactics to Russia.”  Boris Nemtsov , a former deputy prime minister and an
opposition leader who backed Yushchenko as president, became an
economic adviser after the Ukrainian leader was elected. He
didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.  Some of his opponents “have Russian passports, but are
acting in the interests of foreign states and with foreign
money,” Putin said.  Majority Eroded  The ruling United Russia party’s majority in the State Duma
dropped to 238 of the legislature’s 450 seats from 315 after the
2007 vote as stalling wage growth and the government’s failure
to curb corruption repelled voters. International observers said
the parliamentary vote was marked by ballot-stuffing and was
neither free nor fair.  Putin’s party won more than 46 percent of the vote in
Moscow,  Europe ’s largest city with 11.5 million people and the
epicenter of the protests to date, according to official
results. That compared with 27.5 percent support in an exit poll
by the Public Opinion Foundation.  “The results of these elections definitely reflect the
real balance of forces in the country,” said Putin, who
announced plans in September to return to the Kremlin, pushing
aside his protege  Dmitry Medvedev . “The opposition will always
claim election results aren’t fair.”  Courts must review allegations of vote fraud after official
results are announced, he added.  Presidential Vote  As he gears up for Russia’s 2012 presidential elections,
Putin said he’d quit his leadership role if he understood that
he no longer had the support of the people.  The premier’s approval rating is 46 percent, according to a
Nov. 26-27 poll of 3,000 people by the  Public Opinion 
Foundation. No margin of error was given. Putin would get 42
percent if a presidential election were held this weekend, the
state-run All-Russian Center for the Study of Public Opinion, or
VTsIOM, said today, citing a  survey  conducted among 1,600 people
on Dec. 10-11 with a 3.4 percentage-point margin of error.  Putin, who served as president from 2000 to 2008 and may be
in power until 2024, told election officials yesterday to
install web cameras at every single polling station in March to
avoid any accusations of vote fraud.  ‘Delegitimize the Authorities’  “For me it’s clear these attacks about the recent
elections have an ongoing character -- the main aim is the next
elections, presidential elections,” Putin said. “We need to
make sure there aren’t any problems here, to minimize the chance
for people to point to these elections as unfair, to pull the
rug from under those who want to delegitimize the authorities
completely.”  Putin also said he would consider pardoning  Mikhail Khodorkovsky  if he succeeds in returning to the Kremlin,
countering billionaire presidential challenger  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s pledge to free the former Yukos Oil Co. owner.  Ousted Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said Putin shouldn’t
“provoke” political protesters with claims that many of them
were paid to attend rallies.  People are right to condemn the election results because
violations occurred and the response from the authorities has
been “inadequate,” Kudrin told reporters in Moscow today.  Putin’s attitude to the protests shows that he hasn’t
understood the need to take on board the complaints of middle-
class Russians who took to the streets, said Julian Rimmer, a
trader of Russian shares at CF Global Trading in  London .  “He has been trotting out the familiar canards to explain
away the most vociferous expressions of discontent since his
reign of ‘managed democracy’ began,” Rimmer said by e-mail
today. “He has, by turns, blamed foreign interference for the
dissent or clever manipulation of callow youth by unscrupulous
‘counter-revolutionary elements.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  