-- Quantum Dots Boost Solar-Cell Efficiency, Cut Costs, NREL Says
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2011-12-15T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/quantum-dots-boost-solar-cell-efficiency-cut-costs-nrel-says.html
Solar cells may one day use
microscopic chunks of semiconductors known as quantum dots to
produce more power and cut production costs, according to an
article to be published Dec. 16 in the journal Science.  Conventional solar cells struggle to convert high-energy
photons in sunlight into electricity, said Matt Beard, a senior
scientist at the  National Renewable Energy Laboratory  and one of
the article’s authors.  Quantum dots, pieces of semiconductor materials measuring 2
nanometers, or 2 billionths of a meter, let cells convert more
photons into electricity. The technique may boost conversion
efficiency by as much as 30 percent, he said.  “Using quantum dots as your absorber material, you can
better convert that high-photon electricity,” Beard said in a
telephone interview from Golden,  Colorado .  The semiconductor materials used to make solar cells now
must be produced at high temperature, about 600 degrees Celsius
(1,112 degrees Fahrenheit), Beard said. Quantum dot materials
can be made at about 200 degrees Celsius and consume less
energy, reducing manufacturing costs.  The NREL test used solar cells measuring 1 square
centimeter. The technology is not commercially viable now and it
will likely be at least five years before the quantum-dot
technology may be produced in panels large enough for rooftops,
Beard said.  “There still needs to be a lot of work in improving the
overall conversion efficiency for the solar cell,” Beard said.
“We’re not there yet.”  Richard Swanson, co-founder and president emeritus of
 SunPower Corp. , the second-largest U.S. solar manufacturer, said
in an e-mailed statement that given the long development cycle,
it’s premature to evaluate the commercial implications of the
technology, “except to cheer on the researchers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  