-- Treasury Sells TIPS at Record Low Negative Yield Before Inflation Report
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2011-12-15T22:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/treasuries-snap-three-day-advance-before-regional-manufacturing-reports.html
The  U.S. Treasury  sold $12 billion
in five-year inflation-linked debt at a record low negative
yield in the week’s final of four note and bond auctions before
a report tomorrow forecast to show an uptick in consumer prices.  Treasuries swung between gains and losses with ten-year
yields earlier touching a two-month low, amid concern Europe’s
debt crisis is worsening and data that showed U.S. employment
and manufacturing improved. Ten- year  notes erased losses after
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said the European crisis is escalating to the point that it
won’t be solved by one group of countries. The Treasury
Inflation-Protected Securities drew a yield of negative 0.877
percent.  “It’s a total grab for safety by investors,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in  New York  at Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities USA Inc. “The flow of funds has been decidedly out
of risk and into risk-less, and Treasuries are the beneficiaries
of that. Europe hasn’t done anything to convince anyone they’ve
got this under control.”  Ten-year note yields  rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.91 percent at 4:59 p.m. in New York. The
price of the 2 percent security due in November 2021 slipped
1/32, or $0.31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100 26/32. The
yield fell earlier to 1.86 percent, the least since Oct. 5,
before increasing to as high as 1.94 percent.  Five-year yields 
were little changed at 0.85 percent.  Thirty-year bonds resumed a decline. Long-bond yields
advanced 2 basis points to 2.92 percent after rising earlier to
as high as 2.95 percent and falling to 2.85 percent.  Euro Recovers  The euro gained 0.3 percent to $1.3015 after rising earlier
to $1.3050. It fell below $1.30 yesterday for the first time in
11 months on concern European leaders will struggle to resolve
debt turmoil. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up 0.3 percent
after earlier climbing as much as 1.1 percent.  “The situation in Europe isn’t that great, which has kept
a bid in the Treasury market,” said  Sean Murphy , a Treasury
trader at  Societe Generale  in New York, one of the 21 primary
dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve . “U.S. data isn’t
mattering much right now, even though it’s been better.”  Treasuries fell after Labor Department figures showed U.S.
initial  jobless claims  dropped by 19,000 to 366,000 in the week
ended Dec. 10. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
projected an increase to 390,000.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
Index, a gauge of manufacturing, rose to 9.5, from 0.6 in
November. Economists in another Bloomberg survey projected it
would rise to 3. Readings higher than zero signal expansion.  Consumer Prices  “The data continues to get stronger,” said Thomas Simons,
a government-debt economist in New York at Jefferies Group Inc.,
one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “There are
not too many points of weakness.”  The  consumer price index  is forecast to rise by 0.1
percent after an equal rate of decline the prior month,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of 81 economists before the
Labor Department reports tomorrow in Washington. The so-called
core rate that excludes volatile food and fuel costs is
estimated to rise 0.1 percent, matching October’s figures.  The IMF’s Lagarde said that if countries don’t work
together, the world will face a situation similar to the 1930s,
before the world slid into World War II.  “There is no economy in the world, whether low-income
countries, emerging markets, middle-income countries or super-
advanced economies, that will be immune to the crisis that we
see not only unfolding, but escalating at a point where
everybody would actually have to focus on what it can do,” she
said in  Washington  at a program for women in public service.  Debt Auction  Treasury notes remained little changed after the
government’s TIPS auction. It was the fourth straight auction
that drew a negative yield. TIPS have returned 14 percent this
year, the most since 2002, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
show.  Holders of TIPS receive an adjustment to the principal
value of their securities equal to the change in the consumer
price index, in addition to a fixed rate of interest that’s
smaller than the interest paid to a holder of conventional debt.  The fixed payment on five-year TIPS, known as the real
yield, was pushed below zero because the rise in the CPI was
greater than the yield on regular five-year U.S. notes.  Record Indirect Bid  Today’s sale had a bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand
by comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, of 3.01
percent, versus an average of 2.57 at the past 10 auctions of
the maturity. Indirect bidders, a class that includes foreign
central banks, bought 48.8 percent of the notes, a record high.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and TIPS, a
gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices over the life
of the debt, was 1.93 percentage points. The 10-year average is
2.13 percentage points.  The auction capped the sale of $78 billion in notes, bonds
and inflation-linked debt this week. The government sold $13
billion in 30-year bonds yesterday at a record low auction yield
of 2.925 percent and a bid-to-cover ratio of 3.05, the highest
since August 2000. Auctions of 10- and three-year notes also
drew stronger-than-average demand as investors sought refuge.  The Treasury said it will sell next week $35 billion of
two-year notes, the same amount of five-year debt and $29
billion of seven-year securities. The amounts were unchanged
from the last auctions of the notes in November.  Michael Platt, the founder of the $30 billion hedge fund
BlueCrest Capital Management LLP, said most of the banks in
 Europe  are insolvent and the situation will worsen in 2012 as
the region’s debt crisis accelerates.  Treasuries, Bunds  BlueCrest is pouring money into U.S. Treasuries and short-
term German debt because of concern about market volatility and
counterparty risk, Platt said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television today. BlueCrest Capital International, the fund he
manages in Geneva, has risen about 5.6 percent in 2011.  Global demand for U.S. financial assets rose in October
even as  China  decreased its holdings, the Treasury Department
reported today. Net buying of long-term equities, notes and
bonds totaled $4.8 billion compared with net purchases of $68.3
billion in September, data showed.  Foreign holdings  of Treasuries declined by $3.9 billion to
$4.66 trillion, leaving the increase in 2011 through October at
5 percent, the smallest advance since a 1 percent rise for the
same period in 2006.  China , the largest foreign lender to the U.S., cut its
Treasuries holdings in October by 1.2 percent to $1.13 trillion,
Treasury data show.  Japan , the second-largest foreign lender,
boosted its stake in Treasuries by 2.3 percent to $979 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  