-- Rebecca Black Tops Apple's IPad in Annual Google Search Ranking
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2011-12-15T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/rebecca-black-tops-apple-in-annual-google-annual-search-ranking.html
Rebecca Black, whose song “Friday”
inspired cheers -- and jeers -- on the Web, was the fastest
rising search term globally on  Google Inc. (GOOG)  this year, according
to the company’s annual review of popular queries.  Songstress Black edged out “Google+,” the company’s
social-networking service, in the yearly “Zeitgeist” ranking
of terms with the most growth. Next up: Ryan Dunn, a star of
Paramount Pictures’ “Jackass” movies who died in a car crash,
followed by Casey Anthony, who was found not guilty of murdering
her daughter,  Google  said.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  products and its co-
founder  Steve Jobs  are among terms rounding out the top 10.  Google’s 11-year-old ranking offers a glimpse of what was
most often on people’s minds -- and in their search queries --
throughout the year. Mountain View, California-based Google is
the most widely used Web-search tool.  “When looking at the data, it is fascinating to see the
cultural fads and trends that took over the globe, from cupcakes
(making top food lists in over a dozen countries) to the Dukan
diet and high-profile weddings,” Google said in a blog posting.  The only other musical artist in the top 10 was Adele.
Jobs, who died this year, was No. 9.  When it came to news in the U.S., the fastest rising term
was  Hurricane Irene , followed by Occupy, in reference to the
Occupy Wall Street movement that coalesced around dismay with
the financial industry. The next-fastest rising news searches
focused on  Japan ’s earthquake and nuclear disaster, the yet-to-
be-released iPhone 5, Libya, Apple’s iPad 2 and Osama bin Laden.  Apple dominated the list of top technology search in the
U.S. Its iCloud, the Web storage system, was No. 1, followed by
OSX Lion, the  operating system.  Debt ceiling was No. 1 for economic issues in the U.S,
followed by U.S. GDP (gross domestic product), recession 2011,
inflation 2011 and  U.S. economy  2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  