-- Republicans Chasing Reagan Legacy Once Criticized Party’s Icon
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2011-12-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/republicans-chasing-reagan-legacy-once-criticized-party-s-icon.html
A near-certainty in tonight’s
Republican presidential debate in  Iowa  is that any mention of
 Ronald Reagan  will be full of praise. He stands as the model
president for Republicans seeking the office.  What  Newt Gingrich , the front-runner in the party’s current
race, is unlikely to note is that he once charged that Reagan’s
administration “has failed, is failing, and without a dramatic
fundamental change in strategy will continue to fail” in
dealing with the Soviet Union. Nor will rival  Mitt Romney  repeat
his comment in a 1994 Senate race that he wasn’t “trying to
return to” Reagan policies.  Ron Paul , another leading Republican presidential
contender, blamed Reagan for growing  U.S. deficits  as he left
party in 1987 and sought the White House as the Libertarian
nominee a year later. Meanwhile,  Rick Perry  was a Democrat in
Texas during Reagan’s 1981-1989 presidential tenure.  Past criticisms are now forgotten. Reagan’s name has come
up 64 times in 12 previous Republican debates. Gingrich, a
former U.S. House speaker, mentions him the most. In a Dec. 10
debate, he declared, “I’m proud to be a Reaganite.”  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, called Reagan’s
powers of leadership “amazing” during a Dec. 7 speech to the
Republican Jewish Coalition in  Washington . And on Dec. 9 he told
the Des Moines Register editorial board that Reagan’s experience
in the private sector was longer than in government, a selling
point in Romney’s campaign.  Paul’s Ad  Paul, a Texas congressman, ran an ad called “Trust” which
touts his early backing for Reagan in 1976 and 1980. As pictures
of the two men flash on the screen, the ad says Paul “stood
with Reagan.” And it zings Perry as a “cheerleader” for
Democrat Al Gore’s 1988 presidential bid -- ignoring Paul’s own
third-party candidacy that year.  Perry, the governor of  Texas , switched to the  Republican
Party  in 1989, the year Reagan left office. Perry now praises
Reagan for his foresight on the Soviet Union. “He said the
Soviet Union was destined for the ash heap of history, and he
was correct,” Perry said during a Nov. 22 debate.  The three other candidates on the stage tonight in Sioux
City, Iowa -- none of whom had began their elective political
careers until Reagan had left office -- also tout Reagan and
seek to tie themselves to him.  U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota promotes
Reagan’s “economic miracle” and pledges to use that as a
guide. Former Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania  declared in
a Nov. 14 interview with  CNN  that “there’s no one who’s more
Reagan conservative than me.”  White House Aide  Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., who served as a
White House staff assistant to Reagan, chose the site of the
former president’s general election campaign kickoff in 1980 --
a New Jersey park where the Statue of Liberty serves as backdrop
-- to announce his own bid for the White House in June.  In the mid-1980s, Reagan didn’t always find such an adoring
audience in his own party. Gingrich, then a Georgia congressman,
in 1986 took to the House floor to voice his disappointment with
the Reagan administration’s policies toward the  Soviet Union .  “The burden of this failure, frankly, must be placed first
on President Reagan,” Gingrich said on March 21, according to
the Congressional Record. “In addition to making good speeches,
it is his job to ensure that others design good policies.”  ‘Incorrect, Ineffective Fumblings’  Gingrich praised Reagan’s ideas even as he criticized the
results. “The Reagan administration has a huge gap between its
president’s correct visionary warnings of the transnational
Soviet empire and the rest of the executive branch’s incorrect,
ineffective fumblings and inadequacies,” he said.  The next year, Paul sent a letter to the  Republican
National Committee  resigning his membership. “There is no
credibility left for the Republican Party as a force to reduce
the size of government,” Paul said. “That is the message of
the Reagan years.”  Paul explains the contrast between embracing Reagan now and
considering him a failure in 1987 as a result of his frustration
with the former president’s vision versus his actions. “The
message was great,” Paul said during a Sept. 7 debate. “But
the consequence, we have to be honest with ourselves, it was not
all that great.”  Romney sought to distance himself from Reagan during an
Oct. 25, 1994, debate with Edward Kennedy, the veteran
Democratic senator he was trying to unseat in  Massachusetts .  Kennedy said Romney was trying to take the U.S. back to the
“Reagan-Bush years,” a reference to Reagan’s vice president
and his White House successor for one term,  George H.W. Bush .  “I was an independent during the time of Reagan-Bush,”
Romney said. “I’m not trying to return to Reagan-Bush.”  In comparison to the 64 debate references to Reagan, the
elder Bush has been invoked once.  George W. Bush , his son and
president from 2001-2009, has been mentioned 23 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  