-- RIM’s Fumbled PlayBook Seen Keeping Acquirers on Sidelines
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2011-12-15T15:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/rim-s-botched-playbook-debut-seen-keeping-acquirers-on-sidelines.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s mishandled
debut of its BlackBerry PlayBook has hurt more than just sales
of the tablet. It may be turning off possible buyers of the
company.  RIM’s shares have dropped 72 percent since April 19, when
the PlayBook first hit the U.S. market. Countering that trend,
the stock has jumped at least 5 percent nine times since July on
speculation a bid might come from a larger technology company,
such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  or  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   Yet bidders are unlikely to emerge until investors have a
better sense of whether the PlayBook’s new software -- which RIM
is betting its future on -- will be a success, said Jeff Fidacaro, an analyst with Susquehanna International Group.  “No one is going to acquire them until RIM figures out
this internal transition,” said Fidacaro, who’s based in New
York and rates RIM shares “negative.” “That integration
hurdle is going to keep these guys on the sidelines.”  RIM bought a Canadian company called QNX Software Systems
last year and is rebuilding its entire line of smartphones
around QNX software. The first models are expected out in 2012.  The PlayBook was supposed to lead a fleet of sophisticated
new devices that would revive Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM’s
fortunes. Yet software delays and marketing missteps have left
current PlayBook shipments at about 1 percent of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
market-leading iPad.  No E-Mail  RIM shares had dropped 74 percent this year before today,
while Apple had climbed 18 percent. RIM was unchanged at $15.08
at 10:28 a.m. New York time, below its book value of $18.92 a
share. That implies investors view RIM as worth less than the
net value of its cash, inventories, real estate and intellectual
property.  The PlayBook was criticized for lacking a dedicated e-mail
program when it was introduced in April. RIM promised to fix
that in a software upgrade, which it now says won’t come until
February. Moreover, the company now says the first BlackBerrys
using the new operating system won’t come out until they’re
ready, declining to reiterate an earlier goal of the first
quarter of next year.  “If you’re an acquirer, you want to see a little bit
more,” said  Will Stofega , an analyst at IDC in Framingham,
Mass. “I don’t know what an acquisition does” at this point,
he said.  Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman for RIM, declined to comment.  Writing Down the PlayBook  Co-Chief Executive Officers  Mike Lazaridis  and  Jim Balsillie  are also both co-chairmen and together own 10.5
percent of the company. While they have acknowledged investors’
frustrations on recent conference calls, they continue to
emphasize the PlayBook’s promise.  The PlayBook is “a compelling tablet for consumers that
also offers unique security and manageability features for the
enterprise,” Lazaridis said in a Dec. 2 statement. At the same
time, RIM said it would book $485 million in pretax charges to
write down the value of its PlayBook inventory. The company also
said it didn’t expect to meet its full-year earnings target.  That’s a problem, Fidacaro said.  “They’re in love with their own product,” he said.  ’Bitter Pill’  Adnaan Ahmad, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London ,
published an open letter to Lazaridis and Balsillie yesterday.
He criticized their bullish tone in recent statements and
conference calls and called on them to adopt a more realistic
approach to RIM’s obstacles.  “You both need to swallow the bitter pill and come out of
denial fast,” he wrote.  Ahmad urged RIM to focus on its strengths as a network
services company and get out of the hardware business, joining
RBC Capital Markets analyst  Mike Abramsky , who first made the
case for a split in July.  RIM is scheduled to report fiscal third-quarter earnings
today after the close of regular trading. Analysts on average
estimate that it will report a profit before some costs of $1.22
a share, on sales of $5.27 billion.  The company already said on Dec. 2 that third-quarter
revenue was “slightly lower” than an earlier projection of
$5.3 billion to $5.6 billion, and profit was “at the low to mid
point” of its forecast of $1.20 to $1.40 a share. The company
also predicted fourth-quarter phone shipments would drop from
the previous period, even with the release of a handful of new
phones in September and the arrival of the  holiday shopping
season .  Apple’s Inroads  RIM is losing market share to Cupertino, California-based
Apple and Asian rivals Samsung and  HTC Corp. (2498) , which are
attracting consumers with smartphones that can run tens of
thousands of games, tools and other applications made by
developers for those systems.  The BlackBerry’s U.S. market share sank to 9.2 percent in
the third quarter from 24 percent a year earlier as consumers
opted for the iPhone and smartphones that run  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software, according to research firm Canalys.  “The facts are pretty grim,” said  Roger Entner , an
independent technology analyst. “BlackBerry will have for
several more years a good enterprise base, but how long will
even that continue when you have Apple making major inroads?”  As Apple attacks RIM’s traditional hold on business
executives and lawyers, the PlayBook has gained little ground
against the iPad. RIM shipped 150,000 PlayBooks last quarter,
down from 200,000 in the previous period and 500,000 in its
debut quarter.  By contrast, Apple sold a record 11.1 million iPads in its
most recent quarter, and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire tablet --
similar in size to the PlayBook -- may sell 3.9 million units in
its first quarter on sale, according to researcher IHS ISuppli.  Calls for Change  Jaguar Financial Corp. today reiterated its call for RIM to
split into separate companies or seek a buyer and shake up its
management. Investors holding 8 percent of RIM shares support
the effort, Toronto-based Jaguar has said. Jaguar appealed to
board members Barbara Stymiest and  Roger Martin  to lead efforts
to split the role of chairman and CEO.  Martin, dean of the University of Toronto’s Rotman School
of Management, and Stymiest, former chief operating officer of
Royal Bank of Canada, the country’s largest bank, “should step
up and take the lead in making dramatic governance change or
else resign,” the company said in the statement.  Fresh Start  Today’s earnings conference call, scheduled for 5 p.m.  New
York  time, is an opportunity for Balsillie and Lazaridis to put
this year’s missteps behind them and start 2012 afresh, analyst
Fidacaro said.  It’s a chance for the two men not to gush about future
products and instead tell investors they’re taking seriously
demands to reform the company’s leadership structure and
reassure them that RIM is on schedule with the PlayBook software
upgrade and new smartphones, he said. Still, Fidacaro expects
more of the same.  “They’re going to say ‘these are phenomenal products,
they’re really competitive, just wait till you see the QNX
stuff.’”  Even if Balsillie and Lazaridis do change their tone, RIM
will struggle to shift course with falling sales and market
share in sharp decline, said Entner, who has tracked the
telecommunications industry since the late ‘80s.  “RIM is still turning, but it’s sinking,” Entner said.
“Can it turn fast enough before it hits the bottom of the
sea?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  