-- RIM Spars With Indonesia Over Server as It Seeks Emerging Markets Growth
-- B y   F e m i   A d i
-- 2011-12-15T06:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/rim-spars-with-indonesia-over-server-as-it-seeks-emerging-markets-growth.html
Indonesia may issue a rule next year
requiring telecommunications companies, including  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIM) , operating there to build local data centers, a move
the nation’s biggest smartphone seller has resisted.  The government has informed the companies of the coming
regulation, an element of the 2008 law concerning information
and electronic transactions, said Tifatul Sembiring, Indonesia’s
minister of communication and information technology.  “Building a  data center  isn’t easy,” Sembiring said in
Jakarta. “And it is expensive. We have told them to be ready.”  The pending requirement highlights the mounting challenges
RIM faces in expanding overseas as  India ,  Saudi Arabia  and the
 United Arab Emirates  have expressed concern they can’t monitor
e-mail traffic originating in their countries. The United Arab
Emirates abandoned threats to ban BlackBerry traffic in October
2010, without saying whether the Waterloo, Ontario-based company
had met its demands.  RIM will “work through” any issues the Indonesian
government has to avert any potential service interruptions,
 David Paterson , RIM’s vice president of government relations,
said in a Dec. 10 telephone interview.  Content Filters  Media reports last week said Indonesia’s government is
threatening to cut BlackBerry data services if it doesn’t comply
with commitments made in January. RIM sent a letter to the
Indonesian government Sept. 23 saying it had “fully addressed”
the government’s issues by adding content filters and speeding
up its regional network, Paterson said.  RIM said in a separate e-mailed statement that it hasn’t
been advised of any new specific requirements beyond the initial
requests by the government.  “This raises a lot of concerns as these countries want to
have it both ways - they want to claim they’re democracies and
also control everything,” said Will Stofega, an analyst at
research firm International Data Corp. in Framingham, Mass.  Indonesian police are investigating RIM’s country head
after a sale on the company’s new BlackBerry Bold 9790
smartphone resulted in a stampede that injured more than 40
people.  More than 3,000 people lined up outside a Jakarta shopping
mall on Nov. 25 to buy the newly released phone, which was being
offered at a 50 percent discount to the first 1,000 customers,
South Jakarta Police Chief Imam Sugianto said Dec. 9.  Not Blocking RIM  Three other people involved with the event also are being
investigated, Sugianto said. All are cooperating and there are
no plans to arrest anyone, he said.  Indonesia  had at least 5 million BlackBerry subscribers as
of the first half of this year, according to the nation’s
telecommunications regulator.  RIM has led Indonesia’s smartphone market since the fourth
quarter of 2010, Stofega said. IDC expects the market to grow 68
percent next year, he said.  Indonesia currently does not require companies to have
servers in Indonesia, and the government has been discussing the
regulation for about three years, a ministry spokesman, Gatot Dewo Broto, said Dec. 14. Once it is implemented, companies will
have to comply, Broto said.  The new rule doesn’t mention any companies by name, he said.  “The regulation doesn’t have any intention to block RIM,”
he said.  Earlier this year, the government urged RIM to build a
regional network aggregator in Indonesia, saying it would
benefit BlackBerry users in the world’s fourth-most populous
country, enabling the government to secure customers’ data and
to reduce costs.  “I don’t think anybody has any remote interest in doing
anything negative for the millions of BlackBerry users in
Indonesia,” Paterson said Dec. 11.  RIM installed some infrastructure in  Singapore  and  Hong
Kong  that would speed up data flow for carriers, Paterson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  