-- RIM Shares Tumble on Delayed Blackberry
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2011-12-16T21:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/rim-forecast-misses-analyst-estimates.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  fell to the
lowest level in almost eight years after saying a new generation
of BlackBerrys designed to fuel a comeback won’t be out until
the “latter part” of 2012.  The smartphone maker, which originally planned to release
the new devices in the first quarter of next year, also gave a
sales and profit forecast that missed analysts’ estimates.  The delay adds to the challenges at  RIM , which has lost
market share to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and Android phones. The
company also flubbed its entry into the tablet market, with a
device that bombed with shoppers. After all that, investors may
not trust the new target for the upgraded BlackBerrys, said
Alkesh Shah, an analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)   “Given the misexecution they’ve had recently, it’s hard to
use that as a solid deadline,” said the New York-based analyst,
who has an “equal weight” rating on RIM shares. “Let’s say
it’s a year from now, my concern is that it may be too late.”  RIM shares fell 11 percent to $13.44, its lowest since
January 2004. The stock has dropped 77 percent this year.  BMO Capital Markets analyst Tim Long,  James Cordwell of
Atlantic Equities, GMP Securities’ Michael Urlocker and Kevin Dede of Brigantine Advisors, all cut their ratings on the stock.  RIM forecast profit of 80 cents to 95 cents a share for the
fiscal fourth quarter, which ends on March 3. Sales will be $4.6
billion to $4.9 billion, the Waterloo, Ontario-based company
said. Analysts had projected profit of $1.08 a share and revenue
of $4.85 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  BB10 Software  The PlayBook tablet computer, released in April, was the
first device built on RIM’s new operating system, called BB10.
The product’s weak sales, along with marketing missteps, have
made investors skeptical about the broader upgrade, said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners in  New York .  “Why should we think the platform is going to get
traction?” he said.  RIM drew criticism for introducing the PlayBook without e-
mail, a shortcoming it said it would address over the summer.
Then the company said in October that the PlayBook e-mail
upgrade wouldn’t come until February.  The fourth-quarter forecast suggests consumers are already
losing interest in the most recent BlackBerry 7 phones, which
use the previous operating system, Shah said.  “BlackBerry 7 devices have already peaked in interest,”
he said. “The concern will be: When do the BlackBerry 10
devices come out? We have no specific target date for that, and
my concern is that by the time they come out, it won’t be
enough.”  ‘Particularly Weak’  RIM co-Chief Executive Officer  Jim Balsillie  said on a
conference call that he’s not satisfied with the “particularly
weak” performance in the U.S., which accounts for about a
quarter of revenue.  “The last few quarters have been some of the most trying
in the recent history of the company,” Balsillie said. The two
co-CEOs will be cutting their salaries to one dollar effective
immediately as they embark on a review of RIM’s product
portfolio, manufacturing and research strategy, he said.  The BB10 phones were delayed because the company wanted to
deliver devices with better performance and battery life, said
 Mike Lazaridis , the other CEO. The chipsets that will allow
those capabilities won’t be available until mid-2012. “We ask
for your patience and confidence,” Lazaridis said.  Jaguar Financial Corp. (JFC) , a Toronto-based investment firm,
reiterated its call for RIM to split into separate companies --
or seek a buyer and shake up its management. Investors holding 8
percent of RIM shares support the effort, the firm has said.  The Right Stuff?  Jaguar appealed to board members Barbara Stymiest and  Roger Martin  to lead efforts to split the role of chairman and CEO.
Balsillie and Lazaridis also serve as co-chairmen of RIM.  Lazaridis and Balsillie didn’t discuss any plans for
management or leadership changes during the conference call.  “We continue to believe that RIM has the right set of
strengths and capabilities to maintain a leading role in the
mobile communications industry,” they said in the earnings
statement.  RIM ’s U.S. market share sank to 9.2 percent in the third
quarter from 24 percent a year earlier, according to research
firm Canalys. HTC and  Samsung (005930) , which use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software, both posted gains. HTC rose 24 percent from 14
percent, while Samsung climbed to 21 percent from 14 percent.  Profit Decline  RIM’s third-quarter net income plunged 71 percent to $265
million, or 51 cents a share, from $911 million, or $1.74, a
year earlier. Sales fell about 6 percent to $5.17 billion.  Total BlackBerry shipments this quarter will be about 11
million to 12 million, RIM said. Analysts had projected 12.8
million units, according to Bloomberg data.  “The reason they are losing share in the U.S. is they
don’t have an ecosystem,” said Sameet Kanade, a Northern
Securities Inc. analyst in Toronto, who rates RIM a
“speculative buy.” Apple and Google have an army of developers
and hundreds of thousands of applications, helping keep users
loyal. RIM, meanwhile, is focused on hardware, Kanade said.  “If their entire strategy is a hardware upgrade, where is
your strategy for an ecosystem like Apple?” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  