-- Romanian Deputies Approve Increase in SIFs Ownership Limit
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2011-12-15T14:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/romanian-deputies-approve-increase-in-sifs-ownership-limit-1-.html
Romania ’s parliament approved an
increase in the ownership limit for the country’s five
investment funds, known as SIFs, to 5 percent from 1 percent.  Lawmakers voted 170-63 today in favor, Horia Uioreanu, a
member of the chamber of deputies, said by phone today.  “This approval shows foreign and domestic investors that
initiatives are not neglected in Romania and it’s positive for
the funds as investors can now put their money into larger
stakes,” Liberal Democrat Ovidiu Marian, the initiator of the
law draft, told The Money Channel television after the vote.  The ownership limit increase, which has been working its
way through parliament for three years, aims to boost interest
for investors in the funds, which were created after the fall of
communism to allow citizens to hold minority stakes in companies
and banks.  BET-FI, the index that tracks all the five SIFs, rose as
much as 13.6 percent, the most since April 2009 after the news
and was up 8.8 percent as of 3.40 p.m. in Bucharest to trade at
19,709.9.  The five SIFs own minority stakes in Romania’s largest
companies, such as  OMV Petrom SA ,  Transgaz SA (TGN)  and  BRD-Group
Societe Generale SA. (BRD)   Erste Stake  Each of the SIFs will also own about 1 percent of  Erste
Group Bank AG (EBS) , following a share-swap and cash transaction with
the Austrian lender for their 30 percent stake in Banca
Comerciala Romana SA, Romania’s biggest bank by assets.  “Improvement in corporate governance, asset management and
the decision-making process are the main effects which lure
investors, with direct impact to be reflected in the SIFs’ net-
asset value discounts,” analysts at NBG Securities Romania SA
said in a note to clients after the vote. “We expect a positive
impact on the SIFs.”  The five SIFs are  SIF Banat-Crisana SA (SIF1) ,  SIF Transilvania
SA (SIF3) ,  SIF Muntenia SA (SIF4) , SIF Oltenia SA and  SIF Moldova SA. (SIF2)  They
originate from Romania’s five Private Property Funds,
established when parliament adopted the country’s first
privatization law in 1990.  The law split most of the state’s property among the State
Ownership Fund, which had 70 percent, and Romanian citizens, who
received the remaining 30 percent. The ownership limit was
introduced in 1997 at 0.1 percent and was increased to 1 percent
nine years later.  “The increase in SIFs limit is a step forward towards
developing the real potential of the Romanian  capital market ,”
said Dumitru Beze, the head of an independent association of
investors in a phone interview. “On the medium-term the prices
for some of the SIFs shares will increase as the management will
become more transparent and work in the investors’ interest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  