-- Rupee Rebound Seen in Singh Pledge to Open Retail Investment: India Credit
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2011-12-16T04:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/rupee-rebound-seen-in-singh-pledge-to-open-retail-investment-india-credit.html
India ’s rupee, the worst-performing
currency in  Asia  this year, will post the region’s best returns
in 2012 as strategists predict Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
pledge to open the retail industry will spur foreign investment.  “India remains committed to a system of regulation that is
supportive of enterprise,” Singh said in an interview in his
Parliament House office in New Delhi on Dec. 14. “We will do
everything to encourage foreign investment.”  Global funds increased  holdings  of rupee-denominated debt
by $3.1 billion this month, the most on record, amid speculation
that slowing  inflation  will allow the central bank to stop
raising  interest rates . The 8.49 percent yield on the nation’s
10-year rupee-denominated bonds is almost five times that for
the U.S. and 500 basis points more than  China ’s.  Dollar-based money managers will earn 19 percent including
interest on rupee investments by December 2012, almost twice the
returns on  South Korea ’s won, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee, down 15 percent against the
dollar this year, strengthened 1.8 percent to 52.69 per dollar
today. The currency will gain 7.5 percent to 49 by the end of
next year, the median forecast of 19 strategists surveyed by
Bloomberg shows.  Pressure from  opposition  lawmakers forced the government to
suspend its plan last week to allow companies such as
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to operate in
India. While policy makers say that the entry of foreign
retailers will help curb price growth, opposition parties say
the move will wipe out small shopkeepers’ jobs. Singh said that
his government will pursue the proposal next year “as inflation
will come down by then, which will strengthen the confidence in
our government.”  Food Inflation  India’s wholesale-price index rose 9.11 percent in November
from a year earlier, the least in 12 months, government data
showed this week, contributing to a 25-basis drop in benchmark
yields in December.  Food inflation  in the nation was 4.35
percent in the week ended Dec. 3 from a year earlier, the least
since February 2008, Commerce Ministry data showed yesterday.  Yields on 8.79 percent bonds due in November 2021 were
little changed at 8.49 percent before today’s monetary-policy
review. The central bank will leave the repurchase rate
unchanged at 8.5 percent, according to all 14 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  Sensex Slides  Global funds have raised their ownership of rupee-
denominated bonds by $7.6 billion this year to a record $25.2
billion, attracted by the yield advantage over U.S. Treasuries.
The difference in  yields  between India’s sovereign notes and
similar-maturity  U.S. debt  was 657 basis points, or 6.57
percentage points, compared with 462 basis points at the end of
last year.  “Opening up the retail industry will create positive
sentiment,” Ravi Ranjit, chief manager at Mumbai-based Federal
Bank Ltd., said in an interview yesterday. “There will be an
expectation of dollar inflows.”  While international investors have added to holdings of
India’s debt, they have cut ownership of the nation’s shares.
Foreign funds sold $311 million more local equities than they
bought this year, according to exchange data, contributing to a
22 percent drop in the BSE India Sensitive Index.  “There are short-term issues sometimes, over which we
don’t have any control,” said Prime Minister Singh, who led the
 Reserve Bank of India  for three years from 1982. “I am sure
investors are wise enough to distinguish between short-term
aberrations and long-term prospects. We will make every effort
to make India an eminently bankable and credit-worthy economy.”  Default Swaps  The cost of  protecting  the debt of  State Bank  of India,
considered a proxy for the nation, has dropped nine basis points
from this year’s peak of 395 basis points reached on Oct. 4,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated
markets. The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Global funds will want to see “action, more than words”
before investing further in India, according to Mumbai-based
Development Credit Bank Ltd.  “There would have to be a huge improvement in the
political and policy scenario before we see inflows,” Naveen Raghuvanshi, a Mumbai-based currency trader at Development
Credit Bank, said in an interview yesterday. “The market would
have to stabilize first. I don’t see any improvement for now.”  Raghuvanshi predicts that the rupee may drop to 55.50 per
dollar by the end of the month.  ‘Noble Thought’  Singh’s pledge is a “noble thought” and will boost
confidence among global investors, according to Crisil Ltd., the
Indian unit of ratings company Standard & Poors.  “The path of opening up and attracting foreign investment
is irreversible,”  Dharmakirti Joshi , a Mumbai-based economist
at Crisil, said in an interview yesterday. “I expect foreign
investment to increase gradually.”  India’s bonds have returned 1.7 percent this month, the
third-best performance among 10 Asian local-currency debt
markets monitored by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Growth in India’s  economy  should spur investor confidence
in the nation, according to Singh. India’s gross domestic
product will rise 7.5 percent in 2012, more than four times the
rate of growth in the U.S. and the euro zone, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  “India means business, and we have been growing around 7.5
to 8 percent,” Singh said. “Where else will you find an
economy of India’s size maintaining such growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  