-- Russia’s UN Resolution on Syria Violence Criticized by U.S.
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2011-12-16T00:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/russia-introduces-draft-resolution-on-syria-at-un-1-.html
Russia  introduced a draft resolution
today at the  United Nations  Security Council in response to the
violence in Syria, drawing criticism from the U.S. and  France .  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in Washington that
the U.S. doesn’t support the resolution because it presents “a
seeming parity” between the Syrian government, which has used
deadly force against opponents, and “the peaceful protesters
and other Syrians who are trying to defend themselves.”  The text, which doesn’t call for sanctions in step with the
 Arab League , isn’t balanced and the language reflects
equivalence of violence by the government and by protesters,
French Ambassador Gerard Araud told reporters at the UN.  The draft “demands that all parties in  Syria  immediately
stop any violence irrespective of where it comes from.”  The Russian initiative, which caught council members by
surprise, came soon after news that Syrian army defectors had
killed 27 members of President Bashar al-Assad’s security
forces. Russia and  China  used their vetoes to stop a European-
drafted Oct. 4 resolution that sought to pressure Assad to stop
killing.  Russia, which sells weapons to Syria, argues that the UN-
sanctioned NATO bombing of  Libya  was abused to bring about
regime change and that Western governments were seeking to
repeat that scenario in Syria. The draft says “nothing in this
resolution shall be interpreted as an authorization of any sort
of military action in Syria by anyone.”  Renewed Calls for Action  The  Security Council  received renewed calls for
intervention in Syria this week after the UN’s top human-rights
official raised the estimated civilian death toll in the country
to more than 5,000. Assad’s government should be investigated
for crimes against humanity, said UN High Commissioner for Human
Rights Navi Pillay.  “Ruthless repression” may soon plunge Syria into “civil
war,” Pillay said in prepared remarks.  Efforts by the U.S. and  Europe  to take action against Syria
in the Security Council have been blocked by Russia and China as
violence has spiraled, raising concerns that it might spread to
Lebanon and other countries in the region.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov criticized the
“immoral” position the West has taken on Syria and said it was
ignoring violence by the Syrian opposition. Russia continues to
think that sanctions are counterproductive, Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said today.  Compromise Sought  Clinton, who said she hasn’t read the full Russian measure,
said the U.S. and its allies on the Security Council will
discuss the draft with the Russians.  “Hopefully, we can work with the Russians who, for the
first time, at least are recognizing that this is a matter that
needs to go to the Security Council,” Clinton said at the State
Department in  Washington .  “There are some issues in it that we would not be able to
support,” she said, citing the violence parity question.  Clinton said the Russian measure also will be reviewed with
the Arab League, which has taken the lead on Syria. The group
has postponed a meeting on Syria due to be held in Cairo on Dec.
17, Egypt’s state-run Middle East News Agency reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  