-- Russian Industrial Output Rises 3.9%, Faster Than Forecast
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2011-12-15T16:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/russian-industrial-production-rises-3-9-faster-than-forecast.html
Russian industrial- production  growth
accelerated last month, beating economist forecasts as
electricity generation increased.  Output rose 3.9 percent in November compared with a year
earlier after a 3.6 percent increase a month ago, the Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow said today in an e-mailed
 statement . The median forecast in a Bloomberg  survey  of 17
economists was for growth of 3.6 percent.  The increase suggests Russia’s economy is accelerating even
as  Europe ’s debt crisis and slower growth in  China  threaten to
damp demand for the country’s exports. Growth may be as much as
4.5 percent this year, up from 4 percent last year, Deputy
Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said this week.  The results show a “stabilization or slight moderation of
output growth in Russian industry,”  Alexander Morozov , chief
economist for Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States
at HSBC Holdings Plc in Moscow, said in an e-mailed note.  The Micex Index of 30 stocks rose 1.5 percent to 1,393.61.
The ruble rose against the dollar for the first time in 11 days,
strengthening to 31.79 at the close in Moscow.  Manufacturing grew 4.9 percent in November from the same
period last year, while utilities advanced 3.2 percent, the
statistics service said. Output at mines rose 1.3 percent.  “ Russia ’s economy is working at the limit of its
production capacity,” Anna Bogdyukevich, an economist at OAO
Gazprombank in Moscow, said by e-mail. “Given the low
investment growth, which is restrained by uncertainty over
future demand, growth rates for industrial output will slow in
the coming months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  