-- Scene Last Night: Ackman, Robbins, Taubman, Shleifer, Samberg
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2011-12-15T16:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/scene-last-night-ackman-och-robbins-taubman-shleifer-mondre-samberg.html
What a spread -- sushi and more
sushi -- and what a dais.  More than 30 people arrayed in tiers at the front of the
New York Hilton ballroom last night included Alan “Ace”
Greenberg, former  Bear Stearns  chief;  William Ackman  of Pershing
Square Capital Management LP, Daniel Och of  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC (OZM)  and Lawrence Robbins of Glenview Capital
Management.  The occasion was the  UJA-Federation of New York   Wall Street 
Dinner, organized by the group’s Wall Street and Financial
Services Division. A tradition for almost 50 years, this
installment drew 1,200 guests and raised $22 million for the
philanthropy, which serves needy Jews and non-Jews in New York,
Israel and around the world.  Highlights: Comedian Susie Essman’s liberal dropping of the
F-bomb; an Occupy Wall Street moment when an uninvited woman
began speaking her mind at the dais (security guards escorted
her out, with Essman joking that the woman was her mother); and
plenty of networking by the likes of  Gary Cohn  of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , Greg Mondre of Silver Lake Management LLC, Robert Kapito of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , and  Arthur Samberg , formerly of Pequot
Capital Management Inc., who is now managing his own money.  The honorees were Paul Taubman, co-president of
institutional securities at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , who received the
Gustave L. Levy Award; and Scott Shleifer, a managing director
at Tiger Global Management LLC, who received the Wall Street
Young Leadership Award.  SPAM Champ  Shleifer won a SPAM-eating contest at the  University of
Pennsylvania , according to Jonathan Harris, president of
Alternative Investment Management LLC, who introduced him.  Scott’s mother, Susan Shleifer, said he loved playing
Monopoly and Trivial Pursuit growing up in Portland, Oregon. He
also learned a lot by working in the family’s business, a
furniture store started by his great grandfather.  “I brought my son up to have a merchant mentality,” said
Scott’s dad, Stuart Shleifer. “That means, keep your eyes on it
closely, whatever ‘it’ is.”  Shleifer told a story about JDate, the dating website.
After he researched the company, Tiger Management Group invested
in parent Spark Networks and he joined the board.  One day Laura Lauder, a fellow board member, asked him if
he gave back to the Jewish community. She then made
introductions for him at the UJA-Federation of  New York .  Matchmaker  “So JDate made a match, but not the kind it intended,”
said Shleifer, who is married.  Taubman’s UJA mentor was Peter W. May, president and
founding partner of Trian Fund Management LP.  “He helped me realize that if we all keep to ourselves,
not everyone’s going to give or know how to give,” Taubman
said.  The evening ended with casino games and candy. Taubman
filled his miniature Chinese take-out container with Swedish
Fish.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 