-- School Obesity Rate Dips in New York From Healthy-Habit Programs
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2011-12-15T20:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/school-obesity-rate-dips-in-new-york-from-healthy-habit-programs.html
The obesity rate in grade school-
aged children in  New York  dropped 5.5 percent between 2006 and
2010 as the city started programs to boost physical activity and
encourage healthier eating habits.  The percentage of obese kids in kindergarten through eighth
grade dipped to 20.7 percent in the 2010-2011 school year, from
a 21.9 percentage rate in 2006-2007, according to a  study  done
by researchers at the city’s health and education departments.  The study, in 947,765 students, found the biggest effect
among white children, though progress was seen in all groups.
City officials attributed the drop to programs that eliminated
deep-fried food and sugary sodas in cafeterias, limited how
often junk food can be sold for fund raisers and added low-fat
milk and salad bars to school menus.  “The tide of the obesity epidemic is beginning to ebb,”
said Thomas Farley, commissioner of the  New York City  Department
of Health and Mental Hygiene, one of the agencies involved in
the research. “We see this as validation that our public health
efforts to address the obesity epidemic are beginning to work.”  The improving results follow decades of rising obesity
rates in New York and across the nation, Farley said in a
telephone interview. Nationally, about 17 percent of children
and adolescents ages 2 to 19 years are obese, or 12.5 million
children, according to the Atlanta-based U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, which released the report in its
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.  While the study didn’t prove a cause, Farley said programs
put in place under of Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  has to help. The
city also has helps teachers integrate more physical activity
into the school day, he said. The mayor is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.  Notable Changes  Parents of children said some of the changes were
noticeable.  “Over the last two years there has been an absolute
increase in healthy talk and asking kids to bring books instead
of candy for birthday celebrations,” said Alexa Aviles, a
 Brooklyn , New York resident whose six-year old daughter goes to
P.S. 172 in the Sunset Park section of Brooklyn. “There has
definitely been a push to do healthier snacks, less candy.”  Bake sales have pretty much been eliminated, she said.
Yet the school lunch food leaves a lot to be desired, Aviles
said in a telephone interview.  “It is still over-processed, frozen food that is heated
up,” she said. Some of the vegetables are unrecognizable to her
daughter, so she packs her kid a lunch each day.  Salad Bar Access  Ellie Krieger hosts the show Healthy Appetite on the
Cooking Channel, and has a nine year old daughter at P.S. 75 in
 Manhattan . She said school lunches are far healthier than they
used to be. Her daughter has access to a salad bar.  “The changes in school food are tremendous,” she said in
a phone interview.  Marion Nestle, a professor of food science and public
health at  New York University , said the declining child obesity
rate, if confirmed in longer term research, would represent the
first truly positive development in years.  “There numbers are very impressive,” she said by
telephone. “There just hasn’t been good news about  childhood
obesity  at all.”  New York City’s health department has been “astoundingly
aggressive” in its attempts to fix the problem, Nestle said. If
the numbers keep going in the right direction, “this is going
to set an example for cities everywhere,” she said.  Outside Schools  Outside schools, the city has started a program to give
additional permits for street vendors who agree to sell fruits
and vegetables in low-income neighborhoods, according to Farley.
It has also closed off city blocks in some places to give kids a
place to play.  “Obesity happens because they live in an environment where
it is too easy to eat too many calories,” Farley said.  The study included data from the education department
gained from measurements of body weight, muscular strength and
other physical parameters that were taken from children starting
in 2005 under a program that sends home a fitness report card.  The decrease in obesity was largest among white children
and kids of Asian descent, and smaller among black and Hispanic
kids, the study found.  “This is a turning point in the epidemic,” Farley said.
“We are not by any means declaring victory.”  Separately, New York today is establishing new rules to
ensure healthier food options in vending machines in city
buildings. The rules will limit the amount of calories and fat
allowed in foods in such vending machines. It is also putting in
place an obesity task force among various city agencies to find
new strategies to reduce obesity, according to a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  