-- SEC Says Father and Son Used Mormon Ties for $220 Million Fraud
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2011-12-15T23:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/sec-says-father-and-son-used-mormon-ties-for-220-million-fraud.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission accused a father and son in  Utah  of using their
membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints to
lure  investors (DJUSRE)  to a $220 million fraud.  The SEC won an emergency order to halt the alleged scheme
by Wendell Jacobson and his son Allen Jacobson, after filing a
complaint at U.S. District Court in  Salt Lake City  today, the
agency said in a statement. The men, who have raised money from
about 225 investors,  have operated the scheme since 2008, the
SEC said.  The Jacobsons offered investors the opportunity to invest
in apartment communities purchased at discount rates with the
aim of renovating and selling them within five years, the SEC
said. In reality, the investments are suffering significant
losses and the Jacobsons have merely pooled investors’ money
into large bank accounts from which they siphoned funds to pay
family and outside business expenses, according to the SEC.  “Wendell and Allen Jacobson misled investors to believe
they were financially supporting what was portrayed as a
widespread and reputable operation to revamp apartment
communities and turn a significant profit,” Ken  Israel , head of
the SEC’s regional office in Salt Lake City, said in a
statement. “Their promises were anything but truthful.”  The Jacobsons falsely assured investors that the principal
amount of their investment would be safe, and that they would
receive annual returns ranging from 5 percent to 8 percent, the
SEC said. They used new investor money to pay false returns to
earlier investors to hide losses, according to the complaint.  A phone call to Mark Pugsley, the Jacobsons’ attorney,
wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  