-- SEC Appeals Judge Rakoff’s Rejection of $285 Million Citigroup Settlement
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2011-12-15T23:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/sec-appeals-rejection-of-285-million-citigroup-settlement-1-.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission appealed a federal judge’s decision to reject its
proposed $285 million settlement with  Citigroup Inc. (C)   The appeal, filed today in the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New
York, challenged U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff’s rejection last
month of the settlement, which involved claims that Citigroup
misled investors in a $1 billion financial product linked to
risky mortgages.  “We believe the district court committed legal error by
announcing a new and unprecedented standard that inadvertently
harms investors by depriving them of substantial, certain and
immediate benefits,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami 
said today in a statement.  Rakoff criticized the agency’s practice of resolving cases
without requiring the subject of the allegations to admit
wrongdoing. In his ruling, Rakoff said the settlement didn’t
provide him with “any proven or admitted facts” to inform his
judgment.  Khuzami said the judge’s decision “is at odds with decades
of court decisions that have upheld similar settlements.”.
Rakoff’s approach “could in practical terms press the SEC to
trial in many more instances, likely resulting in fewer cases
overall and less money being returned to investors,” he said in
the statement.  ‘Twin Risks’  The SEC said a settlement such as the one struck with
Citigroup “puts money back in the pockets of harmed investors
without years of courtroom delay and without the twin risks of
losing at trial or winning but recovering less than the
settlement amount -- risks that always exist no matter how
strong the evidence.”  Khuzami said that the accord was based on a careful review
of the risks and benefits and said that settling without any
admission serves investors. Other frauds might never be
investigated because the government’s limited resources will be
tied up in unresolved litigation, he said.  He said that the SEC is “fully prepared” to refuse to
settle and proceed to trial when proposed settlements fail to
achieve the right outcome. The agency said that it doesn’t
settle in 70 percent of the civil actions against individuals
and doesn’t reach agreements with 42 percent of entities sued by
agency.  In lawsuits such as the one against Citigroup, the law
doesn’t entitle the SEC to recover the amount lost by investors
and instead only allows a monetary penalty up to the amount of a
defendant’s ill-gotten gain, Khuzami said.  ‘Factual’ Defense  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, said the
New York-based bank disagrees with the court’s rejection of the
settlement. The agreement “fully complies with long-established
legal standards,” she said.  If the case went to trial, she said, “we would present
substantial factual and legal defenses to the charges.”  The SEC, in a filing today, notified Rakoff it would appeal
his ruling.  In an earlier case, Rakoff criticized the SEC’s practice of
allowing financial institutions to settle enforcement actions
without admitting or denying the agency’s allegations. In 2009,
Rakoff, a former federal prosecutor and civil litigator,
rejected a $33 million agreement between the SEC and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)   Ex-Director’s Case  In his Citigroup ruling, Rakoff consolidated the SEC’s case
against the bank with its lawsuit against Brian Stoker, former
director of the company’s CDO structuring group. Stoker was
responsible for structuring and marketing the investment,
according to an SEC complaint filed last month.  The judge noted that, in its complaint against Stoker, the
SEC claimed Citigroup knowingly withheld information from
investors that it intended the fund to include poorly rated
assets, an allegation missing from the agency’s complaint
against the bank.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-cv-07387, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Federal Court in  New York  at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  