-- SEC Cheaper Than Finra on Adviser Oversight, BCG Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 2011-12-15T22:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/sec-cheaper-than-finra-for-regulating-investment-advisers-bcg-study-says.html
Inspections of investment advisers
by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority may cost at least
twice as much as more frequent examinations by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, according to the  Boston
Consulting Group .  An expanded SEC oversight program is estimated to cost from
$240 million to $270 million a year, compared with $550 million
to $610 million annually for examinations and enforcement by
Finra as well as SEC supervision of Finra, according to the
study released today, which was conducted by the Boston-based
firm.  BCG was hired by several adviser industry groups, including
the Investment Adviser Association, which represents SEC-
registered investment advisers, to do the report and an online
survey of 424 investment advisers. The study evaluated the costs
of three options the SEC recommended in January for improving
oversight of advisers. The firm didn’t consult or interview the
SEC or Finra for either the report or the survey.  “This is not a debate just about costs,” David Tittsworth, executive director of the Washington-based IAA, said
at a press conference after the report was released. “Unlike
the SEC, Finra does not have the experience or the expertise to
regulate investment advisers.”  The SEC released a  report  in January recommending three
options for strengthening oversight of investment advisers,
including levying fees on advisers to fund inspections by the
SEC, authorizing one or more self-regulatory organization
subject to SEC oversight to examine advisers, and giving Finra,
the self-funded regulator for the securities industry, authority
to oversee advisers that are also registered as broker-dealers.  ‘Wildly Inflated’  “The cost projections in this study of Finra becoming the
self-regulatory organization for investment advisers are wildly
inflated,”  Howard Schloss , executive vice president of
corporate communications and government relations, said in a
statement. “The fact that the Boston Consulting Group never
asked to sit down with Finra or the SEC to discuss projected
costs of  investment adviser  oversight is evidence this study was
never a serious attempt to explore costs.”  The study is supported by publicly available data and BCG
is “very confident in the analysis and in the findings,” said
Gary Shub, a partner with the firm.  Draft Legislation  Congress has been considering authorizing a self regulator
to examine registered investment advisers. In September,
Representative  Spencer Bachus , chairman of the House Financial
Services Committee, circulated draft legislation that would
charge one or more self-regulatory groups, under the authority
of the SEC, with overseeing advisers. The Alabama Republican’s
legislation didn’t specify a group that should be chosen.  Formal legislation is planned to be “proposed and ready
for committee consideration” in “early spring,” Jeff Emerson,
spokesman for the House Financial Services Committee, said in an
e-mail.  More than 80 percent of investment advisers said they would
rather work with the SEC than with Finra, assuming the fees they
pay would be lower with the SEC, according to the BCG survey.
About 58 percent of respondents said they would prefer SEC
regulation even if oversight by the commission was twice as
expensive as oversight by the self regulator.  SEC Experience  “The SEC has had the job for 71 years,” said Skip
Schweiss, managing director of advisor advocacy and industry
affairs for  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) ’s unit that provides
custodial and brokerage services to advisers. “I don’t think
anybody would posit that the SEC has done a perfect job every
day of those 71 years, but they’re good at it, they’ve done it a
long time, and I know they’re working hard to standardize and
streamline their examination process.”  The BCG report isn’t the first time advisers have said they
prefer the SEC.  “Continued and enhanced SEC oversight allows current
policy to continue without interruption,” Susan John, chair of
the National Association of Personal Financial Advisors, said in
a press release after the SEC report came out in January. “A
change in this policy could have unneeded and problematic
consequences.”  Napfa, which is a membership group for advisers who don’t
charge commissions, also hired BCG to do the study, along with
the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards Inc., the
Financial Planning Association and TD Ameritrade Institutional.  Frequency of Inspections  The average registered investment adviser is reviewed by
the SEC less than once every 11 years given the current rate of
examinations, according to the January SEC report. The BCG study
assessed the costs of increasing the frequency of visits to once
every four years.  “We look forward to reviewing the report,”  John Nester , a
spokesman for the SEC, said in a statement.  Richard Ketchum , chairman and chief executive officer of
Finra, told a subcommittee of the House Financial Services
Committee in September that giving the SEC the authority to
designate a self regulator would be “the most practical and
efficient way” to improve oversight of advisers.  “Given our experience operating a nationwide program for
examinations and our ability to leverage existing technology and
staff resources to support a similar program for investment
advisers, we believe we are uniquely positioned to serve as at
least part of the solution to this pressing problem,” Ketchum
said in prepared remarks.  Cost Differences  Setup costs for making Finra the overseer of advisers were
estimated to be from $200 million to $255 million, compared with
$6 million to $8 million for the SEC, the BCG report said. The
study assumed Finra would need to create a separate unit to
handle the adviser reviews.  Estimated ongoing costs were higher for Finra in part
because the study included enforcement costs in its estimate of
annual expenses and didn’t include enforcement costs in its
estimate of ongoing costs for the SEC. Annual expenses for Finra
regulation also included the cost of SEC oversight of the self
regulator, which may be $90 million to $100 million a year.  There were about 11,888 federally registered investment
adviser firms managing about $38.3 trillion in 2010, according
to the SEC report. The number of advisers has increased by about
39 percent from 2004 when there were 8,581 advisers managing
about $24.1 trillion. Registered investment adviser firms
provide advice to investors including individuals and
institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at 
 rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 