-- Senate Leaders Say They’re Closer to Resolving Payroll Tax, Spending Snags
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2011-12-15T17:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/senate-leaders-say-they-re-closer-to-resolving-payroll-tax-spending-snags.html
U.S. Senate leaders in both parties
say they are optimistic they can resolve the remaining
differences over a payroll  tax-cut  extension and a broad $1
trillion spending bill funding most federal agencies, two issues
stalling completion of congressional work for the year.  On the Senate floor this morning, Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said his office and Senate
Appropriations Committee Chairman Daniel Inouye, a Hawaii
Democrat, are “pretty clear” about a handful of remaining
issues in the spending measure. He said he and Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell  are closer to agreement on areas of
dispute in the payroll tax cut measure, and the congressional
session could end “at a reasonable time in the next few days.”  McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, also said today that he
thinks both sides can resolve remaining issues in a few days.  “We are confident and optimistic we’ll be able to resolve
bills on a bipartisan basis,” McConnell said.  The negotiations on the payroll measure are part of an
effort to extend a two-percentage-point tax cut for workers
before it expires Dec. 31. The  payroll tax  funds Social
Security.  Votes on versions of the payroll tax cut bill could come as
soon as this afternoon, said Senator Mark Begich, an Alaska
Democrat.  “I think there will be some movement that gets us down the
road,” he said.  ‘Cannot Leave’  President  Barack Obama  said Congress “should not and
cannot” leave for a holiday break until it passes the extension
of the payroll tax cut and additional unemployment insurance.
Failure to act “wouldn’t be good for the economy,” the
president said in Washington today.  In a move that could ease year-end negotiations,  Senate
Democrats  late yesterday dropped their demand for a surtax on
income exceeding $1 million as long as Republicans abandon
efforts to expedite approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL
oil pipeline.  House Republicans  included the provision about the
pipeline, along with a handful of others that Democrats don’t
like, when it passed a $202.4 billion payroll tax cut measure
earlier this week. Republicans in both chambers rejected the
idea of a surtax on millionaires this fall.  As the payroll tax cut’s expiration nears, Senate leaders
face increasing pressure to offer an extension plan that can win
passage in the chamber. While Democrats control 53 of the
chamber’s 100 seats, Republicans have used procedural tactics,
requiring 60 votes for approval, to thwart Democratic proposals.  ‘Open’ to Suggestions  Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , who helped organize
the Democratic message in support of a surtax on millionaires,
said yesterday that he wouldn’t “draw any lines in the sand.”  “We want to get a bill and we want to pass a payroll
tax,” he told reporters. “We believe a millionaire’s tax is
the best way to do it. We’re open to other suggestions.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  said today that there is “some
movement” toward resolution marked by a new willingness by
Democrats to compromise. At the same time, he said, it was clear
that the surtax on millionaires can’t pass Congress, and he
continued to support the pipeline project as a job creator that
should remain in any compromise.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, told reporters that
Republicans are ready to wind down the year and want to both
resolve the payroll tax issue and prevent a partial government
shutdown that would occur tomorrow without an end to the fight
over  spending.  ‘Take a Deep Breath’  “There is absolutely no interest on our part in trying to
be strident about this,” he said. “We think it’s important to
keep the government open and we think it’s important to extend
the payroll tax cut” and expanded  unemployment insurance .  “This isn’t the first time I’ve seen end-of-year work get
knotted up,” Boehner said. “Everyone needs to step back and
take a deep breath. There is an easy way to untangle all this”
by letting lawmakers “do their jobs.”  To that end, he said, “an open process” in the Senate
debate to allow amendments to the payroll package “would help
us get to a resolution much more quickly.”  “It’s time to legislate,” he said.  Representative  Nancy Pelosi  of  California , the Democratic
leader in the House, said today that Congress must act soon. She
also said Democrats won’t support a spending bill if Republicans
force a vote on it before a deal is reached. “They won’t be
getting any cooperation from us,” she said.  Both sides must find a method of offsetting the costs of a
payroll tax cut measure in their negotiations. Any final package
will probably include an extension of  unemployment benefits  and
a provision averting a cut in reimbursements to physicians who
provide care to Medicare patients.  Democrats have resisted some of the Republican proposals to
cover the cost, including pay freezes for civilian federal
workers and a requirement that high-income Medicare recipients
pay a greater share of their premiums.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, said the cost of the entire bill doesn’t need
to be covered. He said he doesn’t think lawmakers have to pay
for extending expanded unemployment benefits.  “Historically we’ve not paid for unemployment and now if
we have to pay for it, we have to find the source,” Durbin
said.  Begich said Democrats would probably draw on a “selection
of ideas” from the deficit-reduction supercommittee to cover
the cost of the bill.  “How it all ends up, I think, is hard to say,” he said.  In a separate decision that could speed end-of-year work,
Reid also said the Senate could consider a $662 billion defense
authorization measure later today. Final approval would send it
to Obama to be signed into law.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  