-- Serbia Targets 2012 Budget Gap at 4.25% of GDP With 1.5% Growth
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2011-12-15T16:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/serbia-targets-2012-budget-gap-at-4-25-of-gdp-with-1-5-growth.html
Serbia  will narrow its budget gap
next year to 4.25 percent of gross domestic product to fulfill
pledges made to the International Monetary Fund, Deputy Finance
Minister Dusan Nikezic said.  The deficit target set in the draft 2012 budget, which the
government adopted today and forwarded to parliament, compares
with a gap of 4.5 percent of GDP this year and is based on
economic growth of 1.5 percent in 2012, compared with a similar
amount in the latest government forecast for this year.  “The government has adopted the budget that is realistic,
rational and contains elements of an anti-crisis policy,”
Nikezic told a press conference in Belgrade today. The draft
includes a central budget shortfall of 140 billion dinars ($1.8
billion), with revenue planned at 750 billion dinars and
expenditures at 890 billion dinars.  Keeping the gap within 4.25 percent of GDP was agreed to
with the  International Monetary Fund , which approved in
September a 1 billion-euro ($1.3 billion) precautionary loan for
Serbia in case  Europe ’s debt crisis triggers capital flight from
the Balkan economy, putting pressure on its currency and the
balance of payments.  A Finance Ministry report released earlier today showed
Serbia’s January-November fiscal deficit at 120 billion dinars,
compared with a full-year target of 142.7 billion dinars.  Public Debt  The narrower fiscal deficit in 2012 should in part offset
an increase in Serbia’s public debt, which has already hit 44.8
percent of GDP, just below the self-imposed limit of 45 percent
of GDP. An immediate measure the government has taken this month
was to halt any further borrowing in the local market to keep
the public debt target under control.  The government will mainly rely on the local-market
borrowing to finance the deficit next year.  "We have not planned a new eurobond issue for deficit
financing but I can’t exclude that it may be considered in the
course of 2012," Nikezic said  Serbia is still emerging from its worst recession in a
decade and the government is trying to boost tax collection and
keep spending under control without cutting social benefits just
months before general elections next spring.  The ruling coalition, led by the  Democratic Party  of
President  Boris Tadic , relies on a lean majority of 126 deputies
in a 250-seat parliament, and a failure to pass the budget by
the end of December would trigger temporary financing, which
limits spending to what was available in the corresponding
three-month period of the previous calendar year.  ‘Refuse to Finance’  Earlier this week, economic research institute FREN said
fiscal conditions in Serbia have been deteriorating for two
consecutive quarters due to shrinking personal spending, falling
employment and declining real wages and if the government wants
to rely on market financing of its deficits it must stick with
policies that aim to lower the gaps to avoid a debt crisis.  “There is a chance that investors at one point, which is
difficult to predict, assess that Serbia is insolvent and then
refuse to finance its fiscal deficit and the repayment of
matured debts, which would mean the beginning of the debt
crisis,” FREN’s chief economist and central bank’s board member
Milojko Arsic said on Dec. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  