-- Sino-Forest Investor Richard Chandler Calls for Change in CEO, Management
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2011-12-15T23:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/sino-forest-s-shareholder-richard-chandler-calls-for-new-ceo-directors.html
Billionaire investor  Richard Chandler , the biggest shareholder in Sino-Forest Corp., said the
Chinese timber company that’s fending off fraud allegations
needs to change its chief executive officer and appoint new
directors.  There are “serious concerns” about the ability of the
board of Sino-Forest to fulfill its responsibilities, Richard
Chandler Corp., Chandler’s  investment company , said in a
statement yesterday. Chandler and Sino-Forest’s second-biggest
shareholder, Davis Selected Advisors LP, have said the company
should reconsider its decision to default on a $9.78 million
interest payment on its 2016 convertible notes.  Sino-Forest’s shares dropped 74 percent in Toronto trading
after Carson Block, a short seller, said in June that the
company had overstated its timber assets in  China . Hong Kong-
and Mississauga, Ontario-based Sino-Forest has denied the
allegations and formed an independent committee to investigate
them. The stock has been suspended from trading in Toronto since
August by  Canada ’s main securities regulator, which is also
conducting a probe.  “Any actions by directors, such as the non-payment of
bonds, which compromises the going concern capability of Sino-
Forest will potentially lead to shareholder actions for
negligence,” Chandler said.  Sino-Forest said Dec. 12 it wouldn’t make the interest
payment due Dec. 15 on the convertible notes and it would miss a
deadline for publishing its third-quarter earnings. Chief
Executive Officer Judson Martin said last month that the company
was considering options including going private.  ‘Best Interests’  “Sino-Forest and its board are completely focused on
acting in the best interests of all stakeholders,” Sino-Forest
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Chandler, a New Zealander who Forbes said last year had a
net worth of $3.1 billion, owns 19 percent of Sino-Forest,
according to  data (TRE)  compiled by Bloomberg. Richard Chandler Corp.
spent at least C$148 million ($143 million) in July and August
to increase its holdings after the plunge in Sino-Forest shares,
the data show.  Chandler is concerned about “excessive time and money
spent by the board on the investigation, the weak internal
controls acknowledged by management, the unexplained delay to”
the third-quarter results,’’ his investment company said in its
statement. It also cited the delay to the final report from
Sino-Forest’s independent committee and the non-payment on the
bonds despite the company having sufficient funds.  Davis ‘Shocked’  The plunge in Sino-Forest’s shares has cost investors about
C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion), according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Hedge fund Paulson & Co., formerly Sino-Forest’s
largest shareholder, sold its entire 12.5 percent stake in June,
telling clients it had lost C$462 million since May 31 on the
investment.  Davis said yesterday it was “shocked” by Sino-Forest’s
failure to make the payment on its bonds. Davis said it holds
more than 17 percent of the company.  “Because your published findings express no concern that
this company is a going concern with real assets, we would
strongly ask you to reconsider your recent decisions and take
all steps necessary to protect shareholders,” Tucson, Arizona-
based Davis said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  