-- SNB Maintains 1.20 per Euro Limit for Franc: Analysts’ Comments
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2011-12-15T11:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/snb-maintains-1-20-per-euro-limit-for-franc-analysts-comments.html
Analysts comment on  Switzerland ’s
central bank decision to leave its limit on the franc unchanged,
resisting pressure from exporters to further curb the strength
of the currency.  The  Swiss National Bank , led by Philipp Hildebrand, today
kept the franc’s minimum exchange rate at the 1.20 per euro
limit it set Sept. 6, in line with the estimates of nine out of
13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The comments were made in client notes today:  Tim Davis , a currency strategist at Morgan Stanley in London:  “The SNB may be slightly less concerned about the strength
of the franc than previously. Hence, following this statement,
we would assign a markedly lower probability that the SNB raises
the floor above the 1.20 level, that is unless this level was to
be tested. We expect euro-Swiss to trade heavily through the day
and expect the floor to hold in the short term. However, we
continue to believe that the floor will be tested next year if
sentiment surrounding the eurozone deteriorates further.”  Adam Cole, head of global currency strategy at RBC Europe Ltd.
in London:  “The SNB maintained the euro-Swiss floor, disappointing
those that had expected a rise (ourselves included) on the back
of recent softer-than-expected inflation data. Although Chairman
Hildebrand said the SNB stands ready to take further action ‘at
any time,’ other aspects of the statement suggest further
significant ‘news’ is required to provoke a move.  ‘‘While Hildebrand’s comments leave open the possibility of
an intra-meeting move (the next meeting is March 15), the hurdle
appears to be quite high, with CPI required to be sufficiently
weak to suggest ‘temporary’ deflation is turning into something
more malignant.’’  Simon Smith , chief economist at foreign-exchange broker FXPro
Group Ltd. in London:  ‘‘The outlook for the eurozone has deteriorated and the
political backdrop has also weighed on the single currency into
the year-end. This will likely mean that the SNB could be doing
more work to defend the 1.20 level on euro-Swiss, let alone
thinking about moving it to 1.25 or beyond. But this will have
to happen next year if Switzerland is to avoid a more entrenched
period of deflation.’’  Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency analyst at Swissquote Bank SA
in Geneva:  ‘‘The statement went pretty much as expected with concern
expressed over the pace of slower growth and the decline in
inflation. The central banks obviously highlighted the
escalation in the European credit crisis. For us this was the
key reason the SNB did not adjust the euro-Swiss floor’’ higher.  ‘‘We suspect that the knee-jerk reaction in euro-Swiss will
be short lived as most believe that the SNB will repeg in the
first quarter of 2012. The SNB credibility remains intact and
they reiterated their commitment to the ‘floor’ by being
prepared to buy foreign exchange in unlimited quantities.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  