-- IPhones Guide Artillery as Pentagon Plans App Store
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2011-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/soldiers-iphones-guide-artillery-fire-as-pentagon-plans-app-store-tech.html
At Camp Blessing in  Afghanistan ’s
Pech Valley, some American soldiers played “Angry Birds” on
their iPhones when off-duty. Jonathan Springer decided to put
his device to a different use: building an app to help fight the
Taliban.  “I wanted to give something back to soldiers that might
help save their lives,” Springer, 32, said in an interview from
his base at Fort Bragg,  North Carolina .  The result is  Tactical Nav , an iPhone application the U.S.
Army captain built with $30,000 of his savings and a maxed-out
 credit card  a year ago. The $5.99 app uses GPS technology and
the iPhone’s camera to chart coordinates and guide artillery
fire. It has been downloaded about 8,000 times by U.S., Canadian
and Australian soldiers, as well as hunters and hikers, Springer
said. From e-mails he has received from soldiers who have gone
on patrol with it, the app has been used in both combat and
training, Springer said.  If Teri Takai gets her way, American soldiers, sailors and
marines may all soon be able to download Tactical Nav and other
military programs through a dedicated U.S. Defense Department
app store. Takai, the department’s chief information officer,
wants to build a secure network of smartphone apps to help
soldiers fight in new ways, from more precise maps to better
manuals. If security challenges get resolved, the project will
result in a revenue source for app developers and a potential
boon for iPhones, iPads and Android devices.  “We would like a full range of devices to be able to
securely operate with a DoD app store, but also be able to
utilize commercial app stores,” Takai said in an interview in a
small, windowless conference room at the Pentagon in Arlington,
Virginia.  Combat Innovation  The Pentagon, whose research arm spawned the first version
of the Internet in the 1960s, is now turning to technologies
developed by civilians as it seeks to make its fighting force
nimbler. Takai’s challenge is to create an environment in which
soldiers can improvise on devices like Apple Inc.’s  iPhone and
iPad (AAPL)  without letting the Pentagon’s security standards slip.  Soldiers “in a fight innovate and use all the technologies
they have,” said Kenneth Minihan, who was director of the
National Security Agency from 1996 to 1999. “It’s a very
natural phenomenon to come out of troops in combat.”  Minihan runs Paladin Capital Group, a Washington-based
company that invests in security-technology companies including
software maker Fixmo Inc. He said the Pentagon is right to
embrace these new innovations.  “If you go back to the Cold War, it was government-
developed technology that we would introduce into the commercial
sector,” Minihan said. “Today most of those technologies come
from the private sector and get introduced to the public sector
-- it’s the reverse.”  Android Rising  A wide selection of consumer apps has fueled the popularity
of Apple’s iPhone and devices built on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software at the expense of  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry,
which offers fewer apps. Faced with demands to reduce costs,
government agencies are looking at adding security software to
make Apple and Android devices safe enough to let employees use
their own phones and tablets at work.  Takai says for the moment the Defense Department will
continue to issue only BlackBerrys, the devices that rose to
prominence in  Washington  a decade ago because of the security
they offer. If Apple and Android devices can be built to be more
secure, then the Pentagon is open to the notion of deploying
those alongside BlackBerrys, particularly if that will save
money, she said.  IPads for Marines  “In the immediate future, we’re not envisioning a bring-
your-own device” policy, she said. However, “anytime we can
introduce a competitive environment for anything we buy, that
gives us an opportunity to make it most cost-effective.”  Contracts to supply the U.S. military or government with
iPhones and iPads could be a source of additional revenue for
Apple. There are about 650,000 BlackBerry users within the U.S.
government and RIM has earned at least $395 million in sales
from the government in the past decade, including $84 million so
far in 2011, based on contracting data compiled by Bloomberg
Government.  The Pentagon is running test programs with Marine Corps
aircrews using the iPad for mapping, while the Army is
evaluating the iPhone as a training tool. Still, getting iPhone
and Android approved for official Defense Department use will
probably take “years rather than months,” even if the devices
are already being used on the battlefield, Minihan said.  That pace of change is frustrating, Springer said.  “It’s great that the Pentagon is moving in this
direction,” he said. “I just wish it were happening quicker.”  Tackling Bureaucracy  After Springer’s app was introduced in January 2011, the
government asked to see the code behind it, Springer said. He
declined and said he has since heard little from the government,
which he said he interprets as a tacit “green light” to keep
selling it.  “People have told me, ‘We like what you’re doing and the
initiative to change the bureaucratic system, but we can’t help
you,’” said Springer, who continues to serve as a captain at
Fort Bragg. He declined to give names of officials who have
given him the feedback.  Knight’s Armament Co. , based in Titusville,  Florida , has
been supplying rifles and night-vision scopes to the U.S. Army
and Marines for three decades. Now it’s also promoting
BulletFlight, a $30 ballistics app that incorporates the
inclinometer and weather apps built into an iPhone to help
soldiers calibrate their weapons more quickly.  Military officials have told Knight’s that it’s accurate to
within 0.1 percent of the larger, bulkier ballistics computers
that cost 10 times as much, Trey Knight, the company’s marketing
director, said in an interview. Still, that doesn’t mean the
product has received official endorsement from the Pentagon.  ‘Vulnerability’  The Pentagon’s Takai says that balancing soldiers’ needs
with security policy is one of her biggest challenges. Before
joining the Pentagon last year, Takai was CIO of the state of
 California . She previously worked in state government in
Michigan, and before that, spent 30 years at  Ford Motor Co. (F)   “You have a senior person say ‘Well, gee, I have an iPad
at home and love it and don’t tell me that with today’s
technology you can’t make it work,” she said. “And I have to
go back and say ‘Well sir, ma’am, yes in fact there are
circumstances where that commercial technology doesn’t fit with
our security requirements.’”  The open-source Android operating system, for instance, had
an almost sixfold increase in threats such as spyware and
viruses since July,  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  said last month.  ‘Great Opportunities’  Takai said she is careful about systems that don’t
replicate RIM, which operates secure servers for each government
client and gives them the encryption keys to those servers.  “They’re software solutions and the challenge is they have
a certain vulnerability” that RIM doesn’t have, she said.  To date, the encryption used in the BlackBerry and RIM’s
PlayBook tablet is the only one certified as secure by the
government’s  National Institute of Standards and Technology ,
which establishes what can used by federal employees.
Independent labs are testing the encryption of devices including
iPhone and iPad under the guidance of NIST.  The  Defense Information Systems Agency  establishes
guidelines for military devices in collaboration with NIST. The
only smartphone it has endorsed for use on defense networks is
the BlackBerry.  Apple and Android devices are something the Pentagon can’t
ignore because of their surging popularity with younger
staffers, Takai said. Android’s share of the global smartphone
market share more than doubled to 53 percent in the third
quarter as RIM fell to 11 percent from 15 percent, according to
research firm Gartner Inc. Meanwhile the iPad is outselling the
PlayBook by about 100 to 1.  “We have young folks that want to bring them into this
place,” Takai said. “We see great opportunities for these
devices in terms of being able to get applications much more
quickly in the hands of our war fighters. As long as we can do
it in a secure way, it’s another communication mechanism that
would be very beneficial.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  