-- Sony Says New Vita Portable Player Sold Out in Japan Advance Ordering
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2011-12-15T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/sony-says-new-vita-portable-player-sold-out-in-pre-ordering.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , the world’s second-
largest video-game console maker, said it sold out the new
PlayStation Vita portable player in pre-ordering in  Japan .  “There were lines to make reservations for the machine at
retailers,” Andrew House, chief executive officer of Sony
Computer Entertainment, told reporters in  Tokyo  today. He
declined to provide the number of orders.  Sony will introduce the Vita on Dec. 17 in Japan as the
successor to its PSP handheld model, which went on sale in 2004.
The company started taking advance orders on Oct. 15 for the
Vita, which has a 5-inch display using OLED, or organic light-
emitting diode, technology and touch pads.  Japan’s largest electronics exporter is relying on games to
bolster earnings as its main Bravia television business faces an
eighth straight year of losses. In August, the Tokyo-based
company cut the price of the PlayStation 3 game console,
released in 2006, to revive sales.  Sony and  Nintendo Co. (7974) , the world’s biggest maker of video-
game machines, are facing increased competition from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
as gamers flock to the Cupertino, California-based company’s
iPhone and iPad to play titles such as Rovio Mobile Oy’s “Angry
Birds.”  Sony fell 1.5 percent to 1,345 yen at the close of Tokyo
trading. The stock has declined 54 percent this year, the sixth-
biggest drop on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  The Vita is priced from 24,980 yen ($320) for the Wi-Fi
model and 29,980 yen for the 3G model, which can be connected
using  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) ’s mobile-phone network, Sony said in
September. The company plans to introduce the portable player in
the U.S. in February, priced from $249.  Sony vs. Nintendo  The Vita is pricier than Nintendo’s competing model. The
Kyoto, Japan-based company cut the price of the 3DS, its 3-D
handheld player, by 40 percent to 15,000 yen in August. A lack
of popular titles forced Nintendo to reduce the price less than
six months after it was introduced.  Sony signaled in August that the company won’t engage in a
price war with Nintendo.  House became head of Sony’s video-game division in
September. He was previously head of Sony Computer Entertainment
 Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  