-- Sony Rating Cut by Fitch on Losses From TVs, Acquisitions
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2011-12-15T11:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/sony-rating-cut-to-bbb-by-fitch-on-financial-performance.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Japan ’s biggest
consumer-electronics exporter, had its rating cut to one level
above junk by  Fitch Ratings , which cited difficulties reviving a
money-losing TV business and deals that won’t improve profit.  The long-term ratings were slashed to “BBB-” from
“BBB,” Fitch said in a statement today. That is the last of
the 10 investment grades by the ratings company, which also
slashed Sharp Corp.’s rating to BBB-, citing increasing
competition in the TV market.  Fitch assigned a negative outlook to Sony and said a
further downgrade by one level is likely within two years,
according to the statement. Chief Executive Officer  Howard Stringer  has announced $8.4 billion of acquisitions this year as
the Tokyo-based maker of Bravia TVs and Walkman music players
tries to compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  while forecasting a fourth
consecutive loss, a first since it began trading in 1958.  “Sony’s balance sheet has worsened,” said Ichiro Takamatsu, a portfolio manager at Tokyo-based Bayview Asset
Management Co., which manages about $2 billion. “Sony is
pressed to rebuild its business model, as televisions are no
longer a cash cow. The company needs to develop something
innovative that can integrate its software like Apple.”  Former Position  Satsuki Shinnaka, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Sony,
declined to comment, citing the company’s policy not to comment
on a third-party evaluation.  Sony’s investments to take full control of its mobile-phone
venture with Ericsson AB and acquiring EMI’s publishing business
won’t improve profitability in the short term, Fitch said. The
operating environment for Sony is likely to remain tough because
of weak demand from developed markets, a stronger yen, floods in
 Thailand  and the aftermath of Japan’s March earthquake, it said.  “The downgrade reflects Sony’s weakened financial
performance and the agency’s belief that the company will face
challenges in recapturing its former strong position in key
markets,” Nitin Soni, an associate director at Fitch, said in
the statement.  Sony had 377 billion yen of bonds and 364 billion yen of
long-term borrowings as of March 31, according to its financial
statement.  The company needs to pay or refinance 358 billion yen of
debts next year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
will decrease to 241 billion yen the following year, the data
show.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps insuring Sony’s debt against non-
payment rose to 151.3 basis points yesterday from 49.1 basis
points at the start of the year, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps protect bonds against default and
traders use them to speculate on  credit quality . A drop signals
improving perceptions of creditworthiness.  Sony shares fell 1.5 percent to 1,345 yen in Tokyo trading
today, taking their year-to-date loss to 54 percent. By
comparison, Apple shares have gained 18 percent this year.  Last month, Sony predicted a fourth consecutive annual loss
of 90 billion yen in the year ending in March 2012, reversing an
earlier forecast for a profit of 60 billion yen, citing
worsening demand for TVs. Sony is the world’s No. 3 TV maker
behind  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   Sony also lowered its annual sales target for TVs, personal
computers, compact cameras and Blu-ray DVD players last month.  Last month,  Standard & Poor’s  put Sony’s “A-” long-term
ratings on review for a possible downgrade, saying there are no
signs of a halt to the deterioration in earnings at the TV
operations.  Moody’s Investors Service said in October it was
considering lowering its “A3” rating for Sony after the
company said it would buy out Ericsson’s stake in their venture
for 1.05 billion euros ($1.5 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  