-- Sony’s Vita Debuts Squeezed Between Nintendo Price, Smartphones
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2011-12-17T01:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/sony-s-vita-player-trapped-between-nintendo-pricing-smartphones.html
More than 100 game fans queued
before 7 a.m. this morning outside a store in Tokyo’s Shibuya
shopping district, awaiting the release of  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s
PlayStation Vita.  “I can’t wait to open the box and play,” said Fumito Ito,
23, who was among the first to purchase the new game device. “I
look forward to playing against others.”  Sony aims to revitalize its game business and lure
consumers increasingly turning to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones for
entertainment. Success with Vita is critical for Sony in a
gaming landscape reshaped by price cuts from larger  Nintendo Co. 
and the growing popularity of Rovio Mobile Oy’s “Angry Birds”
on smartphones, analysts said.  “Serious gamers may bolster Vita demand in the beginning,
but what Sony needs is casual gamers to sustain sales,” said
Satoru Kikuchi, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.
“Sony may need to cut the price as early as next year to keep
attracting buyers. It’s a difficult time for console makers.”  Profit from the new portable console also is key to Chief
Executive Officer  Howard Stringer ’s efforts to offset a slumping
TV business that’s put the world’s No. 2 video-game maker on
course for a fourth straight annual loss.  “The ultimate portable entertainment device is now
available,” Executive Deputy President  Kazuo Hirai  said today
at a press conference. “We would like to introduce a new way of
gaming.”  A Wi-Fi version of the Vita, the first major overhaul of
the handheld since the PlayStation Portable went on sale in 2004,
costs 24,900 yen ($319 in  Japan ), while the 3G model costs
29,980 yen.  Sold Out  The device, with a 5-inch display using OLED, or organic
light-emitting diode, technology and touch pads, already sold
out in pre-ordering in Japan, said Andrew House, chief executive
officer of Sony Computer Entertainment.  “There were lines to make reservations for the machine at
retailers,” House told reporters in Tokyo on Dec. 15. He
declined to provide sales figures.  House’s comments came the same day Sony, Japan’s biggest
consumer-electronics exporter, had its rating cut to one level
above junk by  Fitch Ratings , which cited difficulties reviving
the TV business and deals that won’t improve profit.  Loss  Tadayoshi Sugaya, who cooks pasta dishes at an Italian
restaurant in Tokyo, wasn’t among the Vita’s customers.  “I’m happy playing games on my smartphone,” said the 39-
year-old chef, who uses  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy model
to play mahjong and other games. “I don’t see much need to buy
a game player.”  The Consumer Products and Services Group -- Sony’s biggest
by revenue and maker of TVs, games and cameras -- had a loss of
34.6 billion yen in the quarter ended Sept. 30, compared with a
loss of 35.5 billion yen a year earlier.  Sony rose 1.1 percent to 1,360 yen at the close in Tokyo
trading. The stock has declined 54 percent this year, while the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average has lost 18 percent.  Reviving demand is important to help Tokyo-based Sony
recover from its worst hacker attacks in April, when intruders
compromised more than 100 million customer accounts in the
second-largest online data breach in U.S. history. Sony
suspended those services until July and budgeted 14 billion yen
in costs this year.  The device will miss this year’s shopping season in the
U.S., where it will debut in February and is priced at $249.99
for the Wi-Fi version and $299.99 for the 3G model.  Nintendo 3DS  That’s more expensive than  Nintendo ’s competing 3DS after
the world’s biggest maker of video-game machines slashed prices
of the new 3-D handheld player to as low as $170 because of poor
sales. Nintendo sold more than 795,000 of the 3DS portable units
last month, the Kyoto, Japan-based company said Dec. 10, citing
figures from researcher NPD Group Inc.  Sony has a “very good product” at a “very affordable
price” and, therefore, won’t cut prices of the Vita in response
to other companies, Hirai said in August.  Sony expects to sell 15 million of the PlayStation 3
consoles this fiscal year, up 4.9 percent from last fiscal year,
after the company lowered prices in August.  The Vita is part of Sony’s strategy to link its TVs, Blu-
ray players, game consoles and digital cameras via the Internet
to movies, music and video games. Sony also is increasing online
services, including the PlayStation Suite that allows users to
download games on devices running on Google Inc.’s Android
software.  24 Titles  There will be 24 titles available when the Vita goes on
sale, Sony has said. They include the “Unchartered” adventure
game, which costs 4,900 yen to download, and “Everybody’s Golf
6,” priced at 3,900 yen.  By comparison,  Nintendo  had eight titles when it began
selling the 3DS in February. The 3DS allows users to see 3-D
images without wearing special glasses.  “The number of titles is truly impressive, so there is no
risk that people will wait to buy,” said  Michael Pachter , a Los
Angeles-based analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. “The price
point is the biggest obstacle.”  The iPod Touch media player, the cheapest Apple device that
can download and play games, costs $199 in the U.S. while the
iPhone 3GS is free with a wireless contract. Apple sold 17.07
million iPhones and 11.12 million iPad tablet computers, which
can also be used to play games, in its fiscal fourth quarter.  In a similar strategy, Sony is consolidating its multimedia
devices. In October, the company agreed to buy Ericsson AB’s 50
percent stake in their mobile-phone venture to integrate the
smartphone business with its gaming and tablets.  That still won’t entice Ai Takenaka, 28, to buy the Vita
because she can get free titles from  Apple’s AppStore  and
Google’s  Android Market .  “I like to play simple games with my smartphone because
they are all free,” the  Tokyo  restaurant worker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  