-- Sotheby’s Handles Lockout, Pay Costs Rise, Ruprecht Gets Bonus
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2011-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/sotheby-s-handles-lockout-costs-rise-2-4-million-ruprecht-given-bonus.html
A four-month labor dispute at
 Sotheby’s (BID)  has brought out actress Susan Sarandon and hundreds of
Occupy Wall Street protesters on an issue that comes down to who
gets to haul the Chippendales and Picassos.  A month after a three-year contract expired, the New York-
based auction house imposed a lockout on July 29 on the 42 union
workers known as art handlers. Their job involves moving
expensive collectibles from showroom to salesroom for waiting
bidders.  Sotheby’s said the lockout prevented the workers from
scheduling a strike to cause maximum disruption and cost to the
auction house.  The handlers belong to  Local 814  of the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters, which has accused the auctioneer of
seeking savings that will weaken the union and cut pay. During
the lockout, the handlers receive  unemployment benefits  plus
$200 a week from their union. Their health insurance expires in
January, the union said.  “You have to decide what’s more important to you, watching
‘Barney’ or eating,’” said handler Roger Ousley, a father of
four who temporarily suspended  cable television  in his Bronx
home.  Sotheby’s, which is using temporary workers to handle items
for auction, said it’s eager for a resolution. The temps and
enhanced security since the lockout began helped account for a
$2.4 million jump in “other compensation” expenses in the
first nine months of the year, offset partially by savings in
full-time salaries, according to a Nov. 9 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “This is the last thing we wanted,” said Diana Phillips,
a company spokeswoman.  Paring Workweek  The auctioneer proposed cutting the handlers’ workweek to
36 1/4 hours from 38 3/4 hours and increasing the number of
temporary laborers, according to both sides. The union said new
work rules would decrease eligibility for overtime, resulting in
take-home pay declining 5 percent to 15 percent.  Temporary workers without medical or pension benefits would
replace unionized art handlers as they retire or find other
jobs, the union said.  “The people who leave would not be harmed, but the new
jobs would be throwaway jobs,” said Jason Ide, the president of
Local 814.  Sotheby’s says the change in work rules won’t eventually
result in handlers being all non-union. The two sides have
continued to negotiate, including a 4-hour session on Dec. 12.  ‘War on Workers’  Since the lockout began, Sarandon appeared outside
Sotheby’s Manhattan headquarters on Oct. 18, photographed with
the placard, “Stop the War on Workers.” Occupy Wall Street
protesters twice joined the picket line. The workers have
succeeded in disrupting events involving Sotheby’s board members
and posted videos of the confrontations on the Internet.  Yet the union campaign hasn’t made a material dent in
financial results, the auctioneer said in the Nov. 9 filing. The
handlers, whose work includes packing and shipping of art and
collectibles, plus installing and dismantling exhibitions, said
the temporary replacements are less skilled than they are and
more likely to damage works. Sotheby’s has conducted dozens of
auctions with temporary workers since the lockout started.  Asher Edelman, an  art dealer  who also lends money to
clients, said bidders who avoided protests were able to buy via
telephone.  “Generally speaking, the so-called 1 percent is not really
anti-poor,” Edelman said. “It’s just uninterested.”  Former Typist  Chief Executive Officer William Ruprecht, who started at
Sotheby’s three decades ago as a typist in the rug department,
assured handlers the dispute isn’t personal, the workers said.
But Ide said the cost cutting hasn’t extended to his pay, which
doubled last year to $6 million.  “We do think it’s ironic that the entire union contract
costs $3.3 million and Mr. Ruprecht got a raise for $3
million,” Ide said. Unionized handlers start at $15.89 an hour,
increasing to $20 and up depending on years of  service . They
said overtime is a key component of annual pay.  Ruprecht’s 2011 total compensation hasn’t been reported.
But a Sotheby’s filing said he was issued $4.25 million in
“performance share units” this year that vest over four years
upon attainment of undisclosed “performance goals.” And his
2010 employment contract entitles him to a salary of $700,000
and ‘an ‘annual target bonus” of $1.4 million, which can be as
large as $2.8 million, based on metrics set by the compensation
committee.  Phillips declined to comment.  To contact the writer on the story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 