-- ArcelorMittal, Anglo Court Win Boosts Confidence in South Africa
-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2011-12-15T16:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/south-africa-judge-sets-aside-granting-of-sishen-right-to-ict.html
A court victory for  ArcelorMittal
South Africa Ltd. (ACL)  and a unit of  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  that
overturns a mining rights award to a company with political
connections boosts faith in the country’s justice system,
lawyers and fund managers said.  “An opportunistic ploy by a politically connected company
with no mining experience has been completely thwarted,” Peter
Leon, the Johannesburg-based head of mining and energy at law
firm Webber Wentzel, wrote in an e-mail. “The judgment further
strengthens confidence in the independence of the judiciary.”  Sishen  Iron Ore  Co., owned by Anglo unit Kumba Iron Ore
Ltd. and  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) , holds 100 percent of the right
to the Sishen deposit, Judge Raymond Zondo said in the Pretoria
court today. A government department erred in awarding 21.4
percent of the resource to Imperial Crown Trading 289 (Pty)
Ltd., he said. Imperial’s owners include Jagdish Parekh, a
business partner of President  Jacob Zuma ’s son, Duduzane.  ArcelorMittal South Africa, which was also part of the
claim, previously held the right given to Imperial. The stock of
the local unit of the world’s biggest steelmaker surged the most
in 2 1/2 years in Johannesburg.  “This is an excellent ruling,” Peter Major, head of Cadiz
Corporate Solutions’ mining and resources unit, said by mobile
phone. “International investors would think this is a fair
outcome. Anything else would have been biased.”  ‘Creates Confidence’  Sishen is the largest iron ore mine in a nation that has
the world’s biggest reserves of platinum, 30 percent of gold and
supplies coal to  power plants  in  India  and  Europe .  South Africa 
is home to two of the world’s four biggest gold miners and the
two largest platinum producers.  President Zuma was cited as saying by Business Day
newspaper on Nov. 2 that the nation’s executive is superior to
the nation’s judiciary and the courts shouldn’t interfere with
the policies of government.  “The decision to overturn the granting of the right shows
the court acknowledges flaws in the administrative process,”
Jean Pierre Verster, an analyst at 36ONE Asset Management (Pty)
Ltd., said by phone from Johannesburg.  Zondo said his full ruling will be available on Dec. 20.  “We are delighted that the judgment has confirmed that
Sishen Iron Ore is the only holder of the mining rights over
Sishen and that no other person including Imperial holds or may
be granted competing rights,”  Kumba (KIO)  said in an e-mailed
statement. “With regards to the interpretation of the Mineral
and Petroleum Resources Development Act, we need to await the
full judgment and the reasons for the court’s decision.”  Lapsed Agreement  ArcelorMittal South Africa’s Sishen right lapsed after it
failed to apply for a license by April 30, 2009, to satisfy a
change in legislation.  Ownership of the nation’s mineral resources, previously
held by mining companies or private landowners, reverted to the
state when the new mining legislation was enacted in 2004, and
is now allocated to companies by government officials on a
first-come, first-served basis.  ArcelorMittal South Africa’s failure to convert the permit
caused a nine-year agreement to supply iron ore from Sishen at
below-market prices to lapse, as the contract is linked to the
mining right, Kumba said.  ArcelorMittal (MT)  disputes this, saying in
a February 2010 statement the contract was canceled. The
agreement is subject to a separate arbitration process.  ArcelorMittal South Africa is “pleased about the ruling,”
spokesman Themba Hlengani said in an interview. “It confirms
our long-held view Kumba applied for and was granted 100 percent
of the right in the first instance.”  Arbitration ‘Easier’  “The ruling will make it easier for ArcelorMittal to show
in arbitration that the supply agreement cannot be set aside,”
as Sishen Iron Ore was awarded the full 100 percent when it
converted its right, Mohamed Kharva, an analyst at Nedgroup
Securities Ltd., said by phone from  Cape Town .  ArcelorMittal South Africa shares rallied 9.5 percent, the
most since April 2009, to 66 rand by the close in Johannesburg.
Kumba added 0.8 percent to 500 rand.  Imperial will appeal the ruling “early in the new year,”
Ronnie Mendelow, the company’s lawyer, said in  Pretoria .  The Department of Mineral Resources, which opposed the
action, will await the full judgment on the ruling before
commenting and will take legal advice on how to proceed, it said
in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  