-- South Carolina Seeks to Halt Immigration Law Suits Until High Court Ruling
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2011-12-15T18:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/south-carolina-seeks-to-halt-immigration-law-suits-until-high-court-ruling.html
South Carolina  Governor Nikki Haley
asked a judge to temporarily halt a lawsuit over the state’s new
statutes aimed at immigrants while the  U.S. Supreme Court 
considers a challenge to  Arizona ’s immigration law.  “To say that this case before the Supreme Court is
important to the instant suit would be an understatement,”
South Carolina’s lawyers said in a filing today in federal court
in Charleston. “A ruling by the Supreme Court in Arizona is
likely to resolve most or all of the issues in the instant
case.”  The state is seeking to freeze lawsuits brought by the
 Justice Department  and civil liberties advocates to block South
Carolina’s laws from taking effect on Jan. 1. The contested
measures include making it a crime for immigrants to fail to
carry papers showing they’re in the U.S. legally and requiring
police officers to verify the immigration status of anyone
suspected of being an illegal alien.  The federal government has argued that the South Carolina
statute interferes with its ability to set national immigration
policy, while rights groups claim it violates the Constitution’s
protection against unreasonable searches and guarantees of due
process. The U.S. has also challenged immigration laws passed
this year by Alabama and  Utah .  The  Supreme Court  said on Dec. 12 it would review an
appellate court ruling that blocked enforcement of the Arizona
measure.  U.S. District Judge Richard M. Gergel ordered the U.S. and
the civil rights organizations to respond to the Haley
administration’s request no later than tomorrow. A hearing on
whether enforcement of the laws should be blocked is scheduled
for Dec. 19.  The cases are U.S. v. South Carolina, 11cv2958, and
Lowcountry Immigration Coalition v. Haley, 11cv2779, U.S.
District Court for the District of South Carolina (Charleston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  