-- Allen Stanford ‘Not Credible’ on Amnesia Claim
-- B y   L a u r e l   C a l k i n s
-- 2011-12-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/stanford-s-amnesia-claim-not-credible-based-on-medical-report-u-s-says.html
R. Allen Stanford, charged with
leading a $7 billion investment fraud, may be faking amnesia and
should be tried in January as scheduled, prosecutors said,
citing a prison medical evaluation.  Stanford’s scores on medical and neuropsychological tests
“were sufficiently low as to evidence that he either was not
trying or was faking,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregg Costa
said, citing a doctor’s report. The prosecutor, in the proposed
court order filed yesterday, asked U.S. District Judge David Hittner in Houston to find Stanford competent to stand trial.  A doctor who evaluated the defendant at a federal prison in
Butner,  North Carolina , “concluded that Stanford’s performance
indicated that he was ‘blatantly simulating cognitive
defects/known to be malingering,’” Costa said.  Stanford, 61, has been imprisoned as a flight risk since
his June 2009 indictment on charges of defrauding investors
through a scheme built on allegedly bogus certificates of
deposit at Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  Hittner delayed the trial, which had been set for last
January, after three doctors testified that Stanford was
incapable of assisting in his defense. They said Stanford had
become addicted to anxiety drugs prescribed in prison and could
be suffering lingering effects of a head injury suffered in a
2009 inmate assault.  ‘No Viable Alternative’  Ali Fazel, Stanford’s lead criminal-defense attorney, urged
Hittner in a separate court filing to reject the Butner medical
evaluation and continue delaying Stanford’s trial. Fazel asked
the judge to rely on the testimony of experts Stanford’s defense
team plans to present at a competency hearing next week in
Houston.  “The accused’s mental condition has not so improved as to
permit the proceedings to go forward,” Fazel said in a proposed
order asking Hittner to find Stanford unfit for trial, citing
the addiction and head-trauma issues. “The court has no viable
alternative but to disagree” with the Butner doctors’
certification of Stanford’s competency, he said.  “We believe the Butner report the government is citing
doesn’t indicate what they say it does,” Fazel said in a brief
phone interview. He declined to comment further, citing
Hittner’s order barring attorneys from publicly discussing the
case.  ‘Retrograde Amnesia’  Stanford first began complaining of “extensive retrograde
amnesia” from the jailhouse attack sometime after he arrived at
Butner in February, according to the prosecutors’ filing.
“Stanford has recently repeatedly claimed being ‘completely
amnestic to his life prior to the assault, stating that 59 years
were stolen,’” Costa said in the filing, citing the Butner
report.  Stanford claimed to be unable to recall life events
“including his romantic encounters with various female
partners, past vacation and holiday activities with his
children, visits with famous politicians, as well as details of
his business and banking operations,” Costa said. Stanford
claimed family members had to “educate” him about his previous
life, and the former billionaire “indicated feeling bad after
being informed by his family that he was known as a
‘womanizer,’” Costa said, citing the Butner report.  Prosecutors claim Stanford skimmed more than $1 billion of
investor funds to finance a lavish lifestyle that included a
fleet of jets and yachts, several mansions and a private
Caribbean island, as well as financial support for women with
whom he has had children.  Spontaneous Recall  “FMC Butner concluded that Stanford’s complaints of  memory
loss  were ‘not credible’ based on the fact that he had ‘no
difficulty spontaneously recalling personal and business
information” during the period after his September 2009 assault
and before he got to Butner, Costa said in the filing.  Prison staffers, who monitored Stanford’s inmate e-mail and
phone conversations, said he appeared to have no trouble
discussing certain current events and personal experiences with
family members while still incarcerated in Houston following the
attack, Costa said in the filing. Stanford also represented
himself in May 2010 at a Houston court hearing, where he “spoke
cogently and with significant recall of events in arguing his
case,” Costa said.  Robert Bennett and Kent Schaffer, both former Stanford
attorneys, “also confirmed that, following the assault,
Stanford did not have any difficulty recalling information that
predated the assault,” according to the filing.  Brain Scan  In addition to more than 16 different neuropsychological
tests administered by prison and outside doctors, Stanford
underwent a magnetic brain scan in March that showed “no
evidence of damage to any part of Stanford’s brain that
processes memory,” Costa said. “Specifically, the neurologist
found that Stanford’s reported memory deficits were ‘grossly out
of proportion to expected memory loss’ from a head trauma,”
Costa said.  Stanford’s defense team has tried “to excuse Stanford’s
suspiciously low performance on the tests on the ground that he
was depressed and sleep deprived,” Costa said in the filing. He
said the doctors who evaluated Stanford for his defense offered
no explanation “as to why, even assuming depression and
fatigue, Stanford’s performance would be worse than subjects
with advanced dementia or mental retardation.”  If Hittner determines Stanford is mentally fit, his trial
will begin Jan. 23.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  