-- State Grid, Oman Oil, Brookfield to Bid for Portugal’s Sale of REN Stake
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2011-12-15T15:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/state-grid-oman-oil-brookfield-to-bid-for-portugal-s-sale-of-ren-stake.html
The  Portuguese government  said it
approved State Grid International of  China , Oman Oil Co. and
Brookfield Infrastructure Group Corp. as bidders in the planned
sale of stakes in REN- Redes Energeticas Nacionais (RENE)  SA.  National Grid Plc  withdrew a proposal, Luis Marques Guedes,
the secretary of state for the presidency of the council of
ministers, said today at a press conference in Lisbon. The
government aims to complete the sale as soon as possible,
Marques Guedes said.  Portugal  in April became the third euro-area country after
Greece and Ireland to request a bailout from the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund . As part of that aid
package, the government will sell its stakes in energy companies
including REN and utility EDP-Energias de Portugal SA.  Portugal on Dec. 7 said it plans to sell a stake of as much
as 40 percent in Lisbon-based REN, the operator of the country’s
electricity and gas grids. The bidders must present binding
proposals to buy 5 percent to 25 percent.  Shares of REN have declined 25 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of 1.04 billion euros.  The government has hired Caixa Banco de Investimento SA and
Perella Weinberg Partners as financial advisers on the sale of
the stakes in  EDP (EDP)  and REN.  REN plans to invest 3.2 billion euros ($4.2 billion)
through 2016 in new lines and substations, as well as natural
gas storage facilities and pipelines. The state holds 51 percent
of REN.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  