-- Swiss Franc Gains Most in Three Months Versus Euro After SNB Maintains Cap
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2011-12-15T16:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/swiss-franc-gains-most-in-three-months-versus-euro-after-snb-maintains-cap.html
The  franc  surged the most in three
months against the euro after the  Swiss National Bank  refrained
from introducing further measures to weaken the exchange rate at
a policy meeting today.  The Swiss currency appreciated versus all of its 16 major
counterparts, rising 2 percent against the South Korean won and
1.7 percent versus  Taiwan ’s dollar. SNB policy makers led by
Philipp Hildebrand kept the franc’s ceiling at 1.20 per euro at
the meeting in Zurich, in line with the estimates of nine out of
13 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The SNB also
maintained its benchmark  interest rate  at zero.  “There had been a growing sense that the SNB may well
decide not to lift the ceiling, in part because of the
problematic euro,” said Michael Derks, a market strategist at
FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in  London . The franc is unlikely
to rise further because “the dollar is the preferred safe-haven
currency, the Swiss safe-haven demand has been diminished by the
SNB’s previous actions, and the economy is now most likely in
recession,” he said  The franc gained 1.1 percent to 1.2238 per euro at 4:23
p.m. London time, after climbing as much as 1.3 percent, the
most since Sept. 5. The currency appreciated 1.4 percent to
94.03 centimes per dollar. It fell to 95.48 centimes before the
central bank’s announcement, the weakest since Feb. 17.  The SNB has defended the exchange-rate ceiling since it was
established in September to halt a strengthening of the currency
as investors sought a haven from the euro-area debt crisis.  ‘Further Measures’  “The SNB stands ready to take further measures at any time
if the economic outlook and the risk of deflation so require,”
Hildebrand said, as he and fellow policy makers Thomas Jordan
and Jean-Pierre Danthine briefed journalists in Bern after the
meeting. The credibility of the currency’s ceiling is “solidly
anchored in the market,” he said.  The franc is “still high” and the economy may stagnate in
the current quarter, the central bank chief said. The minimum
 exchange rate  helped correct “the massive overvaluation” of
the franc, lowering risks for the Swiss economy, he said.  Deteriorating economic data and comments from lawmakers had
prompted speculation the SNB would further weaken the franc
because a strong currency is seen as a barrier to trade and
economic growth in  Switzerland .  The government on Dec. 13 lowered its forecast for economic
growth this year to 1.8 percent from a September prediction of
1.9 percent. Growth in 2012 is estimated at 0.5 percent, from
0.9 percent. The economy expanded 0.2 percent last quarter, the
least in two years, the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs
said Dec. 1. Consumer prices fell 0.5 percent in November.  ‘Knee-Jerk Reaction’  “The statement went pretty much as expected with concern
expressed over the pace of slower growth and the decline in
inflation,” Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency analyst at
Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva, wrote in an investor note. “We
suspect that the knee-jerk reaction in euro-Swiss will be short
lived as most believe that the SNB will re-peg in the first
quarter of 2012.”  The Swiss currency has weakened 3.1 percent in the past
three months, paring its gain for the year to 1.4 percent,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies.  The franc, seen as a haven in times of turmoil, gained as
much as 37 percent against the euro in the year before the SNB
imposed the limit on Sept. 6, as European leaders failed to
contain the debt crisis. The currency appreciated to a record
1.0075 per euro on Aug. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  