-- Sygnis Pharma Says Stroke Drug AX200 Failed to Meet Study Goal
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2011-12-15T21:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/sygnis-pharma-says-stroke-drug-ax200-failed-to-meet-study-goal.html
Sygnis Pharma AG ’s experimental
AX200 protein-based treatment for strokes failed to meet the
primary goal of a mid-stage study, after a trial of the
medication showed no difference for people treated with placebo.  “The study recorded no clinical improvement and did not
show any statistically significant difference,” the company
said in a statement today. “Sygnis Pharma will continue to
analyze the current data set and the new data that will become
available in the weeks ahead.”  The trial was based on 328 patients in  Europe , the company
said. The drug is the Heidelberg, Germany-based biotechnology
company’s only product in development. Sygnis decided in October
2010 to cut its workforce in half as it adopted a strategy
focused on getting AX200 to market.  AX200 is a protein that enhances the body’s production of a
substance that helps it respond to damage to the brain.
Researchers studied the drug’s efficacy in stopping nerve-cell
death and regenerating damaged tissue within hours of an acute
stroke. It was given to patients over a three-day period at 70
centers across eight countries in Europe. The last patient
completed treatment Nov. 2, the company said.  Dietmar Hopp, the co-founder of business-software maker  SAP
AG (SAP)  who is Sygnis’ biggest investor, agreed in June to provide
funding for the company to complete the trial and continue
operations through the end of 2012.  Bigger drugmakers including AstraZeneca Plc have failed to
develop treatments for strokes, which occur when blood supply to
the brain is interrupted by a clot or burst vessel. About 15
million strokes are reported annually worldwide, with 5.5
million deaths, according to  World Health Organization  figures.  “The top line data should be important in terms of the
strategy of the company,” Igor Kim, an analyst with Close
Brothers Seydler Research AG, said in an interview before the
AX200 trial results were disclosed.  The treatment is made from a living organism and considered
a biologic, which is more difficult and costly to develop than a
drug based on a chemical reaction, Kim said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  