-- Syrian Military Defectors Kill 27 Soldiers in Darra as Conflict Spreads
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2011-12-15T15:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/syrian-commanders-gave-direct-orders-to-use-force-group-says.html
Syrian army defectors killed 27
members of President Bashar al-Assad’s security forces in an
attack at dawn, the  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said.  The attack in the southern governorate of Daraa, where the
nine-month uprising against Assad began, came after eight Syrian
soldiers died in an ambush by deserters near Hama. At least 32
civilians were also killed yesterday.  Human Rights Watch  accused
Syrian military and intelligence officials of giving both
“direct and standing orders to use lethal force.”  Syria ’s repression of protests has led to defections from
the army and an escalation of clashes in which both sides are
armed. Assad has blamed the unrest on foreign provocateurs and
the government has used tanks, armored vehicles and artillery to
crush the uprising.  “The statements of soldiers and officers who defected from
the Syrian military and intelligence agencies leave no doubt
that the abuses were committed in pursuance of state policy and
that they were directly ordered, authorized or condoned at the
highest levels of Syrian military and civilian leadership,” New
York-based  Human Rights Watch  said in a  report  published today.  The group put the death toll at more than 4,000, while the
 United Nations  estimates the number of civilians and army
defectors killed exceeds 5,000. The government says more than
1,100 members of the security forces have been killed.  Canadians Evacuating  Canada  will start helping to evacuate its citizens from
Syria, Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister  John Baird  said in an
e-mailed statement. Canada will expedite the issuance of
documents needed to leave Syria, said Baird, citing the
possibility that embassy services may be reduced “without
warning” if the situation in the country deteriorates.  Human Rights Watch documented killings, torture and the
arbitrary arrest of thousands of civilians by the Syrian
government, acts that it said “were committed as part of a
widespread and systematic attack against the civilian population
and thus constitute crimes against humanity.”  The organization said the findings of its report are based
on interviews with 63 defectors from the army and intelligence
agencies. It said military commanders and intelligence officials
“gave both direct and standing orders to use lethal force
against the protesters, as well as to unlawfully arrest, beat
and torture the detainees,” adding that Assad and other top
officials “bear command responsibility.”  In an interview with ABC News on Dec. 7, Assad denied
ordering the killings.  “There was no command to kill or be brutal,” he said.
“They are not my forces. They are military forces that belong
to the government. I don’t own them.”  ‘Gross Violations’  UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay told the
15-member UN  Security Council  in  New York  this week that the
situation in Syria was “intolerable” and said “gross
violations” committed by Assad’s security forces should be
referred to the  International Criminal Court .  About half of the defectors interviewed by Human Rights
Watch said that the “commanders of their units or other
officers gave direct orders to open fire at protesters or
bystanders, and, in some cases, participated in the killings
themselves.” The organization, citing the defectors, said the
protesters “were not armed and did not present a significant
threat to the security forces at the time.”  Former Syrian soldiers identified by name 74 commanders and
officials responsible for attacks on unarmed protesters, Human
Rights Watch said, adding that eight defectors told the
organization they witnessed officers or intelligence agents
killing military personnel who refused to follow orders.  Efforts by the U.S. and  Europe  to get a condemnation of
Assad’s crackdown at the Security Council have been blocked by
Russia and  China . The  Arab League  on Dec. 3 ordered a freeze on
the assets of 19 Syrian officials, a ban on their travel and a
reduction in flights to Syria because the government refused to
admit international monitors and release political prisoners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut  at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 