-- U.A.E., Qatar Kept as Frontier Markets by MSCI as Trading Volumes Decline
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2011-12-15T08:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-a-e-qatar-fail-to-secure-upgrade-to-emerging-by-msci-1-.html
The  United Arab Emirates  and Qatar
failed for a second time this year to secure an upgrade to
emerging-market status at MSCI Inc., as the Persian Gulf
countries struggle to revive equity trading.  MSCI, whose stock indexes are tracked by investors with
about $3 trillion in assets, will maintain the two countries’
frontier status and keep them under review for potential
reclassification in June, it said in a statement. The index
provider cited investors’ concern over the effectiveness of the
countries’ delivery versus payment model, and Qatar’s failure to
announce plans to relax its foreign ownership laws.  Trading volumes in  Persian Gulf stock markets (BGCC200)  have plunged
this year as foreign funds trimmed holdings of riskier assets
amid regional uprisings and as  Europe ’s debt crisis deepened.
Dubai volumes are at a six-year low and Qatar’s are about 40
percent lower than in the same period in 2009.  “I would have been happy if they said the lack of
liquidity in the markets was one of the main reasons for their
decision, but they didn’t, so I feel that they evaded the
issue,” CapM Investment PJSC’s Abu Dhabi-based Chief Investment
Officer Mohammed Ali Yasin said today. “I don’t think it was
unexpected because the market conditions in December aren’t
better than what they were in June.”  Safeguarding Assets  MSCI’s decision came after a delay in June to allow
investors time to assess the DVP models the exchanges in both
countries implemented. Market participants said there are
“significant concerns over the effectiveness of this new
framework to fully ensure the safeguarding of their assets under
certain circumstances,” the index provider said its latest
statement.  Dubai’s  DFM General (DFMGI)  Index fell 1.8 percent, its biggest
drop since Nov. 1, at 12:16 p.m. in Dubai. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  declined 0.8 percent and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  lost
less than 0.1 percent.  “Initially you may see some pressure on the shares that
were probably expected to be included in the index, like  Emaar
Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  and Arabtec Holding PJSC, but all in all we’re
going to continue in our sideways motion,” Yasin said.  Emaar’s shares tumbled 4.7 percent, the most since August,
and Arabtec lost 0.6 percent.  MSCI, which tracks economic development, trading volumes
and market accessibility to assess market classifications,
raised Israeli equities in June 2009. The country’s benchmark
 TA-25 Index (TA-25)  surged 75 percent that year.  Improving Liquidity  “The main challenge is to improve the liquidity of the
market and in particular to make it more accessible to foreign
investors,”  Paul Cooper , the Dubai-based managing director at
Sarasin-Alpen & Partners Ltd., which oversees more than $500
million in the  Middle East , said before the decision. “Raising
the foreign ownership limits will therefore be the biggest
challenge.”  Qatar’s exchange doesn’t expect foreign ownership limits in
companies, currently at 25 percent, to be raised next year, or
that short-selling will be introduced, Chairman Hussein al-
Abdullah said Dec. 4.  “Any change to the status of the MSCI Qatar Index is
conditional upon a meaningful increase of foreign ownership
limit levels applied to Qatari companies resulting in increased
foreign room,” the index provider said.  Qatar, the host of the 2022 soccer  World Cup  with a
population of about 1.7 million, forecasts economic growth of
about 16 percent in 2011. The  International Monetary Fund 
expects the nation to have the world’s fastest-growing economy
for a second year. U.A.E. economic growth will accelerate to 3.3
percent this year from 3.2 percent in 2010, according to the
fund’s estimates published in its World Economic Outlook in
September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  