-- Police Arrest Woman in Probe Into Bribing Officers Tied to Hacking Scandal
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2011-12-15T11:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-k-police-arrest-woman-in-bribery-probe-tied-to-phone-hacking-scandal.html
London  police arrested a 37-year-old
woman today as part of their investigation of bribes being paid
to officers to get scoops for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s now-defunct News of
the World tabloid.  The unidentified woman was arrested at a home in Surrey,
England, and taken to a station in London, the Metropolitan
Police said today in a statement. It’s the seventh arrest in the
probe, which is running parallel to investigations of phone
hacking and computer hacking at the tabloid.  The arrested woman is Lucy Panton, a former crime editor
for the News of the World, according to News Corp.’s Sky News
cable channel. Another News Corp. employee, 48-year-old Sun
newspaper reporter Jamie Pyatt, was arrested last month as part
of the probe, called Operation Elveden.  The five-year-old phone-hacking scandal prompted News Corp.
to close the News of the World in July and drop its 7.8 billion-
pound ($12.1 billion) bid for full control of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  Allegations of police bribery and
computer hacking triggered separate probes.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s News
International publishing unit in the U.K., declined to comment.  Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of News
International who was arrested in July, told lawmakers at a 2003
hearing that “we have paid the police for information in the
past.” Speaking to lawmakers this year, Brooks said her 2003
comment was referring to a “wide-held belief, not a widespread
practice.”  ‘Serious Criminal Offenses’  The bribery investigation began after Ken Macdonald, a
lawyer for News Corp.’s board and the former U.K. Director of
Public Prosecutions, provided police on June 20 with what he
described as “evidence of serious criminal offenses.”  Other arrests in the police corruption probe include  Clive Goodman , the News of the World’s former royal reporter, who was
jailed for phone-hacking in 2007, and former editor  Andy
Coulson , who resigned this year as press chief for U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  as the scandal unfolded. They are all
free on bail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  