-- Retail Sales in U.K. Drop More-Than-Forecast 0.4% as Recession Risk Grows
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2011-12-15T12:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-k-retail-sales-fall-more-than-forecast-as-outlook-darkens-1-.html
U.K. retail sales fell more than
economists forecast in November as cash-strapped households
shunned a second month of price discounts and chose to save
rather than spend amid warnings of a looming recession.  Sales including fuel fell 0.4 percent from October, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today in  London . The median
forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 0.3
percent decline.  Excluding auto fuel, retail sales  fell 0.7
percent on the month.  The figures underline the pressure being felt by consumers
as wages fail to keep pace with inflation and concern mounts
that the economy is following the crisis-stricken euro region
into recession. Unemployment hit a 17-year high of 2.64 million
in the three months through October and is forecast to rise
further next year.  “All in all, the picture for U.K. household consumption is
not very encouraging,” said Annalisa Piazza, an economist at
Newedge Group in London. “The labor market is extremely weak.
Average earnings run at less than half the speed of inflation
and  consumer confidence  hit record-low levels. We expect fourth-
quarter household consumption to be a drag for GDP growth.”  The pound was trading at $1.5508 as of 12:05 p.m. London
time, up 0.2 percent on the day.  The decline last month was led by food sales and a drop in
sales of household goods, jewelry, computers, phones and
carpets, the statistics office said.  Price Discounts  In the three months through November, sales rose 0.7
percent from the previous quarter. There were upward revisions
to the figures for October, with overall sales rising 1 percent
on the month instead of the previously estimated 0.6 percent as
stores brought forward promotions. On the year, sales were up
0.7 percent, beating the 0.4 percent gain forecast by
economists.  Prices, as measured by the retail sales deflator, fell by
0.4 percent in October and by 0.2 percent last month, leaving
them 3.6 percent higher than in November 2010. Discounts were
more widespread than usual for the period, the statistics office
said.  Underlying demand is “fragile” and “there is a good
chance that the recent strong performance will falter if
retailers ease up on the pace of promotional activity,” said
 Andrew Goodwin , senior economic adviser to the Ernst & Young
ITEM Club. With slowing inflation set to ease the pressure on
family budgets, “2012 is likely to be a better year for
retailers than in 2011, but only just.”  Crucial Period  Bank of England Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  said in an
interview this week that policy makers have scope to expand
their 275 billion-pound ($426 billion) bond-buying program to
aid an economy facing at least one quarter of contraction by the
middle of 2012.  The downturn comes as retailers enter the crucial Christmas
trading period. Deloitte LLP says sales this month will be no
better than last year. The prospect of slow holiday sales led
retailers including  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  and William  Morrison
Supermarkets (MRW)  Plc to start discounting in an attempt to entice
shoppers.  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest supermarket chain, said on
Dec. 8 that domestic sales declined for a fourth straight
quarter as increased joblessness and rising fuel and food bills
weighed on  consumer spending .  Retail shares (F3RETG)  have fallen more than 7 percent this month,
compared with a fall of 2.9 percent for the FT350 Index as a
whole.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) ,  Europe ’s second-largest tour
operator, yesterday added to the pessimism gripping the economy
by announcing plans to close 200 U.K. shops and scale back its
plane fleet with the possible loss of more than 600 jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  