-- U.K. May Face Derivatives-Law Setback in EU
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2011-12-16T15:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-k-said-to-face-eu-derivatives-law-setback-after-cameron-s-summit-clash.html
European Union officials may abandon
U.K.-backed safeguards on derivatives legislation, four people
familiar with the situation said, a week after Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s demands to protect London’s financial industry
almost wrecked an EU summit.  Ambassadors for the EU’s 27 nations, meeting yesterday in
Brussels, discussed weakening an October agreement to grant
national regulators powers over clearinghouses, according to the
people, who couldn’t be identified because the talks are
private. The British government has argued that the accord is
essential to protect U.K.-based clearing firms from pressure to
move part of their business to the euro area.  The possible unraveling of the derivatives deal follows
Cameron’s decision to break ranks with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  at an EU summit last
week. The U.K. leader refused to join the 26 other nations in
backing a new treaty for the bloc after he failed to secure
safeguards that would have stopped EU plans to police financial
services in  London ,  Europe ’s trading hub.  This “acts as a strong reminder that exercising the U.K.
veto last week does little to strengthen the British hand on a
range of issues of great importance to the U.K. financial
system,”  Richard Reid , research director for the International
Centre for Financial Regulation, said in an e-mail.  ECB Lawsuit  The U.K. has sued the  European Central Bank  over its plans
to prevent trades in some euro-denominated securities from being
cleared outside of the 17 countries that share the currency.
Britain also sought to thwart the ECB stance by seeking
safeguards in the draft derivatives legislation.  National officials met today for further discussions on
whether to change the October agreement, Kacper Chmielewski, a
spokesman for  Poland ’s EU presidency, said in an e-mail. He
declined to comment on the outcome of the meeting.  Polish officials and parliament lawmakers will meet on Dec.
19 to try and reach a deal on the draft law.  Lawmakers in the European Parliament “demanded” that the
October compromise be reconsidered, according to an EU document
dated Dec. 14 and obtained by Bloomberg News. The Parliament and
national governments must agree on the law before it can be
implemented.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services chief, has said
that the U.K. demands at the summit would have granted the
country an unacceptable opt-out from European rules.  Chantal Hughes, Barnier’s spokeswoman, declined to
immediately comment and the U.K. government’s office in Brussels
declined to comment.  ‘Early Indication’  Losing protection for its derivatives industry would be “a
very early indication of the potential damage done to the U.K.’s
interests on a broad front of financial regulation driven from
Brussels,” Reid said.  France ’s market regulator, the AMF, today rejected any
special treatment for the U.K. on the application of EU
financial rules.  “In market regulations, it is clear we can’t have two sets
of rules for one market,” Thierry Francq, the AMF’s secretary
general told reporters in Paris. “It makes no sense.”  The EU Parliament “has always been strongly in favor of as
much power as possible being vested in centralized EU
institutions, and this issue was always going to face a rough
ride there,”  Simon Gleeson , a financial-services lawyer at
Clifford Chance LLP in London, said in an e-mail.  It’s doubtful that national governments “will be prepared
to move on this point,” Gleeson said, “since they will be
concerned about taxpayer liabilities,” should a clearinghouse
fail.  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1) ’s  Eurex Clearing  operate as central counterparties for
every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 