-- U.K. Cabinet Office Probes Fraud Prosecutor Conduct After Concerns Raised
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2011-12-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-k-fraud-prosecutor-conduct-investigated-by-cabinet-office.html
The U.K. Cabinet Office investigated
allegations of improper conduct at the British agency that
prosecutes white-collar crime and corruption after staff members
raised concerns.  The probe found no evidence of wrongdoing at the  Serious
Fraud Office , a spokeswoman for Attorney General Dominic Grieve’s office said in an e-mail yesterday.  “Allegations of improper conduct within the SFO were made
by members of staff,” according to the spokeswoman, who
declined to be named citing office policy. “These did not
concern casework or prosecuting decisions.”  The investigation focused on corporate-governance issues
related to top SFO officials, including Chief Executive Officer
 Phillippa Williamson , said two people familiar with the probe
who declined to be identified because the subject matter isn’t
public. The review was prompted when Cabinet Secretary Gus O’Donnell was alerted to concerns raised by an internal
whistleblower. The investigation was conducted by Alex Allan,
chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee and former
 Permanent Secretary  at the Cabinet Office.  Sam Jaffa, an SFO spokesman, declined to comment.
Williamson didn’t answer a call to her office or an e-mail
seeking comment, and Jaffa declined to make her available.  The Attorney General, which has oversight of the SFO, is
expected to announce a new director for the agency as soon as
today, another person familiar with the matter said. The
agency’s current director  Richard Alderman  has said he would
step down when his contract ends in April.  Dwindling Resources  Facing dwindling resources from government budget cuts and
high-level staff departures, the SFO has closed at least four
major investigations over the past two years without bringing
any charges.  The future of the agency created a rift earlier this year
between the Attorney General and the  Home Office , when the
latter wanted to abolish the SFO and combine it with a planned
national crime agency. The plan was later scrapped and the SFO
was given a reprieve.  The SFO, which has been criticized for its prosecution
track record and low fines in corruption cases, has said it is
concerned bribery investigations would be impaired if it is
combined with a national crime agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 