-- U.S. Nov. Industrial Production and Capacity Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2011-12-15T14:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-s-nov-industrial-production-and-capacity-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 industrial production  and capacity report from the Federal
Reserve.  INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION AND CAPACITY UTILIZATION  Industrial production decreased 0.2 percent in November after
having advanced 0.7 percent in October. Factory output moved
down 0.4 percent in November; excluding a drop of 3.4 percent in
the output of motor vehicles and parts, manufacturing production
declined 0.2 percent. Mining production edged up 0.1 percent,
while the output of utilities rose 0.2 percent. At 94.8 percent
of its 2007 average, total industrial production for November
was 3.7 percent above its year-earlier level. Capacity
utilization for total industry decreased to 77.8 percent, a rate
2.0 percentage points above its level from a year earlier but
2.6 percentage points below its long-run (1972-2010) average.  Market Groups  The output of  consumer goods  declined 0.5 percent in November.
The production of durable consumer goods fell 1.4 percent, as
the indexes for automotive products and home electronics dropped
2.0 percent or more. The output of appliances, furniture, and
carpeting decreased 0.2 percent, while the output of
miscellaneous goods increased 0.6 percent. The production of
nondurable consumer goods moved down 0.2 percent; an increase of
1.0 percent for consumer energy products was outweighed by a
decrease of 0.7 percent for other nondurable consumer goods. The
decline in non-energy nondurables reflected reduced output for
each of its major categories.  In November, the index for business equipment edged down 0.1
percent; during the previous four months, the index had advanced,
on average, more than 1.0 percent per month. The output of
transit equipment was unchanged in November, as gains in the
output of civilian aircraft and railroad equipment offset
declines in the production of motor vehicles for businesses.
Overall, the index for transit equipment remained more than 25
percent above its year-earlier level. The index for information
processing equipment inched up 0.1 percent in November, and the
production of industrial and other equipment decreased 0.3
percent.  The production of defense and space equipment climbed 1.4
percent in November after a similarly sized gain in October.  The output of construction supplies rose 0.4 percent in November,
its third consecutive monthly increase. The index for business
supplies fell 1.1 percent, with lower production in both its
energy and non-energy components.  The index for materials to be further processed in the
industrial sector was unchanged in November. The output of
durable materials gained 0.4 percent for a second straight month
and was up 5.9 percent from a year earlier. In November, among
the major categories of durable materials, consumer parts moved
down 0.2 percent, equipment parts were unchanged, and other
durable materials advanced 0.7 percent. The production of
nondurable materials decreased 0.5 percent; a gain in paper
materials was outweighed by losses in both textile and chemical
materials. The output of energy materials was unchanged.  Industry Groups  Manufacturing output decreased 0.4 percent in November, and the
factory operating rate dipped to 75.3 percent, a rate 10.9
percentage points above its trough in June 2009 but still 3.7
percentage points below its long-run average.  The output of durable goods slipped 0.1 percent in November but
was 7.1 percent above the level from 12 months ago. Decreases of
more than 1.5 percent in November occurred for wood products;
electrical equipment, appliances, and components; and motor
vehicles and parts. Gains of more than 1.5 percent were recorded
for primary metals and for aerospace and miscellaneous
transportation equipment.  The index for nondurable manufacturing declined 0.4 percent in
November. Among the major components of nondurables, losses of
more than 0.5 percent were reported for textile and product
mills, apparel and leather, printing, and chemicals. Only the
indexes for paper and for petroleum and coal products moved up.
The index for other manufacturing (non-NAICS), which consists of
publishing and logging, dropped 2.2 percent in November; the
index had registered gains in each of the previous four months.  The output of mines edged up 0.1 percent in November, after
having climbed more than 2.0 percent in October. Capacity
utilization in mining was unchanged at 92.9 percent in November,
a rate 5.5 percentage points above its long-run average. The
output of utilities gained 0.2 percent, and the operating rate
for the sector moved up to 78.2 percent, a rate 8.4 percentage
points below its long-run average.  Capacity utilization rates in November at industries by stage of
process were as follows: At the crude stage, utilization
decreased 0.4 percentage point to 90.5 percent, a rate 4.1
percentage points above its long-run average; at the primary and
semifinished stages, utilization was unchanged at 74.2 percent,
a rate 7.1 percentage points below its long-run average; and at
the finished stage, utilization moved down 0.4 percentage point
to 76.7 percent, a rate 0.6 percentage point below its long-run
average.  Revision of Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization
The  Federal Reserve  Board plans to issue its annual revision to
the index of industrial production (IP) and the related measures
of capacity utilization in late March 2012. The revised IP
indexes will incorporate detailed data from the 2010 Annual
Survey of Manufactures, conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau.
Annual data from the U.S. Geological Survey regarding metallic
and nonmetallic minerals (except fuels) for 2010 will also be
incorporated. The update will include revisions to the monthly
indicator (either product data or input data) and to seasonal
factors for each industry. In addition, the estimation methods
for some series may be changed. Any modifications to the methods
for estimating the output of an industry will affect the index
from 1972 to the present.  Capacity and capacity utilization will be revised to incorporate
data through the fourth quarter of 2011 from the Census Bureau’s
Quarterly Survey of Plant Capacity, which covers manufacturing,
along with new data on capacity from the  U.S. Geological Survey ,
the  Department of Energy , and other organizations.  Once the revision is published, it will be available on the
Board’s website at www.federalreserve.gov/releases/G17. Further
information on the revision can be obtained from the Board’s
Industrial Output Section (telephone number 202-452-3197).  SOURCE: Federal Reserve
 http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/g17  