-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Dec. 13 (Text)
-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 2011-12-15T13:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-dec-13-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Weekly Weather Summary: As the week commenced, a strong storm
system produce significant rains (1-5.5 inches) and localized
unseasonable snows from the Appalachians to the northeast.  In
the wake of that storm system, a weak cold front moved southward
and eastward, exiting the east coast by Saturday.  High pressure
then dominated the weather for most of the contiguous 48 states.
By Monday, moisture had moved northward out of the  Gulf of
Mexico  and, when combined with a low-pressure moving across the
southern Rockies, brought beneficial rains (generally less than
2.0 inches) to the southwest and southern Great Plains.  Southeast: Across the southern Appalachians, rainfall (0.5-3.5
inches) associated with a low pressure system early during the
week alleviated some of the drought conditions.  Some abnormal
dryness (D0) and moderate drought (D1) were removed from
northern Georgia and  North Carolina  (only D0 removed from North
Carolina).  Streamflows and reservoir levels across western
North Carolina have recovered from earlier this year.  Further
south, across north  Florida , a band of rain (2.0-5.0 inches)
fell Sunday night, leading to a one category improvement for
Liberty, Gadsden, Leon, and Jefferson Counties.  Small portions
of southern  Georgia  also received some beneficial rains. Eastern
portions of the Mid-Atlantic missed out on the rains, so D0 was
expanded across northeastern North Carolina and southeastern
 Virginia .  Across  Alabama , streamflow values from near I-20 to the border
with  Tennessee  are near normal.  Counties further south, near
Florida, still show significantly low streamflows.  Rains from
the storm system were mainly confined north of the state,
skipping the Gulf Coast.  The area around Talladega, Clay and
Randolf Counties has been especially dry. Accordingly, moderate
drought was shifted north to include most of Talladega, Clay and
Randolf counties. Long-term precipitation (180-day) deficits
show below average precipitation for most of the state, south of
I-20 with some locations reporting deficits of more than 12
inches, so the depiction of severe drought was modified to
include Northern Baldwin and Escambia counties.  Southwest and Southern Great Plains: Some light but beneficial
rains (generally less than 1.0 inch) fell across central  Texas 
with more substantial amount (1.0-2.9 inches) falling across
southern Texas. Accordingly, the depiction of exceptional
drought (D4) was modified to remove much of Duval, Webb, and
Starr counties, retaining extreme drought (D3) designations.
According to the Weather Forecast Office in Brownsville, the
higher relative humidity values during the past week and daily
cloud cover aided the recovery by minimizing evaporation. Across
Maverick and western Dimmit counties, rainfall also prompted a
slight improvement to moderate drought (D2) from extreme drought
conditions.  The area near Victoria, TX missed out on the rains,
and is experiencing its driest year on record.  The year-to-date
total precipitation (according to ACIS) in the Victoria area is
12.10 inches, nearly 3.5 inches drier than the previous driest
year on record (1956).  An active southern storm track brought significant rains and
some snows (0.5-1.8 inches) to  Arizona ,  New Mexico  and  Colorado .
Some improvement was indicated across New Mexico in response to
the more than 1.0 inch of precipitation at Reserve 1W HCN site
in southwest Catron County).  Additionally, rains totaling 1.5
inches in the Silver City region (central Grant County), more
than 1.0 inch across Sierra County, and over 1.0 inch at
Hatchita HCN site (southern tip of Grant County) guided the
depiction.  Some improvements were made across southeast
Arizona, although the improvements there were more measured as
the impacts to water supplies are still quite dramatic.  Across the Upper Colorado River Basin, some minor improvements
were made to the drought depiction as a reflection of the recent
precipitation. The San Juan Mountains in the UCRB and the Sangre
de Cristos and Wet Mountains (east of the Continental Divide)
have received enough beneficial moisture to ease much of the dry
conditions from last year. As of December 11, 90 percent of the
USGS streamgages in the UCRB recorded normal (25-75 percentile)
or above-normal 7-day average streamflows.  West:  A continued dry pattern has prompted the expansion of D0
(abnormal dryness) across northern  California ,  Oregon  and
 Nevada . Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI) values for time
periods longer than 3 months are only beginning to catch on to
this trend as much of the dryness has been over time periods
less than 90-days.  A blend of SPI values constructed Tuesday is
showing dryness across the region depicted.  Rainfall across
northern California and Central Nevada has been at or below 50
percent of normal for atleast 60 days.  Prior snowpack helped to
mitigate the impact on reservoir storage levels (Shasta Lake is
still at 112 percent of average) but most lakes (as monitored
and displayed on the California Department of Water Resources
web site) are below 100% capacity and show declining absolute
storage amounts.  Hawaii : Across Kauai, some rains did fall but had little impact.
Lihue Airport only has 0.61 inches so far in December, a
significant departure from a normal amount of 1.95 inches.
Improvement is indicated across the northern portions of the Big
Island with precipitation (0.5-5.4 inches) helping to ease the
drought. The FSA indicated that ranchers have received some much
needed rainfall from Waimea to Kawaihae to Upolu Pt.  Leeward
areas remained as depicted last week with drought continuing.  Looking Ahead: During the ensuing 5 days (December 15-19), a
cold front is expected to move across the eastern third of the
country and a weak low-pressure center is forecast to form along
the front.  Rains are expected to spread from the western Gulf
Coastal states to the Mid-Atlantic. An area of high pressure is
expected to settle over the lower Mississippi river valley
during the weekend.  High pressure across the west is likely to
keep wind speeds elevated across the Great Basin and southwest,
potentially increasing evaporation across Nevada and California.
Another cold front is forecast to move across the northeast with
a low-pressure center developing across the western  gulf coast 
early next week.  The Climate Prediction Center (CPC) 6-10 day precipitation
forecasts indicate enhanced probabilities for above-average
precipitation across the southeast and  Alaska .  The anticipated
pattern would likely support drier than average conditions from
Oregon to New Mexico to the middle Mississippi River Valley
during the period from December 20-24.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  