-- U.S. Denies Florida’s Request to Relax Profit Rules on Health Insurers
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2011-12-15T19:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-s-denies-florida-s-request-to-relax-profit-rules-on-health-insurers.html
Florida  health insurers won’t get a
waiver from new rules that limit their administrative costs and
profits, said Steve Larsen, director of the U.S. Center for
Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight.  The 2010 health-care overhaul requires insurers to spend at
least 80 percent of premiums on medical care, called a “medical
loss ratio” or MLR. Seventeen states have asked for adjustments
to the standard so that insurers can spend less on care. Some
health plans have threatened to stop doing business in states
that don’t win reprieves from the rule.  No Florida insurer has said it plans to leave and consumers
are unlikely to lose coverage without a waiver, Larsen said in a
conference call with reporters. His decision will ensure that
Floridians “continue to get value for their premium dollars,”
he said.  The nonprofit Blue Cross Blue Shield of Florida was the
state’s largest health insurer in 2010 with 20 percent of the
market, according to data from the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners, followed by Louisville, Kentucky-based
 Humana Inc. (HUM)  and Minnetonka, Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth Group
Inc. (UNH) , the largest U.S. health insurer by revenue, with about 18
percent each.  Florida Insurance Commissioner Kevin McCarty conducted two
public hearings in 2010 on what the requirement would mean for
insurers and consumers. He believes “that an immediate
imposition of the MLR ratio will destabilize the individual
market in Florida,” his spokesman, Jack McDermott, said in an
e-mail.  Biggest State  Florida is the largest state so far to receive a decision.
Citigroup analyst Carl McDonald said in a note to clients in
March that Florida’s request “isn’t very strong” and it was
likely to be rejected.  The Florida decision carries political baggage. Governor
 Rick Scott , a Republican and former executive at  HCA Holdings
Inc ., led a group called Conservatives for Patients’ Rights that
fought the health-care overhaul in 2009. He used the experience
to win election as Florida’s governor in 2010.  Ten other states have received decisions on their requests.
 North Dakota , Louisiana, Delaware and Indiana were denied any
adjustment. Maine, the first state to apply, was granted the
lower spending target it requested -- 65 percent of premium
revenue in 2011 and 2012. Five others were given less generous
reprieves than they requested.  Requests from  Texas ,  Michigan , Kansas, Oklahoma,  North
Carolina  and Wisconsin remain under consideration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  