-- U.S. November Producer Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2011-12-15T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-s-november-producer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
U.S. producer price report for Nov. released by the Labor
Department.  The Producer Price Index for finished goods advanced
0.3 percent in November, seasonally adjusted, the  U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today. Finished goods
prices fell 0.3 percent in October and moved up 0.8 percent
in September. At the earlier stages of processing, the index
for intermediate goods rose 0.2 percent and crude goods
prices increased 3.8 percent. On an unadjusted basis, the
finished goods index advanced 5.7 percent for the 12 months
ended November 2011, the smallest year-over-year rise since
a 5.6-percent increase in March 2011.  Stage-of-Processing Analysis  Finished goods  In November, the increase in the finished goods index
was broad based with prices for finished consumer foods
moving up 1.0 percent. The indexes for both finished goods
less foods and energy and for finished energy goods inched
up 0.1 percent.  Finished foods:  The index for finished consumer foods jumped 1.0
percent in November, the sixth consecutive monthly increase.
Over half of the November advance can be attributed to the
index for fresh and dry vegetables, which rose 11.5 percent.
Higher prices for processed young chickens and meats also
were factors in the increase in the finished consumer foods
index.  Finished core:  The index for finished goods less foods and energy
advanced 0.1 percent in November after no change a month
earlier. Leading this rise, the index for pharmaceutical
preparations jumped 0.9 percent. Price increases for
passenger cars also contributed to the advance in the
finished core index.  Finished energy:  The index for finished energy goods edged up 0.1
percent in November after declining 1.4 percent in the prior
month. Leading this increase was a 9.4-percent advance in
home heating oil prices.  Intermediate goods  The Producer Price Index for intermediate materials,
supplies, and components moved up 0.2 percent in November
after declining 1.1 percent in October. Leading this
increase, prices for intermediate energy goods rose 1.9
percent. The index for intermediate foods and feeds also
contributed to the advance, moving up 0.6 percent. By
contrast, prices for intermediate materials less foods and
energy decreased 0.4 percent. For the 12 months ending in
November, the intermediate goods index increased 7.7
percent, the smallest year-over-year rise since a 6.2-
percent increase in January 2011.  Intermediate energy:  Prices for intermediate energy goods advanced 1.9
percent in November following a 2.6-percent decline in
October. Over forty percent of this rise can be attributed
to a 7.5-percent increase in the diesel fuel index. Higher
prices for industrial electric power and jet fuels also were
factors in the November advance in the intermediate energy
goods index.  Intermediate foods:  The index for intermediate foods and feeds increased
0.6 percent in November after falling 1.5 percent a month
earlier. The index for processed young chickens accounted
for over three-quarters of the advance, moving up 8.0
percent. Higher prices for natural cheese, except cottage
cheese, also contributed to the November rise in the index
for intermediate foods and feeds.  Intermediate core:  Prices for intermediate goods less foods and energy
fell 0.4 percent in November, the second consecutive monthly
decline. The November decrease was mostly due to a 4.1-
percent drop in the index for basic organic chemicals.  Crude goods  The Producer Price Index for crude materials for
further processing moved up 3.8 percent in November. For the
3 months ending in November, prices for crude materials
advanced 4.0 percent following a 1.5-percent decline from
May to August. In November, the monthly increase in the
crude goods index is mostly attributable to prices for crude
energy materials, which jumped 10.5 percent. Also
contributing to the November climb was the index for crude
foodstuffs and feedstuffs, which advanced 0.5 percent. By
contrast, prices for crude nonfood materials less energy
decreased 2.5 percent.  Crude energy:  The index for crude energy materials rose 10.5 percent
in November. From August to November, prices for crude
energy materials jumped 16.4 percent subsequent to an 11.0-
percent decline for the 3 months ending in August. The
monthly increase in November was led by a 22.7-percent jump
in the crude petroleum index. Higher prices for coal also
were a factor in the rise in the crude energy index.  Crude foods:  Prices for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs climbed 0.5
percent in November. For the 3 months ending in November,
the crude foods index moved down 2.1 percent after rising
5.9 percent from May to August. The November monthly
increase was led by a 3.2-percent advance in prices for
slaughter cattle. A rise in the slaughter poultry index also
contributed to the climb in crude foods prices.  Crude core:  The index for crude nonfood materials less energy fell
2.5 percent in November. From August to November, crude core
prices declined 5.8 percent following a 3.3-percent rise in
the prior 3-month period. In November, a 6.6-percent drop in
prices for iron and steel scrap accounted for almost three-
quarters of the monthly decrease in the crude core index.  Services Analysis  Trade industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output of total
trade industries was unchanged in November following a 1.0-
percent drop in October. (Trade indexes measure changes in
margins received by wholesalers and retailers.) In November,
higher margins received by family clothing stores and
discount department stores offset lower margins received by
wholesale trade industries and non-discount department
stores.  Transportation and warehousing industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output of
transportation and warehousing industries moved down 0.2
percent in November after rising 0.4 percent in October.
Most of this decline can be traced to prices received by the
scheduled passenger air transportation industry, which fell
1.8 percent. Lower prices for deep sea freight
transportation and local general freight trucking also
contributed to the decrease in the transportation and
warehousing industries index.  Traditional  service industries :  The Producer Price Index for the net output of total
traditional service industries edged up 0.1 percent in
November following a 0.1-percent decline in October. Leading
this advance, prices received by general medical and
surgical hospitals increased 0.6 percent. Higher prices
received by the portfolio management industry and by direct
health and medical insurance carriers also were factors in
the rise in the index for total traditional service
industries.  The Producer Price Index for December 2011 is scheduled to
be released on Wednesday, January 18, 2012 at 8:30 a.m.
(EST).  Recalculated Seasonal Adjustment Factors and Relative
Importance Figures to be Available on February 14, 2012  Each year with the release of PPI data for January,
seasonal adjustment factors are recalculated to reflect
price movements from the just-completed calendar year. The
following information will be available on February 14, 2012
(2 workdays prior to the release of PPI data for January
2012 on February 16):
* Direct seasonal factors for commodity indexes for the year
2012,
* Recalculated seasonal factors for the last 5 years (2007-
2011) for the commodity indexes,
* Recalculated seasonal factors for the last 5 years (2007-
2011) for the stage-of-processing indexes.  This routine annual calculation may result in revisions
to seasonally adjusted indexes for the previous 5 years,
which will be available on the BLS website. In addition,
December 2011 relative importance figures also will be
available on February 14, 2012.  To obtain this information, visit the PPI website at
www.bls.gov/ppi or call the Division of Industrial Prices
and Price Indexes, Section of Index Analysis and Public
Information at (202) 691-7705.  PPI Weights to be Updated  The Bureau of Labor Statistics will soon update the
value weights used to calculate Producer Price Indexes to
more accurately reflect recent production and marketing
patterns. The new weights, which will be introduced in
February 2012 with the release of January 2012 index data,
will be based on shipment values from the year 2007. These
value weights come from the Census of Manufactures, the
Census of Mining, the Census of Services, and the Census of
Agriculture. PPI weights have been based on 2002 census
shipment values since January 2007.  All PPIs will be affected by this weight update,
including all the industry net output indexes, as well as
indexes for traditional commodity groupings. In addition,
weights will be updated from the 2002 to the 2007 census for
all stage-of-processing indexes, durability of product
indexes, and special commodity-grouping indexes. This weight
revision will not change any arithmetic reference bases for
indexes, the dates when PPIs were set to 100.  The basic structures of the PPI commodity and stage-of-
processing classification systems will not change as a
result of the weight revision. The PPIs classified according
to the North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS), however, will be updated in February 2012 with the
release of January 2012 index data to reflect 2012 NAICS
definitions established by the U.S. Census Bureau. The
weight update will also result in significant shifts in the
relative importance of various industries and products.
These shifts will impact aggregate indexes in a manner
commensurate with the relative gains and losses in value
weights from 2002 to 2007.  Commodity and stage-of-processing relative importance
figures for December 2011 will be available on February 14,
2012, two business days prior to the release of January 2012
PPI data. This information will be available on the PPI
website at www.bls.gov/ppi or by calling the Division of
Industrial Prices and Price Indexes, Section of Index
Analysis and Public Information at (202) 691-7705.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington   cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  