-- U.S. Lawmakers Offer Bipartisan Proposal for Medicare With Private Option
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2011-12-15T15:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-s-lawmakers-ryan-wyden-join-on-bipartisan-proposal-to-revamp-medicare.html
A bipartisan  proposal  to give the
elderly a choice between the government’s Medicare program and
private insurance plans is intended as a “framework” to
overhaul the entitlement, Representative  Paul Ryan  said today.  Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican who heads the House Budget
Committee, proposed replacing Medicare with a private insurance
system in the spring. He has now teamed with Senator  Ron Wyden ,
a Democrat from  Oregon , on a new plan to amend the U.S. health
program for the elderly and disabled.  The proposal, presented today by the lawmakers, may alter
the debate in next year’s congressional campaign as both parties
hope to sway voters with their arguments on Medicare’s future.
The plan gives people turning 65 starting in 2022 the ability to
choose between the existing system, where the government pays
hospital and doctors’ bills for seniors, and an alternative
system of regulated private insurance plans.  “What we’re trying to do here is plant the seeds for
future bipartisan compromises,” Ryan said at an appearance with
Wyden this morning in Washington.  Medicare covers an estimated  49 million Americans  and
accounts for 15 percent of total federal  government spending ,
according to the  Kaiser Family Foundation , a nonprofit research
group based in  Menlo Park ,  California .  The U.S. is expected to spend $556 billion on Medicare this
year, according to projections from the  Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services . Spending grew at a rate of about 8 percent
per year from 2005 to 2009.  Campaign Attacks  Democrats criticized Ryan’s original plan to privatize the
health program, included in a fiscal 2012 budget resolution and
passed in the House with only Republican votes, as an effort to
unwind the entitlement created in 1965.  Those attacks paid dividends for Democrats when they won a
special election May 24 in a traditionally Republican
congressional district in western  New York . Democrat Kathy Hochul accused her Republican opponent, who endorsed Ryan’s
plan, of shortchanging elderly Medicare recipients to protect
tax breaks for “millionaires and billionaires.”  Republicans “have got to deal with the fact that they are
viewed as destroying Medicare,” said Representative Jim McDermott, a Democrat from Washington who is a psychiatrist by
training, in an interview yesterday. The Ryan-Wyden proposal ‘is
really a PR bill to deflect criticism,” he said.  Wyden, in an interview yesterday, said he wants to show
that liberals and conservatives can agree on a plan to “come
together and strengthen” Medicare.  ‘Social Safety Net’  “I consider the Medicare program the single most important
fiber in the social safety net,” he said. “I will never do
anything to hurt it in any way.”  Representative  Patrick McHenry , a North Carolina
Republican, said the earlier Ryan proposal had caused political
problems for his party. “This is better, when you are providing
people a choice,” he said in an interview.  Under the Wyden-Ryan proposal, the government would pay a
stipend toward the cost of the private insurance alternative,
equal either to traditional Medicare or the second-least
expensive private plan, determined through an annual bidding
competition. People who wanted more expensive coverage would
have to pay the difference out of pocket.  The Wyden-Ryan plan would cap the growth of spending in
Medicare at the rate of the gross domestic product plus 1
percent. If costs exceeded that growth target, Medicare
beneficiaries wouldn’t have to pay more out-of-pocket for
coverage, Wyden said. Ryan’s original plan capped the amount the
government would contribute to the cost of insurance.  Saving Seniors Money  “We rule that out,” Wyden said. “If costs go up,
Congress has to do its job, figure out why costs are going up,
and Congress can cut payments to providers, to drug companies,
to those who are responsible.”  Wyden and Ryan haven’t yet asked the  Congressional Budget
Office  to examine their proposal, Wyden said, so it is unknown
how much it might save compared with current Medicare spending
projections.  Wyden has reached out before to Republicans on health
issues. In 2009, he and Senator  Robert Bennett , a Utah
Republican, offered an alternative to the health-care overhaul
eventually signed by President  Barack Obama  in March 2010. The
health overhaul bill passed with only Democratic support.  Bennett faced criticism from his party over the effort and
wasn’t nominated for re-election in 2010. His seat was won by
Republican  Mike Lee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ; 