-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Hold at Almost 2-Week High on Europe
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2011-12-15T22:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-s-company-credit-default-swaps-fall-on-demand-at-spanish-debt-auction.html
A benchmark gauge of credit risk
held at about a two-week high on concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis may spread, even after  Spain  sold almost twice the
maximum target at a government bond auction and data signaled
the  U.S. economy  is strengthening.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 0.2 basis point to a mid-price of 129.8 basis points
at 5:14 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd.  The measure, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, has climbed from 121.9 on
Dec. 9 on speculation that European leaders may fail to prevent
the region’s fiscal strains from infecting bank balance sheets
worldwide. That concern outweighed a report showing the fewest
workers in three years filed claims for U.S. jobless benefits
last week.  “The macro headwinds are getting stronger,” said Stanley Crouch, who helps oversee more than $2 billion as chief
investment officer at New York-based Aegis Capital Corp.
Crouch said. “The overall trend given the macro picture has to
be bearish and given the overall situation in Europe,” he said.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said today Europe’s debt crisis is escalating beyond the
point where one group of nations can solve it.  The credit swaps measure has risen from 79 basis points on
Feb. 8 to as high as 154 on Oct. 10.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Spain Auction  Spain sold bonds due in 2016 at an average yield of 4.023
percent, compared with 5.276 percent when securities of a
similar maturity were offered on Dec. 1, the Treasury said.  “Any borrower in Europe is going to borrow if they see
demand,” Couch said. “They’re going to borrow as much as they
can while the window’s open, because who knows? It can change in
the wind.”  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, snapped four days of increases,
narrowing 0.91 basis point to 46.9 basis points. The gauge,
which contracts when investors buy riskier assets and widens
when they seek the perceived safety of  government bonds , has
increased from this year’s low of 13.06 on April 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  