-- Obama Concerned That Iran is on Verge of Underground Nuclear Enrichment
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2011-12-15T23:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-s-worried-iran-on-verge-of-nuclear-enrichment.html
The Obama administration is
concerned  Iran  is on the verge of enriching uranium at a
facility deep underground near the Muslim holy city of Qom, a
move that may strengthen those advocating tougher action to stop
Iran’s suspected atomic weapons program.  Iranian nuclear scientists at the Fordo facility appear to
be within weeks of producing 20 percent enriched uranium,
according to Iran analysts and nuclear specialists in close
communication with U.S. officials and atomic inspectors.
Enriched uranium is used to fuel power plants and reactors, and
may be further processed into atomic weapons material.  Administration officials, speaking on condition of
anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue, worry Iran’s
actions may bolster calls for a military response and ratchet up
pressure to limit Iran’s oil exports, which might send oil
prices soaring.  “Senior advisers to President Obama privately express
concern that  Israel  might see Iran’s commencement of the Fordo
facility” as a justification for a military strike, said Karim Sadjadpour, an Iran analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in Washington who has frequent discussions
with U.S. officials.  Avoiding Miscalculation  Sadjadpour said some White House officials question whether
Iran is trying to provoke an Israeli strike in order to rally
support at home and abroad. The Obama administration, he said,
wants to prevent miscalculations that might trigger a military
conflict. The U.S. and Israel say military action remains an
option if diplomacy and other measures fail to stop Iran from
acquiring a nuclear bomb.  Two State Department officials who direct U.S. policy on
Iran’s nuclear activities are heading to Israel this week.
Undersecretary of State Wendy Sherman and Robert Einhorn, a
State Department special adviser for nonproliferation, will be
in Israel Dec. 17 and 18 to discuss regional matters including
“common security challenges,” according to a State Department
announcement today.  Their trip follows Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak ’s
meetings yesterday with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and
National Security Adviser Tom Donilon in Washington. It
“reinforces the strong and enduring security cooperation
between our two governments,” the State Department said.  Pressuring Iran  The visits come amid growing pressure to tighten financial
and energy sanctions on Iran. Congress this week approved
measures against the Central Bank of Iran that the
administration previously resisted on the grounds that targeting
an important oil supplier for  Asia  and  Europe  threatens to
fracture the coalition against Iran and raise oil prices.  “There’s absolutely a risk” that the price of oil would
go up, “which would mean that Iran would, in fact, have more
money to fuel its nuclear ambitions,” Sherman testified on Dec.
1.  Crude for January delivery fell $1.08 to $93.87 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  today, the lowest settlement
since Nov. 2. Prices have risen 2.7 percent this year after
climbing 15 percent in 2010. Futures have tumbled 6.3 percent in
the past two days.  Oil Prices   Concerns about confrontations with Iran sent oil up 2.4
percent on Dec. 13, the biggest gain in almost four weeks, on
speculation shipments from the  Persian Gulf  would be disrupted
after a report that Iran will hold drills to practice closing
the  Strait of Hormuz .  Gholamreza Jalali, head of Iran’s civil defense
organization, said yesterday that Iran will move its uranium
enrichment centers to locations that are safer from attack if
necessary, according to the state-run Mehr news agency.  U.S. officials say Iran is close to starting up Fordo’s two
cascades of 174 centrifuges each, fast-spinning machines that
enrich uranium for use as a nuclear fuel. Uranium enriched at
higher concentrations of 90 percent can be used for a bomb.  Dennis Ross , who until last month was special assistant to
President  Barack Obama  for the region including Iran, said
Israel has reason to be concerned about enrichment at Qom.  ‘Israeli Calculus’  Iran’s accumulation of low-enriched uranium, its decision
to enrich to nearly 20 percent “when there is no justification
for it,” its hardening of sites, and other “activities related
to possible weaponization” are factors that “affect the
Israeli calculus and ours,” Ross, now a counselor at the
 Washington  Institute for Near East Policy, said in an e-mail.
“Qom is important, but it is worth remembering that IAEA
inspectors go there, and I would not isolate Qom and say this
alone is the Israeli red-line” to spur a military response.  Last month, the UN’s International Atomic Energy Agency
reported Iran moved a large cylinder of 5 percent enriched
uranium from the Natanz fuel enrichment plant to the Fordo
facility near Qom. Iranian nuclear engineers have installed
centrifuges that need only to be connected to cooling and
electric lines to become operational, the IAEA said.  The Nov. 8 report went further than any previous public
document in listing nuclear activities that inspectors said had
no purpose other than for weapons capability. Iran insists its
program is for peaceful energy and medical research.  Nuclear physicist  David Albright , founder of the
independent Institute for Science and International Security in
Washington and a former weapons inspector, said in an interview
yesterday that what concerns Israel most is Iran’s plan to
triple the rate of enrichment by installing new generation
centrifuges at Fordo that are being tested at the Natanz site.  ‘Slower Than Expected’  “The program has gone slower than expected -- they’re
having trouble building and operating the centrifuges, which
could be the result of Stuxnet or other sabotage,” Albright
said, referring to a computer worm that is believed to have
damaged Iran’s centrifuges last year.  At the current rate, Albright said, it would likely take
Iran till the end of 2013 to enrich enough 20 percent uranium to
be further processed for use in one bomb. If Iran were to get
three sets of new generation centrifuges working at Fordo and
Natanz, they could produce enough material by the end of next
year that could be further enriched to weapons-grade, he said.  “Where Israel would get more nervous is if Iran started to
install hundreds of advanced centrifuges underground,” which
would mean a “breakout capability over about six months,”
Albright said, referring to the ability to enrich uranium to
weapons-grade. And at Fordo, “there’s no way to blow it up
because it’s 90 meters under rock.”  Mountain Facility  Iran only admitted the existence of the Fordo plant, built
deep into a mountain south of the capital Tehran, in September
2009 after U.S., British and French intelligence agencies
gathered information on the clandestine facility.  In Congress, growing concern has played out in a measure to
sanction transactions with the Iranian  central bank  in an effort
to choke off its overseas oil sales.  Iran is the world’s third-largest crude exporter and oil is
Iran’s major source of income, supplying more than 50 percent of
the national budget, according to International Monetary Fund
figures. The second-largest oil producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , Iran exported
an average 2.58 million barrels a day in 2010, according to OPEC
statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  