-- U.S. Third Quarter International Transactions Report (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2011-12-15T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-s-third-quarter-international-transactions-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the U.S.
international transactions report from the Commerce Department.  U.S. International Transactions: Third Quarter 2011  Current Account  The U.S. current-account deficit-- the combined balances
on trade in goods and services, income, and net unilateral
current transfers -- decreased to $110.3 billion (preliminary) in
the third quarter of 2011, from $124.7 billion (revised) in the
second quarter.  More than half of the decrease reflected a
decrease in the deficit on goods.  A decrease in net unilateral
current transfers and increases in the surpluses on services and
on income also contributed.  Goods and services  The deficit on goods and services decreased to $135.6
billion in the third quarter from $146.2 billion in the second.  Goods  The deficit on goods decreased to $181.8 billion in the
third quarter from $190.6 billion in the second.  Goods exports increased to $382.7 billion from $373.0
billion.  Most major end-use categories increased.  Most of the
increase was accounted for by increases in industrial supplies
and materials and in capital goods.  The increase in industrial
supplies and materials largely reflected increases in nonmonetary
gold and in petroleum and products.  The increase in capital
goods was mostly due to an increase in civilian aircraft.  Goods imports increased slightly to $564.5 billion from
$563.6 billion despite decreases in most major end-use
categories.  The increase in total imports reflected an increase
in automotive vehicles, parts, and engines that was mostly offset
by decreases in industrial supplies and materials and in  consumer
goods .  Most of the growth in automotive vehicles, parts, and
engines was accounted for by passenger cars, new and used.
Industrial supplies and materials decreased as a result of a
decrease in petroleum and products.  The decrease in consumer
goods was primarily due to a reduction in "other" household
goods.  Services  The surplus on services increased to $46.2 billion in the
third quarter from $44.4 billion in the second.  Services receipts increased to $153.8 billion from $150.8
billion.  All of the major services categories increased; the
increases were largest in passenger fares, in travel, in other
private services, and in royalties and license fees.  Services payments increased to $107.6 billion from $106.4
billion.  The largest increases were in other private services
and in royalties and license fees.  Most of the other major
services categories also increased.  Income  The surplus on income increased to $58.3 billion in the
third quarter from $56.9 billion in the second.  Investment income  Income receipts on U.S.-owned assets abroad decreased to
$187.0 billion from $189.9 billion. The decrease was more than
accounted for by a decrease in direct investment receipts; an
increase in other private receipts (which consists of interest
and dividends) was partly offsetting.  Income payments on foreign-owned assets in the  United
States  decreased to $126.5 billion from $130.7 billion.  The
decrease was more than accounted for by a decrease in direct
investment payments; an increase in other private payments (which
consists of interest and dividends) was partly offsetting.  Compensation of employees  Receipts for compensation of U.S. workers abroad remained
at $1.4 billion.  Payments for compensation of foreign workers in
the United States remained at $3.6 billion.  Unilateral current transfers  Net unilateral current transfers to foreigners were $33.0
billion in the third quarter, down from $35.4 billion in the
second.  The decrease mostly reflected a decrease in U.S.
government grants.  Capital Account  Net capital account flows were zero in the third quarter,
compared with net payments of $0.8 billion in the second quarter.  Financial Account  Net financial inflows were $183.9 billion in the third
quarter, up from $35.4 billion in the second.  Both foreign-owned
assets in the United States and U.S.-owned assets abroad
increased; foreign-owned assets in the United States increased
substantially more than U.S.-owned assets abroad. The third-
quarter growth in U.S.-owned assets abroad was a reversal from a
decrease in the second quarter.  U.S.-owned assets abroad  U.S.-owned assets abroad increased $70.8 billion in the
third quarter, following a decrease of $25.1 billion in the
second.  U.S. claims on foreigners reported by U.S. banks and
securities brokers decreased $13.9 billion in the third quarter,
after a decrease of $194.7 billion in the second.  (Examples of
these claims are U.S. banks' deposits at foreign banks and U.S.
banks' loans to foreigners.)  The third-quarter decrease
reflected a significant decrease in claims for
customersüEaccounts that was partly offset by a substantial
increase in claims for own accounts.  U.S. net purchases of foreign securities were $27.6
billion in the third quarter, following net purchases of $30.4
billion in the second.  Net purchases of foreign stocks slowed to
$22.8 billion from $26.9 billion.  Net purchases of foreign bonds
were $4.8 billion, up from $3.5 billion.  U.S. direct investment abroad was $70.8 billion in the
third quarter, down from $138.5 billion in the second.  Most of
the decrease was due to a decrease in equity investment and a
shift to inflows of intercompany debt investment.  A decrease in
reinvested earnings also contribute.  U.S. claims on unaffiliated foreigners reported by U.S.
nonbanking concerns decreased $18.9 billion in the third quarter,
after a decrease of $7.1 billion in the second.  U.S. official reserve assets increased $4.1 billion in the
third quarter, following an increase of $6.3 billion in the
second.  The increase reflected an increase in the U.S. reserve
position in the  International Monetary Fund  (IMF) due to an
increase in the U.S. loan to the IMF under New Arrangements to
Borrow.  U.S. government assets other than official reserve assets
increased $1.3 billion in the third quarter, after an increase of
$1.4 billion in the second.  Foreign-owned assets in the United States  Foreign-owned assets in the United States increased $254.7
billion in the third quarter, following an increase of $2.8
billion in the second.  U.S. liabilities to foreigners reported by U.S. banks and
securities brokers (other than foreign official assets) increased
$63.7 billion in the third quarter, after a decrease of $112.6
billion in the second.  (Examples of these liabilities are
deposits of foreign residents at banks in the United States and
loans by banks abroad to banks in the United States.)  The
increase resulted from an increase in liabilities for own
accounts; a large increase in deposits abroad was partly offset
by decreases in  repurchase agreements  and other liabilities.  Foreign private net purchases of U.S. Treasury securities
were $123.8 billion in the third quarter, a shift from net sales
of $59.3 billion in the second.  Foreign private net sales of U.S. securities other than
U.S. Treasury securities were $23.0 billion in the third quarter,
up from net sales of $10.7 billion in the second.  The third-
quarter increase was due to a shift to net sales of U.S. stocks
of $27.1 billion from net purchases of $27.6 billion.  Partly
offsetting were a shift to net purchases of U.S. federally
sponsored agency bonds from net sales and a decrease in net sales
of corporate bonds.  Net purchases of U.S. federally sponsored
agency bonds were $13.0 billion in the third quarter, a shift
from net sales of $23.4 billion in the second.  Net sales of U.S.
corporate bonds were $8.9 billion, down from $15.0 billion.  Foreign direct investment in the United States was $75.3
billion in the third quarter, following investment of $52.1
billion in the second.  The increase was accounted for by a shift
to inflows of intercompany debt investment, and a slight increase
in equity investment.  Reinvested earnings edged slightly lower.  U.S. liabilities to unaffiliated foreigners reported by
U.S. nonbanking concerns decreased $19.0 billion in the third
quarter, following an increase of $24.2 billion in the second.  Foreign official assets in the United States increased
$24.4 billion in the third quarter, after an increase of $95.1
billion in the second.  The increase was due to net purchases of
U.S. Treasury securities, particularly by European countries.  Net shipments of U.S. currency to foreign countries were
$9.6 billion in the third quarter, down from $14.0 billion in the
second.  The statistical discrepancy-- net errors and omissions in
recorded transactions -- was -$73.6 billion in the third quarter
compared with $90.2 billion in the second.  In the third quarter, the  U.S. dollar  appreciated 0.3
percent on a trade-weighted quarterly average basis against a
group of 7 major currencies.  (Data are based on Federal Reserve
Statistical Release H.10.)  Revisions  The second-quarter 2011 international transactions are
revised from previously published statistics. The current-account
deficit was revised up to $124.7 billion from $118.0 billion.
The goods deficit was revised up to $190.6 billion from $190.4
billion; the services surplus was revised down to $44.4 billion
from $45.4 billion; the income surplus was revised down to $56.9
billion from $61.1 billion; and net outflows of unilateral
current transfers were revised up to $35.4 billion from $34.2
billion.  Net financial inflows were revised up to $35.4 billion
from $25.7 billion.  SOURCE: U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis    http://www.bea.gov   To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  