-- U.S. Senate to Vote on House-Passed $662 Billion Defense Plan
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2011-12-15T05:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-s-senate-to-vote-on-house-passed-662-billion-defense-plan.html
The  U.S. Senate  may vote as early as
today to approve a $662 billion defense authorization measure
and send it to President  Barack Obama  to be signed into law.  The  House of Representatives  yesterday passed the
legislation,  which seeks to control rising costs of the
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 jet, the Pentagon’s most expensive
weapons program. The vote was 283-136 on the bill, which sets
military policy and spending targets for the fiscal year that
started Oct. 1.  Endorsed by negotiators from the House and Senate on Dec.
12, the measure also mandates that members of al-Qaeda be placed
in military detention and includes a provision passed by the
Senate to impose sanctions on  Iran ’s central bank.  “We have demanded more accountability from nations like
Iran; we have aided our forces fighting in  Iraq  and Afghanistan;
and we look to emerging issues, like proliferation and cyber
threats,” said Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, the
California Republican who heads the House Armed Services
Committee. “We have assured that the Department of Defense will
be a more efficient steward of the taxpayer dollar”  The negotiators agreed to a provision that directs the
Pentagon, in a forthcoming sixth F-35 production contract, to
place greater risk on Lockheed Martin to absorb overruns.  If costs exceed a negotiated target, the company would
absorb the entire amount instead of splitting the increase with
the U.S. government. The U.S. is negotiating the fifth contract
for the F-35. At $382 billion, the F-35 is the Pentagon’s
largest weapons program.  F-35 Cut  Congressional negotiators also agreed to cut funding for
one F-35 jet for the Air Force, dropping its purchase to 18 for
2012. The negotiators approved funding for seven carrier-based
F-35s requested by the Navy and six short take-off-and-vertical
landing versions for the Marine Corps.  The 2012 defense authorization bill sets military policy
and spending targets at about $26.6 billion less than the
Pentagon’s request for the new fiscal year.  The bill includes $115.5 billion for the wars in
 Afghanistan  and Iraq and about $16.9 billion for Department of
Energy defense programs. It also would hold defense contractors
responsible for counterfeit parts in weapons systems.  House and Senate negotiators agreed to $390 million for the
multinational missile-defense program known as the Medium
Extended Air Defense System. Three-fourths of that funding would
be restricted until the defense secretary submits a detailed
plan “either for implementing a smaller restructured program,
or for paying contract termination costs.”  Development Program  The $4.2 billion development program is managed from
 Orlando ,  Florida , by Meads International LLC, a joint venture of
Lockheed, Lfk-Lenkflugkorpersysteme Gmbh of  Germany  and MBDA of
 Italy . MBDA is owned by  BAE Systems Plc , European Aeronautic,
Defence and Space Co. and  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)   The negotiators reported they were “extremely
disappointed” that the Pentagon’s agreement in 2004 with
Germany and Italy on the air defense system created an
“unacceptable situation for the  United States  in the event of
poor program execution, significant schedule delays or
significantly increased cost estimates, such as have taken
place.”  The Pentagon in February said it would terminate the
program when the current contract ends in 2013. In July, Italy
joined Germany in pressing the U.S. to maintain funding.  Tactical Vehicle Program  The bill also supports the Army and Marine Corps Joint
Light Tactical Vehicle program. The conference agreement
authorizes $152.2 million for continued development.  Three companies in 2008 won technology development
contracts for the program: General Tactical Vehicles, a joint
venture of  General Dynamics (GD)  Land Systems, part of Falls Church,
Virginia-based General Dynamics Corp., and South Bend, Indiana-
based AM General LLC; BAE Systems Land & Armaments, part of
London-based  BAE Systems ; and Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed
Martin.  The final defense bill cuts $297.7 million of $775.8
million in the Army’s budget request for the Joint Tactical
Radio System, or JTRS. The system of wirelessly linked computers
is designed to deliver voice, video and data for platforms,
including tanks and aircraft.  Boeing Co. (BA) , General Dynamics Corp.
and Lockheed Martin have a stake in the program.  The House and Senate negotiators agreed on $14.9 billion
for 10 new ships and shipbuilding support, including the Navy’s
Littoral Combat Ship program, the DDG-51 Arleigh Burke
destroyer, the DDG-1000 guided missile destroyer and the LPD-17
amphibious transport dock ship.  Annual Report  The legislation requires the U.S. comptroller general to
submit an annual report on Boeing’s KC-46A tanker program,
beginning in fiscal year 2012 and concluding in fiscal 2017. The
reports would include assessments as to whether the  Air Force 
was making changes to the program’s requirements or
documentation.  The bill requires the secretary of the Army to certify that
the acquisition strategy for the production of radio systems
provides for “full and open competition that includes
commercially developed systems that are certified by the
National Security Agency and pass Army testing,” according to a
summary of the conference report provided by the Senate Armed
Services Committee.  The measure includes a requirement that members of al-Qaeda
be held in military detention.  At the request of the Obama administration, the compromise
bill adopts language to make it “100 percent clear” that the
revised bill wouldn’t interfere with the detention authority of
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  or other law enforcement
agencies, Levin told reporters.  The president would have the power to determine what
suspects have an al-Qaeda connection and therefore would go into
military detention, according to a committee news release.  The bill is H.R. 1540.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 