-- U.S. December Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2011-12-15T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-s-december-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that
manufacturing activity improved in New York State in December.
The general business conditions index rose nine points to 9.5,
its highest level since May. The new orders index climbed above
zero, to 5.1, and the shipments index advanced eleven points to
20.9. Input price increases steepened, with the prices paid
index rising six points to 24.4. Selling prices increased only
modestly, with the prices received index inching down to 3.5.
Employment indexes were mixed, showing a slight increase in
employment levels but a slight decrease in the length of the
average workweek. Future indexes rose sharply for a second
consecutive month, with the future general business conditions
index climbing thirteen points to 52.3, suggesting a return to
the high levels of optimism seen earlier in 2011. In response to
a series of supplementary survey questions about changes in
input and selling prices, manufacturers predicted that input
prices would increase by slightly more in calendar 2012 than in
2011 in some budget categories but by less in others. Prices
paid overall were reported to have risen 4.3 percent on average
in 2011, and this rate was expected to slow somewhat to 3.5
percent in 2012. Among the broad budget categories, employee
benefits showed the steepest price increases--both actual and
expected; respondents reported that these costs climbed 7.3
percent, on average, in 2011 and were expected to rise 6.1
percent in 2012. These increases were well below the 10 percent
average jump anticipated by respondents in last December’s
survey. Wages were expected to climb 2.8 percent on average in
2012. As for expected changes in selling prices, manufacturers
foresaw an average increase of 1.8 percent over the next year,
down from 3.2 percent in last December’s survey. Business
Activity Expands The general business conditions index rose nine
points in December to reach 9.5, indicating that business
activity improved over the month. The index had been near or
below zero since June, so this reading was the first since May
to show that manufacturing conditions had registered a
measurable gain. Nearly one-third of respondents reported that
conditions were better in December, while about one fifth
reported that conditions had worsened. The new orders index
advanced seven points, rising above zero to 5.1--a sign that
orders were modestly higher over the month. The shipments index
climbed eleven points to 20.9, indicating a significant increase
in shipments. The unfilled orders index moved deeper into
negative territory, falling eight points to -15.1. The delivery
time index held steady at 0.0, and the inventories index rose
but remained below zero at -3.5. Cost Increases Pick Up The
prices paid index rose six points to 24.4, indicating a slight
acceleration in input costs in December. However, the index
remains well below the levels seen earlier this year. The prices
received index inched down three points but remained above zero
at 3.5, indicating a small increase in selling prices.
Employment indexes were mixed, but essentially showed little
change in employment. The index for number of employees was 2.3,
indicating a slight increase in employment levels, while the
average workweek index was -2.3, indicating a slight decrease in
the length of the average workweek.  Six-Month Outlook Continues to Brighten  Future indexes climbed sharply for a second month in a row, a
sign that respondents have continued to become more optimistic
about the six-month outlook. The future general business
conditions index rose thirteen points to 52.3, reaching a level
comparable to the fairly high readings seen earlier this year.
The future new orders index surged nineteen points, to 54.7, and
the future shipments index jumped to 51.2. Input prices were
expected to rise relatively rapidly over the next six months,
with the future prices paid index climbing twenty points to 57.0.
Selling prices were also expected to rise; the future prices
received index advanced ten points to 36.1. Employment indexes
were higher, with the index for expected number of employees
moving up ten points to 24.4, and the average workweek index up
fourteen points to 22.1. The capital expenditures index held
steady at 23.3, and the technology spending index inched up to
15.1. 