-- U.S. Bans UAE Company for Supplying Internet Filter to Syria
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2011-12-15T20:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-s-bans-uae-company-for-supplying-internet-filter-to-syria.html
The U.S. Commerce Department banned
a United Arab Emirates company from receiving items under the
jurisdiction of U.S. export controls after it was found to have
shipped Internet filtering devices to Syria.  The devices, made by  Blue Coat Systems Inc. (BCSI)  of Sunnyvale,
 California , can be used to block pro-democracy websites and
identify activists as part of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
crackdown against dissidents, the department said today in a
statement.  Waseem Jawad, using the company names Infotec and Info
Tech, ordered multiple Blue Coat devices in December 2010 from
an authorized distributor in the UAE. The devices ended up in
Syria, according to the Commerce Department.  “It is vital that we keep technology that can be used to
further the repression of the Syrian people out of the hands of
the Syrian government,” Eric Hirschhorn, the undersecretary for
industry and security, said in the statement.  Steve Schick, a Blue Coat spokesman, declined to comment on
today’s announcement. Blue Coat has previously said in a company
statement that its products were “transferred illegally” into
 Syria  by a distributor. The company said it “does not sell to
countries embargoed by the US.”  Blue Coat agreed on Dec. 9 to be bought by an investor
group led by Thoma Bravo LLC for about $1.3 billion.  Human Rights Watch , based in  New York , has put the death
toll in Syria at more than 4,000, while the United Nations
estimates the number of civilians and army defectors killed
exceeds 5,000. The government says more than 1,100 members of
the security forces have been killed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  