-- U.S. Congress Approves $662 Billion Defense Plan Headed to Obama
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2011-12-15T21:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/u-s-congress-approves-662-billion-defense-plan-headed-to-obama.html
U.S. Congress  today passed a $662
billion defense authorization bill for 2012 which aims to
control costs of the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 jet and mandates
that members of al-Qaeda be placed in military prisons.  The  U.S. Senate  approved the final bill today by a vote of
86-13 and it goes to President  Barack Obama  for his signature.
The House approved the measure yesterday by a vote of 283-136.  The defense authorization act, which sets military policy
and spending targets for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1, also
includes a provision to impose sanctions on  Iran ’s central bank.  “We have demanded more accountability from nations like
Iran; we have aided our forces fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan;
and we look to emerging issues, like proliferation and cyber
threats,” said Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, the
California Republican who is chairman of the House Armed
Services Committee. “The  Department of Defense  will be a more
efficient steward of the taxpayer dollar.”  As the defense authorization bill is set to become law, the
companion 2012 Pentagon spending bill is tied up in House-Senate
negotiations.  The Pentagon is funded so far this fiscal year through a
stopgap measure which runs out tomorrow. House and Senate
negotiators have yet to agree on a catch-all spending bill which
includes the Department of Defense budget for 2012. Lawmakers
have agreed on $518 billion for Pentagon operations and about
$115 billion to cover wars in Afghanistan and  Iraq .  Defense authorization  The defense authorization bill includes a provision that
directs the Pentagon, in a forthcoming sixth F-35 production
contract, to place greater risk on Lockheed Martin to absorb
overruns.  If costs exceed a negotiated target, the company would
absorb the entire amount instead of splitting the increase with
the U.S. government. The U.S. is negotiating the fifth contract
for the F-35. At $382 billion, the F-35 is the Pentagon’s
largest weapons program.  Congressional negotiators also agreed to cut funding for
one F-35 jet for the  Air Force , dropping its purchase to 18 for
2012. The negotiators approved funding for seven carrier-based
F-35s requested by the Navy and six short take-off and vertical-
landing versions for the Marine Corps.  The 2012 defense authorization bill sets military policy
and spending targets at about $26.6 billion less than the
Pentagon’s request for the new fiscal year.  The bill includes $115.5 billion for the wars in
 Afghanistan  and Iraq and about $16.9 billion for Department of
Energy defense programs. It also would hold defense contractors
responsible for counterfeit parts in weapons systems.  Missile Defense  House and Senate negotiators agreed to $390 million for the
multinational missile-defense program known as the Medium
Extended Air Defense System. Three-fourths of that funding would
be restricted until the defense secretary submits a detailed
plan “either for implementing a smaller restructured program,
or for paying contract termination costs.”  The $4.2 billion development program is managed from
 Orlando ,  Florida , by Meads International LLC, a joint venture of
Lockheed, Lfk-Lenkflugkorpersysteme Gmbh of Germany and MBDA of
 Italy . MBDA is owned by  BAE Systems Plc , European Aeronautic,
Defence and Space Co. and  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)   The negotiators reported they were “extremely
disappointed” that the Pentagon’s agreement in 2004 with
Germany and Italy on the air defense system created an
“unacceptable situation for the  United States  in the event of
poor program execution, significant schedule delays or
significantly increased cost estimates, such as have taken
place.”  Tactical Vehicle Program  The bill also supports the Army and Marine Corps Joint
Light Tactical Vehicle program. The conference agreement
authorizes $152.2 million for continued development.  Three companies 2008 won technology development contracts
in 2008: General Tactical Vehicles, a joint venture of General
Dynamics Land Systems, part of  Falls Church , Virginia-based
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , and South Bend, Indiana-based AM General
LLC; BAE Systems Land & Armaments, part of London-based  BAE
Systems ; and Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin.  The final defense bill cuts $297.7 million of $775.8
million in the Army’s budget request for the Joint Tactical
Radio System, or JTRS. The system of wirelessly linked computers
is designed to deliver voice, video and data for platforms,
including tanks and aircraft.  Boeing Co. (BA) , General Dynamics and
Lockheed Martin have a stake in the program.  Shipbuilding Program  The House and Senate negotiators agreed on $14.9 billion
for 10 new ships and shipbuilding support, including the Navy’s
Littoral Combat Ship program, the DDG-51 Arleigh Burke
destroyer, the DDG-1000 guided missile destroyer and the LPD-17
amphibious transport dock ship.  The legislation requires the U.S. comptroller general to
submit an annual report on Boeing’s KC-46A tanker program,
beginning in fiscal year 2012 and concluding in fiscal 2017. The
reports would include assessments as to whether the Air Force
was making changes to the program’s requirements or
documentation.  The bill requires the secretary of the Army to certify that
the acquisition strategy for the production of radio systems
provides for “full and open competition that includes
commercially developed systems that are certified by the
National Security Agency and pass Army testing,” according to a
summary of the conference report provided by the Senate Armed
Services Committee.  The measure includes a requirement that members of al-Qaeda
be held in military detention.  At the request of the Obama administration, the compromise
bill adopts language to make it “100 percent clear” that the
revised bill wouldn’t interfere with the detention authority of
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  or other law enforcement
agencies, Levin told reporters.  The president would have the power to determine what
suspects have an al-Qaeda connection and therefore would go into
military detention, according to a committee news release.  The bill is H.R. 1540.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 