-- Hublot Looks at Entering Jewelry-Market With Scratch-Resistant Watch Gold
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2011-12-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/hublot-develops-gold-ceramic-alloy-for-scratch-resistant-watches.html
Hublot  plans to expand into the
jewelry market in 2013 after the Swiss watchmaker developed a
scratch-resistant gold alloy with a local technology institute.  The company, owned by  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,
plans to start selling cuff links and rings made with the 18-
carat alloy of gold and a ceramic, Chief Executive Officer Jean- Claude Biver said yesterday in an interview at Hublot
headquarters in Nyon, Switzerland. Watches will remain the
brand’s main focus, he said.  “There is a market for branded jewelry and therefore I
believe, if we have a unique selling proposition in our gold, we
should use it and go into jewelry,” Biver said. The move will
increase Hublot’s credibility and reinforce the brand, while
also increasing revenue, he said.  Watchmakers are working with new combinations of metals and
materials such as silicon to make timepieces that are more
durable and lighter, as well as to reduce the need for
lubricants. Hublot plans to introduce the first timepieces made
using the new process at the BaselWorld industry gathering in
March. It already uses another alloy designed to make watches
lighter yet resistant.  Hublot remains on course for revenue growth of about 30
percent this year, Biver said. The Swiss watch industry may
expand by 3 percent to 8 percent in 2012, depending on the
economic situation in  Europe , he said.  “I’m not worried about  China , I’m not so much worried
about America, I’m not worried about Russia or  Latin America ,”
Biver said. “My only worry is Europe.”  Boutique Openings  The company may open 25 to 27 boutiques globally in 2012,
including about 10 stores in China, according to Biver.  Hublot is also planning to build a plant next to its
headquarters that will focus on case manufacturing. The facility
may be operational in 24 to 30 months and employ more than 200
people in the coming years, Biver said.  The brand’s research and development focus in 2012 will be
on expanding Hublot’s capability to make movements, or the
motors inside a watch, and on working with new materials, the
CEO said.  The new gold alloy, dubbed Magic Gold, was developed
jointly with the  Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne .
It’s more than twice as hard as standard gold and can only be
scratched by diamond, Hublot said. The technology used to
develop it can be applied to other metals including silver and
platinum. Hublot has also used the process to make an aluminum
alloy.  The brand has no plans to share the technology with other
 watchmakers (UHR) , Biver said.  Alloy Color  Hublot, which makes about 30,000 watches each year,
including the Big Bang oversized model, has yet to determine the
final color of the new alloy, though it has determined that the
material will be slightly different from other shades of gold to
make it distinctive, Biver said.  Biver is known for reviving Blancpain, a brand founded in
1735 that stopped production in 1971 because of competition from
cheaper quartz watches. Biver and partner Jacques Piguet
restarted the company in 1983, and he sold it to Swatch Group AG
in 1992.  Biver, a watchmaker born in  Luxembourg , was responsible for
Omega’s marketing and led Blancpain at Swatch Group before he
left in 2004 and joined Carlo Crocco’s Hublot brand, which was
started in 1980. LVMH, the world’s largest luxury-goods maker
and the owner of the Tag Heuer and Zenith watch brands, bought
Hublot in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Nyon,  Switzerland , via 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  