-- Thoroughbred Sex, UBS, Ally, IndyMac, BNY in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2011-12-15T12:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/ubs-ally-financial-bny-mellon-bta-synthes-in-court-news.html
International rules adopted in
 Australia  requiring thoroughbreds to physically mate to produce
offspring eligible for racing are seen to illegally curb
competition and a lawyer said they should be abolished.  The industry’s “self-regulation has become anti-
competitive and exclusionary,” Ian Tonking, a lawyer for Bruce
McHugh, the former  Sydney Turf Club  chairman who sued to allow
artificial insemination for race horses, told a judge today.
“This court cannot conclude the rules do not substantially
lessen competition or amount to a constraint on trade.”  McHugh’s lawsuit challenges a multibillion-dollar industry
for breeding that sees owners of the world’s most-prized horses,
including Dubai’s ruler Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum,
send so-called shuttle stallions around the globe to breed with
mares. Tonking was commenting during the first of three
scheduled days of closing arguments before Sydney Federal Court
Justice Alan Robertson, who will rule on the case.  Allowing artificial insemination would threaten traditions
behind the sport’s appeal to kings, queens, sheikhs and
billionaires, Tony Bannon, lawyer for the Sydney Turf Club, had
said during the eight-week trial that concluded Oct. 28.  Fees  for a mating episode have reached as much as $330,000,
according to breednet.com, a website on the breeding industry in
Australia, the world’s second-biggest thoroughbred racing
jurisdiction behind the U.S.  The vast majority of breeders in Australia are small
operators, who have an average of three mares and whose voice is
being ignored, Tonking said during the trial. They would benefit
from not having to ship their mares to stud farms and gaining
access to the sperm of top-rated horses worldwide, he said.  “There is no public benefit that might outweigh the anti-
competitive conduct” of the industry, Tonking said today.  The case is Between Bruce McHugh and the Australian Jockey
Club Ltd. NSD1187/2009. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  For more, click here.  Ex-UBS Trader Says Bank Had No Unauthorized Trading Controls  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s wealth-management unit in  London  had no controls
to prevent unauthorized trading in client accounts, according to
a lawyer for a former trading desk head challenging a 1.25
million-pound ($1.93 million) fine.  UBS “was to some extent complicit” in Sachin Karpe’s
unauthorized trades because “senior managers” were copied on
e-mails about some client accounts, Karpe’s lawyer, Michael
Blair, said at a court hearing in London this week. An external
auditor’s review, commissioned by the bank, determined there
were no controls to prevent internal unauthorized transfers or
loans between clients of the bank unit, Blair said.  “He did not circumvent controls because there were none in
place,” Blair said. “If there were no rules, he could not have
been proved to be doing anything wrong.”  The case is one of three challenges by individual UBS
bankers to Financial Services Authority enforcement actions
stemming from the unauthorized trades. Zurich-based UBS in 2009
paid an 8 million pound-fine and agreed to reimburse customers
$42.4 million.  Karpe, who is also accused of moving money between client
accounts to hide losses from unauthorized foreign-exchange
trades and helping a client use an offshore investment fund in
violation of Indian law, is challenging the FSA fine at a court
hearing that began Dec. 12.  Karpe, who was fired from his post overseeing Indian
clients on the Asia-2 desk, accepts that he deserves a lifetime
ban from working in Britain’s financial services industry, Blair
said.  “That’s quite a considerable scalp for the FSA and it’s
not being challenged,” Blair said. The fine isn’t an
“appropriate penalty” because it would bankrupt Karpe, he
said.  Karpe and his desk made as many as 50 unauthorized trades a
day over a two-year period, according to the FSA. Over a one-
year period from 2006 to 2007, he placed 1,404 foreign-exchange
trades with values of $11.3 billion, 4.3 billion pounds, 1.9
billion euros ($2.5 billion), 109 billion Japanese yen ($1.4
billion), and 1.1 billion Swiss francs ($1.1 billion), the
regulator said in court documents.  The trades were discovered after a UBS whistle-blower
reported a $5,000 transfer from a customer account to Karpe’s
personal bank account in 2007, the FSA said. The bank began a
review that led to Karpe being fired in early 2008.  A UBS spokesman said the bank has “acknowledged that there
were weaknesses in certain aspects of Wealth Management U.K.’s
control environment.”  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Ally Financial  Sued by DZ Bank on Mortgage-Backed Securities  Ally Financial Inc.  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  were sued by
DZ Bank AG over the sale of $289.8 million of residential
mortgage-backed securities.  The defendants were “actively involved” in all aspects of
the securitization of the products, acting as underwriters,
broker-dealers and guarantors,  DZ , the central bank for the
German cooperative banks, said in a complaint filed Dec. 13 in
 New York  State  Supreme Court .  The offering for the sale misrepresented the underwriting
standards used in issuing the mortgages that were pooled to make
the securities, DZ said. Other defendants include RBS Securities
Inc. and Financial Guaranty Insurance Co.  “The offering materials also contained material
misrepresentations and omissions regarding key statistical
characteristics of the mortgage loans,” DZ said. These included
loan-to-value ratios and the percentage of owner-occupied
properties, DZ said.  “Specific claims are not clearly outlined in the
preliminary filing by this investor,”  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman
for Detroit-based Ally, said in an e-mail. “The company stands
by the disclosures and rejects the factual assertions in the
filing.”  Bank of America declined to comment, Lawrence Grayson, a
spokesman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based company, said
in an e-mail.  The case is Deutsche Zentral-Genossenschaftsbank v. Ally
Financial, 653449-2011, Supreme Court of the State of New York,
County of New York ( Manhattan ).  Iceland Sued by EFTA on U.K., Dutch Icesave Depositor Claims  Iceland is being sued by a European agency after failing to
compensate the U.K. and Dutch governments for depositor losses
from the collapse of  Landsbanki Islands hf .  “Iceland must comply with its obligations under the
European Economic Area Agreement,” Oda Helen Sletnes, the
president of the EFTA Surveillance Authority -- the European
Free Trade Association’s executive body -- said yesterday in a
statement. “It must ensure compensation of all depositors under
the conditions prescribed by the deposit guarantee directive and
without discrimination.”  U.K. and Dutch depositors were compensated by their
governments after Landsbanki’s 2008 failure left their savings
in limbo. Iceland said in September that proceeds from the
estate of Landsbanki will reach about $11 billion, enough to
cover all depositor losses, and about twice the amount owed
under the depositor guarantee directive. Landsbanki’s winding-up
committee said Dec. 7 it made a first payment of 432 billion
kronur ($3.5 billion) toward reducing its obligations.  “The EFTA Court is the normal recourse to resolve the
legal uncertainty in this matter,” the office of Iceland’s
Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir said in an e-mailed
statement. “Iceland’s government has outlined detailed
arguments for its position and will defend its interest
vigorously before the EFTA Court.”  Iceland’s Finance Minister Steingrimur J. Sigfusson didn’t
return calls seeking comment on the lawsuit.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Ex-IndyMac Chief Perry Must Face FDIC Lawsuit Over Loan Losses  Michael Perry, the ex- IndyMac Bancorp Inc. (IDMCQ)  chief executive
officer, must face the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s claims
over more than $600 million in losses on mortgage loans that
couldn’t be sold.  U.S. District Judge Otis Wright II in Los Angeles denied
Perry’s request to dismiss the lawsuit. The judge disagreed with
Perry’s argument that the so-called business-judgment rule
protects corporate officers as well as directors from lawsuits
over their decisions made on behalf of the corporation.  The “business-judgment rule does not protect officers’
corporate decisions,” the judge said in his Dec. 13 order,
citing  California  legislative history.  The FDIC sued Perry in July, alleging that he acted
negligently when he allowed IndyMac, once the second-largest
U.S. independent mortgage lender, to generate and purchase $10
billion in risky loans to be sold in the secondary market in
2007. The market at that time had become unstable and illiquid
and IndyMac wasn’t able to sell the loans, which caused the bank
$600 million in losses, the FDIC said.  IndyMac was seized by regulators in July 2008 after a run
by depositors left the Pasadena, California-based company
strapped for cash. The Securities and Exchange Commission, in a
lawsuit filed in February, accused Perry and two other former
IndyMac executives of failing to warn investors of the bank’s
deteriorating financial condition.  D. Jean Veta, a lawyer for Perry, didn’t return phone and
e-mail messages yesterday seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is FDIC v. Perry, 11-05561, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  BNY Asks Court to Dismiss New York’s Currency-Trading Suit  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the world’s largest custody
bank, asked a court to dismiss the New York attorney general’s
lawsuit accusing it of defrauding clients in foreign-exchange
transactions.  Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  sued BNY Mellon in
October, saying it misled clients about the pricing of currency
trades. BNY Mellon said in a filing Dec. 13 in New York State
Supreme Court that there was no fraud because clients were fully
informed.  “Those allegations negate any possibility of fraud because
a party that knows exactly what it is getting, and at what
price, cannot, as a matter of law have been defrauded,” the
bank said.  BNY Mellon made $2 billion over a 10-year period by
defrauding public and private pension funds, the attorney
general claims. The bank, which is also fighting lawsuits by
Florida and Virginia and the U.S. attorney’s office in
Manhattan, engaged in “a multi-pronged campaign of deception,”
the attorney general said.  Schneiderman’s complaint focuses on BNY Mellon’s “standing
instruction” program, in which a client gives the bank standing
authorization to execute certain foreign-exchange transactions
without negotiating the price of the purchase or sale in
advance, according to the lawsuit.  BNY Mellon falsely told these clients they would get “the
best rate of the day” and the “most attractive/competitive
rate” available to the bank, when in fact they received the
worst or almost the worst price at which the currency had traded
in the interbank market, according to the complaint.  “This lawsuit is wrong, both on the law and on the
facts,” Kevin Heine, a BNY Mellon spokesman, said in a
statement. “It is based on a fundamental misunderstanding of
the role of custodian banks and the operation of the global
foreign currency market.”  Danny Kanner, a spokesman for Schneiderman, declined to
comment on the bank’s filing.  The case is People of the State of New York v. The Bank of
New York Mellon Corp., 114735-2009, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-BTA Chairman Ablyazov Says He Didn’t Understand Order  Mukhtar Ablyazov, the former chairman of  BTA Bank (BTAS) , told a
U.K. court that he didn’t understand a freezing order against
him in a case over the Kazakh lender’s claims he embezzled more
than $5 billion.  BTA has asked the court to put Ablyazov, who fled
Kazakhstan to escape prosecution and lives in the U.K., in jail
for failing to reveal ownership of more than 600 shell companies
and a Moscow tower during its fraud case against him.  “I didn’t have any intention to hide anything,” Ablyazov
said in contempt proceedings at a London court yesterday. “I
did exactly as much as my solicitors advised me.”  BTA says Ablyazov and its former chief executive officer,
Roman Solodchenko, took more than $5 billion from the bank using
fake loans, back-dated documents and offshore companies.
Ablyazov claims the case is politically motivated because of his
opposition to Kazakh leader Nursultan Nazarbayev.  Ablyazov only now understands “what a freezing order was
about,” he told the court.  Earlier in the day, Syrym Shalabayev, Ablyazov’s brother-
in-law who was sentenced in June to 18 months in a U.K. jail for
failing to disclose his assets, gave evidence via video link
from an unknown location.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Kluger Pleads Guilty in Law-Firm Insider Trading Scheme  Attorney  Matthew Kluger  pleaded guilty to stealing
corporate merger tips from four law firms to fuel an insider
trading scheme that prosecutors said generated $37 million in
illegal profits.  Kluger, 50, was the third defendant to plead guilty,
admitting in federal court in Newark,  New Jersey , that he stole
nonpublic data on about 30 corporate transactions over 17 years.
He said he passed tips to middleman Kenneth Robinson, who gave
them to trader Garrett Bauer to buy shares. When the deals went
public, Bauer sold shares and gave cash to his partners.  Kluger “did it for selfish reasons that he recognizes and
feels terrible about,” his attorney, Alan Zegas, said in an
interview after the court hearing. Kluger passed along tips
gained from his work at four law firms including  Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP  and  Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati
PC .  Prosecutors said the scheme involved companies such as Sun
Microsystems Inc., 3Com Corp. and Acxiom Corp. They said Bauer,
who pleaded guilty Dec. 8, made more than $30 million in profit,
while Robinson and Kluger each made less than $1 million.
Robinson pleaded guilty April 11 after secretly recording the
other two men for the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  Kluger only learned after his arrest on April 6 that Bauer
was trading “far in excess of what he said he was doing” and
wasn’t splitting the profits equally, as the men agreed, Zegas
said after the hearing. “He would not have agreed if he knew
what Mr. Bauer was trading.”  Outside the courtroom, Kluger said: “I did not know
Bauer.”  Zegas disputed the government’s claim that it was a $37
million scheme. He said the length of Kluger’s sentence will
depend on the amount of profit he could have “reasonably
foreseen” he would make.  Like Bauer, Kluger pleaded guilty to securities fraud,
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, conspiracy to commit
money laundering and obstruction of justice. He also agreed to
forfeit $415,000 in cash.  The case is U.S. v. Bauer, 11-cr-03536, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  Bourke FCPA Bribery Conviction Upheld by U.S. Appeals Court  Frederic Bourke, a  Connecticut  businessman who co-founded
handbag maker Dooney & Bourke, failed to overturn his conviction
for a bribery scheme in an oil deal 13 years ago in Azerbaijan.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan yesterday upheld
Bourke’s conviction by a jury two years ago, saying there was
enough evidence to find that he knew of the bribery scheme or
took steps to avoid learning about it.  “A rational juror could conclude that Bourke deliberately
avoided confirming his suspicions” about bribes, two judges
wrote in a 27-page ruling. “This same evidence may also be used
to infer that Bourke actually knew about the crimes.”  The ruling comes as the U.S. Justice Department steps up
enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which outlaws
bribes to win overseas business. Federal prosecutors yesterday
charged eight ex-executives at  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, with conspiring to bribe Argentine
government officials to land a $1 billion contract to make
national identity cards.  Bourke’s lawyer, Michael Tigar, said his client, who was
sentenced to a year in prison, may seek a new hearing in the
appeals court or review of his case by the U.S. Supreme Court.  “We are disappointed in the results,” he said in a
statement.  Bourke was convicted at a 2009 trial in Manhattan of
conspiring to violate the FCPA by joining the bribery scheme. He
was sentenced to a year in prison. His lawyer, Michael Tigar,
didn’t immediately respond to a call for comment.  Bourke is free on bail.  The case began in 1998 after the collapse of a bid by an
investor group to buy Azerbaijan’s oil company. Prosecutors said
Bourke, without paying bribes himself, knew that the deal’s
promoter,  Viktor Kozeny , had bribed Azeri leaders when he
invested. Kozeny has said he paid millions of dollars in cash
and gave the Azeris a secret two-thirds interest in a venture he
formed to buy the oil company.  The Bourke case is U.S. v. Bourke, 05-cr-00518, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
appeal is U.S. v. Kozeny, 09-4704, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Second circuit.  For more, click here.  Accountant Gets 14 Months in Connecticut Hedge-Fund Case  A Venezuelan accountant was sentenced to 14 months in
prison for his role in trying to hinder a probe into a
Connecticut hedge fund manager accused of conducting a Ponzi
scheme.  Juan Carlos Guillen Zerpa, 44, was sentenced yesterday in
federal court in Bridgeport, Connecticut, for lying to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, according to Tom Carson,
spokesman for U.S. Attorney David Fein in New Haven.  Guillen admitted to aiding Francisco Illarramendi, majority
owner of Michael Kenwood Group LLC, a holding company for an
investment adviser through which Illarramendi managed several
 hedge funds . Illarramendi pleaded guilty to fraud and
obstruction on March 7.  Guillen was managing partner of BDO Guillen Martinez &
Asociados, the Venezuelan affiliate of BDO International Ltd.,
according to the  Latin American Herald Tribune . BDO is the
world’s fifth-largest accounting network, according to its
 website .  Guillen, who was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Stefan R.
Underhill, was an accounting professional who sold “his title
for an expected payday of $1 million in exchange for his
obstruction of justice and false statements to a federal agency
about the existence of hundreds of millions of dollars of
fraudulent assets,” prosecutors wrote in court papers.  Illarramendi, 42, of New Canaan, Connecticut, used money
from new investors to pay returns he promised to earlier ones
using fraudulent documents that purported to show his hedge
funds had hundreds of millions of dollars in credits, according
to prosecutors.  “We’re not happy with the result but at the same time I
understand it was a fair sentence,” Michael Diaz Jr., a lawyer
for Guillen, said in a phone interview. Diaz, of Diaz, Reus &
Targ LLP in Miami, had asked that his client be sentenced to the
63 days he spent in jail.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Guillen, 11-cr-76, U.S.
District Court, District of Connecticut (Bridgeport), and the
SEC case is SEC v. Illarramendi, 11-cv-78, U.S. District Court,
District of Connecticut (New Haven).  For more, click here.  Ex-Synthes Executive Gets Eight-Month Term in Bone-Cement Case  A former  Synthes Inc. (SYST)  executive was sentenced to eight
months in jail for his role in an unapproved trial of a bone-
cement compound that led to the deaths of three patients,
authorities said.  Richard Bohner, 57, of Malvern,  Pennsylvania , was the last
of four officials to be sentenced. They pleaded guilty to a
single misdemeanor count of shipping adulterated and misbranded
Norian XR in interstate commerce, according to a statement
yesterday from the U.S. Attorney’s office in Philadelphia.  The defendants “approved rogue clinical trials” using the
bone-void fillers “to treat vertebral compression fractures of
the spine in elderly patients,” without the permission of the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration, according to the statement.
U.S. District Judge Legrome Davis passed sentence Dec. 13.  Last month, Davis sentenced Michael Huggins and Thomas
Higgins, who got nine months in jail, and John Walsh, who got
five months.  The cement, approved for elsewhere in the body, was used in
the spines of 200 patients with fractured vertebrae. Three
patients died from a rapid drop in blood pressure during spinal
surgeries, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Norian Corp., 09-00403, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 