-- Udinese, Rubin, Bruges, AZ Complete Europa League Soccer Knockout Lineup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2011-12-15T23:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/udinese-rubin-bruges-az-claim-final-berths-in-last-32-of-europa-league.html
Udinese,  Rubin Kazan , Club Bruges
and  AZ Alkmaar  claimed the last four spots in the Europa League
round of 32 after they all tied their final group games 1-1.  Bruges won its group and Udinese, Rubin and AZ advanced
last night as runners-up in European soccer’s second-tier club
competition. The top two from each of the 12 groups will be
joined by the eight third-place finishers from the elite
 Champions League  in today’s draw.  Udinese tied Celtic to finish behind 2010 winner Atletico
 Madrid , which beat Rennes 3-1, in Group I. Antonio Di Natale’s
goal just before half time gave Udinese the home draw it needed
to progress. Celtic, which scored through Gary Hooper, would
have advanced by beating the Italian Serie A co-leader.  “With a bit of luck we’d be through,” Celtic manager Neil Lennon told ESPN. “To come away from home, to  Italy  of all
places, and play like that was good to see.”  Rubin Kazan, playing with 10 men after goalkeeper Sergei
Rzyhikov received a red card in the 12th minute for taking down
Georgios Georgiadis in the area, advanced by holding on to draw
with Group A winner PAOK Salonika. Nelson Valdez’s second-half
goal tied the game for Rubin after Vierinha scored with the
penalty kick resulting from Ryzhikov’s foul.  Tottenham and Birmingham followed fellow English club
Fulham in being eliminated. Spurs won 4-0 at Shamrock Rovers
though finished one point behind Rubin. The London team needed
to win, have Rubin lose and make up a goal difference of six in
order to progress.  “When you are in a situation like we were and you are
relying on another score, it is always difficult,” Spurs
manager  Harry Redknapp  told reporters.  Head-to-Head  Bruges’s home draw against 10-man Braga, last year’s
runner-up to Porto, was enough to win Group H.  Bjorn Vleminckx scored for Bruges before Ewerton tied it
for Braga, which had Elderson sent off in the first half. The
teams finished even with 11 points, with Bruges taking the top
spot on a better head-to-head record. Birmingham took third
place after beating Maribor 1-0 on Adam Rooney’s goal.  AZ Alkmaar’s draw with Group G winner Metalist Kharkiv sent
it into the knockout stage. AZ finished tied on eight points
with Austria Vienna, which beat Malmo 2-0, and advanced on a
superior goal difference.  Group B winner Standard Liege won 1-0 at Copenhagen and
runner-up Hannover beat Vorskla Poltava 3-1.  PSV Eindhoven ,
which had already won Group C, defeated Rapid Bucharest 2-1 and
Hapoel Tel-Aviv beat Legia Warsaw, which was guaranteed of
finishing second, 2-0.  Manchester United ,  Manchester City  and Porto are among the
teams dropping down from the Champions League. The two-match
series in the last 32 are scheduled for Feb. 16 and 23.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  