-- Ukraine’s Credit-Rating Outlook Cut to Negative by Moody’s on Funding Risk
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2011-12-15T09:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/ukraine-s-credit-rating-outlook-cut-to-negative-by-moody-s-on-funding-risk.html
Ukraine’s credit-rating outlook was
cut to negative from stable by Moody’s Investors Service, which
cited risks to funding, liquidity and political stability after
the country failed to meet the terms of bailout payments.  The revision means that Moody’s is more likely to lower the
country’s B2 foreign-currency debt rating, which is five steps
below investment grade.  Ukraine’s $15.6 billion bailout program with the
 International Monetary Fund  has been on hold this year as the
government refused to narrow the budget gap by raising the cost
of natural gas and utility services. Authorities are seeking to
renegotiate the terms of a gas-supply contract with  Russia  for a
lower price.  “This is due to a lack of reforms in the gas sector,
higher than expected pension expenditure as well as a
constrained fiscal reform momentum given the absence of an IMF
‘anchor,’” the Moody’s said in the report.  The hryvnia traded at 10.4138 per euro at 11:10 a.m. in
Kiev, compared with 10.4226 yesterday, gaining for a fourth day.  The government is facing a “significant” increase in debt
repayments next year, which is “of concern” given conditions
on global financial markets, Moody’s said.  Reserves, Politics  Ukraine’s foreign-exchange reserves have fallen since
August and the current-account deficit more than doubled between
January and October this year compared with 2010. Liquidity
risks have risen “significantly” in comparison with end of
2010, the Moody’s said.  “Considerable uncertainty” is surrounding current-account
prospects for next year, according to Moody’s.  Risks to political instability may also increase in the
run-up to parliamentary elections in the autumn of 2012,
according to the ratings company.  The declining popularity of President  Viktor Yanukovych  and
the imprisonment of former prime minister Yuliya Tymoshenko
weaken Ukraine’s outlook for a better institutional environment,
it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  