-- United Technologies Sees ’12 Sales Topping Views on Goodrich
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2011-12-16T01:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/united-technologies-forecasts-2012-sales-exceeding-estimates.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  forecast
2012 sales that would exceed analysts’ estimates as Chief
Executive Officer Louis Chenevert folds in the acquisition of
 Goodrich Corp. (GR)   Revenue including Goodrich will be $64 billion next year,
Hartford, Connecticut-based United Technologies said today in a
slide presentation ahead of a meeting in New York with analysts
and investors. That compares with the $63 billion average of the
10 most-recent estimates among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  United Technologies agreed in September to buy Goodrich,
the world’s largest maker of aircraft landing gear, for $16.5
billion to bolster a stable of products that includes Sikorsky
helicopters, Otis elevators and Carrier air conditioners. The
company said it expects the deal to close in June.  “My goal is to move fast,” Chenevert, 54, said at the
meeting. He called 2012 “a transition year,” in which  United
Technologies  expects Goodrich costs to damp profit, before the
purchase begins to buoy earnings in 2013.  Earnings per share excluding Goodrich will be $5.80 to $6,
United Technologies said. Profit including Goodrich will be
$5.30 to $5.50 a share.  Goodrich should add 20 cents to 25 cents a share in
earnings in 2013, Chenevert said.  Equity ‘Hate’  While United Technologies said in September that about 25
percent of the acquisition would be financed with equity and the
rest with new debt, Chenevert signaled today that he might
reduce the proportion of stock involved.  “I really hate issuing equity,” Chenevert said. While
saying he “loves” United Technologies’ lineup of aerospace and
commercial lineup, he said there are smaller pieces that may not
fit and that may be targeted for disposal to raise cash.  “We’re going to see what pieces of the business long-term
are going to create value and what is going to help us minimize
equity issuance, and I’ll just leave it at that,” he said.  The shares rose 0.8 percent to $74.15 at 7:12 p.m. in late
trading in  New York . United Technologies had fallen 6.6 percent
this year through today’s close.  Citing IHS Global Insight estimates, United Technologies
projected worldwide expansion of 2.9 percent. That “feels
optimistic” Chenevert said, noting  Europe ’s debt crisis and
slowing growth in some  emerging markets , which have been leading
United Technologies’ sales gains.  The company lowered the profit forecast for the fire and
security business in 2011 to $50 million from $100 million as it
takes longer than expected to integrate more than 60
acquisitions in the past several years.  Some pieces may be divested as United Technologies seeks to
achieve margins at its newly formed Climate, Controls & Security
division exceeding 15 percent by 2015, up from 12 percent this
year, Chenevert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  