-- VimpelCom Slips to Two-Month Low as Russia Unit Head Named
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2011-12-15T23:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/vimpelcom-slips-to-two-month-low-as-new-russia-unit-head-named.html
VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  slid to the lowest
level in more than two months in New York trading as the mobile-
phone provider appointed a television-network chief as the new
head of its Russian unit.  American depositary receipts of VimpelCom slid for an
eighth day, declining 1.2 percent to $9.49, the lowest closing
price since Oct. 5.  Amsterdam-based VimpelCom named Anton Kudryashov, the
former chief executive officer of CTC Media Inc., as head of its
Russian subsidiary, the company said in a statement today.
Russia’s second-biggest mobile-phone provider, VimpelCom merged
with  Italy ’s Wind Telecom SpA this year and will decide in
January whether to buy control of Euroset Holding NV, operator
of Russia’s biggest mobile retailer, Elena Prokhorova, a Moscow-
based spokeswoman, said on Dec. 9.  “It’s hard to see where he will take VimpelCom,”  Anna Lepetukhina , an analyst at Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest
investment bank, said by phone from Moscow. “He is now leaving
CTC Media with a string of problems, after cutting spending on
their in-house production and losing audience share. On the top
of that, he has no experience in telecoms.”  Kudryashov has been CEO of CTC Media since August 2008 and
previously worked as a banker at Credit Suisse First Boston
International and Moscow brokerage  Renaissance Capital , where he
was a founding partner, VimpelCom said in its statement today.
From 2002 to 2003 he was restructuring CEO of NTV-Plus, a
Russian digital satellite TV service, the filing said.  CTC Media Inc. (CTCM) , the U.S.-listed Russian television network,
gained 0.3 percent to $8.89 in the U.S.  CTC Earnings  The network’s audience share slid to 9.9 percent in the
third quarter, from more than 11 percent in the five previous
quarters, according to TNS Gallup Media data posted on CTC
Media’s website. Net income fell 33 percent in the three months
to Sept. 30 and the 2011 operating growth forecast was cut to 9
percent on Nov. 9, from an earlier estimate of 20 percent,
because of slowing advertising demand. CTC Media planned to
invest $25 million this year, according to third-quarter
financial reports.  VimpelCom has sold $3.7 billion of bonds this year, the
biggest Russian corporate debt issuer, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Russian companies issued $43 billion of
ruble-denominated and other currency debt in 2011, the data
show.  Elena Shmatova, the current head of VimpelCom’s Russian
unit, will move to the company’s headquarters in the Netherlands
as group director of business control, development and mergers
and acquisitions reporting to Chief Financial Officer Henk Van Dalen, according to today’s statement.  CTC Media Chief Financial Officer Boris Podolsky will stand
in for Kudryashov until a permanent replacement is found, the
Moscow-based company said in its filing. Petr Aven, the
billionaire president of  Russia ’s Alfa Bank, will step down from
CTC Media’s board to be replaced by Dmitri Lebedev, a former
chairman of Bank Rossiya, according to a separate e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  