-- Voters See Pitfalls in Gingrich as They Weigh Republican Race
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2011-12-15T17:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/voters-see-pitfalls-in-gingrich-as-they-weigh-candidates.html
It’s just a few hours after  Mitt Romney  has taken to the cable airwaves to brand  Newt Gingrich 
“erratic” that a New Hampshire couple stands face-to-face with
the former U.S. House speaker trying to decide if they agree.  “Newt has the strongest intellect and the best ability to
solve the problems we’re facing, but it really boils down to
putting the past behind us,” said Jack Raitto, 52, a software
engineer who’s come to Hollis Pharmacy in Hollis, New Hampshire,
to size up Gingrich for himself.  Elated by the 1994 Republican resurgence Gingrich helped
engineer, “we felt let down in 1998,” when he announced he
would be giving up the speakership and leaving Congress after an
ethics reprimand and political setbacks, said Melanie Raitto,
53, a church music director.  “He’s sharp, he has the ideas, he has the ability to stand
up and get things done, but it’s hard to forget the past,” she
said.  For Gingrich, leading in the polls less than three weeks
before the Jan. 3  Iowa  caucuses kick off the Republican
nominating contest, persuading wavering voters like the Raittos
that he can be a reliable and effective leader is a central
challenge. And the task is getting more difficult as Gingrich’s
opponents step up their efforts to remind the public of his
record’s less flattering aspects.  Fond Memories  Gingrich’s rise has been powered in large part by fond
memories of his role in articulating a new conservative agenda
that helped propel Republicans in 1994 to their first House
majority in 40 years.  Still, voters also remember the partisan rancor Gingrich
presided over during a 1995-96 government shutdown fights with
President  Bill Clinton , Republican infighting under his
speakership, and his ethical troubles.  “There is a lot of nostalgia about Newt, but that is a
two-edged sword,” said Rich Galen, a former senior aide to
Gingrich who isn’t involved in the presidential campaign. “The
good news is everybody pines for the good old days, but the bad
news is they’re old days, and they also come with big red flags.
There was a great amount of turmoil back then.”  The contradiction is reflected in recent poll data. A Wall
Street Journal-NBC  poll  conducted Dec. 7-11 found Gingrich with
a large advantage in the Republican race, with backing from 40
percent compared to Romney’s 23 percent.  Weaker Against Obama  The same survey found Romney is better-positioned to beat
President  Barack Obama  --drawing backing from 45 percent of
registered voters compared to 47 percent for the president --
while Gingrich would trail Obama 40 percent to 51 percent.  Gingrich is aware of the challenge, and he puts a positive
spin on his congressional career in conversations with voters
and on the airwaves.  In a new television advertisement his campaign released
today to run in Iowa, Gingrich harks back to his tenure as
speaker, when “our budget was balanced and 11 million jobs were
created. We can do it again,” he says.  Raitto said Gingrich told him the reason he left Congress
was “that they had done so many things in the four years that
Republicans were burned out, so he just decided to step back.”  House Retirement  In fact, Gingrich’s exit followed a tumultuous four-year
tenure as speaker in which his approval rating plunged during
the government-shutdown crisis, a band of his Republican
colleagues attempted to oust him, and he received a House
reprimand and paid $300,000 to reimburse investigation expenses
in connection with an Ethics Committee  probe  of charges that he
used tax-exempt funds for political purposes. For his Republican
colleagues, the final straw came when they saw their majority
shrink in the 1998 midterms.  Art McKee of Hollis said when he sees Gingrich on the
campaign trail, he sees a man transformed from the firebrand of
the 1990s.  “He was seen as being such a hothead, and he has changed -
- he’s now a Roman Catholic and the hard edges have been taken
off of him,” McKee said. “He’s been there, he’s done it, and
we’re not always perfect -- he’s trying to do the best he can.”  Gingrich, who had been a Protestant, converted to
Catholicism after his marriage to his third -- and current --
wife, Callista.  One major reservation for McKee -- who is deciding between
Romney and Gingrich -- is the image of Gingrich “sitting on
that couch with  Nancy Pelosi ,” in a 2008 public service
television commercial for a group run by former Vice President
 Al Gore  advocating action to address  climate change .  Troubling Pelosi Ad  The ad, which Romney and Republican Representative  Ron Paul 
of Texas have featured prominently in commercials targeting
Gingrich, raises questions about Gingrich’s judgment, McKee
said.  Romney released a campaign video yesterday that rehashed
the global warming ad and asked, “With friends like Newt, who
needs the left?” A political action committee backing Romney is
running advertisements in Iowa saying Gingrich has “a ton of
baggage,” including his ethics charges.  Romney is also dispatching surrogates who worked with
Gingrich when he was speaker to brand him as unsuited to the
office of the presidency. Former  New Hampshire  Governor John H.
Sununu told radio host Scott Hennen Dec. 9 that people who
worked daily with Gingrich concluded, “This man is not
stable.”  Paul released a video Dec. 13 accusing Gingrich of
“selling access,” and is running television advertisements in
Iowa charging him with “serial hypocrisy” for the lucrative
consulting contracts he landed after leaving Congress.  “I’d probably vote for Romney over Newt because it just
doesn’t seem like Newt has what it takes to run the country,”
said Patti Lou, 59, of Laconia. “He has terrific ideas, but I
think he’s a bit of a hothead. Remember all those tantrums he
threw in the 1990s?”  Gingrich was publicly ridiculed in 1995 after he complained
about being asked to use the back staircase to exit Air Force
One during a Clinton administration trip to  Israel . The New York
Daily News later ran a front-page cartoon picturing Gingrich as
a giant baby wearing a diaper. “That was just embarrassing,”
Lou said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  