-- Voter Pessimism on Economy May Blunt Obama’s Better Jobs Picture
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2011-12-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/voter-pessimism-on-u-s-economy-may-blunt-obama-s-gains-from-jobs-growth.html
It may become a bit easier to find a
job just as President Barack Obama campaigns to keep his own.  A series of economic reports points to a pick-up in hiring
as the election year opens, potentially easing a central source
of voter discontent with the incumbent president.  Still, public pessimism about the  U.S. economy  has become
so entrenched that it’s likely to limit the political benefit to
Obama, said Dennis Jacobe, chief economist for the Gallup Poll.  “We may see a creeping improvement but there’s still going
to be a huge percentage of Americans who are going to say the
economy’s getting worse rather than better,” Jacobe said.  Democratic strategists say any sustained improvement in
hiring would bolster the president’s re-election chances.  “Right now, the perception that his economic policies have
not turned things around is holding back his support,” said  Tad Devine , a senior strategist for the Al Gore and John Kerry
presidential campaigns. “If people see light at the end of the
tunnel, that light is going to be very beneficial to the
president.”  A Labor Department report yesterday that the fewest workers
in more than three years filed  claims  for  unemployment benefits 
last week was the latest indicator signaling more job
opportunities.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 0.3 percent and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed 45.33 points, or 0.4
percent, to 11,868.81 in New York time yesterday as investors
read the report as a sign the economy is strengthening.  Positive Data  An accumulation of positive employment data “suggests that
hiring activity has picked up to the best rate so far in the
economic recovery,”  Andrew Tilton , a senior economist at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said in a note to clients.  Manpower Inc.’s quarterly survey of large companies,
released Dec. 13, showed hiring intentions at their highest
level since 2008. A monthly survey by the National Federation of
Independent Businesses, released the same day, showed small-
business hiring plans also at the highest levels in three years.  The  unemployment rate  in November dropped to 8.6 percent,
the lowest since March 2009, from 9 percent the month earlier.  Tilton said even with recent progress, hiring has “a lot
further to improve” to reach the pace typical of a robust
economic recovery. The economy also remains vulnerable to shocks
such as a deterioration of the European debt crisis, he said.  Some economists were more optimistic.  Unemployment Forecast  “It looks like Christmas is coming after all this year for
the economy,”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist for Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, said in a note to clients. He forecast
the jobless rate will drop to 7.2 percent by late next year.  The administration’s own forecast, issued Sept. 1, is for
the unemployment rate to remain above 8 percent in 2012. Only
one U.S. president has been re-elected since World War II with a
jobless rate above 6 percent. In 1984  Ronald Reagan  won a second
term with the rate on Election Day at 7.2 percent, having
dropped almost 3 percentage points in the previous 18 months.  Any improvement in the coming months will be too little,
too late to help Obama, said Republican pollster  Ed Goeas .  Goeas said it typically takes at least six months of
“solid growth on all fronts” to shift voter perceptions of the
economy. Even if job growth improves that may well push up the
election-year  unemployment rate  as discouraged workers return to
the  labor force , he said. Jobless workers are only counted as
unemployed if they are actively seeking employment.  Public Perceptions  After the longest period of unemployment above 8 percent
since the Great Depression, public perceptions of Obama’s
performance are ingrained, Goeas said. Sixty percent of
Americans disapprove of his handling of the economy, according
to a CBS/New York Times poll conducted Dec. 5-7.  “Minor changes in the economic climate are not going to
undo those deep-rooted feelings the public has about the
president,” Goeas said.  Sixty-seven percent of Americans say the economy is getting
worse, according to Gallup’s most weekly tracking poll,
conducted Dec. 5-11. That is down from a peak this year of 78
percent who said so Aug. 8-14, following the debt-limit standoff
between Obama and congressional Republicans that brought the
country to the brink of default.  Devine, the Democratic strategist, said the faster flow of
information and analysis in the age of the Internet and 24-hour
cable television news can shift public perceptions quickly.  People also understand that the 2008 financial crisis was
an event unprecedented since the Great Depression, Devine said.
As a result, he said, voters won’t demand to see a more typical
improvement after a recession to re-elect the incumbent.  ‘Risky’ Return  Any improvement in the job situation will make it easier
for Obama to attack Republican policies as a “risky” return to
the approach of the George W. Bush administration, Devine said.  “The risks of moving away from his policies grow
enormously, and I think the one thing that’s true of voters and
investors at this point is they have become risk averse,”
Devine said.  The key is persuading voters that the economy is moving in
the right direction, Devine said.  “It comes down to two simple things: whether people think
things are changing and getting better,” Devine said. “If that
happens, it just changes the whole mood of the electorate.
People begin to see the past differently and the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 