-- Wall Street Confounded as Volatility Extends Record Stretch
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2011-12-15T17:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/wall-street-traders-confounded-as-global-volatility-extends-record-streak.html
Duke Buchan III’s $1 billion hedge
fund beat U.S. stocks by 46 percent in the decade through March,
a period that included the steepest equity-market losses since
the 1930s.  Then came the selloff in August when global stocks suffered
their worst nine-day drop since the 2008 financial crisis. For
four days,  The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  alternated between
gains and losses of more than 400 points, the longest streak
ever, and its  intraday swings  have averaged twice the level seen
during the first seven months of the year. Last week, Buchan
told clients he is shutting his firm Hunter Global Investors LP.  “Markets seem to be driven more by the latest news out of
Europe than by a company’s earnings prospects,” Buchan, 48,
said in a Dec. 8 investor letter. “We have not weathered the
ensuing volatility well.”  Traders who used to profit from price swings are struggling
as record stock market volatility shows no signs of abating.
Hedge funds are on track to post their second-worst year on
record, with managers such as  John Paulson  seeing bets
undermined by Europe’s two-year sovereign-debt crisis and
concerns over the U.S. economic recovery. U.S. mutual funds are
headed for their second-weakest year of deposits in two decades,
and the top  Wall Street  banks posted their worst quarter in
trading and  investment banking  since the depths of the 2008
financial crisis.  Jeffrey Kronthal, a former Merrill Lynch & Co. senior
fixed-income executive, said he’s never seen so much volatility
over such a long period as this in his 33-year trading career.  ‘Friend of Wall Street’  “Volatility, to a certain extent, was a friend of Wall
Street, but not like this,” said Kronthal, who co-runs the $1.2
billion hedge fund KLS Diversified Asset Management in New York.
“I haven’t seen volatility like this in a sustained way ever
before.”  Traders used to profit from volatility in the aftermath of
events such as the 2008 bankruptcy of investment bank Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. or the 1998 collapse of U.S. hedge fund
Long-Term Capital Management LP, when markets established or
returned to medium- to long-term trends, according to Cedric Kohler, head of advisory at Fundana SA, a Geneva-based firm that
advises clients on hedge-fund investing.  Historic Volatility  That hasn’t been the case in the second half of this year,
as swings in the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index
rose to a record. Three-month  historic volatility  for the gauge
known as the VIX increased to a record 191.59 on Oct. 31, above
the 92.56 median over the past decade and surpassing the prior
peak of 190.44 from December 2008. The benchmark for U.S.
options prices and expected stock-market swings surged the most
in four years on Aug. 8 after  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the
U.S. of its top  credit rating  for the first time.  The Dow plunged 634.76 points the first trading day after
the U.S. downgrade for the biggest drop in two years. Over the
next three days it rebounded 429.92 points, plunged 519.83
points and rallied 423.37 points.  Dow  swings  between intraday highs and lows averaged 126.49
points this year through July. Since Aug. 1 they averaged 261.22
points. The Dow is 245.97 points above where it ended last year.  “We’re in an environment where no clear trend has
emerged,” Kohler said.  Periods of Bullishness  Much of the volatility has been driven by Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis, which began more than two years ago in
Greece before spreading to Ireland, Portugal, Italy and Spain.
This month European leaders agreed to on a blueprint for a
closer fiscal union, added 200 billion euros ($260 billion) to
their warchest and sped the start of a 500 billion-euro rescue
fund to next year. It didn’t put an end to the crisis.  Hedge funds have struggled because there hasn’t been an
obvious trend and there have been periods of bullishness that
have confused traders, said  Michael Platt , the founder of the
$30 billion hedge fund BlueCrest Capital Management LLP.  “The process has been unfolding over two years,” Platt
said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside
Track With  Erik Schatzker .” “It has been extremely gradual and
there’s been a lot of optimism that a solution will be found.”  The VIX closed at 26.04 yesterday, or 27 percent above the
20.56 average over its  21-year history . All  VIX futures  expiring
next year trade above 30, indicating that investors are betting
that stock-market volatility will remain above average for the
next eight months.  April futures  trade at 31.70, which indicates
that options traders expect the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  to make daily
moves of about 2 percent.  ‘It Was Frustrating’  John Brynjolfsson, who runs the $700 million hedge fund
Armored Wolf LLC in Aliso Viejo, California, said he’s been
skeptical about announcements by European policy makers to avert
the crisis. He had made money for much of November before most
of his gains for the month were wiped out as global stocks
surged on Nov. 30 when six central banks made additional funds
available to ease strains on markets.  “The risk-on, risk-off environment has been frustrating,”
he said, adding that his firm has been trading portfolios more
actively in the past months. “It was frustrating to lose the
money we had made earlier in the month.”  Hedge funds overall declined an  average  4.4 percent this
year through November, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund
Research. The industry lost a record 19 percent in 2008. The  S&P
500  returned 1.1 percent this year through November, including
reinvested dividends.  Trailing Treasuries  The benchmark for American equities gained as much as 8.4
percent  this year  when it rose to the highest in almost three
years. The intensifying debt crisis and U.S. downgrade pushed it
to within 1 percentage point of a bear market, defined as a 20
percent plunge from its April high.  Hedge funds are also trailing U.S. Treasuries, considered
the safest and most liquid investment. Treasuries returned 8.8
percent through November, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data, despite the decision by S&P to downgrade the
U.S.  “In the past, most periods of volatility were relatively
brief, except during the 2000-2002 bear market where hedge funds
were actually flat when the markets were down close to 50
percent,” said Mustafa Jama, chief investment officer at  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  Alternative Investment Partners, which invests about
$11.6 billion in hedge funds on behalf of clients. “What we’re
seeing now is a sustained period of high volatility that’s
proving very challenging for a lot of hedge-fund managers.”  ‘Not Our Market’  S&P’s move destabilized equity markets at the beginning of
August, and losses for the S&P 500 continued through early
October as concern about the European crisis intensified.
Hunter’s Buchan said the past four months in particular had been
frustrating.  “It has not been our kind of market: macro-driven and
highly correlated, with little regard to individual company
fundamentals,” he said in the letter, referring to the fact
that different securities have moved increasingly in lockstep.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley posted $13.5
billion in trading revenue minus accounting gains for the third
quarter, down 35 percent from a year earlier. Investment-banking
revenue plunged 41 percent from the second quarter to $4.47
billion.  Back to 2008  Bank of America posted a roughly 90 percent drop in fixed-
income trading revenue and Goldman Sachs had its lowest debt
underwriting quarter since 2003. JPMorgan, the biggest U.S.
lender by assets, doesn’t expect a pickup in investment bank
revenue this quarter when excluding accounting adjustments,
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said Dec. 7.  Compared with 2008, “the volatility in the markets is
similar in terms of the fact that people are taking a much more
conservative approach,”  Brady Dougan , chief executive officer
of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , said in an interview last month.
Switzerland’s second-largest bank on Nov. 1 said it would cut
about 1,500 more jobs at the securities unit after the division
reported its first quarterly loss since 2008.  Morgan Stanley said today it plans to cut about 1,600 jobs
amid an industrywide drop in revenue. Financial firms have
disclosed plans to eliminate more than 200,000 jobs globally
this year in response to market turmoil, economic weakness and
fallout from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  ‘High Wire’  In addition to record VIX volatility, traders are
struggling because assets move increasingly in lockstep. The
correlation of S&P 500 companies to gains or losses in the index
increased to a record 0.86 last month, according to data
compiled by Birinyi Associates Inc. in Westport, Connecticut. A
level of 1 would mean all 500 stocks moved together. Correlation
was 0.77 as of Nov. 18, 71 percent higher than its average since
1980, the data show.  “Past crises were more localized,” said Armored Wolf’s
Brynjolfsson. “You had one company, or one market, industry or
one country having problems and they often got bailed out. Here
we’re dealing with an entire financial and economic system. It’s
like walking on a high wire but this time without a safety
net.”  Options investors are paying near-record prices to protect
against a bear market in the next year on concern that Europe’s
debt crisis in will spread. Implied volatility for puts that pay
should the S&P 500 fall 20 percent over the next 12 months trade
at 12.47 points above comparable calls, near last month’s record
13.69 point gap, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Paulson’s Losses  Managers in the $2 trillion hedge-fund industry are cutting
risk. The average net exposure of equity market-neutral and
long-short hedge funds fell to a two-year low of 0.67 at the end
of November, according to data from JPMorgan.  Net exposure is calculated by subtracting the amount of a
hedge fund’s bets on falling securities, or short positions,
from its wagers on rising securities.  Paulson, who is having the worst year of his career as bets
on a U.S. economic recovery go awry, reduced risk at his firm
after losing as much as 47 percent in the first nine months in
one of his biggest funds.  As a result he underperformed markets in October when the
S&P 500 posted its best monthly gain since 1991 and his fund
rose 2.4 percent. Paulson told investors last month that his New
York-based firm, Paulson & Co., was reducing its bullish bets
across all funds until there was more certainty that Europe can
contain its debt crisis.  James Caird Asset Management LP, the London-based firm run
by former Moore Capital Management LLC trader  Tim Leslie , told
clients this week that he plans to liquidate a $1.6 billion
credit hedge fund after eight years because of losses this year.  ‘Structural’ Changes  Leslie attributed the losses to “poor liquidity and the
unfolding crisis in financial markets.” He said the lack of
market liquidity is “structural” and not something that will
go away any time soon.  Smaller investors are also pulling back. U.S. mutual funds
that invest in stocks and bonds attracted an estimated $42
billion through November, according to the Investment Company
Institute, a Washington-based trade group. Funds have seen net
withdrawals in every month since June, with redemptions reaching
a peak in August.  At the current rate, 2011 is on pace to be the second-
weakest year in two decades, ICI data show. In 2008, the worst
year, investors withdrew $225 billion.  “Retail clients get particularly scared by excessive
volatility,”  Colm Kelleher , co-head of Morgan Stanley’s
institutional securities unit, said at a Bloomberg conference on
Dec. 1.  Pulling Money  Market volatility may rise further as trading slows. U.S.
 equity-trading volume  has averaged 7.90 billion shares a day
this year, down from 8.52 billion shares per session last year
and 9.77 billion shares in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Banks preparing for tougher capital standards under the
Basel III international accord and complying with U.S. financial
regulations that curb proprietary trading have reduced market
liquidity, KLS’s Kronthal said. His fund has pared the amount of
longer-term wagers it makes as a result.  “Traders like volatility to an extent but not when there’s
this degree of uncertainty and lack of rhyme and reason behind
it,” said  Andy Nybo , principal at Tabb Group LLC in New York, a
consulting firm to the financial-services industry. “I would
say traders are suffering from volatility fatigue. It’s creating
a reticence to trade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  