-- Wells Fargo Fined by Finra Selling Structured Notes to Aged
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2011-12-15T18:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/wells-fargo-fined-2-million-for-selling-structured-notes-to-80-year-olds.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  was fined $2
million by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority for
failing to supervise its top salesman of reverse convertibles as
he recommended the derivatives to elderly investors.  Alfred Chi Chen, 64, generated more than $1 million in
commissions in 2008 as he sold “hundreds” of reverse
convertibles, which are short-term bonds that convert into stock
if a company’s share price plummets, according to a complaint
released today by  Finra , the Washington-based industry-funded
brokerage regulator. Chen also made unauthorized trades in
several customer accounts, including those of dead people.  “Wells Fargo failed to review reverse convertible
transactions to ensure they were suitable,” Brad Bennett,
Finra’s chief of enforcement, said in a  statement .  The fine comes as regulators increase their scrutiny of
sales of structured products to individual investors. Wall
Street banks create the investments and recommend them as an
alternative to buying stocks and bonds directly, with sales
reaching a record $49.5 billion in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, which Finra also said
failed to provide some customers with discounts on unit
investment trusts, didn’t admit or deny the allegations in
settling the complaint. The bank also is required to pay
restitution to customers who were sold “unsuitable” reverse
convertibles between 2006 and June 2008, Finra said.  Top Producer  “Wells Fargo Advisors will continue to support the
processes and procedures in place to prevent this kind of
activity from happening,” Vince Scanlon, a Wells Fargo
spokesman in Winston-Salem,  North Carolina , said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are glad to have this behind us.”  Chen, who was based in  Sacramento ,  California , for Wells
Fargo Investments LLC, was the bank’s top producer of commission
revenue from reverse convertibles in 2008, according to Finra’s
 complaint  against him. He was “relentless” as he convinced his
customers, many of whom were more than 80 years old, to sell
other investments and buy the volatile securities, the regulator
said.  In 2007, Chen recommended that an 88-year-old woman sell an
annuity and use the money to buy reverse convertibles, ignoring
her instructions that she didn’t want to trade stocks, Finra
said. When some of the reverse convertibles plummeted, leaving
her with devalued stock, Chen told her to sell the shares to buy
more of the structured products.  State Probe  Wells Fargo “failed to reasonably supervise” Chen,
instead promoting him and citing him as a “successful example
of how reverse convertibles” should be sold, according to
Finra’s  complaint  against the firm.  Chen also made unauthorized trades in “several” accounts,
including those of customers who had died, Finra said. Wells
Fargo fired him in November 2008. The bank ended up paying $1.39
million to settle 21 complaints made by Chen’s customers,
according to the broker’s Finra  record . Last May, it paid
$36,251 to a customer who claimed to have lost $263,869 as a
result of his advice.  Ten states including  Florida ,  Texas ,  New Hampshire  and
 Missouri  are examining whether brokers sold the complex products
without explaining their risks, Franklin L. Widmann, head of the
structured products working group for the  North American
Securities Administrators Association , said in October.  SEC Investigation  In July, the SEC released the results of an investigation
into structured products, saying brokers may have taken
advantage of some investors. Carlo di Florio, director of the
office of compliance inspections and examinations, said in a
statement at the time that the regulator was monitoring the
market and “considering additional steps.”  Finra, which is deputized by the SEC to oversee the
brokerage industry, fined Banco Santander SA $2 million in April
for improper sales of reverse convertibles. Last year, it
penalized Ferris, Baker Watts LLC and H&R Block Financial
Advisors Inc. over the securities. The brokerages didn’t admit
or deny the allegations.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 