-- Wells Fargo Is ‘Optimistic’ About Buying European Bank Assets, Baird Says
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2011-12-15T21:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/wells-fargo-is-optimistic-it-can-acquire-europe-bank-assets-baird-says.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  is “optimistic”
about buying more European bank assets as the region’s lenders
act to weather the debt crisis, said Robert W. Baird & Co.  “Management is optimistic about the potential for
additional asset purchases or business opportunities as European
banks deleverage further,”  David George , a Baird analyst, wrote
in a note to clients today after meeting with David Hoyt, head
of the San Francisco-based lender’s wholesale-banking division.  The company has purchased at least three loan portfolios
from troubled Irish banks this year. It agreed last month to buy
$3.3 billion of U.S. commercial real-estate loans from Irish
Bank Resolution Corp., the former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. Wells
Fargo also bought $1.4 billion of loans from Bank of Ireland Plc
and part of Allied Irish Banks LLC’s $1 billion loan portfolio.  Wells Fargo is pursuing European assets as private-equity
firms and distressed investors such as Apollo Global Management
LLC and Oaktree Capital Management LP seek deals on the
Continent. The region’s lenders may shrink assets by 1.5
trillion euros ($2 trillion) to 2.5 trillion euros during the
next 18 months, Morgan Stanley analysts including Huw van Steenis wrote in a note last month.  “Management noted that European banks are beginning to
shrink their U.S. large corporate portfolios, which should also
provide lending market-share gain opportunities” for Wells
Fargo, wrote George, who rates the firm “outperform” and
predicts the shares will reach $38 apiece within a year.  Alan Elias, a Wells Fargo spokesman, declined to comment.  Wells Fargo declined 1 percent to $25.61 in  New York  and
has dropped 17 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  