-- Wholesale Prices in U.S. Rose in November
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-12-15T13:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-increase-less-than-estimated-excluding-food-fuel.html
Prices paid to U.S. wholesalers
excluding food and fuel rose less than forecast in November,
indicating inflation will remain contained.  The so-called  core measure  increased 0.1 percent, less than
the 0.2 percent gain projected by the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. The  producer price index  climbed 0.3
percent, paced by a 1 percent advance in food expenses.  Slowing growth from  Europe  to  Asia  may restrain the cost of
raw materials, while subdued job growth and stagnant wages may
hold down demand in the U.S., giving companies little room to
raise prices. Less inflation would validate Federal Reserve
policy makers in their renewed pledge this week to hold rates
“exceptionally low” at least through mid-2013.  “We are seeing some cooling in inflation,” said  Julia
Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas in
New York, who correctly forecast the gain in  core inflation .
“We’ve seen some leveling off in energy prices and that means
less inflationary pressures in the pipeline.”  The number of  applications  for  unemployment benefits 
unexpectedly dropped last week to a three-year low, an
indication the labor market is healing, other figures from the
Labor Department today showed. Jobless claims dropped by 19,000
to 366,000 in the week ended Dec. 10, the fewest since May 2008.  New York Manufacturing  Manufacturing in the New York region expanded more than
forecast in December to the highest level in seven months as
measures of employment and new orders improved, another report
showed. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index rose to 9.5 from 0.6 in November.  Stock-index futures added to earlier gains after the
reports. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
maturing in March rose 1.1 percent to 1,220 at 8:53 a.m. in  New
York .  Treasury securities  fell, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up to 1.93 percent from 1.90 percent late
yesterday.  The median estimate of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected producer prices would rise 0.2 percent. Forecasts
ranged from a decline of 0.3 percent to an increase of 0.6
percent.  Compared with November 2010, companies paid 5.7 percent
more for goods, the smallest year-to-year increase since March.
Core prices rose 2.9 percent in the 12 months ended in November.  The increase in food costs was led by a 12 percent jump in
vegetables and an 8 percent gain in chickens.  Energy Prices  Wholesale energy costs climbed 0.1 percent, as higher
prices for home heating oil and diesel fuel were offset by
declines in natural gas and gasoline.  Fuel costs may fall this month. The price of crude traded
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  has dropped from a closing
high of $101.28 on Dec. 6 to $94.94 yesterday as the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries raised its
production ceiling.  Expenses for intermediate goods increased 0.2 percent
following a 1.1 percent drop in October. Prices of crude goods,
or raw materials that require further processing, rose 3.8
percent in November after falling 2.5 percent a month earlier.  “Inflation has moderated since earlier in the year, and
longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable”
Federal Reserve policy makers said in a Dec. 13 statement after
their most recent monetary policy meeting. The policy making
committee “also anticipates that inflation will settle, over
coming quarters, at levels at or below those consistent with the
committee’s dual mandate” of maintaining low inflation and
boosting employment.  Falling Costs  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO) , a Pittsburgh-based clothing
retailer, is among companies projecting that costs will fall
after cotton prices soared earlier this year.  “Strong sales growth enabled us to overcome significant
pressure from higher cotton costs,” James O’Donnell, chief
executive officer of American Eagle, said on a Nov. 30
conference call. “However, we do expect to benefit from lower
cotton costs beginning in the second half of 2012.”  A strengthening of the  U.S. dollar  over the last three
months may make foreign goods cheaper in the U.S. Since Aug. 31,
the Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to
track the currency against that of six major trade partners, has
gained about 8.7 percent after falling 11 percent in the year
ended Aug. 31.  Fed’s Gauge  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.1 percent in October after no change the prior
month. Fed policy makers aim for long-run overall inflation of
1.7 percent to 2 percent, according to their Nov. 2 forecast.  Policy makers this week reiterated their pledge to hold the
benchmark  interest rate  near zero at least through the middle of
2013 so long as joblessness stays high and the inflation outlook
is “subdued.”  Today’s report was the second on prices this week. Import
prices rose 0.7 percent last month, the Labor Department
reported yesterday. The  consumer price index  probably climbed
0.1 percent last month, economists forecast the Labor Department
will report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  