-- WTO Seals $100 Billion Deal Expanding Government Procurement
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2011-12-15T15:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/wto-reaches-deal-expanding-government-procurement-contracts-1-.html
After more than a decade of
negotiations, the  World Trade Organization  clinched a landmark
agreement that opens up government-procurement contracts worth
as much as $100 billion to more foreign competition.  The revised  Government Procurement Agreement , approved
today in Geneva hours before the WTO began its eighth
ministerial meeting, covers 42 of the trade arbiter’s 153
members. China, which submitted a revised offer in November,
won’t join the agreement this year.  “Even in a very difficult and deteriorating macro-economic
environment, with a bit of will, plus goodwill and hard work,
things can get done,” WTO Director-General  Pascal Lamy  told a
news conference.  Government procurement in most countries accounts for
between 15 percent and 20 percent of gross domestic product, the
WTO said. It’s worth 17 percent of GDP, or almost 2.1 trillion
euros ($2.7 trillion) in the European Union and about 30 percent
of output, or $348 billion in 2008, in  India .  The agreement expands coverage of procurement to include a
number of central and sub-central entities not previously
included in the GPA and modernizes the text to reflect current
practices in procurement. The deal means  Europe  will increase
its market share in  Japan  by 20 percent, particularly in
construction, and it adds about 2 billion euros in terms of
access to  Korea ’s railways,  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-
services chief, told journalists in Geneva.  More Needed  U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  urged China, which began
discussions to join the agreement about four years ago, to make
an offer that matches the benefits given by other members of the
WTO.  “China has submitted three offers, each an improvement
over the last,” Kirk said in a statement. “But  China  still has
some distance to go.”  The U.S., which only committed 37 of its 50 states to the
procurement agreement, wants China to include state-owned
enterprises, add more sub-central entities and services, reduce
its thresholds for the size of covered contracts and remove what
Kirk called other “broad exclusions.”  Adding China -- which along with Jordan is in an advanced
stage of negotiations -- to the GPA would more than double the
value of the accord, Lamy said. Another seven countries,
including Albania, Oman, Panama and Ukraine, are also interested
in joining the deal, he said.  Reciprocity  The latest Chinese offer, submitted on Nov. 30, covers both
central government and sub-central government entities and “was
appreciated by many GPA parties,” said Yi Xiaozhun, China’s
ambassador to the WTO. “But we know that we will continue the
negotiation on GPA.”  China may ultimately decide not to join the agreement “if
we find out that we cannot get reciprocity from GPA members,”
Yi said in a Dec. 7 interview. “We have to negotiate with them
and evaluate if we can get a fair return. That’s a tough
negotiation. If they want us to bring in sub-central government
entities, then they have to do the same.”  China has “consistently delivered what they said they
would deliver,” said Swiss negotiator Nicholas Niggli, who led
the government-procurement negotiations. “They know they need
to do more. It is a long road.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  