-- Yahoo May Win Case Over U.K. Soccer Data, EU Court Aide Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2011-12-15T16:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/yahoo-may-win-case-over-u-k-soccer-data-eu-court-aide-says-1-.html
Yahoo! Inc . may win a bid to access
annual schedules of the English and Scottish soccer leagues, an
adviser at the European Union’s highest court said.  Soccer leagues can’t claim copyright protection for match
schedules, Paolo Mengozzi of the EU Court of Justice said in a
non-binding opinion today. The creation of soccer fixture lists
is a “data creation activity” and not an “original
intellectual creation.” The Luxembourg-based EU court follows
this advice in a majority of cases.  “The effort expended in the creation of the data cannot be
taken into consideration for the purposes of assessing the
eligibility for protection of the database as such,” Mengozzi
said in his opinion. Such a database can be protected by
copyright “only if it is an original intellectual creation of
its author.”  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , and a number of
betting companies who want to access the information, are at
loggerheads with the soccer leagues over whether their lists’
data is protected by copyright. While Yahoo’s U.K. unit argued
the data isn’t protected and can be published without payment,
the English and Scottish leagues said they own the rights to the
data on the annual fixture lists and can charge for its use.  A  London  court in 2010 ruled the data is protected by
copyright under the EU’s database law. The case is now pending
at the Court of Appeal in London, which last year referred the
case to the EU court for guidance.  Binding Ruling  Any ruling by the EU Court of Justice, which usually
follows within six months of the opinion, will be binding.  “We’re pleased that the Advocate General shares our
opinion that there are no intellectual property rights in
football fixtures,” Yahoo said in an e-mailed statement. “This
justifies the strong stance we’ve consistently taken around
proprietary information such as football fixtures being freely
available.”  Football DataCo, which is responsible for the Premier
League and Football League fixture lists, declined to comment.  The case is:  C-604/10 , Football DataCo Limited, Football
Association Premier League Ltd, Football League Limited,
Scottish Premier League Limited, Scottish Football League, PA
Sport UK Limited v. Yahoo UK Limited,  Stan James  (Abingdon)
Limited, Stan James Plc, Enetpulse APS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  