-- Yara to Assess Reported Apache Deal to Acquire 65% of Burrup
-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 2011-12-15T17:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/yara-plans-to-assess-reported-apache-deal-to-buy-65-of-burrup.html
Yara International ASA (YAR) , a Norwegian
shareholder in Burrup Fertilisers Pty, will assess its position
on a deal by Apache Energy to buy 65 percent of the Perth-based
ammonia maker, in an accord reported earlier by  The Australian .  “We’ve received the information independently from the
media reports,” said Bernhard Stormyr, a spokesman for Yara.
“Based on the information we have received we will now do an
overall assessment of our position regarding this transaction.
We don’t know exactly at what time we will reach a conclusion.”  Stormyr was unable to give the source of the information.  Apache Energy agreed with  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  to pay $560 million for the stake, The Australian
reported today, citing unidentified people close to the accord.  The deal may be halted by Indian businessman Pankaj Oswal’s
wife, who’s asking the courts to block a sale of her 35 percent,
or trumped by Oslo-based Yara, which must decide by February
whether to exercise a right to buy 100 percent, it reported.  Receivers’ hopes of raising more than $1 billion have been
dashed by legal wrangling and uncertainty over whether Burrup
would retain access to cheap gas, the newspaper said.  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES)  expressed interest in buying the stake for
almost $800 million last year before being rejected by ANZ, and
Yara offered “slightly” less, according to The Australian.
Apache supplies Burrup with natural gas, it said.  A new gas supply accord means Burrup pays higher prices
than those agreed with Apache, Tap Oil Ltd. and  Kuwait ’s Kufpec
in 2002, it reported, adding Yara refused to endorse the deal.
Receivers PPB Advisory and ANZ declined to comment, it said.  “The matter is before the courts,” Bill Mintz, a
spokesman for Houston-based Apache, said today in a telephone
interview, declining to comment further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  