-- Zennstrom Said to Plan Skype-Like Wireless With FreedomPop
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2011-12-15T23:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/zennstrom-said-to-plan-skype-like-free-wireless-technology-with-freedompop.html
Niklas Zennstrom , co-founder of
 Skype  Technologies SA, is backing a startup called FreedomPop
that plans to offer free basic wireless service for laptops and
smartphones, according to two people familiar with the matter.  FreedomPop is already testing the service with select U.S.
users and plans to introduce it next year, said the people, who
wouldn’t be identified because the plans aren’t public.
Customers will get a certain amount of wireless Web access for
free and pay for additional services, the people said. About 10
percent of users may eventually pay fees, one person said.  The effort may present a challenge for companies such as
 Boingo Wireless Inc. , which sells Web access through Wi-Fi
hotpots, and other telecommunications companies, which have
relied on wireless growth to bolster revenue as traditional
phone-service sales slide. U.S. wireless revenue totals about
$165 billion, according to the trade group  CTIA-The Wireless
Association .  FreedomPop, based in  Los Angeles , is the latest effort from
a serial entrepreneur. Zennstrom, who is Swedish, co-founded
Skype with Janus Friis and later sold the company to EBay Inc.
for an eventual $3.1 billion. The two also started the music-
sharing website Kazaa and last year opened an online music
subscription service called Rdio. Zennstrom is an investor and
adviser for FreedomPop, not an executive, the people said.  “He certainly has cachet,”  Will Stofega , program director
at consultant IDC, said in an interview. “He is considered an
innovator and a visionary. He has insights and connections. It
gives them entry in with other people in the industry.”  Right, Not Privilege  Zennstrom hasn’t discussed FreedomPop’s business plan
publicly. His involvement was disclosed last week as the company
announced a partnership with LightSquared Inc., which is
building a U.S. wireless network.  “The Internet is a right, not a privilege,” Matt Ingrid,
the company’s chief operating officer, said in a statement at
the time. “With the economic efficiencies delivered by
LightSquared’s wholesale business model, we can achieve our
objective to deliver flexible high-speed wireless access to
anyone at a fraction of the cost and inconvenience seen in
today’s market.”  Tony Miller, a spokesman for FreedomPop, declined to
discuss the company’s planned services in detail and said it
would refine its business model in early next year.  LightSquared plans to charge wholesale customers such as
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and Best Buy Co. about $7 a gigabyte for the
high-speed  Internet service , CEO Sanjiv Ahuja said in an
interview last week. That will allow partners to offer a range
of services at lower costs than they do now, he said.  Keeping Costs Low  With his latest venture, Zennstrom aims to shake up the
communications industry the same way he did with Skype, which
began by letting people make calls between PCs for free, the
people said. Skype and other services that use what’s known as
 Internet Protocol , or IP, technology have helped push down the
cost of telephone calls, particularly international calls.  Skype applications are now available for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone and devices that run Google Inc.’s Android. The apps
allow customers to call other Skype users for free, though they
pay for calls to landline and wireless phones without Skype.
Mobile-phone users pay for wireless-data plans to use Skype.  Unlike Skype, which makes calls free, FreedomPop is aimed
at making access to the Internet over wireless free, the people
said. With LightSquared or another wireless partner, the
company’s service is supposed to be available more widely than
the Wi-Fi hotspots of Boingo in many airports or those sometimes
offered for free by municipalities. FreedomPop users will have
to pay if they want more than certain amount of monthly data,
the people said.  Low Costs  Wireless data services account for an increasing share of
the wireless industry revenue. Annual wireless-data revenue was
about $55 billion, or 34 percent, of all wireless revenue as of
June, up from 10 percent in 2006, according to the CTIA.  FreedomPop aims to keep internal costs low so it can offer
free or low-cost services, one person familiar with the matter
said. The company plans to provide customer care online and keep
staff to a minimum, the person said.  One way FreedomPop may offer its service is with a dongle,
or small piece of hardware, that could plug into a laptop or
smartphone, the person said. The device will act as a modem to
communicate with the wireless network of LightSquared or another
partner, the person said.  FreedomPop plans to distribute the devices through
retailers, who may require a deposit of about $49, the person
said. The deposit will be returned to customers who cancel the
service and return the hardware.  FreedomPop plans to offer wireless Web access for laptops
and smartphones first and may later add voice services, said
another person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  