-- Zentner Says ‘Lehman’ Event in Could Cause Slump
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c K e e
-- 2011-12-15T20:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/zenter-says-lehman-like-event-in-europe-could-spur-u-s-slump.html
(Corrects name spelling in headline, second paragraph.)  The failure of a major bank in
 Europe  could set off a chain of events that pushes the U.S. into
a recession, said Ellen Zentner, a senior economist at Nomura
Securities International Inc. in  New York .  “A Lehman-like event in Europe would cause a gross
domestic product drop between 5 and 6 percent” on the
continent, Zentner said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg on
the Economy” with Sara Eisen and  Michael McKee . “That is
enough to push the U.S. into recession.”  European officials are struggling to contain a surge in
bond yields that threatens the survival of the common currency.
 Christine Lagarde , the managing director of the  International
Monetary Fund , said today that the region’s debt crisis is
escalating to the point that it will not be solved by one group
of countries.  Turning to the  U.S. economy , Zentner said an unexpected
decline in first-time claims for jobless benefits reported today
by the Labor Department may prompt economists to boost their
forecasts for payrolls growth in December.  The number of applications for unemployment  payments 
dropped by 19,000 to 366,000 in the week ended Dec. 10, less
than the lowest forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News and the least since May 2008. Other data showed
manufacturing accelerated this month after pausing in November.  A failure by lawmakers to extend payroll-tax cuts would
reduce U.S. gross domestic product next year, Zentner said.
Growth can be “pared back by a full percent in terms of GDP,”
she said. “It makes a big difference when the economy is only
growing 2 percent,” the annual pace of expansion in the third
quarter.  Senate Leaders  U.S. Senate leaders in both parties say they are optimistic
that they can resolve the remaining differences over a payroll
tax-cut extension and a broad $1 trillion spending bill funding
most federal agencies, two issues that are stalling completion
of congressional work for the year  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
today his office and Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman
Daniel Inouye, a Hawaii Democrat, are “pretty clear” about a
handful of remaining issues in the spending measure. He said he
and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  are closer to
agreement on areas of dispute in the payroll tax cut measure,
and the congressional session could end “at a reasonable time
in the next few days.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Mike McKee at 
 mmckee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  