-- Zoll Surges as Defibrillator Vest Keeps Medicare Coverage
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2011-12-15T18:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/zoll-surges-as-defibrillator-vest-keeps-medicare-coverage-1-.html
Zoll Medical Corp. (ZOLL) , a maker of
resuscitation devices, rose the most in 13 years after Medicare
said it will continue to cover the company’s wearable LifeVest
defibrillator.  Zoll climbed 26 percent to $59.10 at 1:29 p.m., after
earlier gaining 36 percent in the biggest intraday increase
since November 1998. Administrators with Medicare, the U.S.
health-care program for the elderly and disabled, withdrew a
proposed change in reimbursement that would have delayed use of
LifeVest, which has been covered since 2005, Chelmsford,
Massachusetts-based Zoll said in a statement.  Sales of LifeVest, a removable device worn by patients at
risk for having their hearts suddenly stop, have more than
doubled to $111 million annually in the past two years, Chief
Financial Officer Ernest Whiton said in a telephone interview.
Delaying reimbursement would have taken away one of its main
markets, the window of time when patients are evaluated or wait
for a permanently implanted defibrillator, he said.  “In medical devices right now, there is truly a lack of
innovative growth companies out there, and Zoll is one of
them,” said Glenn Novarro, an RBC Capital Markets analyst in
 New York . “This is a big part of their growth story. If the
government was going to take away reimbursement, it would really
have reduced the growth profile of the company.”  Shocking the Heart  Defibrillators are used to shock a stopped or erratically
beating heart back into a regular rhythm. Studies have shown
permanent devices don’t help patients in some circumstances,
such as immediately after a heart attack, though they are still
at risk for sudden cardiac arrest. LifeVest is often used for
these patients while they recover from the heart attack.  There should be no lingering damage to LifeVest as a result
of the review, Whiton said. Medicare was re-validating its
policies, and there was no negative information about the
LifeVest, which generated about one-fifth of the company’s 2011
revenue, he said.  “There is no reason any doctor who was prescribing the
product and believed in it would decide they should not use it
because of the draft policy,” he said. “If they had decided
they were not going to cover it during the waiting period, that
would have taken a bite out of our revenue,” he said. “But
there was no negative news on the product.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  