-- Zynga Elaborates on Its IPO Risks After Google’s Eric Schmidt Praises CEO
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2011-12-15T18:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/zynga-says-schmidt-s-pincus-comments-should-be-taken-in-context.html
Zynga Inc.  updated its initial
public offering filing to expand on the risks of losing its
chief executive officer after  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman  Eric Schmidt 
called him a “a fearsome, strong negotiator.”  In a Bloomberg News story on Dec. 12, Schmidt praised the
ability of Zynga CEO  Mark Pincus  to forge deals, saying “he is a
we’re-going-to-make-this-happen-or-else type of person.” Google
is an investor in Zynga, and the remarks prompted the company to
 elaborate  on an existing passage in its filing on the value of
Pincus to the online-games startup.  “Pincus is critical to our vision, strategic direction,
culture, products and technology,” Zynga said in today’s updated
prospectus statement, echoing previous filings. “The loss of
our founder and chief executive officer, even temporarily, or
any other member of senior management would harm our business.”  Zynga, the largest developer of games for Facebook Inc.’s
sites, made the disclosure while preparing to price its IPO
later today. The San Francisco-based company plans to offer as
much as $1 billion of stock, selling 100 million shares for
$8.50 to $10 apiece. That would be the biggest IPO for an
 Internet company  since Google’s debut in 2004.  In the Bloomberg story, Schmidt described a negotiation
between Zynga and Google where Pincus “knew more about the
proposed deal than everyone on the Google side of the table
combined.” The talks led Google to buy a 3 percent stake in
Zynga, the largest developer of social-networking games. Google
plans to sell 1.69 million shares in the offering, reducing its
voting interest to 2.8 percent.  “The statements regarding Mr. Pincus should not be taken
in isolation, but should be read together with the risks and
uncertainties described in this prospectus,” Zynga said today in
the filing. “You should make your  investment decision  only
after reading this entire prospectus carefully.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  San Francisco  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  