-- Zynga Said To Price 100M Shares At $10 In IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2011-12-16T21:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-15/zynga-said-to-price-100-million-shares-at-10-each-in-ipo-top-of-range.html
Zynga Inc. , the largest maker of
games for Facebook, declined in its first day of trading after
raising $1 billion in an initial public offering that gave it a
greater valuation than rival  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS)   The shares, listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol ZNGA, fell 5 percent to $9.50. The developer of games
such as “CityVille,” “FarmVille” and “Mafia Wars” sold 100
million shares for $10 each, the top end of a proposed range.  Zynga gets more than 90 percent of its revenue from  Palo
Alto , California-based Facebook Inc., and faces increasing
competition from Electronic Arts, which bolstered its own online
services by purchasing PopCap Games this year.  Nexon Co. , a
Tokyo-based maker of games for Facebook including “Zombie
Misfits,” slumped 15 percent this week after raising $1.2
billion in an IPO,  Japan ’s biggest this year.  “Zynga was offered at a pretty aggressive price relative
to other game makers in the marketplace,” said  Jack Ablin , who
helps oversee $55 billion as chief investment officer for
Chicago-based Harris  Private Bank . “Anyone that has any
affiliation with social media is getting bought up by an
investing public that wants to be involved. And then reality
hits.”  The offering is the biggest by a U.S. Internet company
since  Google Inc. (GOOG)  raised $1.9 billion in its 2004 IPO, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Growth Potential’  Zynga’s increasing ubiquity and expansion prospects appeal
to investors, according to  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert
W. Baird & Co. in  San Francisco .  “Zynga and its games are becoming consumer brands, and
there is a lot of recognition for growth potential,” he said.  Founded by Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  in 2007,
Zynga doubled sales to $829 million in the first nine months of
2011. The IPO valued Zynga at as much as $7 billion, or 6.8
times revenue in the year through Sept. 30. That’s more than
three times rival Electronic Arts’ price relative to sales over
the same period.  “We’re bigger believers in the future of play and social
gaming than any other company and we wanted to be in a position
that we had the resources to invest more in that future than any
other company,” Pincus said in an interview today.  Electronic Arts, the  Redwood City , California-based maker
of “The Sims” and “Scrabble” for mobile devices, had a
market value of $6.9 billion as of yesterday’s close, or about
1.8 times trailing 12-month sales.  Bigger Float  Zynga planned to offer about 14 percent of its common
stock, according to a regulatory filing. That compares with less
than 10 percent for companies including Groupon Inc.,  LinkedIn
Corp. , and Pandora Media Inc., which made their public debuts
this year. Internet companies have used smaller free floats to
boost initial demand for their stock, pushing the price higher.  Zynga sold all of the shares in the IPO, and plans to use
net proceeds for game development, marketing and general
corporate purposes, according to its filing.  Underwriters have an option to buy an additional 15 million
shares to cover over-allotments, Zynga said in its statement.
That may allow backers including Avalon Ventures, Foundry Group
and Google to trim their stakes, according to the original terms
of the offering. Venture firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers,
Zynga’s biggest shareholder after Pincus, didn’t plan to sell
shares in the IPO.  Groupon, Angie’s List  The market value Zynga sought in its IPO was less than a
$14.1 billion fair-value estimate of the company’s worth as of
August, according to the prospectus. The company settled on a
price range after taking into account recent IPOs that
underperformed, according to a Dec. 10 filing. Morgan Stanley
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. led Zynga’s offering.  Groupon, the Chicago-based provider of online coupons,
raised $805 million in its IPO last month, including the over-
allotment option. The shares, which surged as much as 31 percent
in the first weeks of trading, have since fallen 12 percent from
their high, based on yesterday’s close.  Angie’s List Inc., the Indianapolis-based operator of a
consumer-reviews website, raised $132 million in its IPO last
month, including an over-allotment. The stock surged in its
first day of trading before falling as much as 11 percent below
its offer price.  Both Groupon and Angie’s List are trading above their offer
prices.  ‘Too Rich’  Facebook, operator of the world’s largest social network,
is examining a $10 billion IPO that would value the company at
more than $100 billion, a person with knowledge of the matter
said last month.  Sixty percent of the Internet or social-media companies
that completed U.S. IPOs since 2010 are trading below offer
price, Kevin Pleines, an analyst at Birinyi Associates Inc. in
Westport,  Connecticut , said in a Dec. 13 research note. Buyers
of the shares at their opening trade in the public market have
lost an average of 32 percent, Pleines said.  Zynga “shouldn’t be valued at three times what other
companies in that space are valued at,” said Jeffrey Sica,
chief investment officer of Morristown, New Jersey-based Sica
Wealth Management LLC, which oversees $1 billion. “That’s why
people looked at it as having a potential downside. Investors
found it too rich.”  Zynga was also held back by “overall concern in the
market,” said Sica, who nevertheless advised clients to buy the
Zynga IPO. “An IPO investor can’t be oblivious of the
environment the IPO is coming out in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  