-- Macquarie-Backed MGPA Sees Once-in-Decade Europe Bargains
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-09-17T02:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/macquarie-backed-mgpa-sees-once-in-decade-europe-opportunities.html
MGPA , a  fund manager  controlled by
 Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  managing $11 billion in property assets, is
raising money to invest in European real estate and plans its
first Australian property investment within six months.  “There’s going to be some interesting, once-in-a-decade
opportunities to acquire assets at below replacement cost prices
in markets that have some reasonable prospects for growth” in
 Europe , Executive Chairman James Quille said in a telephone
interview from  Singapore  on Sept. 14. In  Australia , a withdrawal
of lenders from commercial property “has caused a big widening
in spreads between prime and secondary assets.”  Australian banks have cut  outstanding lending  to commercial
property by 15 percent since its 2009 peak,  driven by  an
increase in non-performing loans and the exit of some foreign-
owned lenders, according to the  Reserve Bank  of Australia. In
Europe, the amount of new lending for commercial real estate
fell by about 77 percent from 2007 through 2011, estimates by
CBRE Group Inc. show.  The Singapore-based group -- formerly Macquarie Global
Property Advisors, of which Australia’s biggest investment bank
still owns 56 percent -- last month opened its first Australian
office in Sydney and appointed Hamish MacDonald, its former U.K.
head of acquisitions in  London , to run it, Quille said.  It’s seeking offices and retail properties in cities
including Sydney and Melbourne for its  new open-ended Asia fund 
targeting German institutions, he said. The fund has raised
about 85 million euros ($111 million) and is targeting as much
as 500 million euros in the next three to four years, according
to Quille.  Property ‘Attractive’  “Property is an attractive asset class, particularly in
relation to the very low yields you can earn on other reasonably
safe defensive-type investments,” Stuart Cartledge, Melbourne-
based managing director of Phoenix Portfolios, said in a
telephone interview. “For office, we’re coming from a position
of low vacancies and a strong economy, while supply of retail
space has been pretty light.”  Australian offices recorded net absorption of 73,900 square
meters (795,453 square feet) in the three months ended June 30,
and while tenants will remain “cautious” in the 2013 fiscal
year, supply is “well-managed,” Andrew Ballantyne, Sydney-
based head of capital markets research at broker Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc., said in a release in July.  Vacancy rates across Australian retail properties, which
rose to 3.5 percent as of June 30 from 3.2 percent on Dec. 31,
are expected to stay stable in the second half before declining
in 2013, Andrew Quillfeldt, Sydney-based head of retail
management at Jones Lang, said in a separate July release.  New Funds  While MGPA is also on the lookout for controlling interests
in Australian property companies and mezzanine debt
opportunities, it hasn’t found anything appealing, Quille said.
The group will add staff in Australia as needed, he said.  MGPA is also raising capital for its fourth European fund,
Quille said. It sees value in Germany, the U.K., France and
 Poland  and will invest in both property debt and equity, he
said.  The group plans to begin raising capital for its fourth
Asian fund by the end of 2012, according to Quille. Across  Asia ,
MGPA is focused on  Hong Kong ,  Japan , Australia, Singapore and
China, and watching Malaysia and Indonesia, he said.  MGPA also plans to create funds specifically for Australian
and Japanese investors beyond 2013, Quille said. The investment
destinations for these funds are undecided, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  