-- Adoboli Trial, Eversheds, Jones Day, Goodwin: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/adoboli-trial-eversheds-jones-day-goodwin-business-of-law.html
Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
trader, could have lost the bank as much as $12 billion through
unauthorized, “unhedged investments,” prosecutors said.  “The scale of Mr. Adoboli’s gambling was so large and so
unchecked he could have quite easily approached and even
exceeded the limits of the bank’s resources,” Sasha Wass told
the 12-person jury at the beginning of a London criminal trial
Sept. 14. “One only has to imagine doubling the loss that he
made of $2.3 billion a few more times to see that he was putting
the very existence of the bank at risk.”  Adoboli, 32, exceeded his trading limits and invented
hedges to conceal losses of $2.3 billion from his managers, Wass
said, to increase his bonus and status at the bank. His pay rose
from 40,500 pounds ($65,600) in 2005 to 360,000 pounds,
including bonus, in 2010, she said.  The former trader is charged with falsifying records on
exchange-traded fund transactions and other documents needed for
accounting purposes as early as October 2008. Prosecutors also
charged him with fraud for abusing his senior trader position.  “Adoboli’s motive was to increase his bonus, his status
within the bank, his job prospects and his ego,” Wass said.
Adoboli worked for the Zurich-based investment bank’s Delta One
desk, which handles trades for clients -- or risks the bank’s
own money -- typically by speculating on a basket of securities.
The loss, which came from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX
and EuroStoxx index futures, didn’t affect any client positions,
according to UBS.  When he could no longer hide his losses, Wass said, Adoboli
sent a “bombshell e-mail” one year ago Sept. 14 to William
Steward, a chartered accountant working in UBS’s London back
office. He left the bank’s office at 1:30 p.m., claiming he had
a doctor’s appointment and sent the message an hour later.  He described how he accrued losses during “the aggressive
sell-off in the days of July and early August” as a result of
the “escalation of the euro-zone crisis.” He was called back
to the bank to meet with managers and explain.  “I am deeply sorry to have left this mess for everyone and
to have put my bank and my colleagues at risk,” Adoboli wrote.  In the U.K., fraud charges carry a maximum sentence of 10
years in jail, and seven years for false accounting. Adoboli,
facing two counts of each, has denied the allegations.  Held in Wandsworth prison in southwest London after his
arrest on Sept. 15, Adoboli was granted bail and released June
13. He is staying with a friend in the British capital, his
lawyer has said. As part of his bail conditions, he has a curfew
and has surrendered his Ghanaian passport.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Evershed To Open Office in Beijing in December  Eversheds LLP received a license to practice in Beijing and
will open an office in December, initially headed by Asia
managing partner Nick Seddon.  The office will be the firm’s fourth in the Asia Pacific
region after opening outposts in Shanghai, Singapore and Hong
Kong.  Eversheds expects to add additional senior attorneys who
will provide clients with full corporate legal services and
focus on both inward and outward foreign direct investments.  “Asia has been a strategic market for us and our clients
for many years. The license to practice in Beijing is a big step
in our ongoing growth strategy in Asia and we look forward to
building on the success of our other offices in the region,”
Seddon said in a statement.  Eversheds has 45 offices in 28 countries in Europe, Asia,
the  Middle East  and  Africa .  News  Deferred Prosecutions Boost Compliance, Justice Official Says  Lanny Breuer, chief of the U.S.  Justice Department ’s
criminal division, defended his agency’s increased use of
deferred-prosecution agreements, saying they had “a
transformative effect on particular companies and, more
generally, on corporate culture across the globe.”  The agreements have “become a mainstay of white-collar
criminal  law enforcement ,” Breuer, who was co-chairman of the
white-collar defense and investigations practice group at
Covington & Burling LLP before joining the  Justice Department ,
said in a speech before the New York City Bar Association Sept.
13, according to a copy of his prepared remarks. “The result
has been, unequivocally, far greater accountability for
corporate wrongdoing -- and a sea change in corporate compliance
efforts.”  Before the deferred prosecution emerged as a useful tool in
the 1990s, “prosecutors faced a stark choice when they
encountered a corporation that had engaged in misconduct --
either indict, or walk away,” said Breuer, 54.  Avoiding indictment doesn’t mean a company escapes
accountability, he said. Companies also must prove they are
“serious about compliance,” if they want to avoid pleading
guilty or having charges brought.  The agreements give prosecutors flexibility when
differentiating between the actions of a “rogue employee and a
rotten corporation,” he said.  For more, click here.  Rothstein Firm Lawyer Lippman Gets Three Years in Prison  Steven Lippman, a former attorney in the law firm of
convicted Ponzi schemer Scott Rothstein who admitted helping the
firm make illegal campaign contributions, was sentenced to three
years in prison.  Lippman, 50, pleaded guilty in May to conspiracy to violate
banking, election and tax laws. He said he helped Rothstein’s
now-defunct law firm, Rothstein, Rosenfeldt & Adler, illegally
“bundle” contributions to Republican  John McCain ’s losing
campaign in 2008 against President  Barack Obama . The firm was
the largest contributor to McCain’s campaign.  Lippman also was fined $15,000 Sept. 14 in federal court in
Fort Lauderdale,  Florida , and ordered to pay $179,000 in
restitution. He told U.S. District Judge James I. Cohn that he
was “horrified” by his actions. He said he was taken in by the
charms of Rothstein, who is serving 50 years in prison for
running a $1.2 billion  Ponzi scheme .  “The first mistake I made was an error in judgment
regarding Scott Rothstein,” Lippman said. “I not only failed
to ask the right questions, I agreed to do things that were
wrong. Yes, he played me like a fool, but at the end of the day,
I should have said no. That’s my fault.”  Cohn said he wasn’t swayed by letters that friends and
family members wrote on Lippman’s behalf, or by the three people
who testified for him. He said he gave Lippman some credit for
amending four years of tax returns to show income that he had
not initially reported to the  Internal Revenue Service . Lippman
changed the returns before he was charged criminally.  “Without question Mr. Lippman is an accomplished lawyer,”
Cohn said. “He has a strong work ethic. He’s a good family man,
and he’s helped a lot of people. But, also without question, Mr.
Lippman is a very intelligent man. As such, he knew the legal
requirements.”  The length of the sentence was less than the government
asked for and more than the defense sought.  Lippman’s attorney, Bruce Zimet, sought a sentence of no
more than 18 months. He said Rothstein conned Lippman into
moving money through his bank account and making illegal
campaign donations.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Lawrence LaVecchio questioned how
such an accomplished attorney could have been conned so easily.  “In the first half of this hearing we hear that he’s a
brilliant attorney,” he said. “In the second half of the
hearing, I hear he’s a veritable idiot who is easily manipulated
into committing these acts.”  Rothstein pleaded guilty in 2010 to racketeering,  money
laundering  and  wire fraud .  The case is U.S. v. Lippman, 12-cr-60078, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For more, click here.  Deals  Norton Rose Advises RBC on $2.5 Billion Five-Year Covered Bonds  Norton Rose Canada LLP  advised Royal Bank of Canada, the
nation’s largest lender, in their sale of $2.5 billion of five-
year covered bonds. The deal was the first-ever issue of covered
bonds registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, the firm said in a statement.  Senior partner Andrew Fleming and partner Eric Reither,
assisted in-house counsel Erin Dion and Joseph Hillier in
advising the bank. The Norton Rose team also includes partners
Peter Noble on corporate finance and securities and Adrienne
Oliver on tax.  The 1.2 percent notes priced to yield 51.3 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Covered bonds are typically backed by mortgages or public-
sector loans. The collateral underlying the debt remains with
the borrower, which also guarantees the bonds.  RBC issued $1.5 billion of covered debt in April 2010,
selling 3.125 percent, five-year securities to yield 30 basis
points more than mid-swaps, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , RBC and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
managed the sale for Toronto-based RBC, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  For more, click here.  FirstMerit Agrees to Buy Citizens Republic for $952 Million  Jones Day  LLP is advising  FirstMerit Corp. (FMER) , the Akron,
Ohio-based lender, who agreed to acquire  Citizens Republic
Bancorp Inc. (CRBC)  for about $952 million in stock to expand into
Michigan and Wisconsin.  Dykema Gossett PLLC (RY)  is representing
Citizens Republic. Sullivan & Cromwell LLP represents J.P.
Morgan Securities LLC in its capacity as financial adviser to
Citizens Republic.  The Jones Day deal team was led by Cleveland mergers and
acquisitions partners Lyle Ganske and Peter Izanec.  Dykema’s attorneys included members: Rex E. Schlaybaugh,
Jr., D. Richard McDonald, Mark A. Metz, Margaret Adams Hunter,
and Steven E. Grob.  The S&C New York-based team includes financial institutions
mergers and acquisitions partner Mitchell Eitel and senior
chairman H. Rodgin Cohen.  Citizens’ investors will receive 1.37 shares of FirstMerit
common stock in exchange for each of their shares, the banks
said Sept. 13 in a statement. The deal values Citizens 18
percent higher than the Sept. 12 closing price, or about $23.51
per share.  FirstMerit expects to repay Flint, Michigan-based
Citizens’s $345 million of Troubled Asset Relief Program
preferred stock, including $45 million of deferred dividends.
The move helps FirstMerit expand into Wisconsin and Michigan and
strengthens its presence in northeast Ohio, according to the
statement. The deal is almost twice the price of FirstMerit’s
second-largest acquisition, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  FirstMerit, run by Chief Executive Officer Paul Greig, will
have $24 billion in assets, $15 billion in loans and $19 billion
in deposits after the transaction, according to the statement.  The deal, which is expected to be completed in the second
quarter of 2013, will be 7.5 percent accretive to FirstMerit
earnings in 2014, the bank said. FirstMerit will appoint two
Citizens directors to its board.  For more, click here.  Moves  Goodwin Procter Hires Assistant to the Solicitor General  William M. Jay, former Assistant to the Solicitor General,
has joined Goodwin Procter LLP’s litigation department in
Washington as a partner in the appellate litigation practice.  Jay has argued 11 cases in the  Supreme Court  and briefed 20
cases on the merits and more than 150 cases at the certiorari
stage, the firm said. At Goodwin, he will focus on representing
clients in appeals before federal and state appellate courts and
the U.S. Supreme Court, as well as advising trial court level
clients on an appellate perspective.  He was U.S. Supreme Court Justice  Antonin Scalia ’s law
clerk to from 2004-2005. After that, he worked as special
counsel to the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary during its
consideration of Chief Justice Roberts’ nomination.  Goodwin Procter’s has lawyers in nine offices in the U.S.,
Hong Kong, and London.  Two Regulatory Partners Join Haynes and Boone in New York  Haynes and Boone LLP has added two lateral partners, Daren
Domina and Madelyn Calabrese, to the investment funds and
private equity practice group in New York. Both were previously
at Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP.  Both Domina and Calabrese advise broker-dealers and
registered and unregistered investment advisers on a range of
registration, regulatory, compliance and inspection/enforcement
matters, including regulatory issues relating to private
investment funds.  Haynes and Boone has more than 525 attorneys with offices
in Texas, New York, California, Washington, Mexico City and
Moscow.  Nelson Mullins Hires Health-Care Partner in Raleigh  Health-care attorney Sean A. Timmons has joined Nelson
Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP’s health-care practice group and
is based in the Raleigh,  North Carolina , office. He was
previously at Smith, Anderson, Blount, Dorsett, Mitchell &
Jernigan LLP.  Timmons assists clients with corporate transactions between
and among health-care providers, including assisting with joint
ventures, advising health-care providers and entities on
acquisition transactions and on the formation of business
entities and medical practice buyins and buyouts.  Nelson Mullins has more than 430 attorneys and government
relations professionals with 13 U.S. offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  