-- Adoboli Was in Debt, Had Spread-Bet Accounts: Prosecutor
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-09-17T16:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/adoboli-was-in-debt-had-spread-bet-accounts-prosecutor.html
Kweku Adoboli, the former trader on
trial for allegedly costing  UBS AG (UBSN)  $2.3 billion from
unauthorized trades, was in debt and had several spread-betting
accounts in violation of the bank’s rules, a prosecutor said.  The bank’s compliance department notified Adoboli, 32, that
he should have flagged his personal trading through the spread-
betting firms IG Index Plc and City Index Ltd. to UBS
beforehand, prosecutor  Esther Schutzer-Weissmann  said at his
trial in  London  today.  Adoboli’s personal bank accounts were mostly overdrawn and
he had borrowed money from various short-term lenders, she said.
At UBS, his pay rose from 40,500 pounds ($65,900) in 2005 to
360,000 pounds in 2010, including bonus, another prosecutor said
at the opening day of his trial last week. He lost 123,000
pounds through his personal trading with IG Index in the year
leading up to his arrest, Schutzer-Weissmann said today.
Adoboli’s lawyers agreed not to challenge the information
provided by the prosecutor.  By October 2010, Adoboli’s monthly salary payments into his
primary checking account were 6,179.69 pounds. Turnover on the
account in the 12 months leading up to September last year was
233,000 pounds. On the day he was arrested on Sept. 15 last
year, the account was overdrawn by 3,594.70 pounds, according to
the agreed facts. He had borrowed from at least eight short-term
lenders.  Falsifying Records  The former trader is charged with falsifying records on
exchange-traded fund transactions and other documents needed for
accounting purposes as early as October 2008. Prosecutors also
charged him with fraud for abusing his senior trader position.
His trial, at a London criminal court, is scheduled to last
eight weeks.  Lawyers at the firm Bark & Co. said in a statement on their
website that Adoboli “is keen to proceed with the evidence and
ensure that his own account is put forward,” which will give
the jury a chance “to consider a radically different and
compelling version of both his trading and the way he was
managed.”  Adoboli was arrested by the  City of London  Police last year
after he confessed in an e-mail to a UBS accountant to accruing
losses during “the aggressive sell-off in the days of July and
early August” as a result of the “escalation of the euro-zone
crisis,” prosecutors said at the trial last week.  German Futures  The former trader apologized and admitted he’d risked $5
billion on Standard and Poor’s 500 futures and a further $3.75
billion in the German futures market, another prosecutor, Sasha
Wass, said in her opening arguments.  Three of Adoboli’s four personal bank accounts were
overdrawn at the time of his arrest. The fourth had less than 4
pounds in it, Schutzer-Weissmann said.  UBS’s compliance team sent him a violation notice for
failing to disclose his IG Index account in April 2011, just
over a year after he had opened it. He opened the City Index
account in March that year, which he also didn’t disclose to
UBS. The bank changed its policy in May 2011 to prohibit spread-
betting on financial instruments.  Adoboli worked for the Zurich-based investment bank’s Delta
One desk, which handles trades for clients -- or risks the
bank’s own money -- typically by speculating on a basket of
securities. The loss UBS attributes to him came from trading in
Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX and EuroStoxx index futures.  Adoboli was born in  Ghana  to a former United Nations
official and attended a Quaker boarding school in West
Yorkshire,  England , until 1998. He graduated with honors from
the University of Nottingham in July 2003 with a degree in e-
commerce and digital business. Photography, cycling and wine are
among his interests, according to his LinkedIn profile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  