-- Madoff, Kodak, Journal Register, Lehman, H&M: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-09-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/madoff-kodak-journal-register-lehman-h-m-bankruptcy.html
Three senior noteholders of K-V
Pharmaceutical Co. have the power to control the direction of
the Chapter 11 reorganization that began on Aug. 4 in  New York .  Silver Point Capital LP, Whitebox Advisors LLC and Pioneer
Investment Management Inc. among themselves own $152 million of
the $225 million in senior secured notes, according to a court
filing by their lawyers on Sept. 14.  Approval of a reorganization plan will require that two-
thirds in amount of senior noteholders vote “yes.” The three
investors by themselves have 67.6 percent of the debt, or enough
to assure that the class accepts a plan assuming half of holders
by number agree.  The three investors also own $8.9 million of the
convertible subordinated notes, the court filing said. The three
noteholders previously had said they held at least a majority of
the senior notes.  K-V is a St. Louis-based provider of branded
pharmaceuticals. It listed assets of $236.6 million against debt
totaling $728 million. It ceased manufacturing and distributing
nearly all drugs in January 2009 after discovery that some
tablets were oversized. The company’s main business now is the
sale of Makena, a drug reducing the risk of premature birth.  Liabilities include $455.6 million in long-term debt
including $225 million on the senior secured notes due 2015. The
first-lien notes traded on Aug. 8 for 31 cents on the dollar, a
36 percent decline since July 11, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  There is $200 million owing on 2.5 percent contingent
convertible subordinated notes due 2033. The notes traded on
Aug. 29 for 1.9 cents on the dollar, a 47 percent decline since
Aug. 13, Trace said. K-V owes $30 million on a mortgage loan.  Hologic Inc. sold the Makena business to K-V in 2008 and is
owed $95 million plus royalties. Hologic has a lien on the right
to distribute the product.  The case is In re K-V Discovery Solutions Inc., 12-13346,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Updates  Kodak Says It May Retain Technology Rather Than Sell  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  won’t be selling digital imaging
technology this month. The company said in a Sept. 14 court
filing that it’s “exploring alternatives,” including retention
of the patents to generate licensing revenue for payment of
creditor claims.  The company told creditors in the filing that “it may not
reach acceptable terms with parties via the auction process.”  The  bankruptcy court  in New York had approved sale
procedures that were to have culminated in an Aug. 20 hearing to
approve sale. Rather than conduct an open auction on a specified
day with bids submitted one after another, Kodak believed the
price would be higher by requiring the submission of bids and
negotiating privately with potential purchasers until arriving
at the highest bid in consultation with creditors.  Kodak pushed back the sale-approval hearing three times,
most recently to Sept. 19. If an acceptable offer is found,
Kodak said it will file a new set of papers in bankruptcy court
setting up a hearing to approve sale.  For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Kodak’s $400 million in 7 percent convertible notes due in
2017, which sold for 21.055 cents on the dollar on Aug. 9,
traded at 10:34 a.m. on Sept. 14 for 13.5 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The price decline
occurred after Kodak announced the first postponement of the
technology sale.  Based in Rochester, New York, Kodak filed for Chapter 11
reorganization in January, listing $5.1 billion in assets and
$6.75 billion in debt. Liabilities for borrowed money, totaling
$1.6 billion, included $100 million on a first-lien revolving
credit and $96 million in outstanding letters of credit.  Other liabilities include $750 million in second-lien
notes, $406.1 million in convertible notes, and $252.4 million
in senior unsecured notes. Trade debt was $425 million.  Kodak’s Chapter 11 case is In re Eastman Kodak Co.,
12-10202, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Madoff Trustee Trying to Persuade Rakoff to Change His Mind  The trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC filed a 39-page brief seeking to persuade U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff not to dismiss another 16 lawsuits on
grounds where Rakoff previously ruled that suits don’t hold
water.  In a suit against HSBC Holdings Plc, Rakoff ruled last year
that Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  can’t bring cases based on
common law in the face of a defense known as in pari delicto
rule. Rakoff also ruled that the federal Securities Litigation
Uniform Standards Act bars some of the claims Picard filed
against customers who allegedly received stolen property.  The HSBC appeal is pending in the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Manhattan. The briefs have been filed.  Picard’s papers on Sept. 14 argued Rakoff was wrong in his
earlier dismissal of similar suits. The defendants in the suits
will file another brief on Oct. 5. The dispute is scheduled for
hearing in Rakoff’s court on Oct. 15.  Rakoff previously said that the defendants believe it makes
sense to wait for a ruling from the Court of Appeals before
deciding whether to dismiss the additional suits.  Picard has several appeals pending in the Court of Appeals.
Among them, one seeks to revive $10 billion in lawsuits against
635 customers where Rakoff ruled that Picard can sue to recover
stolen money only going back two years before bankruptcy, not
six.  From 1,000 lawsuits Picard filed, Rakoff’s ruling have
meant that the trustee would lose on $11.1 billion in claims
against customers. Rakoff left Picard the ability to sue for
two-year profits totaling about $8 billion.  Despite the adverse rulings, more than $11 billion has been
collected from settlements, recoveries by the trustee, and
forfeitures to the U.S. government. Customer claims aggregate
about $17 billion.  Picard announced last week that customers will be receiving
a distribution of an additional 33.5 percent of their approved
claims on Sept. 21. The new distribution will bring customers’
recovery to 38.1 percent.  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008, with
the appointment of the trustee under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  Bernard Madoff  individually went into an
involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009. His bankruptcy
case was consolidated with the firm’s liquidation. Madoff is
serving a 150-year prison sentence following a guilty plea.  The dispute over common claims is part of Securities
Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, 12-mc-00115, U.S. District Court, Southern
District New York (Manhattan). The Madoff liquidation case is
Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The criminal case is
U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-00213, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  AMR Fees of $48.2 Million Negotiated Down by 3 Percent  At the AMR Corp. hearing in bankruptcy court on Sept. 20,
19 professional firms will be asking the bankruptcy judge in New
York to approve $47 million in fees for four months of work
spanning the period from Nov. 29 when the case began through the
end of March.  The fee examiner appointed by the bankruptcy court reviewed
the fee requests and negotiated 3 percent in reductions from the
combined original requests of $48.2 million. The agreed
reductions total $1.47 million.  The largest fee request of $15.3 million was lodged by Weil
Gotshal & Manges LLP, the airline’s chief lawyers. Weil agreed
to reduce fees by 3.3 percent or $498,000.  AMR, the parent of  American Airlines  Inc., is closing a
call center this month in Tucson,  Arizona . No longer needing the
85,000 square-foot building, AMR signed Freeport-McMoRan Corp.
to buy the facility for $5.1 million. There will be a hearing in
bankruptcy court on Oct. 9 for approval of the sale.  Headquartered at the airport midway between  Dallas  and Fort
Worth, AMR listed assets of $24.7 billion and debt totaling
$29.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
November. American Airlines entered bankruptcy with 600 aircraft
in the mainline fleet and another 300 with American Eagle, the
feeder airline.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  U.S. Trustee Lobbies Against Patriot Equity Committee  Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ)  shareholders aren’t entitled to have an
official committee of their own, the U.S. Trustee told the
bankruptcy judge in advance of a Sept. 24 hearing to decide if
equity can have representatives whose fees would be paid by the
company.  The  Justice Department ’s bankruptcy watchdog recited in her
Sept. 14 papers how shareholders carry a “heavy burden” of
showing a “substantial likelihood” that equity will have a
“meaningful distribution.”  The U.S. Trustee pointed to the July 31 balance sheet where
 shareholders’ equity  was 1.6 percent of book assets. Given that
shareholders’ equity plunged more than $530 million in the first
half of 2012, the U.S. Trustee said the equity holders haven’t
sustained their burden of showing a respectable possibility of
solvency.  The  bond market  implies that Patriot is far short of
solvent. The $200 million in 3.25 percent senior convertible
notes due 2013 traded at 9:49 a.m. on Sept. 14 for 11 cents on
the dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The $250 million
in 8.25 percent senior unsecured notes due 2018 traded on 2:54
p.m. on Sept. 14 for 45 cents on the dollar.  Supporting an argument for solvency, the shareholders said
that Patriot has $1.4 billion in tax loss carryforwards not
carried as an asset on balance sheet. Shareholders seeking a
committee include CompassPoint Partners LP.  The bankruptcy judge in New York may never decide whether
there should be an equity committee. Last week she heard
argument from the U.S. Trustee on a motion to transfer the case
out of New York. The judge said she would issue a ruling later.
If she sends the case away before ruling on the committee
question, the new judge will decide on an equity committee.  Patriot is one of the largest coal producers in the U.S. In
the Chapter 11 filing July 9, Patriot listed assets of $3.569
billion and debt of $3.072 billion as of May 31.  The case is In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-12900, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Pinnacle’s Union-Busting Motions Filed under Seal  Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCLQ) , a feeder airline, began the
process last week of having the bankruptcy court revise
contracts with unions representing pilots and flight attendants.  Both motions are under seal, so the economic basis for the
desire to modify the contracts wasn’t disclosed publicly.
Pinnacle’s brief explaining the legal rationale for modifying
the contracts is also entirely under seal.  When American Airlines Inc. sought court authorization to
modify union contracts, the papers were filed publicly, with
redactions of sensitive information that would be harmful if
known by competitors.  Memphis-based Pinnacle filed for bankruptcy reorganization
in April, listing assets of $1.539 billion against debt totaling
$1.427 billion. At the outset of bankruptcy, Pinnacle was
providing service as Delta Connection, United Express, and US
Airways Express. Pinnacle has the exclusive right to propose a
reorganization plan until Jan. 25.  Secured debt includes $690 million owing to Export
Development Canada and $34 million on a revised loan with an
affiliate of  CIT Group Inc. (CIT)   For nine months ended Sept. 30, there was an $8.8 million
net loss from $938.1 million in operating revenue. Operating
income in the period was $23.1 million. There was $12.8 million
of net income in 2010 on operating revenue of $1.02 billion.  The case is In re Pinnacle Airlines Corp., 12-11343, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  SP Newsprint Sold, Converted to Chapter 7 Liquidation  Newsprint maker  SP Newsprint Holdings LLC  completed the
sale of the business on Sept. 10. The Chapter 11 reorganization
was converted three days later to a liquidation in Chapter 7
where a trustee was appointed.  No outside buyer was willing to compete with secured
lenders in purchasing the business and the bankruptcy judge in
 Delaware  approved a sale to the lenders on Sept. 7 under a
contract with a nominal value of $145 million, composed of some
of the secured debt plus about $30 million cash to pay off
financing for the Chapter 11 case and professional costs.  The case was switched to liquidation because there was no
ability to confirm a Chapter 11 plan.  The sale to the lenders took place while the company was
faced with running out of cash from the loan for the
reorganization begun in November.  When the bankruptcy reorganization began, SP said the
lenders were willing to serve as the stalking horse. Before
bankruptcy, SP owed $41 million on a revolving credit and $213
million on a  term loan  with General Electric Capital Corp. as a
lender and agent.  Based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , SP filed under Chapter 11
with plants in Georgia and Oregon along with 23 recycling
centers in nine states.  The case is In re Holding Liquidating II Holdings LLC,
11-13649, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Clare Oaks Bondholders Recovering 45 Percent under Plan  Clare Oaks , a continuing care community with 317 units and
beds, is on track to emerge from the Chapter 11 reorganization
begun in December under a reorganization plan sponsored by
secured bondholders owed $95.8 million.  An attempt at selling the facility generated an offer of
$16 million which the bondholders found insufficient since it
would have generated only $10 million for them after paying
expenses and the loan financing the bankruptcy.  The bondholders submitted their own plan. The bankruptcy
court in  Chicago  approved the explanatory disclosure statement
last week. A confirmation hearing for approval of the plan is
set for Oct. 25.  Bondholders are settling aside some cash that could pay as
much as 2.7 percent on $1.9 million in unsecured debt.  For a projected 45 percent recovery, bondholders will
receive $40 million in new second-lien bonds that will pay
interest only at 4 percent for 15 years.  Emergence from Chapter 11 will be financed by a $12 million
first-lien secured loan provided by some of the bondholders.  The not-for-profit facility in Bartlett,  Illinois , has 164
independent living units, 17 assisted living units, 16 memory
care units, and 120 skilled nursing beds. The campus is 41
acres.  The Sisters of St. Joseph of the Third Order of St. Francis
developed the project and own the land where it’s situated. The
petition listed assets of $107.2 million against debt totaling
$136.9 million.  The project was financed with $112.7 million in bonds
issued through the Illinois Finance Authority. Construction
began in 2006.  The case is In re Clare Oaks, 11-48903, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Northern District Illinois (Chicago).  Northampton Generating Seeks Fifth Exclusivity Extension  Northampton Generating Co. LP, the owner of a 112-megawatt
electric generating plant in Northampton,  Pennsylvania , has been
receiving extensions of exclusive plan-filing rights in one-
month increments from the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina .  Undeterred, the company filed papers last week for an 11-
week enlargement of so-called exclusivity. If approved by the
judge at an Oct. 9 hearing, the deadline would be pushed out to
Dec. 28. The new exclusivity motion was Northampton’s fifth.  The company again said it’s analyzing options with regard
to a reorganization plan.  Northampton is now a so-called merchant electric generator
as a result of terminating a power-purchase agreement with
Metropolitan Edison Co. It became part of the PJM
Interconnection LLC network. The plant is fueled by waste
products such as waste coal, fiber waste, and tires.  The Charlotte, North Carolina-based company defaulted on
bonds in 2009. Debt includes $73.4 million owing on senior bonds
issued through the Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing
Authority. The Authority also issued junior bonds with $21.8
million outstanding, according to a court filing.  Northampton filed for Chapter 11 protection in December and
later listed asset of $205 million and debt totaling $121.5
million, including $95.4 million in secured debt.  The case is In re Northampton Generating Co. LP, 11-33095,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District North Carolina
(Charlotte).  Podcast & Video  Two Newspapers, Digital Domain, AMR, Rent Control  Newspaper publishers Tribune Co. and Journal Register Co.
are covered in the new bankruptcy video with Bloomberg News
bankruptcy columnist Bill Rochelle and Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia.  In the new podcast, Rochelle talks about  Digital Domain
Media Group Inc. (DDMGQ)  and its effort at selling the business within
10 days of bankruptcy. Rochelle engages in name dropping by
identifying the deep pockets talking about financing a
reorganization plan for AMR Corp., the parent of American
Airlines Inc. The podcast ends with discussion of a new court
opinion that might disincline tenants in rent-controlled and
rent-stabilized apartments in  New York City  from filing
bankruptcy.  To see the video, click here. For the podcast, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 