-- Adolf to Bikinis, Vogue to Met, Vreeland in Documentary
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-09-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/adolf-to-bikinis-vogue-to-met-vreeland-in-documentary.html
When  Jacqueline Kennedy  wanted
advice on what to wear for Inauguration Day, she wrote to Diana Vreeland. When Wallis Simpson needed lingerie for her rendezvous
with King Edward VIII, she turned to the same woman.  “I wasn’t just a fashion editor,” Vreeland famously said
with her trademark immodesty. “I was the one and only fashion
editor.”  Her imprint on 20th-century style is the subject of the
documentary “Diana Vreeland: The Eye Has to Travel.” Due in
theaters on Sept. 21, it was directed by Lisa Immordino
Vreeland, who married Vreeland’s grandson.  The Vogue editor in chief in the 1960s made bikinis
mainstream and  Barbra Streisand ’s nose beautiful. She put the
Costume Institute at the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art on the map.  The film charts Vreeland’s life from her time as an ugly
duckling in Belle Epoque Paris to her role at the center of  New
York  fashion, where she united society swans, fringe artists and
beatniks. It’s based on recorded conversations between Vreeland
and George Plimpton, whom she commissioned to write her memoir,
“D.V.,” in the early 1980s.  The conversations took place in her red living room, which
she wanted to remind visitors of “a garden in hell.” Film
director Joel Schumacher says in the documentary that she
understood “the genius of vulgarity.”  Hitler’s Mustache  One of the film’s more interesting vignettes recounts her
run-in with  Adolf Hitler , whose mustache she thought was
ridiculously funny.  Of her friendship with  Coco Chanel , Vreeland smugly tells
Plimpton, “We were quite close, you know.”  Vreeland called the bikini “the biggest thing since the
atom bomb,” and declared blue jeans the best invention since
the gondola. She was fond of wearing rouge on her ears, and
suggested washing a child’s hair in champagne to keep it blond.  The documentary offers comments from the late Richard Avedon, Angelica Huston, Ali MacGraw and Lauren Hutton, as well
as conversations with designers  Calvin Klein , Hubert de
Givenchy, Anna Sui and Diane von Furstenberg.  Vreeland inspired the character Maggie Prescott, the over-
the-top editor in the 1957 classic “Funny Face.”  Viewers of the documentary will have “The Devil Wears
Prada” deja vu listening to MacGraw, who once worked as
Vreeland’s assistant. The actress tells how Vreeland would bark
orders upon entering a room and throw her coat at her.  Vogue’s current editor and the model for that devil, the
equally formidable  Anna Wintour , is conspicuously absent from
the documentary.  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine,  Jeremy Gerard 
on theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 