-- Aguirre, One-Time Rival to Rajoy, Resigns for Personal Reasons
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-09-17T14:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/aguirre-one-time-rival-to-rajoy-resigns-for-personal-reasons.html
Esperanza Aguirre , a one-time
challenger to Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , resigned as
president of the region of  Madrid , citing personal reasons.  Aguirre, 60, said while she was “allegedly cured” of a
tumor diagnosed last year, the illness had influenced her
decision to stand down and spend more time with her family. Vice
President Ignacio Gonzalez will take over.  “The time has come to give way to younger people,” she
told a televised news conference in Madrid today as she wiped
away tears. “I’ve always said no one is indispensable.”  Aguirre challenged Rajoy’s leadership of the  People’s Party 
after its electoral defeat in 2008, even as she stopped short of
a formal bid. Aguirre has continued to pose challenges to the
premier, pushing him onto the defensive in April when she
offered to hand control over health and education back to the
central government to help tackle the  budget crisis .  Aguirre, who survived a helicopter crash in 2005 and
appeared unharmed in short white socks and high heels after a
bomb attack during a visit to Mumbai, has faced criticism for
cuts in health and education while her proposals to slim
bureaucracy have won popular support. Her plan to cut the number
of regional lawmakers was backed by 77 percent of people
surveyed in a poll by state-run CIS in June. By contrast, 62
percent said Rajoy wasn’t doing enough to reduce burocracy.  Madrid’s Budget  Her record of running one of the tighest budgets of the 17
regions was undermined in May when unpaid bills in her state
helped contribute to a revision in the 2011 national  budget
deficit . Still, Madrid has maintained its access to  capital
markets  into this year. Madrid hasn’t said whether it will join
cash-strapped regions including Catalonia in seeking a bailout
from the central government.  Aguirre, a former culture minister, was also known for
making inappropriate comments when she thought the microphones
were turned off, including obscene language and remarks about
members of her party. While she told reporters her proudest
achievement was introducing bilingual public schools in Madrid,
she was least proud of when she had “put her foot in it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  