-- Air Force Official Slams Lockheed Martin on F-35 Program
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-09-17T22:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/air-force-official-slams-lockheed-martin-on-f-35-program.html
The new deputy head of the
Pentagon’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program said his office’s
relationship with plane manufacturer  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  is
“the worst I’ve ever seen.”  Air Force Major General Christopher Bogdan, on the job five
weeks as deputy program executive officer, fired an unusual
public salvo at the world’s largest defense contractor for what
he described as a poor partnership in managing the Pentagon’s
most expensive weapons program.  “We will not succeed on this program until we get past
that,” Bogdan said in a discussion on the F-35 at the annual
conference of the Air Force Association, a nonprofit civilian
organization that promotes aerospace education. “We have to
find a better place to be in this relationship. We have to.”  “We agree with Major General Bogdan that it takes everyone
to be fully engaged to be successful,” said Michael Rein, a
spokesman for Lockheed’s F-35 program. “We remain committed to
continuing our work to solve program challenges and build on the
momentum and success we’ve achieved during the past couple of
years.”  The $395.7 billion F-35 acquisition program has been
subject to criticism for years for ballooning costs. The $395.7
billion estimate is a 70 percent increase from the $233 billion
projected in late 2001, when development began, after adjusting
for inflation.  ‘No Money’  Bogdan said he has no intention of asking Congress for any
more money for the F-35 beyond what’s already in the pipeline.  “There is no more money and no more time in the
development of this program,” he said. “That is it. We will
not go back and ask for any more.”  Asked what changes he would seek to make, Bogdan said,
“We’ve got to shed our baggage,” while declining to elaborate.  While not offering specifics on the source of the problem
with Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed, Bogdan said, “It should
not take 10 or 11 or 12 months to negotiate a contract with
someone we’ve been doing business with for 11 years.”  Bogdan cited three other concerns with the F-35 program
that he said may cause delays. Calling the plane “a flying
software computer,” he said that software development is behind
schedule and may slip further behind as its complexity
increases.  “Software is a huge risk, and we’ve got to do business a
little differently,” he said.  Helmet Problems  He also cited problems with the helmet worn by F-35 pilots
that he said must be corrected. Testing on the helmet will be
conducted in the next 60 to 90 days, he said.  His office is also considering an alternative helmet made
by  BAE Systems Plc (BAESY)  as a potential “back-up plan,” he said.  He also cited hurdles in the plane’s complex logistical
system that may slow plans to get the aircraft into operation.  While saying he saw “glimmers of hope” in getting the
program under control, Bogdan told reporters later, “if we do
not improve on a day-to-day basis the way we deal with Lockheed
Martin, we’re not going to get there.”  The first four contracts, for 63 jets, exceeded their
combined target cost by $1 billion, according to congressional
auditors.  Bogdan’s unusual public salvo came as the Pentagon is under
growing pressure to cut costs. The Defense Department faces an
additional $500 billion in cuts to future spending over the next
decade unless Congress acts to prevent automatic across-the-
board cuts that are slated to begin in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  