-- Advanced Micro Devices CFO Exits to Seek Other Opportunities
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-09-18T20:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/amd-cfo-resigns-after-three-years-for-other-opportunities-1-.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the
second-largest maker of processors for personal computers, fell
the most in almost two months after the company said Chief
Financial Officer Thomas Seifert is leaving to seek other
opportunities.  Corporate Controller Devinder Kumar was appointed as
interim CFO until a replacement can be found, the Sunnyvale,
California-based company said in a statement yesterday.  Seifert’s resignation, effective Sept. 28, is the latest
disruption at the semiconductor maker, which is struggling to
prevent larger rival  Intel Corp. (INTC)  from taking market share and is
facing slowing demand in the PC market. His departure adds to
growing concern about management’s ability to turn the company
around, saidPatrick Wang, an analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)   “At this point, having the CFO that’s fairly well
respected leaving makes you wonder what else is to come,” said
Wang, who is based in  New York . “It’s increased the risk
profile of the stock.”  Seifert filled in as AMD’s interim chief executive officer
from January to August last year, following the ouster of former
CEO  Dirk Meyer  and until the appointment of Rory Read to lead
the company.  Outlook Cut  AMD  shares  fell 9.7 percent to $3.62 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline since July 20.  The stock has lost a third of its value this year as the
company has lost market share to Intel and sales have  fallen
short  of analysts’ estimates. Under Seifert, who won’t receive
any severance because he resigned, AMD focused on reducing debt
in order to return to profitability.  “Seifert’s departure is not based on any disagreement over
the company’s accounting principles or practices, or financial
statement disclosures,” AMD said in the statement.  A message left with Seifert’s office seeking comment wasn’t
returned.  In July, AMD said third-quarter sales will be down 1
percent, plus or minus 3 percent, from the prior period. At the
low end, that prediction indicated revenue of $1.36 billion in
the third quarter, compared with the average analyst estimate of
$1.41 billion at the time, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The company didn’t update its outlook yesterday.  Seifert joined AMD in 2009 from Qimonda AG, a memory-chip
business that went bankrupt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  