-- American Cuts Capacity Amid Canceled Flights, Sick Pilots
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-09-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/american-cuts-capacity-amid-canceled-flights-sick-pilots.html
American Airlines (AAMRQ)  cut U.S. capacity
by as much as 2 percent for the rest of this month and October
as pilot retirements, sick calls and mechanical issues left the
carrier with more cancellations than any of its U.S.
competitors.  The airline is trimming flight and seating capacity less
than a week after imposing cost cuts on its pilots. The
reductions take effect immediately and will occur “selectively
across our system,”  Bruce Hicks , a spokesman, said in an
interview. American led the U.S. industry in both scrapped
flights and delays yesterday, according to FlightStats.com.  American, a unit of AMR Corp., won bankruptcy court
permission on Sept. 12 to void its existing pilot contract and
impose cost cuts after the workers rejected the carrier’s final
contract offer. Pilots are conducting a strike vote, though they
currently don’t have the legal right to stage a work stoppage.  The  Allied Pilots Association  and its leaders are not
“sanctioning or supporting any job action or slowdown,” said
Tom Hoban, a union spokesman. “It’s illegal to do so. Having
said that, you have 8,000 pilots watching their profession and
livelihood being vaporized by this management team. To say they
are angry would be the understatement of a lifetime.”  The  Fort Worth , Texas-based carrier is reducing capacity
for at least the fourth time in the past 12 months because of a
pilot shortage.  ‘Reliable Service’  “We are constantly evaluating our schedule based on
operational and staffing resources, as well as seasonal demand,
making adjustments when necessary,” Hicks said. “The schedule
adjustments we are implementing will ensure we provide our
customers with reliable service while minimizing any impact to
their travel plans.”  American accounted for 92 of 157 U.S. flight cancellations
yesterday and 414 of 2,092 delays, data on FlightStats’ website
showed. Era Aviation Inc., an Anchorage, Alaska-based carrier,
had the second-most dropped flights at 12, while SkyWest Inc.’s
ExpressJet unit had the second-highest delays with 254,
according to  FlightStats .  “They’re dealing with excessive delays today and they were
throughout the entire weekend,” Keith Gerr, a FlightStats
spokesman, said in an interview yesterday. “They have the
highest cancellations,” he said.  The FlightStats data doesn’t indicate the cause of a
cancellation or delay. Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport,
American’s largest hub, led in both delayed arrivals and
departures.  Union Concessions  The airline earlier won approvals from its other unions for
concessions to help cut annual labor costs by more than $1
billion as it restructures in bankruptcy. American blamed its
November Chapter 11 filing in part on labor costs it said topped
those of rivals by as much as $800 million a year.  Under a federal law governing airline labor, the pilots
unions would have to move through several additional steps
before its members are legally allowed to strike.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  