-- Manufacturing in New York Region Shrinks More Than Forecast
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-09-17T13:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/manufacturing-in-new-york-region-contracts-more-than-forecast.html
Manufacturing in the  New York 
region contracted more than forecast in September as orders
shrank, a sign the world’s largest economy will get less support
from the industry.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  dropped to minus 10.41, the lowest since April 2009, from
minus 5.85 in August. The  median  forecast of 53 economists in a
Bloomberg survey called for minus 2. Readings less than zero
signal contraction in the so-called Empire State Index that
covers New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Factories may slow assembly lines in the face of softening
exports, restrained business investment and cooling household
spending. Unemployment exceeding 8 percent for more than three
years and a weaker economy this year help explain why Fed policy
makers last week boosted record stimulus.  “There’s clearly been a souring of the business climate,”
said  Ken Mayland , chief economist at ClearView Economics LLC in
 Pepper Pike ,  Ohio , who predicted a minus 10 reading for the
Empire index. “We’re not getting the income gains that would
support consumer spending growth. There’s no help from
exports.”  Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from minus 10 to 5.  Stock-index futures held losses after the figures, with the
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in December
declining 0.1 percent to 1,457 at 9:07 a.m. in New York.  The overall index is based on a separate question and does
not reflect changes in areas like orders and employment. For
that reason some economists consider it a measure of sentiment.  The Empire State gauge of new orders decreased to minus 14
this month, the lowest since November 2010, from minus 5.5 the
prior month. A measure of shipments dropped to 2.8 from 4.1.  Weaker Employment  The employment measure fell to 4.3 this month, the weakest
this year, from 16.5 in August.  The index of  prices paid  rose to 19.2 from 16.5 while
prices received increased to 5.3 from 2.4.  At the same time, factory executives in the New York Fed’s
district were more optimistic about the future. The gauge
measuring the outlook six months from now climbed to 27.2 from
15.2.  Manufacturing makes up about 12 percent of the  U.S. economy 
and about 6 percent of New York’s.  Companies concerned about the so-called fiscal cliff of
fiscal policy changes include  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the largest
maker of construction and mining equipment.  “The thing that’s really hanging over us right now is
there is a large tax increase pending here at year-end, and
there are large spending cuts, government spending cuts, looming
at year-end,” Michael DeWalt, director of  investor relations  at
Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar, said in a Sept. 14
conference presentation. “If something is not done about that,
it could be quite negative. So, it’s not a clear picture.”  U.S. Manufacturing  Economists monitor the New York report and Philadelphia Fed
factory readings, due on Sept. 20, for clues about the Institute
for Supply Management figures on U.S. manufacturing during the
month.  Industrial production unexpectedly fell in August by the
most since March 2009, a report from the Fed showed last week.
The 1.2 percent decrease included declines in manufacturing,
mining and utilities.  Consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, is also cooling. Sales at retailers excluding auto
dealers and gasoline service stations rose  0.1 percent  in August
following a 0.8 percent gain in July, Commerce Department
figures showed last week. Overall purchases climbed 0.8 percent.  The Fed on Sept. 13 boosted record stimulus, announcing its
third round of large-scale asset purchases since 2008 and
extending the prospect of near-zero  interest rates  until mid-
2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  