-- Apollo Leads Private-Equity Firms in Gaining CLO Market Share
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-09-17T16:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/apollo-leads-private-equity-firms-in-gaining-clo-market-share.html
Private-equity firms are gaining a
bigger share of the collateralized loan obligation market, with
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  rising to the second spot in the
U.S. after failing to crack the top 10 in 2011, according to
Moody’s Investors Service.  Leon Black ’s New York-based Apollo acquired CLOs managing
about $9 billion in assets since the start of last year, and
raised more than $1.4 billion of such funds in the same period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Apollo gained in the
U.S. for deals backed by widely syndicated loans, landing behind
Dallas-based money manager Highland Capital Management LP,
according to data from Moody’s.  Apollo,  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s GSO Capital Partners LP and
 Carlyle Group LP (CG)  now rank among the 10 biggest CLO managers
after expanding in new areas as takeovers wane. The firms raised
$5.1 billion of new CLOs and acquired managers of the funds in
both the U.S. and  Europe  since the start of last year.  “Private-equity firms keep expanding in the U.S. and
Europe,” Yu Sun, a New York-based senior credit officer in the
structured credit rating team at Moody’s, said in a telephone
interview. “Private-equity shops in the last couple of years
have been growing through acquisition.”  In October Apollo acquired Gulf Stream Asset Management
LLC, which controls 10 CLOs with about $3 billion in loans,
according to an Oct. 24 news release. In April it completed the
acquisition of Stone Tower Capital LLC, which had about $18
billion in assets, according to an April 2 statement.  Apollo Growth  Firms such as Apollo have capital to put into the business
and help it grow, whether organically or by an acquisition, Joe Moroney, who helps run the senior credit business at Apollo in
 New York , said in a telephone interview.  Apollo’s assets under management rose 46 percent to $105
billion as of June 30, from $71.7 billion a year earlier, the
firm said Aug. 2 in regulatory filing announcing second quarter
results.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and returns.  There have been $25.8 billion of CLOs backed by widely
syndicated loans raised in the U.S. this year, the most since
2007, according to Bloomberg and Morgan Stanley data. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. increased its CLO forecast for 2012 by $5 billion to
$35 billion and said there may be $50 billion to $60 billion of
the funds raised next year.  Apollo pushed  CIFC Corp. (DFR) , a New York-based investment firm,
to eighth place this year from second in 2011, according to
Moody’s. Peter Gleysteen, CIFC CEO, didn’t return a telephone
call seeking comment.  Blackstone’s GSO was ranked seventh in the U.S. in 2012,
down from fourth in 2011. Carlyle rose to sixth from seventh in
the same ranking.  PE Advantage  New York-based GSO remains the largest manager globally by
assets with $18.7 billion across 41 funds, according to Moody’s.
Carlyle ranks second with $14.9 billion and Apollo eighth with
$10.4 billion.  “Private-equity firms have the infrastructure, the
financial capital and the human capital to be able to have a
long-term oriented and growth-oriented business model in the
loan and CLO space,” Linda Pace, head of U.S. structured credit
at Carlyle in New York, said in a telephone interview.  Private-equity firms expanded their businesses into credit
as takeovers fell, with announced deals totaling $440.8 billion
in 2011, half of the $878.5 billion peak seen in 2007, Bloomberg
data show.  Diversifying their revenue and profit streams is in part
meant to satisfy public investors in the firms who’ve bought
shares during a handful of private-equity manager IPOs in the
past five years.  “It’s a good compliment for private-equity firms to have a
stable asset management business that produces fee streams that
are predictable,”  Jane Lee , managing director at GSO in New
York, said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  