-- Apple, Kodak, Home Shopping Network:Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-09-17T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/apple-kodak-home-shopping-network-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a round of a U.S.
International Trade Commission case brought by  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  over patented technology in the iPhone and iPad
tablet computer, its second U.S. legal victory in a month over
its largest smartphone competitor.  Apple didn’t violate Samsung’s patent rights, ITC Judge
James Gildea said in a notice posted on the agency’s website.
The judge’s findings are subject to review by the full
commission, which has the power to block imports of products
that infringe U.S. patents.  The judge’s findings follow a federal jury’s ruling in San
Jose,  California , on Aug. 24 awarding Apple more than $1 billion
in damages, after finding that Samsung copies the look and some
features of the iPhone. The California jury rejected claims that
Apple infringed other Samsung patents.  Gildea said there was no infringement of any of the four
patents in the ITC case, and also determined that Samsung had
not proven it had a domestic industry that used the patents, a
requirement that is unique to the trade agency. The judge didn’t
provide the reasons behind his findings. The opinion will be
public after both sides get a chance to redact confidential
information.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, said the company
had no comment.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, has its own ITC
complaint pending against Samsung, and the judge in that case is
scheduled to release his findings Oct. 19. The two companies,
which together make about half the smartphones sold in the
world, are embroiled in more than 30 lawsuits spanning four
continents.  The issue of how to handle patents related to industry
standards has arisen in other cases before the trade agency,
with no clear resolution. Companies that help establish
standards that let various devices work with each other pledge
to license their relevant patents on fair and reasonable terms.  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission, in a filing with the ITC
on other cases, argued that such patents should be treated
differently than other patents, and any dispute over licensing
fees should be resolved in district court.  Most of the patents asserted in the legal battles over
smartphones and tablet computers don’t involve standard-
essential patents.  Samsung’s case against Apple is In the Matter of Electronic
Devices, Including Wireless Communication Devices, 337-794, and
Apple’s case against Samsung is In the Matter of Electronic
Digital Media Devices, 337-796, both U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  Kodak Considering Retaining Patents Put Up for Sale  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , which put patents up for sale at a
bankruptcy auction, is consulting with creditors about retaining
the patents and forming a licensing company.  Kodak has been engaged in “extensive ongoing
negotiations” for a potential sale and licensing transaction,
the company said in a filing Sept. 14 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in  Manhattan .  “The debtors are continuing to explore other alternatives
with respect to the digital imaging patent assets, and their
 intellectual property  more broadly, and may not reach acceptable
terms with parties via the auction process,” Kodak said.  Kodak, based in Rochester,  New York , is selling the patents
to finance a turnaround after filing for bankruptcy in January.
A court hearing scheduled for this week to consider a sale of
the assets was adjourned “until further notice,” Kodak said.  The case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Home Shopping Network Sued Over Fake Solingen Lagasse Knives  IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI) ’s Home Shopping Network was sued for
trademark infringement by the chamber of commerce from Germany’s
Wuppertal-Solingen-Remscheid.  The suit, filed Sept. 11 in federal court in Miami, relates
to the sale of knives through the company’s Home Shopping
Network. The chamber says the knives, which are sold on the Home
Shopping Network under the Emeril Lagasse brand now owned by
 Martha Stewart  Living Omnimedia Inc., falsely are marked as
“Solingen” knives, despite also being marked with the word
“China.”  Only knives made in Solingen are entitled to use that name,
the chamber said in its pleadings. The name is so valued that
Germany has special legislation covering its use, according to
the complaint, and in the past,  U.S. Customs  has seized falsely
marked fakes at the border.  The chamber says the counterfeit Soligen knives sold
through the television program harm the manufacturers of
legitimate products, and the unauthorized use of the mark
weakened the distinctive quality of the brand.  In the court filing, the chamber quoted a consumer
complaint made after a knife promoted by celebrity chef  Emeril
Lagasse  on the Home Shopping Network television program as a
Soligen product showed up as a Chinese fake. The consumer
complained that Lagasse was “a famous chef who cannot be
trusted with what he advertises.”  The chamber seeks a court order barring further
infringement, together with awards of money damages in excess of
$2 million, profits derived from the alleged infringement,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  The Home Shopping Network didn’t respond immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment. Co-defendants with the network are
the company’s supplier,  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO) ,
and both Stewart and Lagasse as individuals.  The case is Chamber of Industry and Commerce Wuppertal-
Soligen-Remscheld v. Stewart, 0:12-cv-61778-KMW, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  Tiger Woods  Seeks to Halt Indian Metals Trader’s Use of His Name  Tiger Woods  is opposing the attempt of a Mumbai-based
metals trader and manufacturer to register his name as a
trademark in India, the Times of India  reported .  Om Agro Chemical filed an application in February 2010 to
register the golfer’s name as a trademark, claiming it came up
with the idea one month earlier, according to the newspaper.  ETW Corp., which handles licensing deals for Woods, hired
Delhi-based  Amand & Amand  to file the opposition with India’s
Registrar of Trademarks, the Times reported.  Woods set up ETW, based on his given name of Eldrick Tont
Woods, as a licensing entity in 1996, according to the Times.  ‘Frank’s Anatra’ Rejected as U.S. Trademark for Hot-Dog Truck  A Michigan hot-dog vendor’s application to register
“Frank’s Anatra” as a trademark for his business was denied by
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s Trademark Trial and
Appeals Board.  In its Sept. 12 ruling, the board said that the name
falsely suggests a connection with  Frank Sinatra , the singer who
died in 1998.  Sinatra has sufficient fame and reputation that the public
would presume a connection to the performer exists if the hot
dog vendor were permitted to use the name, according to the
ruling. The fact that the proposed trademark was sounded similar
to Sinatra name was another reason the board gave for the
rejection.  The applicant Bill Loizon of Birmingham, Michigan, had
argued that “Anatra,” which means “duck” in Italian, wasn’t
chosen as a way of piggybacking onto the singer’s name. The
board wasn’t persuaded, saying that there was “nothing inherent
in the applicant’s mark or his marketing to lead consumers to
translate ‘Anatra’ to duck.”  The board said it couldn’t understand how the name was
chosen for any other reason than to make a “play on the Frank
Sinatra name.”  Loizon also claimed that “antara” was the name of the
“People’s Republic of Antara,” and displayed what he said was
the badge of the nation on the door of his hot dog truck. The
board rejected this, saying Loizon’s explanation for choosing
this name was obscure and that it was “unlikely” that
consumers would understand.”  Loizon was represented by  Jay Schloff  of  Aidenbaum Schloff
& Bloom PLLC  of West Bloomfield, Michigan. Frank Sinatra
Enterprises LLC was represented by  James D. Weinberger  of New
York’s Fross Zelnick Lehrman & Zissu PC.  The case is Frank Sinatra Enterprises v. Loizon, Opposition
No. 91198282 to Application 77947013, U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office Trademark Trial and Appeal Board.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  First French Illegal Downloading Defendant Fined 150 Euros  A French court has ordered a defendant accused of illegal
downloading to pay a fine ordered in that country in Internet
music copyright enforcement efforts, the TorrentFreak website
 reported .  The defendant, who claimed the actual downloading was done
by someone else, was convicted of failing to secure his Internet
connections, according to TorrentFreak, an anti-copyright
website.  Under French law, the owner of the Internet connection is
responsible for unauthorized downloading, regardless of who
actually performed the act, TorrentFreak reported.  Although prosecutors had sought a 300 euro ($394) fine, the
Tribunal de Police de Belfort suspended all but 150 euros,
according to TorrentFreak.  Zynga Countersues Electronic Arts Over Game Similarities  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the biggest developer of games played on
 Facebook Inc. (FB) , countersued  Electronic Arts (EA)  Inc., alleging unfair
competition.  EA, the second-largest U.S. video-game maker, sued Zynga
Aug. 3, claiming Zynga’s “The Ville” video game infringed
copyrights for “The Sims Social,” an EA game that runs on
social-media site Facebook. Zynga filed counterclaims Sept. 14
in federal court in  San Francisco .  “The Sims Social,” released in August 2011, has generated
more than $50 million in revenue and averaged about 3 million
daily users in the past month, Frank Gibeau, president of
Electronic Arts Labels, said on a post-earnings conference call
on July 31.  Zynga, based in San Francisco, said in an Aug. 3 e-mail
that “The Ville” builds on its earlier games and Reggie Davis,
the company’s general counsel, alleged that the recently
released EA game “SimCity Social” had “an uncanny
resemblance” to Zynga’s “CityVille” game.  Zynga has 274 million monthly users on Facebook while
 Redwood City , California-based Electronic Arts has 53 million
players, according to website AppData.  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) ,
maker of “World of Warcraft,” is the largest U.S. video-game
maker.  The case is Electronic Arts v. Zynga, 12-4099, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 