-- Stocks, Spain Bonds Slip as Crops Lead Commodities Lower
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   A m a n d a   G o u l d
-- 2012-09-17T20:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/asia-stocks-rise-to-four-month-high-as-won-gains-copper-drops.html
U.S. benchmark stock indexes fell
from almost five-year highs and Spanish bonds slid after finance
chiefs deadlocked at euro-area debt-crisis talks and  New York 
manufacturing slumped. Oil plunged, extending losses in
commodities and shares of energy producers.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.3 percent to
1,461.19 at 4 p.m. in New York.  China ’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
sank 2.1 percent amid concern the world’s second-largest economy
is slowing and as tensions with  Japan  escalated. The euro
slipped 0.1 percent to $1.3111 after rising more than 0.3
percent earlier.  Spain ’s 10-year yield briefly climbed above 6
percent for the first time in a week and its two-year yield
surged 20 basis points. Corn, soybeans and wheat lost more than
4 percent and oil tumbled 2.4 percent, the most in eight weeks.  EU ministers failed to agree on a timetable for a more
unified banking sector and clashed over terms of bailout
requests and the role of the  European Central Bank  at a meeting
Sept. 14 in Cyprus. A Federal Reserve report showed
manufacturing in the New York region contracted at the fastest
pace since 2009, underscoring concerns about the economy that
prompted the central bank to announce plans to buy mortgage
securities last week.  “There was disappointment in  Europe , the finance ministers
met over the weekend and did not come to an agreement on bank
regulation, which is fairly significant,” John De Clue, the
Minneapolis-based regional investment director at U.S. Bank
Wealth Management, which oversees $80 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “People are waiting and watching now to
see will this Federal Reserve action have the legs of the past
or not. It’s difficult to say.”  Market Movers  The  S&P 500  and  Dow Jones Industrial Average  retreated from
the highest levels since December 2007. The Fed Bank of New
York’s general economic index dropped to minus 10.41, the lowest
since April 2009, from minus 5.85 in August. The median forecast
of economists in a Bloomberg survey called for a minus 2 reading
in the so-called Empire State Index that covers New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Gauges of raw-material, energy and financial companies led
losses among the 10 main groups in the S&P 500 today, dropping
at least 0.8 percent each.  Netflix Inc. fell 5.8 percent today after the world’s
largest video-subscription service was rated underperform in new
coverage at Macquarie Capital USA Inc. Boeing Co. retreated 1.9
percent as Oppenheimer & Co. analyst  Yair Reiner  said the shares
of the world’s largest maker of cargo aircraft may fall, citing
GEnx engine issues after one cracked on a Boeing 787 Dreamliner
during testing on July 28, spewing hot metal parts.  Apple Climbs  Apple Inc. climbed for a fourth straight day, rising 1.2
percent, after pre-orders of its iPhone 5 topped 2 million units
in one day, more than double the sales record set by the
previous model of the device. Because demand for the iPhone 5
exceeds the initial supply, some pre-orders will be delivered to
customers in October, rather than September as previously
planned, Apple said today in a statement.  Two shares fell for every one that advanced in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, which lost 0.3 percent after closing at the
highest level since June 2011 last week.  SSAB (SSABA)  sank 6.9 percent,
the most in seven months, as the Swedish steelmaker said demand
for strip products has been much weaker than expected.  Spanish 10-year bonds declined, with the yield rising as
much as 22 basis points to 6.01 percent before trimming its gain
and trading at 5.97 percent. The nation’s debt agency said it
planned to sell 4.5 billion euros ($5.9 billion) of three- and
10-year debt on Sept. 20. The rate on 10-year Italian debt
increased nine basis points to 5.11 percent. Yields on 10-year
German bunds fell three basis points to 1.67 percent.  ECB Governing Council member Luc Coene said rising bond
yields may force Spain into asking for aid and agreeing to the
ECB’s conditions for granting it. If “markets see that Spain
will not” ask for aid, “then it will not last long before
spreads will rise again, and then Spain will be somewhat forced
to come back on its decision and submit to the conditionality
program,” Coene said at a panel discussion in  London  today.  ‘Ultimate Endgame’  “The euro area finance ministers meeting has come and
gone, and despite the indication of willingness by the ECB to
buy bonds, we are still no closer to what many in the market
consider the ultimate endgame,” said  Brian Barry , an analyst at
Investec Bank Plc in London. “Until we reach a position where
their resolve to contain yields can be tested, yields could
continue to drift higher.”  Swaps, Commodities  The cost of insuring European corporate debt using credit-
default swaps rose from a 13-month low. The Markit iTraxx
Crossover Index of contracts tied to 50 mostly junk-rated
companies climbed eight basis points to 468, gaining from the
lowest level since Aug. 1, 2011.  Oil dropped the most in eight weeks, declining more than $3
in less than a minute in late trading, as October options were
about to expire. Oil for October delivery fell $2.38, or 2.4
percent, to settle at $96.62 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices are down 2.2 percent this year. The decline was
the largest since July 23.  CME Group Inc. did not suffer any technical issues during
the afternoon plunge in crude oil, gasoline and heating oil on
the NYMEX, said Chris Grams, a spokesman for CME.  Soybean futures plunged the maximum allowed by the Chicago
Board of Trade on speculation that rain will aid planting and
early crop development in  South America . Corn dropped the most
since May.  Zinc and aluminum fell more than 1.2 percent. The S&P GSCI
gauge of 24 commodities declined 2.3 percent after jumping 1
percent on Sept. 14 to the highest settlement since April 2.  Bullish commodity wagers rose to a 16-month high just
before the Fed’s pledge for more stimulus drove prices to a
seventh weekly advance and banks from HSBC Holdings Plc to
Citigroup Inc. forecast more gains.  Hedge funds  and other speculators lifted their net-long
positions across 18 U.S. futures and options by 0.3 percent to
1.33 million contracts in the week ended Sept. 11, the most
since May 2011, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
show. Copper holdings surged 25-fold to 17,509 contracts, the
biggest gain on record. Gold bets climbed to the highest since
Feb. 28, and silver wagers advanced for a seventh week.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  retreated 0.2 percent after
climbing for a seventh day on Sept. 14, the longest run of gains
in 11 months. Citigroup Inc. cut its 2013 Chinese economic
growth forecast, while a dispute with Japan over islands claimed
by both nations led to public protests in a dozen cities.  India ’s Sensex index rose 0.4 percent after the central
bank unexpectedly cut lenders’ reserve requirements and the
government said last week it will open its retail and airline
industries to foreign investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  