-- Asia Currencies Gain, Led by India, as Fed Easing Spurs Inflows
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-09-17T09:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/asia-currencies-gain-led-by-taiwan-as-fed-easing-spurs-inflows.html
Asian currencies strengthened as
the  Federal Reserve ’s asset-purchase plan spurred inflows into
the region’s higher-yielding assets. India’s rupee rose to a
four-month high after the government eased investment rules.  International investors increased holdings of Indonesian
South Korean, and Taiwanese stocks by $1.8 billion on Sept. 14,
a day after the Fed announced it would expand holdings of long-
term securities with open-ended buying of $40 billion of
mortgage debt per month in a third round of quantitative easing.
India’s government allowed overseas retailers to invest in
Asia’s third-largest economy, and said foreign airlines can own
minority stakes in local carriers. The  MSCI Asia Pacific
Excluding Japan Index (MXAPJ)  of shares rose to a four-month high.  “The QE3 is giving a boost to sentiment and expectations
of capital inflows,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “The boost for
the foreign-exchange rate from QE3 is likely to be temporary,”
he said. The risk of India’s reforms being rolled back, “given
past Indian government behavior, is a natural concern,” he
wrote in a separate note to clients.  The rupee strengthened 0.6 percent to 55.97 per dollar as
of 2:33 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Indonesia’s rupiah appreciated 0.1 percent to 9,515 and  Taiwan ’s
dollar rose 0.2 percent to NT$29.399, touching a four-month high
earlier. The Philippine peso slid 0.5 percent to 41.600,
retreating from a four-year high, as some investors judged gains
in the currency as excessive.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s most active currencies, snapped a four-day rally. The
gauge’s 60-day historical volatility rose one basis point, or
0.01 percent, to 3.43 percent.  ‘Speculative Money’  “It looks like there’s a lot of speculative money coming
into Taiwan,” said Tarsicio Tong, a foreign-exchange trader at
 Union Bank of Taiwan (2838)  in Taipei. “The Taiwan dollar’s surge was
also caused by panic selling of the greenback” due to
speculation the local currency will strengthen beyond the NT$29
per dollar level, he said.  Policy makers must control volatile capital flows as
quantitative easing measures taken in the U.S. and Europe have a
“negative spillover” into  developing countries , Bank of Korea
Governor Kim Choong Soo said on Sept. 14. The won added 0.1
percent to 1,115.97 per dollar.  Intervention Risk  “It’s a market still driven by the Fed’s announcement,
although further gains will depend on overseas inflows to the
stock market,” said Lee Jung Hyun, a Seoul-based currency
dealer at Industrial Bank of  Korea . The risk of central bank
intervention to curb currency gains is limiting appreciation,
according to Lee.  Philippine central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said today
that the nation will stay watchful of inflows and indications of
asset-price bubbles, adding the central bank will guard against
“any disruptions” that may lead to sharp foreign-exchange rate
fluctuations.  Elsewhere, China’s  yuan  fell 0.04 percent to 6.3169 and
Thailand’s baht weakened 0.2 percent to 30.82. The  Hong Kong
dollar  and Vietnam’s dong were little changed at HK$7.7524 and
20,855, respectively. Malaysia’s financial markets are closed
today for a holiday.  -- Editors: Amit Prakash, Andrew Janes  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net 
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 