-- ASX Dark Pool Trades at Record as Bourse Seeks More Rules
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-09-17T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/asx-dark-pool-trades-at-record-as-bourse-seeks-more-rules.html
Centre Point, the dark pool owned
by  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , reported record trading in August, with A$2.7
billion ($2.84 billion) worth of shares changing hands even as
Australia’s main bourse operator sought greater regulation.  The venue, which allows investors to trade anonymously away
from the main exchange, had a 3 percent share of cash-equity
turnover totaling A$90.8 billion in August, ASX  said. Centre
Point saw more than a million transactions in the same month
that the bourse operator warned regulators about the dangers of
platforms which do not display prices. Chi-X Australia Pty, the
only competitor to ASX for public cash-equities trading, hosted
 turnover  of A$3.3 billion in August, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Off-exchange trades, if not properly regulated, threaten
the integrity of  Australia ’s securities market because of its
small size, ASX said on Aug. 6 in response to an Australian
Securities & Investment Commission consultation on market
structure. ASX lost its monopoly as Australia’s only public, or
lit, venue in October last year with the entry of Nomura
Holdings Inc.’s Chi-X Australia.  “In August, we saw record volumes traded on Centre
Point,” said David Raper, general manager of trade execution
and information services at ASX. “Centre Point has delivered
more than A$85 million in meaningful price improvement and it’s
a positive sign that the new services are continuing to increase
liquidity for our customers.”  In March, 16.4 percent of trading went through dark pools,
according to statistics from regulator ASIC, with an additional
13.2 percent trading in blocks of larger than A$1 million away
from the exchange. In  Hong Kong , trades through dark pools
amounted to 1.5 percent of total turnover in the year through
February 2012, the city’s Securities and Futures Commission said
in its  annual report .  Bigger Share  Centre Point offers anonymous matching of orders at the
mid-price of the bid-offer spread that’s available in the
public, or lit, market. The venue’s block trading platform,
which started in June, allows users to specify a minimum
acceptable fill size and a so-called sweep function that will
send orders to Centre Point to check for price improvement
before routing to the main market, ASX TradeMatch.  Liquidnet, a dark-pool operator which only allows
investment companies, not brokers or trading firms, to use its
platform said the company’s market share has grown rapidly this
year in Australia. As ASX cash-equity volume has fallen 18
percent year to date, Liquidnet’s has grown 33 percent,  Lee Porter , head of Liquidnet Asia Pacific, said in an interview.  “Australia’s always been a blocky upstairs market,”
Porter said. “It’s always been estimated that 25-30 percent of
the market has been done off exchange then printed back to it so
it’s just been done in different ways and sliced up.”  ASIC’s consultation on draft market structure rules, which
include regulations on algorithms and high-frequency trading,
closed for comment September 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  