-- Australia’s Ferguson Says Commodity Price Boom Has Ended
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-09-17T02:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/australia-s-ferguson-says-commodity-price-boom-has-ended-1-.html
The global boom in commodity prices
is over and Australia must improve productivity in order to
remain competitive, Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  said.  “The easy earnings we get out of high prices are now
gone,” Ferguson told Bloomberg Television in an interview from
Canberra today.  While Australia’s economy grew about 4 percent in the first
half from the previous year on the strength of resource-industry
investment and  consumer spending , a plunge in the price of  iron
ore  and a high currency prompted mining companies including BHP
Billiton Ltd. and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  to put off
projects and cut employees in the past month.  BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, last month decided
to delay approval of an estimated $33 billion expansion of the
Olympic Dam copper, uranium and gold mine in South Australia.
Fortescue, Australia’s biggest iron ore producer after Rio Tinto
Group and  BHP (BHP) , said this month it’s cutting its full-year
 capital spending  forecast by 26 percent to $4.6 billion.  “We have to accept that here on in it’s going to be a lot
of hard work to actually expand capacity rather than rely on
increases in prices,” Ferguson said.  Steel Demand  Iron ore prices fell to a three-year low this month amid
stalling demand for steel in China. The commodity jumped 5.7
percent on Sept. 14 to $101.60, the highest since Aug. 22, after
China approved plans to build roads, subways, railroads, sewage-
treatment plants, ports and warehouses and the U.S. Federal
Reserve announced monetary stimulus.  Australia’s dollar rose 1.6 percent last week, the most
since June, and bought $1.0537 at 11:01 a.m. in Sydney today.
The high currency has increased production costs at the nation’s
resource projects relative to U.S. dollar revenues.  “We’re still competitive but the pressure is on us,”
Ferguson said. “The pressure is on management, the pressure is
on the workforce, the pressure is also on government at a state
and federal level, for these resource companies that we build
the necessary infrastructure, all aiming to improve
productivity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  