-- BAE Merger With EADS May Flush Out Suitors, Moody’s Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-09-17T15:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/bae-merger-with-eads-may-flush-out-other-suitors-moody-s-says.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ’s planned merger
with  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  may flush out
other suitors for the British weapons maker and set off industry
consolidation, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The negotiations between the companies will likely prompt
other defense contractors to consider consolidation as well as
asset trades, the New York-based credit-rating company said in a
report. It didn’t name any other possible suitors. EADS and BAE
announced on Sept. 12 that they are exploring a combination.  “We expect that the merger talks have now triggered at
least consideration of a new round of business realignments
within the global aerospace and defense industry, the immediate
effects of which could include counteroffers for BAE from other
large defense contractors,”  Russell Solomon , senior vice
president at Moody’s, said in the report.  EADS and BAE are attempting the biggest combination, valued
at $45 billion, in the  industry  as they seek to make each
company’s business less prone to cycles. EADS products include
the Airbus SAS civil aircraft, while BAE is among the largest
defense contractors in the U.S. Both companies already cooperate
on the Eurofighter warplane.  Big Bang  Creating a combined aerospace and defense company with
annual revenue approaching $100 billion, 20 percent greater than
competitor  Boeing Co. (BA) , would be positive for the credit ratings
of both companies given the scope for cost savings and greater
global reach, Moody’s said.  BAE  declined  as much as 4.8 pence, or 1.4 percent, to 342.2
pence in London, while EADS advanced as much as 73 cents, or 2.9
percent, to 26.03 euros in Paris.  Moody’s rating analysis was echoed by  Standard & Poor’s ,
which said the merged company’s business risk profile would
benefit from “stronger diversification and earnings
stability.”  In the U.S., the world’s largest defense market, BAE
competes with companies including Boeing and  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  EADS and BAE have said that they would “ring-fence”
BAE’s U.S. operations to ensure the U.S. Department of Defense
continues to provide clearance to do business with the group.  Some of the largest U.S. aerospace and defense companies
may consider a bid for BAE, said Andy Chambers, London-based
analyst for Redburn Partners LLP.  Value Highlighted  “BAE’s under valuation has been explicitly highlighted to
the market,” Chambers said in a note today. “This therefore
provides an opportunity for one of the U.S. aerospace & defence
companies such as Boeing,  Northrop Grumman (NOC)  or Lockheed Martin to
make a counter offer.”  EADS, which is based in Toulouse in southern  France , is
rated A1 by Moody’s, the fifth-highest investment-grade rating
on a 10-step scale. BAE, based in London, is  rated  Baa2 at
Moody’s, which is the second-lowest investment grade. EADS is
more than twice the size in terms of revenue, and the companies
said last week that Airbus parent would hold 60 percent of the
enlarged group, with BAE owning the rest.  “This is the start of consolidation” said John Kenkel,
London-based managing partner at Renaissance Strategic Advisors.
“It started with a bigger bang than anyone expected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  