-- BGI-Shenzhen Agrees to Buy Complete Genomics
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m   a n d   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-09-17T20:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/bgi-shenzhen-agrees-to-buy-complete-genomics.html
BGI-Shenzhen, a Chinese operator of
genome-sequencing centers, agreed to acquire  Complete Genomics
Inc. (GNOM)  for about $117.6 million to expand in the U.S. market for
medical and research DNA testing.  BGI will pay $3.15 a share in cash, a premium of about 54
percent over the closing price on June 4, the last trading day
before Complete Genomics’s announcement that it was exploring
strategic alternatives, the companies said today in a statement.
The board of  Mountain View , California-based Complete Genomics
unanimously recommended that stockholders accept BGI’s offer.  Genomes, the DNA instructions for making and operating
cells, are helping doctors understand and sometimes treat
cancer, inherited diseases, and other disorders. While BGI has
focused on agricultural and human genetic research, Complete
Genomics is preparing for greater use of DNA sequencing to
prevent and treat human disease, the companies said.  “We look forward to growing the business to improve
medical research and, when clinical services are provided,
support better disease diagnosis with tools that can be used by
doctors and hospitals to treat their patients,” said Wang Jun,
chief executive officer of BGI, in the statement.  More Accurate  Complete Genomics’s sequencing technology gives results
slower than that of  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , BGI’s major supplier of
sequencing machines, said  George Church , who advises both
Complete Genomics and BGI. However, studies have shown that the
technology BGI is acquiring is more accurate than Illumina’s,
and Complete Genomics has the potential give results in a time
frame that will be useful to doctors, Church said.  “BGI doesn’t want to be second in quality,” Church said
in a telephone interview.  The purchase may also reduce BGI’s dependence on Illumina
and sequencer-maker Life Technology Corp., said Doug Schenkel,
an analyst with Cowen and Co. in Boston.  “There’s been a belief out there that BGI would like to
have a little leverage over other vendors,” he said in a
telephone interview.  “It gives them more of a presence in the
services industry and gives them more access to this technology
and makes it more of an in-house technology.”  Complete Genomics rose 13 percent to $3.02 at the close in
 New York .  Most medical genetic testing in the U.S. is overseen by the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services under the  Clinical
Laboratory Improvements Amendment . Complete Genomics has said it
expects CLIA approval for a lab this year. The lab would compete
with San Diego-based Illumina Inc., which provides clinical
genome-analysis services.  Complete Genomics’s shares jumped 44 percent to $2.93 on
July 11 after the company announced a new method of sequencing
genomes that requires less material and improves accuracy. Under
today’s agreement, the company will also receive $30 million in
bridge financing for its operations, according to the statement.  BGI’s financial adviser on the deal is Citigroup Inc., and
 O’Melveny & Myers LLP  is the Chinese company’s legal counsel.
Complete Genomics is being advised by Jefferies & Co. and Latham
& Watkins LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  