-- BMW Bets All-Wheel 3 Series Will Help Top Mercedes in U.S.: Cars
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-09-17T01:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/bmw-bets-all-wheel-3-series-will-help-top-mercedes-in-u-s-cars.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  is
betting a new all-wheel-drive version of its 3 series sedan will
help catch a resurgent Mercedes that has outsold BMW all year
long in the U.S. market.  The perennial race among BMW,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz
and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus  in the U.S. has become more
important than ever. A slowing economy in  China  and a five-year
slump in Europe have raised the stakes in the U.S., where
premium cars continue to sell briskly.  “ North America  is the only bright spot, and in the luxury
race that’s shaping up to be really important,” saidMichelle Krebs, an analyst with researcher Edmunds.com. “It’s vital for
the German automakers because their home market of  Europe  is a
mess.”  While Mercedes and BMW are thriving in the U.S, BMW is
determined to do better after trailing Mercedes this year even
though it introduced a redesign of its popular 3 Series in
February. The early-year stumble may have been the result of
offering the Munich-based brand’s top-selling model without a
four-wheel drive version, popular in cold-winter markets such as
 New York  and  Boston  that are chock-full of luxury-car buyers.  “We were lacking cars for three or four months, now we are
fueling up,” Ludwig Willisch, head of BMW’s U.S. operations,
said last week in an interview from the automaker’s offices in
 Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey .  Tight Race  Mercedes’s introduction last year of an updated C-Class
compact sedan and new coupe version has helped U.S. sales rise
14 percent to 168,462 this year through August from a year
earlier. That puts Mercedes more than 3,800 deliveries ahead of
BMW, which boosted sales 5.6 percent to 164,636 for the same
period. Industrywide deliveries increased 15 percent through
August, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  The luxury-vehicle fight in 2012 looks to be close like
last year when BMW beat Mercedes by 2,715 deliveries, excluding
Daimler’s cargo vans and Smart cars and BMW’s Mini brand, which
aren’t  luxury vehicles .  “It will go right down to the wire again,” Tom Libby, an
analyst at R.L. Polk & Co., said in a telephone interview.  Lexus is probably too far behind to catch up in the year’s
remaining months, analysts have said.  That leaves the race mainly to the German luxury-car makers.
In February, Willisch said he expected sales of the new 3 Series,
last redesigned in 2005, to expand more than 10 percent. So far
this year, total U.S. sales of the 3 Series line, including old
versions of the coupe and wagon models, slipped 1.1 percent to
60,621 while deliveries of the new sedan rose 3.8 percent to
43,053, according to Autodata. BMW has continued to sell the
all-wheel-drive version of the old 3 Series while waiting on the
redesigned model.  Mercedes Fight  Sales of Mercedes’s C-Class, meanwhile, rose 27 percent to
49,868, boosted by 5,969 deliveries of the sportier two-door
version.  “We’re taking the fight to them,”  Steve Cannon , head of
Mercedes’ U.S. operations, said last week in an interview in New
York. “We’ve got a nice, strong plan for the rest of the
year.”  Mercedes should also see a boost in sales during the final
months of the year as a redesigned seven-seat GL-Class SUV and
an updated GLK, its smallest sport-utility, reach dealer lots.  “It’s going to be full-court to the end of the year,”
Cannon said. He said he doesn’t know if Mercedes will top BMW
this year, citing the fluctuations in his competitor’s sales and
introduction of the X1.  Safety Features  Now that BMW has ramped up 3 Series production and is
bringing out the all-wheel drive version, sales should surge and
make BMW the top-seller for the year, Willisch said.  “What counts is that we are in the No. 1 position New
Year’s Day and we plan to do that by a healthy margin,” he said.  The 3 Series, which was first introduced in 1975, is one of
the most profitable vehicle lines of all time,  Max Warburton , a
London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, has said. It has
generated $290 billion in revenue and $17 billion in earnings
before interest and taxes since 1995, he estimated.  The importance of all-wheel-drive as an option for luxury
cars began as consumers moved out of four-wheel-drive sport-
utility vehicles and into sedans and coupes and as they put
greater emphasis on safety features, Libby said.  “The move of customers in the direction of safety has
propelled the manufacturers to offer it more,” he said. “A
manufacturer that does not offer it is in trouble.”  About half of the  3 Series  sedans sold in the U.S. are all-
wheel drive, BMW said. In the northeast, for example, it’s 80
percent.  AWD Required  For many customers, the all-wheel-drive option has become
as much a requirement as an automatic transmission, Willisch
said.  “It really is something that they definitely want to have
and they don’t want to compromise on,” he said.  BMW’s sales will also be lifted in the U.S. by the addition
of the X1, which is classified as a car while looking like a
sport-utility vehicle. It’s based on the same frame as the
previous generation 3 Series. The X1, a step below BMW’s X3
midsize sport-utility vehicle, is the brand’s lowest-priced
model in the U.S., starting at $30,650.  BMW expects to sell more than 20,000 X1s in the U.S. next
year, Willisch said. Others aren’t as optimistic. IHS Automotive
estimates BMW will sell 3,000 this year and 13,000 to 14,000
next year, according to  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst for the
researcher.  BMW faces pressure from Mercedes in the U.S. as it also
sees increased competition from  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand in
other markets. BMW, the world’s best-selling luxury brand, saw
its global lead narrow to 2,110 over Audi after August sales,
the companies’ reported numbers show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  