-- Bo’s Police Chief Wang Admits to Defecting in Two-Day Trial
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-18T10:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/bo-xilai-s-judgment-day-nears-with-trial-of-former-police-chief.html
Wang Lijun, the former Chongqing
police chief whose flight to a U.S. diplomatic post in February
sparked  China ’s biggest political upheaval in a generation,
confessed to defecting during a two-day trial that ended today.  Wang’s actions were “very serious” and his cover-up of
the murder of British businessman Neil Heywood broke the law,
Chengdu Intermediate People’s Court spokesman Yang Yuquan said
at a briefing. The court will announce its verdict against Wang
“at a later time,” Yang said.  The wrapping up of Wang’s trial signals that China’s
Communist Party, which undergoes a once-a-decade leadership
transition this year, will now turn to the fate of his former
boss, ex-Chongqing Party Secretary  Bo Xilai . The downfall of Bo,
who was suspended from the ruling Politburo in April, threw the
transition of power into turmoil as China experienced its worst
leadership crisis since the Tiananmen Square protests.  “It looks like they are carefully closing doors left open,
one by one,” said Francois Godement, a professor of political
science at Sciences Po in Paris who advises the French foreign
ministry on Asian affairs. “It does not mean they won’t purge
him, but I would bet he’ll never be charged in court. Even a
trial of a few hours would be too sensitive and risky.”  Chongqing Model  Wang, 52, headed Chongqing’s police force from 2009 until
early February. He oversaw a crackdown on gangs that raised the
profile of Bo’s “Chongqing model,” with its focus on getting
tough on crime and fighting social inequality. The campaign
against organized crime, called “da hei,” or “strike black,”
was accompanied by allegations of arbitrary arrests and
beatings.  Wang employed illegal “technical reconnaissance measures”
against “many people on multiple occasions,” the official
Xinhua News Agency said today. It said he used the methods
either without official approval or by forging documents.  After his removal as police chief, announced on Feb. 2,
Wang fled to the U.S. Consulate in  Chengdu , where he told
diplomats that Bo’s wife Gu Kailai murdered Heywood, according
to U.S. officials briefed on the matter. After a night with
American officials that saw the consulate compound ringed by
police, Wang turned himself over to government authorities.  In a closed-door hearing Monday, Wang was tried on charges
of defecting and abusing power. In his trial today, Wang faced
charges of bribery and bending the law for personal gain.  Covered Up  “Prosecutors said Wang knew perfectly well” that Gu was
under suspicion of homicide, “but he deliberately covered up
for her,” the Xinhua News Agency said today. “The
circumstances are especially serious.”  Wang may be shown leniency because he helped investigators
with the murder case against Gu and because he surrendered to
Chinese authorities, according to Yang. Gu was convicted and
given a suspended death sentence last month for murdering
Heywood.  “The accused Wang Lijun voluntarily gave himself up after
defecting and provided the main reason behind his defection,”
Yang said in the statement. Wang was charged with taking 3.05
million  yuan  ($482,600) in bribes, he said.  Police today cordoned off the main gate to the courthouse
and reporters trying to attend the trial were barred from going
inside.  Bo, 63, committed “serious violations of discipline” in
the case, Xinhua reported in April. He has not been publicly
charged with any crime and hasn’t been seen in public since the
end of the National People’s Congress in Beijing in March.  “The real wider significance of the case is to find
pointers on how Bo will be treated,” said Steven Tsang,
director of the China Policy Institute at the University of
Nottingham in the U.K. “I am skeptical that the Bo case will be
released ahead of or at the Party Congress.  He will be dropped
from the Politburo but a full solution over his case may take
longer.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Chengdu at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  