-- Bomb Shelter Houses Ai Weiwei’s Tree, Kate Moss Broccoli
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-09-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/bomb-shelter-houses-ai-weiwei-s-tree-kate-moss-broccoli.html
The heavy door of a World War II
bomb shelter in central Berlin shuts with an ominous metallic
clang as you turn a dark corner and step gingerly over Olafur Eliasson’s driftwood logs in the twisting entrance tunnel.  This dungeon-like monstrosity of a building is a maze of
corridors, stairwells, and 2-meter-thick (6 foot) concrete
walls. With an absence of windows it should not, logically, be a
good place to display art. Built in 1942 under the direction of
Albert Speer, Hitler’s chief architect, it was designed to
protect as many as 2,000 rail passengers from allied raids.  It has since served as a Soviet jail, a banana depot and a
venue for hardcore S&M raves. Then Christian Boros, who amassed
a fortune in advertising, bought it in 2003, and turned it into
an  exhibition space  for his extensive contemporary-art
collection with a family home in a glass penthouse on the roof.  His quirky new exhibition is part adventure playground,
part treasure hunt. A turned corner reveals whimsical treats
such as Wolfgang Tillmans’s photograph of  Kate Moss  brandishing
a broccoli as though it was a perfectly normal thing to do in a
portrait. The oppressiveness of the architecture dissipates as
the homely smell of popcorn wafts down a staircase from Michael
Sailstorfer’s installation -- a popcorn machine.  The creepiness returns with Alicja Kwade’s atomic clock,
its amplified ticking following you down one corridor like the
relentless footsteps of time, impossible to escape.  Hobby Cellar  Boros calls the overground bomb shelter “a hobby cellar”
for himself and his wife, Karen Boros. In the four years since
it opened, the “Boros Bunker,” as it’s known locally, has
attracted 120,000 visitors, with tours in 11 languages.  “Nothing better could have happened to this ugly building
than to be taken over by the free-spiritedness of art,” the 47-
year-old entrepreneur said at the opening of the new exhibition,
the first time the show has changed in four years.  Ai Weiwei’s tree is the biggest piece in the show. Actually
a collection of sections of different camphor trees, it is
fitted together using ancient Chinese joinery techniques. Boros
said he bought it the day before Ai was arrested. The price may
have been higher if he’d delayed a week.  Boros said he hands over the keys of the place to the
artists to install their own works. The night before the new
exhibition opened, he came home late from a reception to see a
light still burning. Thomas Zipp, whose dark paintings portray
clouds and skeletons, was adding a layer to the mortar in the
bricks of a wall. His sign saying “Please paint it white” was
still there in the morning.  Trash Cans  A collection of Klara Liden’s trash cans recalls the days
when the building was a club. They look completely at home here,
in a way that they wouldn’t in a pristine white cube.  The only artwork produced for the exhibition is wittily
site-specific. Instead of windows, the shelter has ventilation
holes drilled into its thick walls. On the wall opposite one of
these, Manon & Benjamin Awst & Walther embedded an arrow for
their work “The Line of Fire.”  The first reaction on spotting the aperture and the trees
outside is to duck to avoid the next shot.  The Welsh-German artist couple has also installed long
tubes of metal, blocking an upper corridor and forcing you to
step over them. It came as a surprise to realize the poles
really penetrate the concrete walls, and that you can peer
through them from one room into another across the hallway.  Visits to the Boros bunker are by tour only. To reserve, go
to  http://www.sammlung-boros.de .  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Jorg von
Uthmann  on Paris art and  James Russell  on architecture.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 