-- Brazil Workers Earning Overtime for E-Mails to Boost Cost
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-09-17T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/brazil-workers-earning-overtime-for-e-mails-to-boost-cost.html
Brazil ’s decision to recognize
overtime pay for workers contacted by their bosses after regular
hours by e-mail or telephone is poised to increase companies’
costs and test their ability to boost productivity.  Employees must be paid a third of their hourly compensation
if called or texted by their managers outside of regular work
hours, according to a Sept. 14  statement  by the highest labor
court in Brasilia, Tribunal Superior do Trabalho. Having a
company-owned mobile device doesn’t grant or guarantee an
overtime payment, the court said. The ruling is meant to provide
guidance to the nation’s judges in future labor suits.  While the ruling is fair, it probably will boost costs for
companies in a country where labor regulations and taxes are
often considered an obstacle to doing business, said  David Fleischer , a political analyst at the University of Brasilia.  “There are not many countries with labor charges so high
as Brazil, where companies pay 103 percent on top of salaries,”
he said in a telephone interview from Brasilia yesterday.
“There are attempts to reduce the Brazil cost but so far things
are not going very well.”  The labor court issued the ruling in response to
legislation signed into law by President  Dilma Rousseff  in
December 2011 that said the use of company-owned portable
communications devices is equivalent to working in the office.
The court had to determine how to enforce the new law.  Brazil, the world’s largest developing economy after  China ,
is seeking to reduce the cost of doing business, which
manufacturers say deters investment and competitiveness.
Rousseff’s administration cut  interest rates  to a record low,
reduced labor taxes for some industries and last week announced
reductions in electricity rates.  Economic growth in Brazil will slow to 1.6 percent this
year, a smaller rate than the U.S. or  Japan , from 2.7 percent in
2011, according to a central bank survey of economists published
last week. The rate of expansion will quicken to 4 percent in
2013, according to the same survey.  Unintended Consequences  Anthony Pereira, director of the Brazil Institute at King’s
College,  London , said the labor court decision is fair but could
create unintended consequences. Employers may be encouraged to
route all after-hours communication to managers, who would not
be covered by this ruling, he said in an e-mail statement.  “If this ruling is seen as fair and it results in workers
who feel valued, there is no reason to think that it would be
ruinous for competitiveness and productivity,” Pereira said.
“That being said, it will probably be a hard law to interpret
and enforce.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  