-- Brazil M&A Reporting Rules May Change to Appease Funds
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2012-09-17T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/brazil-s-antitrust-authority-may-change-rules-governing-funds.html
Brazil’s antitrust authority may
change merger reporting requirements for investment funds after
complaints that the regulations, which took effect three months
ago, are too sweeping.  “We are talking to capital-markets associations and
lawyers in Brazil and abroad,” said Carlos Ragazzo, general
superintendent of Cade, as the authority is known. The goal is
to “bring to the board the possibility of change in the
regulation for funds as a way to improve the legal procedure,”
Ragazzo said in an interview.  The merger law, which Brazil President  Dilma Rousseff 
signed late last year, requires buyers to seek antitrust
approval before closing a deal. It forces funds to report
acquisitions to Cade if annual revenue exceeds 750 million reais
($373 million) at either the fund’s shareholder, the fund-
management company or other companies from the same sector in
the fund’s portfolio or among the management company’s holdings.  Bruno Amaral, head of the merger-and-acquisition commission
at Anbima, Brazil’s capital-markets association, said the group
will provide any information Cade needs to “explain how the
fund industry works and how we could simplify the rule to avoid
a waste of time for companies, lawyers and also for Cade.”
Amaral is a partner at Banco BTG Pactual SA, the fourth-largest
 Brazil  merger adviser so far this year.  Old System  Under the new legislation, Cade said it will take no more
than 330 days to review a proposed merger. Otherwise, it will be
automatically approved. The new rules were intended to prevent
mergers from taking place before antitrust regulators had a
chance to review them. Previously, companies filed requests to
review transactions after an accord had already been reached,
allowing operations to be merged before final approval, which
could take as long as two years.  Of the 41 cases submitted to Cade under the new law, the
average time of approval was 19 days, Ragazzo said. Seventeen of
the deals included funds, and those had an average approval time
of 17 days, he said.  Cade may also seek changes in legislation covering venture-
capital investments.  “I don’t want to analyze small startup businesses,”
Ragazzo said. “Using a minimum value as a criteria for the deal
submission is one alternative we are studying,” he said, adding
that countries including the U.S. take that into account in
their antitrust laws.  Under the new law, buyers must submit the transaction to
Cade if their revenue exceeds 750 million reais and the seller
has revenue of 75 million reais or more. The size of the
transaction isn’t considered.  Brazil mergers have declined 40 percent this year to $45.4
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The number of deals
fell to 463 from 480 in the same period last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  