-- Brazil Real Drops on Central Bank Intervention; Swap Rates Rise
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-09-17T21:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/brazil-real-drops-on-central-bank-intervention-swap-rates-rise.html
Brazil ’s real dropped the most
since July after the central bank intervened to help exporters
maintain competitive prices.  The real was the biggest loser among the dollar’s 16 most-
traded counterparts tracked by Bloomberg after the central bank
sold reverse currency swaps for the fourth time in four days.
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  reiterated in a newspaper
interview that the government won’t let the real strengthen.  “The  exchange rate  still has the Mantega question,”
 Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at Banco West LB do
Brasil, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  The real depreciated 1 percent to 2.0320 per dollar at the
close of trading in Sao Paulo, the biggest drop on a closing
basis since July 3. Swap rates on contracts due in January 2013
increased two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.31
percent.  Shorter-term swap rates rose after the central bank lowered
reserve requirements for financial institutions, damping
speculation further cuts in borrowing costs will be needed to
sustain the economic recovery.  “The reserve-requirement reductions help to increase
consumption and contribute to bets that the Selic has stopped
falling,” said Rostagno, referring to the target lending rate.  Brazil’s central bank said Sept. 14 it cut  reserve
requirements  to free up 30 billion reais ($14.8 billion) in
credit as President  Dilma Rousseff  pushes financial institutions
to reduce borrowing costs.  Growth Concern  The real also declined as  China ’s growth concern sapped
demand for emerging-market assets. China’s stocks tumbled after
Citigroup Inc. said the Asian country’s economic growth slowdown
will extend into next year.  Brazil’s central bank said in a statement today that it
sold 43,500 reverse currency swaps out of 70,000 offered today
including 35,500 contracts due in November for $1.77 billion and
8,000 contracts due in December for $399 million. The real has
fallen 8.1 percent this year, the most among the dollar’s major
counterparts.  Brazil won’t allow the real to strengthen after the  Federal
Reserve  announced last week a third round of asset purchases,
Mantega said in an interview with the daily O Estado de S.Paulo
on Sept. 16.  “We aren’t going to let the real appreciate,” Mantega
told Estado. “The exchange rate will continue fluctuating, but
we hope it fluctuates more in the opposite direction. In the
past it fluctuated in one direction. Now, it will either be
stable or will fluctuate in the other direction.”  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini have cut the target lending rate by five percentage
points since August 2011 to a record low 7.5 percent.  The IGP-10 inflation index, which monitors Brazil’s
wholesale, consumer and construction costs from Aug. 11 to Sept.
10, rose 1.05 percent, the Getulio Vargas Foundation reported.
The median forecast of 27 economists in a Bloomberg survey was
for a 1.02 percent increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in em São Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  