-- California Voters Weigh $1 Billion Tax Break for Business
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-09-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/california-voters-weigh-1-billion-tax-break-for-business.html
California  lawmakers couldn’t bring
themselves to end a $1 billion tax break for  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
 Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  and other multistate businesses, so now
voters will decide.  If  Proposition 39  is approved, as at least one recent poll
suggests, corporations based outside California would lose an
option that let some pay lower income taxes than those in-state.  California, the most populous and most indebted state, has
cut spending on schools and the poor to help erase a $15.7
billion deficit. Governor  Jerry Brown  is asking voters in
November for higher sales and income taxes.  “Special interests will block any attempt to close this
loophole through the Legislature,” said Assembly Speaker John Perez, a Los Angeles Democrat who championed an effort to repeal
the tax break that died in the Senate Aug. 31. “It is up to the
voters to approve this measure to make California businesses
competitive and create jobs.”  Leading the fight for passage of the ballot measure is
billionaire hedge-fund manager Thomas Steyer, the chairman of
Farallon Capital Management LLC in  San Francisco , who has
donated $21.9 million to the effort, according to campaign-
finance records.  The nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s Office estimates that
adopting the so-called single-sales factor tax formula would
yield $1 billion a year in additional revenue. Perez’s plan
earmarked the money for college scholarships. Under Steyer’s
proposition, half would go toward general spending and half to
energy-efficiency projects.  Tax Rules  California requires businesses in agriculture, mining and
banking to base their corporate taxes equally on payroll,
property and sales, according to the state Finance Department.
Other companies may  choose  to base their taxes 100 percent on
sales, or a formula that’s 50 percent in-state sales, 25 percent
property and 25 percent on other sales.  The rules were put in place as part of a deal Governor
 Arnold Schwarzenegger  struck with fellow Republicans in 2009 in
return for their support of a tax increase to help eliminate a
$35 billion deficit.  Corporate income taxes are the third-largest revenue source
for California’s general fund, yielding $9.6 billion in
2010-2011, the legislative analyst said.  Perez’s legislative bid to repeal the optional tax formula
attracted support from unions including the California Teachers
Association and from one corporation, San Diego-based  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM) , according to a legislative analysis.  ‘Tax Fairness’  “It’s a question of tax fairness,” Steyer, the co-
chairman of Yes on 39, said in a  blog post . “This corporate
loophole only helps out-of-state companies. Nobody else. It
saves them just over a billion dollars per year in taxes. On top
of that, it is powerful incentive for them not to hire
Californians.”  Opponents include companies that have benefited from the
choice such as GM in Detroit, Dallas-based Kimberly-Clark, the
maker of personal-care products; Chrysler Group, the automaker
based in  Auburn Hills , Michigan, and Memphis, Tennessee-based
 International Paper Co. (IP)   Spokesmen for each of the companies declined to give
information about their tax liabilities in California or how
they would change if the optional tax formula were repealed.
They referred questions to Peter DeMarco, the Sacramento-based
spokesman for their lobbying group, California Employers Against
Higher Taxes.  Proposition’s Implications  DeMarco declined to comment on the tax implications of the
change on individual companies, saying it was proprietary
information. H.D. Palmer, a spokesman for the Finance
Department, said state officials wouldn’t release the
information for the same reason.  Qualcomm hasn’t taken a position on Proposition 39,
spokeswoman Christie Thoene said by e-mail. The campaign for the
measure lists several smaller companies as backers on its
 website , such as  Atlas Project Support , a consultancy based in
Bonsall, California, that advises developers on  energy
efficiency . The company’s founder, Michael Vargas, said the
ballot measure’s promise of as much as $500 million a year to
help curb energy use could be good for his three-employee firm.  “People are more interested in the energy space than ever
before,” Vargas said by telephone.  Opponents haven’t set up a formal political committee to
fight the measure,  according  to secretary of state records.  Additional Cost  The tax change would amount to a $1 billion a year in
additional cost for businesses while the state is struggling
with the nation’s third-highest unemployment rate, said Dorothy Rothrock, vice president of the California Manufacturers and
Technology Association.  The Golden State’s business climate is already seen as
difficult because of environmental laws and sales taxes on
manufacturing equipment, she said by telephone.  “If this is something to ostensibly benefit the economy in
California, why aren’t businesses supporting it?” Rothrock
said. “There’s no benefits. There’s only harm.”  Proposition 39 had the support of 57 percent of likely
voters in an online  poll  released last week by the California
Business Roundtable and Pepperdine University School of Public
Policy. About 29 percent opposed the measure. The poll of 802
people was conducted Sept. 9-12 and had a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  The proposition will face “strong headwinds” as opponents
play up their economic arguments, said Bob Stern, president of
the nonpartisan Center for Governmental Studies in  Los Angeles .  “When a measure is complicated and voters aren’t sure,
they tend to vote no,” Stern said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  