-- Canada Dollar Declines as Oil Tumbles on Slowing Economic Growth
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-09-17T21:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/canada-dollar-falls-as-eu-leaders-differ-on-debt-crisis-measures.html
The Canadian dollar declined for a
second day against its U.S. counterpart as oil fell the most in
almost three months and stocks slipped after signs of a slowing
economy damped investor demand for higher-yielding assets.  The currency dropped as Canadian existing home sales fell
the most in more than two years in August and a regional measure
of U.S. manufacturing contracted more than forecast. The
currency declined from almost a 13-month high as European Union
finance ministers were deadlocked over efforts to quell the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Canada ’s inflation rate is
expected to hold steady at 1.3 percent when the report is
released on Sept. 21.  “The Canadian dollar fell from the tremendous amount of
selling pressure on oil in the afternoon,” Blake Jespersen,
managing director of foreign exchange in Toronto at  Bank of
Montreal (BMO) , said in a phone interview. “There’s always been a
correlation between oil and the Canadian dollar. Traders and
investors are looking at the slide in oil and saying that the
Canadian dollar should also be weaker.”  The loonie, as the currency is known for the image of the
waterfowl on the C$1 coin, declined 0.4 percent to 97.48 cents
per  U.S. dollar . The currency has gained 4.8 percent this year
and touched 96.33 on Sept. 14, the strongest level since August
2011. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0259.  Canadian bonds declined, with the yield on the 10-year
benchmark falling two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
1.95 percent. The 2.75 security maturing in June 2022 rose 22
cents to C$107.12.  Oil Plunges  Crude-oil futures fell 2.4 percent in  New York  after
tumbling as much as 4.4 percent, the largest intraday decline
since June 21. The commodity, Canada’s biggest export, dropped
more than $3 in less than a minute as October contracts were
close to expiring.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  dipped 0.3 percent after
falling as much as 0.6 percent.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general  economic
index  dropped to minus 10.41, the lowest since April 2009, from
minus 5.85 in August. The median forecast of 53 economists in a
Bloomberg survey called for minus 2. Readings less than zero
signal contraction in the so-called Empire State Index that
covers New York, northern New Jersey and southern  Connecticut .  The New York data “just adds more fuel to the fire that
there’s a general slowdown in the manufacturing sector and more
broadly in the  U.S. economy ,” Mazen Issa, Canada macro
strategist at the securities unit of  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  in
Toronto, said in a phone interview.  Home Sales  The  sale of homes  fell 5.8 percent in August to 35,869,
from 38,063 in July, the  Canadian Real Estate Association  said
in a statement posted on its website. Home sales were down 8.9
percent from the same month last year. The average national
price for existing homes rose 1.1 percent from July and 0.3
percent from a year earlier.  Bonds of Canadian banks, ranked the soundest for five
straight years by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum , are the
worst performers this year versus their global peers as slowing
 consumer lending  cuts into profit growth.  The U.S. dollar-denominated debt of lenders including Royal
Bank of Canada and Bank of Montreal has returned 4 percent,
compared with an average increase of 12 percent for the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporates, Banks Index.  Foreigners increased their holdings of Canadian securities
in July, led by purchases of  government bonds . The net purchase
of C$6.67 billion ($6.87 billion) in July followed the revised
net sale of C$7.76 billion in June,  Statistics Canada  said today
in Ottawa. Bond investment by foreigners rose by C$6.10 billion,
led by secondary market purchases of federal and provincial
bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in New York at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  