-- Carlyle Names Goldman’s Mancini Co-Head of Infrastructure
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-09-17T14:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/carlyle-names-goldman-s-mancini-co-head-of-infrastructure-2-.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the second-
largest private-equity firm by assets, appointed Robert Mancini
from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  as co-head of its infrastructure
fund.  Mancini, 54, is a managing director at Goldman Sachs and
also chief executive officer of Cogentrix Energy LLC, a power
producer that Carlyle agreed to acquire from Goldman Sachs on
Sept. 7, the Washington-based buyout firm said today in a
statement. Mancini will join Carlyle after the completion of the
acquisition during the fourth quarter, Carlyle said.  Carlyle is expanding investments into energy and
infrastructure beyond its joint venture with Riverstone Holdings
LLC, the New York-based private-equity firm that partnered with
Carlyle starting in 2000. Riverstone, founded by two former
Goldman Sachs executives, is raising money without Carlyle for
the first time as it seeks $6 billion for a new energy fund.  “Bob’s wealth of experience in leading the acquisition,
development and operation of power generating facilities will
play a significant role as we pursue an active program of
acquiring and developing power projects across  North America ,”
Robert Dove, whom Mancini will join as the fund’s co-head, said
in the statement.  Carlyle Infrastructure Partners, which began investing in
September 2006 with $1.1 billion, had a negative 5 percent net
internal rate of return at the end of the second quarter.
Investments in the fund include Illinois Central School Bus LLC
and ITS Technologies & Logistics LLC, which lifts containers
onto and off of trains and trucks, according to Carlyle’s
 website .  Carlyle’s acquisition of Goldman Sachs-backed Cogentrix
includes five coal and solar power projects in Florida,
 Virginia , Colorado and California. The deal, whose value wasn’t
disclosed, also included  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Cogentrix staff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  