-- CAW Reaches Deal With Ford Before Turning to GM, Chrysler
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-09-17T21:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/caw-reaches-tentative-agreement-with-ford-motor.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  and the Canadian
Auto Workers reached a four-year labor agreement, avoiding a
strike that would have shut down production of models such as
the Ford Edge and Lincoln MKT.  The contract mostly eliminates cost-of-living raises for
workers or for retirees, the union said in a conference call
today. Ford agreed to create about 600 jobs, including a partial
third shift at Oakville, the union said. Workers will get
C$2,000 ($2,050) lump-sum payments in lieu of raises and a
C$3,000 ratification bonus. The  pension plan  won’t be changed to
a 401(k)-like defined-contribution plan, the CAW said.  The union said it will ask General Motors Co. and Chrysler
Group LLC to accept the same terms. If agreements can’t be
reached by midnight, union members may strike, said CAW
President  Ken Lewenza , who added that the sides are “miles”
apart. If negotiators are making progress, the union will extend
the deadline, he said.  “We said on day one we’d be flexible in their areas of
fixed costs, and the company had to be flexible in the area of
rewarding our members,” Lewenza said. “We achieved both.”  Ford won’t comment on the agreement until it is ratified,
the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker said in an e-mail. GM
declined to comment on the Ford agreement, Adria MacKenzie said
in an e-mailed statement. LouAnn Gosselin, a Chrysler
spokeswoman, declined to comment in a telephone interview.  Union Ratification  The accord is subject to a ratification vote by CAW
members, which will be held this weekend, the union said. Ford
has about 4,500 CAW-represented workers in Ontario, including
the Oakville factory in Oakville as well as plants that produce
V-8 and V-10 engines. The union wasn’t able to secure new
products for its plants.  The CAW said Sept. 16 it would focus its bargaining at
Ford, intending to use an agreement with the automaker to
establish basic terms of new contracts with  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and Chrysler Group LLC. Chrysler criticized the CAW’s move in a
Sept. 16 statement, saying that Ford isn’t “in the best
position to take on this role.”  Manufacturing in Canada has become more expensive as the
nation’s currency has risen about 60 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  during the past 10 years. The CAW accepted a pay freeze
and gave up bonuses and time off along with other concessions as
part of the restructuring that brought GM and Chrysler out of
bankruptcy in 2009. The union has said it would resist
concessions in this year’s talks, citing the U.S. automakers’
return to profitability.  Plant Closings  GM and Ford have moved to reduce operations in  Canada 
during the past year. Ford last year closed its St. Thomas,
Ontario, factory that made the Ford Crown Victoria and Lincoln
Town Car sedans.  GM said that it plans to shut its consolidated assembly
line in Oshawa, Ontario, in June 2013, which will eliminate
2,000 jobs, according to a CAW statement on June 1. The company
plans to shift production of its Chevrolet Equinox sport-utility
vehicle from the plant to  Tennessee , where most workers will be
paid less than $17 an hour. Oshawa is also where GM makes the
new Cadillac XTS full-size luxury sedan.  Ford fell 1.3 percent to $10.39 at the close in  New York .
The shares have slipped 3.4 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  