-- CAW Moving Closer to Labor Accord With Ford Motor
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-09-17T16:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/caw-looks-to-ford-to-set-terms-of-labor-accord-corporate-canada.html
The Canadian Auto Workers is
concentrating on negotiations with  Ford Motor  Co. as the union
looks to reach a deal that will set the outlines for agreements
with General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC and avoid its
first strike against a U.S.-based automaker in 16 years.  “We can clearly see the finish line, however we are not
there yet,” Peter Kennedy, secretary-treasurer of the CAW, said
today in a telephone interview from Toronto. “Even though you
have conceptual agreements on some items, until you actually see
the language and how it’s written up, you never know.”  Ford has relented on demands related to pensions, health
care and permanently lower wages for new hires, CAW President
 Ken Lewenza  said in an interview. The union is willing to extend
the number of years needed to reach full hourly pay to 10 years,
he said. A full deal can be reached before midnight, he said.  A month of discussions aimed at securing a deal for about
18,000 Canadian Auto Workers members has yet to produce an
accord before the current contract expires at 11:59 p.m. local
time today. The talks come a year after the CAW’s U.S.
counterpart agreed to give up base wage increases in a bid to
lower labor costs. Ford in July called Canadian labor costs the
most expensive it faces in the world.  Chrysler and  GM (GM)  have been unwilling to compromise, Lewenza
said said, adding that talks could be extended if the tone
changes.  “Ford has sent a very strong message that the issues that
remain outstanding are not insurmountable,” he said.  ‘Better Relationship’  Lewenza said yesterday the union’s priority is bargaining
with Ford. If the union reaches an accord, it will try to extend
the basic terms to GM and Chrysler. The negotiations cover eight
auto and engine plants in Ontario, where output has  declined  due
to a rising Canadian dollar and a shift in work to the U.S. and
 Mexico .  “The CAW has long had a better relationship with Ford than
with the other automakers, and this choice of the target company
just cements that,”  Charlotte  Yates, a professor of labor
studies at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, said today
in a telephone interview. “Ford has clearly signaled to the CAW
that they are willing to move.”  ‘Smallest Footprint’  Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford operates two engine plants in
the Windsor region and an assembly plant in Oakville, near
Toronto. The company employs about 4,500 people at its Canadian
operations, compared with more than 8,000 each for GM and
Chrysler.  Ford has “the smallest footprint in  Canada  and the least
to lose by an unfavorable agreement,” Tony Faria, co-director
of the  Office of Automotive and Vehicle Research  at the
University of Windsor, Ontario, said in an e-mail. Ford “was
the first to cave in during the 2008 CAW negotiations,” Faria
said.  While carmakers seek to cut expenses, unions are refusing
to go beyond concessions in the 2009 deal that were part of
government-backed bankruptcies of GM and Chrysler.  CAW leaders say that their members’ contribution to the
companies’ turnarounds must be recognized, and that they remain
opposed to the so-called “two-tier” system wages negotiated in
the U.S. The province’s car industry has shrunk by about a third
since 2000, eliminating about 50,000 jobs, according to CAW
 estimates .  Ford’s Reaction  Ford is “confident” that it and the CAW “can find
innovative solutions to help build a successful future for our
Canadian operations,” according to a company statement issued
yesterday.  “If  Ford Motor Co. (F)  has a desire to get a deal, our folks
will get a deal,” Lewenza said yesterday in Toronto. Some
agreements in principle with the company have already been
reached, he said without elaborating.  Chrysler is “very concerned by the CAW decision,” LouAnn
Gosselin, a spokeswoman for Chrysler Canada, said in an e-mail.
Ford isn’t “in the best position to take on this role.” The e-
mail cited Ford’s “significant reduction” in Canada. Ford
closed a vehicle-assembly plant in Ontario last year.  GM was the last carmaker to be hit by a strike in Canada,
in 1996. That walkout lasted 20 days, paralyzing the company’s
Canadian operations and forcing layoffs at other North American
plants.  “Chrysler’s nervous,” said Yates at  McMaster University .
Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne “has articulated some very
hardline positions regarding two-tier wages. If Chrysler is
wanting permanent two-tier wages, it is not going to be happy if
Ford is chosen and gets a deal because it puts greater pressure
on them.”  Loonie’s Surge  “Nobody wins in a strike,” Van Conway, chief executive
officer of the Conway MacKenzie Inc. restructuring firm in
Birmingham,  Michigan , said in a telephone interview. “If the
automakers make a strategic decision in the long run to exit
Canada because they don’t want this to happen again, that would
be the worst thing that could happen to the CAW.”  Car production in Canada has been hamstrung by an increase
of about 60 percent in the Canadian dollar against its U.S.
counterpart in the past 10 years that has made the country’s
auto factories, all of which are in Ontario, less competitive
globally.  The CAW in April proposed a national auto policy that
included a call for the government to intervene to lower the
value of the currency and to negotiate “manufacturing footprint
commitments” with automakers.  Unemployment Rate  “Ontario’s  unemployment rate  is above the national average
now, and one of the big reasons is that the  auto industry  hasn’t
come back to its full potential of before the financial
crisis,” said Hosen Marjaee, a senior managing director at
Manulife Asset Management in Toronto, which oversees C$17
billion ($17 billion) of fixed-income assets and owns Ontario
bonds.  Canada, which ranked as the world’s fourth-largest car
producer in 1999, has slipped out of the top 10, the union said.  Current negotiations have seen the so-called Detroit Three
make “unprecedented” demands, according to the CAW. Those
include cuts in benefits, the elimination of an annual cost-of-
living adjustment and the transfer of all workers to a defined-
contribution retirement plan. GM, Ford and  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based Chrysler also refuse to commit to new Canadian
factory investments, the CAW said in a Sept. 10 leaflet.  Fiat
SpA (F)  owns a majority of Chrysler.  ‘Key Problem’  With the  United Auto Workers  “having negotiated freezes
for a while, if that doesn’t happen in the Canadian context, or
something similar, then that gap begins to widen with the U.S.
and Mexico,” Carlos Gomes, an economist at Bank of  Nova Scotia 
in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “The key problem is
not where we stand now, but if similar types of cost controls
aren’t put in place then that gap will widen.”  Wages account for about 6 percent of the cost of making a
car on average, according to data from the Center for Automotive
Research in  Ann Arbor , Michigan.  Ford pays $79 an hour for wages and benefits to its hourly
workers in the country, Lauren More, a spokeswoman for the
company, said last month. That labor rate is the highest Ford
faces worldwide and compares with $64 an hour in the U.S., she
said.  The CAW disputes Ford’s estimates, saying much of the gap
relates to former employees. Without those so-called legacy
costs, union labor runs a little more than C$62 an hour,
compared with about C$60 for UAW members, Jim Stanford, the
union’s economist, said earlier this year.  ‘Philosophical Problem’  Carmakers “are determined to make sure autoworkers in the
future are not paid what autoworkers have historically made in
the industry,” Lewenza said yesterday. Companies want “to make
sure a new autoworker never gets to the top rate. That’s a
philosophical problem.”  Ontario has a lot riding on the outcome of the labor talks.
Factories in Canada’s most populous province produced 1.42
million motor vehicles in the first seven months of 2012, almost
20 percent more than in the same period a year ago, Bank of Nova
Scotia said in an Aug. 14  report . The province accounts for
about 16 percent of North American auto output.  “Anything that holds back economic growth and employment
is a serious concern,” said Manulife’s Marjaee. “Ontario
cannot afford to have more people unemployed or on strike and
less revenue coming in.”  Canada and Ontario spent a combined C$10.6 billion to
acquire minority  stakes  in GM in 2009 when the Detroit-based
automaker reorganized under  bankruptcy protection  with aid from
the U.S. and Canadian governments.  Unemployment Rate  A monthlong strike by auto workers would cut Ontario’s
gross domestic product by 1.4 percent, the biggest such drop
since the global crisis of 2008-09, said Gomes. For Canada as a
whole, the dispute would curb GDP by 0.6 percent, he said.  Unemployment in Ontario rose to 8 percent  last month  from
7.9 percent in July, exceeding the nation’s  7.3 percent  rate.  “Even a one-week walkout could jeopardize Canada’s
increasingly listless growth,” cutting September GDP by 0.25
percentage point and disrupting North American output and retail
spending into the fourth quarter, Mark Hopkins, a senior
economist at Moody’s Analytics, wrote in a Sept. 14 note to
clients.  Shrinking market share may be adding to the Detroit Three’s
urgency to drive costs down. Although Canadian car sales are on
the rise, GM, Ford and Chrysler have been losing ground to Asian
competitors such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Cars made in Ontario
include Chrysler minivans, the Chevrolet Camaro and the Lincoln
MKT.  Car and light-truck sales in Canada climbed 6.7 percent in
the first eight months of the year, according to data compiled
by DesRosiers Automotive Consultants Inc. Sales advanced 6.4
percent in August compared with the same month a year earlier.  Together, the three U.S.-based automakers controlled about
45 percent of the Canadian market through the end of August,
down from about 48 percent a year earlier, DesRosiers data show.  “It’s a different world now,” said Conway at Conway
MacKenzie. “You’re no longer in an environment where North
American car companies have 70 percent of the market. These car
companies went to hell and back in 2008 and 2009, and they are
going to be less tolerant on requests that are outdated.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  