-- Celgene’s Thalidomide Shown to Improve Cough in Ailment
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-09-17T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/celgene-s-thalidomide-shown-to-improve-cough-in-ailment.html
Thalidomide, the morning-sickness
drug linked to  birth defects  in the 1960s and revived decades
later to fight cancer, helped with a debilitating cough tied to
a fatal lung condition in a small study.  Coughing was reduced by about 63 percent for patients with
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis who were given thalidomide,
according to a 20-person trial reported today in the Annals of
 Internal Medicine . While patients on the medicine experienced
side effects including constipation, dizziness and malaise, each
opted to keep taking thalidomide after the trial ended.  Researchers suspected the drug’s effects on the immune
system may make it a potential treatment for IPF, though a
previous trial wasn’t successful in determining its efficacy.
The study did suggest thalidomide helps against the dry,
debilitating cough that afflicts as many as 80 percent of IPF
patients, said Maureen Horton, at  Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine .  “We noticed the people on thalidomide, their cough went
away,” said Horton, an associate professor of medicine and
environmental  health sciences  at the Baltimore school and a
study author. “They came to us and said, ‘Hey, you cured my
cough.’”  The disease affects 80,000 to 100,000 people in the U.S.,
Horton said in a telephone interview. Its cause is unknown.  In today’s report, adverse events were found in 74 percent
of patients on thalidomide, compared with 22 percent on placebo.
Thalidomide is sold by Summit, New Jersey-based drugmaker
 Celgene Corp. (CELG)  as Thalomid for multiple myeloma.  The company provided funding and supplied the drug for the
study. It wasn’t involved with the trial design.  Strict Regulations  Celgene sells the drug under strict regulations to prevent
pregnancies while patients are on therapy, said Greg Geissman, a
spokesman for the company. Thalomid had $339 million in revenue
last year. Celgene also sells a next-generation therapy,
Revlimid, which drew $3.2 billion in 2011 sales for multiple
myeloma and myelodysplastic syndromes.  The results warrant a larger study to evaluate thalidomide
or Revlimid’s effects on cough in IPF, and potentially to assess
whether they may work to treat the disease itself, Horton said.
There’s no approved treatment for IPF in the U.S.;  InterMune
Inc. (ITMN) , a biotechnology company based in Brisbane, California,
sells Esbriet in the European Union and is in late-stage trials
in the U.S.  The results published today “will encourage patients and
frustrate them because thalidomide is not FDA-approved for this
indication and they’re not going to be able to get this,”
Horton said. “My goal is to gain enough interest” to do
further studies, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  