-- Chevron Said to Expand Brazil Monitoring Amid Spill Lawsuit
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-09-17T17:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/chevron-said-to-expand-brazil-monitoring-amid-spill-lawsuit-1-.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is creating three
teams and hiring executives in  Brazil  to oversee risk and
containment at its Frade field as it challenges a ban on
operations and lawsuits because of a spill, a person familiar
with the hirings said.  The second-biggest U.S. oil company is hiring about 16
people in coming months for Brazil, including five executives,
said the person, who can’t be named because the hirings aren’t
public. The positions include managers for the teams, a deputy
country manager and an asset development manager for the
offshore Frade project where the spill occurred in November, the
person said.  The 3,000-barrel leak at Frade prompted federal prosecutors
to sue Chevron for a total of 40 billion reais ($20 billion) for
harming the environment, as well as environmental criminal
charges. The  San Ramon , California-based company voluntarily
suspended operations in Brazil in March following a second leak
at the field off the country’s southeastern coast.  Brazil will fine Chevron 35 million reais for the spill,
Magda Chambriard, the head of Brazilian oil regulator ANP, said
today in  Rio de Janeiro .  In August, a court ordered Chevron and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ,
owner of the rig used at Frade, to suspend all operations in the
country. Last week the ruling was upheld by the Superior Justice
Tribunal, the country’s second-highest court, and may be
appealed at the Federal Supreme Court.  ‘All Legal Means’  Chevron will “seek all legal means at our disposal” to
overturn the ban, the company said in a Sept. 12 statement after
the court order was upheld. Transocean said in a separate
statement it has many ways to contest the injunction.  Kurt Glaubitz  and Jim Craig, spokesmen for Chevron, didn’t
respond to e-mails and telephone messages seeking comment on the
hirings.  Frade is Chevron’s sole operating field in the country. The
company voluntarily halted about 60,000 barrels a day of output
at Frade in March.  Chevron gained 0.7 percent to $118.08 at 1:17 p.m. in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  