-- Chim Sao at Three Month High; Refining Margins Drop: Asia Crude
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-09-17T10:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/chim-sao-at-three-month-high-refining-margins-drop-asia-crude.html
Vietnam ’s Chim Sao oil sold at the
highest premium since June, even as margins from turning crude
into fuel products dropped to the lowest level in two months.  PV Oil Corp., Vietnam’s state-run oil-marketing company,
sold four cargoes of Chim Sao crude loading in November at
premiums of $4.80 to $5.20 a barrel to dated Brent, said three
people who participate in the market.  The buyers included  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Itochu Corp. (8001) ,
the people said, asking not to be identified because the
information is confidential.  PV Oil sold August cargoes for as much as $7 a barrel more
than the marker grades, two people said on June. 18.  Profits from processing a barrel of benchmark Dubai crude
into fuels such as diesel and gasoline priced in the regional
trading hub of Singapore averaged $3.96 during the last five
days, the lowest since July 10, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 30-day average is $5.41.  Angola ,  Africa ’s second-largest oil producer, will reduce
its crude exports in November to 52 cargoes, five less than next
month, according to a preliminary loading program obtained by
Bloomberg.  The nation plans to ship 50 million barrels, or 1.67
million barrels a day, the plan showed. This compares with 1.77
million in October.  Dubai Timespreads  Dubai crude’s  backwardation , when near-term shipments are
more expensive than later cargoes, decreased 5 cents. Spot
prices were $1.62 a barrel  more  than levels for cargoes two
months later, according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a
London-based broker.  The price difference is 71 percent wider so far in
September. An increasing backwardation signals strengthening
demand from refineries for prompt crude amid tightening supplies.  The November Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps, which measures
the European oil’s premium to the Mideast marker, fell 15 cents
to $3.55 a barrel, according to PVM data. The December EFS lost
6 cents to $3.63.  Oman oil for November fell 60 cents to settle at $114.76 a
barrel at 12:30 p.m. on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange.  No Dubai partial cargoes were traded today, according to a
survey of people who monitor the Platts pricing window.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in  Singapore  at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  