-- China to Expand Insurance So Sick Don’t ‘Lose Everything’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-17T10:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/china-to-expand-insurance-so-sick-don-t-lose-everything-.html
China  will expand national health
coverage by roping in private insurers and include more major
diseases, as it seeks to close the mortality gap between rural
and urban residents while trying to contain costs.  “I’ve personally seen as a doctor how, under a system of
inadequate health insurance, patients’ families can lose
everything paying for the early stages of treatment,” Health
Minister Chen Zhu, a Paris-trained hematologist, told reporters
at a briefing in Beijing today. “When they run out of resources
for the later stages and for the patient’s maintenance, a
curable illness becomes untreatable.”  Chen’s comments build on earlier announced plans by China
to train more doctors, revamp public hospitals and cut medicine
prices to improve services and lower costs for a population
that’s aging and also becoming more demanding as disposable
incomes rise. Spending on health care in the country is forecast
to almost triple to $1 trillion by 2020, McKinsey & Co. said in
a report last month.  China also plans to expand the accessibility of essential
drugs, Chen said, without elaborating on the steps to be taken.
The nation will unveil an expanded essential drugs list before
the end of the year and hasn’t decided how many medicines to
include, the minister said Sept. 12.  The health ministry, which manages rural residents’ health
insurance program, plans to expand per capita funding to at
least 360  yuan  ($57) by 2015, from 300 yuan this year, it said
in a statement issued at the briefing. The amount climbed more
than eightfold from 2003 to 250 yuan last year and covered 812
million people, or 95 percent of the rural population, as of
June 30, 2012, according to ministry figures.  Disease Coverage  The ministry is also in the process of implementing
coverage of 20 major diseases, including child leukemia and  lung
cancer , under the insurance program, according to the statement.  Coverage by commercial insurers, now present in 140 county-
level regions, mainly in the country’s east and central regions,
will be available in more districts, Vice Minister Liu Qian said
at the briefing. China has 2,853 county-level districts.  “Based on global experience, it is not possible to fully
rely on basic medical insurance from the government,” Liu said.
“Opening it up to commercial insurance products can be more
effective.”  There are many advantages to private insurers managing the
coverage program, such as improving service standards and
supervision by the government, he said.  Improving Hospitals  China’s national public hospitals also need improvement in
their treatment of major chronic illnesses such as diabetes and
kidney failure, Chen said.  “A typical mid-term kidney patient needs to go for
dialysis three times a week, and it is not possible for those
living in rural areas to travel to the city hospitals,” Chen
said. “From what I have seen, out of the 2,800 county-level
hospitals, about 800 do not have a kidney specialist or blood
dialysis facilities.”  China has about 1.5 million patients whose kidneys are
damaged to the extent they require life-long dialysis or
transplants, according to  Shandong Weigao Group Medical Polymer
Co. (1066)  That number may double to 3 million in a decade, spurred by
diabetes, which damages the organs, according to the maker of
renal-care products based in Weihai City, Shandong Province.  China’s economic growth may slow as cancer and other
chronic diseases hurt the  labor force , Chen said in an earlier
interview.  The proportion of people who are 65 and older in China, on
the climb since 1990, is poised to continue rising, increasing
to 9.6 percent of the population in 2014, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Per capita annual income for both  rural
 and  urban  residents tripled in the decade to 2011, to 21,810
yuan and 6,977 yuan respectively, the data show.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  