-- China Needs to Build More Subways, Highways, NDRC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-18T05:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/china-planning-more-infrastructure-projects-ndrc-says.html
China  needs more subways, highways
and sewage plants, and construction of that infrastructure will
help the economy, a senior planning official said.  Xu Lin, head of the planning department at the National
Development and Reform Commission, told reporters in Beijing
yesterday that recently published approvals for projects only
represent part of what’s in the pipeline.  “In an economic slowdown, the government has to take some
counter-cyclical measures -- it’s absolutely normal, and it’s
part of macro-economic control,” Xu said at a forum at  Peking
University . “China still has large demand for infrastructure
projects.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao , who pledged last week to employ
monetary and fiscal policies to spur growth, has increased
infrastructure spending and refrained from introducing another
stimulus package, with fiscal support limited to tax cuts and
accelerated project approval. The economy grew 7.6 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier, the smallest increase
since March 2009.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.7 percent as of 1:10
p.m. local time, as tensions with  Japan  added to concerns about
China’s slowdown.  Xu’s comments come after the NDRC this month published
approvals for building as much as 2,018 kilometers (1,254 miles)
of roads and subway projects across the country. Nomura Holdings
Inc. estimated the total value of projects approved at about 1
trillion  yuan  ($158 billion). The NDRC has also green-lighted a
slew of railroads, sewage-treatment plants, ports and
warehouses.  Easing Concern  China’s stocks yesterday fell the most in 10 weeks on
speculation the government won’t ease monetary policy as quickly
as anticipated. At least 12 banks and brokerages have cut their
gross domestic product forecasts so far this month, with UBS AG,
Morgan Stanley and Barclays Plc now predicting the nation’s
growth will sink to a 22-year low of 7.5 percent this year.  Xu said the accelerated project approval did not mean the
government is rolling out more stimulus. A 4-trillion yuan
package of tax cuts and state spending announced in 2008 stoked
inflation and sparked concern local governments took on more
debt than they can afford.  “These projects are already in our plan,” Xu said.
“Infrastructure is the backbone system for the national economy
and society. In the long-term, if infrastructure is good, it’s
helpful for overall efficiency.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  