-- China’s Stocks Drop Most in 10 Weeks on Policy Concerns
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-09-17T08:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/china-stock-futures-fall-on-economic-growth-inflation-concerns.html
China’s stocks  fell the most in 10
weeks on speculation the government won’t ease monetary policy
as quickly as anticipated and after Citigroup Inc. said the
economic growth slowdown will extend into next year.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. plunged 6.7 percent, leading
declines for property developers, after Chinese home sales
slumped.  China Cosco (601919)  Holdings Co., the world’s largest operator
of dry-bulk ships, dropped the most in seven weeks as Citigroup
cited slumping export demand in cutting its growth forecast.
Guangzhou Automobile Group Co., which has ventures with Japanese
automakers including Toyota Motor Corp., fell to a record low
after Haitong Securities Co. said the company will suffer as
China boycotts Japanese cars amid a territorial dispute.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 2.1 percent to 2,078.50
as of the close, the most since July 9. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
declined 2.5 percent to 2,258.71. The Shanghai index jumped the
most in a week on Sept. 14 on the Fed’s plan to buy mortgage
securities to boost growth, known as quantitative easing.  “Investors are concerned about the speed of the economic
recovery and are still in a monitoring mode,” Zhang Yanbin, an
analyst with Zheshang Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Stocks were
dragged down by property stocks today because they are starting
to realize that along with the bad data, restrictions on
property wouldn’t be removed anytime soon.”  The Shanghai Composite had fallen 5.5 percent this year on
concern the government isn’t cutting  interest rates  or lenders’
reserve-requirement ratios fast enough to counter the slowdown
in the economy. It’s valued at 9.5 times estimated earnings,
compared with the 17.5 average since Bloomberg began compiling
the weekly  data  in 2006.  ‘Irresponsible’  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in  Hong Kong  decreased 0.5 percent today. The  Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, added 2.1 percent in New York.  The  Federal Reserve ’s economic stimulus plan will stoke
inflationary pressure, reducing the room for looser policies,
according to Industrial Securities, top-ranked for equity
strategy research by New Fortune magazine.  China needs to be more cautious with its monetary policies
as quantitative easing in the U.S. will create more pressure to
control inflation, the official Xinhua  News Agency  reported,
citing Lu Zhengwei, chief economist at Industrial Bank Co.  The Fed said on Sept. 13 it will expand its holdings of
long-term securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of
mortgage debt a month, known as quantitative easing.  Liu Mingkang , former chairman of China Banking Regulatory
Commission, said in an interview in Beijing on Sept. 15 the
latest round of quantitative easing is “irresponsible to the
U.S., and also irresponsible to us.” He declined to elaborate.  Growth Outlook  China Cosco led a slump for companies that ship goods,
declining 3.4 percent to 3.99 yuan, after Citigroup cut its 2013
economic growth forecast on weak external demand.  Cosco Shipping (600428) 
slumped 4.6 percent to 3.52 yuan.  “China will likely weather the QE3 well given it’s in the
early stage of the easing cycle,” Minggao Shen and Shuang Ding,
Citigroup analysts, said in a report dated Sept. 14. “The
challenge is in the longer term that loose liquidity conditions
may reignite the property price up cycle and the economy will
continue to be led by property investment growth. The mounting
inflation pressure going forward may weigh on China’s
rebalancing efforts in the future which are also inflationary.”  Policy Prospects  Citigroup lowered the country’s gross domestic growth
forecast to 7.6 percent from 8 percent, according to the report.
At least 12 banks and brokerages cut their 2012 gross domestic
product forecasts for China so far this month, with UBS AG,
Morgan Stanley and Barclays Plc now predicting growth will sink
to a 22-year low of 7.5 percent. Citigroup expects two more
reserve requirement ratio cuts this year and no rate cuts.  China’s central bank has held off from monetary policy
loosening since July 5 when it cut interest rates for the second
time in less than a month. It lowered  reserve requirements  three
times between November and May by 50 basis points each time.
Inflation that accelerated for the first time in five months in
August may limit any monetary easing.  “The A-share market will remain range-bound with a
negative bias until we see more stimulus measures to boost the
economy,” said Mao Sheng, an analyst for Huaxi Securities Co.
in Chengdu. “QE3 will help boost sentiment globally and reduce
 risk aversion  but there’s also concern how inflation will be
impacted in the long term.”  Hunan Corun New Energy Co., a nickel foam producer, was the
biggest decliner on the Shanghai Composite, plunging 10 percent
to 23.45  yuan . Liaoning Baike Group, which is involved in steel
product logistics, declined 7.8 percent to 5.30 yuan.  Japan Tensions  Property stocks fell today after China’s home sales
declined 4.7 percent in the week ended Sept. 14 in the 58 cities
tracked by CEBM Group, a Shanghai-based investment advisory co.
That was compared with the previous week.  Average home sales in 58 cities plunged 13.6 percent in the
first two weeks of September as compared to the same period last
month, according to the statement.  A  gauge of property stocks  in the Shanghai Composite sank
the most since Aug. 2. Poly Real Estate, the second-biggest
developer, fell 6.7 percent to 9.71 yuan, the biggest drop since
Aug. 2. China Vanke Co. the largest developer, retreated 3.4
percent to 8.06 yuan.  A territorial dispute between China and Japan worsened as
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said he’ll demand the Chinese
government ensure the safety of Japanese citizens, thousands
protested in Chinese cities and Toyota Motor Corp. and Panasonic
Corp. reported damage to their operations.  “This is another blow for the global economy,” said  Andy Xie , formerly Morgan Stanley’s chief Asia economist. “The costs
for China may be less FDI but it could be worse for Japan as the
bright spot for the economy has been the  auto industry .”  Buy Chinese Stocks  Guangzhou Automobile slid 6.1 percent to 5.53 yuan, the
lowest since it started trading in March. The company’s ventures
with Toyota and Honda Motor Co. account for a majority of sales
and earnings growth will not recover in short time due to Sino-
Japanese tensions, Haitong Securities said.  Chinese Vice President  Xi Jinping  appeared in public for
the first time in two weeks, ending an absence that fueled
speculation about his health and prospects for succeeding  Hu
Jintao  as the nation’s leader.  Janney Montgomery  Scott LLC is advising investors to buy
Chinese equities for the first time in two years on prospects
Premier Wen Jiabao’s pledge to boost investments and monetary
stimulus will support growth in the world’s second-largest
economy.  “We’re prepared to add as the evidence accumulates that
directionally they’re prepared to become more aggressive to
reflate economic activity,” Mark Luschini, the chief investment
strategist at Janney Montgomery, the 180-year-old Philadelphia
brokerage, said by phone on Sept. 13. “China has been reluctant
to act, so these forward-thinking actions have really been the
catalyst for the turnabout.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., added 4.5 percent last week to
$35.19, a one-month high.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  