-- Chrysler’s Marchionne Jilted Again by a North American Union
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-09-18T20:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/chrysler-s-marchionne-jilted-again-in-north-american-auto-talks.html
Sergio Marchionne , Chrysler Group
LLC’s chief executive officer, was jilted again in his bid to be
picked as the company to set the wage-and-benefit pattern in
contract talks with a major labor union.  The Canadian Auto Workers selected Ford Motor Co. and
reached an agreement the union now is seeking to impose on
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler. Last year, the  United Auto
Workers  selected GM to set the pattern, triggering an emotional
letter from Marchionne to UAW President  Bob King , saying, “I
know that we are the smallest of the three automakers here in
Detroit, but that does not make us less relevant.”  Now Marchionne is crying foul again. Chrysler said in a
statement that it’s “very concerned” about the CAW’s selection
of  Ford. (F)  “We don’t think they are in the best position to take
on this role given the significant reduction in their Canadian
footprint.” Chrysler makes more models in Canada than Ford,
which closed a factory in Ontario last year. Marchionne also has
taken a hard line, suggesting he may move work elsewhere.  “Sergio has developed a reputation for being less flexible
than his counterparts,” said  Harley Shaiken , a labor professor
at the  University of California  at Berkeley. “Certainly his
rhetoric is tougher. That may have had a perverse impact on his
goal. It isn’t exactly a welcome mat to being the target.”  Contracts Expiring  Contracts covering about 18,000 CAW members at GM, Ford and
Chrysler were set to expire at 11:59 p.m. yesterday. Ford plants
will continue operating while ratification votes are scheduled
for the weekend. GM and Chrysler negotiations are continuing,
CAW President  Ken Lewenza  said last night.  The automakers have said that their Canadian labor costs
are among the highest in the world, driven by the strong
Canadian dollar and higher wages for Canadian workers than for
their U.S. counterparts.  “Nobody in their right mind would continue to create an
unlevel playing field in its own organization,” Marchionne told
the Toronto Globe and Mail Sept. 7. “It’s impossible. We have
other plants, other options.”  The automakers had sought to make permanent a two-tier wage
structure in Canada, based on a similar agreement it reached
with the UAW in 2007. The CAW opposed two-tier wages and Ford
agreed to a 10-year progression from hiring to the full wage.  The tentative agreement between Ford and the CAW mostly
eliminates cost-of-living raises for workers and for retirees,
the union said in a conference call yesterday. Workers will get
C$2,000 ($2,050) lump-sum payments in lieu of raises and a
C$3,000 ratification bonus.  The union may have seen Ford as the best company to
establish a deal that all three companies can live with, Shaiken
said.  ‘Sergio’s Interest’  “The notion that Chrysler is the only appropriate target
certainly reflects Sergio’s interest, but not necessarily the
broader interests of the whole industry and the union itself,”
Shaiken said. “Sergio is a key actor, but he is not the
director of labor relations in  Canada .”  Canadian-produced models accounted for 28 percent of
Chrysler’s U.S. sales so far this year, according to researcher
Autodata Corp. of  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey . The  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based automaker produces its Dodge Grand Caravan and
Chrysler Town & Country minivans in Windsor, Ontario. It also
builds the Chrysler 300 and Dodge Challenger cars in Canada.  Made-in-Canada GM vehicles, which include the Chevrolet
Impala and  Cadillac XTS  sedans, accounted for 15 percent of its
U.S. sales this year through August, according to Autodata.  Ford’s Canadian-built models, which include the Edge sport-
utility vehicle and Flex wagon, have accounted for 7.5 percent
of its U.S. sales this year, Autodata said.  ‘Pivotal’ Negotiations  “These negotiations are pivotal in shaping the future of
the automotive landscape in this country,” Chrysler said in its
Sept. 16 statement. “Chrysler’s goal in these negotiations is
to develop an agreement that is conducive to long-term  job
security  in Canada.”  Fiat fell 4.3 percent to 4.53 euros ($5.91) at the close in
Milan. The shares have gained 28 percent this year.  Shaiken said he suspects Marchionne is uncomfortable with
the North American labor tradition of pattern bargaining,
especially since Chrysler hasn’t had the chance to establish the
economic framework for contracts in the U.S. or Canada. That
isn’t the tradition in  Italy , where Marchionne is also CEO of
 Fiat SpA (F) , which controls Chrysler.  “In Italy, Fiat is the only game in town,” Shaiken said.
“The pattern begins and ends at Fiat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan,  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  