-- ECB’s Coene Says Widening Spreads May Force Spain to Ask for Aid
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-09-17T23:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/coene-says-widening-spreads-may-force-spain-to-ask-for-aid-1-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Luc Coene said rising bond yields may force  Spain 
into asking for aid and submitting to the ECB’s conditions for
granting it.  If “markets see that Spain will not” ask for assistance,
“then it will not last long before spreads will rise again, and
then Spain will be somewhat forced to come back on its decision
and submit to the conditionality program,” Coene said at a
panel discussion in London yesterday.  Spanish bond yields climbed past 6 percent yesterday for
the first time since Sept. 7, the day after ECB President  Mario Draghi  gave details of the central bank’s new government bond
purchase plan. After falling to a five-month low of 5.55 percent
on Sept. 10, the yield jumped as much as 46 basis points to a
high of 6.01 percent yesterday, with Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  reluctant to seek aid.  Under the plan, the ECB would buy  government bonds  in
tandem with  Europe ’s bailout funds to stem rising borrowing
costs as long as countries asked for help and agreed to
conditions.  The Spanish 10-year yield reached a euro-era record 7.75
percent on July 25, before Draghi pledged the next day to do
“whatever it takes” to safeguard the monetary union.  Coene stressed that if Spain does not ask for assistance,
then “we will not buy its bonds.” The ECB would stop buying
immediately if countries reneged on their agreements with the
bank, he said.  ‘Profligate Governments’  Coene said many officials in the ECB were reluctant to
engage in bond purchases at all because “it enables profligate
governments” to keep up spending.  The only reason the central bank has started the Outright
Monetary Transactions program is because it buys governments
time and allows them “to take structural measures,” he said.  Coene said the bonds purchased would be marked-to-market,
rather than held to maturity, because in a few years it “could
well be that the market situation will be reversed and then we
might sell” the assets.  Bonds bought under the OMT will not have a preferential
status, Coene said. If “something happens we share the same
fate as private creditors,” he told his audience. “For the
future it is clear will not ask for preferential treatment.”  Asked if the central bank would ever consider outright bond
purchases, Coene, who heads the Belgian central bank, said that
it was “very unlikely, given the mandate and the treaty we
have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  