-- Credit Suisse Plans Transfer of More Data to U.S., Memo Says
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-09-17T09:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/credit-suisse-plans-transfer-of-more-data-to-u-s-memo-says-1-.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  plans to
transfer more data about its business with American clients to
U.S. authorities to help resolve a probe into whether the bank
helped customers evade taxes.  The documents will include e-mail correspondence with
clients domiciled in the U.S., internal e-mails about such
customers and the U.S. cross-border business in general from
June 2001 until March 2011, according to a memo from private-
banking chief Hans-Ulrich Meister to employees in Switzerland
today. Client-specific data were removed from the records, which
may contain the names of some employees, said the memo, the
contents of which were confirmed by a Credit Suisse spokesman.  Credit Suisse is informing staff after the transfer of data
to the U.S. earlier this year spurred criticism and lawsuits
from some employees, claiming it was illegal. Credit Suisse and
10 other banks being investigated in the U.S. were granted
permission by the Swiss government in April to comply with
information requests from the  U.S. Department of Justice  and the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Employees who think they may be affected by the transfer of
business records can obtain more information about them in
advance, according to today’s memo.  Legal Basis  “Credit Suisse verified the legal basis for the disclosure
of these business records to the U.S. authorities and consulted
the responsible Swiss authorities,” the memo said. “This
provided confirmation that the transfer is permissible. We are
also convinced that our cooperation with the U.S. authorities is
in the best interests of bank employees because it will help to
ease the situation and will pave the way for an amicable
solution with the U.S.”  Credit Suisse, HSBC Holdings Plc’s Swiss unit and Julius
Baer Group Ltd. have said they expect to pay fines to resolve
the tax matter with the U.S.  The previous data transfer included documentation about
internal policies, projects, correspondence and minutes of
meetings, which may have contained the names of some employees
at all levels of the hierarchy, Credit Suisse said. There was no
transfer of personnel files or lists of employee names drawn up
specifically for the purpose, the Zurich-based bank said.  “We are committed to resolving the matter as swiftly as
possible and wish to assure you that we will do our utmost to
safeguard the rights of employees,” Meister, who is also the
head of business in  Switzerland , said in the memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 