-- Credit Suisse Price Target Raised by Morgan Stanley on Cost Cuts
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-09-17T14:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/credit-suisse-price-target-raised-by-morgan-stanley-on-cost-cuts.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  had its
price target raised by Morgan Stanley analysts, who cited the
second-biggest Swiss bank’s focus on cutting costs.  “We were struck by the change in narrative and gritty
focus by Credit Suisse to re-engineer their cost base materially
and reshape their model,” analysts Huw van Steenis and Hubert Lam said in a note today after a meeting with  David Mathers , the
bank’s chief financial officer. The analysts raised the price
target for Credit Suisse shares to 24.5 francs from 22 francs,
while maintaining an equal-weight recommendation.  Credit Suisse last year announced 3,500 job cuts to help it
save about 2 billion francs ($2.16 billion) in  annual costs  and
said in July it would pursue an additional reduction of 1
billion francs in costs by the end of 2013. The company will
“continue to look for further cost reductions across the
infrastructure of the bank,” beyond the announced targets,
Mathers said at an investor presentation in  New York  last week.  “Stagnating revenue pools in the investment bank and
wealth management is calling for a fundamental re-think on
costs,” the Morgan Stanley analysts wrote, adding that Zurich-
based Credit Suisse wants to shift to “continuous cost
cutting.”  The stock  rose  1.8 percent to 21.89 francs by 4:33 p.m. in
Zurich trading, on course for the  highest closing  price since
April. The shares are down less than 1 percent this year.  The bank plans to reduce costs in  wealth management  by 2
percent to 3 percent a year by reducing duplication and paring
investments in markets with no growth prospects, the analysts
said. Credit Suisse is about 50 percent to 60 percent through
with cost-cutting in wealth management, they added.  At the investment bank, about 70 percent to 80 percent of
the planned cost reductions are complete, the analysts said. The
bank is trimming about 20 percent of staff in fixed income and
in August eliminated about 30 percent of the European
investment-banking division, which advises clients on mergers,
acquisitions, stock and bond sales, the note said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  