-- Oil Drops Most in Eight Weeks as Price Falls $3 in Minute
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2012-09-17T21:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/crude-fluctuates-on-middle-east-tension-empire-state-index-drop.html
Oil declined more than $3 in less
than a minute as October options were about to expire, ending
the day with the largest drop in eight weeks.  Futures tumbled to $94.83 at 1:54 p.m. from $97.88 in the
same minute on a surge in volume. The price slipped earlier
after the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s general economic
 index , known as the Empire State Index, reached a three-year
low, indicating possible weakness in demand.  “Today it’s the price making the news, not the news making
the price,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York. “In the larger scheme of things, I
would go with the idea that this is profit-taking run amok.”  Oil for October delivery fell $2.38, or 2.4 percent, to
settle at $96.62 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Prices are down 2.2 percent this year. The decline was the
largest since July 23. Prices traded above $98 before the slump
that started shortly after 1:50 p.m.  Crude options for the October futures expired today. The
futures expire on Sept. 20.  Brent for November settlement fell $2.87, or 2.5 percent,
to $113.79 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  The most active October options in electronic trading on
the Nymex were the $98 puts, which gained $1 to $1.38 a barrel
with 2,920 lots trading.  Volume Surge  Trading volume stayed below 300,000 before picking up after
1:50 p.m. and rising to 633,000 at 3:44 p.m. The low early
volume, due to the Jewish New Year holiday Rosh Hashana,
contributed to the drop, said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
The three-month average volume is 536,000.  “Transactions in a low volume just sort of set this up,”
he said. Speculation that the U.S. government would release oil
from Strategic Petroleum Reserve also boosted prices, he said.  Jay Carney , the White House spokesman, said in e-mailed
comments that there is “no change” in oil reserve releases. He
said on Aug. 30 that the Obama administration is continuing to
look at all its options to make sure high  oil prices  don’t crimp
the global economy.  “I think it’s a combination of options expiration and Rosh
Hashana,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price
Futures Group in  Chicago . “My guess is that someone had an
order they had to fill before options expired and there’s light
volume because of the holiday.”  CME Group  CME Group Inc., owner of the Nymex, said it did not suffer
any technical issues as oil, gasoline and heating oil dropped on
the exchange, said Chris Grams, a spokesman for CME. Gasoline
and heating oil declined more than 2 percent.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission in  Washington 
will look into the decline and trading surge.  “When price and volume move so fast and so dramatically,
it raises our antennas immediately,” Commissioner  Bart Chilton 
said. “We need to get a quick visual on what happened and why.
In this sort of circumstance, I always want to know what the
cheetah traders -- the high-frequency traders -- were doing.”  Commissioner  Scott O’Malia  said the CFTC is contacting  CME
and IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to learn more.  Oil fell in trading before the late decline as
manufacturing in the New York region contracted more than
forecast in September and as the dollar gained against the euro.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index , known as the Empire State Index, tumbled to minus 10.41,
the lowest level since April 2009. Readings less than zero
signal contraction. The index covers New York, northern  New
Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  ‘Geopolitical Risk’  “The underlying economy has yet to be helped by all this
economic stimulus,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist
at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis . “We’re
probably going to need a new catalyst or else we’re probably
going to consolidate for several days. There’s enough
geopolitical risk to keep the market from breaking down.”  The euro fell as much as 0.4 percent to $1.3084 after
finance chiefs deadlocked at euro-area debt-crisis talks. A
stronger dollar reduces oil’s appeal as an investment
alternative. Oil advanced as much as 0.5 percent in intraday
trading on concern that protests in the  Middle East  would lead
to supply disruptions.  “Today’s price action appeared to highlight an unusually
nervous market environment in which the oil complex has become
heavily reliant upon intangible forces such as economic stimulus
measures and Middle East tensions for sustainable price
strength,” said  Jim Ritterbusch , president of Ritterbusch &
Associates, a Galena, Illinois-based consulting company, in a
note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Margot Habiby in Dallas at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  