-- Del Piero Embraces Pressure as Australia’s Biggest Soccer Import
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-17T07:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/del-piero-embraces-pressure-as-australia-s-biggest-soccer-import.html
Alessandro Del Piero said almost
two decades with record 28-time Italian champion Juventus have
prepared him for the pressure of being  Australia ’s biggest
soccer import.  A day after being greeted by about 500 fans at Sydney
airport, the former World Cup winner conducted his first news
conference in Australia since joining A-League team Sydney FC on
a two-year contract. The 37-year-old was introduced by club
chairman Scott Barlow as “the most important signing in the
history of football in this country.”  “I know there’s a lot of expectation, and I love that,”
Del Piero told reporters. “I played 19 years with Juventus, and
in Juventus you have to win every match, every year. All my life
I played to win and I’m here to win.”  Sydney beat competition from clubs in  England ,  Switzerland 
and  Scotland  to sign Del Piero, who became a free agent in May
after scoring 289 goals in a record 704 matches for Juventus.
He’ll get about A$2 million ($2.1 million) a season, making him
the highest-paid player in Australia’s four football codes,
according to the Sydney Morning Herald.  Del Piero fielded questions first in English and then
Italian at today’s news conference, saying that he welcomed the
challenge of trying to help grow the A-League, which replaced
the National Soccer League as Australia’s flagship competition
seven years ago.  “First of all I am here for Sydney FC,” Del Piero said.
“Then we hope about the A-League growing up, day by day. This
is hard work, but one of the objectives of all the people who
work in soccer.”  Marquee Players  Sydney has been a pioneer in bringing high-profile players
to the A-League. The club, which won the championship in 2006
and 2010, made former Manchester United striker Dwight Yorke its
first marquee signing in 2005 and also brought Brazilian World
Cup winner Juninho to Australia in 2007.  During his time with Juventus, Del Piero won six Italian
Serie A championships, one Champions League title and the
Intercontinental Cup. He also played 91 games for the Italian
national team and his 27 goals put him in a tie for fourth place
on the country’s all-time goalscorers’ list.  In 2004, he was named in the FIFA 100, a list of the 125
greatest living soccer players selected by Pele as a part of the
governing body’s centenary celebrations.  Del Piero will train with his new teammates for the first
time tomorrow. Sydney plays its final pre-season tuneup in five
days against the Newcastle Jets and opens the  2012-13 season  on
Oct. 6 against the Wellington Phoenix in  New Zealand .  Del Piero said he worked with a personal trainer and a
youth team for the past two months to maintain his fitness.  “I do everything I can to stay in better condition, now I
need to go with the team,” he said. “The most important thing
is to stay focused on the present. It’s a big change for me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  