-- Denmark’s House Prices Rose Last Quarter Amid Record-Low Rates
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-09-17T08:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/denmark-s-house-prices-rose-last-quarter-amid-record-low-rates.html
Danish property prices rose for the
first time in two years, adding to signs that the Nordic country
is emerging from its housing crisis, as record-low  interest
rates  feed demand for mortgages.  House prices  rose in the second quarter by 0.9 percent from
the three months through March to 11,057 kroner ($1,944) per
square meter, the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks said
today on its website. The number of days on the market until a
sale declined 4.4 percent, it said.  Denmark ’s housing bubble burst more than four years ago,
plunging the economy into a recession and triggering a regional
banking crisis. House prices had slumped 25 percent since their
2007 peak, and will on average sink 3.5 percent in 2012, the
government estimates.  Central bank Governor Nils Bernstein warned earlier this
year that Denmark’s housing market was oversold as buyers held
off in anticipation of further prices declines. Today’s data
suggest such speculation has ended.  “With the trends seen in the new numbers, there’s light
again at the end of the tunnel,” Niels Storm Stenbaek, chief
economist at the Danish Bankers Association, said in an e-mail.
“The housing market is now turning.”  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Denmark’s biggest lender and the owner of
the country’s second-largest mortgage bank Realkredit Danmark
A/S, rose as much as 1.3 percent and traded 0.5 percent higher
at 112.60 kroner as of 10:17 a.m. in Copenhagen. The move made
Danske the biggest gainer on Denmark’s benchmark OMXC20 index
after Vestas Wind Systems A/S.  Best Indication  On an annual basis, prices fell 6.4 percent, while the
number of days until a sale increased 13 percent, the
Copenhagen-based association said.  Danish  mortgage rates  are at record lows as investors
fleeing  Europe ’s debt crisis turned to the Nordic country, which
is backed by a AAA credit rating. Yields on  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ’s
one-year bonds mortgage sold to fund adjustable rate 30-year
loans fell to 0.35 percent in refinancing auctions that ended
earlier this month.  The figures are the best indication “in a long time” that
a recovery is under way, Nordea said today in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  