-- Differences Hamper New Turkish Constitution, Say Kurd Lawmakers
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-09-17T10:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/differences-hamper-new-turkish-constitution-say-kurd-lawmakers.html
A Turkish parliamentary committee
drafting a new constitution remains divided over key issues
including language rights, a Kurdish lawmaker said today.  The committee has only agreed six of the 38 articles
related to basic rights and freedoms, Gultan Kisanak, co-
chairwoman of the pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party, or BDP,
told a joint news conference with co-chairman Selahattin Demirtas in Ankara today.  Kisanak accused three other parties, including Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s  Justice and Development Party ,
of insisting that Turkish be the only official language, citing
concerns over national security or public order.  “If people will not be allowed to express their views in
their own mother tongue, how can this constitution be considered
liberal?,” Kisanak asked.  The government has allowed broadcasts and classes in the
once-banned Kurdish language. It has rejected demands for full
education in Kurdish over concerns that it may divide the
country along ethnic lines.  The parliament plans to finish drafting the constitution to
replace the current one, a legacy of the 1980 military coup, by
the end of this year.  The discussion will resume on Oct. 1 amid tensions over a
probe into alleged ties between some Kurdish lawmakers,
including Kisanak and Demirtas, and the outlawed Kurdistan
Workers’ Party, or PKK, which has intensified armed attacks in
the country’s Kurdish-dominated southeast since December.  Militant Embrace  Kisanak attracted criticism for the televised embrace of
Kurdish militants at a roadblock near the southeastern town of
Semdinli, bordering Iran and  Iraq , on Aug. 17.  Erdogan said parliament would meet its responsibilities if
prosecutors ask the legislature to lift the immunity of Kurdish
lawmakers and so allow their prosecution.  “Such a development will amount to a clear hostile act,”
Demirtas said today. “Then, we will be forced to give a
political response.” Demirtas did not detail what this might
entail.  Some Kurdish lawmakers, including Leyla Zana, have been
stripped of their legal immunity and served 10 years in prison
on charges of ties to the PKK in the past. Zana was re-elected
to parliament in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  