-- Don’t Stick Taxpayers With Underfunded Corporate Pensions
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-17T22:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/don-t-stick-taxpayers-with-underfunded-corporate-pensions.html
When Congress passed a
transportation bill in July, it included important changes to
rules governing corporate pensions. Unfortunately, these changes
will allow companies to underfund their pension plans, which
will cost taxpayers down the road.  As usual with bad pension policy, the rules involve a
complex accounting issue. In this case it’s “discounting,” the
process by which a pension actuary determines how many assets a
fund must have today to cover payments that come due in the
future.  For example, imagine that a pension fund owes a payment of
$105 in one year. If the fund applies a discount rate of 5
percent, it must hold $100 today for that obligation to be fully
funded.  Pension funds use discount rates matched to yields on high
quality corporate bonds in order to simulate the risk
experienced by corporate pensioners. As with a bond,
corporations are generally obligated to make their pension
payments in full unless they go bankrupt.  Corporate bond yields, like most  interest rates , have
fallen drastically in recent years. Low bond yields mean low
pension discount rates; and the lower the discount rate, the
more money a corporation must set aside to cover its pension
promises.  Corporations seeking to duck that responsibility found an
ally in Congress. Because pension contributions are deductible
from taxable income, higher pension contributions mean lower
corporate income tax collections for the  U.S. Treasury .  Changing Rules  So Congress changed the discounting rules, allowing
companies to choose discount rates based on a 25-year average of
corporate bond yields instead of using an average of just two
years. In other words, companies may now calculate their pension
funding needs in part based on bonds that traded in the early
1990s, even though similar yields are unavailable today.  Today’s low bond yields have made corporate pension
promises more expensive to keep. Allowing companies to ignore
this fact simply allows them to hide their pension costs and
create funding gaps. If a company remains financially healthy,
it will have to make bigger payments in later years to catch up,
which also means the corporate tax collections boosted by this
policy today will be lower in later years.  Meanwhile, companies that go bankrupt will tend to have
accrued larger unfunded liabilities. The bulk of those
liabilities are covered by the  Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. , a
federal agency backstopped by taxpayers.  The pension legislation also raised the premiums that
companies pay into the agency, which, in theory, should offset
costs to taxpayers. But Congress counted the increased premiums
as funds available to pay for highway construction, essentially
double-counting the money.  This relief of pension funding obligations will undermine
the solvency of pension funds in part to address a problem that
doesn’t exist. Companies protest that they can’t afford to
adjust to sharply falling discount rates. The costs they face,
however, are a mix of costs they should have been able to
control and costs they do control.  In the first category is any increase in unfunded pension
liabilities due to lower discount rates. It’s true: Given the
crashing bond yields of recent years, without relief, pension
funds would be told to start holding many more assets. But the
flip side of falling yields is that bond prices have risen
significantly.  Closing Gap  If a  pension plan  invested in bonds with maturities
matching its obligations -- that is, enough 10-year bonds to
cover the payments due in 10 years, and so forth -- the value of
its holdings should have risen enough to cover its added asset
needs. Only companies that chose not to properly match their
maturities are left closing a gap.  In the second category is the increase in the cost of
benefits that employees accrue going forward. Lower discount
rates will force companies to set aside more money as workers
earn benefits. That reflects a real rise in the cost of promised
pension benefits. Companies that find those costs excessive can
cut the benefits employees earn in the future. They may decide
that they prefer not to change pension terms but, as with any
other benefit, they should be prepared to pay more as costs
rise.  The Pension Protection Act and its predecessor, the
Employee Retirement and Income Security Act, were major
improvements to the security of retirement systems. The core of
these laws is the requirement that companies adequately fund
their plans so that workers and taxpayers are protected when
companies go bankrupt.  By weakening such requirements, Congress weakened employee
retirement security and increased the risk that taxpayers will
be on the hook to bail out underfunded pension plans. Congress
made a mistake. It’s not too early to begin drafting legislation
to fix it.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the Obama administration’s
 trade dispute with  China ;  Edward Glaeser  on Obama’s missed
chances for  long-term economic reform ; Adam Minter on  China’s
anti-Japanese riots ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on the  makers versus takers
election ; Shikha Dalmia on why  immigrants can’t save U.S. cities 
by themselves; Harvey S. Rosen on economic growth from Romney’s
 tax-reform plan .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 