-- Youku Tumbles as PBOC Rate Cut Doubts Sink ADRs: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-09-17T20:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/e-house-drops-as-pboc-rate-cut-doubts-sink-adrs-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities fell for the first
time in five days in New York after the central bank said it’s
placing a bigger emphasis on  price stability , raising concern it
won’t ease monetary policy as quickly as anticipated.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity  Index (HSCEI)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in New York retreated 1.7 percent to 92.36
yesterday, the biggest slump in eight weeks. Youku Tudou Inc.
tumbled the most two months and real estate service provider  E-
House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  dropped the most since May following a
report that the nation’s home sales sank. LDK Solar Co. declined
after its second-quarter loss widened.  The People’s Bank of  China  is focusing more on keeping
“overall  price levels  basically stable,” it said in a report
yesterday from Beijing. The authority has held off from
loosening monetary policy further after cutting  interest rates 
in June and July. The  Federal Reserve ’s third round of monetary
easing reduces room for China’s policy easing as it may add to
the nation’s inflation pressure, Industrial Securities Co. said
in a report yesterday.  “Most investors can feel China’s central bank hasn’t
actually added much funds into the market,” Jingyi Li, an
analyst at Harding Loevner LP, which manages about $19 billion
in global asset including emerging market equities, said by
phone from Bridgewater,  New Jersey  yesterday. “The Fed’s QE3
won’t help the Chinese economy a lot. Amid the overall weak
 market sentiment , we have to spot companies with strong
fundamentals that don’t rely on the government’s stimulus.”  China ETF Falls  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., retreated 1.3 percent
yesterday from a one-month high to $34.74. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  dipped 0.3 percent to 1,461.19 as European finance
chiefs deadlocked at debt-crisis talks and manufacturing in the
New York area shrank more than forecast.  China isn’t likely to step up policy loosening until
unemployment worsens, Industrial Securities analysts Wu Feng
said in a report yesterday. Investors should sell cyclical
stocks that have had “quick” rallies, he wrote.  Youku, a video website operator which completed its merger
with Tudou Holdings Inc. on Aug. 23, plunged 10 percent
yesterday, the most since July 17, to $18.76. It had gained 21
percent in a four-day increase.  Some projects started by Tudou prior to the merger still
need to be approved by Youku’s management, sparking internal
conflicts, the Shanghai-based IT Times  reported  yesterday,
citing an unnamed company employee.  Post-Merger Integration  “Tudou’s executives are feeling the effect of post-merger
integration,” Echo He, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC in  New
York , said in a phone interview. “There are not too many
mergers in the Chinese market and these are entrepreneurs who
aren’t often good at collaborating. The Tudou executives who
stayed are being asked to work at lower positions.”  Jean Shao, Youku’s director of international
communications, couldn’t be reached by phone after normal
business hours yesterday in Beijing.  American depositary receipts of Shanghai-based E-House
tumbled 9.8 percent to $5.08, the steepest loss in four months.  China’s home sales declined 4.7 percent in the week ended
Sept. 14 from the previous week in the 58 cities tracked by CEBM
Group, a Shanghai-based investment advisory co. Average home
sales in the cities fell 13.6 percent in the first two weeks of
September as compared to the same period last month, CEBM said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  LDK Drops, Suntech Gains  LDK, the world’s second-biggest maker of wafers used to
convert sunlight to power, yesterday reported a net loss of
$254.3 million for the second quarter, compared with a loss of
$87.7 million a year earlier, and an average estimate for a $182
million loss by three analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The Jiangxi, China-based company fell 3.2 percent in the
third day of declines to $1.2, the lowest level since it started
trading in the U.S. in June 2007.  Suntech Power Holdings Co., the world’s largest solar-panel
manufacturer, rose 6.6 percent to a two-week high of 92.7 cents.  The company will cut production capacity for solar cells to
1.8 gigawatts, the Wuxi, China-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Suntech said it had 2.4 gigawatts of annual capacity
in May when it released its first-quarter results. It didn’t say
when output would increase. The company isn’t reducing its 2.4
gigawatts of solar-panel production capacity.  “Suntech is cutting capacity which is a good step to deal
with the massive disconnect in the industry between supply and
demand,”  David Smith , portfolio manager of the Gabelli Green
Fund, said by phone from Purchase, New York.  New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU)  plunged 5.2
percent to $14.16, the biggest retreat since July 30.  The Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  lost 2.1 percent to 2,078.5
yesterday, the biggest decline since July 9. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of Chinese companies retreated 0.5 percent to
9,780.92 from a three-week high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  