-- The Right Is Wrong to Pin Obama’s Edge on Welfare State
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-09-17T22:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/the-right-is-wrong-to-pin-obama-s-edge-on-welfare-state.html
A lot of conservatives are
puzzled that polls show the presidential election is even
close, let alone that most show  Barack Obama  ahead. So
convinced are they that Obama has failed that they think he
ought to be out of the running.  This mystery is leading an increasing number of
conservatives to adopt a depressing theory about the future
of our country -- a theory that is fortunately false.  John Hinderaker, who writes for the conservative blog
Power Line, expressed it in a  recent post : “On paper, given
Obama’s record, this election should be a cakewalk for the
Republicans. Why isn’t it? I am afraid the answer may be
that the country is closer to the point of no return than
most of us believed.”  He continued: “With over 100 million Americans
receiving federal welfare benefits, millions more going on
Social Security disability, and many millions on top of
that living on entitlement programs -- not to mention
enormous numbers of public employees -- we may have gotten
to the point where the government economy is more
important, in the short term, than the real economy.”  ‘Tipping Point’  This explanation fits into a long tradition of
conservative skepticism about democracy. The underlying
idea is that the more people rely on the federal
government, the more they will support government activism
and the party that favors it. Whatever one thinks of that
activism, it’s a plausible idea -- just as it’s plausible,
though Republicans never say it, that defense spending
might promote an unhealthy interest in the  defense budget 
among the Americans who benefit directly from it.  More recently, many conservatives have expressed worry
that the growth in the percentage of Americans who pay no
federal income tax will make the electorate more supportive
of big government.  Paul Ryan  said as much  after a speech  at
the  Heritage Foundation  last year: “We’re coming close to a
tipping point in America where we might have a net majority
of takers versus makers in society and that could become
very dangerous if it sets in as a permanent condition.”  Mitt Romney  echoed the sentiment in a video secretly
recorded at a fundraiser and released Sept. 17, in which he
argued that the 47 percent of Americans who don’t pay
federal income taxes would vote for Obama “no matter what.”  As an explanation for electoral trends, though, this
theory doesn’t hold up.  One major reason for the growth of the federal
government in recent years has been that entitlement
spending per beneficiary has increased, and so has the
number of beneficiaries as people have retired. Yet senior
citizens -- who benefit from federal programs, on average,
far more than younger people -- have become more Republican
over that same period. They actually voted  for John McCain
over Obama  in 2008 by a slightly higher margin than they
did for  George W. Bush over John Kerry  in 2004.  In 2010, their Republican margin increased even more,
to a whopping 21 points. Pollster Scott Rasmussen told me
that in his latest poll, Romney still leads among seniors
by 19 points.  It’s true that Americans with low incomes -- more and
more of whom now receive  food stamps  and federally
subsidized health insurance -- have generally voted for
Democrats over Republicans. But in 2010, these voters
shifted toward Republicans even as food stamps,
 unemployment benefits  and the like continued to increase.  Conservatives have  even less reason  for worrying about
people who don’t pay federal income taxes. A major reason
that the number of those people has grown is that a
Republican-controlled Congress created, and the  Bush
administration  expanded, a tax credit for parents. If there
is any evidence that in recent years middle-class parents
have become more Democratic, relative to the general
electorate, I haven’t seen it.  A Handicap  So why is Obama doing so well in the polls, if
increased public dependency on government isn’t the answer?  For starters, the public at large isn’t as convinced
as conservatives that he has been a dismal failure. Most
people cut him some slack because of the economic crisis
that began under a Republican president and kept unfolding
as Obama took office. They know that the economy has
changed direction. Some people think the economy has done
about as well as it could have under the circumstances.  Another reason Obama is doing well might have to do
with the weakness of the Republican economic message.
Republicans dwell on the heroic entrepreneur held back by
taxes and regulation, which must be part of the story that
a free-market party tells. But most people don’t see
themselves in that storyline, any more than they see
themselves as dependents of the federal government. They
don’t see Americans as divided between makers and takers.  To the extent Republicans do, they’re handicapping
themselves.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
senior editor at National Review. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials,
columns and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how Congress has let
companies  shortchange pension funds  and on the Obama
administration’s  trade dispute with China ;  Edward Glaeser 
on Obama’s missed chances for  long-term economic reform ;
Adam Minter on  China’s anti-Japanese riots ; Shikha Dalmia
on why  immigrants can’t save U.S. cities  by themselves;
Harvey S. Rosen on economic growth from Romney’s  tax-reform
plan .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  