-- Heavy Rain, Winds Expected to Hit East Coast Tomorrow
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-09-17T19:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/heavy-rain-winds-expected-to-hit-east-coast-tomorrow.html
Tomorrow may start with
thunderstorms and rain in  New York  City and get worse, with
heavy rain and gusty winds sweeping into the Northeast as the
workday ends, the  National Weather Service  said.  A warm front that will spread scattered storms across the
city and its suburbs early in the day will be followed by a much
more severe system that may bring as much as 2 inches (5
centimeters) of rain and damaging gusts, said  David Stark , an
agency meteorologist in Upton, New York.  “If you happen to see a thunderstorm in the morning, that
is only the beginning,” Stark said by telephone. “The more
widespread, significant rainfall may not occur until later in
the afternoon or around sunset.”  A high-wind watch was issued for upstate New York, where
gusts as high as 60 miles (97 kilometers) per hour are possible,
according to the weather service. An alert for gusts of as much
as 50 mph was posted for New Jersey, eastern Pennsylvania and
Delaware and parts of Maryland.  Winds of that strength can toss trash around cans and patio
furniture and bring down utility lines, according to the agency.
Driving may also be difficult, “especially on bridges and
elevated roadways,” the weather service said.  These severe storms also have the potential to  disrupt air
traffic . Forecasters refer to New York, Chicago and Atlanta as
the golden triangle and had storms in those areas almost always
cause delays or cancellations.  Cold Front  The storm later tomorrow will be caused by a cold front
coming down from  Canada  that will mix with a weather system now
near  Texas , Stark said. The East Coast from New York through
parts of  South Carolina  has a 30 percent chance for severe
weather, according to the  U.S. Storm Prediction Center  in
Norman, Oklahoma.  As much as 1.5 inches may fall in  Washington , according to
the weather service.  Flood watches are currently in effect from West Virginia to
Alabama as heavy rain falls across the Appalachian Mountains. As
much as 4 inches are expected across most of the area and 5
inches may fall in parts of  Tennessee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  