-- ECB to Set Up Repo Database as EU Moves to Rein in Shadow Banks
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-17T12:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/ecb-to-set-up-repo-database-as-eu-moves-to-rein-in-shadow-banks.html
The  European Central Bank  plans to
boost oversight of trading in repurchase agreements by setting
up a transactions database amid a push by regulators to rein in
so-called shadow banking, a European Union document shows.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, raised
the plan at a meeting of European Union finance ministers and
central bankers in Nicosia, Cyprus, on Sept. 14-15, according to
the document, whose authenticity was confirmed by an EU
official. The database would cover the European market for
repos. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the
talks are private.  Barnier told the meeting that he is working on regulations
targeted at “key actors” in the shadow-banking system, in
particular money-market mutual funds, according to the document.  Money-market mutual funds merit particular attention
because of risks to their liquidity, Barnier told the meeting,
adding that he was “disappointed” that the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission had proved unable to agree on rules for the
$2.6 trillion industry, according to the document.  Repurchase agreements  are contracts in which one investor
agrees to sell a security and then buy it back at a future date
at a fixed price. They’re one of several shadow-banking
activities targeted by regulators concerns that they may be used
to evade a global clampdown on excessive risk-taking.  Lehman Collapse  A bankruptcy examiner’s report found that Lehman Brothers’
Holdings Inc., the lender whose collapse in 2008 sparked the
financial crisis, used so-called Repo 105 transactions to move
as much as $50 billion temporarily off its balance sheet to
convince investors it wasn’t carrying too much debt.  The Financial Stability Board has estimated that global
shadow-banking activities were worth about $60 trillion in 2010,
as much as 30 percent of the total financial system.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
plans to publish draft rules for shadow banks in November.  Barnier told the Nicosia meeting that the commission’s
proposals would chime with work being done by international
regulators and would include better oversight of the links
between banks and shadow banking.  He also said that the commission would publish a draft law
by the end of this year to  boost protection  of investors who
trade securities across borders.  -- With assistance from Gabi Thesing in  London . Editors: Patrick G. Henry, Peter Chapman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  