-- Medtronic Wants Drug Industry Partners for Alzheimer’s
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-09-17T20:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/medtronic-wants-drug-industry-partners-for-alzheimer-s.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  is seeking
pharmaceutical industry partners to couple the company’s pump
technology with Alzheimer’s medicines that may be more effective
if pushed directly into the brain.  “We have proof of concept and we’re looking for
partners,” said Lisa Shafer, director of CNS Drug Delivery at
Minneapolis-based Medtronic, in a telephone interview.  Less than 1 percent of the intravenous drugs are able to
cross the  blood-brain barrier , a natural layer of protection in
the vessels within the organ, Shafer said in a telephone
interview. A product that can deliver drugs straight into the
brain can yield higher and broader concentrations using 10-fold
to 100-fold less medication, she said.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and Eli  Lilly (LLY)  & Co. are
developing medication designed to cut the development of beta
amyloid proteins in the brain. The push into Alzheimer’s would
expand the scope of Medtronic technology that’s been used for
two decades to treat pain and spasticity, Shafer said. The
company last year announced a partnership with Lilly on a
Parkinson’s treatment, she said.  Medtronic fell less than 1 percent to $42.87 at the close
of  New York  trading. The shares have gained 22 percent in the
past 12 months.  The company has developed its own anti-amyloid medication
to use in preclinical and animal testing, though it would prefer
to collaborate with a pharmaceutical partner skilling
Alzheimer’s research, Shafer said.  Bypassing Barrier  “We’re pushing into the fluid surrounding the brain, which
bathes all the brain tissue, bypassing the blood-brain
barrier,” Shafer said. The approach avoids the blood vessels,
which can come under stress from the active antibodies, and can
develop a problem with leakage.  The technology isn’t one-size-fits-all, Shafer said. Some
patients, perhaps those with a genetic predisposition for
forming more amyloid plaque earlier in the disease, may need a
larger, more frequent drug doses. Other medications could also
be incorporated, including drugs to treat tau, the tangles that
develop in the brain, or anti-inflammatory therapies, she said.  “There are other shots on goal, other portions of the
pathological cascade” where drug therapy may help, Shafer said.
“We believe all of this will need to be optimized.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  