-- Egypt Pound’s Gradual Drop Subdues Devaluation Bets: Arab Credit
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2012-09-18T05:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/egypt-pound-s-gradual-drop-subdues-devaluation-bets-arab-credit.html
Egypt’s move to allow the pound to
weaken gradually in the last three months has helped relieve
investor concern that the currency’s decline will be disorderly.  One-year non-deliverable currency forwards strengthened to
6.9 pounds a dollar today, reflecting bets the pound will weaken
12 percent in the period, prices compiled by Bloomberg show. The
currency, which is subject to a managed float, lost 1 percent in
the three months to Aug. 31 to 6.1028 a dollar, as the nation
elected its first president since  Hosni Mubarak ’s regime was
toppled last year. One-year forwards fell to a record 7.95 a
dollar in June.  “When the currency is allowed to depreciate gradually, it
reflects increased confidence on the part of the central bank to
allow market forces to control its value as fundamentals
improve,” Nour Mohei-El-Din, assistant general manager for
treasury at BNP Paribas Egypt, said by phone yesterday. “That,
in turn, boosts investor sentiment and drives demand for pound-
denominated assets like NDFs and treasury bills.”  The yield on local-currency bills plunged to 10-month lows
at the most-recent sales as Egypt secured pledges for $4 billion
in financial support from Qatar and  Turkey  in the past six
weeks. The pound is down 4.5 percent since the start of last
year’s revolt, compared with drops of 9.1 percent in  Tunisia ’s
dinar and more than 15 percent for  India ’s rupee and  South
Africa ’s rand.  Confidence Back  Investor confidence in  Egypt  rebounded after the nation’s
new government restarted negotiations with the  International
Monetary Fund  last month for a loan of as much as $4.8 billion.
The talks are due to resume later this month, with an agreement
expected by the end of November, Prime Minister Hisham Qandil
said on Sept. 9.  The cost of insuring the nation’s debt against default for
five years plunged 320 basis points, or 3.20 percentage points,
to a one-year low of 403 yesterday, since Mohamed Mursi was
named president in June, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  “The change in FX policy which started in mid-2012 is
positive for foreign investors,”  Lutz Roehmeyer , a Berlin-based
 fund manager  at Landesbank Berlin Investment, which oversees 10
billion euros ($13 billion) including a “minor position” in
Egyptian bonds, said by e-mail yesterday. A “controlled”
depreciation “gives comfort for foreign investors, meaning they
stand to lose less than in uncontrolled fashion.”  Policy Change  The currency, which traded at 6.0898 a dollar yesterday,
will weaken to 6.48 a dollar by the end of September 2013,
according to the median estimate of four analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  The government has no plans to devalue the currency “at the
moment,” Qandil said in a conference call with investors
yesterday. Last month, he declined to comment on whether the
pound’s drop reflected a policy shift, reiterating the
government would maintain “proper management of the pound.”  The average yield on  one-year treasury bills  retreated 94
basis points, or 0.94 of a percentage point, this month to 15.01
percent at last week’s auction. Once an IMF agreement is signed,
T-bill yields may drop another 300 basis points in the following
year,  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch said last week.  ‘Not Enough’ Reserves  The  Finance Ministry  sold its first two-year floating-rate
bonds on Sept. 16 at an average yield of 15.39 percent, to be
adjusted every six months.  Egypt “can get away with some minor adjustments” to the
pound, Jean-Michel Saliba, a London-based economist at BofA,
said by phone yesterday. “The political process has bottomed
out and there’s more stability.”  A draft of the country’s new constitution will be ready by
the end of this month, then put to a public referendum, Qandil
said in August. Parliamentary elections will be held within two
months after approval of the charter, he said.  The nation’s  net foreign reserves , which rose the most in
three years to $15.1 billion in August due to financial support
from Qatar, are only sufficient for about three months of
imports, down from 8.7 months in December 2010,  central bank
data  show.  The weakening pound is “a symptom of the fact that
reserves are not enough to keep the pound at levels it was
before,” Said Hirsh, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London , said by phone yesterday. “The central bank doesn’t have
enough power to keep it at that, so it is allowing it to
gradually drop. Many investors would like to see some kind of
devaluation.”  Big Investors  Egypt may miss its 135 billion-pound ($22 billion) budget
deficit target for the year that ends in June, Finance Minister
Momtaz El-Saieed said last month. Still, the government, which
wants to double economic growth to more than 4 percent next year
according to Qandil, has signed investment agreements with
Qatar,  BP Plc. (BP/) , and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  valued at more than
$28 billion.  The premium investors demand to hold Egypt’s bonds over
similar-maturity  U.S. Treasuries  dropped 111 basis points last
month, the biggest decline since January 2009, to 445, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG Egypt Sovereign Spread Index.
That compares with a 10 basis-point monthly retreat for  the
Middle East average . Egypt’s spread was at 401 yesterday.  “Things are moving in the right direction,” BofA’s Saliba
said. “Big investors are coming in, and if they were expecting
a large devaluation, you would expect people to come after that,
and so far they’re not. So it’s a confidence measure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  