-- Leighton Jumps Most in Three Years as Plant Starts: Sydney Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-09-17T07:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/leighton-jumps-most-in-three-years-as-plant-starts-sydney-mover.html
Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI) , Australia’s
biggest builder, surged the most in three years in Sydney
trading after opening a delayed desalination plant and amid
speculation  Vinci SA (DG)  may buy assets.  The  builder , which is ultimately controlled by Madrid-based
Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA, surged 8.4 percent
at the close to A$17.05, the biggest gain since August 2009. The
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.3 percent.  The water plant in Victoria state has begun pumping at
about a third of capacity, ending delays that contributed to
Sydney-based Leighton falling about 50 percent in the past two
years. Vinci,  Europe ’s biggest builder, may be interested in
“certain activities” of ACS and it’s looking at Canada and
 Australia , its Chief Executive Officer Xavier Huillard said in a
Sept. 16 interview with Financial Times Deutschland.  The catalysts for Leighton “are the removal of risks
around problem projects and the potential for asset sales,”
said Graeme Carson, an analyst at Patersons Securities Ltd.
“You can realize the value in Leighton over the next nine to
twelve months just by having a clean year and removing some of
the balance-sheet risks.”  The company could also raise A$1 billion ($1 billion)
selling its NextGen high-speed data network, he said. ACS
controls Leighton through its German unit  Hochtief AG. (HOT)   The Victoria plant will be working at full capacity by the
end of the year, Leighton Chief Executive Officer Hamish Tyrwhitt said in a statement today. The builder also opened a
delayed Brisbane airport road to traffic on July 25.  Separately, Leighton affiliate  Macmahon Holdings Ltd. (MAH) 
halted its shares today saying it will update its earnings
forecast due to the deteriorating performance of its
construction business. Leighton owns 19 percent of the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  