-- Electrolux’s $100,000-Kitchen for Foodies to Fight Slowdown
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-09-17T14:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/electrolux-s-100-000-kitchen-for-foodies-to-fight-slowdown-1-.html
Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the world’s second-
biggest appliance maker, introduced a $100,000 kitchen range to
target an untapped $5.3 billion market for rich foodies with a
penchant for professional catering gear.  The Grand Cuisine range will be a niche business bolted on
to Electrolux’s 90-year-old catering equipment division and
targets a market valued at 4 billion euros, Chief Executive
Officer Keith McLoughlin said in an interview today in  London .  “This brings a halo effect from a brand standpoint to
Electrolux,” said McLoughlin, against a backdrop of USB-
equipped oven, vacuum packers and blast chillers. “We’re
talking very high net worth people with two or three homes. It’s
clearly intended to build and reinforce the brand.”  Electrolux is broadening its top-end offering as  Europe ’s
wider appliance market may shrink by as much as 2 percent this
year, the CEO reiterated. Demand in  North America  is set to be
somewhere between flat and 2 percent growth. Some 50,000 homes
annually will be potential Grand Cuisine customers, and
Electrolux is looking for a three-year payback on its
investment, the CEO said, declining to give specifics.  Electrolux already has a presence in the ultra-luxury
segment, with the bespoke Molteni brand, starting at 21,000
euros and rising as high as 200,000 euros. Some 20 Molteni
stoves are sold annually. Grand Cuisine will remain a small part
of Electrolux, yet a profitable one, said McLoughlin, a 56-year-
old American who took over as CEO in early 2011.  Samsung, LG Gadgetry  While Whirlpool and other competitors like Miele & Cie.
don’t have a catering-equipment line, Samsung Electronics Co.
and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  are making in-roads among younger
appliance buyers in the U.S. who are accustomed to their
gadgetry in other areas.  “Samsung and LG have taken advantage of their  brand
recognition  particularly among younger consumers particularly in
consumer electronics,” McLoughlin said. “They’ve brought some
unique and fun interface technology and good designs, and
they’ve penetrated some markets. If you’re in the cooking
business, how much electronics do you want. They may be able to
put a TV in a refrigerator, but look how many they’ve sold.”  So far, Chinese manufacturers have made few inroads into
export markets, the CEO said.  USB Ports  London,  Stockholm  and Venice are three major markets being
targeted by Grand Cuisine, said Alberto Zanata, who as head of
Electrolux’s professional products division has overseen the
addition of the Grand Cuisine unit to the ranks of engineers
that until now specialized in catering equipment for chefs.  Workers at the Pordenone site, 50 miles from  Venice , have
adapted to Grand Cuisine specifications and design, where the
combination oven sports a USB port for uploading recipes as well
as a steam generator for sous-vide cooking.  “We expect this business to be a positive contributor, a
good high-margin profitable business, but it’s not going to be
that big relative to what we’re used to,” McLoughlin said.  Cutbacks  Elsewhere, the Swedish manufacturer is having to respond to
weakening markets by closing some of its 50 sites, and factories
in North America and Europe will be affected, McLoughlin
reiterated today. Its mass market brands include Frigidaire and
Zanussi.  “The global macroeconomic picture isn’t great,” the CEO
said. “We’re fine-tuning and making sure that we have the most
competitive asset base that’s needed to win in the market
place.”  Electrolux, whose bigger rival is  Benton Harbor , Michigan-
based  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , has  gained  56 percent this year after
pushing through price increases in North America and Europe,
making it the best-performing stock in the period on the  OMX
Stockholm 30 Index. (OMX)  It fell as much as 3.3 percent today and was
down 2.4 percent at 171.6 kronor as of 2:18 p.m. in Stockholm,
valuing the company at 53 billion kronor ($8.04 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  