-- Telefonica Names Alvarez-Pallete as New COO in Revamp
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-09-18T07:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/telefonica-names-alvarez-pallete-as-coo-in-board-revamp.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  named Jose Maria Alvarez-Pallete as chief operating officer as part of a second
top management reshuffle in a year as Spain’s biggest telephone
company struggles to stem a slide in revenue in its home market.  Alvarez-Pallete, who was named head of Telefonica Europe a
year ago, now replaces Julio Linares, who had been at the
company for more than 40 years, Madrid-based Telefonica said in
a statement yesterday. Board member Eva Castillo, a former
Merrill Lynch & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive, is
replacing Alvarez-Pallete as head of the European business.  The stock has dropped 20 percent since the company, led by
Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta, announced top executive
changes in September 2011. Telefonica is losing customers in
debt-stricken  Spain  and is trying to cut its net debt that
amounted to more than 58 billion euros ($76 billion) at the end
of June. The company also said Santiago Fernandez Valbuena, the
CEO of its business in Latin America, will join the management
board while keeping his current position.  “Alierta is keeping all the doors open for his future
replacement with the appointment of Valbuena as a board member
and Castillo as head of Europe,” Banco de Sabadell analyst
Andres Bolumburu said by phone today. “This is a positive move
as it brings new blood to Telefonica’s management. Alierta
doesn’t want people to get too comfortable with their current
roles as the company faces extremely big headwinds.”  Telefonica today dropped 1.4 percent to 11.34 euros in
 Madrid  trading, valuing the company at 51.6 billion euros.  German IPO  Alvarez-Pallete, 48, has a degree in economics from
Madrid’s Complutense University and joined Telefonica in
February 1999 as a finance executive. In July 2002, he was
appointed CEO of Telefonica’s business in Latin America.
Linares, 66, will stay on Telefonica’s board, without holding an
executive role at the company, Telefonica said.  “Alvarez-Pallete seems to be moving upwards in the
hierarchy of Telefonica,” said Nuno Matias, an analyst at
Espirito Santo in Lisbon. “The move, however, doesn’t
necessarily mean he is going to replace Cesar Alierta as CEO.”  Telefonica is trying to set up an organizational structure
“which will be stable over time and ready to compete
internationally with guaranteed success in a highly demanding
environment,” the company said.  Asset Disposals  Telefonica is moving ahead with plans for an initial public
offering of its German unit after adding four banking advisers,
people with knowledge of the process said on Sept. 5.  Telefonica is discussing the sale of a 20 percent stake in
the O2 division for about 1 billion euros to 1.5 billion euros,
the people said at the time. The sale is part of Telefonica’s
asset-disposal program to help repay debt and protect its debt
ratings.  Castillo, the new head of the company’s European unit,
headed Merrill Lynch’s wealth management business in  Europe , the
 Middle East  and  Africa  until December 2009. Before joining
Merrill Lynch, Castillo worked for Goldman Sachs in the bank’s
international equity markets department.  The company in July suspended dividend payments, cut a
revenue forecast and slashed compensation for top executives
including Alierta in his most drastic response to Spain’s debt
crisis.  Spanish Crisis  Spain, which forecasts an economic contraction of 1.7
percent this year, is in its second recession in three years.
The country’s 25 percent unemployment rate is Europe’s highest
and Telefonica is struggling to compete with cheaper local
competitors such as  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s Yoigo unit and  Jazztel Plc. (JAZ)   About $42 billion in acquisitions over two decades in  Latin
America , which culminated in the $10 billion takeover of
Brazilian mobile operator Vivo Participacoes SA in 2010, made
Telefonica the most acquisitive Spanish company in the region.
In 1998, when Telefonica decided to suspend a dividend to
finance its expansion in Latin America, the company continued to
remunerate investors with bonus shares.  Yet, as debt increases and demand for phone services in
Spain shrinks, CEO Alierta has to unravel that strategy.  The phone operator is still studying different scenarios
for an IPO in Latin America and the timetable will depend on
which one is picked, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said this month. Telefonica is also trying to sell its
call-center unit Atento, the person said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  