-- Elliott Faults Lehman Brokerage’s Navigator Sale Plan
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-09-17T21:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/elliott-faults-lehman-brokerage-s-navigator-sale-plan.html
Elliott Management Corp. stepped up
pressure on defunct brokerage  Lehman Brothers Inc ., faulting a
plan to sell a major asset to billionaire  Wilbur Ross  for what
the hedge fund called an “artificially low” price.  Elliott, a creditor of the brokerage, said the 34 percent
stake in gas-tanker company  Navigator Holdings Ltd. (NVIGF)  is worth
more than $100 million and is being offered to W.L. Ross & Co.
without a proper bidding process because of a so-called poison
pill.  Trustee James Giddens should have challenged the poison
pill, designed to protect Navigator from a hostile takeover,
Elliott said in a filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  “The trustee could and should have demanded the details
behind the board’s adoption and selective enforcement of the
poison pill, lobbied other shareholders for support, challenged
the board’s refusal to waive the poison pill for other potential
buyers, and conditioned the sale on such an open waiver,”
Elliott said in today’s filing. “The trustee, it seems, did
none of these things.”  Elliott, based in  New York , asked a judge to deny Giddens’s
request to complete the sale. A court hearing is set for
Sept. 19.  Ross’s company, which already owns Navigator shares, has
agreed to pay about $110 million for the brokerage’s interest.
Giddens would be letting Ross raise its stake to 61 percent
without paying a premium for control, Elliott said.  ‘Rigorous Analysis’
S  “The agreement is the result of rigorous analysis, sound
business judgment and is the most efficient and fair way to
maximize the value of LBI’s shares in Navigator for the benefit
of all customers and creditors,” Jake Sargent, a spokesman for
Giddens, said in an e-mail.  The Lehman brokerage, which is liquidating separately from
its parent, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., hasn’t paid
institutional creditors anything from its $25 billion hoard
after four years in liquidation.  Elliott, the $20 billion firm founded by billionaire
investor  Paul Singer , demanded in June that Giddens sell
securities and pay an initial $3.2 billion soon. After Giddens
responded last week that Elliott is a “claims trader” and
doesn’t share other customers’ interests, two creditor groups
sided with the hedge fund.  Institutional Customers  Most of the brokerage’s retail accounts were taken over by
London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  along with the Lehman’s parent’s other
North American businesses. Transfer of the retail accounts to
other firms involved assets of $92 billion, or almost 90 percent
of all customer property in the brokerage, the Giddens spokesman
said. Institutional customers still awaiting payment have
allowed claims of $12.2 billion, Elliott has said.  The Lehman parent made its first payment of $22.5 billion
to creditors last April, about 3 1/2 years after filing the
biggest U.S. bankruptcy in history on Sept. 15, 2008. The
brokerage went into liquidation four days later.  Giddens, who also is liquidating the  MF Global Inc. (MFD) 
brokerage, reported in April that the Lehman brokerage
liquidation had cost about $733.5 million, including fees of
$202.3 million for himself and his firm.  The Lehman brokerage liquidation is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
parent’s case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings  Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  