-- Energy Week Ahead: Republicans Campaign Against ‘War on Coal’
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-09-17T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/energy-week-ahead-republicans-campaign-against-war-on-coal-.html
House Republicans  are set to play a
familiar theme this week before heading out to campaign for the
November election, trying to head off rules from the
 Environmental Protection Agency  to curb pollution.  In a string of votes starting last year, the House voted to
stop pollution standards on industrial boilers, on mercury
coming from  power plants  and on farm dust -- a regulation the
EPA did not even issue.  This week, members are scheduled to vote on a bill to stop
what Republicans label as President  Barack Obama ’s “War on
Coal.” The  measure  would prevent rules on  greenhouse gases  from
power plants, stop EPA officials from yanking already-issued
permits for coal mines, and mandate that ash waste from coal-
fired plants be regulated by states, not the federal government.  “The only way to prevent even more victims from this war
on coal is for Congress to step up and pass legislation to stop
EPA from abusing the  Clean Air Act ,” Michigan Republican Fred Upton, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said
last week in a statement. An energy subcommittee on Thursday is
also set to examine related legislation that would prevent the
EPA from finalizing a proposal to limit carbon-dioxide emissions
from new power plants.  Still, the Senate hasn’t approved any of the previous anti-
EPA measures, and the bill coming up this week is also destined
to go nowhere -- at least in this Congress.  That doesn’t mean the measure doesn’t have a purpose.  In industrial battleground states such as Missouri,  North
Carolina ,  Ohio  and Pennsylvania, the coal industry and related
outside groups have been running advertisements and events
blasting Obama’s energy policies. Coal is forecast by the Energy
Information Administration to account for less than 38 percent
of U.S. electricity generation this year, down from almost 50
percent five years ago, primarily because natural gas has
emerged as a cheaper alternative.  Television  advertisements  boosting fossil fuels such as
coal topped $153 million so far this year, according to an
analysis by the  New York  Times.  “If you don’t believe in coal, if you don’t believe in
energy independence for America, then say it,” Republican
Presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  said of Obama in an Aug. 14
speech in Ohio.  If Romney wins the presidency and Republicans pick up
enough seats in the Senate to take the majority, these so-called
“message bills” could be reconstituted as legislation.  “This is an indication of what the House majority would
do” if Republicans also controlled the Senate and White House,
Scott Slesinger, legislative director for the Natural Resources
Defense Council Action Fund in Washington, said in an interview.  ALSO WORTH WATCHING:  NUKE SAFETY: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commissioner Kristine Svinicki will be discussing safety issues Tuesday during a
conference at the Center for Strategic and International Studies
in  Washington . Nuclear Energy Institute CEO Marvin Fertel is
also scheduled to speak.  CYBERSECURITY: Miles Keogh, director of grants and research at
the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners,
will discuss how electricity generators and distributors can
best protect their networks from cyberattacks, Tuesday at NDN, a
 think tank  in Washington that supports clean energy, among other
issues. 