-- Hennes & Mauritz Sales Miss Estimates After August Heatwave
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-09-17T08:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/hennes-mauritz-sales-miss-estimates-after-august-heatwave.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , Europe’s
second-largest clothing retailer, reported third-quarter sales
that missed analyst  estimates  as a heat wave across parts of the
region kept shoppers away last month.  Revenue excluding value-added tax rose to 28.8 billion
kronor ($4.4 billion) through Aug. 31, Stockholm-based H&M said
today, missing the 29.8 billion-kronor average estimate of 19
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales at stores open at least a
year declined 4 percent in August, the company said, missing the
average estimate in an SME Direkt survey for 1 percent growth.  Germany, H&M’s biggest market, had the 12th-warmest August
since 1891 last month, while Spain and France also recorded
above-average temperatures. The heat caused difficulty for
fashion retailers at a time when they typically start
introducing ranges for the fall. Next Plc said last week that
sales in August and early September were “disappointing.”  “It was unhelpfully hot in August,” said  Anne Critchlow ,
a London-based analyst at  Societe Generale . “Monthly sales are
very volatile because the weather can be different year-on-year
and even the calendar can have an impact.”  H&M fell 2.2 percent to 241.7 kronor at 10:32 a.m. in
Stockholm trading, the  steepest intraday drop  since Aug. 28 and
the second-biggest decline in the OMX Stockholm 30 Index. The
shares have risen 9 percent this year,  underperforming  larger
competitor  Inditex SA (ITX) , whose shares have jumped 40 percent.  More Stores  Total sales for the quarter gained 6 percent, missing the
average estimate compiled by SME Direkt for 11 percent growth.  The total number of outlets increased to 2,629 as of Aug.
31 compared with 2,325 last year. The retailer has focused store
expansion on  Asia  and the U.S. to help offset a slowdown in
European  consumer spending  as the region’s economy edges toward
its second recession in three years.  H&M said the appreciation of the Swedish krona, mainly
against the euro, during the third quarter resulted in large
negative currency translation effects.  “While we expect third-quarter margin to be broadly flat
when the company reports later this month, we remain concerned
about the fourth quarter in particular where we expect to see
gross margin hit” by foreign-exchange shifts, Gillian Hilditch,
an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a report today.  The retailer will report third-quarter earnings Sept. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  