-- Merkel Leaves Door Open to Grand Coalition After 2013 Election
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-09-17T13:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/merkel-leaves-door-open-to-grand-coalition-after-2013-election.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel , saddled
with an unpopular coalition partner prone to contradicting her
euro policy, left the door open to a rerun of her first-term
alliance with  Germany ’s Social Democrats after 2013 elections.  Merkel, asked at a press conference in Berlin today about
her approach to the federal elections due in the fall of next
year, said that she couldn’t exclude a so-called grand coalition
with the main opposition SPD, even if she’d prefer a
continuation of her current government with the Free Democrats.  “As to the question of whether you can rule out a grand
coalition -- I say that you can’t rule it out,” Merkel said
during the 90-minute question-and-answer session. “But in any
event I won’t work to make it happen.”  Merkel’s comments underscore the political jostling one
year out from federal elections that will determine whether
Germany’s first woman chancellor and its first from the former
Communist east secures a third term. Merkel has begun to hone
her campaign themes of the euro-area crisis and Germany’s
unprecedented energy overhaul, while  Wolfgang Schaeuble  last
week signaled his willingness to stay on as finance minister.  While polls show Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led bloc to
be more popular than at any other time of her second term, the
FDP could yet sink her ambitions. With support at or below the 5
percent threshold needed to win parliamentary seats, the FDP’s
weakness -- if replicated next year -- would leave her unable to
form a parliamentary majority with the party at a time when
voters say they’d prefer a grand coalition.  Coalition Warning  Merkel’s refusal to rule out the SPD, while saying this
isn’t the alliance she wants, may be a warning to coalition
lawmakers as they question her policy on the euro-area debt
crisis in a bid to refloat their popularity. The comments may
also be directed at members of her own party, after two CDU
state leaders were quoted in today’s Bild newspaper speaking in
favor of grand coalition governments in times of crisis.  The chancellor warned CDU leaders against a debate on the
merits of a grand coalition,  Der Spiegel  magazine reported
yesterday. She aimed to push back on statements by Labor
Minister Ursula von der Leyen, a CDU member who expressed common
purpose with the SPD on pension reform, Spiegel said.  Merkel came to power in November 2005 at the head of a
grand coalition with the Social Democrats, with whom she
governed for four years before winning a majority with her
preferred FDP partner in September 2009.  The policy proposals that unite Merkel’s CDU and the pro-
business  Free Democratic Party  are “the biggest in the
political spectrum,” she said today. “That’s why I’ve striven
for such a coalition and that’s why I’ll do it again.”  SPD Debate  The SPD meanwhile moved to quell a debate on its leadership
contest, rebuffing reports that party Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel 
had bowed out of the race for the candidacy with  Peer Steinbrueck  and Frank-Walter Steinmeier -- all three of whom
were in Merkel’s first-term, grand coalition Cabinet.  Asked whether she “feared” an SPD chancellery candidacy
of Steinbrueck, her former finance minister who was instrumental
in saving banks, Merkel said that “fear is never good political
counsel.”  Asked about the differences between a grand coalition and
her alliance with the FDP, Merkel said “I can tell you very
simply: In a grand coalition, there’s always another partner
that wants to have the chancellorship.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  