-- Erste Group Slips From Six-Month High, Leads Czech Shares Lower
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-09-17T15:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/erste-group-slips-from-six-month-high-leads-czech-shares-lower.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  retreated from
its highest in more than six months, leading a drop for Czech
shares, as concern of a deepening economic slowdown in China
outweighed the boost from central bank measures to help lenders.  Austria’s Erste declined 1.4 percent to 466.20 koruna by
the close in Prague. The stock jumped 9.1 percent last week,
lifting its 14-day relative strength index to 75, above the 70
level that suggests to technical analysts an asset may be
overbought and poised for a decline. The RSI last traded at 71
today.  European stocks slipped from a 15-month high as Citigroup
Inc. cut China’s 2013 growth forecast to 7.6 percent from 8
percent and on speculation  China ’s scope for economic stimulus
is limited by the U.S. Federal Reserve’s quantitative-easing
program. Leaders meet this week to discuss  Europe ’s debt.
European Central Bank officials agreed to implement an unlimited
bond-buying program and the Fed unveiled a third round of asset
purchases last week.  “Investors are re-assessing the probability of the Chinese
government or central bank rushing in with a new massive wave of
economic stimulus,” Marek Hatlapatka, a stock analyst at Cyrrus
AS brokerage in Brno,  Czech Republic , wrote in a report today.
“The steps taken by Fed last week are seen as a potential
reason for China to delay its stimulus.”  The Czech Republic’s  PX (PX)  equity index, in which Erste has a
23 percent weighting, dropped 0.8 percent, retreating from its
highest since March.  Erste was the third -most traded  stock today in Prague. CEZ
AS, the country’s largest electricity producer, which was the
most active, slid 0.4 percent.  New World Resources Plc (NWR) , the
biggest Czech coking-coal producer, fell 1.6 percent to 92.01
koruna as Europe’s benchmark  coal  derivatives slid 0.2 percent
to $99.55 a metric ton in the Netherlands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  