-- ETFs Overtaking Swaps for Junk-Bond Speculation: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-09-17T15:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/etfs-overtaking-swaps-for-junk-bond-speculation-credit-markets.html
Exchange-traded funds are poised to
overtake credit derivatives by year-end as a way to speculate on
 junk bonds .  The value of corporate securities held by the five-largest
 junk ETFs  almost doubled in the past year to a record $31.4
billion, while the  net amount of protection bought or sold  on
the debt using the two current credit-default swaps indexes
declined 3 percent to $35 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The ETFs are growing at an average 5.2 percent monthly
pace this year, which would put assets at more than $36.5
billion by Dec. 31.  Trading in credit swaps has slowed as the market faces
regulation for the first time under the Dodd-Frank Act,
potentially making them harder and costlier to buy and sell. The
growth of junk-bond ETFs, which are listed on exchanges and
brokered like stocks, has accelerated since their inception in
2007 as investors seek a faster and cheaper way to trade debt.  “Product innovation is often the answer to regulatory
change and I don’t think it’s any coincidence that we’ve seen
this explosion of interest in fixed-income ETFs just at the
point at which CDS as a product and asset class comes under
pressure,” Will Rhode, director of fixed-income at research
firm Tabb Group LLC, said in a telephone interview.  Gaining Influence  Junk-bond ETFs, which have attracted 25 percent of high-
yield fund inflows since 2010 as measured by EPFR Global, are
gaining influence in a market where both securities and their
derivatives are generally traded off exchanges.  Even investors seeking to hedge against losses on the
securities have started using ETFs, with the number of shares
borrowed to bet against one run by State Street Corp. surging
almost three-fold from the end of 2011.  Credit swaps, created in the 1990s as a means for lenders
to protect against losses on corporate debt, gained popularity
in the past decade as a way to wager on gains without actually
owning bonds or loans.  With the  Federal Reserve  saying last week it will probably
hold its interest-rate target near zero through at least mid-
2015 and conduct a third round of bond purchases to stimulate
the economy, investors are gravitating toward the funds to boost
returns as demand for default protection diminishes.  Nordea, Getty  Elsewhere in credit markets, Nordea Bank AB, the Nordic
region’s largest lender, is planning its first offering in more
than 16 months of dollar-denominated, 10-year bonds. Getty
Images Inc., the photo archive, is said to be seeking $1.85
billion in loans to back its buyout by Carlyle Group LP.  The Markit CDX North America Investment-Grade index, a
credit-swaps benchmark tied to the debt of 125 companies in the
U.S. and  Canada , rose from an 18 month low, climbing 0.9 basis
point to 83.9 basis points as of 11:10 a.m. in  New York . The
index ended last week at 83 basis points, the lowest since March
2011.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings increased 2 to 120.2.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million.  PDVSA Bonds  Bonds of Caracas-based Petroleos de Venezuela SA, or PDVSA,
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, with 36 trades of $1 million or
more as of 11:13 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Nordea may sell subordinated notes as soon as today,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The
offering will be of benchmark size, typically at least $500
million.  The bank last issued 10-year dollar debt in May 2011,
selling $1.25 billion of 4.875 percent securities to yield 180
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds traded at 105 cents on the
dollar to yield 4.18 percent on Aug. 13, Trace data show.  Getty’s financing will include a $1.7 billion term loan B
and a $150 million revolving line of credit, according to a
person with knowledge of the transaction, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  Barclays Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Royal Bank of Canada,
Credit Suisse Group AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are
arranging the financing and will host a lender meeting Sept. 19
at 2:30 p.m. in New York, the person said.  ‘Meant to Work’  Trading volumes in the current version of the Markit CDX
high-yield credit swaps index have declined 20.2 percent from
last year, when an escalating  European debt crisis  sent debt
investors rushing to protect against losses, Barclays analysts
led by Bradley Rogoff wrote in a Sept. 14 report. The firm cited
data from the  Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. , which runs a
central credit-swaps repository.  The declines, they said, have resulted in part from
regulations being written to comply with the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act, which will require most swaps to be processed by
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or electronic systems
after the contracts complicated efforts to resolve the financial
crisis four years ago. The rules will increase costs for both
banks and money managers in the market.  “This is the way in which financial markets are meant to
work; adapt to change through innovation,” Tabb’s Rhode said.  CDS Disappointment  ETFs may eclipse credit-swaps indexes in debt markets in
part because a lot of traditional money managers have never
fully embraced the derivatives, according to Peter Tchir,
founder of New York-based macro strategy firm TF Market
Advisors.  “They’ve always looked for an alternative and been really
disappointed with CDS,” he said in a telephone interview.  ETF assets and shares outstanding have surged at the same
time that dealer inventories of the underlying bonds shrink to
the lowest in more than a decade, making it more difficult for
money managers to trade the debt.  Holdings of  corporate securities  by the 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the Fed have shrunk 81 percent to $43.8
billion as of Sept. 5 from the peak of $235 billion in 2007,
according to data from the central bank.  Pitched ‘A Lot’  “I’ve definitely had it pitched to me a lot” as an
alternative to holding cash reserves, Nancy Davis, director of
derivatives at New York-based AllianceBernstein LP, which
manages $230 billion of fixed-income assets, said of high-yield
bond ETFs in a telephone interview.  The funds are more appealing than credit swaps to
investment firms that haven’t set up legal protocols to trade
the privately negotiated contracts with banks or are restricted
from trading the derivatives, Davis said.  “They either have cash positions or they’re completely
invested in cash bonds, which aren’t always very liquid,” she
said.  Junk-bond investors have been emboldened by default rates
below historical averages. The global speculative-grade default
rate as measured by Moody’s Investors Service was 3 percent in
August from 1.8 percent a year ago, according to a Sept. 10
report. That compares with a historic average of 4.8 percent in
Moody’s data going back to 1983.  ‘Remarkably Steady’  “The rate of default has remained remarkably steady,”
Albert Metz, managing director of Moody’s Credit Policy
Research, said in the note. “As credit spreads continue to
narrow slightly, our forecast remains fairly benign” at 3.1
percent by year-end and 3 percent in August 2013, he wrote.  For investors not sold on the junk-bond rally ETFs also
provide an alternative for betting against the market. The
shares are easier to borrow than corporate bonds for use in
short sales, in which traders sell borrowed stock in a bet they
can profit from price declines.  The number of borrowed shares of State Street’s  SPDR
Barclays Capital High Yield Bond ETF (JNK)  climbed to a record 13.1
million on Aug. 30 from 4.75 million at the end of 2011,
according to Markit Group Ltd. The amount eased to 6.76 million
on Sept. 12 as speculation the Fed would unleash another round
of stimulus caused bearish investors to reverse bets.  Corporate holdings in the ETF, the second-largest of its
kind, climbed 43 percent this year to $12.7 billion, with the
fund returning 11.2 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Holdings in BlackRock Inc.’s iShares iBoxx High Yield
Corporate Bond Fund, the largest, surged 60 percent to $17
billion, returning 9.9 percent in 2012. That compares with
average gains of 12.6 percent in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
US High Yield Master II Index.  London Whale  Investors seeking a hedge against junk-bond losses also
were pushed to ETFs earlier this year after trades by a JPMorgan
trader distorted prices in credit-swaps indexes.  Bruno Iksil, who became known as the London Whale because
the size of his bets grew so large, fueled price disparities
between the derivatives benchmarks and the price of contracts on
companies within the indexes, market participants familiar with
the trades said at the time.  Such dislocations unique to  credit derivatives  may scare
away investors, according to Stephen Antczak, Citigroup Inc.’s
New York-based head of U.S. credit strategy.  “When you’re seeing big divergences in indexes from their
constituents, maybe that’s being driven by someone who’s not a
credit investor, maybe it’s an equity guy,” he said in a
telephone interview. “That’s what worries people. Those indices
can get whippy that are not necessarily driven by cash corporate
bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  