-- European Stocks Slip From 15-Month High; SSAB Tumbles
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-09-17T16:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/european-stock-futures-drop-amid-china-slowdown-concerns.html
European  stocks  declined from a 15-
month high as concern of a deepening economic slowdown in  China 
overshadowed optimism resulting from the  Federal Reserve ’s third
round of quantitative easing.  SSAB sank 6.9 percent as the Swedish steelmaker said demand
for strip products has been much weaker than expected. Hennes &
Mauritz AB slid 1.6 percent after third-quarter sales missed
estimates.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , which has resisted setting aside
money for a $2.2 billion tax bill in  India , fell 1.3 percent
after saying it may make a provision to cover legal risks.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipped 0.3 percent to 275.01 at
the close of trading. The equity benchmark has still climbed 12
percent this year, rising to the highest level since June 2011
last week, as European Central Bank policy makers agreed to
implement an unlimited bond-buying program and the Fed unveiled
a third round of asset purchases.  “With the adrenalin rush of last week’s Fed move now
wearing off, markets are looking for the next positive
catalyst,”  Richard Hunter , head of equities at Hargreaves
Lansdown Plc in London, wrote in an e-mail. “With indices
having posted decent gains in the year to date, investors may
sell into strength to lock in gains.”  National benchmark indexes fell in all of the 18 western
European markets, except  Belgium . Germany’s DAX slipped 0.1
percent, the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  declined 0.4 percent, while
France’s CAC 40 dropped 0.8 percent.  Fed Action  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Sept. 13 that the U.S.
central bank will buy $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities
a month, without a limit on the total or duration. The Fed also
extended its near-zero interest rate policy until 2015 and said
it will stay accommodative “for a considerable time” even
after the economy strengthens.  Citigroup Inc. cut its forecast for China’s 2013 growth to
7.6 percent from 8 percent on weakening external demand.
Separately, the official Xinhua News Agency said China needs to
be more cautious with its monetary policies as quantitative
easing in the U.S. will create more pressure to control
inflation. Xinhua cited Lu Zhengwei, chief economist at
Industrial Bank Co.  Hong Kong  will limit the maximum term on all new mortgages
to 30 years in an effort to cool  home prices ,  Norman Chan , the
de-facto central bank’s chief executive, told reporters on Sept.
14. Mortgage payments for investment properties can’t be more
than 40 percent of buyers’ monthly incomes, from the current 50
percent, he said.  Island Dispute  Demonstrators took to the streets in a dozen cities across
China yesterday amid anger over disputed islands known as Diaoyu
in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese. Japanese Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  said he’ll demand China ensures the safety of
Japanese citizens.  “Chinese tensions with the Japanese are not helping,”
Hargreaves Lansdown’s Hunter said.  A report today showed  manufacturing  in the New York area
contracted more than forecast in September as orders shrank. The
Fed Bank of New York’s general economic index dropped to minus
10.41, the lowest since April 2009, from minus 5.85 in August.
The median forecast of 53 economists in a Bloomberg survey
called for minus 2. Readings less than zero signal contraction
in the so-called Empire State Index.  SSAB (SSABA)  tumbled 6.9 percent to 53.05 kronor, the biggest
decline since February. The steelmaker said demand for strip
products has been much weaker than expected in the third quarter
and warned that falling iron ore prices are expected to hurt
earnings in the first quarter of next year.  Steelmakers Slip  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s biggest steelmaker, slid 4.5
percent to 17.65 euros after UBS AG downgraded the stock to sell
from neutral. The rally in ThyssenKrupp’s shares following its
announcement of plans to sell its Steel Americas unit is
premature, according to Carsten Riek, an analyst at UBS.  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , the second-largest German steelmaker,
dropped 4.7 percent to 33.29 euros.  H&M (HMB)  declined 1.6 percent to 243.20 kronor as Europe’s
second-largest clothing retailer reported third-quarter sales
that missed analysts’ estimates after an August heatwave in some
parts of the region hurt business.  Revenue excluding value-added tax rose to 28.8 billion
kronor ($4.4 billion) through Aug. 31, the Stockholm-based
company said, missing the 29.8 billion-kronor average estimate
of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales at stores open at
least a year declined 4 percent in August.  Vodafone Falls  Vodafone, the world’s second-largest mobile-phone operator,
slipped 1.3 percent to 173.65 pence after Chief Financial
Officer Andy Halford said in an interview the company may make a
provision to cover legal risks relating to a $2.2 billion tax
bill in India.  Vodafone is consulting on the need for a provision after an
amendment by India’s government to its tax law made the company
potentially liable for the payment, Halford said. A decision
will be made by November, he said.  Vivendi SA (VIV) , Europe’s biggest media and telecommunications
company, declined 1.9 percent to 15.54 euros after the stock was
cut to sell from neutral at UBS.  Celesio AG, Europe’s largest drug wholesaler, slumped 5
percent to 14.06 euros as an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas
reduced his price estimate for the stock because cuts in U.K.
government reimbursement may lower profits.  Vestas Surges  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  advanced 8.3 percent to 39.53
kroner for the  biggest gain  in the Stoxx 600. A tie up of the
world’s biggest wind-turbine maker with Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries is more likely as Japan shuns nuclear energy,
according to SEB Enskilda. The deal may include a technology
share or an equity stake, the Nordic investment bank said.  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third-biggest platinum producer, surged 5.6
percent to 649 pence. Bishop Jo Seoka, who was assisting in
talks between the company and its workers, said staff have
agreed to lower their pay demands, without giving further
details. Lonmin’s Marikana mine has been halted by a strike over
pay since Aug. 10, in a dispute which has erupted into violence
and claimed at least 45 lives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  