-- Euro-Region Exports Decline, Adding to Slowdown Signs: Economy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-09-17T10:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/euro-area-exports-declined-in-july-adding-to-signs-of-slowdown.html
Euro-area exports declined in July,
adding to signs of a recession after the economy was pushed into
a contraction in the second quarter.  Exports from the 17-nation region fell a seasonally
adjusted 2 percent from June, when they gained 2.4 percent, the
European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today.
Imports slipped 1.2 percent and the  trade surplus  narrowed to
7.9 billion euros ($10.3 billion) from 9.3 billion euros.  European companies have seen waning demand as governments
cut spending to plug budget gaps and the global economy shows
signs of cooling. In the U.S., industrial output unexpectedly
fell in August by the most since March 2009. The  European
Central Bank  lowered its economic projections for this year and
next on Sept. 6 and reiterated its pledge to buy  government
bonds  along with the region’s rescue fund to help counter the
region’s fiscal crisis.  “Slower global growth is increasingly weighing down on
foreign demand,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist
at IHS Global Insight in  London . “This reinforces the belief
that the  euro zone  is headed for further gross-domestic-product
contraction in the third quarter given that growing exports was
one of the few positives” in the first half.  The euro traded at $1.3099 as of 11:23 a.m. in Brussels,
down 0.3 percent on the day. The single currency has lost 5
percent against the dollar over the past year. The Stoxx Europe
600 Index decreased 0.3 percent today.  Global Demand  German exports dropped 4.2 percent in July from the
previous month, while  Italy  reported a decrease of 4.5 percent,
today’s report showed. In France, shipments fell 0.2 percent.
 Greece  had a drop of 7 percent, while Spain and Portugal
reported gains of 1.4 percent. Irish exports advanced 1.5
percent from the previous month.  With companies seeking ways to lower costs and global
demand faltering, the euro-area economy will shrink 0.2 percent
this quarter after a similar contraction in the previous three
months, according to the median of 21 economists’ forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey. Economic  confidence  dropped in August and
manufacturing and service industries contracted. Unemployment
held at a record high of 11.3 percent in July.  The economy may shrink 0.4 percent this year instead of a
previously projected 0.1 percent, the ECB said this month. In
2013, GDP will probably rise 0.5 percent, half the pace
projected in June, it forecast.  ‘Difficult’ Environment  Exports to the U.S. rose a non-seasonally adjusted 12
percent in the first six months from a year earlier, while
shipments to the U.K. increased 7 percent, today’s report
showed. Exports to China and  Russia  surged 10 percent and 17
percent, respectively, while shipments to  Japan  climbed 16
percent. Detailed trade data are published with a one-month lag.  “We’ve seen a difficult economic environment over the past
months partly because of a waning global dynamic,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “The
situation will remain difficult in the second half.”  At a meeting late last week, European Union finance
ministers in the Cypriot capital of Nicosia were deadlocked over
the timetable for a more unified EU banking sector, with a
German-led coalition pushing back against a more ambitious plan
sought by France, Spain and Italy. The ministers also bickered
over the terms of bailout requests and the role of the ECB.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  sales chief Christian Klingler said on Sept.
13 that the Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker is “monitoring
the continued tense situation, particularly in Western Europe,
very closely.”  China Outlook  Elsewhere, China’s imports unexpectedly fell in August from
a year earlier and industrial output rose the least in three
years, reports last week showed. Japan’s economy expanded in the
second quarter at half the pace the government initially
estimated, underscoring the risk of a contraction.  Citigroup Inc. cut its forecast for  China ’s 2013 growth to
7.6 percent from 8 percent on weakening external demand.  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, industrial
production fell 1.2 percent in August, according to data on
Sept. 14. A separate report showed purchases cooled at retailers
excluding auto dealers and gasoline service stations. U.S.
employers added 96,000 workers in August after a 141,000
increase in the previous month.  Manufacturing in the  New York  area probably contracted in
September at a slower pace, economists said before a report
today. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s Empire State Index
is forecast to have risen to minus 2 from minus 5.9 in August,
with readings less than zero signaling contraction. The gauge
covers New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  The European Commission is scheduled to publish an initial
estimate for euro-area  consumer confidence  for this month at 4
p.m. on Sept. 20 in Brussels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  