-- Euro-Area Bailout System Delayed Moves, IMF Staff Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-09-17T22:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/euro-area-bailout-system-delayed-moves-imf-staff-says.html
The  International Monetary Fund ’s
cooperation with European institutions over bailouts in the euro
region often delayed decision making and at times excluded
measures that could have been discussed, according to a report
by the fund’s staff.  While the IMF’s work with the European Commission and the
 European Central Bank  on joint rescue packages for  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  has been useful and has improved over time,
it also added “a layer of complexity” to the design and
monitoring of conditions attached to the loans, IMF staff wrote
in the report released today in Washington.  “Institutional constraints in the euro area occasionally
limited alternative policy options that could otherwise have
been considered -- notably, debt restructuring to strengthen
debt sustainability,” according to the report, “particularly
for bank debt in Ireland and sovereign debt in Greece.”  Compared with traditional IMF programs, having several
stakeholders often resulted “in longer program discussions and
less effective decision making,” IMF staff wrote.  The report, which looks at IMF programs from 2002 through
September 2011, shows the tensions that exist within the so-
called troika at a time the fund may be called on to help
monitor countries as part of the ECB’s new bond-purchase
program. The “troika” of international creditors is made up of
the Brussels-based European Commission, the ECB and the IMF.  Greece’s Bailout  The fund’s report echoes the dynamics in the talks that are
under way among the three institutions as they decide whether to
disburse money to Greece under a second, 130 billion-euro ($171
billion) loan, said Thomas Costerg, a European economist with
Standard Chartered Bank in  London . The second bailout is beyond
the report’s scope.  The report suggests “the honeymoon of the European ‘menage
a trois’” is over, Costerg said in an e-mail. ‘It is difficult
not to relate this staff note to the broader context, which is
one of escalating tension as the deadline regarding Greece’s
next tranche approaches, while the on-the-ground inspection
mission seems to make little progress.’’  The system, which has the ECB sit alongside the IMF to
review implementation of the policies agreed, has been
criticized by officials including Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , who has said he’s worried that the fund’s room to
maneuver is constrained.  IMF Direction  “That’s not the traditional way the IMF operates,”
Flaherty told reporters in Washington in April. “Traditionally,
the IMF would direct what needed to be done.”  In past crises, including in  Asia  in the late 1990s, the
IMF and central banks sat on opposite sides of the negotiating
table.  According to the report, the size and duration of the ECB’s
liquidity support was among “sensitive items” that resulted in
“lengthy discussions.”  The report recommended that the fund build relationships
and mutual understanding with other institutions in good times
to eased collaboration in crisis periods. It cited assurances by
the central bank of the Eastern Caribbean Currency Union, also
the banking supervisor, as an example of cooperation.  Directors on the IMF executive board, who discussed the
report on Sept. 5, “expressed wide-ranging views on recent
high-access programs with euro-area countries” and “encouraged
staff to draw preliminary lessons from these cases in a timely
manner, including on coordination with troika partners and the
modalities of designing programs and conditionality.”  Loan Conditionality  The staff also said that the number and the nature of the
 measures  required for the loans in the euro region go against
its recent efforts to keep conditions few and targeted.  The commission tried to induce sweeping changes in some
countries, including in public administration, the judicial
system and the labor market, according to the report.  “While the assessment of the fund’s parsimonious
conditions is straightforward, the large set of European
Commission measures calls for a broad-based assessment of
implementation prior to authorizing a disbursement,” the
authors wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  