-- Newcastle Ties Everton in Final Minute After Two ‘Missed’ Goals
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-18T00:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/everton-ties-newcastle-2-2-as-official-fails-to-award-two-goals.html
Everton was denied the chance of a
win that would have lifted it into third in soccer’s Premier
League when match officials disallowed two goals and Newcastle
tied the score in the final minute to draw 2-2.  Demba Ba rescued a point for the Magpies at Goodison Park
in Liverpool last night after Victor Anichebe put Everton up 2-1
in the 88th minute. Anichebe earlier had a header ruled out even
though television replays showed the ball crossed the line and
Marouane Fellaini had another goal disallowed for offside.  “There’s two goals that have been missed and we can’t get
them back,” Everton manager  David Moyes  told his team’s
website. “Fellaini was onside for his and, if the linesman’s
job is to look along the line, you hope that they see the ball
cross the line,” for Anichebe’s.  The result lifted Everton two places to seventh in the 20-
team standings with seven points. Newcastle also climbed two
spots to 11th, with five points. Chelsea leads with 10 points
through four games. Manchester United is a point back, with
Arsenal and defending champion  Manchester City  on eight points.  Everton took the lead in the 15th minute. Leighton Baines
played the ball to  Steven Pienaar , who back-heeled a return pass
to the left back, who shot low across Newcastle goalkeeper Steve Harper from the left side of the penalty area.  Newcastle tied it four minutes after halftime. Yohan Cabaye
took the ball from Leon Osman in midfield and played it to Ba,
who scored with a low right-foot shot across Everton keeper  Tim Howard  after joining the game as a substitute.  Questionable Calls  Fellaini sent a low shot into the net from about six yards
(5.5 meters) in the 60th minute, only for assistant referee Ceri
Richards to flag for offside. Television replays suggested the
Everton midfielder was onside.  The same official failed to award Everton a goal in the
77th minute when Anichebe’s header rebounded off Harper and the
underside of the crossbar before crossing the goal line and
being hooked away by  Mike Williamson .  “I got a hand on it and got a bit of luck,” Harper told
 Sky Sports . “You need a bit of that. I didn’t have much luck
with the two goals, so what goes around comes around.”  Technology that can determine whether the ball has crossed
the goal line may be introduced by the Premier League midway
through this season, the British Broadcasting Corp.  reported 
July 6, a day after soccer’s rulemaking body, the  International
Football Association Board , approved its use.  Following IFAB’s decision, the Premier League said it would
seek to introduce goal-line technology “as soon as is
practically possible.” Such technology was tested in a June
exhibition between  England  and  Belgium  and will first be used in
a competitive tournament at December’s FIFA Club World.  Late Goals  Anichebe looked to have secured the victory for Everton in
the 88th minute. Pienaar collected a throw-in and played the
ball to the Nigerian striker, who turned in the penalty box and
fired a low shot past defender Steven Taylor and Harper.  The lead lasted less than two minutes. A long ball from
Newcastle’s own half was cushioned by substitute  Shola Ameobi  on
his chest into the path of Ba, whose touch was enough to take
the ball past the advancing Howard and into the net.  “To lose the lead in the last minute was the main
disappointment,” Moyes said.  The Premier League schedule continues Sept. 22 with six
games, including Chelsea at home against Stoke and Everton at
Swansea. Liverpool hosts  Manchester United  among four games the
following day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  