-- Ex-Penn State Coach Sandusky Will Be Sentenced Oct. 9
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-09-17T21:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/ex-penn-state-coach-sanduseky-will-be-sentenced-oct-9.html
Jerry Sandusky, the former
 Pennsylvania  State University assistant football coach convicted
of abusing boys, will be sentenced Oct. 9, a judge ruled.  Sandusky will be sentenced after a hearing the same day to
determine whether he is a sexually violent predator, Judge John M. Cleland in Bellefonte said today in a one-page order.  Sandusky, 68, was convicted in June of 45 criminal counts
tied to the abuse of boys over a 15-year period. He faces a
maximum of 20 years on each of the abuse counts, meaning he may
spend the rest of his life in prison.  The case against Sandusky led to the firings of university
President  Graham Spanier  and  Joe Paterno , who headed the
football program at  Penn State  for 46 years. Paterno died in
January.  Prosecutors last week asked Cleland to designate Sandusky
as a sexually violent predator. That status under Pennsylvania’s
Megan’s Law applies to a person convicted of sexually violent
crimes who, because of mental abnormality or personality
disorder, presents a high risk of recidivism.  Lifetime Counseling  The designation requires lifetime registration, community
notification and lifetime counseling, according to the state’s
Sexual Offenders Assessment Board.  During a two-week trial in June, prosecutors portrayed
Sandusky as a serial child molester who used the Second Mile,
the charity he founded, to recruit his victims, befriending them
and “grooming” them with gifts and money. Some of Sandusky’s
victims took the witness stand to recount their dealings with
the coach, both at his home and on campus. Sandusky didn’t
testify.  Two Penn State officials face a January trial over charges
they lied to a grand jury about a 2001 allegation involving
Sandusky and a boy in a football locker room shower. Timothy Curley, the athletic director at the time of the incident, and
 Gary Schultz , a former vice president in charge of campus
police, are also charged with failing to report the incident to
authorities.  Attorneys for Schultz today filed a request to sever the
case and try each man separately so as to avoid the admission of
a non-testifying codefendant’s confession in a joint trial.  Introduction of Curley’s grand jury testimony and
statements will violate Schultz’s Sixth Amendment right to
confront his accuser should Curley choose not to testify, Thomas
Farrell, an attorney for Schultz, said in papers filed in state
court in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 