-- Ex-Touradji Trader Crone Starts Citrine Commodity Hedge Fund
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-09-17T13:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/ex-touradji-trader-crone-starts-up-citrine-commodity-hedge-fund.html
Paul Crone, the former head trader
at Touradji Capital Management LP who left the firm in March
after seven years, has started a metals hedge fund in New York,
according to Citrine Capital Management LLC, his new company.  Citrine, located on the 34th floor of the Chrysler
Building, has a team of three led by Crone, who’s chief
investment officer, according to a statement. The fund will
trade listed derivatives in base metals, gold and platinum-group
metals, Crone said in an e-mail interview, declining to specify
how much money the fund has raised nor its target size.  Crone, 40, is among traders starting  hedge funds  this year
looking to profit from a bull run in commodities that began last
month as policy makers from  China  to the U.S. ramp up stimulus
to boost their economies. Commodity hedge funds tracked by the
Newedge Commodity Trading Index advanced 0.9 percent on average
in August, erasing the year’s loss.  Citrine hired Mike Connolly, formerly at HSBC Securities
USA Inc., as a trader, and Drew Ries, who used to work at
Susquehanna International Group LLP, as chief operating officer,
according to the e-mailed statement. Energy Alpha Strategies, a
London-based commodity-focused investment firm, is a so-called
strategic partner, it said.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index rallied 24 percent
from the year’s lowest close in June to Sept. 14, with gains
last week driven by the decision of the U.S. Federal Reserve to
embark on a third round of quantitative easing. Copper for
delivery in three months advanced to $8,411 a metric ton on the
 London  Metal Exchange on Sept. 14, the highest level since May
2, and traded at $8,339.75 today. Spot gold surged to a six-
month high on Sept 14, backed by record investment holdings.  Golden Gemstone  Crone named the fund after a golden gemstone that’s
believed to bring success and prosperity in countries including
China, where merchants and traders tend to keep them in their
cash drawers, he said. Crone travels to the top-metals consuming
nation several times a year for research, he said.  Assets under management at commodity hedge funds rose $1.11
billion to $84.14 billion at the end of July as investment
returns more than offset outflows from investor withdrawals from
May to July as prices of metals and energy fell, according to
the New York-based researcher eVestment|HFN. Crude in  New York 
slumped 18 percent in May, while copper tumbled 12 percent.  ‘Get Disrupted’  “I do expect investments to return to the commodity
space,” said Peter Laurelli, vice president of research at
eVestment. “Historically, we have seen investor interest for
commodity funds come in waves that get disrupted when there is a
broadly negative month or two.”  Crone left Touradji Capital in March as head trader of the
firm that managed $890 million at the end of 2011, according to
a  filing . He started his career in 1989 as a floor dealer on the
LME at Triland Metals Ltd., a unit of Tokyo-based  Mitsubishi
Corp. (8058)  He also worked at AIG International Trading.  Jean Bourlot, former head of commodities at UBS AG, helped
to found London-based Higgs Capital Management LLP, which trades
metals, energy and agriculture, with  Neal Shear , who spent 25
years at Morgan Stanley, according to an interview with Bourlot
in March. Taimur Hassan, who traded energy for Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., founded Frere Hall Capital Management, also in
London, according to filings to the U.K.’s Companies House.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  