-- Hezbollah Uses Anti-Islam Film to Fire Up Its Followers
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-09-18T08:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/hezbollah-backers-protest-in-lebanon-as-tunis-mosque-surrounded.html
Tens of thousands of supporters of
the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah filled the streets of
 Beirut  to denounce the U.S. for an anti-Islamic film.  Many waved the group’s yellow flag as they chanted,
“America, America, you are the greatest Satan” and “ Israel ,
Israel, you’re the enemy of Muslims.”  The protest yesterday followed a call by  Hassan Nasrallah ,
the chief of the pro-Iranian militant group. Making a rare
public appearance at the protest, Nasrallah told the crowds to
deafening cheers: “We will not remain silent over the insult to
our prophet.”  The film, which the U.S. has described as “very
offensive,” last week triggered violent demonstrations and
attacks on U.S. and European targets across the Muslim world.
U.S. ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens and three colleagues were
killed in an attack in Benghazi, while Muslim protesters in
Tunis and elsewhere died in clashes with government security
forces.  In Washington, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
said the protests in many instances were a test for the new,
elected leaders who have taken office in the wake of the Arab
Spring democracy movement.  Mideast governments have demonstrated “a lot of will to
protect us, but may have overestimated their ability,” Nuland
said. That has led to high-level conversations to address the
need to improve security, she said.  Fighting Extremism  “We can’t abandon these people now, particularly as
they’re facing extremism in their midst,” Nuland said. “That’s
all the more reason we have to work with them.”  Egypt  has taken steps to safeguard the U.S. Embassy in
Cairo, so “we are feeling much better about the security now,”
Nuland said.  The  U.S. Embassy  in Lebanon yesterday said it had received
reports indicating an increased possibility of attacks against
American citizens and urged them to take additional security
measures. In a statement posted on its website, the embassy said
dangers include kidnapping and “the potential for an upsurge in
violence.”  The Hezbollah protesters marched in southern Beirut, while
the U.S. Embassy is in a suburb north of the city.  Protests Continue  Nasrallah said the protests will continue until the film is
removed from the Internet and the people responsible for it are
held accountable. He said the U.S. should understand that the
broadcast of the film in its entirety will have “grave”
repercussions worldwide.  Nasrallah said Internet sites that broadcast the film
should be boycotted and that Islamic governments should pressure
the international community to issue laws that criminalize
insults to religions.  He said the failure of the Muslim community to act would
keep the door open for “new films and new insults.”
Yesterday’s protest is the beginning of a “serious” movement
to defend the  Prophet Muhammad , Nasrallah said.  Last week, the U.S. imposed financial sanctions against
Nasrallah for aiding  Syria ’s President Bashar al-Assad.
Hezbollah is designated a terrorist group by the U.S. and
Israel.  Lebanese President Michel Sleiman instructed Foreign
Minister Adnan Mansour to prepare a proposal for a law that
would be submitted at the  Arab League  that would criminalize
insults to religions, the official National News Agency said. He
said reactions to the film should be “peaceful and civilized,”
the agency said.  Tunis Standoff  Demonstrations were also held in  Asia . In  Indonesia , about
400 protesters clashed with police outside the U.S. Embassy in
Jakarta. Police fired tear gas when the demonstrators started
throwing rocks at officers outside the embassy, spokesman
Rikwanto, who goes by only one name, said by telephone
yesterday.  Police in  Pakistan ’s central city of Lahore resorted to
baton charging and fired tear-gas shells after protesters tried
to storm the U.S. consulate by scaling its main gates, according
to a telecast by Express TV.  In  Libya , the armed Islamist group linked by Libyan
officials to the killing of Stevens in the attack on the U.S.
consulate denied involvement, even as it blamed the U.S. for
allowing the release of the anti-Islamic film and failing to
evacuate its consulate.  Brigade’s Denial  “We completely and categorically deny involvement,”
Youseff El Gehani, spokesman for the Ansar al-Sharia brigade,
said yesterday in an interview at a Benghazi hotel. “The
embassy knew how sensitive it was to allow that film, they
should have evacuated. If America wants respect in the Arab
world, it should avoid spilling blood in places such as Syria
and  Afghanistan , and avoid insulting the prophet.”  Libya’s de-facto head of state, Mohammed Magariaf, said in
an interview that elements of the al-Sharia brigade were
involved in the consulate attack, citing intelligence intercepts
shown to him by U.S. officials.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  