-- Falkland Gas Find Heralds World’s Most Remote LNG Plant: Energy
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-09-18T14:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/falkland-gas-find-heralds-world-s-most-remote-lng-plant-energy.html
Falkland Oil & Gas Ltd. (FOGL) ’s discovery
of natural gas off the namesake South Atlantic islands shows
investors are betting that demand for the fuel will increase
enough to develop finds in the remotest corners of the planet.  Shares of the 247 million-pound ($400 million) explorer
gained 5.3 percent yesterday even after the company found gas-
bearing rock at the  Loligo well , rather than its target of crude
oil that can be easily exported worldwide. Gas requires
pipelines or multibillion-dollar factories to allow exports.  The gas find is the second this year off the archipelago
that  Margaret Thatcher  went to war to keep British in 1982 and
that Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  still
claims for her country. Falkland Oil said last year that a gas
discovery at Loligo may contain as much as 25 trillion cubic
feet, enough to build a liquefied natural gas terminal on the
Falkland Islands to export to markets in  Asia  and  Europe .  “It’s possible there could be enough gas in a number of
accumulations to make an LNG plant imaginable in the long
haul,” said Charlie Sharp, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity
Securities Ltd. in London. “It certainly would be the furthest
from a natural market I can think of.”  The Falkland Islands are 11,000 miles (17,800 kilometers)
from  Japan , the biggest LNG importer, and 8,000 miles from the
U.K., the largest buyer in Europe. By comparison, Japan’s
biggest supplier of LNG last year,  Malaysia , is less than 3,000
miles away. Qatar, the U.K.’s top supplier, is about 3,300 miles
from Britain.  Patagonian Squid  Loligo, located to the east of the islands and named after
a Patagonian squid, was targeting as much as 4.7 billion barrels
of oil, making it the second-most prospective well drilled in
the world this year, according to Morgan Stanley.  Borders &
Southern Petroleum Plc (BOR)  in July also found gas in waters south of
the islands.  While U.S. gas prices have plummeted to decade-lows, demand
in other parts of the world is booming. Japan’s plan to
eliminate nuclear power in the wake of the Fukushima disaster
last year will raise imports of LNG by as much as 16 percent in
the next eight years, according to Arctic Securities ASA.  Global LNG trade climbed 10 percent last year, according to
 BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy, and the biggest
growth was in Japan and the U.K. The world’s energy demand will
jump 39 percent in the next 20 years as growth in developing
economies accelerates, BP said in January.  Strong Market  The price of imported LNG to Japan has climbed 8.5 percent
this year to $18.07 per million British thermal units, according
to data complied by Bloomberg.  “Clearly they’d prefer to find oil,” said Laura Loppacher, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in  London .
“The key is that it’s potentially a very large volume of gas.
Particularly since Fukushima, LNG has an incredibly strong
market. It’s a question of whether this remote an installation
is feasible.”  Falkland Oil said in an investor presentation last November
that Loligo still has a strong commercial case if it’s a gas
discovery. It would require an LNG terminal to be build onshore
on the eastern side of the islands with an export capacity of
about 7 million tons a year, equivalent to a quarter of the
U.K.’s imports. Floating LNG production vessels may also be
viable for smaller discoveries, it said in the presentation on
its website.  The prospect of a new oil and gas province opening in the
South Atlantic prompted  Argentina  to warn that it considers
exploration off the Falkland Islands illegal. It won’t allow
ships from the Falkland Islands into its ports, meaning that all
supplies to develop and maintain an oil and gas industry may
have to come from Europe or the U.S.  Political Tensions  Still, the political tensions are worth the risks for some
oil and gas companies. Falkland Oil found partners this year in
 Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  and Edison SpA, a unit of  France ’s Electricite
de France SA. They will now move onto the Scotia well, where
they’re targeting about 1 billion barrels of oil.  Borders & Southern last month estimated that its Darwin
discovery may yield about 190 million barrels of gas condensate,
a light crude oil produced in association with gas. In 2010,
 Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH)  made the region’s first potentially
commercial oil discovery to the north of the islands.  Premier Oil Plc (PMO)  said it will buy 60 percent of Rockhopper
Exploration Plc’s Falkland assets and that it plans to invest $2
billion to produce the Falkland Islands’ first oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  