-- Falkland Oil Makes Region’s Second Gas Find With Loligo Well
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-09-17T15:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/falkland-oil-makes-region-s-second-gas-find-with-loligo-well-1-.html
Falkland Oil & Gas Ltd. (FOGL) , the
explorer focused on the namesake South Atlantic islands, made
the region’s second gas find this year at its Loligo well.  The well drilled through six reservoirs and encountered
gas-bearing zones over a 1,300-meter (4,265 feet) interval, it
said today in a statement in  London . The company wasn’t able to
determine how much of the discovery may be liquids. The shares
reversed initial losses of as much as 21 percent to close up 5.3
percent at 74 pence.  “While significant appraisal will be needed to assess its
commercial potential, we believe a liquefied natural gas
development could be economically viable,” Laura Loppacher, an
analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in London, said in an e-
mailed note. She lowered her price estimate on the stock to 115
pence from 195 pence.  Loligo, named after a Patagonian squid, was targeting as
much as 4.7 billion barrels of oil as well as being the second-
most prospective well drilled in the world this year, according
to Morgan Stanley.  Borders & Southern Petroleum Plc (BOR)  said in July
that it found gas, including some liquids, south of the islands
 Margaret Thatcher  went to war to keep British in 1982.  Falkland Oil and its partners  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  and Edison
SpA will now move onto the Scotia well, where they’re targeting
about 1 billion barrels of oil. Loligo will be plugged and
abandoned. The company will evaluate the well results further
and do more seismic surveys before drilling an appraisal well
near Loligo, it said.  ‘Sweet Spots’  “We now need to focus on reservoir distribution within
Loligo in order to find the sweet spots,” Chief Executive
Officer Tim Bushell said in a statement. The company will
“assess the resource potential and commercial viability of this
discovery.”  Falkland Oil secured partnerships with Noble and Edison
this year to share the costs and risks of drilling. The company
will have at least $200 million on its balance sheet after the
2012 drilling campaign, it said.  Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH)  found a potentially commercial
oil discovery north of the archipelago two years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  