-- Fed’s Lacker Says QE3 Won’t Do Much to Fix Labor Market
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-09-17T14:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/fed-s-lacker-says-qe3-won-t-do-much-to-fix-labor-market.html
Richmond Federal Reserve President
 Jeffrey Lacker  said the third round of quantitative easing, or
QE3, announced by the central bank last week probably won’t do
much to repair the U.S. labor market.  “The effects are very hard to gauge, but my sense is that
this is going to have a greater effect on inflation and a
minimal impact on jobs,” Lacker said in a Sept. 15 interview on
 National Public Radio .  Lacker was the lone dissenter to the Federal Open Market
Committee’s Sept. 13 decision to purchase $40 billion a month in
mortgage debt until the labor market improves and to hold
 interest rates  near zero until at least mid-2015. He has
dissented from every FOMC decision this year.  In a statement released by the Richmond Fed explaining his
dissent, Lacker said purchases of mortgage-debt should be the
responsibility of fiscal authorities.  “Such purchases, as compared to purchases of an equivalent
amount of U.S. Treasury securities, distort investment
allocations and raise interest rates for other borrowers,”
Lacker said in his statement. “Channeling the flow of credit to
particular economic sectors is an inappropriate role for the
 Federal Reserve .”  Lacker told NPR that he shares his colleagues frustration
with the weak economy and the  unemployment rate  which has
remained above 8 percent since February of 2009.  “It’s frustrating because of the elevated level of
unemployment and the human suffering and dislocation that
involves,” Lacker said. “And I think we all understand what a
lot of households are going through. I think we differ on the
efficacy of the tools we have available. And I think we just
need some patience right now on the central bank side.”  Lacker, 56, has been president of his regional bank since
2004. He was previously the Richmond Fed’s director of research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  