-- Fed Says Joblessness Would Be 7% With Less Consumer Doubt
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-09-17T19:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/fed-says-joblessness-would-be-7-with-less-consumer-doubt.html
The  U.S. unemployment rate  would be
around 7 percent instead of 8 percent to 9 percent without the
current level of doubt among consumers about economic issues
including fiscal policy, a Federal Reserve study showed.  “Uncertainty has pushed up the U.S.  unemployment rate  by
between one and two percentage points since the start of the
financial crisis in 2008,” Sylvain Leduc and Zheng Liu, who are
research advisers at the San Francisco Fed, wrote in a paper
released today. “The private sector responds to rising
uncertainty by cutting back spending, leading to a rise in
unemployment and reductions in both output and inflation.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  on Sept. 13 announced it
will hold  interest rates  near zero until at least mid-2015 and
purchase $40 billion a month in mortgage debt until the labor
market improves. The unemployment rate has exceeded 8 percent
for 43 months, Labor Department figures showed Sept. 7.  “We’re looking for ongoing, sustained improvement in the
labor market,” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a press
conference Sept. 13 following the FOMC’s two-day meeting.
“There’s not a specific number we have in mind. What we’ve seen
in the last six months isn’t it.”  Stocks rose after the Fed’s announcement as the central
bank’s stimulus bolstered demand for riskier assets. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced last week to the highest
level since December 2007. It slid 0.4 percent to 1,460.19 as of
2:46 p.m. today in  New York .  Bigger Drag  Consumers’ doubts about the economy may have been a greater
drag on the economy in the past few years compared to previous
recessions because policy makers had never run out of room to
lower the federal funds rate until 2008, Leduc and Liu said.
Doubt played “essentially no role” during the 1981-1982
recession and the subsequent recovery, when the Fed’s benchmark
interest rate was much higher, the authors’ analysis showed.  “Monetary policy makers typically try to mitigate
uncertainty’s adverse effects the same way they respond to a
fall in aggregate demand, by lowering nominal short-term
 interest rates ,” the researchers said. “Because nominal rates
cannot go significantly lower than their current near-zero
level, policy is less able to counteract uncertainty’s negative
economic effects.”  Leduc and Liu’s analysis also showed that greater
uncertainty leads to higher unemployment for at least three
years, while uncertainty’s impact on inflation is less
persistent. The three-month Treasury bill rate falls as a result
of heightened doubt, the authors wrote.  The paper used data from the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan Surveys of Consumers to track the level of doubt
reported by households.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  