-- Finmeccanica Left Out as EADS-BAE Merger Tests Alliances
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-09-18T09:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/finmeccanica-left-out-as-eads-bae-merger-tests-alliances.html
Within 24 hours of the biggest
merger plan in aerospace history being unveiled,  Finmeccanica
SpA (FNC)  executives hunkered down in  Rome  to consider the fallout.  Europe ’s third-largest aerospace and defense contractor
summoned advisers and strategic planners to the Italian capital,
where Finmeccanica is based, to study how the proposed $45
billion combination between  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD)  and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  would ripple through the industry,
people with direct knowledge of the meeting said.  The shakeup at two of its closest allies and rivals
coincides with Finmeccanica’s largest overhaul yet following a
record loss last year, a corruption probe, and a power struggle
with a former chairman. At stake is Finmeccanica’s future role
on the Eurofighter warplane and MBDA missile programs as well as
 Italy ’s position in defense electronics and  cyber security ,
where it would compete with the new industry leader.  “A potential merger should increase the sense of urgency
at Finmeccanica and amongst Italian politicians to implement the
restructuring and divestment plan and improve execution and cash
flow to improve Finmeccanica’s competitiveness in an even more
challenging environment,” said Rami Myerson, an analyst at  UBS
AG (UBSN)  in London.  A first review with in-house strategists was followed by a
second meeting over the weekend with external advisers for a
more expansive analysis, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the examinations weren’t public.  Moving Shares  Shares of European defense and aerospace companies
oscillated in the days after EADS and BAE announced their
proposed merger on Sept. 12 as investors studied the
consequences, with Finmeccanica falling 5.4 percent the next
day. Prior to today, the  shares  had fallen 2.6 percent since the
merger announcement. They slipped a further 1.4 percent to 3.8
euros as of 11:36 a.m. today, leaving the Italian company with a
market value of 2.2 billion euros ($2.9 billion), about a 10th
of EADS’s.  The Italian company responded with a statement on Sept. 13
that the planned combination presented an “important step in
the consolidation of the European defence industry,” and that
industrial cooperation between the three would continue. The
company declined to comment beyond the release.  Combining BAE and EADS, the parent of civil plane maker
Airbus, would leapfrog  Boeing Co. (BA)  as the world’s largest
aerospace company with sales nudging $100 billion and assets
spanning civil jets, warplanes and nuclear submarines.  Dreamliner Cooperation  Finmeccanica holds 25 percent in missile maker MBDA and
would see its minority role exacerbated if EADS and BAE, each
the owner of 37.5 percent, are brought together. In Eurofighter,
led by Italian-born Chief Executive Officer Enzo Casolini, the
combined EADS-BAE shareholding is 79 percent, with
Finmeccanica’s Alenia Aermacchi owning the rest.  The Italian company rejected a 2000 offer to buy a 5
percent stake in Airbus. Today, Finmeccanica cooperates with
EADS mainly in the ATR joint venture making turbo propelled
airliners. It also supplies components to Boeing’s 787
Dreamliner and worked on the Airbus A380 superjumbo.  Finmeccanica CEO Giuseppe Orsi has targeted 1 billion euros
in non-aerospace and defense asset sales to reduce 4.66 billion
euros of debt. The Italian state-controlled company is also
seeking to improve profitability by merging its defense
electronics units, which may support efforts to join European
industry consolidation.  ‘Insecurity’  “I can see that the prospect of EADS and BAE merging might
induce a sense of insecurity at Finmeccanica but I don’t think
they need to feel that way,” said  Nick Cunningham , managing
partner and aerospace analyst at Agency Partners in London.
“Still, they should start thinking about where the strategic
future is.”  Finmeccanica will probably focus on increasing ties with
rivals in Europe also left outside the new group, while joining
the merger is unlikely for competition reasons, Myerson said.
Finmeccanica’s AgustaWestland helicopters compete with EADS’s
Eurocopter businesses, the world’s biggest rotorcraft maker.  One “logical deal” would be combining Finmeccanica and
 Thales SA (HO) , Cunningham said. Neuilly-sur-Seine, France-based
Thales cooperates with Finmeccanica in making satellites and in
space services. While an outright sale to Thales would be
unlikely because of the Italian government’s reluctance to let a
strategic business fall into French hands, stronger ties between
the two companies may emerge, Myerson of UBS said.  Disaster Looming?  Italy’s Treasury holds a stake of about 32 percent in
Finmeccanica. Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is seeking to push
through measures to block takeovers of defense contractors and
other strategic state-controlled companies. The Italian
aerospace conglomerate in 2008 bought U.S. defense electronics
maker DRS Technologies Inc. to seek more contracts with the
Pentagon and be less dependent on the Italian  defense budget .  EADS’s proposed merger with BAE would mark the second time
in recent years that Finmeccanica risks being left behind in the
push for closer European ties. Two years ago, the French and
U.K. governments signed a cooperation agreement. While German
and Italian ministers have also discussed closer ties, a merger
between EADS and BAE would shift  Germany ’s focus to the U.K. and
 France  and potentially make it harder for Finmeccanica to win
business in those three countries.  A merger of EADS and BAE “spells disaster for the rest of
the industry that becomes even more sub-scale overnight,” said
Thomas Picherit, an aerospace and defense analyst at Alphavalue
SAS in Paris, who recommends investors buy Finmeccanica shares.
“This merger implies an agreement of the U.K., French, German
and Spanish governments. These governments are likely to bundle
their orders in the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  