-- Florida to Continue Hunt for Illegal Voters as Election Nears
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-09-17T22:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/florida-to-continue-hunt-for-illegal-voters-as-election-nears.html
Florida  will probably resume its
search for illegally registered voters before the presidential
election.  Secretary of State Ken Detzner halted the process in April
after county election supervisors complained about using only
driver’s license data to determine voters’ citizenship. Florida
requires residents to prove their citizenship before getting a
license or other state ID.  That information, the election
officials said, is not regularly updated.  The state is “very likely” to restart its search before
the Nov. 6 election now that it has access to federal
immigration data, said Chris Cate, a State Department spokesman.
The state will again flag potential noncitizens using driver’s
license data and check those names against information from the
U.S. Homeland Security Department.  “We’re going to treat these noncitizens just like we would
treat felons or any other ineligible voter we have a year-round
responsibility to identify and remove from the rolls,” Cate
said in an interview.  Florida, the biggest  electoral  prize among states viewed as
competitive by the presidential campaigns, identified 2,600
potential noncitizens on voting rolls at the direction of
Republican Governor  Rick Scott . That list has been reduced to
about 200 since the state received access to federal immigration
data, Cate said.  The state, which has about 11.5 million voters, will alert
voters who were improperly removed, or wrongly told they would
be removed, that they can vote, Detzner said last week. That
announcement followed a legal complaint by five groups,
including Florida Immigrant Coalition Inc. a Miami-based
nonprofit organization.  The state’s voter purge is also being challenged in federal
courts in Tallahassee by the U.S. Justice Department and in
Tampa by the  American Civil Liberties Union .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  