-- Former Wynn Partner Okada Calls Macau Donation ‘Suspicious’
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-09-17T20:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/former-wynn-partner-okada-calls-macau-donation-suspicious-2-.html
Kazuo Okada, a co-founder of  Wynn
Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  who is locked in a legal battle with his former
partner  Steve Wynn , accused the company of making a
“suspicious” $135 million donation to a Macau university.  Okada, who is suing to reclaim a 20 percent stake seized by
the casino operator, said today in a letter to shareholders
filed with regulators that investors have lost confidence in
Wynn Resorts’ management and  board .  The letter is the latest salvo in a battle between Okada
and Wynn that has spanned two continents and several courtrooms.
In the filing, Okada said the donation came as Wynn Resorts
sought approval for a third Macau casino. Okada also makes a
case in the letter for his two nominees to the board of Las
Vegas-based Wynn Resorts: Yale University professor Jonathan Macey and former CBS executive Fredric G. Reynolds.  Wynn Resorts said on Feb. 19 an investigation by its board
found Okada, 69, made gifts and other payments to Asian casino
regulators that made him unsuitable as an investor. The company
forcibly repurchased his shares at a 30 percent discount to
market value.  Okada, the founder and chairman of the Tokyo-based pachinko
company  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425) , has contested the
redemption. He is scheduled to appear for a deposition tomorrow
by Wynn Resorts’ lawyers, according to an Aug. 31 state court
filing.  In January, Okada filed suit in Nevada seeking access to
Wynn Resorts financial records, saying at the time he opposed
the donation to the University of Macau Development Foundation.  Wynn Resorts fell 0.5 percent to $112.47 at the close in
 New York . The shares have fallen 26 percent in the  past year .
Wynn Macau Ltd. rose 2.3 percent to HK$20.25 in  Hong Kong .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  