-- Forrest’s Fortescue Gets New $4.5 Billion Loan; Shares Surge
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-09-18T08:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/fortescue-gets-new-4-5-billion-facility-to-refinance-loans.html
Billionaire  Andrew Forrest ’s
 Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  got $4.5 billion of new loans,
fueling its biggest share jump in three years and easing concern
the company may need to sell assets or stock to pay debt.  The five-year facility, underwritten by Credit Suisse Group
AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co., extends the earliest repayment date
of the company’s debt to 2015, Perth-based Fortescue said today
in a statement.  Australia ’s third-biggest iron ore producer
began talks with banks to seek changes to loan terms as iron-ore
prices fell this month to near a three-year low.  The deal eases pressure on Fortescue to sell more assets or
undertake a share sale that would have diluted Forrest’s stake
and shores up finances strained as  China ’s slowdown pushed iron
ore prices down by almost a quarter this year. The company cut
jobs and its full-year spending forecast by 26 percent to $4.6
billion this month to bolster margins and horde cash.  “It will probably remove the need for them to raise
capital anytime soon,”  Chris Weston , an institutional dealer at
IG Markets, said from  Melbourne . “They’ve now got the
flexibility to sell non-core assets as and when they need it ”  Fortescue rose 17 percent to A$3.50 at the close of trading
in Sydney, the most since June 11, 2009, as trading resumed
after a halt on Sept. 13. That gave the company a market value
of A$10.9 billion ($11.4 billion).  Forrest’s net worth had dropped to $3.4 billion on Sept.
13, according to data compiled and calculated through the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . More than 97 percent of his wealth
is linked to shares of Fortescue. He bought $137 million worth
of shares in June and another $38.6 million in August.  Ore Prices  The company has also been boosted by a rebound in  iron ore 
prices, which have gained 18 percent this month. Ore for
immediate delivery at the Tianjin port in China rose 3.4 percent
yesterday to $105.1 a metric ton, the highest since Aug. 21.
They’ve gained on speculation steel mills will speed imports
because of  government spending  on infrastructure projects 
estimated by Nomura Holdings Inc at about 1 trillion-yuan 
($158 billion).  Fortescue, which had $9.1 billion of  debt  before today’s
statement, said Sept. 13 that it was in compliance with all its
banking covenants. The covenant issue would overhang the company
until cleared by a waiver, recovery in the iron ore price, an
equity raising or asset sales, National Australia Bank Ltd. said
in a Sept. 14 report.  Restrictions Removed  “This package effectively removes all of the restrictions
and all of the time pressure out of our balance sheet to allow
us the time and flexibility to finish our expansion and to ride
out any volatility in iron ore prices,” Chief Executive Officer
Neville Power said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Asia Edge” with Rishaad Salamat.  There’s no need “whatsoever” for an equity raising, Power
said separately on a conference call. The company, which signed
an agreement this month to raise $300 million selling a power
plant to  TransAlta Corp. (TA) , isn’t in any rush to sell assets now,
he said.  “We have a large number of those projects in the future
that we could introduce partners to,” Power said on the call.
“Underlying all of that is that we’ll only consider those
options if we get the true long-term value of those assets.”  Time for Forrest  The new loan, which removes earnings-linked covenants,
hasn’t been finally priced, Chief Financial Officer Stephen Pearce said on the call. The company expects “no material
change” in the costs of funds, he said, citing the company’s
unsecured bonds that traded at around 7 percent.  Forrest “has bought himself more time, but he still has
the problem of a lot of underlying debt,”  Glyn Lawcock , Sydney-
based head of resources research for UBS AG, said by phone.
“There are still a lot of unanswered questions, such as the
 interest rate  and additional liquidity that may be needed.”  Moody’s Investors Service said Sept. 4 that Fortescue,
rated at its third-highest junk grade of Ba3, remained under
review for a rating cut as a result of the drop in iron ore
prices. A rebound in iron ore to about $115 to $125 a ton will
“substantially reduce concerns around liquidity and covenant
pressure,” it said.  Australia Forecast  The new loan “will be sufficient to cover their working
capital requirement and obviously to repay those debts that were
associated with the covenants,”  David Lennox , a resources
analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney, said today by phone.  It
gives “them a needed cash injection and removes some of the
risks that they had in those projects,” he said.  Australia, the world’s biggest iron ore exporter, today cut
its price forecast for this year by 7.4 percent on concern that
a slowing economy in China, the largest buyer, will curb demand
growth. Prices will average $126 a ton in 2012, compared with a
June estimate of $136 per ton, the Bureau of Resources and
Energy Economics said in a report today. The steel-making raw
material may average $101 a ton in 2013, from $131 estimated in
June, the Canberra-based bureau said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  