-- France to Allow GDF Suez a 2% Increase in Retail Gas Prices
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-09-18T08:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/france-to-allow-gdf-suez-a-2-rise-in-retail-gas-prices-oct-1.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  will be allowed to
raise French natural-gas prices for households by 2 percent from
Oct. 1, less than a third of the increase it was seeking.  “The decision aims to protect consumer purchasing power,”
French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  and Environment
Minister Delphine Batho said yesterday in a joint  statement . The
government will ask parliament to overhaul the way regulated gas
rates are calculated, the ministers added. Before the decision,
Batho had said GDF Suez wouldn’t get the 7 percent it sought.  GDF Suez has long disputed rates with the government, which
owns a 35 percent stake and has resisted politically unpalatable
increases. France approved a 2 percent gain in August, which
regulators said should have been 7.3 percent because it wouldn’t
cover costs. While the utility is able to ask the regulator for
price changes every quarter, the decision lies with the state.  The company fell 1.9 percent to 19.635 euros by 10:03 a.m.
in Paris, bringing its drop for the year to 7.1 percent.  France  last week announced a draft law to make power and
gas more affordable for low-income families and energy-efficient
consumers. Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said last week the
number of low-income households eligible for reduced gas and
power rates would rise to 4 million under the planned law, from
1 million now. Parliament will debate the law from Sept. 26.  GDF Suez, based in Paris, took the former government to
court last year after being blocked from passing on supply costs
to consumers because of a freeze in prices. The court ruled in
favor of the utility, which then brought another case against
the government over an Aug. 1 cap of 2 percent on price gains.  Costs are calculated using a formula that includes oil and
 gas prices  from long-term contracts, as well as spot market
rates and fluctuations in foreign-exchange levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  