-- French Military, Weather Radars Are Wind Farm ‘Hurdles’
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-09-17T16:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/french-military-weather-service-block-wind-turbines-lobby-says.html
The French military and national
weather service are putting up “major hurdles” to wind parks
needed to boost renewable energy output, a lobby group said.  Concerns in the military that turbines interfere with radar
and at state forecaster Meteo  France  that they hinder wind and
flood forecasts have blocked an estimated 3,000 megawatts of
projects across the country, according to Syndicat des Energies
Renouvelables, representing renewable energy companies.  “It’s a big problem that we have to solve,” the industry
group’s President Jean-Louis Bal told reporters in Paris. The
lobby is seeking a parliamentary commission to study the issue.  France plans to get 23 percent of energy consumption from
renewables by 2020 compared with 13 percent at the end of 2011.
President  Francois Hollande  said last week that electricity from
wind and sun offer “huge potential” for clean energy and job
creation and he pledged to ease development regulations.  Meteo France is restricting the construction of turbines
more than the military, said Marion Lettry, head of the lobby’s
wind division. Concerns they block weather radar used to predict
floods may be overblown, she said.  “We realize there is a problem,” Christophe Maocec,
director of strategy at Meteo France, said by telephone. Radar
operators like the weather service have to be consulted about
plans for turbines within about 20 kilometers (12 miles) of
their installations.  In Conflict  “We have a public safety mission that is at times in
conflict with wind farm development,” he said. “It’s a fact
that turbines can interfere with radar measurements and this
creates issues in many countries.”  Wind park operators are counting on research into so-called
stealth blades that may allow deployment near defense sites,
civilian airports and weather stations, Lettry said.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the largest wind turbine maker,
said in June 2011 it had successfully tested a full-scale
stealth rotor on a turbine to lower radar interference. An
estimated 20,000 megawatts of wind power capacity is being
blocked by concerns about interference, it said at the time.  Deployment of  wind turbines  and solar panels has slowed to
a rate that means France won’t meet its 2020 installations
target, Bal said. “We will reach 17 percent or 18 percent of
energy demand if we continue on this route,” he said.  The  Defense Ministry  wasn’t immediately able to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  