-- French S&P Downgrade Was Upgrade in Investor Repudiation
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-09-17T08:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/french-s-p-downgrade-was-upgrade-in-investor-repudiation.html
By almost any measure  France  is a
more creditworthy borrower eight months after  Standard & Poor’s 
said it no longer merits a AAA rating.  The nation’s 1.07 trillion euros ($1.4 trillion) of debt
maturing in a year or more rallied 7.4 percent since it was
downgraded to AA+ on Jan. 13, more than double the gains for the
rest of the global government bond market, and beating AAA rated
Germany, the U.K. and Australia, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. Instead of rising, French 10-year  yields 
have fallen at a faster pace than those of bunds or Treasuries,
the historic havens in times of turmoil.  France’s performance shows investors have determined the
analysis done by ratings firms on the world’s biggest nations to
be irrelevant. U.S.  borrowing costs  tumbled after the biggest
economy was stripped of its AAA credit grade 13 months ago.
About half the time, government bond yields move in the opposite
direction suggested by new ratings, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes
going back to 1974.  “Ratings companies are losing credibility,” Shinji Kunibe, chief portfolio manager for fixed-income investment in
Tokyo at Nissay Asset Management Corp., which oversees the
equivalent of $66 billion, said in a Sept. 12 phone interview.
“Nations like France that are rated AA are regarded as totally
safe.”  Rating Cuts  When S&P cut the rating of France in January, along with
eight of its euro-region peers, it said policy makers were
failing to stem Europe’s debt crisis and that refinancing costs
for certain countries might remain elevated.  That hasn’t happened in France. President  Francois Hollande , who was elected in May advocating a shift from
deficit-cutting to growth policies, has seen the cost of
servicing the nation’s debt fall since he took office.  Yields on 10-year French bonds plunged to a record-low
2.002 percent on Aug. 3, from 3.08 percent at the time of the
downgrade. The drop is greater than German 10-year bund yields,
which fell to as low as 1.25 percent on Aug. 3 from 1.77 percent
on Jan. 13, and yields on 10-year Treasuries, which fell less
than 40 basis points, or 0.4 percentage point, in the period.  “The state borrows on the market at  rates  that are
historically low,” Hollande said in an interview on TF1
Television on Sept. 9. “I’m proud that France is among
countries that has the capacity to borrow at such low rates, but
we can’t just bank on this situation.”  Lower borrowing costs will cut debt-service payments to
47.4 billion euros this year, down from a Finance Ministry
estimate of 48.8 billion euros made in September 2011. That
compares with 46.3 billion euros last year.  French Yields  Hollande plans to freeze  government spending  in 2013. For
now he is hiring 60,000 school teachers, is preparing a tax of
75 percent on earnings over 1 million euros and has increased
the  minimum wage  by 2 percent.  French 10-year bonds yields were at 2.30 percent as of 9:03
a.m. London time, after rising six basis points last week. Debt
markets slid after Germany’s constitutional court said Sept. 12
the country can provide money to the 500 billion-euro European
Stability Mechanism, a rescue fund for the region’s most-
indebted nations.  Benchmark 10-year Treasuries yields have risen to 1.88
percent from 1.67 percent on Sept. 7 after the  Federal Reserve 
said it would purchase $40 billion a month in mortgage debt
until the labor market improves and hold  interest rates  near
zero until at least mid-2015.  Long View  The extra yield investors  demand  to hold French debt over
bunds, a way the market measures risk, is 60 basis points
compared with 131 on Jan. 13. Credit-default swaps on French
debt touched 96 basis points today, the lowest since July 22,
2011, and down from as high as 223 on the day of the downgrade.  “Ratings should be evaluated on the basis of their
correlation over time with defaults, not with short-run
movements in market prices,” Sharon Beach, a London-based
spokeswoman for S&P, wrote in a Sept. 12 e-mail. “Ratings and
market indicators of creditworthiness often diverge, because
they are generated by fundamentally different processes and can
be driven by very different factors, particularly in the short
run. They cannot be directly compared.”  No Trust  Eleanor Childs, a spokeswoman for Moody’s Investors Service
in London, said “while we’re aware that our ratings and
research might have a market impact, our ratings serve market
participants by reflecting our view of issuer creditworthiness
based on a range of fundamental credit indicators. In the case
of sovereigns, for example, we focus our analysis on an issuer’s
economic strength, institutional strength, financial strength
and its susceptibility to event risk.”  Ratings companies, whose judgments have in part determined
the cost of money for governments and businesses for more than a
century, are no longer trusted by the biggest investors after
helping ignite the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression by inflating grades on securities backed by subprime
mortgages, according to the former head of structured finance at
S&P.  U.S. Downgrade  “They’re there because people have to have them, not
because people believe in them,” David Jacob, who was fired in
December, said in a June interview at Bloomberg headquarters in
New York.  Predicting the consequences of a rating change by S&P or
Moody’s may be little different from  flipping a coin , with
yields moving in the opposite direction than suggested 47
percent of the time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Yields were measured after a month relative to U.S. Treasury
debt, the global benchmark.  S&P cut the credit grade of the U.S. one step to AA+ in
August 2011, criticizing lawmakers for failing to curb spending
or raise revenue enough to reduce record budget deficits. After
the Treasury Department said S&P made a $2 trillion error in its
calculations, the ratings company switched the budget
projections it was using and proceeded with the downgrade. S&P
denied it made a mistake and said using the government’s
preferred fiscal scenario didn’t affect the  credit rating .  Warren Buffett , chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said
after the S&P decision that the U.S. should be “quadruple-A”
rated. Buffett is the biggest shareholder of Moody’s.  Treasury Rally  There has been the “mother of all Treasury rallies” since
the downgrade, Michael Riddell, a London-based  fund manager  at
M&G Group Plc, which oversees about $324 billion, said in a
Sept. 12 phone interview.  Treasuries have gained about 5.5 percent since Aug. 5,
2011, according to Bank of America indexes, with 10-year yields
tumbling to an all-time low of 1.379 percent on July 25.  Moody’s said on Sept. 11 it may join S&P in downgrading the
U.S. to Aa1 from Aaa unless Congress next year reduces the
percentage of debt-to-gross-domestic-product during budget
negotiations.  “The agencies are responding to information that is
already in the marketplace,” Craig Veysey, head of fixed income
at Principal Investment Management Ltd. in London, part of
Sanlam Group, which oversees $72 billion, said in a Sept. 13
phone interview. “Market moves have already happened, which is
why you see the perhaps surprising changes in the behavior in
the bond price after the decision.”  Record Deficit  France, whose top credit grade has a negative outlook at
Moody’s and  Fitch Ratings , had a record trade deficit of 70
billion euros last year and unemployment is at a 13-year high.
The government hasn’t balanced its budget in three decades and
total debt will reach a postwar record of 89 percent of GDP this
year, according to the Washington-based  International Monetary
Fund .  Germany, rated AAA, has a surplus of exports over imports
and its debt ratio will drop to 79 percent from 82 percent,
according to IMF estimates in April.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second biggest carmaker, said
in July that it would close a car factory in France for the
first time in 20 years, and eliminates 14,000 jobs. Drug maker
 Sanofi SA (SAN)  may cut between 1,200 and 2,500 jobs in France,
according to estimates by the CFDT union. The company hasn’t
confirmed these figures.  ’Largely Symbolic’  “AAA is the absolute top benchmark and France does not
meet that criteria,”  Stuart Thomson , a fixed-income fund
manager at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow, Scotland, which
oversees about $119 billion, said in a Sept. 12 phone interview.
“S&P were saying France is not a AAA economy and so we should
downgrade it. The fact that market didn’t sell off does not
invalidate the decision itself.”  Austria’s bonds have also outperformed its AAA rated peers
after being cut in January. Its debt due in a year or more
returned 8.4 percent between Jan. 13 and Sept. 14, according to
the Bank of America indexes. In the same period bunds advanced
1.2 percent, U.K. gilts rose 1 percent and Australian debt
returned 5.3 percent. Global sovereign bonds have gained 2.8
percent since Jan. 13, according to the indexes.  “The movements of ratings at the very high end of the
scale are largely symbolic and don’t really tell investors
anything they don’t know already,” Mark Dowding, a senior
fixed-income portfolio manager at BlueBay Asset Management Ltd.
in London, which oversees $41 billion, said in Sept. 11 phone
interview. “Although the headline announcement of a ratings
change may have short-term impact on price action it doesn’t
really have any meaningful effect.”  Rating Curbs  European policy makers are taking steps to curb credit-
rating companies amid concern that some of their decisions
exacerbated the debt crisis. In June, European Parliament
lawmakers called for the European Union to start its own
assessments of governments’ creditworthiness, an idea Hollande
has advocated.  Moody’s and S&P adjusted the way they graded securities
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc., UBS AG and at least six more
banks pressured them, according to a U.S. Senate report last
year.  The companies made exceptions to rules when bankers asked
for higher ratings on some mortgage-backed securities, the
Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations said on April
13, 2011. When Moody’s and S&P downgraded hundreds of those
bonds in July 2007, it helped trigger the financial crisis, the
panel said.  Inconsistent Ratings  The lack of transparency and reaction time has prompted
Union Investment GmbH, a Frankfurt-based fund that oversees
about $237 billion, to formulate its own internal system of
ratings.  Union’s  UniInstitutional Global Government Bonds (GENINTE)   fund  will
start using the system on Nov. 1 for allocating funds. It rates
France as A, the sixth-highest level, along with the U.K.
Switzerland, Singapore,  Abu Dhabi  and Hong Kong have the top
grade of AAA. Germany is AA and the U.S. gets the eighth-highest
rating of BBB+.  “When ratings changes from the big three come out, you
don’t know what’s behind them,” Mauricio Vargas, an economist
at Union Investment who helped devise the system, said in a
Sept. 12 phone interview. “The decisions aren’t necessarily
wrong, they just aren’t always consistent with other calls they
are making. In the last few years they didn’t always fulfill the
task of a credit-rating agency.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  