-- Gasoline Sticker Shock Fuels Fiat Natural-Gas Auto Sales
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-09-17T22:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/gasoline-sticker-shock-fuels-fiat-natural-gas-auto-sales.html
For  Fiat SpA (F) ,  Italy ’s austerity
efforts have meant falling sales, stubborn losses and layoffs
for thousands of workers. One business, though, has benefited
mightily: the division that makes vehicles fueled by natural gas
and propane.  Deliveries of those cars in Italy surged 90 percent to
114,226 vehicles through August, accounting for 11.6 percent of
the market, compared with 4.9 percent a year ago. That’s good
news for Fiat, which says it has 90 percent of the market for
natural gas cars and 47 percent of the propane car market in its
home country.  The boom takes some of the sting out of the 20 percent
plunge in the Italian car market, to its lowest level in more
than 30 years. Fiat is determined to export its advantage to the
U.S., where regulatory changes are poised to boost interest. The
spread of natural gas and propane vehicles is critical for Fiat,
which has been developing the technology since the 1990s,
because it doesn’t have an advanced electric-vehicle strategy.  Cars powered by compressed natural gas or propane
(liquefied petroleum gas) have largely been a sideshow in the
push for cleaner cars. Lacking the futuristic allure of hybrids
and electric powertrains, the vehicles have failed to find
widespread adoption even though they’re as much as 23 percent
cleaner than gasoline engines.  A surge in pump prices for traditional fuels and belt-
tightening spurred by Italy’s shrinking economy is changing
that. Almost every auto manufacturer that sells in  Europe  has
increased its offerings of natural gas-powered vehicles in
Italy, the region’s biggest market for such cars.  ‘Surf the Wave’  “The competition is higher as every carmaker is now trying
to surf the wave,” said Daniele Chiari, Fiat’s head of European
product planning. “We want to strengthen our leadership with
new models,” like natural gas versions of the Panda city car
and 500L compact wagon.  With auto sales tumbling in Italy, Fiat and other
manufacturers of natural gas cars are luring customers with
steep discounts and promises of 50 percent savings in fuel
costs. Both Fiat and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel unit are offering
rebates of as much as 5,000 euros ($6,570) on the cars to offset
the additional costs of the engines and high-pressure fuel
tanks. A natural gas Fiat Punto compact costs 2,450 euros more
than the gasoline version -- a premium of 18 percent.  Tax Burden  For strapped consumers, the advantages are compelling.
Tanking up with 10 euros worth of fuel will take a gasoline-
powered Fiat Punto about 96 kilometers (60 miles) versus 183
kilometers with propane and 283 kilometers with compressed
natural gas, according to the Turin-based carmaker.  The prospect of such savings has made an impact on
consumers like Alessandro Carmignola. The 36-year-old human
resources manager reduced weekend trips to northern Italy’s
Dolomite mountains after Prime Minister  Mario Monti  raised
gasoline taxes to rein in debt. That pushed petrol prices to
about $9.50 a gallon in some areas, making Italian fuel stations
the costliest in Europe. Carmignola then made a drastic choice.  “Gasoline has simply became unaffordable, so I just sold
my Audi A6 turbo for a gas-powered  Ford Focus ,” he said.  Demand for the cars is boosting sales of companies such as
 Landi Renzo SpA (LR) , a maker of injection systems for alternative
fuels. The manufacturer expects revenue to grow by 5 percent
this year after first-half sales in Italy almost doubled.  “The rise of demand for vehicles that use cheaper fuels
and aggressive campaigns by carmakers are boosting our sales,”
Chief Executive Officer Claudio Carnevale said in an interview.
There’s potential for the segment to take a “big step” in
 North America  after the technology got a boost from  Barack Obama ’s administration, he said.  U.S. Support  Under White House regulations tightening fuel-economy
standards, automakers received an incentive to sell natural gas-
powered vehicles. The final rules, released Aug. 28, give
automakers advantages for selling more cars that use the
technology.  The changes boost Fiat CEO  Sergio Marchionne ’s plan to
install the technology in Chrysler Group LLC vehicles.
Marchionne, who also runs the U.S. automaker, has argued that
natural-gas engines are cheaper and more viable than plug-in
hybrid and electric cars. In Italy, natural gas and propane cars
outsold hybrids and electrics 29 to 1.  “The president has an all-option strategy as far as energy
goes, so that helps quite a bit” on natural gas, said  Peter Grady , Chrysler’s vice president of network development. “The
market’s going to take shape, but not without a lot of
cooperation and work.”  ‘Convenient Solution’  The U.S. has some catching up to do. In Italy, years of
government support have helped build up a network of about 900
natural gas fueling stations, among the densest in the world. By
comparison, California -- which is 40 percent larger than Italy
-- has just 135 stations, the most in the U.S.  Natural gas cars need a more extensive network of stations
because they usually have a shorter range than conventional
vehicles. The  Honda (7267)  Civic Natural Gas, the only such vehicle
that’s widely available in the U.S., gets 220 to 250 miles per
tank, versus about 400 miles for the gasoline version.  Still, there are signs of adoption. Chrysler says orders
for Ram trucks that can run on both conventional gasoline and
compressed natural gas exceeded the company’s expectations
before production starts in October.  “Natural gas doesn’t have the sexy allure of hybrid and
electric cars,” said Gian Primo Quagliano, president of
Promotor, an automotive research group in Bologna. “But at the
end of the day, it’s often the more convenient solution” to
lower emissions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  