-- Gillard’s Labor Rises to 18-Month High in Australian Poll
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-09-17T01:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/gillard-s-labor-rises-to-18-month-high-in-australian-poll-1-.html
Support for Australia’s governing
Labor Party rose to an 18-month high, boosting Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s control before elections due next year.  Labor’s primary vote rose 3 percentage points to 36
percent, while Tony Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition slid 5
points to 41 percent, according to a  Newspoll  survey published
in the Australian newspaper today. Taking preference votes into
account, Labor was equal with the opposition at 50 percent,
after trailing by 10 points in the previous survey.  Labor’s poll ratings have been behind the opposition since
after the 2010 election, when Australia’s first female prime
minister backtracked on a pledge not to introduce a carbon tax.
The improvement may relieve pressure on Gillard, who fought off
a leadership challenge in February from her predecessor  Kevin Rudd , and douse speculation that she may be replaced as party
leader before elections that must be held by November 2013.  “Labor has enjoyed a slow but steady rise in polls over
the past few months and looks to be back in the game,” said
 John Warhurst , a political analyst at the  Australian National
University  in Canberra. “The carbon tax hasn’t had as big an
impact on voters as the opposition was warning about, so the
government has finally got some clear air to sell its agenda.”  Gillard’s lead over Abbott as preferred prime minister
widened to 14 points from 1 point in the previous poll. The
survey of 1,166 people, conducted Sept. 14-16, had a margin of
error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Toxic Tax  Abbott, who has pledged to rescind the “toxic” carbon tax
should his Liberal-National coalition win power, has denied
allegations in the past two weeks that he physically intimidated
a female political opponent during Sydney University elections
in 1977.  “Labor is trying to drive down  Tony Abbott ’s poll
numbers,” House Opposition Leader  Christopher Pyne  said in a
Sky News interview today. “They’re succeeding in doing that. By
election day, the Australian public will not be focusing on the
personal demonization of Tony Abbott.”  Gillard, who returned early from the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit in Vladivostok this month after her father
died, has turned her focus to improving Australia’s education
system, which would entail boosting spending by about A$6.5
billion ($6.8 billion).  Asylum Seekers  In a bid to overcome a politically damaging stalemate, the
government last month said it would reopen camps on the South
Pacific island of Nauru and Papua New Guinea to process asylum
seekers in an effort to deter refugees trying to reach  Australia 
by boat. Almost 1,000 people, often from war-torn Middle Eastern
and South Asian nations, are known to have drowned in the waters
between Indonesia and Australia since 2001.  Gillard also has been promoting her government’s economic
credentials. Australian  consumer confidence  rebounded after the
central bank lowered its benchmark  interest rate  by 1.25
percentage points from November to June and as unemployment
remained close to 5 percent, a private survey showed. The
sentiment index for September rose 1.6 percent to 98.2, a
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey taken Sept.
3-8 of 1,200 consumers showed.  Still, signs of a stalled mining boom may put pressure on
government revenue, as Gillard seeks to end four years of budget
deficits and return to surplus this financial year.  “The easy earnings we get out of high prices are now
gone,” Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  told Bloomberg
Television in an interview from Canberra today. “Our job now is
to no longer rely on the benefit of huge increases, which is
what has occurred in recent years in commodity prices, but to do
all the hard work to improve our competitiveness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  