-- Global Economy in Twilight Zone as Stocks Suggest Growth
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-09-18T14:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/global-economy-in-twilight-zone-as-stocks-suggest-growth.html
The world economy is sliding into a
“twilight zone,” trapped between outright expansion and
renewed recession.  “It could go either way,” said  Joachim Fels , chief
economist at Morgan Stanley in London, who coined the
description in an Aug. 15 report. “It doesn’t take much to tip
us into a global recession.”  The quandary is forcing central banks back to the fore,
with the  Federal Reserve  last week embarking upon a third round
of quantitative easing and the  European Central Bank  standing
ready to buy bonds. While the moves were enough to propel the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its  highest  since 2007, the test
is whether they can lift the global economy from its so-called
stall speed.  “Markets make fabulous economists, so a rally is often
followed by a pick-up in the economy; but there’s likely to be a
consolidation as softer data arrives in the near term,” said
 Trevor Greetham , who helps manage the equivalent of $225 billion
as director of  asset allocation  at Fidelity Worldwide Investment
in London. “There’s a two-way tension.”  That tension is reflected in the calls of equity
strategists, who divide between those unnerved enough by the
opaque economic outlook to shun stocks and those declaring
stimulus and liquidity as reason to buy them. Morgan Stanley
predicts a 20 percent decline in the  S&P 500  to 1,167 through
December. Credit Suisse Group AG forecasts gains will be
sustained, and the U.S. benchmark will end the year at 1,500.
The index was  1,461.19 (SPX)  at 4 p.m. yesterday in New York.  ‘Recommend Buying’  “If central banks believe that QE works, and these
benefits outweigh the costs, they will continue to pursue it,”
 Andrew Garthwaite , a global equity strategist in London at
Credit Suisse, said in a Sept. 14 report. “We recommend
buying.”  The warning from Morgan Stanley, echoed by Citigroup Inc.
and Pacific Investment Management Co., is that even with central
bank support, the recent slowdown means growth is around the
level at which it could suddenly evaporate into recession. That
leaves economies increasingly vulnerable to a slump-inducing
shock as Europe’s debt crisis festers, the U.S. nears its fiscal
cliff and emerging markets slow.  The deceleration leaves central banks as first responders,
even amid questions about the power and scope of monetary policy
to provide much more strength after most benchmark  interest
rates  have been cut to record lows and officials have embarked
upon asset purchases.  Expand Holdings  The Fed last week said it will expand its holdings of long-
term mortgage securities -- this time without limit -- and
probably hold the federal funds rate  near zero  “at least
through mid-2015,” longer than its previous pledge. The ECB
this month agreed to buy the bonds of governments that accept
austerity conditions in return. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
Sept. 11 the world’s second-largest economy has room for
monetary and fiscal measures.  Fels predicts the central banks of the euro area, China,
U.K. and Japan will be among those easing monetary policy even
further. In doing so, they will support asset prices, prevent
deflation, help avert sovereign defaults and maintain some
economic growth, he said.  What the central banks can’t do is substitute for
politicians dealing with budgets and structural challenges, such
as delivering a fiscal union in the euro area or tackling the
more than $600 billion in U.S. spending cuts and tax increases
that will start in January unless Congress acts, Fels said.  Government Action  “Central banks have steered us from recession, but on
their own they can’t bring us into sustainable recovery,” he
said. “To get out of the twilight zone takes government
action.”  At Credit Suisse, Garthwaite says quantitative easing makes
it easier for governments to cut debt by fanning inflation
expectations and also boosts growth by keeping bond yields low.  Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill , who
says he remains “one of the minority bulls,” points out U.S.
households are taking advantage of record-low interest rates to
pare debt and  home prices  are displaying signs of a bounce. The
ECB has committed to keeping the euro alive, and even some
troubled nations, such as Spain, have turned more competitive.
Meantime, China is transitioning to “higher quality” expansion
based on local consumption, he said in an interview. “The
likelihood of another global recession remains currently low.”  ‘Feed the Market’  Mark Mobius , who helps manage more than $40 billion as
executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, said the
Fed will continue to “feed the market” until employment --
stalled  above 8 percent  in the U.S. since February 2009 --
rebounds, and the ECB and Bank of Japan will join it in pumping
out cash.  This will be “very, very” good for stocks and  emerging
markets , he said in an e-mail to  Bloomberg News .  Economists at the Jerome Levy Forecasting Center in Mount
Kisco, New York, are more bearish. Easier monetary and fiscal
policies can deliver only a “ contained depression ” by helping
offset the financial volatility and balance-sheet repair that
would otherwise spell a deeper slump, they say.  “There’s going to be fragile growth globally and a
potential for instability,” said Srinivas Thiruvadanthai,
director of research at the center. The need for investors to
stay “defensive” means they should buy U.S. Treasury
securities, even with the yield on the 10-year bond at 1.84
percent yesterday, he said.  Precarious Economies  While few analysts are forecasting a return to worldwide
recession -- and certainly no slump akin to the 0.6 percent
contraction of 2009 -- the longer the expansion remains
lackluster, the more precarious economies become, Saumil Parikh,
a managing director at Newport Beach, California-based Pimco,
said in a Sept. 12 report.  “The concept of stall speed is a contentious one, but one
that we tend to believe does influence economic outcomes,”
Parikh said. Sales growth can slow only so far before it “sets
in motion an aggregation of cost cutting, labor shedding and
inventory reductions that constitute a typical recession.”  With Parikh warning ‘the probability of more widespread
recessions has increased,” Pimco, manager of the world’s
largest bond fund, last week forecast global growth will slow to
between 1.5 percent and 2 percent next year from 2.2 percent in
2012.  In the U.S., payrolls rose less than projected in August,
and manufacturing shrank for a third month in the longest
decline since the 18-month recession ended in 2009. Euro-area
services and manufacturing also contracted for a seventh month
in August, and the  unemployment rate  is a record  11.3 percent .  Shared Pain  While emerging markets powered the world through the last
recession, many now are sharing the pain. Chinese industrial
output rose at the  slowest pace  in three years last month,
underscoring the risk that full-year economic expansion will be
the lowest in more than two decades.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s international all-industry
purchasing-managers’ index is close to June’s three-year low of
50.1, implying expansion of about 1.5 percent worldwide, and its
new gauge based on incoming data suggests 2 percent. Korean
exports -- a barometer of demand because they reflect the health
of key trading partners such as China -- fell 6.2 percent in
August from a year earlier.  Corporate bellwethers also express discomfort. FedEx Corp.,
the world’s largest cargo airline, today reduced its profit
outlook for the year through May after quarterly earnings
dropped for the first time in almost three years amid lower
demand for premium shipping services.  Constrained Revenue  “Weakness in the global economy constrained revenue growth
at FedEx Express during our first quarter and affected our
earnings,” Memphis, Tennessee-based Chief Executive Officer
Fred Smith said in a statement.  New research published this month by Nathan Sheets, global
head of international economics at Citigroup in New York, shows
just how fast  recessions  can materialize. When U.S. growth slid
below 1.5 percent in the past, expansion typically dropped 3
percentage points in subsequent quarters, and growth elsewhere
mapped up to 30 percent of the U.S. decline, he found.  What matters now is whether the risks turn into reality.
Morgan Stanley’s Fels -- who last week cut his forecast for
growth for a third straight month to 3.1 percent this year from
March’s 3.7 percent estimate and to 3.3 percent in 2013 from 4
percent -- identifies two key threats.  Fiscal Cliff  One is rife policy upheaval. No matter who wins the  U.S.
presidential election  in November -- Democratic President  Barack Obama  or Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  -- the fiscal cliff
is looming. Japan may hold early elections, and China’s
leadership is changing.  Even with the ECB’s offer to buy short-term bonds if
governments adopt austerity programs, the 17-nation euro area
still lacks fiscal ties, while budget cuts are compounding
recessions and fanning suggestions the group still could
splinter. Neither Spain nor Italy has sought the ECB’s aid yet,
and Greece is struggling to earn its latest tranche of cash.  Emerging markets also are finding it tough to transform
their economies, Fels says. China is seeking to shift from a
reliance on  exports  to emphasis on domestic drivers, while
India’s ability to support consumption through  government
spending  is threatened by fiscal deficits. Commodity-dependent
Russia and Brazil may suffer from less foreign demand.  The research by Sheets, director of the Fed’s international
finance division until last year, suggests the worldwide stall
speed is about 3.5 percent, above the 3.2 percent median
forecast for 2012 of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from
Sept. 7 to Sept. 12.  At 2 percent, growth traditionally has fallen
“significantly further,” as in the recent financial crisis, or
stagnated for several years, as in the early 1990s, he said.
“The global economy is very vulnerable at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  