-- Global Regulators Weigh Lending-Rate Overhaul Amid Libor Scandal
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-17T17:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/global-regulators-weigh-lending-rate-overhaul-amid-libor-scandal.html
Global regulators and central
bankers debated tougher oversight of interbank lending rates in
the wake of the scandal engulfing Libor, according to an EU
official.  The steering committee of the Financial Stability Board
weighed how to coordinate nations’ response to the manipulation
of Libor during a conference call today, the official said. The
FSB is scheduled to meet in Tokyo on Oct. 11-12.  FSB Chairman  Mark Carney  told reporters last month that the
FSB would seek to ensure that “the world transitions to a
better version of reference rates” with “buy-in globally.”  Confidence in Libor, the benchmark  interest rate  for more
than $500 trillion of securities, plummeted following  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ’s admission that it submitted false rates. The revelations
have provoked renewed calls for tougher oversight of the
financial system and pushed regulatory probes of interbank
lending rates to the top of the political agenda.  EU representatives on today’s call outlined steps the 27-
nation bloc is taking in the wake of the Libor scandal,
including a bolstering of market-abuse sanctions and a
consultation on overhauling governance of how market benchmarks
are set, said the official, who wouldn’t be cited by name
because the talks are private.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, was
fined 290 million pounds ($472 million) in June for its role in
rigging Libor for profit. Chairman Marcus Agius, Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del
Missier subsequently resigned.  IOSCO Group  The International Organization of Securities Commissions,
which represents regulators in more than 100 countries, last
week announced a task force to investigate benchmarks such as
Libor after allegations banks rigged the rate.  Financial Services Authority Managing Director Martin
Wheatley and U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman
 Gary Gensler  will oversee the IOSCO group, which will develop
global policy guidance and principles for the setting of such
rates.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said earlier this
month that global central bankers had agreed to set up an
inquiry into Libor.  The FSB steering committee has 40 members including U.K.
Financial Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner  and  Daniel
Tarullo , a governor of the U.S. Federal Reserve, according to
the  board’s website .  The board brings together central bankers, regulators and
finance ministry officials from the Group of 20 nations.  European Parliament lawmakers will hold a public hearing on
Sept. 24 into the Libor scandal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  