-- Google Wins Stay From U.S. Appeals Court on E-Books Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-09-17T16:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/google-wins-stay-from-u-s-appeals-court-on-e-books-case.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  won a bid to delay a
copyright lawsuit by the Authors Guild of America over the
company’s plans to digitally scan millions of books while it
appeals a decision that allows the plaintiffs to sue as a class.  U.S. Circuit Judge Raymond Lohier of the U.S. Court of
Appeals in  Manhattan  today granted Google’s request to stay the
lower-court trial. Lohier said he wasn’t ruling on Google’s
likelihood of prevailing on appeal. The Authors Guild didn’t
file any opposition to Google’s request, he said in his order.  Google is being sued over its plan, announced in 2004, to
scan millions of books from public and university libraries to
provide snippets of text to users of its Internet search engine.
Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , argued that the
display of those excerpts is fair use under copyright law.  Google sought the trial delay citing “the prospect of a
class-wide defeat -- with a judgment of potentially billions of
dollars -- or a greatly diminished victory,” according to a
court filing. “A stay is necessary to prevent this anomalous
result,” the company said.  In August U.S. Circuit Judge  Denny Chin , sitting as a trial
judge in the case in Manhattan federal court, rejected Google’s
request to halt the trial. He ordered proceedings to continue,
noting the case was seven years old. In June, Chin had granted
the case class-action status, which Google is appealing.  Maggie Shiels, a spokeswoman for Google, declined to
comment on the stay. Paul Aiken, executive director of the
Authors Guild, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment about the ruling.  Argument Rejected  Chin in May rejected Google’s argument that lawsuits by the
Authors Guild and the American Society of Media Photographers
should be dismissed because the groups lacked standing to sue
for copyright infringement.  Google said in court papers filed last week that the class
“contains millions of different books written by hundreds of
thousands of authors, many of whom believe they benefit from and
approve of  Google Books .”  Google said class representatives “seeking to dismantle
Google Books cannot adequately represent absent class members
who support the project.”  The company said in court papers that without a stay, the
district court will consider and probably rule on the principal
merits in the case before the appeals court reaches a final
decision on class certification.  ‘Seriously Prejudice’  Without a halt to the lower-court case, Google said,
“class members will have an incentive to opt-out if Google
prevails but not if plaintiffs prevail, which would seriously
prejudice Google.”  Google also said in papers filed with the appeals court
last week that Chin is considering whether to grant summary
judgment, or a ruling before trial, in the case.  The case is Authors Guild Inc. v. Google Inc., 12-3200,
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  The authors’ case in the lower court is Authors Guild v.
Google, 05-08136; the visual artists’ case is American Society
of Media Photographers v. Google, 10-02977; U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  