-- Li Na’s Run Sparks Australian Open Wildcard Playoff in China
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-09-17T11:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/li-na-s-run-sparks-australian-open-wildcard-playoff-in-china.html
The  Australian Open  tennis
tournament is organizing a wildcard playoff event in  China  next
month to build on the sport’s rising popularity in  Asia 
following  Li Na ’s Grand Slam success.  The 30-year-old Chinese player, ranked No. 8 on the women’s
WTA tour, made the final of the 2011 Australian Open and went on
to take that season’s  French Open , the first player from Asia to
win a singles title at one of the four Grand Slam events. The
Australian Open will be hosting its first wildcard playoff in
Nanjing, China, in October, it said today. The year’s first
major tournament starts Jan. 14 in Melbourne.  “The success of China’s home-grown champion, Li Na,
continues to build interest and excitement for both the sport
and the tournament,” Ted Baillieu, the premier of Victoria,
said today in an e-mailed statement from  Tennis Australia . The
Australian Open is one of the country’s “most successful events
and attracts thousands of visitors from Asia each year,” he
added.  The Asia-Pacific wildcard playoff will see the region’s top
players compete for an entry to the tournament.  In the past eight years, there has been a 400 percent rise
in the amount of visitors traveling to Melbourne for the event
from the Asia-Pacific region, according to Steve Wood, chief
executive officer of Tennis Australia.  ‘Historic Run’  “When Li Na made her historic run to the final in 2011 we
achieved the highest-ever broadcast exposure throughout Asia,
and China in particular, with 135 million tuning in across the
region,” Wood said in the statement.  Li lost to  Kim Clijsters  of Belgium in the 2011 Australian
final before winning in France against Italy’s Francesca Schiavone. Her success at  Roland Garros  boosted ticket sales
from the Asia-Pacific region at this year’s Australian Open by
30 percent from the previous year, Wood added.  Tennis Australia also announced a new exchange program with
the China Open that will see six Chinese ball boys and girls
displaying their skills at the Australian Open.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  