-- ICA CEO Sees Mexico Infrastructure Spending Rising by 56%
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-09-17T22:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/ica-ceo-sees-mexico-infrastructure-spending-rising-by-56-.html
Annual infrastructure spending in
 Mexico  could climb as much as 56 percent to $70 billion in the
coming years as the country plows more money into roads, ports,
water projects, and oil and gas, said Alonso Quintana, chief
executive officer of  Empresas ICA SAB. (ICA*)   Economic growth and financial stability could help Mexico
boost infrastructure investment by as much as two percentage
points of gross domestic product, from the current level of $45
billion to $50 billion a year, Quintana said today in an
interview after participating in a Bloomberg CEO Roundtable in
Mexico City.  “We’ve been in the range of about 4.5 to 5 percent of GDP
these past years, it’s been quite good actually,” Quintana
said. “I think we can go to $70 billion a year of investment in
infrastructure.”  Expectations of heightened spending on construction have
fueled a 43 percent gain in ICA’s  stock price  this year through
Sept. 14, the sixth-largest gain in the IPC index of 35 Mexican
stocks. ICA, the nation’s largest construction company, has
benefited from speculation that President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto, who takes office Dec. 1, will boost investment in
infrastructure projects.  ICA rose 0.1 percent to 24.30 pesos at the close in Mexico
City.  Strategic Alternatives  The company, based in Mexico City, is still exploring
strategic alternatives for its  homebuilding unit  including the
sale of a majority stake, Quintana, 39, also said.  “There could be something in the near future in terms of a
possible transaction,” he said. “Our priority is return to
shareholders and profitability. It doesn’t really matter who
controls the asset.”  ICA is still on track to complete the La Yesca dam project
in western Mexico for the Federal Electricity Commission, the
state-owned utility, Quintana said.  “We are on schedule and we’ve got almost the full
reservoir,” he said. The company expects to start tests on the
turbines in less than two months, Quintana said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  