-- Hidden Billionaires Unmasked as Westlake Chemical Soars
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C o f f e y
-- 2012-09-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/hidden-billionaires-unmasked-as-westlake-chemical-soars.html
Soaring demand for food packaging,
dry-cleaning wrappers and imitation leather created three new
U.S. billionaires this year.  The children of Ting Tsung “T.T.” Chao -- James Chao, 65,
Albert Chao, 63, and Dorothy Chao Jenkins, 67 -- own a combined
70 percent of Houston-based  Westlake Chemical Corp. (WLK) , North
America’s largest producer of low density polyethylene. The 
chemicalmaker’s shares have risen almost 90 percent this year. 
Each has a net worth of at least $1.4 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  “This is an industry that requires very long-term thinking
to be successful,” said Jason Miner, a Princeton, New Jersey-
based chemicals analyst at Bloomberg Industries. “The Chaos
have distinguished themselves in their ability to see through
the mania of the moment.”  None of the Chaos has appeared on an international wealth
ranking. James Chao is Westlake’s chairman; Albert is president
and chief executive officer. Their sister, Dorothy, sits on the
company’s board. David Hansen, a company spokesman, said the
family declined to comment on their net worth.  “We pursue profitable growth, we don’t look for top-line
growth,” Albert Chao said at the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Global Industrials and Materials Conference in Boston on Sept.
6. “More importantly, we act in a financially disciplined and
optimistic manner.”  Mercedes C-Class  Westlake shares have increased more than  sevenfold  since
March 2009, making it the third-best performing stock by return
in the chemicals industry, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The surge has been fueled by low natural gas prices
and increased demand for plastics in  developing countries . The
company generated $259 million in net income on sales of $3.6
billion in 2011. Profit was up 17 percent from the year before.  The company manufactures chlorine, caustic soda and low 
density polyethylene -- a polymer used to make plastics -- at 
13 North American plants. Last year, Westlake produced 1.7 
billion pounds of polyvinyl chloride, or PVC. It is the second-
largest producer of PVC pipe in the U.S. The material is also 
used in windowframes, blister-pack packaging and the imitation 
leather found in Mercedes C-class cars.  Westlake also owns a 59 percent interest in Suzhou Huasu
Plastics Co., a  China  vinyl products manufacturer it founded
with Norsk Hydro in 1992.  The Chaos have expanded Westlake through acquisitions,
having purchased 21 plants since 1986. In May, Westlake withdrew
its unsolicited $1.2 billion bid to buy Atlanta-based  Georgia
Gulf Corp. (GGC) , North America’s largest maker of vinyl construction
products, after its offer was rejected as too low. The combined
companies would have created North America’s largest maker of
vinyl chloride monomer, a chemical compound used to make PVC and
vinyl siding.  Taiwan, Houston  The Chao family fortune was started by T.T. Chao, who was
born in 1921 in Suzhou, China, a city 20 miles west of  Shanghai .
Chao’s father was an American Tobacco Co. worker, and sent his
son to Shanghai University to study railway management,
according to T.T’s 2008 obituary in the Houston Chronicle.  With Mao closing in on victory in China’s civil war in
1946, the Chaos moved to  Taiwan . Speaking Japanese and English
helped T.T. create partnerships with Japanese industrial
conglomerate  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  and Gulf Oil Corp., then a U.S. oil
producer. The family moved in the mid-1980s to the U.S., where
his children became naturalized American citizens. T.T., along
with sons Albert and James, founded Westlake after acquiring a
 Lake Charles , Louisiana, polyethylene plant from  Occidental
Petroleum (OXY)  in 1986.  Russian Theory  With T.T. serving as chairman, James became the company’s
first president. He has championed management theories such as
Lean Six Sigma and TRIZ, a Russian theory of creative problem
solving.  Albert worked as Westlake’s first executive vice president
before becoming CEO in 2004. He earned his bachelor’s degree
from  Brandeis University  in Boston, and an MBA from  Columbia
University . He sits on the board of trustees of  Rice University .  “Albert’s character is very even-keeled and his style in
investor meetings and on calls is low-key and straight to the
point,” Miner said. “That stable, long-term perspective has
driven the company to success.”  Dorothy Chao Jenkins sits on the board of directors and
serves on the nominating and governance, compensation and
corporate risk committees. She is also on the board of trustees
of  Wellesley College  in  Massachusetts , where she earned her
bachelor’s degree in mathematics, as well as the boards of the
Polk Museum of Art and the John and Mable Ringling Museum of Art
Foundation in  Florida . She is married to  Publix Super Markets
Inc. (PUSH)  Chairman Charles H. Jenkins, Jr. and lives in Lakeland,
Florida.  Holding Company  According to  filings  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, each Chao sibling owns a third of the 46 million
shares controlled by the family’s TTWF LP holding company, whose
name is derived from the initials of their parents.  Westlake sold shares in an initial public offering on the
 New York  Stock Exchange in 2004. TTWF has collected more than
$70 million in dividends and $170 million from share sales. The
family will split $35 million in income annually following a 154
percent increase in the company’s quarterly dividend announced
Aug. 20, to 18.75 cents per share.  In 2007 and 2009, the family collected about $30 million in
dividends from Titan Chemicals, a plastics manufacturer they
founded in 1986 with the Malaysian government. In 2010, Korea’s
Honam Petrochemical bought Titan for $1.2 billion. The siblings
split more than $425 million from the sale. Malaysia doesn’t
have  capital gains  tax, and doesn't count capital gains as
taxable personal income.  “They drive a fair bargain,” said Miner. “They wait for
a good deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Coffey in Boston at 
 bcoffey10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  