-- Time Warner Cable Announces Plans to Sell Clearwire Stake
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-09-17T21:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/time-warner-cable-announces-plans-to-sell-its-stake-in-clearwire.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-
largest U.S. cable company, plans to sell its 46.4 million
shares of  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , the money-losing venture to build a
high-speed wireless Internet network across the U.S.  Time Warner Cable, based in New York, has alerted other
Clearwire investors, including  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and Intel
Corp., of its intention to sell the holdings, according to a
filing last week.  Time Warner Cable and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable
company, agreed in December to market and sell Verizon Wireless
service to customers. The deal allows the cable companies to
combine wireless service with their current offerings of
television, land-line phone and broadband Internet.  “It seems like an opportune time to start to sell the
shares in light of the company’s arrangements with  Verizon
Wireless ,” Justin Venech, a Time Warner Cable spokesman, said
in an e-mail.  Mike DiGioia, a spokesman for Bellevue, Washington-based
Clearwire, declined to comment. The U.S. Justice Department
approved the Verizon deal last month.  Time Warner Cable agreed in 2008 to acquire a stake in
Clearwire to help fund a so-called WiMax network to offer 4G, or
fourth-generation, wireless service. The joint venture with
Sprint has struggled to gain subscribers to its national
wireless service, prompting Comcast and Time Warner Cable to
switch their allegiance to Verizon Wireless, which is already
operating a 4G network using long-term evolution technology.  Clearwire fell 4.9 percent to $1.54 at the close in New
York. The shares have fallen 21 percent this year.  Time Warner Cable spent $550 million for its Clearwire
stake in 2008. The shares are worth $71.5 million at today’s
close.  Comcast still owns its 88.5 million shares in Clearwire,
said John Demming, a spokesman for the cable company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  