-- Immigrants Can’t Save U.S. Cities by Themselves
-- B y   S h i k h a   D a l m i a
-- 2012-09-17T22:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/immigrants-can-t-save-u-s-cities-by-themselves.html
Many U.S. cities caught in a spiral
of economic decline think they have a  rescue plan : an influx of
immigrants. Officials are carrying out policies aimed at
attracting foreigners in hopes that their energy and drive will
reverse decades of population losses and set the stage for a
revival.  Such thinking is a breath of fresh air -- and the polar
opposite -- of the restrictionist rage that has led  Arizona  and
other states to  adopt  draconian tactics to chase away such
people. But immigrants aren’t miracle workers who can fix any
broken economy. Their absence often signals that cities have
taken a wrong turn. Rolling out the welcome mat won’t get a
place back on track without fundamental reform.  The notion that immigrants can revive dying cities isn’t
new.  Cleveland  started trying to get its  “fair share”  of the
foreign-born from traditional immigrant magnets such as  Los
Angeles ,  New York ,  San Francisco  and Houston about a decade ago.  Its efforts  petered out , but other struggling cities have
recently jumped on the immigrant bandwagon.  In Baltimore, Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake wants to
attract 10,000 new families, including foreigners, within 10
years. To this  end , she has barred authorities from asking city
residents about their immigration status. The mayor, a Democrat,
is also offering nutrition and exercise programs in Spanish, an
overture that was anathema to her predecessor.  Dayton,  Ohio , is also  courting  immigrants, offering legal
services to people with visa-related questions and connecting
them with local businesses and community groups interested in
hiring or  helping  them.  City’s Dream  In  Michigan , a former Democratic state representative,
Steve Tobocman, runs a nonprofit group, Global  Detroit , that has
raised $4 million to investigate ways to attract and retain
immigrants. The group is experimenting with programs to connect
low-income immigrant and minority entrepreneurs with lenders who
 offer  loans without collateral. Tobocman is also seeking ways to
keep foreign students in local universities from moving away.  “No one strategy will, by itself, revitalize the Detroit
regional economy,” he says. “However, nothing is more powerful
to remaking Detroit as a center of innovation, entrepreneurship
and  population growth , than embracing and increasing immigrant
populations.”  The problem with this thinking is that it misunderstands
the role that immigrants play in an economic revival. They
aren’t the engine for growth. They are only the fuel, albeit a
high-octane one. The difference is crucial.  What is true, contrary to the bellyaching by anti-
immigration restrictionists, is that they are a net boon -- not
a burden -- for local economies. A recent  Standard & Poor’s 
study  found  that U.S. cities with a “significant” immigrant
population improved their  credit rating  because even low-wage
foreigners pay taxes that help defray the cost of services.  There is also evidence that immigration and growth are
strongly correlated. A study by  David Dyssegaard Kallick  of the
New York-based  Fiscal Policy Institute  examined the experience
of the 25 largest metropolitan areas, starting in 1990. He found
that wherever there was economic growth, there was immigration,
and wherever there was immigration, there was economic growth.  From 1990 to 2000, New York’s economic-growth rate was
 directly  related to an increase in immigrants’ share of the
local  labor force , Kallick found. They were crucial to the
city’s recovery in the 1970s when the declining population was
causing its tax base to erode and the crime rate to soar --
similar to what Rust Belt cities such as Detroit and Cleveland
have been experiencing.  Bankruptcy’s Lessons  But the stories of an immigrant-led renewal -- the Korean
store  owners  in blighted New York neighborhoods and wig
manufacturers who  created  the vibrant Koreatown in Los Angeles
starting in the 1970s -- overestimate the economic collapse of
the cities that the newcomers are credited with restoring, says
 Sanda Kaufman , a professor of planning, policy and public
administration at Cleveland State University. She conducted a
study in 2003, at the behest of Cleveland’s mayor, that examined
using immigration for urban renewal. Kaufman found that much of
the research in the U.S. linking immigration with growth came
either from large cities with thriving economies, or ones that
were never completely down and out.  Even New York in the 1970s wasn’t quite as desolate a place
as Detroit is today. Its population losses were not as severe.
The financial industry had not retrenched as badly as Detroit’s
auto industry has. And its government wasn’t as badly broken.
New York got a federal loan to avoid bankruptcy, to be sure --
but not until President  Gerald Ford  was convinced it was serious
about dealing with its structural fiscal imbalances, not to
mention crime and crumbling schools. That is when the city
became a magnet for immigrants who speeded up its turnaround.  The newcomers are very good at finding and seizing openings
in an economy that the native-born residents don’t see or don’t
want. This is one reason cities should remove the barriers
keeping immigrants away. But first these opportunities have to
exist.  When they do, a city’s population loss is reversed rather
quickly as immigrants move in to capture the openings left by
departing residents. A 2003 Brookings Institution study  found 
that five of six metropolitan areas, including New York, with
the biggest exodus of residents in the 1990s also had the
largest influx of foreigners. By contrast, Rust Belt cities such
as Detroit have experienced only outflows since the 1960s.  Why?  New Yorkers  were mostly leaving for greener pastures
elsewhere, while Detroit’s residents are mostly fleeing to
escape a lack of opportunities.  Another Experiment  Kaufman argues that a relevant experience for Detroit and
Baltimore isn’t in New York, but in  Israel ’s development-town
 experiment  in the 1950s and 1960s. The Israeli government tried
to settle newcomers from North Africa, Yemen and  Romania  in
Galilee and the southern part of the country to ease crowding in
the cities and coastal regions. It offered big incentives to the
new residents in hopes that they would stay and flourish. But
the efforts mostly didn’t pan out, and the immigrants left to
join their communities elsewhere.  It turns out, immigrants aren’t pioneers whose survival
depends on conquering an inhospitable frontier. Yes, they can
put up with far greater hardship than the native-born, but they
aren’t clueless ingenues who are easily seduced. They have word-
of-mouth networks that alert them to places that offer them the
best economic and social fit, making it difficult to plunk them
anywhere and expect results.  So what should Detroit, Baltimore and other struggling
cities do to become more attractive to immigrants? Offer them a
decent quality of life at an affordable price. This means
improving schools, tackling crime, creating an entrepreneur-
friendly climate and keeping taxes reasonable.  In short, fix the economic engine first.  (Shikha Dalmia is a Detroit-based senior analyst at Reason
Foundation. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how Congress has let
companies  shortchange pension funds  and on the Obama
administration’s  trade dispute with China ;  Edward Glaeser  on
Obama’s missed chances for  long-term economic reform ;
Adam Minter on  China’s anti-Japanese riots ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
the  makers versus takers election ; Harvey S. Rosen on economic
growth from Romney’s  tax-reform plan .  To contact the writer of this article:
Shikha Dalmia in Detroit at  shikhadalmia62@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 