-- India Must Extend Reform After ‘Weekend of Action':Samsun
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-09-17T12:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/india-must-extend-reform-after-weekend-of-action-samsun.html
Vijay Tohani, chief investment
officer at Samsung Asset Management Ltd., which oversees about
$82 billion of assets, comments on changes in  India ’s foreign
ownership rules and the central bank’s monetary policy action.  Tohani made his comments in an e-mail from  Singapore  today.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 0.4 percent
to 18,542.31 in Mumbai, the highest close since July 25, 2011.  On foreign direct investment reforms:  “The announcements will help restore some confidence and
credibility but will they be enough for India’s industrialists
to step up the much-needed investment cycle? I don’t think so.  ‘‘We need to see the reform momentum continuing. We have
had four years of inaction and one weekend of action. Action is
needed in power, energy and land acquisition before the capex
cycle takes off.”  India ended a 14-month freeze in diesel prices last week to
cut its fiscal deficit and allowed more foreign investment in
aviation and retail industries, the biggest policy push in Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s second term.  On RBI’s monetary policy:  “The RBI is happy that the government has come out of its
comatose policy state. They will seek to see there’s no policy
backtracking and no political backlash. Given increased global
liquidity, the risk of higher inflation and fiscal slippage for
India remains the RBI’s number one headache.”  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao today cut the  cash reserve ratio 
to 4.5 percent from 4.75 percent, adding 170 billion rupees to
the system. Three of 39 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted the outcome, with the rest forecasting no change.  On investment strategy:  “Value exists in high-beta sectors such as industrials,
infrastructure, real estate and state-owned banks. However, I
remain wary. One can expect a bounce from oversold positions,
but for these sectors to continue to outperform we need to see
their earnings prospects improve. That will only happen when the
investment capex cycle is firmly under way.”  The Sensex has climbed 20 percent this year, helped by the
highest foreign flows among the 10 Asian markets outside  China 
tracked by Bloomberg. The 30-stock measure is the second-best
performer among indexes with at least a $1 trillion value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  