-- India Cuts Reserve Ratio to Boost Growth While Holding Rates
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-09-17T13:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/india-cuts-reserve-ratio-to-support-growth-while-holding-rates.html
India ’s central bank unexpectedly
reduced the amount of deposits lenders must set aside as
reserves, supporting the government’s push to revive growth even
as it kept  interest rates  unchanged to damp elevated inflation.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao cut the  cash reserve ratio  to 4.5
percent from 4.75 percent, effective Sept. 22, adding about 170
billion rupees ($3.1 billion) to the banking system, the  Reserve
Bank of India  said today. Three of 39 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey predicted the reduction to the lowest level since
2004. The rest forecast no change after two cuts earlier in
2012.  Inflation has quickened beyond 7.5 percent, a climb that
may be exacerbated by the first increase in diesel prices in 14
months and a rise in commodities as the U.S. steps up monetary
easing. India boosted the subsidized fuel’s tariff last week to
pare its fiscal deficit and allowed more foreign investment in
the economy, the biggest policy overhaul of Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s previously gridlocked second term.  “It’s a token move to pat the government on the back but
inflation is still going to go up due to domestic price
adjustments and global factors,” said  Rajeev Malik , a senior
economist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in  Singapore . “Further
actions by the RBI will depend on the fiscal correction and
inflation dynamics.”  Rupee Climb  The rupee strengthened 0.6 percent to 54.0075 per dollar in
Mumbai, while the BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose 0.42 percent.
The yield on the 10-year bonds due June 2022 was little changed.
The currency surged 2 percent on Sept. 14 on Singh’s steps to
counter India’s weakest expansion in almost a decade and prevent
a  credit-rating  downgrade.  The central bank kept the benchmark  repurchase rate  at 8
percent, it said in today’s statement in Mumbai, leaving it
unchanged for a third meeting as expected by 35 of 39 economists
a Bloomberg survey. Four forecast a reduction to 7.75 percent.  The “primary focus” remains the containment of price
pressures, the Reserve Bank said. Inflation and India’s fiscal
and current-account shortfalls constrain a stronger monetary
policy response to growth risks, it said.  “The government’s recent actions have paved the way for a
more favorable growth-inflation dynamic,” the central bank
 said . “Several challenges remain, one of which is persistent
inflation. But, as policy actions to stimulate growth
materialize, monetary policy will reinforce the positive impact
of these actions while maintaining its focus on inflation
management.”  Chidambaram’s View  The reserve-ratio cut is a “small but welcome” measure,
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in  New Delhi 
today. He said he’s confident the central bank’s review on Oct.
30 will be “far more supportive of growth” as the government
is expected to make further policy changes and lay out a path to
“fiscal correction.”  There could be a slight slippage in the fiscal deficit even
as the government plans to stick to the borrowing schedule for
the year through March 2013, Chidambaram said later in comments
to Bloomberg TV India. Growth could range from 6.1 percent to
6.7 percent this year, he said.  The  Reserve Bank ’s decision comes after Asian nations such
as the Philippines,  Indonesia ,  Malaysia  and  South Korea  held
rates this month. Officials are evaluating the impact of the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision on Sept. 13 to embark on a third
round of bond purchases to boost growth and employment.  Policy Logjam  India’s moves last week to contain spending on diesel
subsidies and boost foreign investment in industries from
retailing to aviation followed a months-long policy logjam that
dimmed the outlook for  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  The gridlock was caused in part by discord in Singh’s
fractious ruling coalition over whether the policies should be
implemented. Corruption allegations added to the gloom by
paralyzing Parliament.  “The government has initiated big-ticket reforms,” said
Jyoti Narasimhan, India economist at IHS Global Insight in
Bangalore. “It will still need to do more to spur investment
and economic growth, and of course not roll back any of these
measures in the face of expected heavy political opposition.”  The Reserve Bank predicts Indian expansion will hold at a
nine-year low of 6.5 percent in the fiscal year through March
2013 as investment moderates and  Europe ’s debt crisis weighs on
global growth. Forecasters including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Citigroup Inc. expect a pace of less than 6 percent.  Inflation Risk  Subdued expansion has affected companies such as motorcycle
manufacturers, with sales in an industry that includes  Hero
Motocorp Ltd. (HMCL)  and  Bajaj Auto Ltd. (BJAUT)  down 4.5 percent last month,
the first fall since January 2009, according to the  Society of
Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  The central bank has previously flagged inflation risks
from the longer-term drop in the rupee, the prospect of costlier
food as a below-average monsoon crimps farm output and the
 budget deficit . The rupee is down 12.3 percent in the past year.  Subbarao lowered the  repurchase rate  by 0.5 percentage
point in April to 8 percent, the first reduction since 2009. The
Reserve Bank has said that move “frontloaded” a cut on the
assumption the government will restrain the budget shortfall.  Diesel prices rose about 14 percent under last week’s
effort to curb subsidies. The climb will add as much as 72 basis
points to headline inflation, keeping it at an average of 7.5
percent to 8 percent until December, Morgan Stanley said. It was
7.55 percent last month.  Credit Rating  Singh needs to limit subsidies to meet the goal of
narrowing the  budget deficit  to 5.1 percent of gross domestic
product in the fiscal year through March 2013, from 5.8 percent.  Standard & Poor’s and  Fitch Ratings  said earlier this year
India’s budget and trade gaps imperil its investment-grade
credit rating.  The reform measures appear credit positive even as they
carry “considerable execution risks” due to opposition within
the ruling Congress-led coalition and the recent track record of
policy reversals, Fitch Ratings said in a statement today.  Moody’s Investors Service said in a statement the effect of
reform measures outweigh any credit-positive benefits because
they are too small or carry rollback risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  