-- Indonesia Commission Approves Increase in Power Tariff
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2012-09-18T10:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/indonesia-power-price-increase-closer-after-commission-approval.html
An Indonesian parliament commission
approved a government plan to raise the price of electricity,
potentially reducing subsidy costs and encouraging investment in
the nation’s power grid that is needed to boost economic growth.  The energy commission agreed to include an electricity
subsidy of 78.6 trillion rupiah ($8.3 billion) in the 2013 state
budget, Chairman Sutan Bhatoegana said yesterday after a meeting
with the commission and the Ministry of Energy and Mineral
Resources. That equates to a 15 percent increase in electricity
prices. Households consuming less than 900 volt-amperes will be
exempt from the higher rates, he said. The measure must still be
approved by parliament.  An increase in electricity prices would boost state utility
PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara’s ability to invest in  power plants 
in Southeast Asia’s biggest economy, where about 74 percent of
the population was connected as of March, according to data from
Listrik Negara. That’s lower than the electrification ratio of
 Thailand  with 99.3 percent and  Vietnam  with 97.6 percent.  “We have agreed that spending for infrastructure is too
small,” Deputy Finance Minister Mahendra Siregar said today.
“It will be one of our priorities.”  Electricity demand in  Indonesia  is expected to grow by 9
percent next year, Deputy Energy and Mineral Resources Minister
Rudi Rubiandini said in a presentation during the meeting. The
government will increase its  capital spending  by 15 percent in
2013 to boost infrastructure that is needed to ensure
sustainable growth, President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  said in
his Aug. 16 budget speech.  Automatic Adjustments  To contain energy subsidies and make more funds available
for spending that will benefit the economy, Yudhoyono proposed
adjusting power tariffs automatically every quarter starting in
January. The method of implementation for next year’s
electricity rate increase wasn’t announced at yesterday’s
meeting.  “The issue is not with the availability of funds,”  Fauzi Ichsan , a senior economist at Standard Chartered Plc in Jakarta,
said in a phone interview today. “Even without raising
electricity prices or fuel prices, infrastructure projects are
delayed because of problems such as land acquisition.”  Indonesia’s parliament approved a land-acquisition bill in
December that will allow the government to accelerate road, port
and airport projects. During the president’s first five-year
term through 2009, 125 kilometers (78 miles) of toll roads were
built, compared with  China ’s 4,719 kilometers of toll roads in
2009 alone. A 1961 law says that only the president can seize
land if owners refuse to sell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  