-- Irish Said to Prefer Bonds Over ESM to Refinance Anglo Irish
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-09-18T10:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/ireland-said-to-favor-bonds-over-esm-to-refinance-anglo-irish.html
Irish authorities now favor using
 government bonds  to refinance the rescue of the former Anglo
Irish Bank Corp., easing funding pressure on the state over the
next decade, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Under a plan being weighed by officials, Enda Kenny’s
government would inject as much as 40 billion euros ($52.4
billion) of notes of as long as 40 years in maturity into the
bank, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private. These may be used as collateral
for European Central Bank funds, replacing 30 billion euros of
so-called promissory notes used for the bank’s 2010 bailout.  The ECB has been in “intense discussions” on
“enhancements” to Ireland’s program, ECB Executive Board
Member Joerg Asmussen told reporters in Nicosia, Cyprus on Sept.
14. ECB and Irish finance ministry officials declined to comment
on the government’s plans.  Using bonds would mark a strategy shift by Irish Finance
Minister  Michael Noonan  who has advocated tapping the European
Stability Mechanism to cut the cost of the nation’s banking
rescue. The bond plan would sidestep potential political
opposition in  Europe  to using the euro-region’s bailout funds to
refinance the bank’s funding, the people said.  “Politically, this could be seen as domestically quite
disappointing, given the lack of any headline relief, though it
is also a far easier sell in the European context,” said Owen Callan, a Dublin-based fixed-income analyst at Danske Bank A/S,
a primary dealer in Irish government debt.  Stop Collapse  The yield on the Irish benchmark October 2020 bond rose 2
basis points to 5.29 percent. It has fallen from 7.13 percent
just before European leaders agreed on June 29 to examine the
Irish financial sector to improve the sustainability of the
nation’s “well-performing adjustment program.”  The Irish state issued Anglo Irish with the promissory
notes, or IOUs, two years ago to stave off the bank’s collapse.
Now renamed Irish Bank Resolution Corp., the lender takes the
notes and exchanges them with the Irish central bank for so-
called emergency liquidity assistance, or ELA.  This assistance amounted to 41.7 billion euros at the end
of June, equivalent to about a quarter of the economy, with the
notes making up the bulk of the collateral. The notes were
included in Irish government debt in 2010, helping to triple the
state’s borrowings over the last five years.  Bank Funding  Ireland’s government is due to pay IBRC about 3 billion
euros a year for at least the next decade to pay off the debt.
IBRC in turn uses that money to repay the Irish central bank.  Under the plan being studied, the state would issue a long-
term bond to the lender. IBRC could take the bond to the ECB,
which could, if it agrees, provide funding to IBRC to replace
that supplied by the Irish  central bank.   “Firstly, the funding situation for the Irish sovereign
would be immediately improved, said  Dermot O’Leary , chief
economist at Dublin-based  Goodbody Stockbrokers . “Secondly,
depending on the  interest rate  on the bonds, the annual interest
cost would be reduced.”  The government could redeem the bond as far out as 2052.
The main advantage for the state is that it wouldn’t have to
raise 3 billion euro a year to pay off the ELA, as currently
agreed. It wouldn’t alter the nation’s debt level.  Ireland will continue a campaign for Europe to
retrospectively recapitalize other bailed-out banks, Noonan has
signalled. In all, Ireland has injected or pledged about 64
billion euros to save its financial system.  Approval Needed  While the ECB would prefer if the promissory notes were
replaced by ESM bonds than Irish securities, this would need
approval from all member states of the rescue fund and increase
the amount of Ireland’s bailout, according to the two people.
The state applied for a 67.5 billion euro bailout in 2010.  Germany ’s Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  signalled his
reservations about raising the size of Ireland’s aid program
last month.  “We will have to avoid a headline like ‘Aid Program for
Ireland Topped Up’ because then investors in California or
 Shanghai  might not understand that this top-up is a reward for
Ireland, but might be tempted to conclude that what was agreed
two years ago for Ireland was not enough,” Schaeuble told the
Irish Times.  -- With assistance from  Rebecca Christie  in Brussels and
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg. Editors: Dara Doyle, Simone Meier  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  