-- Jailed Drabinsky Built Empires Until Crash: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-09-17T13:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/jailed-drabinsky-built-empires-until-crash-jeremy-gerard.html
I made my screen debut last week at
the  Toronto International Film Festival , thanks to a flamboyant
show-business mogul now doing time in a federal prison.  There’s perfect symmetry in the fact that “ Show Stopper:
The Theatrical Life of Garth Drabinsky ” had its premiere in the
city where Drabinsky made and lost two fortunes.  Beginning in 1979, Drabinsky’s sleekly designed theaters of
Cineplex (later Cineplex-Odeon) defined the multiplex experience
(popcorn with real butter!), controlling 1,825 screens in  North
America  and accruing half a billion dollars in debt before his
ouster in 1989.  His golden handshake included the rights to Cineplex’s
live-theater producing arm, which he reinvented as Livent, Inc.
It opened with the Toronto production of “The Phantom of the
Opera” at the Pantages Theatre, which he’d lavishly restored.
Livent’s arc was remarkably similar to that of Cineplex: A few
rollicking years of expansion rendered unsustainable by mounting
debt.  By the time Livent collapsed in 1998, Drabinsky had made
adversaries of a formidable list of ex-partners including MCA’s
Lew Wasserman and Sidney Sheinberg in Hollywood, the Bronfman
family in  Canada  and Beverly Hills dealmaker  Michael Ovitz .  Living Large  Crippled by polio as a child and left with a lifelong limp,
Drabinsky lived large and became a local hero as Toronto became
the third biggest live-theater city in the world after  London 
and  New York . He shuttled talent between Manhattan and Toronto
in private jets and limousines and generally embraced every
cliche of old-school impresarios like Florenz Ziegfeld, whom he
idolized.  But a few were dubious. I was one of them, and that’s how I
came to play a part, small to be sure, in both Drabinsky’s life
and in “Show Stopper,” producer-director-writer Barry Avrich’s
richly detailed survey of Drabinsky’s plummet from a high-flying
career.  After “Phantom” made him a player again, Drabinsky hired
that show’s director, Hal Prince, to stage a definitive
production of “Show Boat.” It was huge, expensive and
fabulous, eventually moving to Broadway. But when Drabinsky
announced that it had paid back its $10 million capitalization,
I declined to join the chorus of bravos.  I was the chief critic at Variety back then, and when the
industry bible ignored “news” like that, it was taken as a
sign that something smelled bad. This elicited from him a blaze
of invective and attacks on my escutcheon impressive in both
range and color.  No Dice  A few years later, when some reports congratulated him for
getting Ovitz to invest $20 million in Livent, I wrote in New
York magazine that in fact, Drabinsky was selling off his
company in a desperate effort to stay afloat, just as he’d done
at Cineplex. That column was headlined “Flop Sweat.”  Ovitz managed to install his own people on the Livent
board, but it was already too late. The house of cards that
Drabinsky had built on debt and phony numbers was collapsing.  In 2010, Drabinsky was convicted of defrauding investors of
$501 million through cooked books and kickbacks. A year later he
lost an appeal and the Canadian  Supreme Court  declined to hear
the case.  He’s serving a five-year sentence at Beaver Creek
Institution, a minimum security prison in Gravenhurst, about two
hours north of Toronto and, happily, near his country home.  Avrich knows Drabinsky from the inside, having once worked
for him. “Show Stopper” has an insider’s abundance of detail,
perhaps somewhat to its detriment given such a larger-than-life
subject.  While there are encomiums from stars like Elaine Stritch
and Chita Rivera, more telling is the figures who weren’t
interviewed for “Show Stopper” -- notably Prince and the
creative team behind “Ragtime,” who benefitted greatly from
his largesse.  Their absence suggests more than the testimony from those
of us who understood Drabinsky’s obsession with buying -- or
stealing -- legitimacy at any cost. Garth always made great
copy. He was, as I wrote back then, a con man whose con was art.  “Show Stopper” begins a limited engagement in Toronto on
Sept. 21 before being shown on The Movie Network, a Canadian
cable network, beginning Oct. 4. He is also planning a New York
screening in the fall.  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  and  Greg Evans .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 