-- JPMorgan Sued by Lehman Over $2.2 Billion Derivatives Claims
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-09-17T18:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/jpmorgan-sued-by-lehman-over-2-2-billion-derivatives-claims-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , fighting over
$6.3 billion it says Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. owes it, was
sued by the defunct investment bank as it seeks to reject $2.2
billion in derivatives obligations.  A U.S. bankruptcy judge should rule on the “overstated”
demands by the bank, which never supplied supporting documents
for its claims, Lehman said in a filing in federal court in
 Manhattan . Lehman is seeking unspecified damages from the
biggest  U.S. bank , as well as money due from JPMorgan under the
derivatives contracts.  “The JPMorgan entities’ derivatives claims should be
reduced or disallowed,” Lehman said in the Sept. 14 filing.  The derivatives claims also feature in Lehman’s $8.6
billion suit against JPMorgan, which was the main short-term
lender to Lehman around the time of its 2008 collapse during the
credit crisis. Now out of bankruptcy, Lehman is gathering money
for its second payment to creditors on Oct. 1. It has said it
expects to pay creditors 18 cents on the dollar by 2016 or so.  Last month, Lehman lost a bid to persuade a judge to revise
his ruling on the $8.6 billion suit against JPMorgan, which
alleges that the New York-based lender helped cause its collapse
by taking collateral for its loans.  Payment Demands  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck dismissed some of the
investment bank’s claims that might have brought creditors
hundreds of millions of dollars, according to Lehman. Peck told
Lehman it has other ways of obtaining money from JPMorgan, such
as fighting the bank’s payment demands.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call and e-mail
seeking comment on the suit.  The bank, which loaned Lehman’s brokerage $70 billion
around the time of the bankruptcy, has denied causing the firm’s
collapse. After giving Lehman almost $700 million to settle part
of the $8.6 billion suit, it continues to fight most of Lehman’s
allegations.  Peck ruled in April that Lehman cannot claim money from
JPMorgan for securities transactions governed by so-called safe
harbor law, devised to protect banks dealing with weak
companies. Lehman is entitled to pursue the remaining “complex,
fact driven causes of action,” he said.  Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
September 2008, listing $613 billion in debt.  The case is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v. JPMorgan Chase
Bank NA, 12-01874,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan). The earlier case is Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-03266, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 