-- Juventus, West Ham Get Players as Uruguay’s ‘Ghost’ Deals Mount
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-09-18T10:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/juventus-west-ham-get-players-as-uruguay-s-ghost-deals-mount.html
Juventus (JUVE) ,  AS Roma (ASR)  and Porto agreed
to pay a combined 11.1 million euros ($14.6 million) to hire
players from Club Deportivo Maldonado, a Uruguayan soccer team
for which they never appeared, according to stock-market
filings.  England ’s West Ham took a striker on loan.  South American teams and investors in the players’ transfer
rights move the athletes’ registrations through Uruguayan clubs
to reduce tax on the trades to as little as 5 percent from 20
percent, said  Rodrigo Garcia , a lawyer at Laffer Abogados in
Madrid who has advised teams on such deals. Argentina’s tax
authority said last month that the arrangements were irregular,
and  Brazil ’s sports minister Aldo Rebelo said soccer ruling body
FIFA should outlaw the “ghost” club deals.  At least $70 million of transfer fees went through nine
Uruguayan clubs in the same way since 2000, according to
Bloomberg News calculations.  Uruguay’s soccer federation 
declined to comment yesterday.  “This has been going on for years without anybody paying
much attention,” Garcia said by telephone. “FIFA doesn’t look
on it favorably but turns a deaf ear.” The trades would only
break FIFA rules if investors or other third parties interfered
in player movement, Garcia said.  ‘Tax Avoidance’  FIFA is seeking to improve regulation of the $3 billion
transfer market. In 2010, the soccer authority made it
compulsory to disclose bank details of where transfer money goes
via an Internet-based system.  Mark Goddard , who oversees the
system, said at the time that soccer is “the last area of the
commercial world where large amounts of money can be moved
without oversight or regulation.”  The soccer authority referred calls about the  Uruguay 
trades to its regulations that say  sanctions  may be imposed on
federations or clubs that submit false data into the so-called
Transfer Matching System, or misuse it for illegitimate reasons.
Possible penalties in the rules include a competition ban --
FIFA organizes the  World Cup  and other tournaments -- and
demotion to a lower division.  Deportivo Maldonado  is a second-division team in Uruguay,
where even the top sides are traditionally weaker than Brazilian
and Argentine counterparts in continental competition. Trades
through Uruguayan clubs amount to “damaging” tax avoidance,
with the transfer fees sometimes directed to offshore companies,
the  Argentina  tax agency said in an Aug. 24 statement. The
arrangement could be used to launder money, Brazil’s Rebelo said
in an Aug. 30 interview.  Porto Signing  In February, FIFA began investigating after Mario Bursztyn,
president of Club Atletico Rentistas, said transfer fees
involving Brazilian players including “Hulk,” whose real name
is Givanildo Vieira de Souza, were redirected through the
Uruguayan team to a bank account in the name of Sao Paulo-based
player agent Juan Figer. The players concerned never appeared in
games for Rentistas.  Bursztyn said in a Feb. 8 interview that Rentistas received
a monthly retainer fee under the arrangement.  Figer follows all the rules of his profession, his
spokesman Jose Aparecida Miguel said today in an e-mail.  In the Deportivo Maldonado trades, Brazil’s Alex Sandro
joined Portuguese champion  Porto (FCP)  for 9.6 million euros. Marcelo
Estigarribia went to current Italian champion Juventus on loan
last season for 500,000 euros and Paraguay teammate Ivan Piris
moved to Roma on loan for 700,000 euros this season. West Ham
took Brian Montenegro, another Paraguayan, on loan from
Maldonado last season without disclosing if there was a fee
involved.  Roma Option  Porto spokesman Rui Cerqueira didn’t return a call and e-
mail seeking comment on the arrangement. Juventus’s Claudio
Albanese declined to comment about its hiring of Estigarribia,
who is now on loan at Sampdoria. A West Ham official said the
club had no comment.  Roma evaluated Piris while he was playing on loan at
Brazil’s Santos and did not feel it “significant” that his
federative rights were owned by Maldonado, Roma spokeswoman
Catia Augelli said in an e-mail.  Roma has paid 300,000 euros for an option to sign Piris
permanently for 4 million euros after this season, according to
an Aug. 1 team statement.  Maldonado official Jorge Lopez said he was unable to
discuss the trades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  