-- Juventus Rallies to Keep Perfect Serie A Start; Marseille Wins
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-09-17T00:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/juventus-rallies-to-keep-perfect-serie-a-start-marseille-wins.html
Juventus rallied to beat Genoa 3-1
in Italian soccer’s Serie A, with Napoli, Lazio and Sampdoria
also maintaining winning starts. Marseille extended its 100
percent record in  France .  Juventus, which remained unbeaten in winning the title last
season, trailed at Genoa yesterday after Ciro Immobile scored
for the home team. Emanuele Giaccherini tied the match in the
61st minute before Mirko Vucinic’s penalty kick and a goal from
Kwadwo Asamoah completed the comeback win.  “We knew this is a tough place to come, Genoa began the
game very well and they caught us off guard,” Juve’s caretaker
coach Massimo Carrera said on his team’s website. “We did well
to turn the game around.”  Napoli beat Parma 3-1, Lazio defeated Chievo 3-1, while
Sampdoria held off a comeback by Pescara to win 3-2. Juventus,
Napoli and Lazio have nine points, with Sampdoria a point back
because of a penalty for an illegal betting scandal.  Inter Milan  and Fiorentina are another two points back
after 2-0 victories against Torino and Catania respectively. Two
days ago, AC Milan slumped to its second defeat in three
matches, 1-0 at home to Atalanta.  Palermo fired coach Giuseppe Sannino yesterday, a day after
a 1-1 draw against Cagliari.  Jordan Ayew scored the only goal as French league leader
Marseille won at Nancy last night to move to the maximum 15
points from five matches. Lyon is two points back after beating
Ajaccio 2-0 at home.  Defending champion Montpellier fell to its third loss of
the season with a 3-1 defeat at Reims on Sept. 14, while Paris
Saint-Germain beat Toulouse 2-0 the same day.  Spanish Action  In  Spain ,  Atletico Madrid  held on for a 4-3 win against
Rayo Vallecano last night after taking a 4-0 lead before
allowing three goals in the last eight minutes. Atletico climbed
to fifth place in the standings.  Barcelona is top with a 100 percent record from four games
after a 4-1 win at Getafe two days ago, while Real  Madrid  lost
1-0 at fourth-place Sevilla. Defending champion Madrid remains
on four points, its worst start in La Liga for 11 years.  Real Sociedad was the only other winner yesterday, beating
Real Zaragoza 2-0. The matches between Espanyol and  Athletic
Bilbao , Granada and Deportivo La Coruna, and Osasuna-Mallorca
ended in draws.  Bayern Munich  and Eintracht Frankfurt notched their third
straight wins in Germany’s Bundesliga this weekend.  Bayern beat Mainz 3-1 on Sept. 15, while Frankfurt defeated
Hamburg 3-2 yesterday. Freiburg won 5-3 against Hoffenheim,
which remains without a point alongside Hamburg.  FC Twente  continues to lead in the Dutch Eredivisie after a
6-2 win at Willem II two days ago which gives coach  Steve
McClaren ’s team the maximum 15 points through five matches.  Vitesse Arnhem  won 3-0 at Groningen yesterday and is two
points back, with defending champion Ajax on 11 points after a
2-0 win against  RKC Waalwijk  on Sept. 15.  PSV Eindhoven  lost 1-0
at Utrecht.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 