-- Kate Photos Test Royal Resolve After Nude Harry Shots
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-09-17T14:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/kate-photos-test-royal-resolve-after-news-corp-nude-harry-shots.html
Topless pictures of Kate, the
Duchess of Cambridge, in French magazine Closer are testing the
reactions of the U.K. royal family and the British public to
intrusive media coverage after years of restraint, lawyers said.  Closer, which published several photos on Sept. 14 of Kate
sunbathing with her husband  Prince William  on a private estate
in  France , was probably inspired by News Corp.’s Sun tabloid in
Britain, which broke with traditional practice last month by
running images of Prince Harry naked at a party in Las Vegas,
said Caroline Jan, a media lawyer at  Kingsley Napley  in  London .  French tabloids had self-censored their coverage of the
royals following the death of the princes’ mother, Diana Princess of  Wales , in Paris 15 years ago while being pursued by
paparazzi on motorbikes, Jan said. The Kate Middleton photos are
a sign the French public’s demand for gossip is forcing a change
to that approach, she said.  “They’ve taken the risk -- having seen the Sun publish
photos of Harry, they just wanted to see what would happen,”
Jan, who is French, said in telephone interview about Closer’s
publication. “They are testing the law and they are testing the
reaction of the people.”  Prince William and Kate will sue the magazine owned by the
Berlusconi family’s Arnoldo Montadori Editore Spa, the couple’s
office said in an e-mailed statement on Sept. 14. Britain’s
Parliament called for legal action hours earlier and Prime
Minister  David Cameron , through his spokesman, said he believes
that the royal couple “are entitled to their privacy.”  Criminal Complaint  The couple plans to file a criminal complaint today against
the unidentified photographer, St. James’s Palace said. The
filing will be made with French prosecutors, who will then
decide whether to take the case.  Laurence Pieau, the editor in chief, was cited by AFP Sept.
14 saying that there’s “nothing shocking” about the photos.
“They show a young woman sunbathing topless, like you see
millions of at the beach.”  Pieau declined to comment today ahead of a court hearing on
the matter in Nanterre near Paris.  It’s “crystal clear” Kate will win a lawsuit against
Closer, said Yann Colin, a French lawyer who represents
celebrities suing over tabloid photos.  “She could obtain a large amount of damages, by French
standards,” said Colin, due to the size of the six-page spread
and the fact that she was topless on private property.  While France has tougher privacy rules than Britain,
neither country’s laws are strong enough to discourage tabloids
from violating a celebrity’s privacy to get front-page scoops,
said  Mark Stephens , a media lawyer in London who has worked on
privacy cases involving the royal family.  ‘Too Weak’  “They can’t use the courts to reverse the trends -- the
law is too weak and ineffectual to assist them in this case,”
Stephens said in a phone interview. “Post-publication
punishments are clearly an insufficient deterrent -- it’s a
major problem at the moment in France and the U.K.”  Privacy lawsuits against French tabloids are common and are
usually resolved with damage awards of between 1,000 euros
($1,300) and 15,000 euros, as well as printed notices telling
readers the tabloid was condemned in court, said Christophe
Bigot, a Paris-based media lawyer who hasn’t represented Closer.  French privacy fines are set “based on personal suffering,
and traditionally French judges assess these indemnities much
lower than Anglo-Saxon judges,” Bigot said in a phone
interview.  Since Middleton was hidden from view, her award would 
probably be in the higher range, as much as 10,000 euros, 
though there is no specific limit to such awards, he said.  French Damages  While Closer could get “clobbered” for damages in France
and other countries in which the photos may be published, the
magazine has bought notoriety that can’t be gained through
traditional advertising, said Stephens, who represents  Bloomberg
News  in some media cases.  “The notoriety of the Prince Harry photographs has taught
publishers a lesson that they can engage with the viral use of
images and gather a lot of attention,” Stephens said. The
attention won may seem to be worth a court battle, he said.  News Corp.’s U.K. publisher, News International, said in an
Aug. 23 statement about the Prince Harry photos that printing
them was a matter of “freedom of the press” and that the
images had already been seen online by millions of people
worldwide after being published by the U.S. gossip website
TMZ.com.  Hotel Party  Sun Managing Editor David Dinsmore made the choice after
the royal family sent legal letters to British newspapers urging
them not to use the images, taken by a phone at a hotel party,
because doing so would be a violation Prince Harry’s privacy.
The Sun won’t publish the Middleton photos because she was in a
private area, Dinsmore said.  “The Sun has no intention of breaching the royal couple’s
privacy by publishing these intrusive pictures,” Dinsmore said
in a Sept. 14 statement. “The circumstances are very different
to those relating to the photos of Prince Harry in  Las Vegas .”  Stephens said the photos in the Sun and Closer both
represent a “watershed” moment illustrating the traditional
media’s desire to keep up with the free flow of information
online. Similar photos of Diana and Prince William’s father
Prince Charles, taken years ago, weren’t seen by as many people
or as quickly, he said.  Private Grounds  The photographs of Middleton couldn’t have been taken
unless the photographer was on the private grounds of the
estate, meaning a law was most likely broken, said Stephens.  “A criminal offense has been committed in order to obtain
the photograph,” Stephens said. “It is my understanding that
trespassing in France as in  England  is a criminal offense.”  Tabloids in Britain have been under scrutiny since a phone-
hacking conspiracy was uncovered at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the
World tabloid and police started arresting Sun journalists over
alleged bribes paid to public officials. A judge who oversaw a
media ethics inquiry triggered by the scandals will file a
report on the industry and possible new regulations by the end
of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  