-- Kone Looking at South America After 11-Year Break as China Cools
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-09-17T13:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/kone-looking-at-south-america-after-11-year-break-as-china-cools.html
Kone Oyj (KNEBV) , the elevator supplier to
Dubai’s 1,080-foot Infinity Tower and London’s Shard, may
reenter the South American market after an 11-year break as it
prepares for a potential slowdown in China.  The return to the  region  would probably be made via an
acquisition of a local company and Kone has identified a “few
interesting targets that could help establish a position
there,” Chief Financial Officer Henrik Ehrnrooth said in an
interview. “We will only reenter the market if we find an
attractive and sustainable model of entering.”  Kone is seeking to reverse course after its 2001 sale of
operations in Brazil,  Argentina ,  Venezuela  and  Chile  to
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  because they lacked scale. The units generated
just 1 percent of sales at the time. The Helsinki-based company
is budgeting for the boom in Chinese construction to tail off,
and is seeking to secure as many after-sales service contracts
as possible in preparation.  “In recent years, we’ve bought around 20 companies a year;
most have been maintenance companies,” Ehrnrooth said. “That
is definitely a high-focus area for us.”  Ehrnrooth joined Kone in 2009 from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., where he worked as a managing director in the investment
banking unit. In his banker past, Ehrnrooth mostly had an
advisory role in corporate acquisitions and capital market
transactions, often working with industrial companies’ strategic
development, he said Sept. 14.  Credible Return Needed  “As they’ve left the region once before, the return would
have to be credible,” Pekka Spolander, an analyst at Pohjola
Bank Oyj said. “It would require a significant move.”  China ’s booming construction has been the main driver for
new equipment, amounting to 64 percent of 610,000 elevators and
escalators sold last year, Kone estimated in June. The company’s
sales in Asia grew 31 percent last year, amounting to 27 percent
of total revenue.  Years of Asian growth has left new equipment sales
accounting for about half of Kone’s business, compared with 40
to 45 percent historically, Ehrnrooth said.  “Kone will rise or fall together with China’s
construction,” Erkki Vesola, an analyst at  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  said by
phone. “China’s share has been so incredibly large that
whatever happens there will show up first in Kone’s order
books.”  Emerging Markets  China’s economy , the world’s second largest, expanded 7.6
percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace in three years.
Any slowdown in that market increases pressure on the company to
expand in other emerging economies. Kone is struggling against
record unemployment, tougher lending conditions and slumping
construction in the euro area.  Europe’s construction meltdown is forcing elevator
suppliers such as United Technologies Corp.’s Otis,  Schindler
Holding AG (SCHP)  and ThyssenKrupp AG to adapt their businesses as
government spending cuts, especially in Southern Europe, have
reduced new residential building.  The focus on modernization and product innovation has grown
in importance as businesses try to revive demand in markets that
don’t need more elevators. Europe, the Middle East and Africa
account for about 51 percent of elevators and escalators in
operation, Kone  estimated  on June 8.  “Even though we’ve had a challenging market situation,
we’ve invested significant resources and amounts in product
development,” Ehrnrooth said. Kone introduced a new elevator
range on June 7, “our most important product launch in 16
years,” according to Ehrnrooth.  Malaysia, Philippines  Schindler last week announced plans to build an escalator
plant in  India  to prepare for future demand as the region’s
urbanization develops.  “We do see  South America  as a market that offers
interesting long-term growth opportunities,” Ehrnrooth said.
Southeast Asian countries including  Malaysia , the  Philippines ,
Indonesia and India have similar prospects, both in services and
new equipment, he said.  India’s market will continue to grow long after China has
slowed down, Pohjola’s Spolander said.  “Hopefully, when the new equipment sales start cooling
down, the maintenance side has grown big enough to compensate,”
the analyst said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  