-- Koons Basketball Meets Drunken Hercules in Bronze Show
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-09-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/koons-basketball-meets-drunken-hercules-in-bronze-show.html
An exhibition has opened in  London 
with, if not everything, virtually everyone in it: Romans,
Greeks, Indians, Germans, Chinese and Africans, plus Picasso,
Donatello, Matisse, Ghiberti,  Anish Kapoor , possibly  Leonardo da
Vinci , and certainly his nephew.  “Bronze”  at the  Royal Academy  of Arts (Sept. 15 to Dec.
9) is a unique kind of show, because it’s devoted not to a
style, period or place, but to a metal alloy.  Bronze equals copper with a dash of tin. Yet the  Royal
Academy  has stretched the point, and included a bit of brass --
copper plus zinc -- as well. Giving the show a metallic theme
also makes it amazingly inclusive. The premise is that just
about all peoples, for thousands of years, have made art from
bronze.  The major exception is with the inhabitants of the Americas
before 1492, who didn’t know about the stuff. The show does
include plenty of later American artists, such as  Jasper Johns ,
 Jeff Koons  (represented by a basketball) and Willem de Kooning.  Otherwise, from the 4th millennium B.C. onwards, bronze
sculpture has been a constant in an extraordinary range of human
cultures. Many of the most riveting artworks are extremely old,
among them the euphoric Greek “Dancing Satyr” (4th century
B.C.), fished off the coast of Sicily in 1998, which opens the
show. The most recent, a bronze mirror by Anish Kapoor, was made
this year.  Rodin, Giacometti  Taking this fact and running with it, the organizers have
arranged the show by theme, rather than date or geography. In
the stunning gallery devoted to sculptures of figures, you find
works by Rodin and Giacometti side-by-side with predecessors
from medieval  Nigeria , ancient  Rome  and Renaissance Florence.  From Florence, in fact, comes a showstopper that Leonardo
just might have been involved with.  “St. John the Baptist Preaching to a Levite and a
Pharisee” (1506-11) has always been attributed to a younger
friend of the great man’s, Giovan Francesco Rustici. Yet as the
16th-century art historian Giorgio Vasari recorded, “some
believe, without knowing it for a fact, that Leonardo worked on
it with his own hand.”  The extraordinary naturalism of the bald figure on the
right makes it easy to understand why that rumor went around.
(Leonardo’s nephew Pierino da Vinci, who died at age 23,
features in the section devoted to reliefs.)  Bronze Lasts  One of the unique qualities of bronze is that it lasts so
well, it collapses your sense of time.   The Rustici group -- which has been standing for 500 years 
in all weather conditions above one of the doors of the Florence
Baptistery -- actually looks older than the life-size portrait 
of Lucius Mammius Maximus (41-54 A.D.), a Roman inhabitant of 
Herculaneum. In fact, Lucius looks as if he could have been cast 
yesterday.  You get that effect throughout the exhibition: very old art
next to much newer art, on equal terms.  In the two rooms devoted to animal sculptures, the
wonderful and weird Etruscan “Chimaera of Arezzo” (c. 400
B.C.) -- a lion with a goat’s head bursting out of its back and
a snake for a tail -- takes on Picasso’s “Baboon and Young”
(1951), a monkey with a toy car for a head.  What’s more, in this two-and-a-half-thousand-year contest,
the ancient Etruscan artist wins. In fact, the old stuff looks
extremely good all through the show.  Not all the themed galleries are quite as gripping as the
ones filled with figures and animals. Some works didn’t grab me
(a huge and hideous bronze incense burner from 19th-century
 Japan , for instance).  Overall, however, I’ve never seen a sculpture exhibition so
packed with masterpieces of so many different varieties.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art and
 James Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 