-- New Mexico’s Yates Family Said to Seek Buyer for Oil Firm
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-09-17T21:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/new-mexico-s-yates-family-said-to-seek-buyer-for-oil-firm.html
Yates Petroleum Corp., one of the
largest closely held U.S. oil producers, is seeking a buyer in a
transaction that may generate billions of dollars, said three
people with knowledge of the matter.  The company, controlled by members of  New Mexico ’s Yates
family, has solicited bids in recent days from some of the
world’s biggest  oil companies , said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the matter is private. The
company is working with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the people said.  Yates’s finances aren’t public, making it difficult for
outsiders to estimate how much the company might be worth. Oil &
Gas Financial Journal  estimated in 2009  that Artesia, New
Mexico-based Yates was the fourth-largest private oil and
natural-gas company in the U.S., producing the equivalent of
8.77 million barrels of oil.  A sale may be the largest of a family-owned  oil company 
since a KKR & Co.-led group bought Samson Investment Co. for
$7.2 billion last year. Two different arms of Tulsa, Oklahoma-
based Samson, owned by the Schusterman family, were ranked third
and fifth on Oil & Gas Financial Journal’s list, with a total of
22 million barrels of production.  The Yates family is seeking to complete a transaction
before the end of the year, when the U.S. income tax rate on
 capital gains  is due to increase, the people said. Members have
also discussed selling shares to the public, the people said.  James Lucas, a spokesman for Yates Petroleum, said the
company doesn’t comment on speculation. Tasha Pelio, a
spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to comment.  Permian Basin  Yates may be seeking to benefit from growing interest among
major oil companies in the Permian Basin, an oil-rich stretch of
west Texas and southern New Mexico, which had its first oil boom
almost a century ago. It’s the most active drilling area in the
U.S., according to Bloomberg Industries.  “When you look for potential opportunities in adding and
growing a resource base, the Permian Basin is clearly one that
stands out,”  Scott Hanold , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets
LLC in Minneapolis, said in a telephone interview today. “The
advent of some of the new horizontal technology is just starting
to take hold in the Permian.”  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , and  Apache Corp. (APA)  have
all agreed to major acquisitions in the Permian Basin since the
start of 2010. That year, Concho Resources Inc. bought the
assets of Yates’ crosstown rival, closely held Marbob Energy
Corp., for $1.65 billion.  Wildcatters  Wildcatter Martin Yates Jr. pioneered oil and gas
exploration in New Mexico in the 1920s, when,  according to
family lore , his wife’s intuition directed him to the location
of his first successful well. His grandchildren are now involved
in the business.  Different branches of the family control affiliated oil and
gas companies, adding to the complexity of a potential sale, the
people said. As many as 20 different Yates companies, backed by
different family members, sometimes compete against each other
for projects, the  New York  Times  reported  in 2004.  Yates was the largest holder of leases to drill for oil and
gas on U.S. government land, according to a 2004  report  by
Environmental Working Group, a Washington-based organization
that is critical of the government’s leasing policies. The
company operates in 13 states, with most of its production in
New Mexico and  Wyoming , according to a 2009  statement  by one of
Yates’ technology vendors.  One related company, Yates Drilling Co., was sold to
 Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  in 2010,  the New Mexico Business
Weekly reported  that year, citing sources including an executive
at another local oil company. Neither Yates Drilling nor
Occidental confirmed the sale to the Business Weekly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  