-- News Corp. Sued for Phone Hacking by Katie Price, Dr. Who
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-09-17T17:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/news-corp-sued-for-phone-hacking-by-katie-price-dr-who.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. publishing unit
was sued by at least 43 more victims of phone hacking by its
now-defunct News of the World tabloid, including “Dr. Who”
actor Christopher Eccleston and English model Katie Price.  The lawsuits were filed Sept. 14 in London and made public
today, court records show. The unit, News International, was
sued last week by about three dozen other victims, including
British actor  Hugh Grant  and  Sarah Ferguson , the Duchess of
York, to meet a deadline for joining a group civil trial
scheduled to begin sometime after May 1.  With the new cases, more than 130 people have sued since
February. Victims are joining the case after being told by
police that details about them were found among the notes of
 Glenn Mulcaire , the tabloid’s former private investigator who
was jailed for phone hacking in 2007.  The tabloid targeted some of the best-known celebrities,
including U.S. actors  Brad Pitt  and Angelina Jolie and England
soccer player Wayne Rooney, prosecutors said in July. Rebekah Brooks, the ex-chief executive officer of News International,
and seven others were charged with conspiring between 2000 and
2006 to hack the voice mail of more than 600 people.  Other public figures who sued last week include former U.K.
Labour Party Leader Neil Kinnock, comedian  Russell Brand ,
Manchester United soccer player Rio Ferdinand, English lingerie
model Gemma Atkinson and former Scottish lawmaker Tommy Sheridan, who previously sued the publisher in 2006 over a story
alleging he was involved in a sex scandal, claims he denied.  Lewis Lawsuits  Mark Lewis , the U.K. lawyer who represented some of the
first-known victims of phone hacking, is also among the group
that sued last week. His ex-wife Shelley Lewis and daughter Orli
filed a separate case that day, alleging surveillance by a
private investigator.  Rupert Murdoch , chairman of New York-based News Corp.,
closed the News of the World in July 2011 to help contain public
anger after revelations it hacked the phone of murdered British
schoolgirl Milly Dowler, who went missing in 2002 and became the
subject of front-page stories.  A message left at News International’s press office wasn’t
immediately returned. Brand’s lawyer, Roddy Chisholm Batten of
the law firm Clintons in  London , didn’t immediately return a
call for comment. Eccleston’s lawyer, Mike Brookes of Lee &
Thompson LLP, didn’t return a call.  The civil lawsuits are being handled as a single case to
establish a common set of claims and facts about the hacking
conspiracy and set standards for money damages. A trial that had
been scheduled for February 2012 was canceled that month after
an earlier wave of victims reached settlements as high as
600,000 pounds ($975,500).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  