-- NFL Reviews Replacement Officials’ Social-Media Behavior as Fans
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-09-17T18:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/nfl-reviews-replacement-officials-social-media-behavior-as-fans.html
The  National Football League  is
reviewing the behavior of its replacement officials on social-
media websites after replacing a crew member assigned to call
the New Orleans Saints’ game yesterday because photos on
Facebook showed him wearing the team’s gear.  As the NFL yesterday drew increased criticism in its second
week of games without regular officials because of a lockout,
the league’s decision to replace side judge Brian Stropolo with
alternate Tim Keese was done “to avoid any appearance of
conflict,”  Greg Aiello , an NFL spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Stropolo, a Louisiana resident,  posted photos of himself 
wearing a shirt and hat with the Saints’ logo on them while
tailgating during an Aug. 25 preseason game, said ESPN. The
league didn’t know about Stropolo’s allegiance to the team until
it was contacted by ESPN, the network said.  “We are doing a thorough review of the situation involving
the current officials and social-media sites,” Aiello said.  The replacement officials have been recruited from the
second level of college football and lower.  A voicemail message left at the office of Mike Arnold, the
chief negotiator for the NFL Referees Association, wasn’t
immediately returned. Tim Millis, the NFLRA’s executive
director, declined to comment on the replacement officials’
performance in a telephone interview.  After Week 1 yielded few complaints about the replacement
officials’ performance, yesterday’s games drew criticism from
players.  Ravens’ Complaints  Baltimore Ravens linebacker  Ray Lewis  and quarterback  Joe Flacco  were among the most vocal, saying there were several
officiating errors in their team’s 24-23 loss at the
 Philadelphia Eagles .  “There’s some serious calls the refs missed, and it’s just
the way it is all around the league,” Lewis told reporters.  Flacco told reporters that the substitutes are “affecting
the integrity of the game.”  Aiello said that the work of on-field officials “is never
perfect.”  “The current officials have made great strides and are
performing admirably under unprecedented scrutiny and great
pressure,” the league spokesman said. “As we do every season,
we will work to improve officiating and are confident that the
game officials will show continued improvement.”  Pay, pensions and operational issues have kept the NFL and
the referees’ union from reaching a new labor deal. The league
so far has made a schedule for the replacements to work through
Week 5 of the regular season, ESPN said.  “We are ready to negotiate at any time with the NFLRA,”
Aiello said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  