-- NHL Owners Impose Lockout as Malkin, Gonchar Head to Russia
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-17T04:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/nhl-owners-impose-lockout-as-malkin-gonchar-head-to-russia.html
The  National Hockey League  has
locked out its players for the second time in seven seasons and
All-Stars Evgeni Malkin and Sergei Gonchar already signed
contracts to play in  Russia  during the work stoppage.  The players were locked out after the league and the NHL
Players’ Association were unable to come to an agreement on a
new labor deal before the midnight Sept. 15 deadline. NHL
Commissioner Gary Bettman and NHLPA executive director Don Fehr
had exchanged contract proposals during meetings in New York
over the previous four days.  It’s the NHL’s third lockout in 18 years. The 1994-95
campaign was shortened to 48 games, while the 2004-05 season was
canceled and the  Stanley Cup  not awarded for the first time
since 1919. The 2012-13 season is scheduled to begin Oct. 11.  “This is a time of year for all attention to be focused on
the ice, not on a meeting room,” the NHL  said in a letter  to
fans yesterday. “The league, the clubs and the players all have
a stake in resolving our bargaining issues appropriately and
getting the puck dropped as soon as possible. We owe it to each
other, to the game and, most of all, to the fans.”  Malkin, who won last season’s Hart Trophy as the NHL’s Most
Valuable Player with the  Pittsburgh Penguins , signed a deal to
play with Russia’s Metallurg Magnitogorsk, according to the
Kontinental Hockey League club’s website. Malkin, 26, had 50
goals and 59 assists last season.  Gonchar, a 38-year-old defenseman with the  Ottawa Senators ,
also signed with Mettalurg. Both players can terminate the KHL
deals and return to the NHL if the lockout ends. The KHL has
limited its 26 teams to signing a maximum of three players each
from locked-out NHL teams.  Compensation, Revenue  NHL deputy commissioner Bill Daly said in a Sept. 15
statement that neither the league nor the players was willing to
move off of its last proposal. The sides are arguing over player
compensation and revenue sharing.  “I’m sure we will keep in touch in the coming days and
schedule meetings to the extent they might be useful or
appropriate,” Daly said. “We are sorry for where we are. Not
what we hoped or expected.”  The players’ union was prepared to meet two days ago prior
to the deadline, said Steve Fehr, special counsel to the NHLPA.  “The NHL said that it saw no purpose in having a formal
meeting,” he said in an e-mailed statement. “There have been
and continue to be private, informal discussions between
representatives of both sides.”  Owners’ Offer  On Sept. 12, owners offered players 47 percent of hockey-
related revenue, with a loss of about $256 million in player
salaries next year. The offer was one percentage point more than
in their previous proposal, Don Fehr said. Under the latest
deal, players received 57 percent.  The union’s Sept. 12 offer, according to Don Fehr, tied the
players’ share to revenue growth, with the proportion decreasing
as hockey-related revenue increased. Under the plan, should
league revenue grow at the same rate as the past 10 years, the
players’ share would decrease to 54.3 percent in the first year,
then 52.5 percent, 52.0 percent and rise to 52.3 percent in the
fourth year, he said.  Other contentious issues include salary arbitration and the
length of unrestricted free agency.  The league’s total revenue, buoyed by a 10-year, $2 billion
television contract with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, swelled to an
estimated record $3.2 billion last season from $2.2 billion in
2006, according to the NHL. The league hasn’t said how much of
this year’s revenue is profit.  Before the start of the 2011-12 season, the average NHL
player salary was $2.4 million, up from about $1.5 million when
the agreement began at the start of the 2005-06 season.  In comparison, the average National Basketball Association
player salary was $5.15 million, the highest among the U.S.’s
four major sports leagues, for 2011-12. The average salary for a
National Football League player was $1.9 million, the lowest of
the four leagues, with  Major League Baseball ’s $3.3 million
average salary ranking second behind the NBA.  The current collective bargaining agreement was reached
after the 2004-05 season was wiped out.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  