-- Obama’s Short-Run Fixes Neglect Long-Term Reform
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-09-17T22:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/obama-s-short-run-fixes-neglect-long-term-reform.html
Should voters blame President
 Barack Obama  for America’s current economic malaise?  The  Mitt Romney  campaign, hard as it tries, will find it
difficult to convince moderates that Obama completely mishandled
the short-term stimulus. Their better argument is that the
president focused too much on the immediate crisis, and did too
little for the future. That  future  is already upon us.  Obama took office in 2009, in the middle of an economic
crisis he didn’t create. At worst, he was only one of many
members of Congress who  failed  to support a 2005 bill to reform
those benighted mortgage behemoths:  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .
As president, he has faced constant headwinds, most recently
from  Europe , but he has chosen to respond to these troubles with
short-run fixes that missed opportunities to carry out more
lasting reforms.  The automotive-industry crisis illustrates the conflict
between short- and long-term objectives. When  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and Chrysler Group LLC were in a freefall, Obama chose a
bailout, a solution that probably saved thousands of jobs and
stopped a bad situation from getting worse. Bailouts come at a
high cost, however, because the promise of federal largess
discourages painful restructuring and corporate breakups that
can create nimbler, more competitive companies.  The short-run answer isn’t always wrong, and the bailout
may have been better than any alternative. But the president
should have ensured that industry and labor unions understood
this was a one-time, unfortunate event.  Big Commitment  Instead, he  announced  that “I believe the nation that
invented the automobile cannot walk away from it,” which sounds
like an open-ended commitment (as well as demonstrating
ignorance about the German origins of the car powered by the
internal-combustion engine).  More generally, it is hard to argue that the  stimulus
package  -- $772 billion as of  Sept.  12 -- was too large given
the depths of the recession. But it is fair to claim that the
administration failed to couple short-term palliatives with a
more sustainable, long-range economic plan.  The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act had four
important elements: significant tax cuts, especially in the
 payroll tax ; big increases in entitlements, particularly
 unemployment-insurance  extensions; grants to states, which
primarily went for Medicaid and education  assistance ; and direct
 government spending , mainly for transportation and
infrastructure. Some of these initiatives were sensible, others
were less so, but all dealt with near-term exigencies.  The tax cuts were generally sound and supported by
Republicans and Democrats. Reducing the payroll tax and
expanding the earned-income tax credit put money in people’s
pockets, and increased the incentive to work.  Even so, Obama missed a chance to show more commitment to
fiscal rectitude for the long haul. He could have insisted that
the younger workers who benefited from lower payroll taxes cover
the cost of those cuts by accepting a slightly higher  retirement
age  for  Social Security .  Other tax breaks, such as the first-time-homebuyer tax
credit, which was heartily supported by Republicans, created
benefits so short-lived as to be positively ephemeral. The
credit generated only a temporary increase in  housing prices 
from May 2009 to May 2010; they began declining again when the
incentive was phased out in the summer of 2010. Delaying the
housing market’s transition to a new, lower plateau by a year
seems like a small return for $10.4 billion in lost revenue.  As for entitlements, we spent $61 billion on extra
unemployment insurance, expanding the weeks that the jobless
could receive benefits from 26 to 99. In addition, spending on
 food stamps   ballooned  from $30 billion to $72 billion from 2007
to 2011, as benefits were made more generous and restrictions on
receiving aid were lifted.  Discouraging Work  These entitlement programs enabled people to spend, which
may have helped the economy. More important, they assisted needy
Americans. But extending the duration of unemployment insurance
also created a strong incentive for people to stay out of work.
A famous  paper  by the economist Bruce Meyer demonstrated that
people work less when benefits rise and that the unemployed go
back to work right before their unemployment-insurance benefits
end. Food-stamp payments  decrease  by 30 cents with every extra
dollar earned, which discourages people from trying to make more
money.  Unemployment “hysteresis” can  set in  when people spend
serious time out of the workforce -- as some Obama
administration officials recognize -- which makes it dangerous
to pay people not to work. The relief could have been combined
with incentives to reduce prolonged joblessness. The
administration might have considered one-time lump-sum payments
to those affected, instead of limiting the aid to continued
unemployment, which provides almost two years of financial
incentives not to work.  The third leg of the stimulus act’s four-legged stool was
aid to states: $50 billion for education and $89 billion for
Medicaid grants. Because states, unlike the federal government,
have to balance their budgets during economic declines, the aid
from  Washington  reduced their need to lower spending and raise
taxes.  But in a better world, states would have rainy-day funds,
following the biblical Joseph’s advice of accumulating assets
during good times. This would mean service levels could be
maintained during temporary recessions. The Obama administration
could have moved states in that direction, by linking assistance
to a requirement that they commit to saving more during booms.  The least defensible part of the stimulus package was the
 direct federal spending , $66 billion of which predominantly went
toward transportation and infrastructure. It is impossible to
build public works both quickly and wisely, meaning they are
terrible candidates for a short-term boost to the economy.  Useless Projects  These projects are often high-tech operations, employing a
few skilled engineers rather than the masses of high-school
dropouts. Moreover, the government has an unfortunate knack for
picking politically motivated, foolish projects, from  Detroit ’s
People Mover monorail to high-speed rail outside the Northeast
corridor.  You would think Republicans would squawk about
infrastructure spending. But the party’s platform bizarrely
 complains  in the “the vaunted stimulus package, less than 6
percent of the funds went to transportation.”  Spending any general  tax revenue  on projects such as roads
is a mistake, as fiscal purists going back to  Adam Smith  have
argued. Highways should be funded by user fees, such as tolls
and gas taxes. By increasing the use of general tax revenue for
these purposes, Obama set a bad precedent, which is reflected in
the recent  highway bill  that directs $18.8 billion to subsidize
drivers in low-density states. A better path would have been to
push for public-private partnerships that would build today, but
be financed by future user fees.  To be fair, the president has pushed some far-reaching
reforms, notably the Race to the Top program, which sets higher
standards for education and invests in human capital, the
nation’s most important long-term resource. His mistake was that
he let health care, not education, dominate his first term.  The recession did call for a short-term stimulus, perhaps
even a larger one than the U.S. received, but long-run growth
requires fiscal stability, robust corporate and individual
incentives, and limited regulation.  Luckily for Obama, and unfortunately for the country, the
Republicans have yet to show that they have the wisdom and
character to be better long-term stewards of the economy. They
have squandered much time and now have less than two months to
make that case.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how Congress has let
companies  shortchange pension funds  and on the Obama
administration’s  trade dispute with China ; Adam Minter on
 China’s anti-Japanese riots ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on the  makers versus
takers election ; Shikha Dalmia on why  immigrants can’t save U.S.
cities  by themselves; Harvey S. Rosen on economic growth from
Romney’s  tax-reform plan .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 