-- Obama, Romney Trade Substance for Politics on China
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-17T23:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/obama-romney-trade-substance-for-politics-on-china.html
American voters deserve a
substantive debate between the presidential candidates about how
the U.S. can manage China’s rise as a powerful economic and
geopolitical rival in the coming decades.  Unfortunately, President  Barack Obama  and the Republican
nominee,  Mitt Romney , have so far been unwilling to have that
discussion.  Instead, the candidates have waged a war of words that
gives voters oversimplified -- and sometimes false --
explanations of a vital and complex issue. Obama accuses Romney
of sending jobs to China and other overseas destinations as co-
founder of Bain Capital LLC, the private-equity firm. Romney
calls Obama the “outsourcer-in-chief” for overseeing the
diversion of millions of dollars in stimulus funds to foreign
companies. Fact-checking groups have debunked the claims, yet
both sides continue to make them.  The one-upmanship reached a new level this week when Obama
announced that the U.S. has lodged a complaint with the  World
Trade Organization  that China illegally subsidized  exports  of
automobiles and auto parts, and illegally imposed duties on U.S.
car exports. It surely was no coincidence that he made this
announcement at a campaign stop in  Ohio , a battleground state
where the car-parts industry employs 54,200 people and 12.4
percent of all workers are linked to the auto sector. Oh, and
early voting begins in Ohio in 15 days.  The WTO complaint asserts that the Chinese government
provided at least $1 billion in subsidies that benefited as much
as 60 percent of Chinese car-parts exports. These subsidies put
U.S. component manufacturers at a competitive disadvantage,
which encourages outsourcing to China, the U.S. said.  Submissive Approach  Romney dismissed the move as an electoral ploy that in any
case was “too little, too late.” He has made what he says is the
administration’s submissive approach to China a centerpiece of
his campaign and has vowed, if elected, to designate the Beijing
government as a currency manipulator on his first day in office.  There is no reason to doubt the validity of the
administration’s charges, though it’s worth asking whether the
U.S. hasn’t engaged in similar behavior in providing almost $80
billion in direct aid, stimulus funds and loans to rescue the
 auto industry  in recent years. Nor, for that matter, is Romney
wrong to accuse China of keeping the exchange value of its
currency artificially low to fuel its exports machine. It is
even appropriate to point out that  China’s growing clout  has
been built in no small measure on a disregard for the rules of
international trade.  But it doesn’t help the cause to make China a scapegoat for
manufacturing job losses and threaten a  trade war  over its fixed
exchange rates. The reality is that the U.S. and Chinese
economies are inextricably tied -- China holds about $1 trillion
of  U.S. debt , and American consumers buy billions of dollars’
worth of Chinese goods every year. Besides,  China  has gradually
let its currency rise against the dollar. Applying more pressure
could have the opposite effect, because China loathes looking as
if it’s capitulating to the U.S.  The issue is too important to be weaponized into sound
bites to score political points in the heartland. Both
candidates should acknowledge that bluster can only worsen the
dynamics of this crucial relationship. They should explain
instead how they intend to maintain the U.S.’s long-term
competitiveness.  The global economy is here to stay, for good and bad.
Rising powers such as China and  India , with more than 2 billion
potential consumers for U.S. goods and services, need to be
coaxed to play by the rules of international trade because of
the benefits it provides, not to avoid the threat of retaliation
if they don’t. How best to do that is the discussion we wish
Obama and Romney would have.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how Congress has let
companies  shortchange pension funds ;  Edward Glaeser  on Obama’s
missed chances for  long-term economic reform ; Adam Minter on
 China’s anti-Japanese riots ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on the  makers versus
takers election ; Shikha Dalmia on why  immigrants can’t save U.S.
cities  by themselves; Harvey S. Rosen on economic growth from
Romney’s  tax-reform plan .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 