-- Obama to Announce Trade Complaint Against China in Ohio
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-09-17T04:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/obama-to-announce-trade-complaint-against-china-in-ohio.html
The Obama administration will
announce a trade complaint against China today as President
 Barack Obama  campaigns in  Ohio , alleging impermissible subsidies
of auto- and auto-parts exports that encourage outsourcing to
China from the U.S., an administration official said.  Obama and Republican  Mitt Romney  have been trading
accusations over China in the closing weeks of the presidential
campaign. Obama is expected to defend his record on U.S. jobs
and China policy during stops in Cincinnati and Columbus today.  This latest case to go before the  World Trade Organization 
in Geneva is being announced as Obama returns to a battleground
state with 54,200 residents employed by the auto-parts industry
and 12.4 percent of the state’s total employment related to the
 auto industry .  The U.S. is accusing  China  of $1 billion in illegal
subsidies between 2009-11 that benefit as much as 60 percent of
Chinese auto-parts exports, according to the official, who asked
to speak on condition of anonymity in advance of the public
announcement.  The Romney campaign last week began airing an ad, “Failing
American Workers,” that blames Obama for the U.S. loss of
manufacturing jobs, notes China surpassing the U.S. in
manufacturing jobs and criticizes Obama for not declaring China
a currency manipulator.  Competing Ads  Obama’s campaign responded with an ad saying Bain Capital
LLC, the private equity firm Romney co-founded, invested in
companies that specialize in sending jobs to other countries,
including China, and that Romney has invested in China.
“Romney’s never stood up to China,” the ad’s narrator says.
“All he’s done is send them our jobs.”  “The China trade issue is likely to get more limelight as
the election heats up,” Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said in
a telephone interview today. “Both camps need to raise the
protectionism tone to cater to voter sentiment as unemployment
is still stuck above 8 percent.”  Such rhetoric will likely be toned down following the polls,
as the competitiveness of the U.S. auto industry will suffer
should they impose sanctions on imports of relatively cheap
Chinese parts, said Liu, who previously worked at the  World Bank .  In July, the Obama administration filed a WTO complaint
accusing China of imposing unfair duties on $3.3 billion in U.S.
auto exports. That filing came on the same day the president
began a bus tour of Ohio and  Pennsylvania .  Auto Bailout  Obama also has said on the campaign trail that his taxpayer
rescue of the auto industry in 2009 helped save jobs in states
including Ohio, while Romney opposed the U.S. taxpayer bailout.  In Columbus, Obama will also attend a fundraiser with 25
guests paying $10,000 per ticket, according to a campaign
official who requested anonymity because she was not authorized
to make a public statement. Proceeds go to the Obama Victory
Fund, a joint committee for the Obama campaign,  Democratic
National Committee  and several state Democratic parties.  Ohio, with 18 electoral votes, has voted for the winner in
every presidential election since 1964. Obama is leading
Republican Mitt Romney by 4.2 percentage points, 48.5 percent to
44.3 percent, in an average of four polls conducted Sept. 7-12
and compiled by the website Real Clear Politics.  The state’s unemployment rate was 7.2 percent in July,
lower than the national rate of 8.1 percent in August and down
from a state high of 10.6 percent in January 2010, according to
the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .  Ohio ranked sixth among the 50 states in its rate of
improving economic health, according to the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States from the first quarter of 2011 through the
first quarter of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  