-- Obama Election Odds Rise in Tandem With S&P 500: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-09-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/obama-election-odds-rise-in-tandem-with-s-p-500-bgov-barometer.html
Wagers on President Barack Obama’s
re-election are rising in tandem with stock prices, just as the
fortunes of his Republican predecessor  George W. Bush  did in
2004, suggesting incumbency counts more than party affiliation
in the markets.  The BGOV Barometer shows the probability Obama, a Democrat,
will win a second term, as measured by the online prediction
market  Intrade , has risen and fallen in close alignment with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Intrade odds of an Obama victory
reached a 16-month peak last week as the  S&P 500 (SPX)  advanced to the
highest level since 2007.  Markets may not be responding to policies so much as to a
preference for incumbents, Capital Economics senior U.S.
economist  Paul Dales  in London said in Sept. 5 commentary
titled, “Is the stock market cheering for Obama?” In 2004 the
outlook for Bush’s reelection, in a race with Democrat  John Kerry , also rose and fell with stock prices, he said.  “Markets like certainty,” Dales said. “The market
doesn’t really prefer one party to another. With an incumbent,
you know what the policies have been and how they will deal with
things.”  A chart overlaying the  S&P 500  and the Obama election odds
indicates the president would likely have a greater-than-50
percent chance of winning so long as the index stays over 1,200,
which seems probable, Dales said. The S&P 500 has risen 17
percent this year and closed at 1465.77 on Sept. 14, the highest
since Dec. 31, 2007.  Re-Election Odds  Odds of an Obama re-election rose to 64.8 percent as of
Sept. 14, up from about 50 percent in December, according to
Intrade. Polls show Obama taking a lead versus Romney following
the Democratic and Republican conventions. Fifty percent favored
Obama and 43 percent Romney in a Gallup poll Sept. 5-Sept. 11.  Both Obama’s odds and the S&P 500 have been boosted by
“the state of the economy,” particularly as “the Eurozone
situation has become stronger,” Dales said. “That seems to
have had a beneficial effect on equities as well as Obama’s
chances.”  Economists who have served in Democratic and Republican
administrations disagreed on whether the correlation of
presidential re-election odds and the stock market has any
significance.  Democratic administrations have tended to favor
expansionary policies that have boosted job growth, said Harvard
University economist  Jeffrey Frankel , who was a member of the
U.S. Council of Economic Advisors in  Bill Clinton ’s
administration.  Market Reaction  “The markets realize this, not in the sense that they try
to boost one candidate or another, but in the sense that they
react positively when measures like Obama’s fiscal proposals
pass and negatively when the Republicans block them,” he said.  Harvard University economist  Martin Feldstein , who was
chief economic adviser to Republican President  Ronald Reagan ,
disagreed and called the relationship a “coincidence.”  “This sounds like a spurious correlation due to the two
well-known perceived effects of good and bad economic news,”
said Stanford University economist  John B. Taylor , a Treasury
undersecretary in Bush’s administration and a supporter of
Romney.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  