-- OCZ Technology CEO Resigns, Seen as Takeover Target
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-09-18T20:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/ocz-technology-s-petersen-quits-as-ceo-mei-named-interim-chief.html
  OCZ Technology Group Inc. (OCZ) , a maker
of solid-state disk drives, is poised to become a more
attractive acquisition target with the resignation yesterday of
Chief Executive Officer Ryan Petersen, analysts said.  Memory chip supply shortages forced OCZ to report
preliminary second-quarter sales this month that missed earlier
forecasts. The fall in the  San Jose , California-based company’s
shares -- 38 percent this year -- could draw an acquirer looking
to profit from the shift to flash memory in personal computers
and video games.  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  and  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  could be
among potential buyers as they look to benefit from the growing
flash-technology market, according to Piper Jaffray Cos. OCZ’s
revenue is expected to more than double over the next two fiscal
years, according to the average analyst  estimate  compiled by
Bloomberg.  “With continued rumors that OCZ is a likely takeout
candidate, we believe having the founder of the company resign
removes a significant hurdle in the completion of an
acquisition,” Christian Schwab, an analyst at Craig-Hallum
Capital Group Ltd., wrote in a note to clients.  Petersen will be replaced on an interim basis by Chief
Marketing Officer Alex Mei, the company said in a statement
yesterday. Mei will retain his current duties as marketing chief
and executive vice president until a permanent replacement is
chosen, it said.  OCZ shares fell 7.4 percent to $4.13 at the close in  New
York , its lowest since Dec. 15, 2010.  Supply Constraints  OCZ makes solid-state storage drives for use in personal
computers, gaming devices and mobile-phone handsets, as well as
data centers and storage-area networks.  Its patent portfolio might appeal to potential buyers, said
Alex Kurtz, an analyst with Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. Those
factors may encourage the company to sell rather than
restructure the management team, he said.  “There are some headwinds on the core business that make
hitting the restart button just incrementally more difficult,”
Kurtz said in a telephone interview.  Bonnie Mott, senior manager of  investor relations , didn’t
respond to a voice mail requesting comment that was left before
the start of regular business hours.  OCZ, which has  posted losses  in each of the last four
fiscal years, said its cash fell to $43.2 million in the quarter
that ended in May from $92.3 million in the February period. OCZ
is expected to report a profit in fiscal 2014, according to
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  