-- Office Depot Jumps After Starboard Takes 13% Stake
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-09-17T16:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/office-depot-jumps-after-starboard-takes-13-stake.html
Office Depot Inc. (ODP) , the second-
largest U.S. office-supplies chain, rose after activist investor
Starboard Value LP became its largest shareholder and started
pushing for changes to improve earnings.  The shares  jumped  7.7 percent to $2.66 at 12 p.m. in New
York and earlier rose 15 percent. The  Boca Raton , Florida-based
retailer had gained 15 percent this year through Sept. 14.  Starboard Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Smith  wrote in a
letter to Office Depot CEO Neil Austrian today that the
retailer’s “poor operating performance” has hurt the shares.
Starboard, which now owns 13 percent of the chain, said Office
Depot should move to smaller stores and reduce the number of
items it sells. The chain also should cut general expenses and
“significantly” lower advertising costs, Smith said.  The retailer, which has about 1,680 locations worldwide,
has posted four straight years of falling  sales  and a net loss
of $57.4 million last quarter. Office Depot,  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  and
 OfficeMax Inc. (OMX)  are facing more competition from online retailers
such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  while selling fewer traditional supplies
as more workers use computers, tablets and smartphones.  “Office Depot is one of the more challenged companies in a
troubled sector,” Bradley Thomas, an analyst at KeyBanc Capital
Markets Inc. in  New York , said in an interview Sept. 12.  Brian Levine, a spokesman for Office Depot, declined to
comment in an e-mail.  Store Closings  Austrian moved from board member to interim CEO and
chairman after Steve Odland resigned in October 2010. After a
search, the company made him the permanent head of the company
in May 2011. He has since been trying to cut costs and improve
 customer service . The company will announce a plan next month
that may include shrinking or closing stores as it has 500
leases up for renewal in the next three years, Kevin Peters,
North American retail president, said earlier this month.  Starboard was founded in March 2011 in a spinoff from Cowen
Group Inc.’s Ramius LLC and has more than $1 billion under
management. The New York-based firm recently fought to install
three new directors at  AOL Inc. (AOL)  and said the company was
spending too much money on failed efforts.  Today’s surge in Office Depot’s stock was the third gain
larger than 10 percent in the past nine trading days. On Sept.
5, the chain repeated its forecast for earnings before interest
and taxes of as much as $135 million. Starboard also met with
Austrian on Sept. 5, according to the letter. The stock rose 19
percent that day and climbed 21 percent on Sept. 12.  Merger Speculation  On Sept. 5, Austrian said at an investor conference hosted
by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. that there are too many office-
supply stores and it’s “pretty clear today that there’s going
to have to be consolidation at some point.”  There has been speculation that there will be a merger in
the industry since the Federal Trade Commission blocked Staples’
acquisition of Office Depot in 1997 on anti-competitive grounds,
Thomas said. The endgame for Office Depot should be some kind of
joining with OfficeMax, he said. OfficeMax is the third-largest
office-supplies chain after Staples and Office Depot.  A merger of Office Depot and OfficeMax would be
“natural,” Staples Chairman and CEO Ronald Sargent said last
year at a conference. The FTC is more likely to allow such a
combination than if Framingham, Massachusetts-based Staples were
to buy either company, he said.  “The landscape has changed dramatically since 1997, when
the FTC blocked the Staples/Office Depot merger,” Office Depot
said in a statement last year. “However, government approval is
certainly not a given.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  