-- Oil Trades Near Four-Month High on Signs of Improving Economy
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-09-17T11:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/oil-trades-near-four-month-high-on-signs-of-improving-economy.html
Oil traded near a four-month high
before reports that may show economic growth in the U.S., the
world’s biggest crude user, is gaining strength.  Futures were little changed in  New York  after surging as
high as $100.42 a barrel on Sept. 14 as the  Federal Reserve 
pledged to start buying U.S. mortgage securities in a third
round of quantitative easing. New home construction and sales of
previously owned houses rose in August, economists said before
U.S. data due Sept. 19. Current crude prices aren’t a threat to
the world economy, Mohammad Ali Khatibi,  Iran ’s governor to
OPEC, was cited as saying on the Oil Ministry’s news website.  “The recovery in the U.S. was already in progress but will
be accelerated by QE3,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior
broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London, who predicts  Brent
crude  will advance to $120 a barrel this month.  Oil for October delivery was at $98.71 a barrel, down 29
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 12:46 p.m. London time. The contract rose 0.7 percent to
close at $99 on Sept. 14, the highest since May 3. Prices are
little changed this year.  Brent for November settlement fell 41 cents to $116.24 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
front-month premium for the European benchmark contract to West
Texas Intermediate was at $17.22 a barrel, little changed from
$17.33.  Bullish Bets  Hedge funds  raised bullish bets on oil to a four-month high
before futures surged on the Fed’s plan to buy $40 billion a
month in mortgage bonds in an effort to accelerate the U.S.
recovery.  Money managers increased  net-long positions , or wagers on
rising prices, by 5 percent in the seven days ended Sept. 11,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report on Sept. 14. They were at the
highest level since the week ended May 1.  In London, hedge funds and other money managers raised
bullish bets on Brent crude to their highest in more than four
months in the week ended Sept. 11, according to  data from ICE
Futures Europe .  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 115,478 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. That’s up 5,003 from last week and the highest
since May 1, the data showed.  Housing Starts  U.S. housing starts in August increased to an annual rate
of 765,000, the fastest in almost four years, from 746,000 in
July, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
before the Commerce Department report. Existing-home purchases
advanced to a three-month high, economists said before data from
the National Association of Realtors.  “We’ve seen an ongoing and relatively positive reaction to
the Fed’s easing plan,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market
analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “That reflects the relatively
open-ended nature of the proposed easing.”  Most oil-consuming nations consider prices at $100 a barrel
to be “fair,” Khatibi said in a report published by the Shana
website yesterday. Iran, the third-largest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, is grappling with
international sanctions imposed by Western countries that allege
the nation is building nuclear weapons.  Iranian Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi said current crude
prices are low and should exceed $150 a barrel to reflect actual
market conditions, state-run Press TV reported.  Prices Climb  “In the winter,  oil prices  always climb,” he said,
according to a report late yesterday. “This year, too, it would
be natural to see oil prices rise.”  South Korea  stopped buying crude from Iran in August after
its refiners lost insurance coverage on ships carrying supplies
from the Persian Gulf nation.  The tanker Freedom, owned by Tehran-based NITC, signaled
it’s going to Ulsan in South Korea,  IHS Inc. (IHS)  ship-tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg today show. The vessel, able to carry
about 2 million barrels of crude, is scheduled to arrive Oct. 4.  Purchases fell to zero last month, reducing imports from
Iran for the first eight months of this year by 34 percent from
a year earlier to 5.39 million metric tons, according to data
posted on the Customs Service’s website Sept. 15. South Korea
bought 1.14 million tons of crude oil, or about 270,000 barrels
a day, in August 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  