-- Oil Gains on Speculation Biggest Drop Since July Was Exaggerated
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-09-18T04:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/oil-trades-near-one-week-low-on-forecast-crude-supplies-gained.html
Oil rose from the lowest close in a
week in  New York  as investors speculated that the biggest drop
in two months was exaggerated.  Futures advanced as much as 0.6 percent after slipping 2.4
percent yesterday, the most since July 23. Prices tumbled more
than $3 in less than a minute as October options were about to
expire, extending earlier declines after the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York’s general economic index, known as the Empire
State Index, fell to a three-year low. An Energy Department
report tomorrow may show crude stockpiles rose a second week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  “The market has said the aggressive fall was ridiculous,”
said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer of Barratt’s
Bulletin, a commodity newsletter in Sydney. “We’re all thinking
that perhaps it was a fat finger by someone, and down it
tumbles. The realistic level should be a little bit higher.”  Oil for October delivery gained as much as 61 cents to
$97.23 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $96.93 at 12:28 p.m. Sydney time. The
contract slid $2.38 yesterday to $96.62, the lowest close since
Sept. 10. Prices are 1.9 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for November settlement rose 31 cents to $114.10
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It
dropped 2.5 percent yesterday. The front-month European
benchmark grade’s premium to the corresponding West Texas
Intermediate contract was at $16.86, down from $16.84 yesterday.  Crude Stockpiles  CME Group Inc. suffered from no technical issues as crude
oil, gasoline and heating oil dropped on Nymex, said Chris Grams, a spokesman for CME.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  dropped to minus 10.41, the lowest level since April 2009,
from minus 5.85 in August. The median forecast of 53 economists
in a Bloomberg survey called for minus 2. Readings less than
zero signal contraction for the area of New York, northern  New
Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  U.S. crude inventories probably climbed  1 million barrels 
last week, according to the median estimate of seven analysts in
the Bloomberg survey before the Energy Department report.
Gasoline  supplies  probably rose by 1.5 million barrels, the
first gain in eight weeks, according to the survey.  Inventories of distillate fuel, a category that includes
diesel and heating oil, probably rose for a sixth week, gaining
1 million barrels, the survey showed.  Retail Gasoline  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
stockpile data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Retail gasoline prices climbed above year-earlier levels
for the sixth consecutive week, tracking oil futures that rose
above $100 a barrel on Sept. 14 for the first time since May.  The  national average  for regular gasoline climbed 3.1
cents, or 0.8 percent, to $3.878 a gallon from a week earlier,
the U.S. Energy Information Administration said in a report
posted on its website yesterday. Prices are up 7.7 percent from
$3.601 in 2011 and at a record high for this time of year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  