-- Honda Makes Accords at Record Pace Amid Midsize Car Fight
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-09-17T21:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/honda-makes-accords-at-record-pace-amid-midsize-car-fight.html
Honda Motor Co. is building the new
Accord sedan at a record rate so dealers can begin sales this
week as U.S. competition with midsize cars from  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , Nissan Motor Co. and  Ford (F)  Motor Co. intensifies.  Production of the 2013 Accord was at 6,000 units a week and
rising at Honda’s Marysville, Ohio, plant as of Sept. 14, Mike
Fischer, production leader for the car, said in an interview. No
new Honda model has been built at a faster pace and with fewer
flaws, he said.  “We’re at a benchmark pace,” said Fischer, an associate
chief engineer for Tokyo-based Honda, without elaborating.
“Typically, some of our initial indicators for a production
ramp-up are set for a three-month level. We’ve challenged
ourselves to meet that in one month.”  The ninth-generation Accord begins selling Sept. 19 as
Nissan boosts output of a revamped Altima, Toyota expands
deliveries of the Camry and Ford readies a restyled Fusion.
Midsize cars are the biggest sales segment in the U.S. this
year, up 22 percent through August to 2.52 million and outpacing
the 15 percent increase for all cars and light trucks, according
to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata Corp.  Camry, redesigned in 2011, remains the best-selling U.S.
car, up 37 percent this year to 280,536. The 2012 Accord follows
with sales of 218,665, ahead of Altima at 209,592 and Fusion at
181,865.  “Midsize sedans are where everyone is putting their
resources right now,” said  Michael Robinet , managing director
for industry consultant IHS Automotive based in Northville,
 Michigan . “It’s a knockdown, drag-out battle in that segment.”  Production Pace  Output of LX, Sport and EX grades of Honda’s flagship sedan
with four- and six-cylinder engines will grow throughout the
year at the Ohio plant, Fischer said. Production of the 2013
sedan began Aug. 20 and a redesigned Accord coupe will also be
made in Marysville starting next month. The plant has produced
Accords since 1982.  “We’ll be continuing to ramp our production to what that
actual peak market condition will be,” Fischer said, without
elaborating.  Nissan has raised output of 2013 Altimas at plants in
Tennessee and  Mississippi  since May and will further accelerate
the pace when both factories build it on three-shift schedules
later this year, said  Katherine Zachary , a company spokeswoman.
As much as 90 percent of Altima sales this month will be of the
new car as dealers sell out of 2012 models, she said.  Honda’s goal is to sell 350,000 of its new Accords annually
in the U.S. Nissan hasn’t set a similar target for Altima. The
automaker can build about 300,000 annually and as many as
400,000 by 2013 should demand reach that level,  Bill Krueger ,
Nissan’s vice chairman of the Americas, said in May.  Ford’s Fusion  Ford is beginning to make 2013 Fusions at a factory in
 Mexico  and starts advertising the car in October. The model will
also be built at Ford’s Flat Rock, Michigan, plant in 2013,
where the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker is to add a second
shift of 1,200 workers,  Mark Fields , the company’s president of
the Americas, said Sept. 10.  Honda’s North American plants rank among the industry’s
best, based on J.D. Power & Associates’ annual initial quality
survey. The company made the new Accord easier to build, in
addition to a new look, engine and technical features.  Assembly process enhancements include a new sound damping
material that’s sprayed on rather than applied as a sheet; a new
one-piece dashboard that eliminates squeaks and rattles and is
faster to install; and a new stamping press that shapes body
panels more rapidly, all to accelerate production, Fischer said.  “We understand this car is the halo vehicle for the
company,” he said. “This car is one of those benchmark
products that we expect to do extremely well in the market.”  Honda’s  American depositary receipts  fell 2.3 percent to
$33.90 yesterday in  New York . They have gained 11 percent this
year. The company’s U.S. operations are based in Torrance,
 California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  