-- Most Hong Kong Stocks Fall on China Economic Outlook
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-09-17T09:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/hong-kong-stocks-rise-extending-gains-on-fed-stimulus-measures.html
Most  Hong Kong   stocks  fell after
Citigroup Inc. cut its forecast for economic growth in  China 
next year, overshadowing optimism that stimulus measures by the
 Federal Reserve  will boost U.S. demand for Asian exports.  China Resources Land Ltd. (1109) , a state-controlled developer,
slid 3.4 percent amid concern China will refrain from easing
measures to prevent inflation.  Guangzhou Automobile (2238)  Group Co., a
Chinese partner of Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co., fell
4.6 percent amid escalating anti-Japan protests in China.  Hong
Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) , the world’s second-largest
bourse operator by market value, rose 2.5 percent after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. raised its rating on the stock.  About 10 stocks fell for every seven that gained on the
Hang Seng Composite Index. The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 0.1
percent to 20,658.11 at the close, after swinging between gains
and losses at least 15 times.The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index of mainland companies, also known as the H-share index,
declined 0.5 percent to 9,780.92.  The Fed’s stimulus measures were “discounted a lot on
Friday, so you can’t expect the market to continue to go much
higher because there is some profit taking,” said  Alex Wong ,
asset-management director at Ample Asset Management Ltd. in Hong
Kong. Markets around the world rallied last week on the Fed’s
plan to buy mortgage securities to boost growth in the world’s
biggest economy, known as a third round of quantitative easing.  China Easing  Volume on the Hang Seng Index was 7.6 percent above its 30-
day average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The overall sentiment remains positive in the meantime,”
Wong said. “People are not very bullish on China because the
operating environment for many enterprises isn’t very good. The
QE3 would reduce the chance for China easing because of
inflation worries.”  The Hang Seng Index  traded  at 10.9 times estimated earnings
on average on Sept. 14, compared with 9.7 for the Shanghai
Composite Index and 14.1 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPXL1) 
The Hong Kong gauge climbed 13 percent from this year’s low on
June 4 through Sept. 14 as central banks announced more measures
to stimulate global economic growth.  Citigroup cut China’s 2013 growth forecast to 7.6 percent
from 8 percent on weakening external demand. Separately, China
needs to be more cautious with its monetary policies as
quantitative easing in the U.S. will create more pressure to
control inflation, the official Xinhua  News Agency  reported,
citing Lu Zhengwei, chief economist at Industrial Bank Co.  Japan Dispute  A measure of property developers was the  only decline  among
the Hang Seng Index’s four industry groups. China Resources Land
slumped 3.4 percent to HK$17, while  Shimao Property Holdings
Ltd. (813) , a developer that gets all its revenue from China,
retreated 2.4 percent to HK$13.12.  China’s home sales declined 4.7 percent in the week ended
Sept. 14 in the 58 cities tracked by CEBM Group, a Shanghai-
based investment advisory co. That was compared with the
previous week.  Guangzhou Automobile fell 4.6 percent to HK$5.46 on concern
the carmaker will suffer as China boycotts Japanese cars. A
joint venture with Toyota and Honda accounts for the majority of
 Guangzhou Auto ’s total sales, Liang Yonghuo, an analyst at
Haitong International Securities Group Ltd., wrote in a note.  Tensions between China and Japan escalated over the weekend
after Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s government said
last week it would purchase disputed islands from their private
Japanese owner, prompting China to dispatch government vessels
near the islands.  Among stocks that rose, Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing
gained 2.5 percent to HK$120.90. JPMorgan raised its rating on
the stock to overweight from neutral on expectations of recent
volume momentum. The company has risen 19 percent through the
last seven days.  The stock surged on Sept. 14 amid optimism that increased
liquidity will boost trades on the exchange, particularly after
the Fed’s stimulus plan, Alexander Lee, an analyst at DBS
Vickers Hong Kong Ltd., said last week.  Metals Rise  Metal producers advanced. Aluminum producer United Co.
Rusal gained 2 percent to HK$4.67, while  Mongolian Mining Corp. (975) 
jumped 3.1 percent to HK$3.61. The London Metal Exchange Index
of prices for six industrial commodities including copper and
aluminum surged 4.3 percent on Sept. 14.  Cnooc Ltd., China’s largest offshore energy explorer,
gained 3.7 percent to HK$16.24 and China Oilfield Services Ltd.
rose 1.8 percent to HK$13.50 after oil for October delivery rose
0.7 percent in  New York  on Sept. 14.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent
today. The benchmark for U.S. equities ended last week at the
highest level since December 2007 after the  Federal Open Market
Committee  committed to buying bonds until the U.S. labor market
recovers “substantially.” The central bank said it will expand
its holdings of long-term securities with open-ended purchases
of $40 billion of mortgage debt a month.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index rose 0.3 percent to 20,714
today. The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  dropped 3.9 percent to 17.80,
indicating traders expect a swing of 5.1 percent for the equity
benchmark in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  